abidjan ( reuters ) - europe and africa have joint responsibility for making migration more humane and orderly so they can end horrifying abuses being committed against african migrants by people smugglers , european council president donald tusk said on wednesday .
he was speaking at a two-day africa-european union summit that was meant to focus on development and investment in youth , but had inevitably been overshadowed by the migrant crisis .
reports this month of white libyan slave traders selling black african migrants at markets in libya - a grim echo of the trans-saharan slave trade in centuries past - have drawn worldwide horror .
the outcry threatened to put migration to the top of the summit agenda and shine a light on a thorny issue for european leaders faced with a surge in far-right , anti-immigration parties at home .
it is clear that migration is a joint responsibility .
it is in all our interests to have orderly migration that is more controlled , more humane and sustainable , tusk said in his opening remarks .
the recent reports about the treatment of africans - especially young people - by smugglers and traffickers are horrifying , he said , adding that 5,000 migrants had drowned in the mediterranean last year .
soon after cnn aired grainy images from libya this month appearing to show migrants being sold as slaves , african governments began recalling diplomats from tripoli .
protests erupted in france , senegal and benin .
ivory coast president alassane ouattara called for libyan slave traders to be prosecuted by the international criminal court .
let s work together to bring more humane solutions to this migration crisis that taints relations between the north and the south , said guinea s president , alpha conde , the chairman of the african union .
libya has promised to investigate the reports , but many african citizens also blame european policies for abuses along the migrant trail .
the worst we can do is to start the blame game .
what we need now are common solutions and stronger cooperation to save lives , protect people , tusk said .
our common duty is to step up the fight against these unscrupulous criminals .
but european leaders - including german chancellor angela merkel and french president emmanuel macron , who head the franco-german axis at the heart of the eu - are hamstrung by electorates that are increasingly anti-immigration .
despite pressure at home , merkel on wednesday highlighted the need to create legal avenues for migration .
however , gunter nooke , her special envoy for africa , later told reuters that alone would not solve the problem .
there we talk about thousands , tens of thousands .
but with ( illegal ) migration we talk about millions .
he added that no country is going to allow hundreds of thousands of students in from developing nations unless they can be sure most will go back within four years , which he said rarely happened .
in a joint statement , the united nations , african union and european union announced the creation of a joint task force to save and protect lives of migrants and refugees along the routes and in particular inside libya , and to speed up returning migrants to countries of origin .
european and african leaders met late on wednesday to discuss the reports of slavery in libya and the migrant crisis .
we must not only denounce it , we must act , by collectively attacking these smuggling networks , macron , who has called the abuses in libya a crime against humanity , said at the meeting .
we are going to ... to carry out targeted sanctions .