kabul ( reuters ) - u.s. and afghan forces have launched joint attacks on taliban opium factories to try to curb the insurgent group s economic lifeline , officials from both countries said on monday .
u.s. army general john nicholson showed videos at a press conference of targeted aerial strikes against what he described as taliban drug factories .
last night we conducted strikes in northern helmand to hit the taliban where it hurts , in their narcotics financing , said nicholson , flanked by afghan army lieutenant general mohammad sharif yaftali .
the southern province of helmand suffers heavy fighting and is the single-largest producer of opium .
opium production in afghanistan reached record highs this year , up 87 percent on last year , the united nations said last week .
the u.n. office on drugs and crime ( unodc ) said output of opium made from poppy seeds in afghanistan , the world s main source of heroin , stands at around 9,000 metric tons this year .
unodc has warned in the past that kabul s weakening grip on security was contributing to a collapse in eradication efforts .
nearly half of afghan opium is processed , or refined into morphine or heroin , before it is trafficked out of the country , according to u.s. and afghan officials .
we re determined to tackle criminal economy and narcotics trafficking with full force , said afghan president ashraf ghani on twitter .
nicholson said the attacks were part of u.s. president donald trump s new policy toward afghanistan as he boosts troop numbers .
the four-star general showed one video of an f-22 fighter jet dropping 250-pound bombs on two buildings , emphasizing that a nearby third building was left unscathed .
u.s. troops have long been accused of causing unnecessary collateral damage and civilian deaths .
the united states says it takes every precaution to avoid civilian casualties .
the united nations said at least 10 civilians may have been killed by a strike in kunduz earlier this month , contradicting a u.s. investigation that found no civilian deaths .