london ( reuters ) - british defense minister michael fallon quit on wednesday , the first resignation in a growing sexual harassment scandal that prompted calls for a wholesale change in the locker room culture in parliament .
members of prime minister theresa may s conservative party said the first high-profile resignation in the scandal showed it was time for reform at the 800-year-old parliament , where power is concentrated in lawmakers hands and wielded , often unchecked , over junior aides .
the loss of fallon , described by conservative sources as a political rottweiler , leaves may with a hole in her cabinet , already at odds on everything from britain s departure from the european union to the government s austerity agenda .
weakened after losing her party s majority in a june election , may will want to move swiftly to appoint a replacement with as little disruption as possible .
in his letter of resignation to may , fallon , who had apologized earlier this week for repeatedly touching a radio presenter s knee in 2002 , said there had been many allegations about lawmakers , including some about my previous conduct .
many of these have been false but i accept that in the past i have fallen below the high standards that we require of the armed forces that i have the honor to represent , he said , offering no detail on the nature of any other allegations .
i have reflected on my position and i am therefore resigning as defense secretary .
may replied in a letter saying she appreciated the characteristically serious manner in which fallon had considered his position and the particular example you wish to set to servicemen and women and others .
the prime minister was expected to announce a new defense minister on thursday and is unlikely to launch a major reshuffle of her cabinet at a time when she is trying to push forward brexit talks .
dependent on the support of a small northern irish party for a majority in parliament , may will be keen to try to limit the fallout of the scandal , which has prompted allegations of sexual abuse or misconduct against lawmakers across parliament .
sexual abuse allegations against hollywood producer harvey weinstein have prompted hundreds of thousands of women and men to share stories about improper behavior and britain s parliament - a bastion of tradition - has been no exception .
ruth davidson , leader of the conservatives in scotland , said it was time to break with a culture in politics when powerful people use positions of power to demand things from others .
the dam has broken on this now , and these male-dominated professions where the boys-own locker room culture has prevailed and it s all been a bit of a laugh , has got to stop , she told the bbc .
allegations of sexual abuse have ranged from a charge of rape by an activist in the opposition labour party by a senior party member , to unconfirmed details of serial sex pests on a list reportedly drafted by aides and researchers in parliament .
on monday , may sat beside the leader of the house of commons andrea leadsom as she set out the government s plans to tackle sexual harassment , including measures to enforce a code of conduct and to set up an independent grievance procedure .
may has ordered investigations into a report that one of her ministers asked a female secretary to buy sex toys and an allegation her deputy , damian green , made an inappropriate sexual advance on a young woman - something he denies .
the prime minister , who has long championed the careers of female lawmakers , said on wednesday that action would be taken when there were allegations and evidence of sexual misconduct .
i am very clear that we will take action against those where there are allegations that we see , and the evidence is there , that there has been misconduct , may told lawmakers .