brussels ( reuters ) - rivals from the two sides of the european union s migration dispute will meet in brussels on thursday in a goodwill gesture just as the bloc reopens a bitter feud over hosting refugees .
prime minister paolo gentiloni of italy , which has at times been overwhelmed with mass arrivals of african refugees and migrants , will talk to the leaders of poland , hungary , the czech republic and slovakia in brussels before all 28 eu leaders discuss migration over dinner .
the four eastern eu states have persistently refused to accept asylum-seekers to ease the burden on italy and greece , the other sea gateway to europe , even at the height of arrivals in 2015 when more than a million people reached the bloc .
since then on , italy , germany and other wealthy destination countries have called for an obligatory system of moving some of those arriving to other eu states when immigration spikes .
they see it as a matter of european solidarity , which also manifests itself in the generous handouts the richer west provides .
but the easterners flatly reject any mandatory quotas on accepting people from the mainly-muslim middle east and africa , saying that risks compromising their security after a raft of islamist attacks in europe since late 2015 .
instead , on thursday the four will offer gentiloni some 35 million euros ( $ 41 mln ) for eu-backed projects rome has been leading in libya to prevent people from trekking north to europe .
but internally , the eu has been unable to agree on relocation , something one senior eu diplomat likened to fighting trench warfare that has badly undermined member states trust in each other .
right before the eu leaders summit in brussels this thursday and friday , their chairman , donald tusk , reignited the dispute by coming out out strongly against divisive and ineffective obligatory quotas .
an eu scheme agreed for two years in 2015 - despite opposition by slovakia , hungary , romania and the czech republic - to relocate 160,000 people has only seen some 32,000 transfers from italy and greece .
in an unusually public row between the eu s brussels institutions , the bloc s executive arm , which has been a strong proponent of a mandatory and automated relocation , lashed out at tusk .
the executive european commission s migration chief , dimitris avramopoulos , called tusk s intervention unacceptable and anti-european .
the disagreement between tusk and the commission translates into divisions between member states , casting doubt on whether they will be able to reach an agreement by their june target date .
another senior eu diplomat had only modest expectations of the leaders migration discussion on thursday evening , meaning they were not expected to take any decisions but , at best , make a small step towards unlocking a future agreement .