beijing ( reuters ) - global automakers reported a surge in china sales last year as consumers rushed to take advantage of a tax cut on small-engine cars , but cautioned 2017 would be tougher for the industry as the incentive is rolled back and the broader economy slows .
toyota motor corp , ford motor co and nissan motor co ltd on friday each reported sales growth of 8 percent or better for 2016 , although honda motor co ltd led the pack with a 24 percent growth .
toyota , which reported an 8.2 percent rise in china sales last year , sees growth slowing in 2017 as slightly higher taxes keep some buyers away from the world ’ s biggest auto market .
it expects to sell at least 1.2 million vehicles , steady from 2016 .
“ we are not being strictly volume focused .
we would like to do so ( increase volumes ) while boosting car quality and keep our customer base satisfied with our products and service , ” a beijing-based toyota spokesman told reuters .
while honda expects to sell more vehicles in china this year , it forecast a significantly slower growth rate of 7.4 percent , roughly in line with a slowing economy .
demand for cars in china got a shot in the arm in 2016 ahead of a planned expiry of lower taxes at year-end .
sales will come under pressure this year , but not fall sharply , given a decision to slowly roll back the incentive instead of abruptly ending it .
the purchase tax on cars with engines of 1.6 litres or smaller in china , at 5 percent now , will rise to 7.5 percent this year before returning to 10 percent in 2018 .
overall passenger car sales in china could have dropped 2 percent this year had the tax cut expired on dec. 31 , but are now expected to grow by 3-5 percent , consultancy automotive foresight said .
analysts , however , cautioned that car sales could fall in the first quarter as consumers fearing the policy would end in 2016 moved ahead their purchases instead of waiting until 2017 .
“ in late 2016 we definitely saw pull forward effects in engines below 1.6 liter .
this will effect the q1 negatively , ” a sales executive at a major foreign automaker told reuters .
honda posted the biggest growth in china sales last year among automakers reporting friday , powered by a steady stream of new models , mainly in the hot sport-utility vehicle segment .
vehicle sales by honda rose to 1.25 million in 2016 , while ford reported a growth of 11.9 percent to 1.24 million vehicles .
but with premium lincoln brand car sales , which are not consistently included in monthly data releases , ford ’ s sales totaled 1.27 million , giving it an edge over toyota and honda .
all three , however , continued to lag nissan motor co ltd in china sales .
nissan ’ s sales grew 8.4 percent to 1.35 million vehicles in the country last year .
general motors co and volkswagen continue to be the market leaders in china .
on thursday , gm and its joint venture partners reported sales of 3.87 million vehicles in china for 2016 , up 7.1 percent .
the full-year figures come in spite of sales slipping for several brands in the final month , with gm , honda and toyota all reporting a year-on-year drop for december with news china was not completely ending its tax incentive making its impact felt .