21st century wire says facebook is partnering with snopes.com and other sites which have apparently been unofficially deemed the new ministries of truth to decide what is and what is not fake news .
do we trust these agencies more than we trust the intelligence of 21wire facebook followers to discern , on their own , what is fake news and what is credible absolutely not.you decide : is facebook really cracking down on fake news or is it making it easier for the establishment to burry stories from one of the most widely used sources of news link sharing on the internet ?
alex heath business insiderfacebook is going to start fact checking , labeling , and burying fake news and hoaxes in the news feed , the company announced on thursday.the decision comes after facebook received heated criticism for its role in spreading a deluge of political misinformation during the u.s. presidential election , like one story that falsely said the pope had endorsed donald trump.to combat fake news , facebook has partnered with a shortlist of media organizations , including snopes and abc news , that are part of an international fact-checking network led by poynter , a nonprofit school for journalism located in st. petersburg , florida.starting as a test with a small percentage of its users in the united states , facebook will make it easier to report news stories that are fake or misleading .
once third-party fact checkers have confirmed that the story is fake , it will be labeled as such and demoted in the news feed.a company spokesperson told business insider that the social network will also use other signals , like algorithms that detect whether a story that appears fake is going viral , to determine if it should label the story as fake and bury it in peoples feeds .
we ve focused our efforts on the worst of the worst , on the clear hoaxes spread by spammers for their own gain , and on engaging both our community and third party organizations , facebook news feed chief adam mosseri said in a company blog post on thursday.a team of facebook researchers will also review website domains and send sites that appear to be fake or spoofed ( like washingtonpost.co ) to third-party fact checkers , a facebook spokesperson said .
of the 42 news organizations that have committed to poynter s fact-checking code of ethics , facebook is starting out with the following four snopes , factcheck.org , abc news , and politifact .
we are only involved to the extent that facebook relies on the list of signatories to our code of principles as a starting point for the organizations it chooses to verify , a poynter spokesperson told business insider .
facebook is the only organization certifying third party fact-checkers on its platform .
facebook has given its four initial fact-checking partners access to a tool that will let them label stories in the news feed as fake , a facebook spokesperson said .
the spokesperson said that facebook is not paying the organizations to fact check continue the story at business insiderread more msm lies at : 21st century wire msm watch files