vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis appeared to harden the catholic church s teaching against nuclear weapons on friday , saying countries should not stockpile them even for the purpose of deterrence .
his remarks , at the start of a disarmament conference that brought 11 nobel peace prize winners to the vatican , appeared to go further than previous popes .
they have said that while nuclear weapons should never be used , holding arsenals solely to deter other countries from using them could be morally acceptable as a step toward achieving a nuclear-free world .
addressing the group in the 16th century frescoed clementine hall of the vatican s apostolic palace , francis spoke of the catastrophic humanitarian and environmental effects of any employment of nuclear devices .
he added : if we also take into account the risk of an accidental detonation as a result of error of any kind , the threat of their use , as well as their very possession , is to be firmly condemned .
as tensions between the united states and north korea have increased , the pope has often warned that a nuclear conflict would destroy a good part of humanity and called for a third country to mediate the dispute .
in his address , francis did not directly mention the north korea tension , but spoke in general of a climate of instability and conflict and a mentality of fear in the world today .
international relations can not be held captive to military force , mutual intimidation , and the parading of stockpiles of arms , he said .
he also said international laws against proliferation of nuclear weapons had not kept new states from acquiring them .
money used to develop or modernize weapons should instead be spent on helping the poor and protecting the environment .
douglas roche , canada s former ambassador for disarmament and a former senator , told the conference the pope s remarks against possession of nuclear weapons were historic and asked national conferences of catholic bishops to work to make it known .
another participant suggested the pope should write an encyclical letter addressed to all catholics on the moral imperative to ban nuclear weapons .
among those who met the pope were beatrice fihn , executive director of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) and mohamed el baradei , director general emeritus of the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) .
fihn , whose group won the nobel this year , told reuters she asked the pope to lead all 1.2 billion catholics around the world in prayer for an end to the threat of nuclear weapons on sunday , december 10 , when her group is due to collect the prize .
tensions are really high and the risks for nuclear weapons use is higher than at the height of the cold war , the cuban missile crisis .
i think that s really serious and we need to urgently do something about this , she said .
el baradei , who won the peace prize in 2015 , was asked how he would respond to u.s. president donald trump s threat to use unprecedented fire and fury against north korea if it threatened the united states .
i go to pray , he said .