washington ( reuters ) - only a small number of u.s. tax , finance and business professionals expect president donald trump ’ s 15-percent corporate tax rate to become reality as part of tax reform , according to a deloitte tax llp survey released on tuesday .
the poll of more than 3,100 people offered a glimpse of private-sector expectations about tax reform that are less optimistic than public statements from trump administration officials and lawmakers .
trump and his fellow republicans are pushing to get the corporate income tax rate down from 35 percent to 15-20 percent , saying that doing so would drive u.s. economic growth and competitiveness in coming years .
just under half of the poll ’ s participants viewed a lower corporate rate as being the main economic driver of tax reform , but nearly 40 percent predicted the rate would end up at 25 percent , due to the political and budgetary challenges facing tax reform .
thirty-one percent of those surveyed by the professional services firm during a july 18 deloitte webcast expected a corporate tax rate of 20 percent .
only 5.3 percent believed trump ’ s 15 percent rate would become law .
republicans have pledged to enact the most sweeping tax overhaul since the reagan era before year-end .
an ambitious white house timeline calls for legislation to be unveiled in september and voted on in the house of representatives and senate before the end of november .
still , about 74 percent of those surveyed were doubtful or not at all confident that a comprehensive tax reform bill would be enacted in 2017 .
less than 19 percent were confident or somewhat confident that it would happen this year .
more than 63 percent believed compromise to be the necessary ingredient for congress to succeed at tax reform , a quality that has proved elusive for republican lawmakers so far this year .
trump ’ s leadership , public support and a sense of economic crisis were seen as essential by less than 10 percent of participants respectively .
in terms of growth , about 16 percent identified tax code simplification as the feature most likely to boost the economy .
international tax reform and accelerated expensing of manufacturing equipment each drew support in the single digits .