nairobi/abidjan ( reuters ) - u.s. special forces soldiers were with their counterparts from niger on wednesday in the west african nation s volatile southwest , a growing hot-bed of jihadist violence , when the report came in of a raid nearby .
the assailants were believed to be led by dondou chefou , a lieutenant in a new group operating along the mali-niger border and called islamic state in the greater sahara .
a decision was soon taken to pursue them .
the mixed force was ambushed by fighters on dozens of vehicles and motorcycles .
under heavy fire , u.s. troops called in french fighter jets for air support , but the firefight was at such close quarters that the planes could not engage and were instead left circling overhead as a deterrant .
the version of events , as told by two nigerien and two western sources briefed on the incident , shines a light on washington s increasingly aggressive special forces-led counter-terrorism strategy in africa and its risk of casualties .
four u.s. soldiers died in the firefight , killed in a country where most americans were unaware that their army is deployed but where washington has steadily grown its presence .
one soldier s body was only recovered two days later .
at least four nigeriens were also killed and , according to one niger security source , militants seized four vehicles in the ambush .
french helicopters , scrambled after the u.s. call for help , evacuated several soldiers wounded in the clash .
a diplomat with knowledge of the incident said french officials were frustrated by the u.s. troops actions , saying they had acted on only limited intelligence and without contingency plans in place .
after initially offering only scant details of what happened in the nigerien desert on wednesday , the u.s. military s africa command said on friday the soldiers were in the area to establish relations with local leaders .
it was not meant to be an engagement with the enemy , africom spokesman colonel mark cheadle told reporters .
the threats at the time were deemed to be unlikely , so there was no overhead armed air cover during the engagement .
u.s. forces do not have a direct combat mission in niger , but their assistance to its army does include intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance in their efforts to target violent extremist organizations .
u.s. military deployments are on the rise in africa .
in may , a u.s. navy seal killed in a raid on an al shabaab militant compound in somalia became the first u.s. combat death in africa since the 1993 black hawk down disaster in mogadishu .
in niger , washington has deployed around 800 soldiers , runs a drone base in the capital niamey , and is building a second in agadez at a cost of around $ 100 million .
u.s. special forces help local troops develop counter-terrorism skills to tackle threats from al qaeda-linked groups , nigeria s boko haram and islamists who have pledged allegiance to islamic state .
it s a pretty broad mission with the government of niger in order to increase their capability to stand alone and to prosecute violent extremists , the u.s. military s joint staff director , lieutenant general kenneth mckenzie , said on thursday .
washington has long seen the sahel as a security threat but involvement increased in the wake of a 2012 occupation of northern mali by islamist militants .
france led an offensive against the islamists a year later , and the u.s. government now provides logistical and intelligence support to a 4,000-troop french counter-terrorism operation in the region .
the u.s. military organizes an annual , high-profile u.s. drill as well as longer-term , more discreet training of regional forces .
but experts say u.s. involvement in the fight does not stop there .
it is likely that there are other operations going on aside from just the training operations , said andrew lebovich , a visiting fellow at the european council on foreign relations .
in missions run out of a base in the northern niger town of arlit and others like the one that led to the ambush of u.s. troops , sources say they have helped local troops and intelligence agents make several arrests .
it is discreet but they are there , a nigerien security source told reuters .
analysts are awaiting the political fallout of wednesday s ambush with some speculating it may spark a reversal of the u.s. stance on a new regional force - known as the g5 sahel - which france is pushing but which washington is cool on .
others however like ahmedou ould abdallah , a former top united nations official in west africa and somalia , recall with concern the american pullout following the black hawk down incident .
eighteen u.s. soldiers were killed when somali militia shot down two helicopters in mogadishu .
in somalia , they over-reacted and withdrew their troops ... my worry is that after this attack they will also over-react .
trump might just say why should we die for this ?
i hope they don t .