nothing ever is as it appears .
there is usually more to the story than one side .
of course , the media isn t interested in the cops side of the story , because it won t help the left and their war on cops .
there is more than one tragedy in this story , and that is the tragedy of reynold s 4 year old girl .
what this little girl has had to endure with a mother who openly used drugs in front of her and videotaped her crotch and various other body parts while listening to explicit music ( see video below ) is beyond the pale .
we aren t saying the cop in this case is innocent or guilty .
we ll do what most americans should do in any criminal case we ll wait for all of the facts to come out before we make any judgements .
the question is , is it possible for the black lives matter rioters to take a deep breath until the truth is discovered in this case , or is there some sense of urgency to punish/kill cops and police forces across the country before this case ever goes to court ?
the falcon heights , minnesota police shooting of philando castile is based around an entirely false narrative .
castile and ms. diamond reynolds ( facebook video uploader ) were pulled over by police because castile matched a bolo alert for an armed robbery suspect from four days prior.in addition , mr. castile also matched the physical description of the suspect as given by eye witnesses : unfortunately , the false statements in the video which have gone viral , and are being pushed by the mainstream media have created a backlash against police officers.police officers in : dallas ( link ) , tennessee ( link ) , missouri ( link ) and georgia ( link ) have been shot or killed in the past 24 hours as a result of a false narrative driven by the black lives matter movement .
it is important to get the truth out quickly.saint anthony , mn , police officers jeronimo yanez and joseph kauser pulled over mr. castile and ms. reynolds because the driver , philando castile , matched the suspect profile in an armed robbery which occurred on july 2nd , at a convenience store , only a few blocks from where their car was pulled over.the armed robbery occurred on july 2nd 7:30pm ( sat ) .
the cctv images were given to media and leo by detectives on july 5th ( tuesday ) .
a bolo ( be on look out ) alert was issued the same day , tuesday july 5th .
philando castile was pulled over on july 6th.from the radio dispatch of officer jeronimo yanez : i m going to stop a car .
i m going to check ids .
i have reason to pull it over .
the two occupants just look like people that were involved in a robbery .
the driver looks more like one of our suspects , just cause of the wide set nose .
a minute and a half later , the recording captures the first report that there was a shooting .
( link ) ms. diamond reynolds narrates the now viral facebook video with several false statements.reynolds claimed they were pulled over for a broken tail light , false.ms .
reynolds also claims her boyfriend , castile , was holding a concealed carry permit for a firearm that was resting on his left thigh .
this also appears to be false.according to a question presented to the local county sheriff who oversees the concealed carry permit process , mr. castile had never requested a concealed carry permit from their office : it is possible a ccp was obtained in another county , however the media are conflating permit to purchase with concealed carry permit .
for some reason the ccp ownership is being amplified ; it really has no bearing and is largely irrelevant for the context of the situation .
that said , there is no factual evidence mr. philando castile had a ccp.due to the rear facing camera option on the phone ms. reynolds was using , the uploaded video everyone has seen is a reversed mirror image making it appear she was in the drivers side , and castile was on the passenger side .
however , that impression is incorrect , castile was driving the vehicle .
the uploaded image is reversed by facebook livestream video.however , correcting the mirror image , in part of the video it is possible to see a hand gun located on the thigh of philando castile .
this also appears to be why officer yanez repeats to ms. reynolds not to reach toward her boyfriend : this hand gun also appears to be the same type of hand gun used in the convenience store armed robbery four days earlier ( 7/2/16 ) in addition , mr. castile also matched the physical description of the suspect as given by eye witnesses : [ ] the other suspect was described as a black man with shoulder-length dreadlocks , who wore tan pants , tan shoes with white soles , a green jacket , a green baseball cap and glasses , the release says .
he also had some of his hair pulled into a bun through the strap on the back of his hat and had a small mustache and facial hair on his chin .
( link ) similar clothes as noted on the robbery suspect are also noted in the facebook images of mr. castile .
however , whether mr. castile is actually the person who committed the armed robbery is -again- essentially a moot point .
officer geronimo yanez gave the reason for the stop over the radio to his dispatcher as a possible id on an armed robbery suspect via : conservative treehousedennis michael lynch from what we can see in the video , castile is hunched over in the passenger seat of a car driven by castile s girlfriend , diamond reynolds .
his shirt is blood soaked and he is barely alive .
reynolds talks to her facebook live audience as a cop is outside the car calling for backup , and her young daughter sits in the back seat.here is the video of the shooting .
* * * warning * * * this video is very graphic and disturbing : in the video , reynolds claims castile did nothing wrong .
she says the police officer asked for castile s license , and that castile told the officer he was legally carrying a firearm before he reached for his identification .
according to reynolds , it was when castile reached for his license that the cop shot him in the arm four times .
after reynolds makes her claim , she points the camera at the police officer who is standing outside the passenger window with his gun pointed at a wounded castile .
the police officer counters reynolds claim by stating he told castile not to reach for his gun.because the video was captured after the shooting , it all comes down to reynolds word versus the word of the police officer .
but can we take reynolds word as being credible ? this uncovered , disturbing video shows castile and reynolds in car with reynolds young daughter in the back seat only days before confrontation with police : three days before his death , castile took part in another one of reynolds facebook live videos .
in this video diamond reynolds sits in the driver s seat and films herself smoking pot .
at one point she passes the joint to castile .
this all takes place while reynolds daughter watches from the back seat.in addition to showcasing her own drug use , the majority of the video is reynolds filming her body parts for the world to see , including her breasts and crotch .
castile just sits back and says nothing while reynolds makes her video .
meanwhile , reynolds daughter is in the background watching her mother .
she appears disturbed by the situation and asks her mother if they can leave to watch fireworks .