washington ( reuters ) - while u.s. president donald trump ’ s budget proposal for national defense increases spending , it falls short of campaign promises to rebuild the navy and a “ historic ” increase in military spending .
the budget proposes a modest increase in military spending .
trump is seeking a $ 52 billion hike for the pentagon as part of an overall defense spending increase of $ 54 billion .
that is almost 10 percent higher than current budget caps , but only 3 percent more than what former president barack obama had sought in his long-term budget plan .
the $ 603 billion includes funding for nuclear weapons programs at the department of energy and other national defense programs as well as the department of defense .
the pentagon ’ s specific defense request is for $ 574.5 billion , an increase of 4.6 percent compared with the budget for fiscal year 2017 .
“ looking at defense specifically , this is not a historic budget - much less a buildup , ” said mackenzie eaglen , an analyst at the american enterprise institute , a think tank based in washington .
“ this budget seeks to repair the cracked military foundation by plugging gaps and filling holes , ” she said .
at the direction of defense secretary james mattis , the pentagon is carrying out a broad budget and strategy review , and experts said this budget is more of a placeholder until that is complete .
“ it feels to me like the trump administration just doesn ’ t really have it all together at this point , ” said laicie heeley , a fellow at the stimson center , another washington-based think tank .
the budget request must be passed by congress but faces skeptical lawmakers .
u.s. officials said the focus of the budget proposal was to improve readiness .
u.s .
senator john mccain , one of the leading military and foreign policy voices in congress , said on tuesday that the white house ’ s budget proposal was “ inadequate ” and “ dead on arrival ” in congress .
mccain has been a proponent of increasing base defense spending to above $ 640 billion in order to renew the military and invest in modern capabilities .
“ obviously it is going to take a lot in congress , in both the house and senate , to try to get it done and we are here to help in any way we can , ” acting comptroller john roth told reporters .
the proposal includes an additional $ 65 billion in overseas contingency operations ( oco ) money , which is intended to fund ongoing wars and does not count against the budget caps .
the fiscal 2018 budget proposal ’ s oco funding includes $ 46 billion for operations in afghanistan , but is based on current u.s. troops levels at about 8,400 .
the trump administration is weighing sending between 3,000 and 5,000 additional u.s. and coalition troops to the war-torn country to stem gains made by taliban militants .
the oco fund also includes $ 13 billion for the fight against islamic state militants in iraq and syria and $ 4.8 billion for the european reassurance initiative , which is an increase of about $ 1.4 billion from the 2017 request .
the budget proposes $ 137.2 billion for the army , which is looking to keep active-duty troop levels at 476,000 .
the obama administration had planned for the number of army active-duty troops to go down to 450,000 by the end of fiscal 2017 .
the white house ’ s proposal also earmarks a total of $ 171.5 billion for the navy .
as a presidential candidate , trump made repeated calls to expand the current 275-ship fleet to 350 .
however , that will have to wait because the budget proposal did not accelerate the navy ’ s schedule for purchasing additional ships , but instead increased funding for ship maintenance as the duration of overseas deployments increases .
the navy added a boeing co p-8 submarine-hunting aircraft , but delayed the purchase of two f-35c variant jets made by lockheed martin co .