los angeles ( reuters ) - california voters turned down a ballot initiative aimed at reining in rising prices for prescription drugs after pharmaceutical companies spent more than $ 100 million to fight it .
the california drug price relief act , also known as proposition 61 , sought to limit state health programs from paying more for medications than the u.s. department of veterans affairs ( va ) , which receives the steepest discounts in the country .
as of wednesday morning , with more than 99 percent of precincts partially reporting from tuesday ’ s election , the vote was 46 percent in favor of the measure and 54 percent opposed , according to california ’ s secretary of state .
“ the pharmaceutical companies spent a lot to defeat this , ” said stuart schweitzer , professor of health policy and management at the university of california , los angeles fielding school of public health .
“ they wanted to draw a line in the sand. ” the measure ’ s defeat “ reaffirms the power of the biopharma lobby , ” jefferies analyst brian abrahams said in a note to investors on wednesday .
the rising cost of prescription drugs came under attack during the u.s. presidential campaign .
both president-elect donald trump and democratic candidate hillary clinton called for cost-trimming measures including allowing medicare , the federal health plan for seniors , to negotiate prices with drugmakers .
shares in pharmaceutical and biotechnology shares , under pressure in recent weeks , soared on wednesday as market fears of a win by clinton and democrats gaining power in congress receded .
the nasdaq biotechnology index .nbi advanced 7 percent and was on track for its biggest single-day gain in about five years .
proposition 61 ’ s opponents , led by global drugmakers such as pfizer inc and amgen inc , spent around $ 106 million .
they argued that it would benefit only 12 percent of californians , while putting the other 88 percent , and veterans across the country , at risk of higher drug costs .
supporters , led by the aids healthcare foundation and aarp , which advocates for seniors , said only drug companies themselves can raise prices for veterans or other consumers .
vermont independent senator bernie sanders also campaigned in support of proposition 61 , calling on voters to “ stand up to the greed of the pharmaceutical industry. ” proponents , who raised $ 17 million to support the initiative , estimated it could save california taxpayers up to $ 5.7 billion over 10 years , although a state legislative analysis said the financial impact is not clear .
ucla ’ s schweitzer said the measure would have had only a modest impact on state drug costs .
there were also questions about how proposition 61 would be implemented .
the va ’ s mandated prices are listed publicly , but its steepest negotiated price discounts are required by law to be confidential .
the va spends some $ 6.1 billion a year on medicines for 6 million veterans .
proposition 61 would have extended those discounts to around 4.5 million californians , including certain members of the state ’ s low-income medicaid plan , state employees and retirees , university teachers and prisoners .
a similar proposition has been approved for ohio ’ s 2017 november ballot .