united nations ( reuters ) - france said on tuesday it wanted the united nations security council to consider imposing targeted sanctions on human traffickers operating in libya after a video appearing to show african migrants sold as slaves sparked global outrage .
several members of the 15-member security council expressed their horror at the video during a meeting on tuesday , requested by france , to discuss human trafficking in libya .
the footage broadcast earlier this month by cnn showed what it said was an auction of men to libyan buyers as farmhands and sold for $ 400 each .
french u.n .
ambassador francois delattre said the council should use sanctions to help stamp out trafficking in libya .
france will propose to assist the sanctions committee ... in identifying responsible individuals and entities for trafficking through libyan territory , delattre told the council .
we count upon support of the members of the council to make headway to that end .
under a sanctions regime set up in 2011 , the security council is able to impose a global asset freeze and travel ban on individuals and entities involved in or complicit in ordering , controlling , or otherwise directing , the commission of serious human rights abuses against persons in libya .
france can propose names for targeted u.n. sanctions but needs to win consensus support within the security council s 15-member libya sanctions committee .
some council members expressed support for the possibility of imposing targeted sanctions , while others backed the council first issuing a statement .
diplomats said france , britain and sweden were drafting a statement .
we all have a responsibility to act .
this is not the moment to pass the buck , said sweden s deputy u.n .
ambassador carl skau .
libya descended into chaos after a nato-backed uprising in 2011 led to the overthrow and killing of leader muammar gaddafi , with two competing governments backed by militias scrambling for control of the oil-producing country .
islamic state militants have also gained a foothold in the north african state .
people smugglers operating with impunity in libya have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to europe , mainly italy , by sea since 2014 .
thousands have died during the voyages .
the security council last week adopted an italian-drafted resolution urging tougher action to crack down on human trafficking and modern slavery worldwide .