the university of missouri students , and many on the faculty joined obama s race war in november , 2015 .
together , they began a pr campaign to ensure black students were guaranteed special treatment on campus that would only be afforded to them .
of course white students who ve been ovewhelmed by white guilt , ( thanks to professors and teachers who make it their business to shame students for being born white ) joined the cause to help relieve them of the burden they carry , as a result of their ancestors crimes .
as a side note , it makes no difference if you just became a citizen last year .
if you re white and live in america you re guilty !
we covered the black lives matter protests at mizzou extensively .
we told you about dr. dale brigham , a beloved university of missouri professor , who resigned after he refused to cancel a school exam during the mizzou hunger strike and athlete s boycott .
we showed you a disturbing video of an innocent asian reporter who was bullied by black lives matter protestors while attempting to cover the hunger strike of a not-so-poor oppressed student , who we exposed as the son of a multi-millionaire railroad executive .
we reported about the mizzou teacher who assaulted a reporter .
we exposed the spoiled and self-centered behavior of the students involved in this divisive movement , when they admonished the world for caring more about the paris terror attacks than their plight for justice .
and finally , we reported about a highly recruited football player who after watching the hateful , divisive rhetoric being spewed by the professors and students at mizzou decided to decline their offer to play football .
this was the first step in the unravelling of the university of missouri.here are a few of the tweets we saw from protestors and supporters claiming victory in their fight for justice : protest works y'all .
proof .
we know where the power lies .
# concernedstudent1950 brian kennedy ii ( @ brianekennedy2 ) november 9 , 2015the # concernedstudent1950 protest at @ mucampusdining plaza 900 earlier today .
pic.twitter.com/ryej82uqse anurag chandran ( ) ( @ anuragrc ) november 7 , 2015to have the university system president to resign , that 's huge !
wow great work # concernedstudent1950 other schools are on notice !
antifa jackson ( @ dthom24 ) november 9 , 2015jump to march , 2016 , to see what the black lives matter students and professors were able to accomplish for the good of the university : university of missouri ( mu ) is losing about 1500 students and is facing a huge $ 32 million budget shortfall four months after it attracted national attention as the site of massive race-based campus protests .
i am writing to you today to confirm that we project a very significant budget shortfall due to an unexpected sharp decline in first-year enrollments and student retention this coming fall .
i wish i had better news , said mu interim chancellor hank foley in a wednesday letter to school staff that was obtained by fox sports.according to foley s letter , mu will have about 1500 fewer students in fall 2016 compared to last year , an unexpected drop that is in turn causing a big dip in the school s tuition income.because of the abrupt and unexpected nature of the shortfall , foley is taking immediate and severe steps to fix the situation : the school budget is being cut 5 percent across the board , all hiring is being frozen ( barring exceptional circumstances ) , and annual raises have been canceled .