guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s supreme court said on wednesday it would not investigate the country s president for receiving a salary bonus that made him one of latin america s best-paid leaders .
president jimmy morales received 50,000 quetzals ( $ 6,808 ) each month as a bonus for extraordinary responsibility from the defense ministry that was not part of the official presidential salary , guatemala s federal auditor said last month .
with the bonus , which began last december , morales monthly pay package totaled about 200,000 quetzals ( $ 27,233 ) , according to the defense minister .
he later returned the bonus funds .
the court s decision preserves morales immunity against corruption investigations .
in a separate case last month , guatemala s congress voted to protect the president from a potential probe into alleged illegal campaign financing .
the president already returned the bonus and ... a person can not be judged twice for the same incident .
that is what causes it to be rejected , supreme court spokesman angel pineda said of the bonus case .
a statement from the president s office said morales accepted the court s decision , and contended that actions against him had been politically motivated .
guatemala s federal prosecutor and a united nations-backed commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) had pushed to revoke immunity for morales after his salary bonus became known .
last month , thousands of guatemalans marched to protest high-level corruption in the impoverished country and to demand that morales and guatemalan lawmakers step down .
the federal auditor , which audits all government spending , said on sept. 12 it would investigate the salary bonus , but has not yet produced any findings .
with the salary bonus , morales earned 70 percent more than chilean president michelle bachelet and 130 percent more than mexican president enrique pena nieto , two of the region s best-paid leaders .
the bonus made his salary about 90 times more than the $ 300 monthly minimum wage in guatemala , where 60 percent of the population lives in poverty .