berlin ( reuters ) - the two parties that are in talks to join german chancellor angela merkel s conservatives in government inched closer together in one of the most bitterly contested policy areas on monday , brightening prospects for a coalition .
merkel opened what promise to be marathon coalition talks on friday , hoping to bring three opposing political camps into a stable government despite signs there would be less money to paper over differences .
further talks to discuss tax , finances and europe are planned for tuesday .
merkel said she was hoping to complete exploratory talks an initial stage during which parties decide whether to go ahead with full-blown coalition negotiations by nov. 17 or 18 , participants in a meeting of her conservative bloc said .
at that point the conservative sister parties , the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens should have a document that lays out the rough outlines of what a coalition would work on , the participants cited merkel as saying .
cem ozdemir , leader of the environmentalist greens , welcomed a proposal by the fdp for global action to make it harder for large technology companies to book their taxes in more favorable jurisdictions .
i m pleased that fdp leader christian lindner has moved on this , saying that internet companies for example should be more strongly and fairly taxed , said ozdemir , highlighting progress made in an area where the two parties had been far apart .
it can not be right that amazon and apple use europe as a location and use its infrastructure , but refuse to contribute appropriately to its financing even as every bookseller is chased down if he doesn t pay tax on time , he added .
lindner , whose party advocates low tax and fiscal discipline , also called for deeper cooperation within the european union and the group of 20 leading economies to make global firms pay more tax .
the ability of international companies to minimize their tax liabilities by booking profits in lower-tax jurisdictions has come under the spotlight in recent years as cash-strapped states struggle to finance expanding social and security liabilities .
i can imagine tax increases for companies like apple , lindner told the sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper , in an apparent sacrifice of one of his party s shibboleths to smooth the path towards an unprecedentedly tricky three-way coalition .
merkel s conservatives suffered punishing losses in this month s national election , forcing them to patch together a heterogeneous three-way coalition with few precedents in germany s post-war history .
the potential three-way pact has been dubbed a jamaica coalition because the three parties colors black , yellow and green match those of the jamaican flag .
the greens want to boost infrastructure and environment spending , but the fdp and fiscal hawks in the conservative camp view spending proposals with concern .
the talks , which continue tomorrow , are set to drag on until at least the end of the year .
merkel s christian democrat party estimates that the smaller parties tax and spending proposals would cost as much as 100 billion euros ( $ 117.37 billion ) over the next four years , three times what its expert reckon is available .
senior conservative volker kauder said if the three-way alliance agreed to govern together it would stick to the black zero or balanced budget that was a hallmark of outgoing finance minister wolfgang schaeuble s tenure .
you can assume that we will of course make the balanced budget an object of coalition negotiations if they happen , he said ahead of a meeting of the conservatives in parliament .
and in the exploratory talks it was not disputed at all : there will be no new debt .
we ll stick to the black zero .
german newspaper handelsblatt cited an internal finance ministry paper as saying the new government should preferably use the roughly 30 billion euros of leeway for tax cuts , infrastructure investment especially expanding the broadband network and tackling the causes of migration .
it said all further measures should completely come out of the budgets of the sector they relate to and should be financed either by higher revenues or cuts in other areas .
the finance ministry was not immediately available to comment on the report .
transport minister alexander dobrindt , a conservative , told bild newspaper that immigration limits , social benefits and the future of europe remained big areas of conflict .
lindner maintained the hard line on greece that his party is known for , saying that any country that took a debt haircut would need to leave the euro zone .