putin may be the one person obama has absolutely no influence over .
with obama unable to use his chicago thug-like political tactics on putin , could this finally be the end of hillary clinton s career in politics ?
hillary clinton sits at the center of a raging firestorm concerning her arrangement of a private email account and server set up in her home from which top secret information may have been deleted .
but despite bernie sanders apparent annoyance with the damn emails , the scandal just exponentially intensified , when judge andrew napolitano revealed on monday that russia has possession of around 20,000 of clinton s emails leaving open the possibility her deletions might not have been permanent after all .
there s a debate going on in the kremlin between the foreign ministry and the intelligence services about whether they should release the 20,000 of mrs. clinton s emails that they have hacked into , napolitano told fox news megyn kelly in an interview for the kelly file.https : //youtu.be/oounggti-jkwith clinton s repeated claims she employed the personal email server only for mundane communications and non-sensitive state matters having been proven outright lies , the deletions of 31,830 emails in the new context of napolitano s statement have suddenly become remarkably relevant.as the fbi investigation of hillary clinton s questionable email practices deepens , the question of who had access to what information previously located on the former secretary of state s server is now more critical than ever.one such individual , romanian hacker guccifer , who was abruptly extradited to the united states , revealed he had easily and repeatedly accessed clinton s personal server and he wasn t the only one .
for me , it was easy , the hacker , whose given name is marcel lehel lazar , exclusively told fox news ; easy for me , for everybody .
if guccifer and napolitano are right , russia may , indeed , have possession of highly-sensitive information courtesy of clinton s arrogant failure to adhere to the obligation to use a government email account during her tenure as secretary a situation worsened by the now-mendacious claim no sensitive information had been sent through the personal account.in fact , if guccifer is to be believed as his extradition by the u.s. indicates news of the kremlin having obtained potentially top-secret material may be the tip of a gargantuan iceberg .
using a readily available program , the romanian hacker also claimed he observed up to 10 , like , ips from other parts of the world during sessions on clinton s personal server .
if just one of those unknown parties was connected to russia , who the other nine might be could be central to the fbi s decision whether or not to charge clinton for mishandling classified information.adding yet another nail in the coffin case against hillary on thursday , the hill reported conservative watchdog judicial watch revealed , pursuant to a freedom of information act request , frustration with technical difficulties in obtaining a secure phone line led the secretary to direct a top aide to abandon the effort and call her without the necessary security in place .
i give up .
call me on my home [ number ] , clinton wrote in a february 2009 email from the newly-released batch on the also notoriously unsecured server to then-chief of staff , cheryl mills.via : zero hedge