moscow ( reuters ) - president vladimir putin warned on friday that the standoff between north korea and the united states was close to spilling into a large-scale conflict and said it was a mistake to try to pressure pyongyang into halting its nuclear missile program .
putin , due to attend a summit of the brics nations in china next week , said the only way to de-escalate tensions was via talks , and sergei lavrov , his foreign minister , said washington not pyongyang should take the initiative on that .
it is essential to resolve the region s problems through direct dialogue involving all sides without advancing any preconditions ( for such talks ) , putin , whose country shares a border with north korea , wrote on the kremlin s web site .
provocations , pressure , and bellicose and offensive rhetoric is the road to nowhere .
the russian leader , whose nuclear-capable bombers recently overflew the korean peninsula in a show of force , said the situation had deteriorated so badly that it was now balanced on the verge of a large-scale conflict .
pyongyang has been working to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the united states and recently threatened to land missiles near the u.s. pacific territory of guam .
on monday , north korea , which sees joint war games between the united states and south korea as preparations for invasion , raised the stakes by firing an intermediate-range missile over japan .
in russia s opinion the calculation that it is possible to halt north korea s nuclear missile programs exclusively by putting pressure on pyongyang is erroneous and futile , putin wrote .
a road map formulated by moscow and beijing , which would involve north korea halting its missile program in exchange for the united states and south korea stopping large-scale war games , was a way to reduce tensions , wrote putin .
lavrov , addressing students in moscow , said he felt events were building towards a war which he said would cause large numbers of casualties in japan and south korea if it happened .
if we want to avoid a war the first step must be taken by the side that is the more intelligent and stronger , said lavrov , making clear he was referring to the united states .
he said russia was working behind the scenes and that moscow knew that washington had a back channel to pyongyang which he said he hoped would allow the two sides to de-escalate .