washington ( reuters ) - u.s. law enforcement officials have charged 301 suspects with trying to defraud medicare and other federal insurance programs in 2016 , marking the “ largest takedown ” involving health care fraud allegations , the justice department said on wednesday .
the national sweep resulted in charges against doctors , nurses , pharmacists and physical therapists accused of fraud that cost the government $ 900 million , the department said .
the cases involved an array of charges , including conspiracy to commit health care fraud , money laundering and violations of an anti-kickback law .
this year ’ s sweep exceeded last year ’ s record in which 243 defendants faced charges in a combined $ 712 million in government losses .
officials said it was the largest takedown in the nine-year history of the medicare fraud strike force , a joint initiative between federal , state and local law enforcement .
attorney general loretta lynch said some of the cases reflect new , troublesome trends , including instances of identity theft in order to prepare fake prescriptions and a growing number of cases involving compounding , or the mixing of medications tailored to meet a patient ’ s needs .
compounded medications are typically very expensive .
from 2012 to 2014 , the quarterly medicare spending on these prescriptions skyrocketed from $ 28 million to $ 171 million .
“ as this takedown should make clear , health care fraud is not an abstract violation or benign offense , ” lynch said .
“ it is a serious crime. ” in one case , two owners of a group of outpatient clinics and a patient recruiter stand accused of filing $ 36 million in fraudulent claims for physical therapy and other services that were not medically necessary .
the justice department said that to find patients , the clinic operators and the recruiter targeted poor drug addicts and offered them narcotics so they could bill them for services that were never provided .
another case was filed against the operator of a marketing business that received referral fees from pharmacies that filled and billed tricare , the u.s. military ’ s government insurance program , for compounded medicines .
the prescriptions were submitted via “ telemedicine ” sites , and doctors were given blank prescription forms to fill out , regardless of medical necessity , according to the complaint .
one doctor told the fbi her identity and medical credentials were used without her permission to fill thousands of dollars worth of prescriptions .