sydney ( reuters ) - australia s conservative coalition government regained its razor-thin parliamentary majority on saturday after inner sydney voters re-elected a former professional tennis player in a special poll triggered by a constitutional crisis .
the liberal party victory in the blue-ribbon sydney seat of bennelong is a much-needed relief for prime minister malcolm turnbull , whose leadership has been increasingly unpopular with the public over the past two years .
a loss in bennelong would have plunged his government into a parliamentary minority , forcing it to rely on independent lawmakers to complete its agenda .
a loss would also have placed turnbull s personal position in danger .
with around 73 percent of the two-party preferred vote counted by late saturday , the opposition labor party candidate kristina keneally has secured a swing of about 5.6 percent against the liberal party s john alexander , according to the australian electoral commission .
while a sizeable swing , that was well short of the 10 percent plus needed to install keneally , a high-profile former premier of new south wales , australia s most populous state , in federal politics , and the labor party conceded defeat .
the battle for bennelong was bitterly fought .
turnbull campaigned personally for alexander in the electorate both in the run-up to the vote and on the day of the poll .
thank you bennelong , the people of bennelong have put their faith in this man , turnbull told cheering supporters as he raised alexander s arm in a victory celebration .
liberals have come from across the state , across the nation .
but keneally , who ran a robust campaign urging voters to use the by-election to punish the federal government , warned turnbull that he should be concerned about the swing to labor .
the verdict is in , the message is clear , we have had enough of your lousy leadership , she said in her concession speech .
malcolm turnbull injected himself in this campaign , he owns this result .
turnbull s coalition has been forced to govern in minority since october , when a citizenship crisis cost him several cabinet members and wiped out his flimsy majority .
among those forced out was turnbull s deputy , barnaby joyce , who has since won back his seat .
turnbull , who has lagged in opinion polls all year , and his minority government were forced to accept a widespread banking inquiry after independent members in parliament flexed their new-found power .
the race tightened in recent days amid a diplomatic spat between australia and china , sparked when turnbull accused beijing of improper interference in canberra .
one in five bennelong voters has chinese heritage , raising fears of a backlash .
alexander was forced to re-contest his seat after becoming one of 10 lawmakers , alongside joyce , to leave parliament in recent months as they were swept up in the citizenship crisis .
alexander left parliament because he believed he might hold dual british citizenship , which he has since rescinded .
australia s constitution bars foreign nationals from sitting in parliament to prevent split allegiances .