jakarta/timika , indonesia ( reuters ) - an indonesian police officer was killed and a second wounded on wednesday , after both were shot in the back in an area near freeport-mcmoran inc s giant grasberg copper mine in the eastern province of papua , police said .
the officers were patrolling an area close to where a freeport vehicle was targeted in a shooting on tuesday , papua police spokesman suryadi diaz said in a statement .
a helicopter flew the men to a hospital in the nearby lowland city of timika .
the main access road to grasberg remained closed , freeport indonesia spokesman riza pratama said , referring to a 79-mile ( 127-km ) stretch from timika to the mining town of tembagapura that runs near a river rich with gold tailings from the mine upstream .
a string of at least 15 separate shooting incidents in the area since mid-august that wounded at least 12 people and killed two police officers has been blamed by police on an armed criminal group , but linked to separatist rebels by others .
in a statement , the separatist west papua national liberation army ( tpn-opm ) , a group linked to the free papua movement , claimed responsibility for wednesday s incident .
the group has said it is at war with police , military and freeport .
for decades , there have been sporadic attacks along the road where the shootings took place , but authorities efforts to catch the perpetrators have been hampered by thick surrounding jungle .
the indonesian military ( tni ) and police have urged the armed separatist movement in papua to surrender , but until now no one has turned themselves in , indonesian military chief gatot nurmantyo said in a statement .
armed separatists can not be left alone , he said , adding that reining in such activities was the domain of the military , which was preparing emergency measures in case persuasive approaches by the police and military failed .
papua has had a long-running , and sometimes violent , separatist movement since the province was incorporated into indonesia after a widely criticised 1969 u.n.-backed referendum .
foreign journalists have in the past required special permission to report in papua , and once there , have had security forces restrict their movement and work .
president joko widodo has pledged to make the region more accessible to foreign media by inviting reporters on government-sponsored trips , although coverage remains difficult .