seoul ( reuters ) - north korea may conduct additional missile tests this year to polish up its long-range missile technology and ramp up the threat against the united states , south korea s spy agency said on monday , adding that it was monitoring developments closely .
north korea is pursuing nuclear weapons and missile programs in defiance of u.n. security council sanctions and has made no secret of its plans to develop a missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
it has fired two missiles over japan .
the reclusive state appears to have carried out a recent missile engine test while brisk movements of vehicles were spotted near known missile facilities , yi wan-young , a member of south korea s parliamentary intelligence committee which was briefed by seoul s national intelligence service , said .
no sign of an imminent nuclear test had been detected , yi noted .
the third tunnel at the punggye-ri complex remained ready for another detonation at any time , while construction had recently resumed at a fourth tunnel , making it out of use for the time being .
the agency is closely following the developments because there is a possibility that north korea could fire an array of ballistic missiles this year under the name of a satellite launch and peaceful development of space , but in fact to ratchet up its threats against the united states , the lawmakers told reporters after a closed-door briefing by the spy agency .
north korea defends its weapons programs as a necessary defense against u.s. plans to invade .
the united states , which has 28,500 troops in south korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war , denies any such intention .
pyongyang is also carrying out a sweeping ideological scrutiny of the political unit of the military for the first time in 20 years , according to kim byung-kee , another lawmaker in the committee .
the probe was led by the ruling workers party s organisation and guidance department and orchestrated by choe ryong hae , who once headed the general political bureau of the korean people s army himself until he was replaced by hwang pyong so in may 2014 .
as a result , hwang and kim won hong , who seoul s unification ministry said was removed from office in mid-january as minister of the stasi-like secret police called bowibu , had been punished , the lawmaker said .
he did not elaborate .
choe , who was subjected to political reeducation himself in the past , appears to be gaining more influence since he was promoted in october to the party s powerful central military commission .
the national intelligence service indicated that choe now heads the organisation and guidance department , a secretive body that oversees appointments within north korea s leadership .
under choe s command , the organisation and guidance department is undertaking an inspection of the military politburo for the first time in 20 years , taking issue with their impure attitude toward the party leadership , the lawmaker , kim , said .
separately on monday , south korea approved a request by a south korean to attend an event in the north marking the anniversary of the death of his mother who formerly led the chondoist chongu party , a minor north korean political party .
the son , identified only by his surname choi , will be the first south korean to visit the north since liberal president moon jae-in took office in may .
he is scheduled to arrive in pyongyang via china on wednesday and return on saturday , according to seoul s unification ministry .
a senior chinese official wrapped up a four-day visit to north korea on monday , apparently without meeting the country s leader , kim jong un .
song tao , head of the international department of the chinese communist party , met senior officials from the workers party of korea and exchanged views on the korean peninsula issue , china s official xinhua news agency said .
the ruling parties of china and the democratic people s republic of korea on monday pledged to strengthen inter-party exchanges and coordination , and push forward relations , it added , using north korea s official name .
song had been in pyongyang to discuss the outcome of the recently concluded chinese communist party congress in beijing .