london ( reuters ) - britain has not conducted formal sector-by-sector analyses of the impact that leaving the european union will have on the economy , brexit minister david davis said on wednesday , arguing they were not necessary yet .
the comments inflamed critics of the government s handling of the complex divorce process at a time when talks with brussels have stalled because of a row over how to manage the irish border after brexit .
davis has become embroiled in a long-running argument with lawmakers including from the ruling conservative party over what preparatory work the government has undertaken , and how much of it should be made public .
there s no systematic impact assessment i m aware of , davis told a parliamentary committee , saying it would be more appropriate to conduct such analysis later in the negotiating process .
his remarks drew immediate criticism from lawmakers on the committee , who said davis was contradicting his previous statement that the government had analyses of the sectoral impact that went into excruciating detail .
whether it s through incompetence or insincerity , david davis has been misleading parliament from the start , said wera hobhouse , a member of the brexit committee from the liberal democrat party .
it is unbelievable that these long-trumpeted impact assessments don t even exist , meaning the government has no idea what their brexit plans will do to the country .
opposition lawmakers have pressured the government into releasing a summary of its analysis to the committee .
on wednesday , they complained that the analysis given to them was incomplete and called for more detail .
but the committee scrutinising government policy on leaving the eu said they were satisfied that the government had fulfilled its obligations to publish the documents .
nevertheless , pro-eu labour lawmaker chuka umunna said he has written to the speaker of the house of commons to ask if the government has misled parliament .
davis and his team of ministers have previously said its sectoral analysis is not a formal impact assessment a technical document submitted to parliament and that publishing the work it has done could undermine britain s negotiating position .
we will at some stage do the best we can to quantify the effect of different negotiating outcomes as we come up to them bearing in mind we haven t started phase two ( negotiations ) yet , davis said , referring to the second phase of talks which will focus on trade .
he said those assessments would look at the impact of different outcomes on sectors including financial services , manufacturing and agriculture .