beijing ( reuters ) - the failure of catalonia s effort to declare independence shows that taiwan independence is also doomed to fail as national unity is paramount for all countries , a chinese official said on wednesday .
china takes a dim view of independence or secessionist movements around the world , while saying it adheres to a policy of non-interference in other nations internal affairs .
beijing has said it opposes any actions to split spain .
last month madrid assumed direct rule over catalonia after the spanish prime minister sacked the region s secessionist government which had declared independence from spain following an attempted referendum .
the issue is particularly sensitive for china because of the status of self-ruled and democratic taiwan , claimed by china as its inherent territory , but where many people would like to proclaim formal independence , a red line for beijing .
the failure of catalonia s independence bid was a good thing , said ma xiaoguang , the spokesman of china s policy-making taiwan affairs office .
the failure of the catalonia referendum fully shows that protecting national sovereignty and territorial integrity is a paramount national interest for east or west , ma told a regular news briefing .
so taiwan independence is doomed to failure .
relations between beijing and taipei have nosedived since the island elected tsai ing-wen as president last year .
china believes she wants formal independence for taiwan .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china , but will defend taiwan s democracy and security .
china has suspended a regular dialogue mechanism with taiwan , stepped up military drills around the island and sought to squeeze its international space by siphoning off taiwan s remaining diplomatic allies .
this week , taiwan said its environment minister had been prevented from attending an annual u.n. climate meeting in germany , despite credentials as a non-governmental participant , due to pressure from china .
ma said taiwan had itself to blame for the poor state of ties and its inability to participate in events such as the climate talks .
the taiwan side shouldn t put blame on others while they themselves are to blame , and should earnestly reflect on things , he added .