ankara ( reuters ) - a german journalist went on trial for terrorism charges in turkey on wednesday , saying she was innocent and demanding her immediate release , in a case that has damaged already sour relations with berlin .
mesale tolu was detained in april , accused of being a member of a terrorist organization and publishing terrorist propaganda .
her husband was also detained and their three-year-old son has been living with his mother in jail for the last five months .
tolu is one of 18 people on trial accused of membership of the mlkp , a communist party with links to armed kurdish groups .
they face up to 20 years in jail .
i have not committed any of the above mentioned crimes and have no connection with illegal organizations .
i demand my release and my acquittal , tolu told the court in silivri , near istanbul , turkish media reported .
the court ordered that tolu and five other defendants remain in jail pending trial , while releasing eight others .
the next hearing will be on dec. 18 .
german foreign minister sigmar gabriel demanded her release .
we demand a fair trial , based on the rule of law .
above all , what matters now is speed so that mesale tolu can be released as soon as possible , he told bild newspaper in an interview published on wednesday .
tolu is one of 11 german nationals detained in turkey - among them fellow journalist deniz yucel and human rights campaigner peter steudtner .
the cases have added to strains in bilateral relations after ankara denied german lawmakers permission to visit german soldiers serving at the incirlik air base .
in a crackdown on alleged perpetrators of an attempted coup last year , some 50,000 people been jailed pending trial .
chancellor angela merkel said last month that turkey s 12-year journey to join the european union should be halted .
tolu said it was unacceptable that she and her son had spent five months in jail .
pre-trial detention has become punishment not only for me but also for my family and for my son , she told the court .