people always wonder why black people are so reluctant to call the police for help , but here is yet another example in a long line that demonstrates just why we are so wary of law enforcement , even when we are the victims.19-year-old chicago resident quintonio legrier called 911 three times in an emergency , only to have dispatchers hang up on him .
when police arrived , as happens in so many of these cases , he was fatally shot by the very people charged with serving and protecting him .
from the root : according to abc news , audio of the 19-year-old s 911 calls made dec. 26 were released late monday by chicago s independent police review authority , which is investigating both legrier s death and the death of his neighbor bettie jones .
jones , 55 , was also shot and killed by police after she opened their apartment building door to let police in.earlier that day , legrier called 911 asking that a police officer be sent to his address .
the first call was made at 4:18 a.m. , and the last call was made three minutes later .
there s an emergency , can you send an officer ?
legrier can be heard saying on one of the calls.during one call , legrier didn t respond to the 911 operator s questions and the dispatcher hung up on the teen , abc reports.however , instead of providing assistance , the cops came , after quintonio s father , antonio legrier , told a 911 operator , my son has freaked out .
i need an officer .
when the supposed help arrived , the child was shot dead .
police , of course , are covering their asses .
the statement they released regarding the incident reads : upon arrival , officers were confronted by a combative subject resulting in the discharging of the officer s weapon , fatally wounding two individuals .
quintonio legrier was not the only person the cops murdered that night .
a woman named bettie jones , a 55-year-old mother with five children , was also executed.this is why black people do not trust the police .
i don t care what kind of trouble i am in , they are the last people i d call for help because said help just might cost me my life.watch a video news report on the incident below : featured image via video screen capture