london/brussels ( reuters ) - britain and its european union partners clashed on monday over which side should make the next move to unblock brexit talks , despite concerns they will miss a deadline for a divorce deal and that london is heading for a chaotic departure .
prime minister theresa may made clear in a speech she delivered to parliament that she hoped her eu partners would make proposals at a new round of talks opening the way to the next stage of negotiations , saying the ball is in their court .
but even before she had delivered her address , an eu spokesman hit back in brussels , saying the ball is entirely in the uk court for the rest to happen .
may is desperate to try to regain some of her authority and refocus on talks to unravel 40 years of union after a speech at her party conference last week , marred by a repetitive cough , a prankster and a stage malfunction , left her weaker than ever .
she has so far fought off attempts to unseat her by critics already angry over an ill-judged election when she lost her governing conservatives majority .
but her weakness has opened the door for many in the party to challenge her brexit strategy with just 18 months to go before britain leaves the eu .
with brussels quietly preparing for a collapse in the talks and britain getting ready for what may calls every eventuality , some officials and business chiefs worry the country will crash out of the eu without a deal .
speaking in parliament , may said her negotiators had made progress on the first phase of talks , tackling the rights of expatriates and the border with eu-member ireland , and that she was determined to secure a new partnership with the other 27 members of the wealthy political and trade bloc .
achieving that partnership will require leadership and flexibility , not just from us but from our friends , the 27 nations of the eu , she told a raucous session of parliament .
and as we look forward to the next stage , the ball is in their court .
but i am optimistic we will receive a positive response .
but the eu stuck to its terms : there is a clear sequencing to these talks and there has been so far no solution found on step one , which is the divorce proceedings , european commission spokesman margaritis schinas told a regular briefing .
so the ball is entirely in the uk court for the rest to happen .
may , who hosted businesses on monday to listen to their brexit concerns , is keen to push the talks beyond a discussion of the divorce to try to offer firms some certainty about future trading conditions .
according to a source familiar with the matter , may told business leaders that for her , a roughly two-year transitional agreement was non-negotiable .
it will happen , the source said when asked what may had spoken about .
she also said her government had no intention of revoking article 50 , which triggered the brexit talks in march this year , and stopping britain s departure .
but a lack of progress in talks some 15 months after britain voted to leave the eu in a referendum has added pressure on may , who was criticized by the opposition for failing to offer any clarity on what the future relationship will look like .
now the reality for this tory ( conservative ) government is beginning to bite , but if things do not improve , the reality may soon begin to bite for the jobs and living standards of the people of this country , said jeremy corbyn , leader of the opposition labour party .
a report that aerospace manufacturer bae systems ( baes.l ) is planning to cut more than 1,000 jobs did little to ease those concerns that without progress in the talks , firms will start to make staffing and relocation decisions .
eu negotiators say that while they see no big breakthrough at the summit next week , they may offer may a hand by offering hope of a shift at the next scheduled meeting in mid-december .
aides to may have signaled that the prime minister has accepted that her october deadline will not be met despite a speech in italy last month which attempted to reset the tone of the difficult negotiations .
but some pro-brexit campaigners are calling on the prime minister to get ready to step away from the talks - underlining the deep divisions in the conservative party .
those differences were aired again on monday with negative briefings in the local media against finance minister philip hammond , who supports prolonging the status quo with the eu for as long as possible , and foreign minister boris johnson , who angered some conservatives for setting his own brexit red lines .
some have suggested that may will reshuffle her cabinet , but her spokesman said she had full confidence in both ministers .
we are fast reaching the point when the prime minister should assert the authority of her office over the negotiations and call time , bernard jenkin , a conservative lawmaker , wrote in the guardian newspaper .
john baron , another pro-brexit campaigner , called on the government to prepare more thoroughly for a no deal .
i have long believed that the eu commission primarily wants to punish britain for daring to leave the organization , he said .
we should have no fears about a no deal scenario .