jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s capital has shut a hotel and spa complex for alleged vice , city officials said on monday , after islamist groups in the muslim-majority country had urged jakarta s governor to act on a campaign pledge to shut the premises .
the alexis hotel , whose website describes it as a dreamland for men , became embroiled in the city s recent election when the new governor , anies baswedan , promised in a televised debate to shut it and accused his predecessor of only acting against more downmarket venues offering vice and drugs .
edy junaedi , head of the jakarta capital investment and one-stop integrated services ( ptsp ) agency , confirmed by telephone on monday that the hotel s permit had not been renewed .
in a letter , the city government said it had decided not to extend the permit after information circulating in media about forbidden activities , adding that it was required to prevent any immoral and illegal activities .
islamist groups had previously sent a letter to authorities demanding the hotel be closed , but later called off a proposed protest rally outside the venue for security and technical reasons , state news agency antara said .
the hotel did not immediately respond to a request for comment and its owner could not be reached .
media quoted baswedan as saying the city would take firm action against any businesses conducting immoral practices .
the governor faced criticism after winning april s jakarta election with the support of islamist groups who had agitated for months against his opponent and former governor basuki tjahaja purnama - an ethnic chinese christian - whom they accused of blasphemy against islam .
purnama demolished jakarta s sprawling kalijodo red-light district in 2016 as part of a nationwide crackdown on prostitution and also closed a number of notorious jakarta nightclubs over drug use .
though illegal in indonesia , prostitution is rampant in most cities , and the decision to close the alexis comes as groups like the hardline islamic defenders front ( fpi ) , which has a history of raiding nightclubs and bars , want baswedan to impose a more islamic lifestyle on the city of more than 10 million .
novel bamukmin , head of fpi s jakarta chapter , has said the group would push baswedan s administration to gradually close down bars and clubs in a city known for a freewheeling nightlife because it s immoral and ... not islamic culture .
sandiaga uno , baswedan s deputy , has said the administration would consider setting up sharia-inspired or sharia-compliant entertainment spots similar to those in abu dhabi or dubai .
( this story has been refiled to correct year in ninth paragraph to 2016 , not 2006 )