washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on monday struck down a gender distinction in u.s. immigration law that treats mothers and fathers differently when determining a child ’ s citizenship , calling such inequality “ stunningly anachronistic. ” the high court , in a 8-0 ruling authored by justice ruth bader ginsburg , found that a provision in federal law that defines how people born overseas can be eligible for u.s. citizenship violated the u.s. constitution ’ s equal protection guarantee .
the ruling , however , may not help the man who brought the case , new york resident luis morales-santana , who was seeking to avoid deportation to the dominican republic after being convicted of several offenses .
the law requires that unwed fathers who are american citizens spend at least five years living in the united states - a 2012 amendment reduced it from 10 years - before they can confer citizenship to a child born abroad , out of wedlock and to a partner who is not a u.s. citizen .
for unwed u.s. mothers in the same situation , the requirement was only one year .
in the ruling , the supreme court said that until congress revises the law , both women and men will be covered by the five-year requirement .
ginsburg , known for her work on gender equality before she became a jurist , wrote for the court that in light of the supreme court ’ s various rulings regarding the equal protection guarantee since 1971 , having separate “ duration-of-residence requirements for unwed mothers and fathers who have accepted parental responsibility is stunningly anachronistic. ” the arguments made in defense of the law by former president barack obama ’ s administration before he left office in january “ can not withstand inspection under a constitution that requires the government to respect the equal dignity and stature of its male and female citizens , ” ginsburg wrote .
morales-santana ’ s deceased father was an american citizen , while his mother was not .
his father failed to meet the law ’ s five-year requirements by 20 days .
his lawyer , stephen broome , said he is reviewing how the ruling affects his client .
morales-santana , 54 , was born in the dominican republican and has lived legally in the united states since 1975 .
he was convicted of several criminal offenses in 1995 , including two counts of robbery and four counts of attempted murder .
the u.s. government has sought to deport him since 2000 .
the high court split 4-4 on the same issue in 2011 .
in july 2015 , the 2nd u.s .
circuit court of appeals in new york sided with morales-santana and struck down the law at issue , saying it applied “ impermissible stereotyping ” in imposing a tougher burden on fathers .
the u.s. justice department sought to defend the law and asked the high court to take the case .
the case is one of several with immigration-related themes that are before the justices at a time when president donald trump ’ s administration is pursing efforts to strengthen immigration enforcement .