belfast/dublin ( reuters ) - the british government is to impose a budget on northern ireland for the first time in a decade , a major step toward imposing direct rule after attempts to form a power-sharing government in belfast collapsed .
many in the province fear direct rule would further destabilize a political balance between pro-british unionists and irish nationalists that has already been upset by britain s vote to leave the european union .
the move also creates a headache for british prime minister theresa may , whose minority government is dependent on northern ireland s democratic unionist party ( dup ) to pass legislation .
irish nationalists sinn fein and the pro-british dup have shared power in northern ireland for a decade under the terms of the 1998 good friday peace agreement , which ended three decades of violence that killed 3,600 people .
but sinn fein pulled out in january , complaining it was not being treated as an equal partner .
the latest round of talks on re-establishing the devolved executive collapsed on wednesday .
sinn fein is disappointed that the last few weeks of negotiations have ended in failure , the party s leader in northern ireland , michelle o neill , told journalists .
but as you all know endless talks without conclusion are not sustainable .
sinn fein leader gerry adams said the party was open to further dialogue , but only if it was meaningful .
dup member of parliament gregory campbell accused sinn fein of holding back government in northern ireland with a narrow political agenda , including a push for greater recognition for the irish language .
in a sign that a resolution is unlikely in the coming weeks , campbell appeared to dismiss a dup compromise on language rights , saying his party can not and will not elevate the irish language above all others .
but party leader arlene foster was more positive , telling ireland s rte television that london setting a budget doesn t stop us continuing to engage with sinn fein and trying to find a solution to the problems that we have .
britain s minister for northern ireland james brokenshire said as there was no immediate prospect of a new executive being formed he had no choice but to start the process of setting a budget from london to ensure funding for essential services .
this can t simply continue forever and a day ...
there are decisions that have been stored up that have to be taken , he told journalists .
the budget process could be handed back if agreement is reached between the two parties , he added .
may and irish prime minister leo varadkar agreed in a telephone call that the gap between the two sides was narrow and that it was still possible to form an executive in northern ireland , varadkar s office said in a statement on thursday .
but varakdar also said there could be no return to direct rule as it existed prior to the good friday agreement , a reference to the irish government position that it should have a role in the governance of northern ireland if power-sharing is not restored .
may replied that she also did not want direct rule , the statement said .
when irish foreign minister simon coveney made the point in september that there can be no british-only direct rule , a british government spokesman responded by saying britain would never countenance joint authority .
sinn fein on wednesday encouraged dublin to play a role , saying the british and irish governments should together act urgently to deliver equality in northern ireland .
on wednesday , coveney warned that the disagreement could complicate relations with london in the middle of delicate brexit negotiations .
the prospect of direct rule in northern ireland and the irish government s insistence on having a role in that - an appropriate role consistent with the good friday agreement - is not where we want to be , he told rte radio .
sinn fein s adams said that , in addition to brexit , the agreement by the dup to support may s government in london had helped to destabilize the province .
don t underestimate the impact of the dup-tory pact in all of this , he said .