what the heck is going on over at fox news , the cable news network that used to be the only place on tv that americans could go to for truth ? sean hannity is one of the few conservative voices with a massive audience who is willing to stick his neck out and risk his career to get the truth out behind the murder of 27-year old dnc staffer seth rich.after the notorious hacker kim dot.com tweeted about his claim to have evidence that seth rich was the person who sent the dnc emails to wikileaks , sean hannity responded to him .
hannity even asked dotcom to appear on his show , hoping that he would reveal evidence that seth rich was the person who sent the dnc emails to wikileaks , and not the russians.here was the first email from kim dotcom where he claims to have known seth rich and that rich was the wikileaks source .
dotcom also claims he was involved in the email exchange.i knew seth rich .
i know he was the @ wikileaks source .
i was involved .
https : //t.co/mbgqtehhzm kim dotcom ( @ kimdotcom ) may 20 , 2017sean hannity responded to kim dotcom s tweet : you are the evidence ?
can you explain that in more detail ?
https : //t.co/9oop3myon9 sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 20 , 2017hannity then invited kim dotcom to appear on his show and share the evidence he has that rich was the dnc leaker with his audience : stay tuned .
public invitation kim dotcom to be a guest on radio and tv .
# gamechanger buckle up destroy trump media .
sheep that u all are ! ! !
https : //t.co/3qlwxcgl6z sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 20 , 2017kim dotcom applauded hannity for pursuing the rich case : congress , investigate seth rich murder !
@ julianassange made comments u need to listen to !
if seth was wiki source , no trump/russia collusion https : //t.co/qphzwypu34 sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 22 , 2017the flailing cable network station fox news , that just fell into 3rd place in the ratings after firing their top host bill o reilly , made a public statement today about sean hannity s investigation into the murder of seth rich and the possibility that he was the dnc leaker.from fox news : on may 16 , a story was posted on the fox news website on the investigation into the 2016 murder of dnc staffer seth rich .
the article was not initially subjected to the high degree of editorial scrutiny we require for all our reporting .
upon appropriate review , the article was found not to meet those standards and has since been removed.we will continue to investigate this story and will provide updates as warranted.after fox news disavowed the seth rich story , liberal rag the daily beast published a story with unnamed sources at fox news who were embarrassed by sean hannity pursuing this story , claiming he had no evidence .sean hannity re-tweeted their baseless , nameless story here : very interesting .
my heart is not troubled in the least .
night all .
https : //t.co/mgoow2xvyu sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 23 , 2017it s interesting how leftist publications are circling conservative media like a bunch of vultures trying to shut down anyone who questions the seth rich dnc emails connection to wikileaks , calling it embarrassing because there is no evidence , yet they ve been carrying on with an investigation into trump-russia collusion during the election that has not yielded an ounce of evidence .
but that s somehow not embarrassing ?
sorry hypocrites , you can t have it both ways haha shocking .
`` anonymous sources '' again ! !
name names !
! maybe these anonymous people can work at @ cnn and help with fake news .
or i can .. https : //t.co/1pchjejnc7 sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 23 , 2017hannity also tweeted about the media hypocrisy here : and if you dare ask an honest question , now it 's a `` conspiracy theory with , no proof '' .
greatest hypocrisy ever .
stay tuned !
busy week .
https : //t.co/or7zcqzofl sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 23 , 2017sean hannity to his credit , has stayed the course and is sticking his neck out to get the truth out about seth rich .
only a few hours ago , hannity tweeted about his bombshell announcement about seth rich tonight , and curiously , he also tweeted about his future at fox !
who s pulling the strings at fox these days ?
huge announcement tonight about seth rich , trump/russian collusion corrupt media , the liberal effort to silence me .
and my future at fox !
sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 23 , 2017did george soros get to the liberal murdoch brothers ?
it would appear that hannity may be suggesting they are in this tweet : i said publicly over and over to the rich family they are in my thoughts and prayers .
i m trying to find the truth as the mom dad bro asked https : //t.co/op11hvrlww sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) may 23 , 2017the more attention the seth rich case gets , the more the left is freaking out .
watch sanctimonious and as far as we know , the jobless keith olbermann ( he lists his job as a gq correspondent in his twitter profile ) tell his massive audience on twitter ( only 169 people liked his video ) that seth rich was murdered in a botched robbery .
sorry keith bozo , but when nothing of value is stolen from the body of the person you were robbing it s not really considered a robbery .
new video : if you 're one of the scum selling this seth rich story to deflect from this scum trump : burn in hell pic.twitter.com/6iut1rb8av keith olbermann ( @ keitholbermann ) may 22 , 2017the left will stop at nothing to keep this story out of the news and to keep the focus on a trump-russia narrative that to date , has not provided one shred of actual evidence to their claim .
tonight could be a make it or break it night for sean hannity and his career with fox news .
no matter what happens on hannity s show tonight , he s a hero in our eyes for at least pursuing the possibility that something other than the contrived trump-russia narrative put forth by the democrats and their allies in the media could actually be the truth here s to hannity making conservatives proud again !