trump has the left scrambling to figure out how they re going to stop the flow of illegal immigrants future democrat voters into america .
the possibility that he will defeat hillary in a landslide election is becoming more and more real every day the chairman of the huge media company univision has coughed up $ 7 million to support hillary clinton , according to a report on the biggest donors to her presidential campaign.haim saban and his wife , described as liberal mega donors , are the democratic front-runner s top donors , according to the campaign database opensecrets.org and its reporter will tucker.saban is notable inside the donald trump campaign for canceling coverage of trump s miss usa pageant on the spanish-language network after the republican proposed a wall between the countries.tucker revealed the information on full measure with sharyl attkisson , which will air sunday on sinclair stations and online.by comparison , trump s top donor gave $ 150,000 , said the report.from the show s transcript , provided in advance to secrets : attkisson : would people be surprised to know what s really going on behind some of these campaigns ?
tucker : i think they would .
and i think the data that we work with every day reflects kind of what people fear about the political system .
it reflects that very few people have an outside influence over the federal political system in the united states .
tucker also found that wall street is clinton s top donor.below is the information and fuller transcript provided by attkisson s show : sharyl attkisson : who are hillary clinton s biggest industries and individuals giving to her or her super pacs ?
will tucker , open secrets : if you look at her campaign , what you ll see is very traditional democratic sources of campaign funds : education as an industry and lawyers and law firms , to be specific .
but if you factor in her super pacs that are supporting her , securities and investment , what we consider to be wall street jumps up the list .
it is her number one donor industry .
haim sabin is one of the biggest supporters of hillary clinton s priorities u.s.a. action super pac.sharyl : who s haim saban ?
tucker : haim saban is the chairman of a big media group .
he is a liberal mega donor , and has been for several years .
he s a very plugged in donor with the clinton coalition .
saban and his wife have supported hillary clinton to the tune of $ 7 million dollars .
their giant media investment firm owns univision .
that s the spanish language tv network that cancelled plans to air trump s miss u.s.a. pageant after he said he d build a wall on mexico s border and crack down on illegal immigration .
sharyl : would people be surprised to know what s really going on behind some of these campaigns ?
tucker : i think they would .
and i think the data that we work with every day reflects kind of what people fear about the political system .
for entire story : washington examiner