berlin ( reuters ) - peter altmaier once said he would never rise to the top tier of german politics because of his appearance he is a huge man who seems perpetually dishevelled , with shirt untucked and tie askew .
but chancellor angela merkel s chief of staff and stand-in finance chief could become the most influential minister in her next coalition government , senior officials say .
in recent years , merkel has often turned to altmaier , who is known as her allzweckwaffe ( all purpose weapon ) , to carry out the most sensitive and complex tasks , from securing majorities for unpopular greek bailouts to coordinating the government s response to the 2015 refugee crisis .
since a sept. 24 election , he has also emerged as a bridge builder between the disparate parties in coalition talks .
if the talks succeed , some officials believe merkel will try to keep him at the finance ministry so he can tackle what may be the biggest challenge of her fourth term : brokering a deal with french president emmanuel macron on a reform of the european union .
if merkel made him finance minister for this transition period , then it is a sign that she trusts him to do this job in the future , a senior aide to the chancellor told reuters .
henrik enderlein , head of the delors institut in berlin , a think tank , said it would send a very strong signal to france if altmaier continued in the finance ministry post .
the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) are expected to have first choice of ministry in the new government .
but if their leader christian lindner does not claim the finance ministry for himself , altmaier could be in pole position .
although the fdp and members of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) are skeptical about some of macron s proposals - notably his idea to create a budget and finance minister for the euro zone - some believe altmaier s tone alone would inject new momentum into the relationship between berlin and paris .
altmaier , who declined to speak to reuters for this story , has not said publicly whether he is interested in becoming finance minister permanently after meeting french finance minister bruno le maire last week , he said not all proposals from paris would be greeted with unlimited enthusiasm .
but he added : i never made it a secret that i m an advocate of franco-german cooperation .
a jovial 59-year-old from the state of saarland on the french border , altmaier stands out among politicians and the officials in merkel s close entourage , dominated by technocrats .
the son of a coal miner and a nurse , altmaier was the first prominent german politician to actively embrace twitter .
he hosts extravagant dinners at his vast apartment in west berlin , cooking gefilde a saarland specialty of potato dumplings filled with liverwurst and soaked in a bacon-cream sauce for guests of all political stripes .
altmaier speaks fluent english , french and dutch and , unlike his boss , is a master communicator .
he also likes to make fun of himself , particularly his weight , which he estimated several years ago at 140 kilos ( 309 pounds ) but now describes as a state secret .
i may not be the wichtigste ( most important ) minister but i am the gewichtigste ( heaviest ) , he has joked .
after years as merkel s mr fix it , some cdu officials see him as a dark horse candidate to succeed the chancellor one day .
as parliamentary whip for the cdu , he won over skeptics about the greek bailouts with home-cooked meals and red wine .
the thinner the majority , the fatter altmaier gets , bundestag members used to quip .
later , as merkel s environment minister , he brought order to her nuclear power phase-out and was appointed her chief of staff in 2013 .
two years later , she turned to altmaier for help over the arrival of hundreds of thousands of refugees and again this year to write the cdu s election program .
in coalition talks between merkel s conservatives , the fdp and greens , altmaier has been a mediator , gently nudging the parties closer together , participants say .
like merkel , he is a cdu moderate .
after joining the bundestag in 1994 , he incurred the wrath of traditionalists by pushing for a reform of strict german citizenship laws and the rehabilitation of world war two deserters .
he was part of the pizza connection , a group of young lawmakers from the cdu and greens who met regularly at an italian restaurant in bonn , when the environmentalist party was viewed as a radical , fringe group by many conservatives .
before entering german politics , altmaier studied european law and worked at the european commission , later participating in the european convention that led to the eu s lisbon treaty .
altmaier is one of a small number of top-tier german politicians who has real experience in brussels , said martin selmayr , chief of staff to european commission president jean-claude juncker , who worked with altmaier in the convention in 2002 .
he is a committed european and would be a powerful pro-european voice in any german government .