( reuters ) - utilities in the u.s. southeast returned power to almost half of the homes and businesses knocked out by hurricane irma , leaving about 4.3 million customers in the dark as of midday wednesday , in one of the biggest restoration efforts in u.s. history .
the total number of customers still out , representing about 9 million people in florida , georgia and the carolinas , dipped from a peak of more than 7.8 million customers , or over 16 million people , on monday .
major utilities in florida - including nextera energy inc s florida power & light ( fpl ) , duke energy corp and emera inc s tampa electric - have mobilized tens of thousands of workers to deal with the outages after irma landed early sunday and carved a destructive path up florida , which has a population of about 20.6 million .
fpl , the state s largest utility , said its outages dropped to around 1.9 million customers on wednesday from a peak of more than 3.6 million on monday .
some florida utilities , including fpl , warned customers it could take weeks to restore power in the hardest hit areas .
fpl said on tuesday it planned to restore power to eastern florida by this weekend and to western florida by sept. 22 .
irma , categorized as one of the most powerful atlantic storms on record when it rampaged through the caribbean , has killed at least 77 people , including 36 in the united states , officials said .
fpl said on wednesday it had provided power to some parts of a nursing home where people died after the facility lost electricity during irma and that the home was not on a list critical facilities prioritized for emergency power restoration .
parts of the facility itself were energized by fpl , i can t give you anything more specific than that at this point , fpl spokesman rob gould told a news conference .
two elderly residents were found dead at the rehabilitation center of hollywood hills and three later died at a hospital .
fpl , like other utilities , follows a plan to restore power to the largest number of customers as quickly as possible .
fpl said after repairing any damage to its power plants and the lines that carry electricity from the generating facilities , the company next restores critical facilities , like hospitals , police and fire stations , communication facilities , water treatment plants , transportation providers and shelters .
about 150 of florida s nearly 700 nursing facilities do not have power restored , according to the florida health care association , an advocacy group representing facilities statewide .
locations without power have been flagged to the state to help utilities prioritize their work , the group said in a statement .
the loss of these individuals is a profound tragedy within the larger tragedy of hurricane irma , the association said in a statement .
irma hit southwestern florida on sunday morning as a category 4 storm , the second most severe on the five-step saffir-simpson scale .
it had weakened to a tropical depression on monday .
more than 60,000 workers from across the united states and canada were involved in the restoration efforts , including those from the affected companies and other utilities , according to the edison electric institute , an industry trade group .