it can easily be said that donald trump is a few sandwiches short of a picnic , and he just proved that fact once again with his latest tweet.trump , since the start of his campaign , has been telling everyone that he s going to get rid of obamacare and replace it with something better , and quite honestly if his latest tweet is what he wants liberals will likely get on board .
however , in his idiocy , he probably doesn t realize what he just said.trump tweeted out : of course the australians have better healthcare than we do everybody does .
obamacare is dead !
but our healthcare will soon be great .
of course the australians have better healthcare than we do everybody does .
obamacare is dead !
but our healthcare will soon be great .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) may 5 , 2017if trump wants to give us what the rest of the industrialized world has , have at it !
please do !
! australia has a medicare for all program for their citizens , and nations around the world have similar health systems that provide care for their nation s citizens .
they take out the middleman of for-profit insurance , and give direct , affordable care , only increasing taxes slightly , and you no longer have the added expense of insurance premiums .
and everyone is covered.now , this isn t likely what trump meant to say , but it is what he said.the american health care act , better known as trumpcare , that passed yesterday in the house is simply a gift to the wealthy while stripping insurance and necessary benefits from those who need it most .
that s not what australia has , and would be far worse than anything else in the world.twitter quickly reminded trump that he s a moron : @ realdonaldtrump australia is part of the rest of the civilized world that has universal hc.we can do better. # ahca # fridayfeeling # theresistance pic.twitter.com/x1k7f6mag3 holly o'reilly ( @ aynrandpaulryan ) may 5 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump and why do you think that everybody else has better healthcare than we do ?
could it perhaps be because of universal coverage ?
simon hedlin ( @ simonhedlin ) may 5 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump here is the health insurance coverage rate in america compared with other countries before obamacare .
yes , let 's turn back the clock !
pic.twitter.com/fnetx0nbnd simon hedlin ( @ simonhedlin ) may 5 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump they have government funded universal healthcare pic.twitter.com/z1ox0e0mf7 robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) may 5 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump what 's the one thing pretty much every industrialized nation has with regards to healthcare that we do n't ?
parker molloy ( @ parkermolloy ) may 5 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump so you 're now for tax payer funded universal healthcare ? ? ?
make it happen , then ! !
kyle mcmahon ( @ kmacmusic ) may 5 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump will you promise the american people right now to support an australian-style healthcare system ?
dave hogg ?
( @ stareagle ) may 5 , 2017we ll likely see trump denying he said what he said in this tweet later today , but in the meantime , let s pretend he wants universal coverage so we all can have a little hope back in our lives.featured photo by getty images