singapore ( reuters ) - singapore prime minister lee hsien loong said he was ready to step down in a couple of years time and his successor is likely already in the cabinet but a clear choice has yet to emerge in an interview with cnbc released on friday , lee , 65 , the son of singapore s founding father lee kuan yew , said a new election could be called any time before 2021 , when the current five-year parliamentary term ends .
i am ready , said lee , when asked if he was prepared to step down in the next couple of years .
but he said he needed to make sure there was a successor ready to take over , adding : there are people in the wings .
the question is , who it will be and that will need to be decided .
i think it s very likely that he would be in the cabinet already but which one , well that would take a while to , to account , lee said when asked he was close to finding a successor .
lee was speaking ahead of a visit to the united states starting sunday - including a meeting with u.s. president donald trump at the white house .
local media and analysts say finance minister heng swee keat and chan chun sing , a former army chief and a minister in the prime minister s office , are among potential successors .
deputy prime minister tharman shanmugaratnam could be a candidate , although he has repeatedly said he does not want the job and he would be a surprise choice because he is a member of the minority ethnic indian community .
singapore s leader since independence has always been a member of the majority chinese community .
questions about succession in the wealthy southeast asian city state - which has been governed by the people s action party since independence in 1965 - came into focus when lee , who has twice survived cancer , took ill during a televised speech last year and stumbled at a podium .
doctors subsequently said there were no serious concerns .
lee kuan yew s successor , goh chok tong , was identified at least five years in advance while the current leader , who first entered politics in 1984 , was also groomed for the position long before he took office in 2004 .
[ nl8n1b30b4 ] prime minister lee said he was saddened by a feud with his siblings which played out in the public earlier this year over the fate of lee kuan yew s family home .
[ nl3n1jv06p ] the matter is in abeyance .
i m not sure if it s solved , lee said in the cnbc interview , adding he and his siblings had not recently communicated .
lee hsien yang and sister lee wei ling accused their elder brother of abusing state power to try to save the house as a historic monument in defiance of his father s wishes .
[ nl4n1kr04a ] the prime minister called for an extraordinary special sitting of parliament in july and subsequently said that debate failed to find any substantiated evidence of abuse of power .
he has said the government must decide what to do with the property .
perhaps one day when emotions have subsided , some movement will be possible .
these things take time , lee said .