ahhhh .social justice rears its ugly head in the transgender department .
degendered facilities are the new thing for campuses women who don t want to pee with guys are just out of luck how about social justice for women who do not want to share a public bathroom with men ?
now that s justice ! a new york city college has responded to transgender students who vandalized bathrooms by rewarding them with campus-wide degendered facilities.bill mea , acting president of cooper union , sent an email march 18 informing the campus community of the new restrooms , which will only be identified as restroom with urinals and stalls , restroom with only stalls , and restroom single occupancy .
we have always been ahead of our time and we must continue being leaders on issues of social justice , mea said .
we , who are in positions of power , have the obligation to not only stand with those without power , but to stand in front of them , clearing a path for them to walk .
i can not change the outside world and how it treats transgender and gender non-conforming people , but i can change the cooper union environment to help everyone feel safe when they are inside our buildings .
the school president then appeared to make a veiled threat of disciplinary action for individuals who publicly protest his decision .
i also ask that none of us practice gender policing , where we attempt to restrict someone from using the same restroom we are using or make them feel uncomfortable for doing so , mea said .
if you feel uncomfortable sharing a restroom , then the single-occupancy restrooms will now be available to you .
the website insider higher ed reported thursday that cooper union may be the first college to completely eliminate gender distinctions in bathrooms .
the process began two years ago when students removed bathroom signs and replaced them with banners reading bathroom or degendered .
mea , who left the signs down in order to observe how students reacted , told the website that resistance was relegated to a handful of alumni .
i think you ll begin seeing this more and more , mea said .
we here in new york city , we have the support of our mayor and the support of our city .
that allows us that opportunity to be more expansive , but obviously there may be less of an opportunity where other colleges are located .
doulos christou , a reader at the education watchdog the college fix , said mea s decision has much more to do with control than supporting those without power .
here s what the [ lgbt ] agenda is really about , said christou on friday .
demanding tolerance gave way to demanding recognition , which gave way to demanding equality , which is now giving way to demanding superiority .
we ve written numerous things about this controversy and feel strongly about keeping the bathrooms segregated .
one of the best arguments for this : what s so wrong with transgender bathrooms ?
this guy has the awesome answer ! read more : wnd