the hague ( reuters ) - a former bosnian croat military commander swallowed what he said was poison in a u.n. war crimes courtroom on wednesday and died shortly after losing an appeal against his 20-year prison term .
slobodan praljak s apparent courtroom suicide , which was broadcast on a video feed , came in the final minutes of the last judgment at the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia , which closes next month after 24 years .
the white-bearded praljak , 72 , was taken to hospital after drinking from a flask or glass as an icty judge read out appeals rulings against him and five other convicted bosnian croat war criminals , tribunal spokesman nenad golcevski said .
i just drank poison , the ex-general told the stunned court .
i am not a war criminal .
i oppose this conviction .
after gulping down the drink , he sat back down and slumped in his chair , said a lawyer who was in the courtroom at the time .
praljak drank a liquid in court and quickly fell ill , golcevski said .
he was treated by tribunal medical staff , but passed away today at the hmc hospital in the hague , he said .
presiding judge carmel agius hastily suspended the hearings and the courtroom was declared a crime scene by dutch authorities .
as a forensic investigation got under way , the chamber was sealed off and the public told to leave .
don t take away the glass !
agius said , instructing the guards to lower blinds and block a glass-partition separating the court from the public .
in the chaotic moments that followed , guards and paramedics raced in and out of the courtroom , and ambulances sped away .
croatian prime minister andrej plenkovic , whose country was the patron of separatist croat forces in bosnia s 1992-95 war , said he regretted praljak s death and offered condolences to his family .
his act tells the most about deep ethical injustice toward the six bosnian croats and the croatian people .
the icty upheld on appeal praljak s conviction on charges of crimes against humanity over persecution , murders and expulsions of bosnian muslims from territory captured by nationalist bosnian croats and the brutal imprisonment of 1,000 muslims .
a reading of the judgment , which was also ruling on appeals against convictions and sentences against five other bosnian croat convicts , resumed more than two hours after praljak drank the apparent poison .
the incident upstaged the appeals rulings , which were important for croatia - it suspended a session of parliament so lawmakers could follow the hearing .
in the southern bosnian town of mostar , where bosnian croats and muslims fought each other in the war and now co-exist in an uneasy peace , cafes closed to avoid incidents .
praljak was acquitted of some charges of wanton destruction related to the bosnian croat militia s shelling of mostar s iconic , ottoman-era old bridge because the judges ruled that it had been a legitimate military target .
about a thousand bosnian croats gathered in a mostar square late on wednesday to light candles in support of praljak .
a mass in his honor was held in a packed catholic cathedral , where churchgoers draped themselves in croatian flags .
i came here to support our generals and pay respect to general praljak who could not bear injustice and made his final verdict .
he is our pride and hero , said darko drmac , a bosnian croat war veteran .
fikret kurtic , a mostar muslim who was detained in a croat-run detention center during the war , said the verdict could not change the past but may serve as an example for others in this divided country that crimes can not go unpunished .
kasim brkovic , an unemployed bosnian muslim war veteran and former prisoner , said : the same people are in power today and we still live in a camp , it s just they don t beat us anymore .
the icty also upheld the convictions of jadranko prlic , former political leader of the breakaway bosnian croat statelet during the war , along with military and police figures bruno stojic , milivoj petrovic , valentin coric and berislav pusic .
judges ruled there had been a criminal conspiracy , with the involvement of croatia s government under then-president franjo tudjman - who died in 1999 - aimed at the ethnic cleansing of the muslim population of parts of bosnia to cement croat domination there .
the defendants on wednesday received sentences ranging from 10 to 25 years .
the decision can not be appealed .
the chairman of post-war bosnia s shaky , muslim-serb-croat presidency , dragan covic , a croat , said : ( praljak ) showed before the whole world what kind of sacrifice he is ready to make to prove that he is not a war criminal .
previously , two defendants awaiting their icty trial , both serbs , committed suicide by hanging themselves in their u.n. cells , according to court documents .
slavko dogmanovic died in 1998 and milan babic was found dead in his locked cell in 2006 .
the icty indicted 161 suspects in all from bosnia , croatia , serbia , montenegro and kosovo in connection with atrocities in the ethnic wars there during the 1990s .
of the 83 convicted , more than 60 of them were ethnic serbs .
the court s lead suspect , former yugoslav and serbian president slobodan milosevic , died of a heart attack in march 2006 months before a ruling in his genocide trial .
last week , former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic was convicted of genocide , war crimes and crimes against humanity for mass killings and expulsions of muslims and the siege of sarajevo , and sentenced to life in prison .
mladic s lawyers tried to delay the verdict mid-reading by saying he was too ill to continue , and mladic was then removed from the courtroom after shouting that judges were liars .