the breaking point is fast approaching in a divided america obama couldn t have hoped for a better outcome in the final year of his failed presidency .
americans fighting americans over race , religion and sexual orientation .
violence and threats are being used against anyone who disagrees with the left , while alinsky trained activists continue to be inspired by radicals like obama and funded by radicals like communist george soros .
the first meeting of portland state university s students for trump group was loudly interrupted and shut down by anti-trump protesters , who barged into the group s meeting on thursday evening.a video released by the students shows anti-trump protesters causing a significant disruption at the meeting , which was a closed event for members of the club.although the conversation was initially civil , it eventually progressed into name-calling and shouting .
an anti-trump protester threatened a student that was filming the scene : point that f * * king camera at me wait til that camera is not there do you want to get f * * ked up by a f * * king faggot ?
after a protester took to standing on top of a table to address the crowd , a pro-trump student suggested that starting a students against trump group would have been a more productive way to combat pro-trump students at psu .
the only way to combat this shit is to join an organization that has an anti-racist , anti-capitalist stance , another protester claimed .
you need to get out of the fucking way and let people of color let these people organize themselves .
despite the meeting being a closed event for the club , the protesters demanded the right to speak .
when a few pro-trump students tried to calm down a protester yelling from atop a table , another protester yelled , if you don t let her talk , i will f * * k shit up .
although the disruption primarily led to shouting and name-calling , there were some productive discussions that happened amongst the chaos .
one pro-trump student explained that his own parents had gone through a lot to immigrate legally : my family are immigrants , they paid thousands and thousands of dollars , they waited years .
i don t see why it s fair to let anyone we don t know who they are , they could be criminals , they could anything just waltz through the country with no repercussions .
although most listened respectfully as the student explained his support of trump , one student responded that he was disappointed that a minority could support trump : people of color trump supporters make me so sad .
via : breitbart news