nairobi ( reuters ) - the u.s. military did not kill any civilians when it accompanied somali forces on a deadly raid in august , u.s. africa command said late on wednesday , the first public statement on the findings from an investigation into the raid .
the two-paragraph statement referred to a joint raid by u.s. and somali troops on the village of bariire .
eyewitnesses told reuters that 10 civilians were killed and the military had been drawn into a local clan conflict .
the survivors and relatives of the dead said they wanted blood money and an apology .
the u.s. military denied that any civilians were killed , although it did not offer any details on the investigation .
the statement described the dead as enemy combatants and the military later said in a twitter message that they were members of al shabaab , the al-qaeda linked insurgency .
africa command did not provide any proof for their claim .
after a thorough assessment of the somali national army-led operation near bariire , somalia , on aug. 25 , 2017 and the associated allegations of civilian casualties , u.s. special operations command africa ( socaf ) has concluded that the only casualties were those of armed enemy combatants , the two paragraph statement read .
before conducting operations with partner forces , socaf conducts detailed planning and coordination to reduce the likelihood of civilian casualties and to ensure compliance with the law of armed conflict .
u.s. africa command and the department of defense take allegations of civilian casualties very seriously .
despite promising a public investigation , the embattled somali government has made no public statement on the raid , and some somali security officials said privately that it would not , for fear of alienating the powerful clan whose members were killed .
some somali security officials have suggested privately that the survivors and relatives had misrepresented the incident to try to get cash and political advantages for their clan .
the united states has stepped up operations in somalia this year after president donald trump loosened restrictions on the military in march .
a navy seal was killed there in may , the first u.s. combat casualty there since a blackhawk helicopter was shot down in 1993 .
the united states has also ramped up its use of air strikes , conducting twice as many strikes this year as last year .
somalia has been riven by civil war since 1991 .
it now has a weak , internationally-backed government , supported by african peacekeepers .