guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s federal auditor on tuesday said it will investigate a salary bonus the defense ministry gives to president jimmy morales that raises his earnings by more than a third , making him one of the best paid leaders in latin america .
the federal comptroller , which audits all government spending , said in a statement it had asked for information on the previously unknown 50,000 quetzals ( $ 7,300 ) bonus for extraordinary responsibility that is not officially part of the president s salary package .
defense minister william mansilla on tuesday confirmed that morales had since december 2016 received the payment , which lifts the president s salary to $ 27,400 a month .
the president didn t ask for it .
instead , it was a group decision by the army , mansilla said in a press conference .
a technical board of auditors determined the bonus .
the revelation of the unusual salary perk comes at an awkward time for the beleaguered morales , who managed to retain his immunity from prosecution on monday .
congress voted overwhelmingly to protect him after the attorney general submitted a request to investigate morales over suspected financing irregularities during his 2015 election campaign .
[ nl2n1ls1ev ] last month , guatemala s attorney general and the u.n.-backed international commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) jointly sought to investigate morales , a former comedian , over the illegal financing allegation .
two days later , morales declared the head of the u.n. body persona non grata .
under the leadership of ivan velasquez , a veteran colombian prosecutor , cicig has caused problems for morales , first investigating his son and brother then aiming at him .
the defense ministry on tuesday posted on its website documents , dated jan. 1 , 2016 , that detailed the payment to the president and various other military officials .
the considerations ( for the bonus ) were due to his position and the risks and dangers that ( morales ) undertakes , mansilla said in explaining the army s reasoning for the payment .
former presidents alfonso portillo and alvaro colom told reuters they had not received such a bonus .
the president s office did not respond to requests for comment .
the salary bonus means that morales earns 70 percent more than chilean leader michelle bachelet and 130 percent more than mexican president enrique pena nieto , two of the region s best paid top officials .
the bonus is also 90 times the $ 300 minimum wage in guatemala , where 60 percent of the population lives in poverty .