washington ( reuters ) - when president barack obama entered the white house in 2009 , the federal appeals court based in virginia was known as one of the most conservative benches in the country .
two obama terms later , democratic appointees hold a 10-5 majority on the 4th u.s .
circuit court of appeals , a panel of which issued a groundbreaking ruling this april backing transgender rights .
factbox : cases where obama judges left a mark the shift to the left on the court , which hears cases from virginia , maryland , west virginia , south carolina and north carolina , highlights a widely overlooked aspect of obama ’ s legacy .
his appointments of dozens of judges to the country ’ s influential federal appeals courts have tilted the judiciary in a liberal direction that will influence rulings for years to come and be further entrenched if democrat hillary clinton wins this november ’ s presidential election .
more from reuters election 2016 live : who is the better president for minority voters ?
bolivia says deputy interior minister killed after kidnap by miners judge orders search of clinton emails from 2012 benghazi attack by september 13 a reuters review of rulings by the courts over the last two years shows obama ’ s appointees to the appeals courts have influenced major legal battles likely to ultimately reach the supreme court .
obama-appointed judges have voted in favor of broad civil rights protections , major obama administration regulations and gun regulations and against republican-backed voting rules .
when seeking to appoint judges , the white house has said it is looking for highly credentialed lawyers reflecting the diversity of u.s. society .
conservative critics say he has picked judges who are willing to circumvent the law in order to reach preferred outcomes .
“ there ’ s no question president obama ’ s nominees have absolutely been part of his effort to transform the country and move it dramatically to the left , ” said carrie severino , a conservative legal activist .
white house spokesman eric schultz said in a statement that obama ’ s appointees “ all share impeccable qualifications , unquestioned integrity , and a steadfast commitment to equal justice under the law. ” the appeals courts are the first stop for any case appealed from the lower u.s. district courts and often have the last word .
the next and final destination is the supreme court , but it hears fewer than 100 cases a year .
the appeals courts handle 35,000 a year according to the administrative office of the u.s. courts .
of the 13 appeals courts , nine now have a majority of democratic appointees , compared with one when obama took office , according to research carried out by russell wheeler , a scholar at the brookings institution , a washington think tank .
in addition to appointing two supreme court justices and dozens of district court judges , obama appointments now make up 55 of the current 168 appeals court judges , according to the judiciary .
obama ’ s current total of 323 district and appeals court appointments , most of them district court judges , is similar to the tallies achieved by other recent two-term presidents .
the regional appeals courts are currently more powerful than ever because of the vacancy on the supreme court caused by the death of justice antonin scalia , which has left the court divided equally between liberals and conservatives .
if the ideologically divided court splits 4-4 , the appeals court ruling is left intact .
such an outcome occurred four times in the supreme court term that recently ended .
scalia ’ s seat is unlikely to be filled until next year due to political opposition from republicans in the senate , which has the job of confirming nominees .
one of the most dramatic transformations has been on the 4th circuit .
in july 2007 , 18 months before obama became president , republican appointees held a 7-5 majority .
through a mix of seven obama appointments and retirements , democratic appointees now hold sway .
in april , a three-judge panel featuring two obama appointees ruled in favor of a transgender student seeking to use a boys ’ restroom .
the two obama appointees were in the majority , with a republican appointee dissenting .
three months later , a three-judge panel featuring two obama appointees and one judge appointed by democratic president bill clinton struck down north carolina ’ s strict voter identification law on a 3-0 vote , saying the state legislature had enacted it with discriminatory intent .
it is one of several recent court rulings pushing back on republican-led efforts to impose new voting regulations , which democrats say is intended to deter minorities from voting .
caroline fredrickson , president of liberal legal group the american constitution society , said republican-appointed judges are generally less likely to rule in favor of broad interpretations of civil rights .
the transgender case would “ very likely ” have come out differently with a more conservative panel of judges , she said .
the federal appeals court in washington , d.c. is another where the balance of power has been flipped .
often known in legal circles as the second highest court in the land because it hears important cases concerning the federal government , the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit was dominated by conservatives 6-3 when obama took office .
obama was able to force through four appointments after a major showdown in the senate .
the court now has a 7-4 split in favor of democratic appointees .
in june , an obama appointee , judge sri srinivasan , cast the deciding vote as a three-judge panel upheld the federal communication commission ’ s so-called “ net neutrality ” regulation .
srinivasan joined a clinton appointee in the majority .
a judge appointed by republican president ronald reagan dissented .
the regulation is widely opposed by the telecommunications industry and backed by digital rights advocates .
obama ’ s appointees do sometimes vote in favor of conservative outcomes .
paul watford , a judge on the san francisco-based 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals , has on several occasions reached a different conclusion to his more liberal colleagues .
in one recent decision from aug. 15 , he dissented along with conservative judges when the court ruled that a death row inmate should be able to file a new appeal .
when announcing three of his nominees to the appeals court in washington at a white house press conference in june 2013 , obama rejected any notion that they were political pawns , emphasizing their strong credentials .
“ these are no slouches .
these are no hacks , ” he said .