washington ( reuters ) - a u.s. navy destroyer sailed near islands claimed by china in the south china sea on tuesday , three u.s. officials told reuters , prompting anger in beijing , even as president donald trump s administration seeks chinese cooperation in reining in north korea s missile and nuclear programs .
the operation was the latest attempt to counter what washington sees as beijing s efforts to limit freedom of navigation in the strategic waters .
but it was not as provocative as previous ones carried out since trump took office in january .
the officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , said the chafee , a guided-missile destroyer , carried out normal maneuvering operations that challenged excessive maritime claims near the paracel islands , among a string of islets , reefs and shoals over which china has territorial disputes with its neighbors .
china s defense ministry said on wednesday that a warship , two fighter jets and a helicopter had scrambled to warn the u.s. ship away , adding it had infringed upon china s sovereignty and security with its provocation .
china would further strengthen its naval and air defenses , the ministry said .
we demand the u.s. side earnestly take steps to correct its mistakes , it added .
speaking earlier at a daily news briefing in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said china had lodged stern representations with the united states , and reiterated that the paracels were chinese territory .
china will continue to take resolute measures to protect chinese sovereign territory and maritime interests .
china urges the u.s. to conscientiously respect china s sovereign territory and security interests , conscientiously respect the efforts regional countries have made to protect peace and stability in the south china sea , and stop these wrong actions .
next month , trump makes his first visit to asia as president , including a stop in china , which he has been pressuring to do more to rein in north korea .
china is north korea s neighbor and biggest trading partner .
unlike in august , when a u.s. navy destroyer came within 12 nautical miles of an artificial island built up by china in the south china sea , officials said the destroyer on tuesday sailed close to but not within that range of the islands .
twelve nautical miles mark internationally recognized territorial limits .
sailing within that range is meant to show the united states does not recognize territorial claims .
the pentagon did not comment directly on the operation , but said the united states carried out regular freedom-of-navigation operations and would continue to do so .
china s claims in the south china sea , through which about $ 5 trillion in shipborne trade passes each year , are contested by brunei , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and vietnam .
experts and some u.s. officials have criticized former president barack obama for potentially reinforcing china s claims by sticking to innocent passage , in which a warship effectively recognized a territorial sea by crossing it speedily without stopping .
the u.s. military has a long-standing position that its operations are carried out throughout the world , including in areas claimed by allies , and that they are separate from political considerations .
the united states has said it would like to see more international participation in freedom-of-navigation operations in the south china sea .
trump s trip to asia will likely be dominated by the north korean nuclear threat .
he will also visit south korea , japan , vietnam and the philippines .
in recent weeks , north korea has launched two missiles over japan and conducted its sixth nuclear test , all in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions , and may be fast advancing toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
trump s visit to china will reciprocate a trip to the united states made in april by chinese president xi jinping .
the u.s. president s attempts to get chinese help with north korea have met with limited success so far , but he has gone out of his way to thank xi for his efforts .