nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan police shot dead two people and wounded a third when a crowd tried to storm a police station during an opposition protest against a looming presidential vote re-run , a senior official said .
around 20 youths attempted to take over the station during an otherwise peaceful rally in the town of bondo in the southwest county of siaya , forcing officers to open fire , county commissioner josephine onunga said by phone .
police also used teargas to break up small demonstrations in kenya s three main cities - kisumu , the capital and the port of mombasa - defying a government ban on rallies in city centers .
hospital authorities said 20 people were injured in kisumu , an opposition stronghold .
kenya s supreme court nullified the presidential election in august , citing procedural irregularities and voiding the victory of president uhuru kenyatta .
the ruling opening the way to a repeat vote on oct. 26 .
but opposition leader raila odinga has refused to take part , saying the re-run should not happen until wide-ranging reforms are brought in to prevent another failed vote .
the election board has said the polls will go ahead anyway , pitting kenyatta against six other candidates , none of whom polled more than 1 percent in august .
odinga told reuters that he might consider returning to the supreme court for clarification on whether the oct. 26 poll was legal .
as far as we are concerned , that ( original supreme court ) ruling is still valid , odinga said during a visit to london .
what we are demanding is that the electoral commission should respect the supreme court and carry out elections in accordance with the ruling .
he supported protesters right to demonstrate , he said , but has so far stopped short of calling people onto the streets himself .
in nairobi , opposition legislators were repeatedly teargassed as they tried to drive into the city center .
we are asking uhuru s government to ... let us protest in peace and truth and we are saying we want change and we do not want uhuru and his people , said protester mellen kirumbo .
in kisumu , protesters reacted angrily when police turned water cannon on them to prevent them from entering the city center .
our demonstrations have a ( valid ) basis and are peaceful , said odinga supporter hezron tirus aloyo .
we condemn the directive ... on the limitation of our rights to demonstrate .
the jaramogi oginga odinga hospital in kisumu , named after odinga s father , said it had admitted 20 patients injured in the demonstrations .
three had gunshot wounds , said superintendent juliana otieno .
martin kimani , the director of the kenyan government s national counter terrorism centre , said the authorities were trying to maintain law and order .
a lot of those provocations or demonstrations taking place are an attempt to create the appearance of a crisis , he said .