hanoi ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump said on sunday he was prepared to mediate between claimants to the south china sea , where five countries contest china s sweeping claims to the busy waterway .
trump was speaking in vietnam , which has become the most vocal opponent of china s claims and its construction and militarization of artificial islands in the sea .
about $ 3-trillion in goods passes through the sea each year .
if i can help mediate or arbitrate , please let me know , trump said in comments at a meeting in hanoi with vietnam s president , tran dai quang .
trump acknowledged that china s position on the south china sea was a problem .
i m a very good mediator and arbitrator , he said .
president quang said vietnam believed in handling disputes on the south china sea through peaceful negotiations and on the basis of international laws - which vietnam says nullify china s claims .
vietnam has reclaimed land around reefs and islets , but on nowhere near the same scale as china .
brunei , malaysia , the philippines and taiwan also have claims in the sea .
since philippine president rodrigo duterte has grown closer to china , vietnam has emerged as china s main challenger in the region .
in july , china pressured vietnam to stop oil drilling in a disputed area , taking relations to a low .
relations have since improved and chinese president xi jinping is visiting hanoi later on sunday .
the south china sea was discussed in beijing on an earlier leg of trump s 12-day asian tour and u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said the united states and china had a frank exchange of views .
the united states has angered china with freedom of navigation patrols close to chinese-controlled islands .
from vietnam , trump left for the philippines - the last stop on his tour - for a meeting with leaders of the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
in august , the foreign ministers of the southeast asian countries and china adopted a negotiating framework for a code of conduct in the south china sea , although critics see it as a tactic to buy china time to consolidate its power .
the framework seeks to advance a 2002 declaration of conduct ( doc ) of parties in the south china sea , which has mostly been ignored by claimant states , particularly china , which has built seven man-made islands in disputed waters , three of them equipped with runways , surface-to-air missiles and radars .
all parties say the framework is only an outline for how the code will be established and critics raise doubts about how effective the pact will be .
the framework will be endorsed by china and asean members at a summit in manila on monday , a diplomat from one of the regional bloc s countries said .
the next step is for asean and china to start formal consultations and negotiations for the actual code of conduct , and the earliest that talks on this can start is february 2018 , the diplomat said .
relations between vietnam and the united states have blossomed in the decades since their war ended in 1975 .
a recent survey put the favorability of the united states at 84 percent among vietnamese .
but vietnam s trade surplus remains an irritant for the trump administration .
at $ 32 billion last year , it was the sixth largest with the united states , though less than a tenth the size of china s. we want to get that straightened out very quickly , trump said at a meeting with prime minister nguyen xuan phuc .
vietnamese and u.s. companies signed memorandums of understanding on gas development and automobiles as well as aircraft engine purchase and support during trump s visit .
the value of the deals was unclear .