washington ( reuters ) - the chair of the house of representatives appropriations committee introduced a bill on wednesday that would channel $ 1 billion to revitalize battered coal-producing communities .
house appropriations chair hal rogers , a long-serving kentucky republican , said the reclaim act would provide support to coal-producing communities hit by the decline of the industry to redevelop their economies .
under the bill , which he introduced with both democrats and republicans from virginia , west virginia and pennsylvania , $ 1 billion would be released from the government ’ s abandoned mine lands ( aml ) program to help communities generate new economic activities .
“ many coal communities in appalachia simply do not have the resources to reclaim the abandoned mine sites within their borders , ” said rogers , who represents eastern kentucky ’ s coal-mining counties .
“ this bill allows these communities to be proactive in restoring these sites and utilize them to put our people back to work. ” the bill comes after months of talks with the obama administration , which last year proposed the power+ plan , a multibillion-dollar strategy to support the revitalization of coal country using unused funds from the aml , which consists of fees on coal companies collected over the years .
republican lawmakers had initially been reluctant to support the administration ’ s plan because they blamed its policies , including regulations forcing power plants to cut carbon emissions tied to burning coal , for the contraction in the coal industry that has seen some of its companies go bankrupt .
the bill reflects a few modifications to the white house proposal , including measures to compensate western states .
wyoming pays the most into the aml because it is still an active low-sulfur coal producer , yet most federal money would likely flow to older coal mining regions like appalachia .
a white house official said the reclaim act is consistent with the administration ’ s proposal .
“ the legislation introduced today would bring $ 1 billion in much needed investment to support abandoned mine land reclamation linked with economic development in struggling coal communities that badly need both , ” the official said .
representative matt cartwright , a pennsylvania democrat , said the bill will create new opportunities “ for the families that depended on mining jobs , benefits , and pensions that have disappeared as coal companies have closed their operations. ” local communities welcomed the bill and urged its swift passage .
“ this is what we ’ ve been waiting on .
this bill , and the money that could come from the bill into our local economies , could give us a little more security , ” said kimberly shepherd , a member of grass-roots group kentuckians for the commonwealth .