shawn helton 21st century wireit s a novel scene , even for america : president elect donald trump is facing an unprecedented wave of organized opposition prior to moving into the white house .
while the democratic party are hoping to leverage these street action into votes in 2017 and 2018 , the real strategy here seems to be about forging deeper narratives and creating a collective feeling of disenfranchisement among liberal millennial .
it may appear like a grassroots uprising , but upon closer inspection , there big money and big players behind it all.within 24 hours of the dramatic conclusion to 2016 presidential election on november 8th , highly organized flash mobs directed in part by the democratic party s leading community organizing digital platform , moveon.org ( funded by wall street billionaire and top clinton donor george soros ) spread rapidly throughout several cities across america including oakland , los angeles , new york and portland .
while vitriolic anti-trump dissent consumed some urban parts of the country , mainstream media outlets , as well as a column of hollywood celebrities and entertainers added to the disillusionment as they took to the airwaves and social media to express their shock and emotional fears that a trump presidency would be the end of the world , for some anyway.readers would not be amiss in questioning the true nature of the heavily coordinated color revolution-style moveon marches across america , as they reveal a much deeper social engineering agenda at play one that enlists a likely coalition comprised of corporate media outlets , silicon valley , along with hollywood together peddling a highly reactionary , if not incendiary political message.make no mistake : this is a well-financed and concerted attempt to further divide america along new cultural lines of identity a division which will eventually benefit the same elite establishment which both the popular left and the popular right believe they are currently railing against.let s review the impetus behind the anti-trump protests , before discussing the unusual nature of an outright rejection of the democratic process by organized oprotesters quietly nudged by hollywood and media operatives move on : a manufactured march on america for nearly a week , street protests have been promoted by the same mainstream news networks that had predicted a hillary clinton landslide only eight days ago.networks like cnn , msnbc , the new york times and the washington post are still reluctant to report how within hours of the election result , the soros-tied ngo moveon.org issued a press release calling for nationwide protests .
this was followed by petitions to abolish the electoral college .
in my first report discussing this potentially explosive situation unfolding across america , it was shown how moveon members had created more than 200 gatherings nationwide , with the number continuing to grow what this demonstrates more than anything is how the amalgamation of virtual community-based flash mobs and professional political agitators have been fostered by various democratic party ngo s since the early 2000 s not only through moveon.org , but also through democratic party affiliated foundations like answer coalition.in addition to soros s billions being poured into a near endless web of political front organization and change agent ngos , other wall street financial institutions have backed their favorites , like goldman sachs and others , sponsoring the hillary clinton campaign and maintaining strong stakes the clinton foundation as well as ties to clinton family in general .
in 2015 , the washington post reported that hillary rodham clinton and former president bill clinton earned in excess of $ 25 million for delivering 104 speeches since the beginning of 2014 , a huge infusion to their net worth as she was readying for a presidential bid .
here we see an example of the financial nexus formed between powerful players like soros , wall street s goldman sachs and america s progressive leftwing political establishment .
clearly , there is a high level agenda at work here , and you only need to follow the money to see who are the chief beneficiaries.see also : partners in crime : goldman sachs , the clintons & wall streetsome of the most notable uprisings in america include the designer social justice campaigns all of whom have george soros money behind them through a vast network of foundations and social front groups like the occupy movement ( aka ows ) in 2011 , as well as soros funded protests in ferguson , missouri in 2014 , and the black lives matter ( blm ) street action group this past year .
each of these have a common thread they have all evolved into some form of violent social unrest often steered by paid provocateurs .
media outlets generally do not like to cover this side of the events because it simply doesn t fit the favored left vs right narrative the media loves so much .
hence , most members of the public especially the protesters themselves have little or no idea what is driving street violence and the crisis narrative.one wonders whether soros an ideologue , or a business speculator ?
maybe both .
soros boast about taking down foreign nations and capitalizing on subsequent market tremors , but his conquests are certainly not limited to overseas targets.media manipulationin 2011 , the same year as the ows protests , it was reported that national public radio ( npr ) accepted a $ 1.8 million dollar grant from the george soros founded the open society institute rebranded as the open society foundations ( osf ) .
the ngo managed to gain even greater influence on npr s reportage .
below is a passage describing the soros funded impact on government project : npr is using the two-year grant as seed money to start a local-national initiative , known as the impact on government project .
eventually , the plan is to have two public radio reporters in every state keeping tabs on state government issues that are woefully under-reported by the media .
this is to be a multi-media project for radio , the web and social media .
many critics of the collaboration charged that npr joined the ranks of many other media outlets funded by soros .
according to the conservative watchdog , media research center there has been an additional $ 48 million taken by media outlets from soros tied ngo s since 2003 : it turns out that soros influence doesn t just include connections to top mainstream news organizations such as nbc , abc , the new york times and washington post .
it s bought him connections to the underpinnings of the news business .
the columbia journalism review , which bills itself as a watchdog and a friend of the press in all its forms , lists several investigative reporting projects funded by one of soros foundations .
in august of 2016 , it was reported that dcleaks.com which claims to be run by the same hackers who leaked a trove of e-mails from the democratic national committee ( dnc ) has published a 69-page report from osf in which the soros organization documents its plans to use the unrest following the death of freddie gray to accelerate the dismantling of structural inequality generated and maintained by local law enforcement , and that george soros s open society foundations approved a $ 650,000 dollar donation to blm : recognizing the need for strategic assistance , the u.s. programs board approved $ 650,000 in opportunities fund support to invest in technical assistance and support for the groups at the core of the burgeoning # blacklivesmatter movement .
additionally , here s a passage from the leaked osf documents that discusses the social engineering used to influence policy change : the latest example of black lives matter follows upon previous social movements that have taken very different paths , including the dreamers and occupy wall street , which call into question the role that philanthropy should play in supporting , encouraging , and/or building these social movements as they evolve to affect real policy change and sometimes though not always transition into longer-term institutions .
the end of result of the media manipulation and street actions driven by engineers like soros is that misinformed members of the public will exact violence against innocent bystanders.here s a youtube video depicting 49-year-old david wilcox being violently attacked by a mob ( following a minor traffic accident in chicago ) after he was labeled a white trump supporter https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=c7zeibncejahere s another video on youtube featuring a chicago tribune interview with a bruised and battered wilcox , days after a street mob attacked him warning : adult language please be advised : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=cr_17zcjlg8back in august , a wikileaks email dump revealed a message sent by george soros to then secretary of state hillary clinton .
in the email , soros himself gave explicit instructions on how to handle the social unrest occurring in albania in january of 2011 .
here s a passage of the soros message to clinton .
an important thing to remember to date , wikileaks findings have yet to be unproven : there are serious concerns about further unrest connected to a counter-demonstration to be organized by the governing party and a follow-up event by the opposition two days later to memorialize the victims , soros says .
the prospect of tens of thousands of people entering the streets in an already inflamed political environment bodes ill for the return of public order and the country s fragile democratic process , he adds .
i believe two things need to be done urgently , he adds .
1 .
bring the full weight of the international community to bear on prime minister berisha and opposition leader edi rama to forestall further public demonstrations and to tone down public pronouncements.2 .
appoint a senior european official as a mediator .
soros suggested three candidates : carl bildt , martti ahtisaari , and miroslav lajcak , saying all have strong connections to the balkans .
the us and the eu must work in complete harmony over this , but given albania s european aspirations the eu must take the lead , he stressed , adding that his foundation in tirana was monitoring the situation closely and can provide independent analysis of the crisis .
democracy alliance plots revengethe soros controlled ngo machine continued this week when it was revealed that the soros funded democracy alliance was set to retool those groups being used to rattle president-elect trump : george soros and other rich liberals who spent tens of millions of dollars trying to elect hillary clinton are gathering in washington for a three-day , closed door meeting to retool the big-money left to fight back against donald trump.the conference , which kicked off sunday night at washington s pricey mandarin oriental hotel , is sponsored by the influential democracy alliance donor club , and will include appearances by leaders of most leading unions and liberal groups , as well as darlings of the left such as house democratic leader nancy pelosi , sen. elizabeth warren and congressional progressive caucus co-chairman keith ellison , according to an agenda and other documents obtained by politico .
in an interesting twist , fox news revealed that a craigslist ad ( image , above ) found to be connected to the anti-trump protests may also be linked to a planned parenthood affiliate .
the following is a passage from that report : the craigslist ads read : stop trump up to $ 1500/week .
hiring immediately !
call today start tomorrow !
$ 15- $ 18 hourly rate + bonus + overtime up to 77 hours per week ! they were placed by a planned parenthood affiliate in major cities like boston , denver , columbus , philadelphia and pittsburgh right before the election to defeat the candidacy of donald trump .
however , most of them are still active on craigslist , fueling questions about whether the group is now among those feeding the post-election anti-trump protests across the country .
its no secret planned parenthood has taken a strong stance on trump s views of their organization , making it likely they would attempt to thwart the president-elect.fox news also mentioned that planned parenthood received $ 553.7 million in tax dollars last year , [ and ] had pledged to spend $ 30 million to defeat trump , according to rolling stone .
there is a decidedly edgy public persona of soros linked ngo s and their splinter protest groups such as blm , yet the mainstream media is soft on many of the various group s objectives .
in a ny times article this was recently confirmed as cat brooks , a co-founder of anti police-terror project , told a crowd in oakland on friday .
we need to be more than angry , we need to organize and funnel our anger into action .
polling america & the celebrity crisis post-trumpas 21wire previously outlined , there where great webs spun by think-tanks and media with regards to the statistical outcome of the 2016 presidential election in america : one of the great myths being spun by the establishment media was that donald trump had no support from women , latinos and blacks in the us .
as it turned out , this was a lie propagated in a failed attempt to margnalize republican voters and give a false impression of a liberal democratic mandate in america .
in the end trump gathered 29 % of latinos , 9 % of african americans and 49 % of college educated white women .
for months , mainstream media pundits and polls insisted that all of these demographics were exclusively for hillary clinton .
here s another look at the psychologist and internet radio personality kiki green , who passionately explains the symbiotic relationship between the democratic party , hollywood and the clinton campaign all who worked in concert to dupe certain groups into voting for hillary clinton warning : adult language please be advised : to top it off , actor robert deniro , who once played the politically obsessed character travis bickle in taxi driver , threatened to punch donald trump before the election , and is now said to be woefully depressed following the real estate mogul s historic win.here s deniro s cheap attempt at swaying voters a month before the us election .
watch as the actor name drops colin powell to somehow delegitimize trump .
powell of course was one of the neoconservative architects of the false wmd narrative that led to the iraq invasion in 2003 https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=gzhjpwbgm5sthe hollywood hits against trump haven t stopped there , over the past 24 hours , dreamworks animation ceo jeffrey katzenberg penned an open letter discussing the trump victory .
katzenberg himself was a seven-figure donor ( $ 1 million ) to the clinton friendly super pac priorities usa action .
here s a passage of katzenberg s piece published at the hollywood reporter : i have been involved in politics for more than 50 years , and this is certainly not the first time i ve been on the losing end .
it always hurts .
and this one maybe hurts more than the rest partly because we didn t really lose .
our side got more popular votes , while trump received fewer votes than mitt romney or john mccain .
the electoral college is how we choose presidents , and i ( mostly ) respect this .
but i hope everyone , including mr. trump , recognizes that this was not an election that , by any stretch , resulted in a mandate .
interestingly , katezenberg s emotive plea proved to be heavy-handed with the takeaway that trump really didn t win , as he explains his candidate clinton , didn t really lose the popular vote .
while its true , the clinton camp received a total of 62,522,062 to trump s 61,300,582 , some 1,221480 votes separate the pair across america it should also be mentioned that trump did far better in the all important swing-states , which statistically speaking , usually define most presidential elections.according to the cook political report , which provides up-to-date 2016 election analysis , trump s margin in swing-states was overwhelmingly in his favor with the president-elect garnering 22,055,535 to clinton s 21,181,776 throughout 13 swing-state totals .
the final swing-state tally gave trump an 873,759 votes more .
one other notable stat showed how clinton gained her vote total ( not mentioning the 14 cases of voter fraud reported ) , as it was hinged on one state , california .
in fact , clinton received 6,633,714 to trump s 3,541,015 in the highly democratic state that holds a population of 39.35 million according to census reports.so , just as a caveat to katzenberg s plea used to distort public opinion without california , a massively left-leaning state , clinton wouldn t be anywhere near trump s numbers .
like trump or not , he was a clear winner of 2016 and got votes where it counted the most .
programming protest ?
soros linked groups are distorting the public s perception with their organized color revolution-style protests .
( image source : the news at 9 ) color revolutions & smart mobs whether in the flesh , social media or through mainstream tv , the populace is subject to various forms of hyperreal propaganda around the global in many ways this is being used to push certain political regime changes and party objectives through the use of deceptive color revolutions and their many incarnations.in a recent article discussing how the pentagon reportedly paid pr firm bell pottinger $ 540 million to produce fake terror videos used to steer western political interests , we also explored the psychological aspect to social engineered color revolutions .
here s a passage from the 21wire report below : the scale of such us-sponsored social engineering projects are breathtaking .
in june of 2014 , in an article entitled , pentagon preparing for mass civil breakdown , by nafeez ahmed , published at the uk s guardian , we learned that : a new research programme is funding universities to model the dynamics , risks and tipping points for large-scale civil unrest across the world , under the supervision of various us military agencies .
the program was brought to fruition during the height of the banking crisis in 2008 , as ahmed points out , suggesting it was already in the works for some time and time was of the essence.the social science study may have been as big or bigger then the snowden documents on nsa bulk collection , where not only are americans being tracked but their behavior is being categorized , labeled and scrutinized , prompting those who value civl rights and privacy to question the ethics and morals of such a us government program .
the guardian article also outlined the type of militarized language used to describe civil movements promoting political change , ironically they used the ngo/us state department engineered uprising in egypt as a model for one social science study : among the projects awarded for the period 2014-2017 is a cornell university-led study managed by the us air force office of scientific research which aims to develop an empirical model of the dynamics of social movement mobilisation and contagions .
the project will determine the critical mass ( tipping point ) of social contagians by studying their digital traces in the cases of the 2011 egyptian revolution , the 2011 russian duma elections , the 2012 nigerian fuel subsidy crisis and the 2013 gazi park protests in turkey .
essentially , this is computer modelling of color revolutions over sees an expensive digital tool in the pentagon and the cia s regime change operations .
the blending of socially engineered political agitator mobs and color revolutions is becoming more and more imperceptible as any group-think meme can cause a sudden flash gathering for the cause of the day.in a book from 2011 written by susanne elizabeth shawyer entitled radical street theatre and the yippie legacy : a performance history of the youth international party , 1967 1968 , we gain a clearer perspective of the term smart mobs and the nature of these cross-platform gatherings : the potential for ideological uses of flash mobs soon became clear by autumn 2003 .
because of its original apolitical nature and network organization , the flash mob was easily appropriated for other means beyond random fun .
flash mobs were soon used for political or commercial end by those seeking to capitalize on the trendy cultural capital of flash mobs .
adding to that , shawyer cites author social science critic howard rheingold , who penned a book entitled smart mobs : the next social revolution in 2003 and continued to outline the nature of smart mobs : a smart mob may be composed of strangers who have no relationship to each other beyond their mutual connection to the network , yet this connection creates a virtual community and provides the opportunity for collective action .
taking the smart mob phenomena and grafting it onto the recent anti-trump riots in portland , oregon , we can see how a large block of people can become useful provocateurs , paid or otherwise .
portland riot are ngo s stirring the masses in america ?
( image source : thewashingtonpost ) according to the local portland nbc affiliate kgw : more than half of the anti-trump protesters arrested in portland didn t vote in oregon , according to state election records .
at least sixty-nine demonstrators either didn t turn in a ballot or weren t registered to vote in the state.kgw compiled a list of the 112 people arrested by the portland police bureau during recent protests .
those names and ages , provided by police , were then compared to state voter logs by multnomah county elections officials.records show 34 of the protesters arrested didn t return a ballot for the november 8 election .
thirty-five of the demonstrators taken into custody weren t registered to vote in oregon .
earlier this year , we discussed how political game changers had been targeting the trump campaign , as the george soros-funded democrat party-oriented advocacy group moveon.org and host of other splinter groups associated with black lives matter , played a large role in the chicago university student-organized shutdown at a trump campaign rally.since then , numerous protests and violent confrontations were organized , serving as a disruptive force during the us election cycle .
left-wing critics routinely cited donald trump as the reason for the all the high-profile confrontations , trying to rationalize how he is somehow attracting the flash mob when in reality the flash mobs are being organized via a few foundation-funded community organizing portals like moveon.org.the role of hollywood & media when you mix the hollywood molotov commentary with that of the socially engineered flash mob , you have a designer reality that big media uses to polarize the public over certain political outcomes , giving them the ability to blame any other group not associated with the group-think entity.media outlets have also played a role in perpetuating the mass victimization meme spread throughout america with headlines like anti-trump demonstrators say nationwide protests are just a taste of things to come , published at the washington post , bullying in the age of trump , published by the ny times , campuses confront hostile acts against minorities after donald trump s election , also published at the ny times all stories designed to create an emotional reaction rather than a rational one.in fact , there s been a wave of false claims levied at trump supporters as sanctuary sites are being rolled out on college campuses for those in need of trump recovery and now , reportedly new york city high school reportedly allowed their students to skip class tuesday to join protests at the trump tower despite objections from fellow educators , along with a lesson plan on trump s behavior.here are two youtube clips depicting celebrity meltdowns over trump s presidential win .
interestingly , the hollywood crisis on display below is designed to manipulate young americans taken in by the celebrity-generated drama more likely an attempt to graft psychological trauma onto an unsuspecting viewer https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=pjzoljzcvcwhttps : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=xlbnq5aeguythis definitely represents a low ebb in american culture , and in history too.read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe now & become a member @ 21wire.tv