new york ( reuters ) - one of the women who has accused former u.s. president bill clinton of sexual assault says she has agreed to work for an anti-clinton political group being formed by a former advisor to republican presidential candidate donald trump .
kathleen willey , a former white house volunteer who says bill clinton groped her in an oval office hallway in 1993 when she came to him tearfully seeking a paid job , said she had agreed to become a paid national spokeswoman for a group being created by roger stone .
stone , a republican strategist , said the group would become active should hillary clinton , bill clinton ’ s wife , win the democratic nomination in the 2016 race for the white house .
clinton is currently the front runner .
“ this gives me more of an opportunity to get this message out to young voters who weren ’ t even born or don ’ t even remember what happened and to the women who have suffered , ” willey told reuters .
willey said she will give interviews and speeches and appear in political advertisements to ensure the accusations remain part of the political discourse during the election campaign .
“ they ’ re going to be confronted every day , on radio , on television , on billboards , ” stone told reuters , referring to the clintons .
he said he had reached a verbal agreement with willey but cautioned that the group was still in the planning stages .
spokesmen for hillary and bill clinton did not respond to questions about willey .
stone ’ s political action committee , which can raise virtually unlimited funds to advocate for or against candidates , was originally created last year under the name women against hillary .
it was renamed in january as the rape accountability project for education pac , or rape pac .
in a 1998 deposition , clinton “ emphatically ” denied willey ’ s accusation he groped her , describing her as having “ been through a lot ” in reference to her family ’ s financial woes and her husband ’ s suicide on the day willey says her encounter with clinton happened .
clinton has admitted having extra-marital affairs with two other women : monica lewinsky , a white house intern , and gennifer flowers , a singer and actor from his home state of arkansas , but he and his lawyers have said accusations by other women are false .
it ’ s not clear whether stone ’ s group will resonate with voters .
a reuters/ipsos poll in january found that a majority of the public , including 68 percent of democrats and 50 percent of republicans , thought that bill clinton ’ s past sexual misconduct “ made no difference ” in the current race .
among women , 56 percent said it did not matter , while another 21 percent said it would hurt hillary clinton ’ s chances of winning the election .
several republican candidates , particularly trump , have reminded voters of the allegations while campaigning .
the clintons and their staff have dismissed this as dirty politics .
hillary clinton ’ s decision to advocate for victims of sexual assault has persuaded some of her husband ’ s other accusers , including juanita broaddrick and paula jones mcfadden , to wade into the political season .
broaddrick and willey say that clinton , who has said victims of sexual assault have the “ right to be believed , ” is being hypocritical by doubting her husband ’ s accusers .
when asked about the accusations by broaddrick , jones mcfadden and willey at a campaign event in new hampshire in december , hillary clinton replied that people who say they were sexually assaulted should be “ believed at first until they are disbelieved based on evidence. ” stone released a book last year called “ the clintons ’ war on women , ” for which willey wrote the foreword .
after leaving trump ’ s campaign , stone created a pro-trump political action committee , the committee to restore america ’ s greatness .
he says he remains friendly with trump .
trump himself , angered at hillary clinton calling him sexist , described bill clinton as “ one of the great women abusers of all time ” and hillary clinton his “ enabler ” at a campaign event last month .
a spokeswoman for trump , who is barred by federal election commission rules from coordinating with super pacs , did not respond to questions .
stone has also helped to set up an online fundraising page to help raise money to pay for willey ’ s mortgage , he said .
she said she has been in financial difficult since her husband ’ s suicide and is facing foreclosure on her virginia home this month .
( reporting by jonathan allen , editing by ross colvin ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .