( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and republican candidate donald trump are in a tight race ahead of the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election .
following is a roundup of wall street ’ s take on the likely outcome of the u.s. elections .
analysts still expect a clinton win , but with a lower probability after the fbi revealed it is examining newly found emails related to clinton 's use of a private server while she was secretary of state .
( reut.rs/2evjsek ) prior to this revelation , analysts were largely focused on the likelihood – albeit a small one – of a democratic sweep of the white house , senate and house of representatives this election , and the implications of such a scenario on financial markets .
( reut.rs/2fciz2o ) more coverage : bit.ly/2dogcoe tina fordham , chief global political analyst , citigroup “ our probability of a 75 pct probability of a clinton victory remains unchanged due to our longstanding caution over the risks of black swans , but these developments ( fbi ’ s latest announcement on clinton email probe ) have added a significant obstacle to the clinton campaign , and are likely to further dent voter confidence. ” “ the fbi announcement could increase the risk that if trump loses he does not accept the result , as he has threatened .
if a clinton victory transpires and she presides over a republican-controlled or divided congress , the risk of continuous investigations and future impeachment risk is non-negligible. ” shawn golhar , head of public policy research , barclays capital “ while the fbi director ’ s letter may drive reluctant gop voters to the polls and convince some remaining undecided voters to support donald trump , it is unclear if this will sway the election enough for trump , given the democratic electoral firewall , early voting indications , and trump ’ s lack of a voter turnout campaign. ” “ the 2016 elections continue to have two tail end risks : donald trump wins , or the democrats sweep the white house and both chambers of congress .
friday ’ s announcement will likely increase trump ’ s chances of winning and whittle down the already slim chances of a democratic sweep. ” alec phillips , u.s .
political economist , goldman sachs “ the probability implied by online prediction markets that sec .
clinton wins the white house has declined over the last several days , from between 80 pct and 90 pct in most markets over the last couple of weeks , to between 64 pct and 75 pct as of november 1 ... that said , secretary clinton is still seen by prediction markets to be twice as likely to win the election as mr. trump. ” “ polls have tightened in the u.s. presidential election ...
however , even after adjusting sec .
clinton ’ s lead in state polls for her diminished margin nationally , she still appears likely to win more than the 270 electoral votes needed to clinch the white house. ” “ as a starting point , note that the reliably democratic states that sec .
clinton currently leads by at least mid-single digits are worth 263 electoral votes .
to reach 270 , she must add to this north carolina ( 15 evs , clinton leads by around 2pp ) , colorado ( 9 evs , clinton leads by 1-2pp ) ; and/or nevada and the 2nd congressional district of maine ( 6 evs plus 1 ev , clinton leads by around 1pp in both ) . ” “ by contrast , mr. trump has a solid lead in states worth 186 evs ; to reach 270 he would need to add to this arizona ( 11 evs , trump leads by around 1pp ) , florida ( 29 evs , trump leads by around 1pp ) , ohio ( 18 evs , trump leads by around 2pp ) , plus colorado , nevada , and north carolina , or some other combination that scores electoral votes even deeper into democratic territory. ” “ this is still a significant polling deficit for mr. trump to overcome in a large number of states , particularly in contrast to sec .
clinton , who simply needs to win one of the very competitive states she currently leads ( colorado , nevada , or north carolina ) and maintain her sizable lead in the others to win. ” stephen gallagher , americas head of research , societe generale “ our baseline outcome is for secretary clinton to win the 2016 u.s. presidential election .
donald trump ’ s chances are modest but still viable .
the latest fbi interest in emails demonstrates that , ‘ it isn ’ t over till it ’ s over. ’ ” “ traditionally , the losing candidate in a race concedes on the basis of incoming results , and that call is typically an early morning exercise .
the challenge for 2016 is trump ’ s promise to maintain the suspense .
without a concession , markets and general public may presume the outcome on the basis of results , but difficult to confirm until states certify the results. ” thomas block , washington policy strategist , fundstrat global advisors “ fundamentals continue to point to a clinton victory with 75 percent chances of a clinton/kaine win , but margins are likely to be closer in key swing states .
however , trump surprised and outperformed in primaries , and with recent events impossible to capture in polling , nothing is certain . ”