hardcore , unconventional , conservative and badass artist sabo has been taking his message to the streets for several years .
i had a lengthy phone conversation with him last year and after i hung up the phone , i had the same kind of feeling i had after meeting andrew breitbart .
like andrew breitbart , sabo s not fighting a conventional war against the left , he s studied them , he knows the dirty tactics they use to win and he s determined to beat them at their own game , even if it means shocking a few americans along the way .
sabo never got to meet andrew breitbart , but always wanted to , as he recalls here : now a thing about me was i d spent a good three years trying to get sober .
in that time i did everything i could to stay the hell away from politics .
it was the most peaceful three years of my life .
unfortunately during those three years guys like glenn beck and andrew breitbart were really picking up steam .
so , because of my absence from the political scene i didn t really know much about them .
and what little i did know about glenn beck i didn t really like .
i remember friends would try turning me on to him but i wasn t into his delivery , too loud , too passionate .
not my deal .
sadly andrew passed away about the time i decided to get back into the political fray .
i never had the privilege to meet him .
everyone says we d of really gotten along .
i did however get to meet his crew and they were all stand up people.glenn beck interviewed sabo in 2015 when he was still keeping his face hidden from the public : one of sabo s most popular pieces of work was his badass representation of ted cruz who he wholeheartedly supported for president.during the campaign , sabo came after hillary and bernie sanders pretty hard .
he focused on plastering his hard-hitting posters in areas where fundraisers or events for bernie or hillary were taking place .
sabo wanted to make sure the american public saw hillary as he saw hillary : it took him a while to come around to donald trump , but eventually he did.sabo s controversial artwork can be found on posters , t-shirts and bumper stickers at his online store : unsavoryagents.com here s a video of sabo replacing a sign in a park bench in la with his own unique printed message .
notice the guy smoking a crack pipe on the bench the entire time.in 2014 , sabo got a little visit from the secret service over his controversial posts on twitter .
he certainly didn t handle the interview in the way most americans would have .
: sabo will be on fox news tucker carlson show tonight at 9 pm est .
he ll likely discuss the artwork that he plastered all over la in advance of the oscars last night.here are a few of the posters liberal actors found when they arrived on the red carpet .
we can promise you one thing it won t be an interview you ll want to miss