johannesburg ( reuters ) - south african banking stocks rallied on tuesday , buoyed by optimism that the newly elected leader of the ruling african national congress will push through policies aimed at putting the economy on a stronger footing .
south africa s deputy president cyril ramaphosa - a darling of markets - narrowly beat former cabinet minister nkosazana dlamini-zuma in monday s vote , marking a pivotal moment for the party that launched black-majority rule under nelson mandela s leadership 23 years ago .
as anc leader , ramaphosa , a 65-year-old union leader turned businessman , is likely to become the next president after elections in 2019 because of his party s electoral dominance .
ratings agency moody s said ramaphosa s victory opened up tentative prospects of a policy shift and rise in business confidence that could reverse the gradual deterioration in south africa s credit fundamentals .
ramaphosa , a former chairman of africa s biggest telecoms operator mtn group , is seen by business leaders as well placed to turn around an economy .
south africa s gdp is estimated to grow by less than a percent this year , while the unemployment rate is at near records just shy of 28 percent .
in an open letter , mike brown , the chief executive of south africa s no.4 bank , nedbank , urged ramaphosa to immediately address governance failures in state-owned companies and ensure that the country retains the last sovereign investment grade from moody s. it is important that we have stable and rational policies , creating an environment that encourages growth for businesses and individuals , brown said .
ramaphosa s election victory over dlamini-zuma , who was backed by ex-husband president jacob zuma , put shares in banks , considered the barometer of both economic and political sentiment , back in demand .
in afternoon trade , the blue-chip stock index , the jse top-40 , added one percent to 51,601 with banks on top of the gainers list .
the banking index rose nearly six percent with firstrand , the largest lender by market value , surging more than seven percent .
government bonds firmed , with the yield on the benchmark instrument due in 2026 falling 16 basis points to 8.695 percent .
a local business lobby group , business leadership south africa welcomed the election of ramaphosa , saying it gave him a chance to address inequality , unemployment and poverty .
for this to happen , we require regulatory certainty and policy stability that will accelerate and deepen transformation , said blsa , which is composed of some of the biggest and most influential names in corporate south africa .
another key issue facing the anc s new leader is policy uncertainty in south africa s mining industry , where companies are challenging a requirement to increase black ownership of firms in the sector to 30 percent from 26 percent .
the sector is a major employer and contributed 7.7 percent to gross domestic product in 2016 .
the sector also accounts for 25 percent of exports in africa s most industrialized economy .
analysts at u.s. bank jp morgan raised their economic growth forecast for next year to 1.4 percent from one percent , prompted by ramaphosa s election .
the forecast change largely rests on a lesser purchasing power drag on consumers , as outlined below , and perhaps a modest resumption in the capex cycle , the analysts said in a note .
flag-bearer the rand currency retreated on tuesday from a nine-month high notched up in the previous session .
at 1107 gmt , the rand was 0.2 percent weaker against the dollar at 12.7950 rand .
expectations that ramaphosa would win the anc race had pushed the rand to 12.5200 per dollar on monday , its firmest since march 27 before a cabinet reshuffle by zuma rocked markets and triggered credit ratings downgrades to junk .
ramaphosa will be the anc s flag-bearer in the 2019 national election , but will have to contend with allies of his defeated rival , dlamini-zuma , in his leadership team .
some investors were worried that ramaphosa may not be able to push through policy changes because the anc s top decision making group , known as the top-six , was split down the middle , consisting of three politicians apiece drawn from ramaphosa and dlamini-zuma s camps .
ramaphosa s sole rival was dlamini-zuma , a veteran campaigner against racial economic inequality and big business interests .
there is some concern that the split of the anc top six ( officials ) might hinder cyril ramaphosa s ability to invoke the much needed reforms he has been campaigning on , said shaun murison , currency strategist at ig markets .