( this version of the november 22nd story corrects deadline for parties to register candidates in eleventh par ) mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican leftist presidential hopeful andres manuel lopez obrador showed leads over potential rivals in two newspaper polls published wednesday , shortly after he unveiled key policies of his campaign platform ahead of next july s election .
lopez obrador is almost certain to be the candidate for his national regeneration movement ( morena ) , but other parties have yet to announce who will run for them , making accurate polling difficult .
the survey in business newspaper el financiero showed lopez obrador , a former mexico city mayor who has already vied twice for the presidency , ahead in any of ten potential candidate groupings with leads ranging from 5 to 15 percentage points .
a separate poll in national daily el universal showed amlo , as the politician is known locally , at the top in six candidate combinations but with smaller margins , ranging from 5 to 10 points .
the 64-year-old laid out his 2018 policy platform on monday , vowing to boost infrastructure spending without upsetting economic stability .
he also published a 415-page manifesto outlining goals such as cleaning up graft with tighter financial regulations .
lopez obrador narrowly lost in 2006 and by a larger margin in 2012 , in both cases refusing to accept results he dismissed as marred by fraud .
he previously ran a popular , moderate government as mayor of mexico city , but rivals depict him as a dangerous firebrand and liken his policies and style to the socialist project in crisis-hit venezuela .
next year s election is expected to be contested by multiple candidates including independents for the first time , which will fragment the vote , a change that could favor either lopez obrador or the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) .
president enrique pena nieto is barred by law from a second term .
in both polls , interior minister miguel angel osorio chong emerges as the strongest potential candidate for the ruling party , which is considering at least four high-ranking officials .
mexican political parties have until march to formally register candidates , but most have set a mid-december deadline to benefit from a longer campaign period .
a coalition headed by the center-right national action party ( pan ) and center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) is also contemplating several options for candidacy .
el universal conducted 1,000 face-to-face interviews between nov. 10 and 17 nationwide , resulting in a 3.53 percent margin of error .
el financiero conducted 1,004 face-to-face interviews between nov. 11 and 16 nationwide , and said the poll has a 3.1 percent margin of error .