warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party may replace prime minister beata szydlo next week with her government s finance chief , mateusz morawiecki , to prepare for a series of elections in coming years , political sources said .
since the eurosceptic pis won power two years ago , szydlo , 54 , has overseen sweeping changes to state institutions in poland , which critics in the european union and washington say have undermined democracy and the rule of law .
despite the criticism , her conservative government is one of the most popular in poland since the 1989 collapse of communism , largely due to low unemployment , increases in public spending and a focus on traditional catholic values in public life .
senior pis officials have said , however , that a change was needed to prepare the party - led by jaroslaw kaczynski , poland s paramount politician - for a string of elections in the next three years .
local elections will be held in 2018 , parliamentary in 2019 and presidential in 2020 .
it s been obvious for a long time that there was no internal communication in the government and individual ministers were often following their own agenda , said one high-ranked official .
pis spokeswoman beata mazurek declined to say when a reshuffle could take place and whether szydlo would be removed .
but she told journalists it is not a secret that morawiecki has been a candidate .
we are talking about goals for the future , mazurek said .
it is not about something new , but about what tasks are ahead of us and they are related to the economy - and deputy prime minister morawiecki is responsible for the economy .
morawiecki , 49 , an ex-banker who is also a deputy prime minister , is broadly considered as anointed by kaczynski , while szydlo lacks the full trust of the party s chairman , analysts said .
as finance minister , morawiecki has overseen a rise in value-added tax collection of more than 20 percent so far this year , helping fund the government s popular child-subsidy program , cheaper medicine for the elderly , and a cut in the retirement age .
he has also pledged billions of euros worth of investment in the economy - a mix of eu funds , and public and private investment .
but public investment has faltered and has been slowly recovering only this year , still below expectations .
private investment has been sluggish , with companies worrying about tax burdens and changing legal frameworks as factors keeping them from pumping money into their businesses .
the prime minister and morawiecki have fought for control over the largest state-owned companies .
the conflict became public this year during the selection process for the chief executive of pzu , central europe s biggest insurance company .
after weeks of media speculation over a possible government reshuffle , szydlo wrote on twitter late on monday that no matter what happens , poland is most important , fuelling talk she might lose her job .
at the beginning of next week , there will most likely be changes in the government , a high-ranking pis source told reuters , speaking on condition of anonymity .
everything points to mateusz morawiecki becoming the new prime minister .
three other pis and government sources confirmed the information , with a government official saying that the final decision has not yet been made .
market reaction has been muted with analysts saying morawiecki would likely maintain the government s economic policy .
whoever were to become the prime minister , i do not expect significant changes in economic policy .
it is more a matter of whether the new government exhibits a more or a less confrontational attitude towards the eu , said piotr bielski , a head analyst at bank bz wbk .