new york ( reuters ) - it may be too close to call between democratic presidential candidates hillary clinton and bernie sanders in the iowa caucuses on monday , but the senator from vermont was the clear winner on social media .
sanders maintained his strong social media presence during the caucuses , commanding the majority of the twitter mentions over clinton .
sanders was mentioned over 77,000 times on twitter during the caucus , while clinton was mentioned 52,000 times , according to social media sentiment analytics firm brandwatch .
clinton , the democratic front-runner and former secretary of state , was in a virtual tie with sanders with more than 93 percent of iowa precincts reporting .
sanders , a self-described democratic socialist , amassed the largest number of new facebook followers of any candidate in the race during monday , the social network said , topping republican presidential front-runner donald trump by 15,695 to 10,704 .
clinton had the third most new followers , with 6,210 liking her page in the past day .
among republicans , trump finished second in the caucuses to ted cruz , the u.s. senator from texas .
sanders resonated with millennial social media users as well .
social media platform yik yak , which is particularly popular among younger social media users , said sanders was mentioned in 60 percent of all yaks that discussed a democratic candidate during the caucuses .
while social media buzz does not necessarily translate into votes , it is a good indication of the interest level surrounding a candidate .
the iowa contest was the first of the state-by-state battles to pick nominees for the nov. 8 election to succeed president barack obama .
google trends data also showed strong interest in sanders .
in iowa , sanders was the top-searched-for democratic candidate on the search engine , with 52 percent of queries relating to the democratic candidates .
clinton commanded 42 percent of queries .
even so , trump was the top most-searched for presidential candidate overall , according to the most recent google search data available .
( reporting by anjali athavaley ; additional reporting by amy tennery ; editing by marguerita choy and peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .