moscow ( reuters ) - pyongyang does not plan to hold any talks with washington about its nuclear program , a senior north korean diplomat said on friday , declaring that possessing nuclear weapons was a matter of life and death for north korea , the ria news agency reported .
tension has soared on the peninsula following a series of weapons tests by north korea and a string of increasingly bellicose exchanges between u.s. president donald trump and north korean leader kim jong un .
trump , in a speech last month at the united nations , threatened to totally destroy north korea if necessary to defend itself and allies and called the north s leader a rocket man on a suicide mission .
choe son-hui , director-general of the north american department of north korea s foreign ministry , told a non-proliferation conference in moscow washington would have to put up with north korea s nuclear status , ria reported .
this is a matter of life and death for us .
the current situation deepens our understanding that we need nuclear weapons to repel a potential attack .
we will respond to fire with fire .
pyongyang would regard any attempts to strangle the country via u.n. security council sanctions as an attempt to declare war .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov , addressing the same conference earlier on friday , urged world powers to get behind a joint russian-chinese roadmap for settling the crisis over north korea s weapons program .
we are convinced that its implementation will promote the lessening of military activity and tension on the korean peninsula and the forming in northeastern asia of a system of equal and indivisible security , he said .
the plan proposes a moratorium on north korea s missile and nuclear weapons tests , while south korea and the united states suspend holding military exercises .
the main task at the current stage is to prevent a military conflict which will inevitably lead to a large-scale humanitarian , economic and ecological catastrophe , lavrov said .
all the sides involved should exercise restraint .