london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may told parliament her plan on monday for a brexit transition period with broadly the same access to european union markets but was met with scepticism from pro-brexit lawmakers fearful of a watered-down eu exit .
may secured an agreement with eu leaders last week to move previously-deadlocked talks forward onto the topic of interim and long-term trading arrangements .
on monday , she reported back to parliament on those talks , setting out the framework of a roughly two-year implementation period designed to smooth britain s eu exit and provide clarity for businesses and citizens .
this will help give certainty to employers and families that we are going to deliver a smooth brexit , may said .
she added that negotiating guidelines agreed last week point to a shared desire with the eu to make rapid progress on a deal .
the outline of the transition period that may presented is consistent with plans she has previously set out and largely in line with what brussels wants , but remains subject to negotiation .
during this strictly time-limited implementation period which we will now begin to negotiate , we would not be in the single market or the customs union , as we will have left the european union , may said .
but we would propose that our access to one another s markets would continue as now , while we prepare and implement the new processes and new systems that will underpin our future partnership .
may said during the interim period , britain wants to begin registering the arrival of eu citizens in the country in preparation for a new immigration system , and would hope to agree , and even sign , trade deals with non-eu states .
but the plan was not universally accepted by lawmakers in may s conservative party , which is deeply divided over the best route out of the bloc .
jacob rees-mogg , one of several pro-brexit conservatives to express concern , called on may to reject the eu s negotiating guidelines because they would make britain no more than a vassal state , a colony , a serf of the european union .
may is reliant on the backing of all members of her party to put her brexit plans into action , having lost her parliamentary majority in an ill-judged snap election earlier this year which left her needing the support of a small northern irish party .
last week may s fragility was exposed by the rebellion of 11 largely pro-european conservative lawmakers in a parliamentary vote on brexit legislation that led to an embarrassing defeat .
the rebels have since drawn harsh criticism from some party members , and received threats of violence online .
we are dealing with questions of great significance to our country s future , so it is natural that there are many strongly held views on all sides of this chamber , may said .
but there can never be a place for the threats of violence and intimidation against some members that we have seen in recent days .
earlier on monday , may met key ministers to discuss the even thornier issue of what the country s long-term relationship with the eu should be - the first time since the june 2016 vote to leave that she has broached the topic with cabinet members .
a full cabinet discussion on the so-called end state of the brexit talks is then due on tuesday .