kosambi , indonesia ( reuters ) - indonesian police on friday started questioning the owner of a fireworks factory destroyed in a series of explosions and a fire that killed 47 workers and injured dozens , leaving some with horrific burns covering up to 80 percent of their bodies .
in one of indonesia s worst industrial disasters , many workers were unable to escape the fire at the plant in tangerang , an industrial and manufacturing hub near jakarta , on thursday .
police and residents broke holes in the walls to help trapped workers forced back by the intense heat from the blaze .
on friday , a pile of sacks was still smoldering as forensics experts searched for human remains .
the disaster will throw a new focus on safety standards at workplaces in indonesia , where rules are often poorly enforced .
police said the owner of the fireworks company , pt panca buana cahaya sukses , had returned to indonesia to be questioned , along with seven witnesses , mostly administrative staff at the factory .
when he heard about the incident at the factory he was in malaysia and he flew back straight away and went straight to tangerang police , jakarta police spokesman argo juwono told metro tv .
earlier , tangerang police chief harry kurniawan told reuters the cause of the fire was still being investigated and denied reports that the factory gates were locked .
responding to a report that underage workers were employed at the plant , kurniawan said investigations had not shown this to be the case .
hospital records seen by reuters showed two of the injured were aged 15 and 16 .
tangerang general hospital is treating 12 patients , some for burns over 40 percent to 80 percent of their bodies , said a spokesman , yudi firmansyah .
we are expecting treatment to take a long time , firmansyah added .
first there s the life-saving stage , then further treatment to prevent infections , and cosmetic procedures .
ayani , who goes by one name , wept when she saw her severely burnt daughter , nuhayati , 35 , lying on a hospital bed .
her skin has been burned off completely , she said , pointing to her forearms , torso and legs , and adding that her daughter had started working at the plant a month ago .
she only had some hair on her head , but her skin is almost gone .
officials have warned that the death toll could rise , with police saying three people were still unaccounted for .
there were some narrow escapes at the factory , staffed mainly by young women paid about $ 3 a day .
fitri , 18 , told kompas media she survived by submerging herself in a large tub of water used to clean equipment , along with four workers .
if we stay here , we won t be safe , she eventually told her friends , before climbing a 3-metre ( 10-ft ) wall beside the tub and breaking through the roof .
then residents used a ladder to help her descend.the report said the fire was thought to have started in a holding area next to the front gate where fireworks were stored .
victims in orange body bags were taken to a police hospital in east jakarta for identification by families .
sugeng priyanto , an official at the ministry of manpower , told metro tv a team was investigating safety standards at the warehouse , which had been operating for a few months .
tangerang regent ahmed zaki said the company had a permit to pack and wrap fireworks , though not produce them at the warehouse , which was close to a school and housing .
earlier he had said it had a manufacturing permit .
the disaster illustrated the low safety awareness in indonesia , jakarta-based concord consulting said in a daily report .
regulations may be in place officially , but too often are simply ignored , resulting in high levels of complacency , it said .
( for a graphic on 'map locating the site of the fireworks factory ' click tmsnrt.rs/2gk9thv )