over the weekend , president trump signed a massive $ 109 billion deal selling weapons to the kingdom of saudi arabia , which has been recently accused of war crimes in yemen .
the arms agreement , negotiated by his son-in-law jared kushner , is the biggest of its kind in us history .
it s the first stage of a $ 350 billion commitment over 10 years , which will supply saudi arabia with some of america s most advanced and destructive weapons systems .
the terms of the deal cover everything from fighter jets to tanks , with a special focus on america s cutting edge thaad missile shield .
thaad has been in the news recently as trump insisted that south korea owed america $ 1 billion for deploying the system at the north korean border.saudi king : come overtrump : i ca n't , i said you guys did 9/11saudi king : we 'll buy $ 110 billion in weaponstrump : pic.twitter.com/fkzq6xnfdb ken klippenstein ( @ kenklippenstein ) may 20 , 2017trump reportedly negotiated a massive discount on cutting-edge fighter jets in order to get saudi arabia to sign on to the agreement .
hmmm , i do n't see how selling $ 200 billion in advanced weapons to an army that absolutely can not fight can go badly inventor of leftism ( @ byyourlogic ) may 19 , 2017also part of the arms sale are some of the world s most advanced stealth attack ships , which were designed and built as part of america s ongoing effort to revamp the navy.aside from the obvious hypocrisy of arming the saudis , who regularly commit human rights abuses against women , racial minorities , and homosexuals living in the country , the deal has come under fire for saudi arabia s recent war crimes in yemen.trump taking action to facilitate more saudi war crimes in yemen .
https : //t.co/zughkmucev pic.twitter.com/svntem4njf matthew yglesias ( @ mattyglesias ) may 20 , 2017one of the largest abuses that saudi arabia is accused of in yemen are crimes against children .
a report by global nonprofit save the children details saudi bombings of schools and children s hospitals.in 2016 , former un secretary general ban ki-moon briefly included saudi arabia on its yearly human rights blacklist .
the country was removed from the list shortly after due to immediate complaints from the saudi government .
the decision met criticism at the time from groups like amnesty international .
photo by mark wilson via getty images .