( reuters ) - the u.s. tax overhaul as currently proposed will make housing less affordable , according to nearly half of the property market experts polled by reuters , with another third saying it would not do anything to improve it .
a decade on from the start of the crash that knocked more than a third off u.s. home values and led to a deep global recession , the housing market has bounced back smartly .
u.s. house prices are expected to rise next year and in 2019 , faster than predicted just a few months ago and at more than double the rate of underlying consumer inflation and wages .
that is in sharp contrast to the outlook for britain .
[ gb/homes ] the s & p/case shiller composite index of u.s. home prices in 20 metropolitan areas is expected to gain 5.1 percent next year and 4.2 percent in 2019 .
the main challenge currently is a chronic shortage of homes , which is pushing prices beyond the reach of new buyers , who tend to be young and not particularly well-paid and , if university-educated , already saddled with huge amounts of debt .
now adding to those concerns is an effort by president donald trump ’ s administration to overhaul the tax code , which analysts say could undermine any potential improvements in affordability in the housing market .
the republican tax proposal allows interest payment deductions on mortgage debt up to $ 750,000 , down from the current $ 1 million .
the house of representatives is scheduled to vote on the tax bill on tuesday afternoon , and senate majority leader mitch mcconnell said his chamber would vote on tuesday evening .
twelve of 26 analysts who answered an extra question said the tax bill in its current form will probably make housing more expensive .
eight respondents said it would do nothing and only six expected it would improve affordability .
“ losing the tax deduction of mortgage payments and property taxes - of having deductibility limited - makes housing less attractive and less affordable , ” said robert brusca , chief economist at fao economics .
but he added : “ the trump/congress plan is such a not-well-thought-out-mess it ’ s hard to tell how it will impact people in a systematic way. ” asked to rate affordability on a scale of 1 being the cheapest and 10 the most expensive , the median answer was 6 .
while the latest consensus on u.s. housing affordability has not changed in more than a year of polling , the range of forecasts has narrowed .
“ we think there ’ s a possibility that if the tax bill is successful in generating economic growth , housing affordability could take a turn for the worse , ” noted ralph mclaughlin , economist at trulia in san francisco .
“ this is because the housing market has a supply , not a demand problem , so any policies that generate growth without boosting supply could make homes even more expensive than they already are. ” another challenge has been lingering for years .
while the unemployment rate has plunged to a 17-year low of 4.1 percent , annual wage growth has not broken above 2.9 percent since the great recession that ended about eight years ago .
“ home prices have been appreciating circa 5-6 percent well above wage growth at 2-2.5 percent , decreasing affordability for the average buyer , particularly first-time homebuyers strapped with student loan debt and facing still modest labor market opportunities , ” said lindsey piegza , chief economist at stifel in chicago .
she also pointed out that eliminating mortgage interest rate deductions will make housing less affordable .
the latest housing market data indicates that turnover is still far from the overheating boom rates from before the financial crisis .
existing home sales rose to a seasonally-adjusted annualized rate of 5.48 million units in october , but well below the peak above 7 million units in 2005 .
property analysts now forecast annualized existing home sales in each quarter next year to average 5.5-5.6 million , less than the 5.70-million-unit pace hit in march , which was the highest since february 2007 .
those latest projections were also weaker than expected in a reuters poll in august .
but data on monday showed u.s. single-family homebuilding and permits rose in november to a level not seen since august 2007 and confidence among homebuilders soaring to near an 18-1/2-year high in december , in a hopeful sign for a housing market that has been struggling with supply constraints .
the u.s. federal reserve expects to raise interest rates three times next year .
while lifting short-term rates won ’ t necessarily push up longer-term market rates , the path of least resistance is higher .
still , the latest reuters consensus for mortgage rates was lower than what was forecast in the previous survey in august .
the 30-year mortgage rate is expected to average 4.24 percent next year , rising to 4.65 percent in 2019 and 5.00 percent in 2020 .
analysts were evenly split in the poll on whether a faster pace of rate hikes from the fed would significantly slow activity .
“ if there are more than three hikes , it is likely that the fed would be responding to stronger economic growth pushing inflation up – and that stronger growth would offset the rise in rates , ” said david berson , chief economist at nationwide insurance in columbus , ohio .