paris ( reuters ) - plans to buy a new presidential jet for france s emmanuel macron could be held up because of a controversy sparked by his prime minister , who hired a private plane for 350,000 euros ( $ 416,000 ) to fly home from japan .
business paper la tribune said news of edouard philippe s costly japan-to-paris charter had come at a bad time , with macron who has campaigned against wasteful spending about to decide on a new presidential plane .
france s equivalent of air force one is an old airbus a330 that was bought second-hand 10 years ago and given a luxury refit for use by nicolas sarkozy , whose penchant for high-living earned him the nickname president bling bling .
at macron s office , an official played down the jet issue , saying a new purchase was being considered before he took office in may and that the government was waiting for a report on the matter before making a decision .
that will take a few weeks and when it s done we will assess all options for improving travel arrangements for the president and government , an elysee official told reuters .
macron has a similar pr problem to sarkozy in a country where ostentatious displays of wealth are frowned upon : opinion polls show many voters feel the former investment banker is overly pandering to the rich , pointing to his scrapping of a wealth tax and lowering of subsidies for public housing .
macron , who turned 40 on thursday , drew criticism early in his presidency after it emerged he had spent 26,000 euros on makeup in his first 100 days in office .
there were further brickbats this week after he celebrated his birthday in the grounds of a famed loire chateau .
aside from the bad timing , the acquisition of a new presidential jet raises another delicate issue .
the bill at least $ 100 million but possibly double that is likely to be paid from the defense budget .
france s army chief abruptly quit in july following a row over budget cuts , forcing macron to say the cuts were a one-off and that increases were planned in the years ahead .
the plane bought for sarkozy cost 176 million euros once it was fitted with a presidential bedroom , a soundproofed meeting room , kitchen , scrambled communications technology and various other medical and emergency capabilities .
while airbus declined to comment on any new order , a plane of the kind mooted for macron , an airbus a319neo , has a list price of $ 99.5 million .
it could cost more than double that if the refit ordered for sarkozy is anything to go by .
but it would at least provide the president and seven staff with the ability to fly 12,500 km , or up to 15 hours , non-stop , reaching most of the world s capitals in a single journey .