the monthly cost for the feds to pay for food stamps is sickening .
we re at an all time high for people receiving help with snap .
you might think it s because there are so many people who need it .. wrong !
it has become a debit card for some to just buy whatever they want with it .
yes , it s not just for cheese and milk anymore .
you can buy fast food and so many other things with your government issued debit card .
this is not good news for the hardworking americans out there who pay for this fraud , waste and abuse .
the abuse is bad enough but what if i told you major corporations partner with the feds to promote food stamp use ?
three powerful industry sectors benefit from snap : 1 ) major food manufacturers such as coca-cola , kraft , and mars ; 2 ) leading food retailers such as walmart and kroger ; and 3 ) large banks , such as j.p. morgan chase , which contract with states to help administer snap benefits .
the number of individuals receiving benefits from the supplemental nutrition assistance program , otherwise known as food stamps , has exceeded 45 million for 53 straight months , according to data released by the department of agriculture.the ebt rap glamorizes using the ebt : there were 45,415,445 beneficiaries of the food stamp program in september 2015 , the latest month for which data is available .
the number declined by 48,988 from august to september.the usda has been tracking data on participation in the program since fiscal year 1969 , at which time average participation stood at about 2,800,000 .
this means that since then , participation in the program has increased by roughly 16-fold.maura corrigan , a scholar at the american enterprise institute , says that despite improvements in the economy , the program remains large and too few adults who benefit from the program are working .
as a former state human services director who administered more than 70 federal means-tested welfare programs , i believe that one track is especially important for reforming welfare programs she said .
our nation s simple three-word mantra should be : better off working .
social safety-net programs , including snap , should expect and encourage work and the dignity and responsibility that accompany it from those who are able to do so .
additionally , she says that the program promotes adding beneficiaries to its rolls .
rather than promoting self-sufficiency , snap s predominant track record over the past decade has been to add participants to its rolls .
also , its eligibility definitions are in many cases vague , allowing it to deny fraud , waste , and abuse in the program , despite the reports of such behavior from citizens and caseworkers .
the number of food stamp recipients first exceeded 45 million in may 2011 .
since then , the number has consistently exceeded 45 million , hitting a record high of about 47,790,000 in december 2012.households on food stamps received an average benefit of $ 255.51 in september 2015 , and total benefits for the month cost taxpayers $ 5.72 billion.read more : wfb