barcelona ( reuters ) - in a glass building overlooking barcelona s port , empty desks and computers wait for new workers of catalonia s tax agency .
as in other spanish regions , the agency already collects some taxes on wealth , inheritance , gambling and transport .
but the regional government has spent 18 million euros expanding the agency in the hope that it will gain independence from madrid in an oct. 1 vote that the spanish government considers illegal .
from the shiny port office with a 20 year lease , it is hoping to wrestle control of the rest of the region s finances , claiming billions of euros of income tax and corporate revenue currently going to the spanish government .
catalonia has increased the agency s staff by 75 percent to 700 since january and plans to fill the empty desks by the end of the year if the vote goes through .
it has also opened a dozen new regional offices .
this is catalonia s most tangible investment in the institutional infrastructure needed for a fledgling state and highlights its government s determination to secede .
it says it will declare independence within 48 hours of a yes vote .
it also shows that they are likely to keep pushing for independence , even if they lose the vote .
in a future transition , it would not be acceptable for them to keep our taxes , because they are ours and they keep a lot , said catalan treasury secretary josep lluis salvado .
madrid has declared the vote unconstitutional so there are widespread doubts about whether catalonia can even stage a credible vote .
it may also not go in the catalonian government s favor .
polls show less than half of catalonia s 5.5 million voters want self-rule although most want the chance to vote on the issue .
it is also not clear that companies would pay up : barcelona s business lobby says no private firms would obey catalan tax demands unless approved by madrid .
but the spanish government appears to be rattled .
on wednesday police entered the catalan economy and budget department and the tax office as part of a raid on regional government offices , seizing documents and cutting off phone lines , according to a department official .
it was the latest step in madrid s campaign to prevent the referendum from going ahead .
during the raids , police arrested salvado , the junior economy minister josep maria jove and three other department officials , the official said .
they remain under arrest , the official said .
catalonia s resolve also worries some investors in spanish bonds and the tax agency s expansion suggests an early post-independence flashpoint with madrid could be a financial one .
catalonia , with an economy larger than portugal s , says it receives an unfair redistribution of tax revenues from madrid .
each year , it pays about 10 billion euros ( $ 12 billion ) more in taxes to madrid than it gets back , or around 5 percent of regional economic output , according to data from the spanish treasury .
in contrast , spain s poorest region , andalusia , receives almost 8 billion euros more than it pays in .
the money issue is one of the roots of the problem , the feeling that catalonia is being ripped off , said angel talavera , a catalan economist at consultancy oxford economics .
if its agency took over all forms of taxation , it would also collect income , company and value-added taxes , bringing total receipts to 42 billion euros , salvado said .
the agency collected about 3 billion euros last year , according to a spokeswoman for the catalan economy and budget department .
to avoid financial collapse , an independent catalonia would need those tax revenues , economists say .
it has 75 billion euros in public debt , 35 percent of its economic output , one of the highest of all spain s regions , and its government bonds are already classified as junk by credit rating agencies .
investors are growing nervous as the referendum nears : the additional yield that catalan bonds pay over spanish short-term debt is at close to a nine-month high of about 300 basis points .
the catalan government last issued a bond in 2012 , two years ahead of a previous failed independence referendum .
it is not currently considering any bond issues , a spokeswoman said .
upon a declaration of independence , salvado said catalonia would seek to open talks with madrid to take over all taxation in phases .
it would start in october by pocketing 2.5 billion euros in taxes from about 700 public catalan firms that currently goes to madrid .
later , the agency would collect tax from private firms and individuals .
it could take years and the agency would need at least another 4,000 employees , salvado added .
the principal challenge is to make sure the taxpayer does not perceive a change , he said .
spain s treasury has told catalan businesses that paying taxes to the regional tax agency could constitute a crime .
madrid also took legislative steps last week to prevent the catalan government from using spanish public funds to pay for the ballot .
at the moment companies view it as impossible , they don t consider it , jordi alberich , director of barcelona-based business association cercle d economia , told reuters .
the catalan government also lacks the database needed to correctly collect personal income and company taxes , according to carlos cruzado , the head of the spanish treasury s workers union .
salvado said the agency had sufficient data on taxpayers inheritance and wealth taxes to make a start on taking over other forms of taxation , but they would seek to negotiate access to spain s historical tax records .
he did not expect a positive response .
the spanish state is going to use its preferred word - no .