bucharest ( reuters ) - romania s senate approved on wednesday part of a judicial overhaul criticized by the european commission , the united states and the country s own president as a threat to judicial independence .
the bill passed by the assembly is one of three that have triggered street protests across the country , a european union state ranked as one of the bloc s most corrupt , and drawn opposition from thousands of magistrates .
the three bills jointly limit magistrates independence and set up a special unit to probe crimes committed by magistrates .
this makes magistrates the only professional category with a prosecuting unit dedicated to investigating them .
the proposed changes mean the country is joining its eastern european peers hungary and poland , where populist leaders are also trying to control the judiciary , in defying eu concerns over the rule of law .
lawmakers approved another bill on tuesday , amending the definition of prosecutor s activity to exclude the word independent .
a third bill is widely expected to be approved on thursday .
the commission launched an unprecedented action on poland on wednesday , calling on other member states to prepare to sanction warsaw if it fails to reverse judicial reforms it says pose a threat to democracy .
romanian president klaus iohannis said there were obvious risks that the commission could do the same in romania s case if the legal changes take hold .
if someone imagines there will not be consequences , then they are from the moon , iohannis told reporters .
there will be consequences , the magnitude depends on the laws final form .
it could be months before the bills are enforced .
opposition parties plan to challenge them in the constitutional court .
the president could do the same , as well as send them back to parliament for re-examination , something he can do only once .
he could also trigger a country-wide referendum on continuing the fight against corruption .
romania s ruling social democrats , which command an overwhelming majority in parliament together with their junior coalition partner , alde , have so far ignored the warnings .
they are also working on changes to the criminal code that critics say will derail law and order .
the country s prosecutor general , chief anti-corruption prosecutor and the head of the anti-organized crime unit have all criticized the proposed changes which they said will not only end the anti-graft fight but endanger general safety .
hundreds of magistrates protested in silence this week , lining the steps of courthouses across the country .
romania s anti-corruption prosecution unit has sent 72 members of parliament to trial since 2006 .
the speakers of parliament s lower house and senate are both currently on trial in separate cases .