melbourne/the hague ( reuters ) - australia and east timor have reached a breakthrough agreement on a maritime border , ending a decade-old row between the two nations that has stalled a $ 40 billion offshore gas project .
the permanent court of arbitration in the hague announced on saturday that the neighboring countries had reached an agreement on the central elements of a maritime boundary delimitation between them in the timor sea but that details would remain confidential until the deal was finalised .
arbitration began last year and the talks , hosted by denmark , resulted in a deal on aug. 30 .
the countries agreed to establish a special regime for the greater sunrise field , paving the way for its development and the sharing of the resulting revenue , the court said in a statement .
until all issues are resolved , the details of the parties agreement will remain confidential , the statement said .
nevertheless , the parties agree that the agreement reached on 30 august 2017 marks a significant milestone in relations between them and in the historic friendship between the peoples of timor-leste and australia .
the leader of east timor s delegation , chief negotiator and former president xanana gusm o , hailed the agreement as a historic moment which would mark the beginning of a new era in timor-leste s friendship with australia .
i thank the commission for its resolve and skill in bringing the parties together , through a long and at times difficult process , to help us achieve our dream of full sovereignty and to finally settle our maritime boundaries with australia , gusm o said .
timor , a former portuguese colony , has struggled to develop as an independent nation since a violent break from occupying forces from indonesia in 1999 .
gas reserves , once claimed by australia , is a key to its economic future .
the long-running political dispute has led the owners of the greater sunrise fields - woodside petroleum , conocophillips , royal dutch shell and japan s osaka gas - to shelve the project .
the fields are estimated to hold 5.1 trillion cubic feet ( 144 billion cubic meters ) of gas and 226 million barrels of condensate , which analysts have estimated could be worth $ 40 billion .
the existing maritime boundary is aligned with australia s continental shelf , but east timor has long argued the border should lie half way between it and australia - placing much of the greater sunrise fields under its control .
australia had previously resisted renegotiating a permanent border but under pressure from the united nations has agreed to enter talks with east timor .
australia foreign minister julie bishop said the agreement was a landmark day in the relationship between timor-leste and australia .
this agreement , which supports the national interest of both our nations , further strengthens the long-standing and deep ties between our governments and our people , bishop said .
australia earlier this year agreed to allow east timor to terminate an oil revenue sharing treaty between the two countries , while earlier treaties that govern production remain in place .
east timor withdrew legal proceedings it launched over the past few years against australia challenging the validity of the treaty on certain maritime arrangements in the timor sea , to advance the conciliation process , a joint statement said in january .
having reached an agreement , the two countries will continue to meet with the commission in order to finalize talks in october .
the commission said the countries will now begin to engage with other stakeholders in the timor sea regarding the implications of their agreement , in particular with respect to the greater sunrise resource .