mogalakwena , south africa ( reuters ) - a new power struggle is unfolding in south africa s old homelands between global mining giants , traditional leaders and an impoverished rural populace .
parts of an industry long used to labor unrest are now contending with community protests that have cut production of the country s largest mineral export earner , platinum , and may shut some operations down altogether .
at the heart of the conflict are tribal leaders who have royal titles and feudal-style control over the homelands , poor rural areas designated to south africa s black majority by its former white minority rulers during apartheid .
tribal leaders are also key allies of president jacob zuma , whose political base has become increasingly rural , and his african national congress party has drafted a law that would cement their control .
but with protests spreading across the homelands , the communities , mining companies and some within the anc itself are moving to change what they see as an anachronistic system .
the traditional leaders have acted as intermediaries with companies which have discovered chrome and coal as well as platinum in the homelands and hope to find shale gas .
many locals say they are seeing none of the proceeds .
if they don t give us that 175 million rand ( $ 13 million ) , we are going to shut down the mine , said chippa langa , a leader of the community around the mogalakwena platinum mine , referring to a community fund set up by anglo american platinum ( amplats ) .
to avoid such an outcome , a leading human rights lawyer is negotiating with the local royal house to allow community representatives more control over the fund .
we are renegotiating the agreement to make it more accountable , said the lawyer , richard spoor , whose work has included spearheading a class action suit against gold producers over the fatal lung disease silicosis which miners contract .
it is a plan that , if copied elsewhere , would dilute the power of the tribal leaders and could do the same to the anc , which has ruled south africa since the end of apartheid in 1994 .
but spoor says he and his legal team , who are acting for the communities rather than the mine , are not undermining tradition .
our view is that this more democratic model is far more aligned with traditional law and custom .
we don t regard the current very authoritarian top-down style of chieftanship as consistent with the traditional institution .
zolani mkiva , head of presidency at contralesa , the umbrella group for south africa s traditional leaders , agreed that the african way is bottom up , but said what he called isolated cases involving some mining deals were giving the chiefs a bad name .
they tend to attract attention and create an impression that this represents the african way of leadership , he said .
chris griffith , chief executive of amplats , a unit of anglo american , said the company was fully behind the restructuring of the community trust and was applying the lessons learned to other deals .
what we are trying to do is get away from some of the previous structures where we felt obliged to pay the money over to the kgoshi ( chief ) , griffiths told reuters , noting a new-style deal on a chrome project in february .
at that project , there have been no protests so far .
discontent has not been confined to mogalakwena , the world s largest open-pit platinum mine , where amplats says protests two years ago cost it 8,600 ounces of its annual 200,000-plus ounces of production .
impala platinum s marula mine says it lost 10,000 ounces of almost 80,000 ounces of production in the last financial year to community protests that included road blocks , vehicle stonings and assaults on people reporting for work .
a nearby chrome project it set up with a tribal council - made up of a chief and his aides - has collapsed and impala says it may soon have to close marula , which would be the first such shutdown in south africa linked purely to social upheaval .
falling platinum prices have multiplied the pressure .
implats ceo nico muller told reuters the company would not change the structure itself but wanted the two sides to resolve their differences .
the way they apply the proceeds is perceived not to benefit the broader community , he said .
around mogalakwena , set amid rust-tinged rocky outcrops in sweltering latitudes north of johannesburg , resentment over grinding poverty runs deep .
i never worked in the mine .
i never got benefit , nothing , said 57-year-old leg phalanea as he walked down a dusty street near the mine .
the bill before parliament formalizes the current political system in the homelands with a clause allowing traditional councils to enter partnerships with any body or institution .
it says such deals must be beneficial to the community represented by such council , but does not require consultation .
however , richard mdakane , an anc mp who chairs the parliamentary committee on traditional matters , said villagers should have more say .
we are amending many clauses that were there just to make sure that the bill allows community participation in these processes , he said .
some in the anc are seeking to go further by ending the chief s role as custodians of land now regarded as communal by giving villagers title deeds to the land they plough .
anc treasurer secretary zweli mkhize - seen as a contender to replace zuma as party chief at a december conference where policy positions will also be adopted - told reuters : we are discussing this issue .
there is a huge discussion about what kind of land tenure we need in the former homelands .
tribal power is already ebbing in places such as mogalakwena .
villagers there have agreed a new trust structure with four trustees : one from amplats , one independent , and the other two from the royal mapela clan , to replace a structure dominated by the tribal council .
former chief kgabagare langa , who has been ousted in a dispute , said he is challenging his removal in court .
the new chief , or kgoshi , hans langa , said he could not comment on the restructuring as his lawyers were working on it .
residents say they have received positive signals from the new chief s camp and amplats griffith said the company was just waiting for him to settle in .
it s clear the new kgoshi will want to see peace in mapela , said jonathon manamela , 53 , treasurer of the mapela executive committee , a community group involved in the talks .
our culture believes you are a king because of the people .
( $ 1 = 13.5818 rand )