san francisco ( reuters ) - a record number of local tax and bond measures will fill the california ballot this november , including over $ 32 billion of proposed funding for education , infrastructure and homeless services .
some 650 local measures will go before voters , including 427 revenue measures .
that is considerably more than the number proposed during any of the last five gubernatorial or presidential elections , according to data compiled by the local government finance consulting firm californiacityfinance.com .
previously , the most measure-packed election was in november 2014 , with 268 local revenue measures .
california is one of 24 states that allow initiative rights to its citizens .
voter-approved measures are used to raise revenues for specific construction projects , change tax policy , or create new laws .
in the golden state and nationwide , a boom in bond proposals follows years of federal cutbacks to state and local programs , continued low interest rates and years of unmet infrastructure needs .
the largest monetary requests by local municipalities in california include $ 3.5 billion for the bay area rapid transit ( bart ) , $ 1.2 billion for los angeles homeless housing and services , and $ 950 million for affordable housing in santa clara county .
there are 184 local measures to fund public school and community college projects , totaling more than $ 25 billion .
michael coleman , head of californiacityfinance.com , said the surge in education bond measures coincides with statewide proposition 51 , which authorizes $ 9 billion in general obligation bonds for public school facilities .
proposition 55 aims to increase education funding by extending upper income tax rates .
“ there ’ s a lot of folks that think this is the time to go for a new school bond , ” said coleman .
“ they see it as a synchronous message , and time to get in line for matching funds. ” the nov. 8 election is a focus for statewide propositions as well .
there are 17 in total , regarding issues ranging from marijuana legalization to the public cost of prescription drugs , tobacco taxes and the death penalty .
the surge of ballot measures comes during an election year in which the presidential race is sure to draw large crowds to voting booths .
there is also the lingering effect of low voter turnout during the november 2014 election that reduced the signature threshold for a proposition to qualify .
across the country , 74 citizen-initiated measures fill state ballots , more than double the number certified in 2014 , according to natalie cohen , senior analyst at wells fargo securities .
growing populist sentiment and frustration with traditional government contributed to the groundswell , cohen wrote in a recent report about upcoming ballot measures .
in california , some local measures are reactive to state propositions .
for example , proposition 64 aims to legalize recreational cannabis , and 37 local measures would create marijuana taxes for local cities and counties .
thirteen countywide measures would fund transportation improvements .
“ that ’ s coming from an acknowledged , pent-up demand for badly needed infrastructure repairs , ” coleman said .
eighty-eight measures would increase or extend local sale taxes .
another 39 support parcel taxes for road improvements , fire and emergency services , hospitals and police .
parcel taxes are flat taxes on properties that originated after proposition 13 severely limited property taxes in 1978 .
three bay area measures would tax sugary beverages .