united nations/havana ( reuters ) - cuba urged the united states on friday to cooperate with its investigation into incidents that the u.s. says have harmed its diplomats in havana and not to politicize the matter , days after washington said it was considering closing its cuban embassy .
in an address to the united nations general assembly , cuban foreign minister bruno rodriguez said the top level of the government in havana had ordered an investigation into the mysterious matter , which threatens the fragile detente between the old cold war foes .
however , a cuban government source told reuters that the united states had provided no evidence of the harm , including hearing loss , dizziness and nausea , that it says u.s. diplomats and their relatives based in havana have suffered .
cuban doctors had also not been allowed to examine anyone , the source said .
a spokesman for the u.s. embassy in havana declined to comment .
the investigation to clarify this issue continues , and in order to be able to arrive to a conclusion , it will be crucial to count on the cooperation of the u.s. authorities , rodriguez told the u.n .
it would be unfortunate if a matter of this nature is politicized , said rodriguez .
cuba has denied any involvement in the affair .
u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida was among five republican senators that a week ago called for u.s. president donald trump to retaliate against cuba by expelling its diplomats and possibly shuttering the u.s. embassy in havana .
rubio helped forge trump s new cuba policy , rolling back parts of the detente achieved under democratic former president barack obama and taking a harder line on the communist-run island .
cuba s state-run media this week said the only party interested in a deterioration in relations were a small group of republicans led by rubio .
the u.s. government in august first officially confirmed they were investigating the incidents it said began in late 2016 .
several canadians were also affected , a canadian official said , further deepening the mystery .
the last incident to affect a u.s. citizen occurred late in august , bringing the number of those with symptoms to 21 , a u.s. state department official said last week .
some of those had returned home for testing and treatment , the u.s. official said , while others had been tested in cuba , where the embassy has a fulltime medical officer .
investigations by cuba , the united states and canada have yet to come up with any answers .
experts agree it is hard to see how any attacks could have been carried out or what the motivation could be .
theories abound , from surveillance technology gone awry to a sophisticated acoustic weapon in the hands of cuban-american exiles or third-party state actors such as russia , iran or north korea , but most flounder .
audiologists for example have raised doubt over the possibility of whether any sonic weapon exists that can be used covertly to bring about the range of symptoms mentioned by diplomats .