kabul ( reuters ) - one afghan and three turkish teachers linked to an organization regarded with suspicion by the turkish government were detained by afghan intelligence officials on tuesday , the organization s head said .
the move against afghan turk cag educational ngo ( atce ) , the body that runs the schools , appeared to be part of a turkish campaign against followers of fethullah gulen , a u.s.-based cleric it accuses of being behind a coup attempt in july 2016 aimed at ousting president tayyip erdogan .
atce , which says it is an independent organization , runs schools in several cities including the capital , kabul , mazar-i-sharif , kandahar and herat and has been in afghanistan since 1995 .
around 7 a.m. , four of our teachers traveling in two different cars were picked up by ( afghan intelligence ) , said human erdogan , the chairman of atce .
other intelligence officials later went to the group s girls school nearby looking for another teacher , he said .
he said the men presented themselves as members of the national directorate of of security ( nds ) , afghanistan s intelligence agency .
neither the nds nor the afghan government immediately responded to requests for comment .
afghan president ashraf ghani was on his way to istanbul ontuesday to attend the organization of islamic cooperation ( oic ) summit .
in march , afghanistan ordered the schools to be transferred to a foundation approved by ankara .
last year , shortly before a visit to islamabad by the turkish president , pakistan ordered turkish teachers at schools run by a body called pakturk international schools and colleges to leave the country .
gulen , a former ally of erdogan who now lives in self-imposed exile in the united states , promotes a moderate form of islam , supporting inter-faith communication and western-style education and inspiring schools in different parts of the world .
he has denied any involvement in the 2016 failed coup attempt .
( this version of the story fixes garbled wording in headline ; text unchanged )