president-elect donald trump came to the defense of l.l .
bean inc. on thursday after a group called for the boycott of the outdoor clothing maker because a granddaughter of the founder supported his campaign for president .
thank you to linda bean of l.l .
bean for your great support and courage , mr. trump tweeted .
people will support you even more now .
buy l.l .
bean .
ms. bean , who is a member of l.l .
bean s board of directors , donated $ 60,000 to making america great again llc , a political-action committee created to support mr. trump s candidacy , according to website open secrets .
that contribution appeared to exceed the $ 5,000 annual limit for individual contributions , opening up the pac to possible punitive action , according to federal election commission filings .
the pac has responded to the fec that it is a super pac that can raise unlimited amounts.grab your wallet , the group behind the boycott , has a list of dozens companies that it is calling on consumers to shun for their support of the president-elect , including retailers who sell trump-related products .
l.l .
bean is one of about 30 companies listed on the group s website .
it s certainly a testament to the strength and influence of the # grabyourwallet movement that certain powerful people who disagree now feel compelled to tweet advertisements for the companies being boycotted , shannon coulter , co-founder of the group , said in an email.in a facebook post on sunday , shawn gorman , l.l .
bean s chairman and a great-grandson of the company s founder , said ms. bean was one of 50-plus family members involved with the company , who hold views and embrace causes across the political spectrum , just as our employees and customers do .
mr. gorman added that no individual speaks for the company and that l.l .
bean , which is based in freeport , maine , doesn t endorse political candidates , take positions on political matters , or make political contributions.ms .
bean , who was a republican candidate for the u.s. house of representatives in 1988 and 1992 , told fox news on thursday that she had no intention of backing down .
they re bullies , she said .
trying to control what we do , what we buy in maine .
she is the granddaughter of leon leonwood bean , who founded the company in 1912.read more : wsj