vienna ( reuters ) - ahmed ali , a 34-year-old teacher , fled the war in syria two years ago and settled in a quiet austrian town on the hilly border with the czech republic .
he was hoping to raise a family there .
but voter attitudes towards immigrants have hardened due to concerns about security and the economy after austria took in more than 1 percent of its population in asylum seekers in 2015 .
this fueled support for the far-right party freedom party and its candidate came close to winning last year s presidential election .
immigration is still the dominant political issue ahead of the oct. 15 parliamentary election .
in january , lawmakers in lower austria , where ali lived , reduced benefits for new arrivals .
they said the benefits system needed protecting from being overstretched by the influx of refugees .
ali and his pregnant wife moved again to vienna in july , where their benefits would still be paid in full .
most of us fled when the letter came telling us our social benefits would be cut .
at first we didn t believe it but then we saw it on our bank balance , said ali , who says his german is not yet good enough to find work .
three of austria s nine provinces lower austria , burgenland and upper austria have reduced benefits for new arrivals .
foreign minister sebastian kurz , leader of the conservative people s party which is leading in the polls , wants to make similar cuts apply to the whole country .
chancellor christian kern , whose social democratic party polls show competing with the freedom party for second place , has resisted the idea but said he could support them in cases where new arrivals turn down job offers .
so far , the cuts have primarily impacted migrants like ali who sought asylum in austria when it opened its border in 2015 although some austrians returning home have also been caught .
in burgenland the rules apply to all people seeking help who have spent fewer than five years of the six preceding their application for benefits in austria .
a statement accompanying the upper austrian bill painted the cuts as a way to tackle the problem of welfare magnetism in the context of refugees .
the lower austrian government declined to comment due to a legal challenge against the cuts .
in a case brought by a charity , austria s constitutional court is expected to rule next year on whether the cuts by lower austria , decided in late 2016 and implemented since early 2017 , are illegal .
the 1951 united nations refugee convention says host countries must grant refugees the same treatment with respect to public relief and assistance as their own nationals .
a 2011 eu directive sets a similar rule .
the u.n. refugee agency ( unhcr ) , which has denounced xenophobic debates in austrian politics ahead of the election , has described the cuts as breaches of international and european law but no international cases have been started .
a burgenland spokeswoman defended the benefits changes , saying they targeted austrian nationals as well .
therefore there is no violation of ... the eu directive and the refugee convention , she said .
a spokesman for kurz said legislation to expand the cuts would be passed and phrased in such a way that no doubt for the highest courts will emerge .
the three provinces have cut benefits for new arrivals , even after obtaining asylum , to around 570 euros ( $ 669 ) a month , less than half the poverty threshold of 1,200 euros , compared with around 850 euros for an austrian who has never lived abroad .
benefits for a household have been capped at 1,500 euros .
rather than live off less than what is considered the bare minimum for most austrians , many of those affected have moved , particularly to the capital .
ali moved to an apartment with his uncle and aunt in a dilapidated building on the outskirts of the city costing 1,100 euros a month .
they don t care how many children you have .
and maybe they ll cut again , ali said in his living room with two sofas , a television set and a picture of kurdish leader masoud barzani .
he found more affordable apartments but the landlord did not want refugees as tenants .
one landlady was concerned social benefits for refugees might be cut in vienna , too .
instead of cutting the social safety net , integration and independence should be supported .
we fear that language learning , training and the search for work will suffer if those affected don t know how to pay their rent anymore , said the chief the unhcr s austria office , christoph pinter .
although the freedom party and kurz s conservatives have been the most vocal about cutting benefits for new arrivals , the three provinces that have put cuts in place are governed by various two-way combinations of all three main political parties .
but most of those affected who spoke to reuters fear an election victory for kurz .
if kurz wins , it will be a big problem , said 24-year-old basel from deraa in syria .
he moved from lower austria to vienna in july , leaving behind friends and a job as a hairdresser .
he says the cuts paralyze people like him with fear .
you stop thinking about the future .
( for a graphic on austria 's parliamentary election , click tmsnrt.rs/2hkii65 )