nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s chief justice said the national police chief had enhanced the security of supreme court judges after one of their bodyguards was shot , denying a reuters report that a request for extra security had been turned down .
the judges safety was thrust into focus last week after the shooting , which occurred on tuesday evening .
the next day , five out of seven judges failed to come to court to issue a judgment on an election petition seeking to delay the next day s presidential poll , sparking widespread speculation of intimidation .
a senior judicial source told reuters earlier this week that after the shooting the judges , who are normally allocated one bodyguard , had requested another vehicle , known as a chaser car , to follow or go ahead of them as they moved around the country .
the source , who was not available to speak on thursday , said this request was turned down .
the source also said the judges were upset at the government s characterisation of the shooting as a crime rather than an attempt to intimidate judges who had recently annulled the august election victory of president uhuru kenyatta .
the statement , issued by chief justice david maraga s office late on wednesday , said the story was wrong .
to the contrary , the inspector general of police has in fact enhanced the security of supreme court judges , it said .
it did not give further details .
interior ministry spokesman mwenda njoka said deputy chief justice philomena mwilu had been allocated six police to guard her after the shooting of her bodyguard , who is in hospital in stable condition .
he declined to comment on whether any other judges had requested extra security , but noted that both the interior minister and chief of police had promised they could have whatever they requested .
he said he was not able to give details of the extra security provided because that in itself would be a breach of security protocols .
kenyatta won the repeat presidential poll on oct. 26 with 98 percent of the vote after opposition leader raila odinga withdrew from the race , saying it would not be fair .
the repeat election was ordered by the supreme court after it nullified the results of a poll on aug. 8 due to procedural irregularities .
the election board said kenyatta won that election by 1.4 million votes .