jerusalem/beirut ( reuters ) - israel s military said on friday it was ready to protect a frontier village in syria held by the syrian government , where damascus said jihadist rebels exploded a car killing at least nine people .
the statement was an unusually explicit israeli pledge to intervene in the war in syria , where israeli officials are voicing deeper alarm at the role of iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah , which are fighting alongside the syrian government .
the israeli air force says it has struck arms convoys of the syrian military and hezbollah nearly 100 times in recent years .
its most recent strike was on wednesday according to the syrian government .
quneitra province in syria , where hader village is located , is particularly sensitive for israel because it lies next to the golan heights area that israel captured from syria in 1967 .
syrian rebel factions launched an attack on syrian government territory in quneitra on friday , with the aim of connecting two insurgent-held areas .
the attack included the car bomb in hader , which syrian state media attributed to the jihadist group formerly known as the nusra front .
a military media unit run by hezbollah said the insurgents attacked from three directions and made no gains after heavy fighting during the day .
it accused israel of firing a surface-to-surface missile at a syrian army position in the area .
syrian state media accused israel of giving various kinds of support to the nusra front .
in its statement , the israeli military denied any involvement with jihadist groups in the fighting .
the village of hader is populated by members of the druze , a minority religious sect present in syria , israel , the palestinian territories and lebanon .
israel s druze , some of whom have reached the senior echelons of the israeli military and government , have been calling for help on behalf of their brethren in syria , both at home and abroad .
the flashpoint village of hader has been of particular concern .
after friday s car bomb there , syrian state television broadcast footage it said was of residents of the israeli-controlled golan heights trying to cross the border to help people in hader .
druze residents tried to cross into syria , but were held back by israeli soldiers , israel s military said on twitter .
the idf ( israel defense forces ) is prepared and ready to assist the residents of the village and prevent damage to or the capture of the village hader out of commitment to the druze population , the military said in a statement .
israeli officials have previously said they were looking at the possibility of assisting hader , whose residents have druze kinsman lobbying on their behalf in israel .