tokyo ( reuters ) - tokyo governor yuriko koike on wednesday formally launched a new party promising conservative reform , stepping up her challenge to prime minister shinzo abe and adding to uncertainty about the outlook for a general election widely expected next month .
but the popular former ruling party lawmaker , who is already upstaging abe in the media and complicating forecasts , said she herself would not seek a seat in parliament s lower house now .
abe said on monday he would call the snap election to reset his mandate , betting that his liberal democratic party ( ldp ) and junior coalition party can keep their majority in parliament s lower house , where they hold a two-thirds super majority .
abe will dissolve the lower house on thursday for a vote expected on oct. 22 .
at a news conference launching her party of hope , koike repeated promises to form a party without ties to vested interests in order to reset japan .
if at this time we don t reset japan , we won t be able to sufficiently protect our international competitiveness and national security , said koike , a former defence minister who quit the ldp earlier this year .
there had been speculation that koike would choose to run in the election herself , but she said she would remain in her position as governor .
koike s new party is staking out a policy space similar to that of the conservative ldp and the right-wing of the main opposition democratic party , a mixture of conservatives and liberals .
but her calls for open government , a freeze on a planned sales tax hike from 2019 , an end to nuclear power and a promise to promote diversity give it a more populist tinge .
the nikkei business daily reported on wednesday that koike s party was in merger talks with the democrats and she had met with democratic party leader seiji maehara on tuesday for discussions , but koike made no reference to the issue .
the nikkei said prospects for a merger were uncertain , since koike has suggested she was not keen and the move could trigger a split in the democratic party .
the party has been struggling with single-digit support rates and several members have defected to run for koike s new party .
the democrats have also been in talks with the japanese communist party about cooperating to run unified candidates but conservatives , including maehara , are wary of that strategy .
koike , 65 , defied the ldp to run successfully for the tokyo governorship a year ago and fielded candidates who routed the ldp in an election for the metropolitan assembly in july .
koike has said she aimed to push reformist policies , open government and an end to reliance on nuclear power .
she has also called for a freeze on a plan to raise the national sales tax to 10 percent from 8 percent in 2019 .
abe said he would go ahead with the tax hike and spend some of the revenue on education and child care .
abe s decision to go to the polls is seen as an effort to take advantage of confusion in the opposition camp and an uptick in his support rates , which have rebounded to around 50 percent amid jitters over north korea s nuclear and missile programmes .
his support had fallen below 30 percent in july due to suspected cronyism scandals .