caracas/ciudad guayana , venezuela ( reuters ) - there was no way jose ramon garcia , a food transporter in venezuela , could afford new tires for his van at $ 350 each .
whether he opted to pay in u.s. currency or in the devalued local bolivar currency at the equivalent black market price , garcia would have had to save up for years .
though used to expensive repairs , this one was too much and put him out of business .
repairs cost an arm and a leg in venezuela , said the now-unemployed 42-year-old garcia , who has a wife and two children to support in the southern city of guayana .
there s no point keeping bolivars .
for a decade and a half , strict exchange controls have severely limited access to dollars .
a black market in hard currency has spread in response , and as once-sky-high oil revenue runs dry , venezuela s economy is in free-fall .
the practice adopted by gourmet and design stores in caracas over the last couple of years to charge in dollars to a select group of expatriates or venezuelans with access to greenbacks is fast spreading .
food sellers , dental and medical clinics , and others are starting to charge in dollars or their black market equivalent - putting many basic goods and services out of reach for a large number of venezuelans .
according to the opposition-led national assembly , november s rise in prices topped academics traditional benchmark for hyperinflation of more than 50 percent a month - and could end the year at 2,000 percent .
the government has not published inflation data for more than a year .
i can t think in bolivars anymore , because you have to give a different price every hour , said yoselin aguirre , 27 , who makes and sells jewelry in the paraguana peninsula and has recently pegged prices to the dollar .
to survive , you have to dollarize .
the socialist government of the late president hugo chavez in 2003 brought in the strict controls in order to curb capital flight , as the wealthy sought to move money out of venezuela after a coup attempt and major oil strike the previous year .
oil revenue was initially able to bolster artificial exchange rates , though the black market grew and now is becoming unmanageable for the government .
president nicolas maduro has maintained his predecessor s policies on capital controls .
yet , the spread between the strongest official rate , of some 10 bolivars per dollar , and the black market rate , of around 110,000 per dollar , is now huge .
while sellers see a shift to hard currency as necessary , buyers sometimes blame them for speculating .
rafael vetencourt , 55 , a steel worker in ciudad guayana , needed a prostate operation priced at $ 250 .
we don t earn in dollars .
it s abusive to charge in dollars !
said vetencourt , who had to decimate his savings to pay for the surgery .
in just one year , venezuela s currency has weakened 97.5 per cent against the greenback , meaning $ 1,000 of local currency purchased then would be worth just $ 25 now .
maduro blames black market rate-publishing websites such as dolartoday for inflating the numbers , part of an economic war he says is designed by the opposition and washington to topple him .
on venezuela s borders with brazil and colombia , the prices of imported oil , eggs and wheat flour vary daily in line with the black market price for bolivars .
in an upscale caracas market , cheese-filled arepas , the traditional breakfast made with corn flour , increased 65 percent in price in just two weeks , according to tracking by reuters reporters .
in the same period , a kilogram of ham jumped a whopping 171 percent .
the runaway prices have dampened christmas celebrations , which this season were characterized by shortages of pine trees and toys , as well as meat , chicken and cornmeal for the preparation of typical dishes .
in one grim festive joke , a christmas tree in maracaibo , the country s oil capital and second city , was decorated with virtually worthless low-denomination bolivar bills .
most venezuelans , earning just $ 5 a month at the black market rate , are nowhere near being able to save hard currency .
how do i do it ?
i earn in bolivars and have no way to buy foreign currency , said cristina centeno , a 31-year-old teacher who , like many , was seeking remote work online before christmas in order to bring in some hard currency .