cnn tries to pass off radical angela rye as a sane analyst but we know her history and believe her to be very far left .
she just made that statement that statues and monuments to two of america s most prominent founding fathers , george washington and thomas jefferson , need to come down .
cnn host kate bolduan asked rye if the country s ongoing discussion about race and white supremacy , spurred by the violence in charlottesville va. last weekend , is really about confederate statues and monuments.rye , a former executive director of the congressional black caucus , said the problem is people are taught american history incorrectly , because they are only told about the glories of the country s past , not darker issues like racism.she added that because george washington and other great american historical figures owned slaves , they deserved to be called out and recognized not for their accomplishments , but for their title of slave owner .
george washington was a slave owner , and we need to call slave owners out for what they are , whether we think they were protecting american freedom or not , rye said .
he wasn t protecting my freedom .
my ancestors weren t deemed human beings to him .
so to me , i don t care if it s a george washington statue or a thomas jefferson statue or a robert e. lee statue .
they all need to come down , rye said .
read more : wfbwhat you might not know about angela rye : there is nothing un-american about reparations angela ryeangela rye , former executive director of the congressional black caucus , is one angry woman !
she spews racist talking points like crazy without much rebuke from carl higbie .
rye makes a claim that trump achieved his success off of the backs of poor people : the very people who you re talking about who you think are looking for free gifts and handouts are people who have been disenfranchised since they got off the slave ship in this country .
angela ryecnn needs to ditch this angry woman for someone who can make valid points :