tokyo ( reuters ) - japan is preparing to acquire precision air-launched missiles that for the first time would give it the capability to strike north korean missile sites , two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said .
japan plans to put money aside in its next defense budget starting april to study whether its f-15 fighters could launch longer-range missiles including lockheed martin corp s extended-range joint air-to-surface standoff missile ( jassm-er ) , which can hit targets 1,000 km ( 620 miles ) away , said one the sources with knowledge of the plan .
there is a global trend for using longer range missiles and it is only natural that japan would want to consider them , he said .
the sources asked to remain anonymous as they were not authorized to talk to media .
japan is also interested in buying the 500 km-range joint strike missile designed by norway s kongsberg defence & aerospace to be carried by the f-35 stealth fighter , fuji television reported earlier .
neither of those two items are included in a 5.26 trillion yen ( $ 46.76 billion ) budget request already submitted by japan s ministry of defence , however additional funds would be made available to evaluate the purchase of these missiles , the sources said .
the change suggests that the growing threat posed by north korean ballistic missiles has given proponents of a strike capability the upper hand in military planning .
restrictions on strike weapons imposed by its war-renouncing constitution means japan s missile force is composed of anti-aircraft and anti-ship munitions with ranges of less than 300 kms ( 186 miles ) .
any decision to buy longer range weapons capable of striking north korea or even the chinese mainland would therefore be controversial , but proponents argue that the strike weapons can play a defensive role .
we are not currently looking at funding for this , japanese defense minister itsunori onodera said on tuesday at a regular press briefing .
we rely on the united states to strike enemy bases and are not looking at making any changes to how we share our roles , he added .
before he took up his post in august , onodera led a group of ruling liberal democratic party lawmakers that recommended japan acquire strike weapons to deter pyongyang from launching any attack on japan .
north korea has since fired ballistic missiles over japan and last week tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile that climbed to an altitude of more than 4,000 km before splashing into the sea of japan within japan s exclusive economic zone .