gaza ( reuters ) - tens of thousands of palestinians including hundreds of gunmen rallied in gaza on thursday to mark the 30th anniversary of hamas s founding and its chief vowed to reverse u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
earlier in the day , israel shut its border crossings with gaza in response to daily rocket fire from the hamas-ruled enclave since trump s announcement on dec. 6 , which stirred anger across the arab and muslim world and concern among washington s european allies as well as russia .
we will knock down trump s decision .
no superpower is capable of offering jerusalem to israel , there is no israel that it should have a capital named jerusalem .
our souls , our blood , our sons and our homes are a sacrifice for jerusalem , hamas leader ismail haniyeh told the rally in gaza city .
with gunmen from other palestinian militant groups showing support for hamas , haniyeh added , we are marching towards jerusalem , sacrificing millions of martyrs along the way , and the crowd repeated his chants .
israeli aircraft struck three hamas facilities before dawn after the latest rocket salvo , israel s military said .
it said it targeted training camps and weapons storage compounds .
hamas usually evacuates such facilities when border tensions rise .
two of the rockets fired by militants were intercepted by israel s iron dome anti-missile system and a third exploded in an open area of southern israel .
there were no reports of casualties on either side of the frontier .
the military said in a statement that due to the security events and in accordance with security assessments , kerem shalom crossing - the main passage point for goods entering gaza - and the erez pedestrian crossing would be shut as of thursday .
it did not say how long the closure would last .
around 15 rockets have been fired into southern israel since trump s announcement .
none of the projectiles has caused serious injury or damage .
the attacks have drawn israeli air strikes that have killed two hamas gunmen .
two other palestinians have been killed in confrontations with israeli troops during stone-throwing protests along the border .
israeli cabinet minister tzachi hanegbi said on israel radio that while hamas , which last fought a war with israel in 2014 , was not responsible for the rocket fire , it needed to rein in militants from breakaway groups or it would find itself in a situation where it has to contend with the israeli military .
in istanbul on wednesday , a summit of more than 50 muslim countries condemned trump s move and urged the world to respond by recognizing east jerusalem , captured by israel along with the west bank in a 1967 war , as the capital of palestine .
palestinians want east jerusalem for the capital of a future state they seek in israeli-occupied territory .
trump s declaration has been applauded by israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu as a recognition of political reality and jews biblical links to jerusalem , a city that is also holy to muslims and christians .
nazareth , the israeli arab city where jesus is thought to have been raised , has canceled some christmas celebrations in protest at trump s move , officials there said .
there was no word from bethlehem , the palestinian west bank town that is jesus s traditional birthplace , whether it was also weighing a cutback on its celebrations at a crucial time of year for the its tourist trade .