beijing ( reuters ) - a senior military officer who sits on china s powerful central military commission , which is headed by president xi jinping , is being questioned on suspicion of corruption , three sources familiar with the situation said .
fang fenghui had been chief of the joint staff department of the people s liberation army until he was replaced late last month , with no official word on what had happened to him , whether he had taken up another post , or had retired .
fang fenghui was questioned regarding economic problems , a source with ties to the leadership told reuters .
economic problems is often used as a euphemism for corruption in china .
another source familiar with the situation said : they ve detained him .
it s on suspicion of corruption , said the second source , who also spoke on condition of anonymity .
the third source also confirmed fang was being questioned .
it was not clear if the questioning would lead to a formal indictment .
chinese officials are sometimes questioned informally and then released .
china s defence ministry did not respond to a request for comment on whether fang had been detained or was being questioned .
it was also not possible to reach fang or a representative for comment and it was unclear if he had been allowed to retain a lawyer .
fighting corruption in the military has been a focus of xi s broader crackdown on deep-seated graft , a problem he has warned is so serious that it could affect the ruling communist party s grip on power .
dozens of officers have been investigated and jailed , including xu caihou and guo boxiong , both former vice chairmen of the central military commission .
guo was jailed for life last year .
xu died of cancer in 2015 before he could face trial .
the 11-man central military commission is in overall charge of china s military , headed by xi and made up of the most senior military officers .
at a monthly news conference last week , defense ministry spokesman ren guoqiang declined to comment on where fang was or if he had been given another position .
wen asked about fang , ren said : we are not aware of it .
fang turns 67 next year , an age at which many chinese officials retire .
his last public appearance was on aug. 21 , when he met a senior thai military officer in beijing .
he also met joseph dunford , chairman of the u.s. joint chiefs of staff , on aug. 15 .
fang was also part of xi s delegation that met u.s. president donald trump at trump s mar-a-lago estate in florida in april .
the questioning of fang comes ahead of next month s once-every-five-years communist party congress , at which xi will look to further cement his tight grip on power .
the party has already begun a military reshuffle connected with the congress , announcing last week new chiefs for the army and the air force .
the official people s liberation army daily said last month the military needed to be on its guard against corruption rearing its head again , warning that the arrow can not be put back in the quiver .
serving and retired officers have said graft in the armed forces is so pervasive it could undermine china s ability to wage war .
the anti-graft drive comes as xi steps up efforts to modernize forces that are projecting power across the disputed waters of the east and south china seas , although china has not fought a war in decades .