london ( reuters ) - spanish stocks were set for their biggest day of gains in more than five months on thursday as nerves over an imminent declaration of catalan independence eased .
spain s constitutional court suspended a session of the catalan parliament scheduled for monday in which local leaders were expected to declare secession .
traders also cited a bloomberg report of a rift between pro-independence leaders .
spain s 10-year bond yield fell to as low as 1.68 percent , and at 1540 gmt was down 8 basis points and set for its biggest daily fall since april .
there is the sentiment catalan separatists are maybe a bit less die-hard than they were previously , said jerome legras , head of research at axiom alternative investments .
spanish markets were already recovering earlier in the day , but traders said the main share index and banking stocks jumped after the bloomberg report which , citing sources , said moderate separatists were pushing for further negotiations with the central government .
the decision to suspend monday s parliamentary session , which the court said was because it had agreed to consider a legal challenge filed by the anti-secessionist catalan socialist party , had already thrown the independence bid into doubt .
spain s main share index jumped as much as 2.7 percent , boosted by financial stocks which together added 120 points to the index , with santander the biggest contributor .
catalonia-headquartered banco sabadell and caixabank jumped higher , last up 6.2 percent and 4.9 percent respectively .
caixabank joined sabadell in saying it was considering moving its base outside catalonia as a result of the crisis .
trading activity in spanish government debt has rocketed this week as the crisis deepened .
around 7.8 billion euros of spanish government debt changed hands on wednesday , 75 percent higher than the daily trading average since january 2016 , according to trax , a subsidiary of trading platform marketaxess .
on thursday , spain s 10-year government bond was the most traded euro government security , the data firm said .