on march 20 , 2016 barkley had this to say about obama : listen , you people in america who are upset that president obama did a [ march madness ncaa basketball ] bracket why don t ya ll just go say you don t like him because he s black .
he continued , cut through all the bs don t say he take too many vacations just say , we don t like him because he s black . '
via : tmzless than a month ago , charles barkley said anyone who disagrees with obama does so because they are discriminating against him because he is black .
and now , according to the all-knowing former nba star , anyone who believes the religious rights of business owners should be protected is discriminating against gays .
what about white christians charles ?
are they entitled to any protections , or do you have to fall into some sort of minority category in order to have any rights or protections in the new progressive america ?
charles barkley wants to move all-star game due to 'anti-lgbt ' lawhttps : //t.co/p0hk7fpjfo fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) april 8 , 2016retired professional basketball player and nba analyst charles barkley has been bringing politics into this year s march madness tournament left and right.his latest comments center around indiana s religious freedom act , the left s latest punching bag .
discrimination in any form is unacceptable to me , barkley said friday in a statement released through his agent to usa today .
as long as anti-gay legislation exists in any state , i strongly believe big events such as the final four and super bowl should not be held in those states cities .
the religous freedom act prevents indiana state and local governments from substantially burdening a person s ability to exercise their religion unless the government can show that it has a compelling interest and that the action is the least-restrictive means of achieving it , according to the indianapolis star.the legislation , which will take effect july 1 , makes no specific mention of sexual orientation , but it was quickly dubbed anti-gay by opponents.barkley also turned the popular basketball tournament political when he made comments about president obama s march madness bracket .
he said that people were criticizing obama for filling out a bracket because he s black .
via : red alert politics