the u.s. secret service is investigating a facebook post from missouri state sen. maria chappelle-nadal , d-university city , in which she stated : i hope trump is assassinated !
a conversation between mo state senator maria chappelle-nadal and christopher gagn of ferguson , mo , ( in his facebook profile he claims he s an investigative journalist focused on social justice , police misconduct and prison reform ) was screen shot and saved before either party had a chance to delete it .
the conversation included the senator openly hoping that president trump would be assassinated and facebook user christophe gagne , who told her that his cousin is on president trump s secret service detail .
gagn s comments seem to infer that his cousin is being forced to protect president trump because he had to sign up for 6 years of service and has already served 4 years of his contract protecting barack obama .
gagn went on to say , i truly believe [ it ] will happen sooner not later .
while referring to the assassination of our president.for obvious reasons , everyone seems to be focused on what the mo state senator said when she openly hoped for trump s assassination , but shouldn t the secret service be making a call to christopher gagn who claims to have a cousin assigned to protecting the life of our president and claiming that he will be assassinated sooner than later ?
does gagn have some sort of an inside scoop ?
for all we know , gagn may not even be telling the truth about having a cousin on president trump s secret service detail , but sure seems it would certainly be worth the time it would take for the secret service to look into it .
st. louis post-dispatch : chappelle-nadal s comment , referring to president donald trump , has since been removed .
but chappelle-nadal confirmed to the post-dispatch that she had written it in response to another commenter before deleting it .
i didn t mean what i put up .
absolutely not .
i was very frustrated , chappelle-nadal told the newspaper .
things have got to change .
the u.s. secret service s st. louis field office is looking into this , the office confirmed.kristina schmidt , special agent in charge , told the post-dispatch that hypothetically in such investigations , agents try to determine intent , to determine if there was a violation of federal law .
if there is , then we refer it to the u.s. attorney .
our primary goal is to determine if there is intent and meaning behind it , schmidt said.according to a screenshot of the now-deleted conversation obtained by the post-dispatch , another commenter named christopher gagn was writing about a cousin of his who he said was on trump s secret service detail .
but , what i posted earlier , i truly believe will happen , sooner not later , he wrote .