a disrespectful teacher at sherman jr senior high school in west virginia wore a tuck frump jacket during classes .
a student s picture went viral.we re just wondering why this teacher wasn t fired on the spot !
she s promoting her political beliefs in school and disrespecting our president with a twist on profanity .
not funny and not cute no matter how short the time was that she wore the jacket her excuse doesn t fly.what say you ? boone county , w.va. ( wsaz ) boone county schools is investigating after a picture of a teacher is circulating on social media and getting major attention .
the picture shows a teacher inside her classroom wearing a jacket with an anti-trump patch on the back of it.the snapshot was of sherman junior high and high school teacher cheryl judy who is an art teacher at the school.the picture shows judy sporting a jean jacket with a play on words , disrespecting president trump.judy confirmed that she is the one in the photo , but says it does not show the whole story .
she says she wore the jacket to school without the anti-trump patch and pinned it on during school hours , trying it on for just two minutes to make sure the patch was on straight .
she says in the short period of time she had the jacket on inside the classroom , a like-minded student snapped a picture and posted it to social media.a community member re-posted the picture , and it has since been shared several thousand times on multiple platforms.judy says she did not flaunt the jacket at school and although she is liberal , would never force her liberalism on others .
although huffman can not comment specifically on personnel matters , he says a full investigation will begin once spring break is over , at the end of the week : we expect professionalism with both conduct and appearance it seems to have caused great a bit , a great amount of concern from around the area and around the nation , as we ve received multiple phone calls today .
community reactions were mixed , on facebook and in the neighborhood nearby the school , some expressing concern , others outrage and some saying the picture is being taken out of context and being made into a bigger deal than it is .
nobody thought it would blow up like that , said braxton harless , who is a junior at the high school .
some are upset .
some just really don t care about it .
some parents are calling for judy s resignation , while others like lori selbe say she may not have made the right decision is putting on the jacket but says everyone makes mistakes.via : wsaz