( reuters ) - michigan governor rick snyder has urged federal officials to reconsider their denial for funds to help deal with the crisis caused by lead-contaminated water in the city of flint , his office said on thursday .
the contamination and the state ’ s long delay in addressing the problem have sparked outrage and drawn attention from u.s. presidential candidates .
in the latest appeal to the federal emergency management agency , snyder is requesting money to pay for food , water and other essential needs ; the removal of health and safety hazards ; activation of emergency operations centers ; measures to avoid further damage ; and homeowners ’ repairs not covered by insurance .
a fema spokesman said snyder ’ s appeal was under review by the agency .
the agency turned down an earlier request for financial help in january because the areas in which snyder requested aid were deemed not appropriate , but has provided non-monetary support in the form of a fema coordinator .
also in january , snyder asked for federal declarations of emergency and major disaster .
president barack obama approved the federal emergency declaration , but denied a major disaster declaration .
snyder appealed that decision and was denied .
snyder said on thursday that flint needed continued local , state , federal and national efforts .
“ assistance from our federal partners could go a long way in moving flint forward , ” he said .
activists and some democratic state lawmakers have demanded that snyder resign , but a spokesman said the republican governor had no intention of stepping down .
snyder is scheduled to testify before a u.s. congressional committee on march 17 .
also on thursday , snyder said the federal government approved a waiver allowing for medicaid coverage for children and pregnant women in flint .
flint , a predominantly black city of 100,000 about 60 miles ( 100 km ) northwest of detroit , was under the control of a state-appointed emergency manager when it switched the source of its tap water from detroit ’ s system to the flint river in april 2014 .
the city switched back last october after tests found high levels of lead in blood samples taken from children .
water from the flint river , which was more corrosive than detroit ’ s , leached lead from the city ’ s pipes , posing widespread health risks .
experts have said it could take some time for anti-corrosive chemicals now being added to the water to re-coat pipes so that they will not leach more lead .
meanwhile , flint officials said they would begin replacing lead pipes running to homes with copper on friday as part of a $ 55 million project .