tbilisi ( reuters ) - a former islamic state fighter suspected of masterminding a deadly attack on istanbul airport in 2016 was killed during a special operation in ex-soviet georgia last week , a spokeswoman for georgia s state security service said on friday .
akhmed chatayev was named by turkish media and a u.s. congressman as the mastermind of the suicide bombing of istanbul airport in 2016 which killed 45 people .
his involvement has not been corroborated by turkish officials .
it s confirmed that one of those killed during the operation is akhmed chatayev , nino giorgobiani , a spokeswoman for georgia s state security service , told a news briefing .
giorgobiani said that chatayev blew himself up .
one georgian special forces serviceman and two other members of the armed group , which was suspected of terrorism , were killed in the same operation .
four police officers were wounded and one member of the group was also arrested .
the 20-hour operation took place at an apartment block on the outskirts of the georgian capital tbilisi last week .
giorgobiani declined to name the two other armed men killed or disclose the identity of the member of the group who was arrested , the group s motives , or how they got to georgia .
the investigation is ongoing ... we continue to work with our international partners to identify the other two ( armed men ) , giorgobiani said .
she said that experts from the united states had been participating in the investigation .
a united nations sanctions list describes chatayev as a senior figure in islamic state responsible for training russian-speaking militants .
a veteran of chechnya s conflict with moscow during which he lost an arm , he lived in georgia s pankisi gorge , a remote area populated largely by people from the kist community , ethnic chechens whose ancestors came to mainly christian georgia in the 1800s .
when , after the collapse of the soviet union , chechnya rose up in an armed rebellion against moscow s rule , the kist community were drawn to the fight .
thousands of refugees arrived from chechnya , and some insurgents used the gorge to regroup and prepare new attacks .
chatayev was wounded and arrested in georgia in august 2012 following a clash between the georgian police and a group of militants , who were allegedly trying to cross the georgian-russian border and move to dagestan .