the drip drip drip of communism in the leftist state of california a new california law scheduled to take effect friday will allow the police to seize private , legally-owned weapons for up to three weeks without charges or allowing the citizen to contest the seizure.ab1014 was passed last year in the wake of 2014 s isla vista shooting , where teenager elliot rodger went on a rampage near the campus of the university of california , santa barbara , killing six people along with himself.rodger s parents had reported him to the police prior to the shooting , concerned about his mental health and rants he posted online .
but after meeting with rodger , police decided he wasn t a criminal risk , and consequently didn t search his apartment , where he was stockpiling weapons and ammunition.the new law is intended to stop such a situation from re-occurring .
under the law , a judge has the power to grant a restraining order telling police to seize a person s guns , based solely on accounts from family members or police that the person is poses an imminent danger to others .
the restraining order can be granted without the affected person knowing it exists or being allowed time to contest it.under the law , the factors a judge can consider in granting the restraining order include not only threats of violence , but also prior felony arrests ( even without a conviction ) , evidence of alcohol abuse , and even the simple act of recently purchasing a gun or ammunition.once granted , police can use the restraining order to confiscate all of a person s guns and ammunition , and the person is also barred from buying or possessing guns and ammo for the duration of the order .
a full court hearing must then be heard within three weeks .
at that hearing , a judge will be able to extend the restraining order for an entire year .
the law gives us a vehicle to cause the person to surrender their weapons , to have a time out , if you will , los angeles police department assistant chief michael moore told southern california public radio .
it allows further examination of the person s mental state .
the law expands on california gun laws that are already some of the country s toughest .
police already have the power to seize a person s guns if a licensed therapist informs them that the person s mental state makes them a danger to themselves or others .
via : daily caller