seoul ( reuters ) - hoping a thaw in relations with china will reopen opportunities after a diplomatic spat earlier this year cost many of them business , some 300 south korean executives joined president moon jae-in for the start of his four-day trip to china on wednesday .
the delegation was the largest to accompany a south korean leader abroad , and reflected the value the firms placed on mending ties with their country s biggest trading partner .
trade and business exchanges between the two countries froze earlier this year after south korea deployed u.s.-made terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) anti-missile system regardless of vehement objections from beijing .
among those who traveled were executives from some of the firms hit hardest by the backlash , including lotte group and cosmetics and entertainment firms such as amorepacific and s.m .
entertainment .
addressing around 500 chinese and south korean businessmen at a forum in beijing , moon stressed the need to build a systemic foundation for a stable economic cooperation .
moon said he expects to sign a memorandum with president xi jinping at a summit on thursday , a step toward follow-up negotiations of the south korea-china free trade agreement ( fta ) concerning services and investments .
this is expected to expand the entry of both countries companies into service industries , and revitalize mutual investments , he said .
the thaad disagreement knocked about 0.4 percentage points off expected economic growth in south korea this year and resulted in lost revenues of around $ 6.5 billion from chinese tourists in the first nine months of the year , as the number of visitors fell by half .
anti-south korean sentiment also battered firms sales of entertainment , cosmetics and cars in china .
multiple officials from south korea s largest companies told reuters they hoped that moon s visit to china would mark the next step toward improving ties after the two governments reached an initial agreement in late october to move past the dispute .
still , they were doubtful whether a sudden turnaround in business relations would be achieved over the coming days .
if you look at earlier cases , it takes several , gradual steps for unspoken reprisals to be eased , said an official from a korean firm accompanying moon who declined to be identified as the matter was sensitive .
we re hoping this is a key step .
reuters spoke to around 20 of the south korean firms represented in the delegation , and none had any fresh investment or business deal announcements planned .
instead , an official at game developer wemade entertainment co ltd , whose ceo attended the forum , said executives would be looking to reopen dialogue with chinese counterparts .
rather than having a specific agenda , we are hoping for a space to discuss various matters , the official said .
in late november , china allowed travel agencies in beijing and shandong to resume some sales of group tours to south korea , but tour agencies were told not to include south korean retail-to-chemicals giant lotte group in travel packages .
lotte , which provided the land where the thaad system was installed , was hardest hit in the diplomatic standoff .
its chain of hypermarkets and supermarkets in china were largely shuttered , and it is expected to sell the stores for a fraction of what it invested .
the conglomerate previously said it planned to sell the stores by the end of this year , but the talks have been in a stalemate , a lotte group official said , declining to be identified due to the sensitivities .
still , the official hoped the summit would ease the way for the planned sales of hypermarkets in china and lead to a full lifting of group tour bans .
we have big hopes about the summit , the official said .