editor s note : it was late winter when i got a call from a mutual bowhunting friend who told me donald trump jr. was a serious bowhunter and he might agree to an interview .
i decided it would make an interesting article so i accepted the opportunity and that article appeared in our april/may issue.in that editorial i clearly stated this was not a political endorsement of donald trump sr .
some readers were skeptical .
but , the fact is , if donald trump jr. were not an experienced bowhunter the article would never have appeared in bowhunter magazine or here now at bowhunter.com .
take a look and let us know what you think.q : so , how does the son of a wealthy new york real estate developer find his way to the woods carrying a bow and arrows ? a : well , my love for the outdoors came from my grandfather , milos zelnicek , a blue-collar electrician who lived in the communist czech republic .
he saw the lifestyle we lived here and understood both the good of that life , and the pitfalls , and he wanted to make sure we saw the other side of life .
as youngsters , my brother eric and i spent six to eight weeks every summer with him .
he would say , there s the woods ; go have fun , and my brother and i immersed ourselves in the outdoors .
he taught us how to shoot homemade stickbows , and we were amazed how much amusement we could get out of those crude bows and arrows .
i just had a knack for it .
since then , most of my bowhunting has been self-taught , so the learning curve was slow because i made every mistake possible .
the good thing about that is those lessons are well-learned .
by the time i went to college in philadelphia , i was driving back and forth on the weekends to go bowhunting , and i ve been into bowhunting ever since.q : i know you hunt with firearms , but what would your bowhunting resume look like ?
do you have a favorite species to hunt ? a : well , favorite is subjective , and what i love about hunting is it is seasonal .
so about the time i ve had enough of sitting in a whitetail stand , i get a bit of a lull and then i go right into turkey season .
then summer comes , and i ve been fortunate to have done quite a bit of bowhunting in africa , and i ve taken 15 or 16 species there .
then fall comes and i m out west , where i ve taken elk and numerous mule deer .
i ve also hunted sheep and caribou , but mostly with a rifle .
of course , whitetails are big for me because they re the most accessible .
i can roll out of bed at my cabin and choose from five treestands within 500 yards of the front door.q : what kind of archery tackle and gear do you hunt with ? a : well , i shoot both traditional and compound bows mostly traditional around home , and then a compound when i hunt out west .
right now i m shooting mathews compounds , and i have a number of recurves , including das bows from 3rivers archery and a couple of black widows .
i m a do-it-yourself kind of guy .
i cut and fletch my own arrows , especially the traditional shafts .
i think tuning is just as critical on traditional gear , because you have to tune the arrow more than the bow .
a 25-grain change in point weight , especially with broadheads , can make a huge difference , and i m always tweaking my arrows to get the best flight .
with a compound , i m tuning the bow more than the arrow .
i have a bow press , so i do all that stuff myself.donald-trump-jr-bowhuntingi shoot fixed-blade broadheads with my traditional gear , and mechanicals out of my compounds .
twenty years ago , when mechanicals first emerged , i had problems shooting deer broadside and having the arrow almost bounce off .
the technology has improved , and now i m having great luck with rage hypodermics.q : your knowledge of all things archery and bowhunting tells me you re a detail-oriented guy .
that is also very important in the corporate world .
which came first ? a : certainly it came from the outdoors , because i started so early .
in archery , if you want to be good , you have to pay attention to details .
i m not satisfied with a six-inch group at 20 yards .
if my fletchings are not all touching in a tight group , i m working to find out why .
archery has taught me so much discipline , and a willingness to accept a challenge , and all that translates into the business world .
my friends here in new york city call me the fifth avenue redneck .
q : is your brother as passionate about the outdoors as you are ? a : yes , he is .
we work two offices down from each other , and every weekend we re doing some kind of shooting together .
he s my number-one hunting buddy , and we don t do anything halfway.q : you and your wife , vanessa , have five children .
does she get out in the field or on the range with you ? a : she will , but she is mama bear to the extreme , with five kids under eight years old .
she s an incredible wife and mother , but she is a freakishly talented shooter , especially with a high-powered rifle .
she has a pse bow , and she shoots it well , too .
i will say the archery industry has done a better job than any other industry in getting women into the game and encouraging them to participate , whether it s on the shooting side or the hunting side .
and that interest filters down to the kids .
my four-year-old knows a caribou from an elk , and a trout from a bass .
it s amazing what they will absorb , and the whole family benefits.q : some hunters say they just don t have time to bowhunt .
how does an ultra-busy new york real estate developer find the time to grab his bow and go hunting ? a : listen , it s about prioritization .
the outdoor lifestyle is very important to me .
we head for our country place every friday night .
with mobile technology , i can work anywhere in the world , and i don t think we ve spent a weekend in the city as a family since my daughter was born.i m not exaggerating when i say i am doing some form of shooting 48 weekends out of the year .
i don t get that much vacation time , but i make sure i get in at least one major hunting trip every year .
and there are times when i m working on a deal and i decide i am done for the day .
that deal can wait until i am out of the tree and back on my computer .
i make time for hunting and fishing.q : what other benefits has hunting given you over the years ? a : well , the anticipation of an upcoming adventure keeps me sane , it helps me work harder when i am working , and it also helps keep me in shape .
i don t work out because i love working out .
if i have a sheep hunt coming up , i work hard to get in shape .
usually the guide will figure , yeah this guy talks a good game , but he s from the city , he s trump s kid , and he ll never hold up .
my goal is to show the guide i can handle myself on the mountain .
if he knows i m up for it , he ll take me into places he may not take everyone else.q : i imagine in your business life you run into antihunting types .
how do you handle them ? a : i m certainly not loved by a lot of those people because i don t apologize or renounce hunting and fishing , and i don t back down .
that s not my style .
of course , they will never let the facts get in the way of their campaign against hunting , but i hit them back by saying , here are the benefits for conservation , and here are the facts about wildlife and hunting .
i m a big believer in the hunting and conservation mindset and the value that hunters bring , not only in this country , but all over the world.q : how is your relationship with your father , and what does he think of your love of hunting ? a : he s been very supportive , but he grew up in queens , new york .
he s an avid golfer who spent his life building a company .
that was his focus .
he takes pride in my accomplishments , but it s probably too late to introduce him to hunting and fishing .
that said , my brother and i are good sounding boards for him.my father knows what he doesn t know , and he will defer to those who do know .
you can bet eric and i will be in his ear when it comes to things we value .
and my father is a very vocal supporter of the 2nd amendment .
maybe it s because he s a new york guy , but he doesn t get the credit he deserves for that support.q : do you think your father is surprised by how well he has done in the campaign ? a : my father would never do anything that he didn t think he had a good shot at .
he has done everything he wanted to do in his life and could sit back and play golf every day .
but that s not his style .
he s a true american and a true patriot , and he s sick of the lies and nonsense in washington and the crony capitalism , which is why he s funding his own campaign .
he doesn t want to be bought .
he wants to do what s right for the country not what s right for some lobby group.q : some would say that with your resources , wouldn t it be easier to just spend all your time hunting and fishing ?
why work ? a : it s not so simple .
part of what makes me the person i am is we were not spoiled financially .
we had to work .
we were not just given everything , and i know it s hard to say that in america today .
people throw out the old silver spoon thing , but that s not the way we were raised by my father and grandfather .
we started work young , and my dad often made sure we had to earn whatever we got .
being a trust-fund baby is not my style.i graduated from the wharton school of finance at the university of pennsylvania , then moved to colorado and spent 18 months working as a bartender and fly fishing and hunting all the time .
i wanted to take a break before i started my career in the business world .
i m just not programmed to not be working.q : you once said , hunting forces a person to endure , to master themselves , even to truly get to know the wild environment .
actually , along the way , hunting and fishing makes you fall in love with the natural world .
every hunter can identify with that quote .
do your nonhunting acquaintances get you ?
a : i m a pretty vocal proponent of the outdoors .
i ve introduced dozens of new yorkers to the outdoors who would likely never be exposed to it .
i ve taken them shooting for a weekend , or hunting upland birds , and every one , even the ones who may have been squeamish about the idea at first , has said it was one of the most fun weekends of their life .
my friends here in new york city call me the fifth avenue redneck .
they no longer call me when they have something planned in the city on the weekends , because they know i m in the woods somewhere .
the outdoors has been good to me , and it kept me out of trouble .
i believe in the outdoor lifestyle and the benefits it brings to my life , and i want to make sure it is still there for my children and other people s children in the future.q : so what would you say is your most memorable bowhunting moment ? a : i ve been really lucky to do some cool stuff all over the world , but i would have to say the first elk i got with a bow .
it was during my time in colorado when i had two friends who were u.s .
ski team members .
we spent 28 days hunting elk on public land .
it was a diy hunt , and we were in great shape and hunted hard .
one of my buddies tagged his elk on the 15th day , and the other on the 20th day .
we packed their bulls out on our backs , and had a great experience .
on the very last day , the day before i was to drive back to new york to start my career , we were hiking up a very steep slope toward a bugling bull .
suddenly , i saw a hoof step down through the brush 10 yards in front of me .
i couldn t see the bull , but i signaled to my buddy to start cow-calling .
when the bull started moving toward an opening i drew my bow , and when the vitals cleared at seven yards , i took the shot .
luckily the bull ran downhill , which made the pack out quite a bit easier .
but after 28 long days of grueling hiking and hard hunting , that 4 4 raghorn is still the greatest animal i ve been able to take because of the intensity of the hunt and the effort expended .
the three of us defied the odds by all tagging out on bow-killed elk .
it was an unforgettable experience.by now you know preconceived notions do not always translate into reality .
yes , there are plenty of big-city businessmen who are serious bowhunters , but prior to this interview donald trump jr. would not have appeared on my list.he and his brother eric are two great examples of the transcendent nature of hunting with a bow and arrow .
this passion we all love casts a wide net across every walk of life from rich to poor , young to old , city to country .
the flight of the arrow is capable of capturing the imagination of anyone given the opportunity to experience it.we can all learn from the late milos zelnicek .
if you share the outdoors and archery with a youngster , or anyone for that matter , the magic will happen on its own.you just never know who will become one of us.read more : bowhunter