this is political correctness run amuck with the effort of a city councilman to change the name of a fair that s been in existence since the 50 s !
the dixie classic fair is suddenly an offensive name just like the confederate flag was all of a sudden offensive .
what about dixie crystals sugar or dixie cups ?
is it that any word that brings a negative emotion out in someone is banned for fear they may be offended ?
if everyone tried to ban a word that offended them then we d have no more words left or is it just the black community that can be offended by a word ?
which is it ? i love this billboard from the fair : winston-salem , n.c. every year , thousands of people flock to the dixie classic fair .
whether it is the rides , the food or the history , it continues to be an annual favorite.however , winston-salem councilman james taylor told fox8 that some of the people he represents find the dixie classic fair name to be offensive .
taylor said that some people are angry with the name and believes the city should consider changing it .
he added that as a city that is progressive and is continuing to move forward , they need a name that everyone can appreciate .
he says his goal is to find a name that doesn t divide the people , but instead one that unites them.taylor wanted to stress that he wants to talk to the people first , and if they don t want to change it they won t change it , saying that he will do what s best for all the people .
so , we went out to the people ourselves to see how they feel .
it s just a political thing .
i don t think they named it that because of anything to do with race , said michael banner , a winston-salem resident who said he frequents the fair .
leave it alone .
it [ isn t ] bothering me going over there , so i m all right with it .
it doesn t make me any different because i m going whether they change the name or not , said marion speis , also of winston-salem .
different things for different strokes , [ nobody is going to ] go along with everything .
some said that the idea of removing confederate symbols has gone too far and made its way to the name of the fair .
ok , take the flag , that s ok ; put it in a museum or something , said marjorie claycomb , of winston-salem .
but they re making too much of it .
i just think it s just overkill from what s going on right now , said scott osborne , who said he regularly attends the fair .
dixie doesn t have anything to do with being offensive towards what anyone s belief is .
we continued to look for people who may be offended by the name but regardless of their gender , age or race nobody had anything negative to say about the fair or its name .
it s just a name .
i don t find it offensive , said kevin carter , who routinely brings his family to the fair .
if they didn t let certain people go in , but , everybody goes .
i thought it was ridiculous .
i mean , there s no reason to change the name of the dixie classic fair , said dina nelson , of winston-salem .
i mean , it s a southern name , but there is nothing racist about it .
i don t see anything wrong with that name .
not at all .
not one bit , said reginald cunningham , of winston-salem .
it s not one of my main problems that i see needs to be solved right now .
the dixie classic fair name has been in existence since the 1950s .
last year , the city changed the name of the venue to the winston-salem fairgrounds .
via : myfox8