ankara ( reuters ) - a turkish prosecutor has called for jail sentences of up to 15 years on terrorism charges for a group of rights activists including the local head of amnesty international , amnesty said .
the detention in july of the activists , who also include a german and swedish national , deepened tensions between ankara and european union leaders who fear that turkey is sliding toward greater authoritarianism under president tayyip erdogan .
they were held after attending a workshop on digital security on an island off istanbul .
eight of them have been held since then , accused of being members of and aiding an armed terrorist organization .
this indictment is little more than a tawdry patchwork of innuendo and untruths and is itself a damning indictment of the flaws in turkey s justice system , john dalhuisen , amnesty international s europe director said in a statement .
the court must reject it in its entirety and ensure that our friends and colleagues are immediately and unconditionally released .
shortly after they were detained germany said it was reviewing applications for arms projects from turkey .
a minister in berlin compared ankara s behavior over the detention of the activists to the authoritarian former communist east germany .
chancellor angela merkel also said last month that turkey s 12-year journey to join the european union should be halted .
german foreign minister sigmar gabriel said he was very worried about the latest development .
the demand for up to 15 years in prison is totally incomprehensible to us and not acceptable , gabriel said in a statement , adding berlin had got in touch with the turkish government about the matter .
among those arrested in july are amnesty international s turkey director dil eser , german citizen peter frank steudtner and swedish citizen ali gharavi .
they have now been officially charged by an indictment , the first step in court proceedings .
we are doing all we can to bring the jailed german citizens , including peter steudtner , back to germany , said gabriel .
erdogan s government says eu critics of the case , and of the wider crackdown in turkey following last year s failed military coup in which more than 240 people were killed , do not understand the scale of the security challenges facing turkey .
more than 50,000 people have been detained since the failed coup and 150,000 people , including teachers , academics and lawyers , have been suspended from their jobs .