the next time you hear someone talk about how it s a shame our country is so divided , make sure you tell them to thank a democrat .
we got a glimpse of the underbelly of the democrat party during the presidential election when the founder of project veritas james o keefe went undercover to expose the democrats plan to create chaos and violence and blame it on trump supporters .
the man in the video , robert creamer who bragged about his organizing skills had visited obama s white house over 340 times .
he is also the husband of a democrat congresswoman jan schakowsky of il .
once the real riots got rolling in nyc and chicago , and antifa was gaining steam in berkeley , ca , it was discovered that billionaire radical democrat george soros was actually paying to keep the riots going .
so it really shouldn t come as any surprise that these basement dwellers have put a bounty on a black man s head simply for having a different political opinion than that of the one he was told he must follow andrew duncomb , aka black rebel has been an outspoken advocate of southern history , and specifically of the confederate flag and confederate monuments .
we published an article about two great black patriots , the black rebel and arlene dunham , who have bravely stood in the face of hate and insults to defend for what their beliefs .
but tonight , new information is coming out about a bounty that has been placed on the head of duncomb , who according to friends in new orleans , has gone into hiding.here is black rebel telling viewers on his facebook page about how they can t get any help or protection from police .
black rebel says they won t be intimidated and will continue to fight for what they believe in : here are fellow patriots in new orleans explaining how antifa has allegedly placed a bounty on black rebel s head and that he s gone into hiding .
another unidentified black confederate monument supporter was threatened on facebook by an alleged antifa member gene black , who threatened the black confederate statue supporter s family while he s in new orleans on his wall 4 days ago : the image above appears to be of the man standing in the front with the red , white and blue t-shirt .
the black rebel can be seen standing behind him as they are being threatened by the opposition .