bogota ( reuters ) - thirteen people , including civilians , were killed during a confrontation between colombia s eln rebels and dissidents from the now-demobilized farc guerrilla group in a remote area known for drug trafficking , the country s ombudsman said on tuesday .
the incident took place on nov. 27 in the southwestern narino region , a place where crime gangs and rebel groups are known to grow , process and smuggle coca , the base ingredient in cocaine .
a hard-won peace accord was agreed with the now-disbanded revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) rebel group last year , ending some five decades of war .
but an array of farc dissidents , national liberation army ( eln ) rebels , right-wing ex-paramilitaries and crime gangs are still active in colombia , competing for control of lucrative illegal mines and drug trafficking routes .
in narino , fighters from the eln attacked members of the rural resistance , ombudsmen carlos alfonso negret said in a report .
the rural resistance are farc dissidents who refused to demobilize following the peace deal .
the ombudsman s office visited the area and was able to determine that there was an exchange of fire between the group that calls itself rural resistance and the eln , negret told journalists .
there was crossfire that killed 13 people .
neither the report nor negret specified how many of the dead were civilians .
more than 11,000 fighters and collaborators from the farc handed over their weapons this year as part of the peace accord .
the group has kept its initials in its reincarnation as a political party .
but negret says some 800 former guerrillas did not demobilize , while other security sources and thinktanks put the number of dissident ex-farc at between 700 and 1,300 .
the eln and the government began their first ever bilateral ceasefire in october , part of peace talks taking place in ecuador .
the ceasefire is set to run through jan. 9 and may be extended .
the incident was a violation of the ceasefire , negret said .
it is the second act of violence which has overshadowed the ceasefire , after the eln admitted to killing an indigenous leader in restive choco province .