one of president-elect donald trump s potential cabinet picks showed photographers more than he intended over the weekend , revealing part of an aggressive plan to change the department of homeland security s approach to combating illegal immigration.kansas secretary of state kris kobach , who was rumored last week to be on an attorney general short-list , emerged as a contender for the dhs job and interviewed with trump on sunday .
when the two posed for pictures beforehand , however , kobach was clutching his proposal and photographs captured the parts that his left hand didn t obscure.here are the portions revealed by a photo enlargement : department of homeland security / kobach strategic plan for first 365 days i .
bar the entry of potential terrorists 1 .
update and reintroduce the nseers screening and tracking system ( national security entry-exit registration system ) that was in place from 2002-2005 .
all aliens from high-risk areas are tracked .
2 .
add extreme vetting questions for high-risk aliens ; question them regarding support for sharia law , jihad , equality of men and women , the united states constitution .
3 .
reduce intake of syrian refugees to zero , using authority under the 1980 refugee act .
[ ii .
deport ] record number of criminal aliens in the first year .
[ 4 .
reinstate ] 193,000 criminal removal cases dropped by the obama administration .
[ 5 .
ice guidance memoranda adopted by obama administration ; issue new guidance [ to redefine ] criminal alien as any alien arrested for any crime , and any gang member .
[ 6 . ]
to repatriate their citizens who have committed crimes in the united states .
[ 7 . ]
expedited 287 ( g ) agreements with at least 70 cities and counties to enlist state and alien criminals .
in addition to the 386 miles of existing actual wall within entire 1,989 miles planned for rapid build .
under the patriot act to prevent illegal aliens immediately to forestall future lawsuits .
v. stop 21 .
issue regulations voter rolls .
direct 22 .
direct the department of justice 23 .
draft amendments to national voter read more : daily mail