paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron s initiative in bringing lebanon s saad al-hariri to paris puts france at the center of a power struggle between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran and will test a policy of neutrality that critics doubt can be sustained .
while the move eased regional tensions that spiked after the prime minister s resignation on nov. 4 , it also exposed the difficulty of macron s stated position of taking no sides in the middle east .
macron has put his neck out on lebanon , said a european diplomat who didn t want to be named talking about an ally s policies .
it s a bit like his moment of truth .
hariri , a saudi ally , arrived in france on saturday days after announcing his resignation while in riyadh , accusing iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah of creating strife .
many lebanese believe the saudis made him quit .
president michel aoun has not accepted the resignation and hariri is expected to return to beirut on wednesday , when lebanon celebrates the end of france s colonial mandate in 1943 .
macron s maneuver , which came after a visit to saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman and a flurry of calls , appears to have taken the foreign ministry by surprise , an example of his penchant for bypassing state organs to show he s in charge , much like former leader nicolas sarkozy .
so far it s a symbolic victory for french diplomacy that has enabled a reduction in tensions , said stephane malsagne , a lecturer at sciences po university in paris , adding it was a risky gamble that could antagonize all sides .
macron set out his foreign policy objectives for the region in his first speech to the diplomatic corps in august , saying he wanted france to maintain a balanced position .
we will achieve our goal of fighting terrorism only if we do not make the mistake that would impose a choice between shi ites and sunnis , and in a sense , force us to lock ourselves in one camp , he said at the time .
some french diplomats say macron will find it difficult to appease everyone , however .
lebanon maintains a delicate sectarian balance after sunnis , shi ites , christians and druze fought a civil war between 1975 and 1990 , with factions often backed by regional rivals .
hariri is sunni muslim and president aoun , a political ally of hezbollah , is christian .
hariri s government , a power-sharing coalition formed last year , includes shi ite hezbollah .
this mediation is an introduction for a new french political role in lebanon ... ( and ) a french attempt to find a foothold starting from lebanon into the region , said a senior lebanese official , speaking on condition of anonymity .
but in the shadow of big players ( u.s. , russia , iran , saudi arabia ) in the region , the french will face difficulties .
since hariri announced his resignation , saudi arabia has accused lebanon of declaring war on it , citing hezbollah s role in fighting in other arab countries .
france has a long history of commercial , political and social links with iran that even saw ayatollah ruhollah khomenei exiled near paris in 1979 , but it was arguably the most demanding of the six powers negotiating the 2015 nuclear accord .
under presidents sarkozy and francois hollande , who aligned themselves with qatar and saudi arabia , respectively , there was a hawkish shift toward tehran .
since the deal , paris has been quick to restore trade ties , with planemaker airbus , oil major total and automobile manufacturers peugeot and renault all signing deals .
that rapprochement annoyed riyadh , which has been moving closer to the united states under president donald trump .
we had to reassure the saudis ... and rebalance things .
prince salman has gone into overdrive and that s dangerous for everyone so he needs some love from us , said one french diplomat , who asked not to be identified .
tehran is now chafing in turn over france s warming saudi ties and what appears to be a good relationship with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , who is due in paris on dec. 10 for the second time since macron took office in may .
recent rhetoric has reflected the tensions .
at a news conference on friday , macron said iran should clarify what is going on with its ballistic missile program which seems to be uncontrolled .
that followed a news conference in riyadh on thursday at which foreign minister jean-yves le drian denounced tehran s hegemonic temptations .
on saturday ali akbar velayati , a senior adviser to iran s supreme leader , told macron to stay out of its affairs .
le drian has pushed back a planned visit to tehran and talk that macron may visit next year has become more muted .
speaking to all sides is noble , but this policy in the region will come tumbling down if le drian and macron do not go to tehran .
our credibility depends on it , said a second french diplomat .
some hardline politicians in iran have criticized president hassan rouhani for trying to strengthen ties with paris , saying europeans will not endanger their interests in the face of u.s. pressure .
a senior iranian official said macron s policy of balance ultimately just offered mixed signals .
he talks about curbing iran s defensive missile work and criticizes iran s regional policy and then he wants to build closer ties ?
the official said .
france should clearly announce which side paris is taking .... we like to expand our relations but paris sends mixed signals and can not be trusted .