( this version of september 20 s story corrects to change political affiliation of senator in paragraph 12 ) by gabriel stargardter mexico city ( reuters ) - less than a year before a presidential election , mexico s politicians are fearful they could be punished by voters for any misstep in responding to two major earthquakes that killed more than 300 people this month .
with tolerance low after years of violence and corruption , the tremors could further undermine voters confidence in the ruling party of president enrique pena nieto and the entire political class .
we re clearly aware that this is a test we can not flunk , said senator miguel angel chico of the ruling institutional revolutionary party , or pri .
pena nieto sprang into action this month after an 8.1 magnitude earthquake on sept. 7 , the strongest in nearly a century , leveled parts of southern mexico and killed at least 98 people .
on tuesday , when a 7.1 tremor struck , he aborted a trip to the first quake s disaster zone to return to mexico city , where 38 buildings collapsed killing scores of people , including more than 20 children at a school .
pena nieto went to the school as rescuers searched for children and adults trapped inside .
the death toll from tuesday s quake , which struck the capital and nearby states on the anniversary of a devastating 1985 tremor , has reached 230 .
politicians from all sides called for solidarity and praised how mexicans , many of whom volunteered to help climb through rubble and search for survivors , had come together .
nonetheless , one figure loomed large over the fallout from the quakes and any instability it may generate ahead of the july vote : leftist andres manuel lopez obrador , long the bete noire of mexico s political establishment and the frontrunner in many polls .
lopez obrador , or amlo as he is known , enjoys widespread support in the left-leaning capital , home to about 20 million people .
the former mexico city mayor , who narrowly lost the two previous presidential elections , won praise from supporters after the first quake when he proposed donating 20 percent of his party s federal campaign funds for victims .
on wednesday , volunteers across mexico flocked to help remove debris and donate supplies in a grass-roots effort that opposition national action party ( pan ) senator daniel avila said was symptomatic of widespread distrust of the political class and the government s ability to deliver .
i think voters could look to punish those currently in government if they don t manage this situation well , avila said .
the pri , which ran mexico for an uninterrupted 71 years and currently places third in the polls , knows the political damage that earthquakes can inflict .
pri president miguel de la madrid led the country during a powerful 1985 quake , which killed thousands in mexico city exactly 32 years to the day before tuesday s tremor .
de la madrid was widely criticized for his response , worsening already broad discontent with the party s corrupt , authoritarian rule at the time .
after the quake , the pri gradually lost support and was voted out in 2000 .
now , party supporters hope that a swift response nationwide can avoid a repeat of that loss .
governors from the pri and its coalition partner the green party are in office in oaxaca and chiapas , the states hardest-hit by the first quake this month .
and the pri narrowly won a recent gubernatorial race in the state of mexico , a longstanding party bastion where at least 12 people had died by wednesday .
there have been accusations that aid has disproportionately benefited wealthier areas .
in the capital , fashionable districts like roma and condesa received most of the organized assistance .
with a glut of people arriving to help and little guidance on how to best use resources , volunteers struggled , said 34-year-old art professor camila morales , adding that in poorer districts there had been insufficient help .
on the outskirts in the south of the city ... there is no help arriving , they still don t even have power , said morales , who was part of a large volunteer group from a local university .
on social media , a campaign emerged to prevent politicians from capitalizing on the earthquake .
following lopez obrador s lead , one petition sought to get the federal government to divert electoral funds for political parties to helping victims .
quickly , other politicians jumped on board .
enrique ochoa , the pri chairman and one of the leftist s fiercest critics , on wednesday tweeted : i ask that the parties get together to resolve ... how we can donate campaign money , without pretense or opportunism .