mainstream news channels rarely draw attention to the negative side of abortion , but cbs news did so this week with a report about iceland s near 100-percent abortion rate for babies with down syndrome .
few countries have come as close to eradicating down syndrome births as iceland , the report begins .
since prenatal screening tests were introduced in iceland in the early 2000s , the vast majority of women close to 100 percent who received a positive test for down syndrome terminated their pregnancy .
just a handful of children with down syndrome have been born in iceland in the past decade .
two are born each year , on average , but the rest are killed in the womb .
for most of the children who were born , their mothers decided not to have prenatal screening tests.this deadly discrimination against babies with disabilities is a problem in countries across the world , not just iceland .
in 2014 , the danish government reported 98 percent of unborn babies who tested positive for down syndrome were aborted .
cbs reports the rate in france was 77 percent in 2015 , 90 percent in the united kingdom and 67 percent in the u.s. between 1995 and 2011 .
some put the rate even higher in the united states , but it is difficult to determine the exact number because the u.s. government does not keep detailed statistics about abortion.in many of these countries , late-term abortions are legal in cases of fetal anomalies , such as down syndrome .
the uk , for example , prohibits abortions after 24 weeks but allows wide exceptions for late-term abortions involving fetal anomalies.iceland hospital counselor helga sol olafsdottir does not see any problem with the fact that so many women are having their unborn babies aborted because of down syndrome .
this systematic discrimination is simply a woman s choice in her mind.the issue is not gray .
it s very clearly wrong , says penny nace , president and ceo of concerned women for america .
this is eugenics and barbarianism at best , nace said .
these individuals have no less worth than anyone else .
iceland and many other countries are killing human beings in abortions simply because they have a disability .
down syndrome varies in severity , but most people with the genetic disorder live into their 60s .
some even live on their own , hold down jobs , go to college and get married.for entire story life news