sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - advocates and opponents of capital punishment sparred on friday over california ’ s proposed new lethal injection protocol , highlighting deep divisions in a state that houses a quarter of u.s. death row inmates but has not executed anyone in a decade .
the plan to use barbiturates to execute inmates sentenced to die in the most populous u.s. state drew fire from religious activists , who called capital punishment grisly and anti-democratic at a hearing in sacramento .
law-and-order advocates urged its adoption .
“ as of next month , the state will have been remiss in its duties for a decade , ” said michele hanisee , vice president of the los angeles association of deputy district attorneys .
“ the family members of the victims are dying before the murderers. ” the informational hearing was part of the state ’ s process for adopting a new protocol for lethal injection that would use one drug , a barbiturate , to put condemned inmates to death .
it would replace a three-drug cocktail that a california court declared unconstitutional 10 years ago because it could possibly cause pain .
under a court settlement , the state must develop a new procedure for executions .
at the same time , californians have grown more divided over capital punishment , with nearly half the electorate and many top officials now opposing the death penalty .
death penalty opponents hope to place an initiative on the november ballot that would outlaw capital punishment .
on the same ballot , supporters back a different initiative to speed up executions .
“ the people on death row , most of them have perpetrated grave crimes , ” said linda fox , a board member of the group death penalty focus , who spoke against the protocol .
“ but they are still human beings. ” there was no proof , she argued , that using a barbiturate to carry out a death sentence would not result in a botched or painful execution .
california juries have sentenced nearly 900 people to death since 1978 , but only 13 have been executed .
sixty-eight have died of natural causes , 36 for other reasons .
of more than 750 inmates currently on death row , seven have been there since the 1970s .
if the new protocol is adopted by corrections officials and voters do not outlaw the death penalty next november , the state could theoretically begin executing 18 prisoners who have exhausted their appeals .
legal challenges to the lethal injection drug , however , could drag on for years .