marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - marawi resident baimona amintao hopes her turn comes quickly once authorities begin raffling off the first batch of temporary shelters for those who lost their homes to the five-month battle to retake the southern philippine city from islamist militants .
amintao and her five children were among the thousands of families displaced since fighting erupted in marawi on may 23 , when security forces tried to arrest isnilon hapilon , islamic state s emir in southeast asia .
the philippines on monday announced the end of military operations in marawi after a fierce and unfamiliar urban war in the country s biggest security crisis in years , paving the way for rebuilding and rehabilitation efforts to begin .
more than 1,000 transitional houses , with basic bathroom and cooking facilities , could be completed within two months on the outskirts of marawi , the philippine housing agency has said .
residents whose homes were devastated will get first priority in allotment raffles that could be held either before or after construction .
i hope i can be included in the raffle and be able to stay there for my children s well-being , amintao , 26 , who formerly owned a small grocery store , told reuters .
many people here prioritize their children since many of the kids can not stand living inside the tents and are getting sick .
the government estimates the rebuilding of marawi could cost at least 50 billion pesos ( $ 971 million ) .
authorities said 920 militants , 165 troops and police and at least 45 civilians were killed in the conflict , which displaced more than 300,000 people .
philippine president rodrigo duterte has placed the southern island of mindanao , where marawi is located , under martial rule to help security forces in crushing the rebel movement .
the rebel occupation stunned a military inexperienced in urban combat and stoked wider concerns that islamic state loyalists have gained influence among local muslims and have ambitions to use the island as a base for southeast asia operations .
those fears are compounded by the organization of the militant alliance and its ability to recruit young fighters , lure foreign radicals , stockpile huge amounts of arms and endure 154 days of ground offensive and air strikes .
the social welfare department said more than 5,000 families still live in covered gymnasiums and tent cities .
i could not fathom what happened to our village and i hope this does not happen again , said alniah magoyag , a village official .
no more terrorists in marawi city .