during the democrats first debate last month , bernie sanders said we should look to countries like denmark , like sweden and norway , and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people .
denmark s prime minister came out swinging , demanding that sanders get his facts straight , denmark is not a socialist nation , it has a market economy .
democrats have been working for decades to adopt the progressive policies based on political correctness that permeates most european nations.sweden , the rape capitol of the world , is a perfect example of how well their politically correct , open-border policies have worked out for them .
as the muslim invasion of these european nations escalates , we are seeing this indifferent attitude of live and let live that only benefits those muslim invaders who have no intention of assimilating in their host nations .
this video shows how a nation gripped with fear reacts with apathy towards the criminal as opposed to taking action to save the supposed victim .
it illustrates how easily a group of invaders can overtake a nation conditioned to accepting everyone , so as not to offend anyone .
sadly , we live in a country which has the highest rate of reported cases of rape .
and this land is called sweden .
rape is a very serious crime which not only affects our country , but the rest of the world .
so in our new social experiment , we put swedish citizens up for a test .
this video is a great example of what happens to a nation who puts political correctness before the safety and security of its citizens : a poor girl can be heard screaming for help from the backseat of a car .
there is no question she is being sexually assaulted , yet one after another , swedish citizens continue to walk by pretending not to hear.at one point in the video , the rapist a brave passerby took action to stop him .
sadly , most of the other apathetic citizens were satisfied to look the other way , so as not to get involved .
the biggest sin of the humankind is indifference .