washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate banking committee on thursday had to postpone its vote to confirm the two nominees to join the securities and exchange commission , after four democrats created a wall of opposition over the nominees ’ views of corporate political spending .
the resistance posed by charles schumer of new york , robert menendez of new jersey , jeff merkley of oregon and elizabeth warren of massachusetts , led to procedural confusion and the republican committee chairman , richard shelby of alabama , decided to delay the vote .
the sec , the country ’ s top securities regulator , has faced mounting pressure to require corporations to disclose political donations since the supreme court struck down strict limits on campaign finance in its 2010 citizens united decision .
during a confirmation hearing on the nominees last month , schumer had demanded the two nominees , republican hester peirce and democrat lisa fairfax , state in writing that they support requiring corporations to make their political donations public .
at thursday ’ s vote , he said the answers he received were “ gobbledy gook ” that did not express firm positions , and he would oppose the nominations .
“ right now , the sec is our best hope to undo some of the damage from citizens united and stop the torrential downpour of dark money into our elections , ” schumer said after the hearing .
“ the sec needs commissioners who believe in and support campaign spending transparency , and unfortunately these nominees have yet to answer that call. ” budget legislation passed by the republican-majority congress at the end of 2015 blocked the sec from creating a rule on political spending .
at march ’ s confirmation hearing peirce , a senior fellow at george mason university , said the sec is charged with carrying out laws and she would not undermine the budget legislation if confirmed .
peirce and fairfax , a law professor at george washington university , were nominated by president barack obama in october .
at the hearings the most powerful democrat on the committee , sherrod brown of ohio , pressed to confirm the nominees quickly and send their names to the full senate to approve .
“ these people have been asked to take on important jobs .
it is incumbent upon us to act on them promptly today and then on the floor , ” brown said .
thursday ’ s vote was “ en banc , ” which meant the committee was set to approve a single list of nominations that included the two .
voting was also postponed , then , for the other nominees on the list .