democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton has wasted no time using the new york times bombshell that was dropped on saturday .
the revelation was that republican presidential candidate donald trump may have manipulated his taxes to make it so that he has not had to pay income taxes for two decades .
now , clinton is trolling trump hard with a special tax calculator that shows exactly how much a person would pay in income taxes if they were trump .
the joke is pretty straightforward .
type in your annual income and the calculator shows the same amount of money owed in taxes is exactly $ 0 .
clinton s campaign website also displays a message that reads : donald trump says it s because he s smart .
the new york times says it s because he lost almost a billion dollars .
either way , donald trump may have avoided paying federal income taxes for 18 years after losing $ 916 million in 1995 .
and trump really did pay zero , or nearly zero , in federal income taxes in 1978 , 1979 , 1984 , 1991 , and 1993 .
until we see evidence otherwise , we ll assume it s still zero .
clinton s campaign manager , robby mook just released a statement on the matter .
in the statement mook said that : he apparently got to avoid paying taxes for nearly two decades while tens of millions of working families paid theirs .
he calls that smart .
trump has refused to release his tax returns , breaking decades worth of tradition .
most people on the left assumed he had something to hide .
now we have a bit more of an idea of what exactly he is hiding .
since the revelation , trump has been lambasted by many individuals .
notably , nevada democratic senator harry reid , who said that trump is a billion-dollar loser who won t release his taxes because they ll expose him as a spoiled , rich brat who lost the millions he inherited from his father .
reid also called for the passing of the presidential tax transparency act .
the ptta would make it mandatory for presidential candidates to release their tax returns if they seek the office of the presidency.featured image from screenshot