united nations ( reuters ) - the syrian government of bashar al-assad is to blame for a chemical attack on the opposition-held town of khan sheikhoun that killed dozens of people last april , according to a report sent to the united nations security council on thursday .
the syrian arab republic is responsible for the release of sarin at khan sheikhoun on 4 april 2017 , the report from the u.n. and the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) said .
the attack prompted a u.s. missile strike against a syrian air base which washington said was used to launch the strike .
time and again , we see independent confirmation of chemical weapons use by the assad regime , nikki haley , the united states u.n. ambassador , said in a statement .
the security council must send a clear message that the use of chemical weapons by anyone will not be tolerated , and must fully support the work of the impartial investigators .
the report also said isis was to blame for the use of sulfur mustard in the syrian town of umm hawsh on sept. 15 and 16 , 2016 .
the jim was unanimously created by the 15-member u.n. security council in 2015 and renewed in 2016 for another year .
its mandate is due to expire in mid-november , and russia on tuesday vetoed a proposal to further extend its mandate .
russian ambassador to the u.n. vassily nebenzia said earlier this week russia would consider revisiting the mandate extension after thursday s report is discussed .
speaking in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said china hopes that the conclusions of any investigation have a basis in conclusive proof and are professional , objective and fair .
the continuing use of chemical weapons , including by non-state actors , is deeply disturbing , said the report .
if such use , in spite of the prohibition by the international community , is not stopped now , a lack of consequences will surely encourage others to follow .
the jim has already found syrian government forces were responsible for three chlorine gas attacks in 2014 and 2015 .
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .
the syrian government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons during the country s more than six-year civil war .