springfield , ill. ( reuters ) - illinois republican governor bruce rauner on wednesday called on democrats who control the legislature to give him the power to balance the state ’ s chronically unbalanced budget if they continue to reject his proposed reform package .
in his second budget address to the legislature , rauner said residents were “ sick and tired ” of a political impasse that has left the fifth-largest u.s. state without a full budget for nearly eight months .
illinois and pennsylvania are the only two states that lack complete fiscal 2016 budgets .
rauner , a wealthy venture capitalist turned politician , offered two fiscal 2017 budget proposals : a $ 36.3 billion general fund spending plan that incorporates his so-called turnaround agenda that democrats have opposed , or a budget tied to proposed legislation to empower him to reduce spending to $ 32.8 billion .
“ i won ’ t support new revenue unless we have major structural reforms to grow more jobs and get more value for taxpayers , ” he said .
rauner insisted any fiscal 2016 budget deal must include democratic concessions on at least “ a portion ” of his agenda to weaken collective-bargaining rights , limit workers injured on the job from obtaining compensation from employers , freeze property taxes and change how legislative district boundaries are drawn .
house speaker michael madigan and senate president john cullerton , both chicago democrats , declined to support big budget powers for rauner .
“ what the governor is asking for is unilateral budget-making power , ” madigan said , adding a balanced approach of spending cuts and new revenue is needed .
illinois has the lowest credit ratings and worst-funded pensions among the 50 states .
while the search continues for a constitutional way to rein in a $ 111 billion unfunded pension liability , rauner proposed saving $ 4.8 billion over four years by shifting some retirement costs for 1,900 high-paid employees onto their local school districts , universities and community colleges .
pension-influencing , end-of-career salary increases would face a tighter cap , while state payment spikes caused by assumption changes by the state ’ s five retirement systems would be smoothed over five years .
rauner pledged to work on a bipartisan revamp of the state ’ s school funding formula , adding any proposal involving “ taking money from one school district and giving it to another is doomed. ” he warned the chicago public schools “ is threatening a lawsuit against the state. ” cps ceo forrest claypool said the district , mired in its own financial crisis , is a victim of unequal funding by the state and could not ignore “ any tool ” to protect students .
he added that the governor was unwilling to address that inequity .
rauner proposed boosting per-student funding in k-12 public schools to $ 6,119 , the highest level in seven years a fiscal 2016 school funding bill passed by democrats last year marked the only major budget measure rauner initially signed , leaving illinois to operate on court-ordered spending and ongoing appropriations for bonds and pensions for the fiscal year that began july 1 .
spending is largely at fiscal 2015 levels when revenue was higher thanks to income tax rates that had been temporarily raised , but which rolled back on jan. 1 , 2015 , making illinois ’ finances even shaker .
public universities and scholarships for low-income college students remain unfunded .
several hundred protesters , mostly students from public universities , crowded into the state capitol rotunda and chanted “ save our schools ” and “ hey , hey , ho , ho , governor rauner has got to go ” while the governor delivered his speech inside the house chambers .
illinois ’ current $ 7.17 billion backlog of unpaid bills , a barometer of the ongoing structural budget imbalance , could be tackled partially through up to $ 4 billion in new borrowing that would cost less than the 12 percent penalty now tacked onto tardy state bill payments , an administration official said .