washington ( reuters ) - fox news on friday issued a harsh condemnation to donald trump in defense of one of the network ’ s most popular reporters , calling the republican front-runner ’ s “ obsession ” unfit for a presidential candidate .
“ donald trump ’ s vitriolic attacks against megyn kelly and his extreme , sick obsession with her is beneath the dignity of a presidential candidate , ” the conservative cable news network wrote in a statement .
“ megyn is an exemplary journalist and one of the leading anchors in america — we ’ re extremely proud of her phenomenal work and continue to fully support her throughout every day of trump ’ s endless barrage of crude and sexist verbal assaults. ” the statement from fox , which is part of the rupert murdoch-controlled twenty-first century fox inc , comes in response to a recent onslaught of negative comments from trump to kelly , resparking a months-long feud between the two .
the quarrel began in august when , during a fox news-hosted republican debate , trump blasted kelly over questions she posed to him regarding his history with women , including his references to some women he didn ’ t like as “ dogs ” and “ fat pigs. ” trump upped the ante shortly thereafter , saying that kelly had become so incensed , “ you could see there was blood coming out of her eyes .
blood coming out of her - wherever , ” which many viewed as trump insinuating that kelly was menstruating .
the trump campaign later issued a statement saying that by “ her wherever , ” trump meant kelly ’ s nose .
still , the damage had been done , and the relationship between the billionaire businessman and the longtime fox news anchor has remained strained .
beginning tuesday , trump took to twitter to blast kelly , tweeting and retweeting a series of messages referring to her as “ crazy megyn , ” and calling for supporters to boycott her weeknight news program , “ the kelly file. ” “ everybody should boycott the @ megynkelly show .
never worth watching .
always a hit on trump !
she is sick , & the most overrated person on tv , ” trump tweeted on friday .
fox news responded by saying : “ as the mother of three young children , with a successful law career and the second highest rated show in cable news , it ’ s especially deplorable for ( kelly ) to be repeatedly abused just for doing her job. ” the trump campaign stood by the negative tweets , calling kelly “ highly overrated ” in a statement , and accusing her of biased reporting .
“ unlike megyn kelly , who resorts to putting out statements via fox news , mr. trump will continue to defend himself against the inordinate amount of unfair and inaccurate coverage he receives on her second-rate show each night , ” the campaign said .