the number of americans on food stamps is at an all time high !
obama crows that the official unemployment rate is much lower than it was a few years ago .
too bad the statistic is meaningless : despite the unemployment rate being at an eight-year low ( 4.9 percent as of january 2016 ) , the number of people on food stamps remains near an all-time high which was 47,636,000 in 2013.why the disparity in the numbers ?
well , the unemployment rate does not take into account people who are not in , or have dropped out of , the workforce altogether.the bureau of labor statistics reported in january of this year that approximately 94 million americans are not participating in the workforce.but the supplemental nutrition assistance program ( snap ) has been hovering around 46 million participants since 2011 .
the current figure , as of february 2016 , stands at 45.8 million americans receiving food stamps.bloomberg business reported that the last time the unemployment rate was at five percent in april 2008 , only 28 million americans were on food stamps.several reasons explain the high numbers .
governments have made it easier to sign up for the program .
more than 85 percent of eligible food-stamp recipients took assistance in 2013 , the most recent year of available data , compared to 70 percent in 2008 .
the higher sign-up rate among those qualified accounts for 8.6 million more people on food stamps about half of the program s total increase .
well , at least president obama put forth one program that has been easy to sign up for.we now have a country based on government dependence .
heritage foundation research fellow robert rector said , clearly there s a group of people who are not in the labor force , and 10 years ago they would have been .
now they re relying on food stamps .
when we have a government full of enablers telling people that they don t have to work to provide for themselves and their families , they create an atmosphere of dependence and reliance.as the big government ratchet is turned ever further to the left , and it is ever easier to spend other people s money instead of earning your own , this number is more likely to rise than decline.read more : moonbattery