kirkuk , iraq ( reuters ) - visitors to kirkuk in northern iraq are greeted by an imposing statue of a kurdish peshmerga fighter with a gun slung over his shoulder , a reminder of tensions building in the hotly-contested city ahead of a referendum on kurdish independence .
erected in july , the statue has come to symbolize how the kurds want to cement their hold on oil-rich kirkuk and other parts of the region by holding next monday s vote .
peshmerga , which means those who confront death , are the military forces of the autonomous region of iraqi kurdistan .
the referendum is risky , especially in kirkuk , a multi-ethnic city also claimed by arabs since oil was discovered there in the 1930s .
the kurdistan region produces around 600,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) of oil .
the central government in baghdad , iraq s neighbors and western powers fear the vote could divide the country and spark a wider regional conflict , after arabs and kurds cooperated to dislodge islamic state from its stronghold in mosul .
already at least one kurd has been killed in pre-referendum clashes , and security checkpoints have been erected across the city to prevent further violence .
but the kurds say they are determined to go ahead with the vote , which , though non-binding , could trigger the process of separation in a country already divided along sectarian and ethnic lines .
iran , turkey , the united states and western allies oppose the vote .
some non-kurds fear baghdad will attempt to regain control of kirkuk and send in shi ite militias ( pmu ) , also known as the hashid al-shaabi , stationed just outside the province .
i fear the hashid will come and fighting will start in kirkuk , said nazim mohammed , an arab from mosul who fled to kirkuk when the northern city was overrun by islamic state .
backed by iran , the militias fear an independent kurdistan would split iraq , giving them and tehran less influence .
kirkuk , populated by kurds , arabs , turkmen , christians and other minorities , is one of 15 ethnically mixed areas in northern iraq that will participate in the referendum .
they are claimed by both the central government in baghdad and the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) .
a decision by krg president massoud barzani to include these so-called disputed territories in the plebiscite was widely interpreted as a unilateral move to consolidate kurdish control .
critics say kurdish intentions were already clear before the referendum was announced .
peshmerga fighters seized kirkuk in 2014 , after fleeing iraqi security forces left its oil fields vulnerable to islamic state militants who had just swept across northern iraq .
the statue is dedicated to the peshmerga and is designed to represent the appreciation of the people of kirkuk .
tensions between the krg and baghdad are not new , and hinge on oil revenue .
the kurds have long accused baghdad of failing to make budget payments to the region , while central government has opposed oil deals made by the kurds without its consent .
nevertheless , the kurds have been marking their territory in the run-up to the vote .
peshmerga outposts dot the area , protecting the flaming oil fields on kirkuk s outskirts .
kurdish flags have been hoisted across the city since the spring , and now fly alongside iraqi flags on government buildings .
dreaming of long-denied statehood since world war one , the kurds say the are ready to fight if necessary .
kurdistan s land belongs to the kurdish people , kemal al-kirkuki , the kurdish military commander responsible for the front-line against islamic state , told reuters at his base in dibis .
no one , not the pmu , has the right to take it ... we will ask them to leave kurdish territory , peacefully .
but we are prepared to fight if we need to .
on monday , clashes broke out in kirkuk after a kurdish convoy celebrating the referendum drove by a turkmen political party s office .
a kurd was killed , and two others were injured , security sources said .
this followed a week of escalating rhetoric between the kurdish leadership and baghdad , where parliament voted to reject the referendum and oust kirkuk s kurdish governor , najmaddin kareem .
the conflict over the disputed territories is bitter .
if the kurdistan region of iraq declared a break-off from baghdad , kirkuk would fall right on the border between the two .
kirkuk produces around one quarter of the region s oil .
if the kurds want to press for a separation of sorts , said joost hiltermann , mena program director at the international crisis group , the boundary question becomes critically important .
if baghdad and erbil continue to take unilateral steps , he said , things can only escalate .
there are no reliable statistics on kirkuk s population , where both kurds and arabs say they have a demographic majority ; vital to legitimize their respective claims over the province .
kirkuk was meant to have a census under the 2005 constitution , drafted two years after former iraqi leader saddam was toppled in the u.s.-led invasion , but it did not take place because of the risk of ethnic and religious tensions .
during saddam s anfal campaign waged against the kurds in the 1980s , there was a forced arabisation of disputed areas , which ejected kurds from the province .
arabs from other parts of iraq were then settled , taking over kurdish homes and businesses .
in 1988 , saddam caused international outrage by staging a chemical attack on the kurdish city of halabja which killed thousands of people .
many arabs have been ousted since saddam was toppled in 2003 , emboldening the kurds to reclaim large parts of the disputed territories , including kirkuk .
displaced kurds were provided with incentives to return , while kurds from other areas were also moved in , angering other minorities .
since 2003 some 600,000 kurds have arrived , many of them are here illegally , said ali mehdi sadiq , a turkman member of kirkuk s local council .
without dialogue everything is possible .
we need to avoid a war engulfing the whole of iraq .
he blamed governor kareem , a kurd who lived for more than 30 years in the united states for what he called a kurdish discrimination of minorities .
the governor said the kurds would guarantee minorities rights , pointing to relative stability in the kurdistan region in contrast to baghdad where suicide bombings are frequent .
but his support for kurdish independence is worrying minorities : he refused to sit behind an iraqi flag during an interview , preferring the kurdish one and said he would destroy his iraqi passport the minute he got a kurdish one .
he shrugged off the decision by iraq s parliament last week to sack him as unlawful , adding : this is a proud day for me .
anticipating trouble ahead , some residents of kirkuk have been stockpiling basic foods such as flour , rice and milk .
since they announced the referendum i have hardly had any customers .
the market is dead , said 27-year-old ali hamza , an arab who has a small textiles shop in the old city .
several kurds interviewed supported the independence vote but privately said they were worried about clashes afterwards .
but faced with his people s fears of clashes and economic problems , governor kareem said that when taking a big step like the referendum , anything was possible .
nothing comes without a price .
for a graphic on iraq 's oil producing region of kirkuk , click : here