united nations ( reuters ) - the united states wants the united nations security council to impose an oil embargo on north korea , ban the country s exports of textiles and the hiring of north korean laborers abroad , and subject leader kim jong un to an asset freeze and travel ban , according to a draft resolution seen by reuters on wednesday .
the u.s. ambassador to the united nations , nikki haley , has said she wants the 15-member council to vote on monday on the draft resolution to impose new sanctions over north korea s sixth and largest nuclear test .
however , russia s u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia has said a monday vote may be a little premature .
it was not immediately clear if the draft resolution had the support of north korean ally china .
russian president vladimir putin insisted on wednesday that resolving the north korean nuclear crisis was impossible with sanctions and pressure alone .
a u.n. resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , britain , france , russia or china to pass .
u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said on wednesday that if the security council did not act , he had an executive order prepared to send to president donald trump that would authorize me to stop doing trade and put sanctions on anybody that does trade with north korea .
the president will consider that at the appropriate time once he gives the u.n. time to act , mnuchin told reporters .
since 2006 , the security council has unanimously adopted eight resolutions ratcheting up sanctions on north korea over its ballistic missile and nuclear programs .
haley said the incremental approach had not worked and a diplomatic solution could only be reached by imposing the strongest sanctions .
the new draft u.n. resolution would ban exports to north korea of crude oil , condensate , refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids .
china supplies most of north korea s crude .
according to south korean data , beijing supplies roughly 500,000 tonnes of crude oil annually .
it also exports 200,000 tonnes of oil products , according to u.n. data .
russia s exports of crude oil to north korea are about 40,000 tonnes a year .
the security council last month imposed new sanctions over north korea s two long-range missile launches in july .
the aug. 5 resolution aimed to slash by a third pyongyang s $ 3 billion annual export revenue by banning coal , iron , lead and seafood .
the new draft resolution would remove an exception for transshipments of russian coal via the north korean port of rajin .
in 2013 russia reopened a railway link with north korea , from the russian eastern border town of khasan to rajin , to export coal and import goods from south korea and elsewhere .
the aug. 5 resolution capped the number of north koreans working abroad at the current level .
the new draft resolution would impose a complete ban on the hiring and payment of north korean laborers abroad .
some diplomats estimate that between 60,000 and 100,000 north koreans work abroad .
a u.n. human rights investigator said in 2015 that north korea was forcing more than 50,000 people to work abroad , mainly in russia and china , earning between $ 1.2 billion and $ 2.3 billion a year .
the wages of workers sent abroad provide foreign currency for the pyongyang government .
the draft resolution would ban textiles , which were north korea s second-biggest export after coal and other minerals in 2016 , totaling $ 752 million , according to data from the korea trade-investment promotion agency ( kotra ) .
nearly 80 percent of the textile exports went to china .
the assets of military-controlled airline air koryo would be frozen if the draft resolution is adopted .
it flies to beijing and a few other cities in china , including dandong , the main transit point for trade between the two countries .
it also flies to vladivostok in russia .
along with blacklisting north korean leader kim jong un , the draft resolution would impose a travel ban and asset freeze on four other senior north korean officials .
the worker s party of korea and the government of north korea would also be subjected to an asset freeze .
the draft resolution would allow states to intercept and inspect on the high seas vessels that have been blacklisted by the security council .
currently nearly two dozen vessels are listed and the new draft text would add another nine ships .
the draft resolution does not contain any new language on the political track .
it again reaffirms council support and calls for a resumption of talks between north korea , the united states , south korea , china , japan and russia .
china and russia have been pushing their proposal to kick-start talks with a joint suspension of north korea s ballistic missile and nuclear programs and the military exercises by the united states and south korea .
haley has dismissed the suggestion as insulting .