dublin ( reuters ) - an irish parliamentary committee on wednesday recommended that an abortion referendum due next year should offer the choice of allowing terminations with no restrictions up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy , a more liberal position than some had anticipated .
the cross-party committee s recommendations are not binding and the final wording of the planned referendum to change some of the world s strictest abortion laws will be down to the government and require the support of parliament .
abortion remains an acutely divisive issue in ireland , where the once all-pervasive political influence of the roman catholic church has lessened in the past 20 years .
legislation was changed only in 2013 to allow terminations in cases where the mother s life was in danger , after a woman who was having a miscarriage died of sepsis in a hospital where her medical team refused her pleas to end the failed pregnancy .
the government last year began a lengthy process to consider further changes and prime minister leo varadkar reiterated on wednesday that he would like to call a referendum for next may once parliament has considered the committee s recommendations .
a ipsos/mrbi poll in october showed that 57 percent of voters would support abortion in cases of rape , fatal foetal abnormality or a real risk to the life of the mother .
this was widely seen as a likely option to be offered to voters .
just 24 percent in the same poll said they would support a right to abortion in all circumstances up to the 22nd week of pregnancy .
in supporting a recommendation to legalize the termination of pregnancy with no restriction as to reason up to 12 weeks , the committee cited the complexities of legislating for the termination of pregnancy for reasons of rape and incest .
the measure was passed by 12 votes to five with four abstentions .
the committee , which has been holding hearings on the matter for the past three months , voted against a recommendation to allow abortion up to the 22nd week of pregnancy .
the committee s proposals will be included in a report due to be handed to government on dec. 20 .
some pro-choice activists have campaigned for a more liberal regime , closer to that of england , which allows terminations to be carried out up to 24 weeks after conception , while anti-abortion supporters demand no further changes to the law .