washington ( reuters ) - overuse of harsh sanctions like those deployed against iran to limit its nuclear program risks driving business activity from the united states and a move away from the dollar as the world ’ s reserve currency , u.s. treasury secretary jack lew said on wednesday .
sanctions have emerged as a favored policy tool of choice for the united states , which has used them against challenges as varied as drug trafficking , cyber attacks , jihadist financing , and russian actions in ukraine .
the economic measures enable the u.s. government to blacklist people and organizations , banning u.s. and sometimes even foreign citizens from dealing with them and effectively barring them from the international financial system .
for example , the united states was able to induce buyers of iranian oil to sharply curtail their purchases , and international banks cut ties with iran for fear of losing access to the u.s. financial system .
iran reached a deal with the united states and other world powers last july that lifted the harshest measures in return for curbs on its nuclear program .
but “ sanctions overreach ” risks encouraging businesses to avoid the u.s. financial system and could erode the power of the u.s. dollar as the pre-eminent reserve currency , lew said during a speech in washington .
“ the more we condition use of the dollar and our financial system on adherence to u.s. foreign policy , the more the risk of migration to other currencies and other financial systems in the medium-term grows , ” lew said .
in particular , so-called secondary sanctions should be wielded in the most “ exceptional ” circumstances , lew said .
those measures bar even non-u.s. citizens from dealing with sanctioned individuals or companies , and were the type of sanctions levied against iran .
“ they are viewed even by some of our closest allies as extra-territorial attempts to apply u.s. foreign policy to the rest of the world , ” lew said , adding that the iran nuclear sanctions should not be viewed as a “ starting point ” for other sanctions programs .
republicans in congress and on the presidential campaign trail have criticized the removal of sanctions on iran , and legislators have tried to restrict president barack obama ’ s ability to lift sanctions under the nuclear deal .
but because iran had “ kept its end of the deal , ” lew said , the united states should uphold the sanctions relief it has promised .
in recent weeks , iranian leaders have complained that u.s. policies have forced major banks and corporations to stay away from iran despite the formal lifting of sanctions in january .