the radical baltimore mayor who ordered the baltimore police department to stand down is now calling for a federal investigation into the baltimore police department .
what about a federal investigation into her reckless actions that were clearly motivated by her desire to side with the rioters ? ?
are we living in some alternate universe where all ability to reason and to use common sense has been removed from our society ? baltimore s streets will likely take years if not decades to recover after april s riots that left scores of business owners devastated and local police disheartened .
many cops feel demoralized , hung out to dry and abandoned , fox news leland vittert reported on hannity monday .
there s a sentiment here of why bother showing up ?
vittert added .
vittert was on the scene at what used to be ground zero for the rioting and said he had not seen a single police car during the time he was there .
the area is known for drug dealings and gang activity , according to vittert .
maryland gov .
larry hogan said more than 200 businesses were destroyed in the riots , fox reported .
so this was your life savings you put into this ?
vittert asked a business owner whose property was destroyed .
exactly , exactly , the business owner said .
he added that his life s work was demolished in 30 minutes by looters and vandals resulting in more than $ 30,000 worth of damage .
vitter talked to a pharmacy owner who said 99 percent of his store s shelves were ransacked and fears the prescription drugs are now out on the streets .
there were dozens of businesses that were looted , and what was stunning to the business owners themselves is as the looting was going on , they were calling 911 , vittert said .
and , as we have reported , the police did nothing because they had an order from the mayor to let them loot .
it s only property .
business owners are now faced with the difficult decision of whether to rebuild as they worry they will not be protected from future crime and violence.via : bizpacreview