tokyo ( reuters ) - tokyo governor yuriko koike said on sunday her new party aims to offer voters a middle of the fairway choice , seeking to differentiate her group from ruling , conservative liberal democratic party and smaller , left-leaning opposition parties .
koike s party of hope , launched just last month , is challenging prime minister shinzo abe s liberal democratic party-led ruling coalition in an oct. 22 election , promising to freeze a planned 2019 sales tax hike and consider a new tax on companies retained earnings .
if i use a golf course metaphor , right now , i believe we have right ( wing parties ) and left ( wing parties ) and nothing in between .
so we will present ourselves as the fairway , the very centre of the way , koike told a policy debate by major party leaders .
the outlook for the election is unclear but some analysts say koike s party may be losing steam because it had too little time to prepare for the snap poll .
her decision not to run for a lower house seat herself could also deter voters , they said .
a yomiuri newspaper survey published online later on sunday showed that 32 percent of voters planned to cast ballots for the ldp in proportional representation districts where voters pick a party , not a candidate , outstripping the 13 percent opting for the party of hope .
another 7 percent chose the small , new left-leaning constitutional democratic party of japan ( csdj ) .
koike said her party s policies aim to bring a new idea such as basic income and will be closer to consumers .
the idea of basic income is still experimental but we think this is something we should consider in the future , she said .
but koike declined to reveal who would lead a government should her party , formed only about two weeks ago by her supporters and some opposition lawmakers , be in a position to form one .
i will think about it after we see the results of the election , she said .
koike , a former ldp lawmaker , has repeatedly denied she would run for a seat in the election , which means she could not lead a government herself as the constitution stipulates a prime minister has to be selected from elected lawmakers .
that has led to speculation her party of hope may tie up with some ldp lawmakers who have been alienated by abe , such as former defense minister shigeru ishiba .
she told reuters on friday that all options were on the table regarding whom her party would back when parliament convenes to vote on a prime minister after the election .
while party of hope s economic policies differ from those of abe s conservative ldp , but many of its security and diplomatic policies echo ldp s agenda , including revision to japan s pacifist constitution .
the campaign for the oct. 22 election kicks off formally on oct. 10 .
abe reiterated during the debate that his government would remain in power if the ruling coalition wins a simple majority of the 465 seats up for grabs , although some analysts suggest he himself could face pressure to resign if his ldp fares badly .
the yomiuri survey showed support for abe s cabinet had dipped to 41 percent from 43 percent in late september .