frankfurt/berlin ( reuters ) - salomea genin , an 85-year-old jewish berliner who fled the nazis as a child , says she would flee germany a second time if the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) ever took power .
genin , who holds dual german and australian nationality , was shocked by comments this month by a top afd candidate in sunday s federal election , alexander gauland , that germans should take pride in what their soldiers achieved in two world wars .
i was speechless , said genin , who lost 29 family members during the holocaust , in which the nazis killed six million jews .
i never thought that i would again face a movement in germany with the sort of ideas that are coming out of the afd .
it is unlikely that genin , who returned to then-east germany in 1951 after growing up in australia , will have to pack her suitcases again any time soon .
although opinion polls suggest the anti-immigrant afd could become the third biggest party in the lower house bundestag after the election , other parties have vowed to shun it in negotiations to form a new coalition government .
the afd , which would be the first postwar far-right party to enter parliament , denies being racist .
germany , home today to an estimated 200,000 jews , has built a reputation in recent decades as a tolerant , safe place for jews to live , but official data show anti-semitic crimes reported to the police rising 4 percent to 681 in the first eight months of 2017 against the same period last year .
the real number is probably much higher .
nearly 93 percent of reported anti-semitic crimes were linked to far-right extremism , despite predictions that a large growth in the muslim population since europe s 2015 migrant crisis could fuel attacks or discrimination against jews .
police statistics and new private reporting sites report a growing number of anti-semitic crimes .
in addition , we have the impression that anti-semitic sentiments are being expressed without reservation on social media , said josef schuster , president of the central council of jews in germany .
schuster s group has urged political parties and non-governmental organizations to work together to combat right-wing extremism .
it has also backed calls for the german government to appoint a special commissioner for anti-semitism .
chancellor angela merkel s cabinet on wednesday adopted a broader definition of anti-semitism backed by the international holocaust remembrance alliance , and promised a resolute and consistent battle against every form of anti-semitism .
but it did not announce a special commissioner or adopt four other recommendations made by an independent council of experts .
volker beck , a member of the pro-environment greens party , accused the government of complacency .
we can t work magic , but doing nothing is just negligent .
when the word jew is used as a schoolyard taunt , something has to happen .
we should be alarmed , beck told reuters .
german schools have long taught about the holocaust , but rights groups say the rise of the afd and other far-right parties has lowered the barrier for anti-semitic comments and other hate speech .
miriam marhoefer , a 37-year-old jewish social worker from mannheim , drew a parallel with france , which some jews now regard as unsafe following increased attacks on them there .
my biggest fear is that ( germany ) will become like france , where jews are once again emigrating , said marhoefer .
marhoefer is taking part in a two-year-long course run by a branch of a century-old jewish welfare league that helps people to combat anti-semitism in their communities .
such programs are particularly important for people outside cities with large jewish communities , said anna sodki , 45 , a jewish economist from bergisch-gladbach , near cologne .
for a long time , we felt safe , she said .
but now , i don t wear my star of david out anymore .
you never know who you re going to be sitting next to on the train .
the central council is also training about 40 jewish youths aged 15 to 20 to visit german classrooms to challenge stereotypes and combat ignorance .
dimitri bilyarchyk , a 20-year-old student who took the training , said the word jew was often used as a slur and that young people in his native bavaria often referred to their last sip of beer as the judenschluck or jewish sip .
it s only words .
but many things start with words , and i think language is really important in this context , he said .
the official afd program says we stand with the jews .
to which i say , and i think i speak for all jews in germany , please stand somewhere else , bilyarchyk added .
when you incite hatred against one group of people ... be they jews or muslims or gay people , it s not long before they switch from muslims to us .