paris ( reuters ) - youths who torched a police car and attacked the car driver with an iron bar as he fled the flames were sentenced to up to seven years in jail by a french court on wednesday .
dozens of riot police were deployed outside the paris courthouse where the judge announced his verdict , after a trial prompted by the most striking episode of ultra-violent street protests last year against labor law reforms .
the case grabbed international attention in the run-up to this year s presidential election as politicians traded accusations of being soft on law and order - a flashpoint in a contest that far-right national front chief marine le pen ultimately lost to centrist candidate emmanuel macron .
it also made headlines due to extensive tv coverage of an incident where a group of protesters mobbed a police car , smashed its windows and threw a flare inside , forcing the car s two occupants to bail out as flames engulfed the vehicle .
the driver - dubbed kung fu cop by french media - became a subject of fascination after taking on one of the protesters who attacked him with an iron bar .
he fended off the blows with arm strokes worthy of a martial arts master .
his assailant was one of five people tried .
he was sentenced to three years in prison .
another protester got seven years but is on the run and believed to be in switzerland .
the incident , in may 2016 , was part of a wave of protests where gangs of mostly hooded youths engaged in running battles with riot police in the capital city and cities across france .
the protests were sparked by labor law changes which several labor unions and leftist politicians said would damage worker rights and make it easier for employers to fire people .
macron , a former investment banker regarded as a business-friendly centrist , has since taken over but is also introducing further labor law reforms that have put hardline unions back on the warpath , although protests have not so far been on a similar scale to 2016 s demonstrations .