miami ( reuters ) - when senator ted cruz took the stage on tuesday after winning the republican nominating contest in his home state of texas , he issued a call for the party to rally behind his presidential candidacy .
that seems a long shot .
republican party leaders came away from super tuesday - the 2016 presidential campaign ’ s biggest day of state-by-state nominating contests for the nov. 8 election - without any clearer consensus about how to slow front-runner donald trump ’ s march to the nomination .
they fear trump ’ s divisive rhetoric - which includes calls to build a wall along the u.s. border with mexico , deport 11 million illegal immigrants and temporarily bar muslims from entering the country - will tarnish the party ’ s image and ensure democrats hold on to the white house and possibly retake the senate .
the billionaire businessman won the largest number of super tuesday contests , taking seven states , but fell short of the 10 states some polls had predicted .
cruz won two , and u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida notched his first win , in minnesota .
that made cruz and rubio unlikely to withdraw from the race before the next big nominating contest in two weeks .
the same goes for ohio governor john kasich , who has said he will continue his candidacy through his state ’ s primary on march 15 .
“ so long as the field remains divided , donald trump ’ s path to the nomination remains more likely , and that would be a disaster for republicans , for conservatives and for the nation , ” cruz said .
trump ’ s failure to win a clean sweep of the primary contests on tuesday buys the establishment wing of the party time to intensify its counterattacks against the new york real estate mogul and political outsider .
while they have yet to coalesce around a single strategy , anti-trump republicans have begun taking action .
club for growth , a conservative advocacy group , claimed credit for slowing trump in some primary states by running attack ads .
“ donald trump can be stopped , ” said the group ’ s president , david mcintosh , in a statement .
“ and he must be , before he costs conservatives the white house , the senate , and the supreme court. ” the new york times reported that several financial backers of the republican party organized a phone call on tuesday to get funding for an anti-trump effort .
helping lead the call were the hedge-fund manager paul singer , chicago cubs co-owner todd ricketts , and meg whitman , the hewlett-packard enterprise chief executive .
the newspaper said it was unclear what kind of political offensive might emerge from those discussions .
a recently launched political action committee dedicated to blasting trump , our principles pac , said it was ramping up fundraising and planned daily attacks against trump before upcoming primaries in march .
it said the campaign would focus on trump ’ s business record and include a video where he declined in an interview to disavow former ku klux klan official david duke .
trump , who later rejected duke ’ s support , said he had not clearly heard the interviewer ’ s question .
on capitol hill , republican house of representatives speaker paul ryan , who will preside over the party ’ s nominating convention in july , made clear he disapproved of trump ’ s rhetoric in comments that suggested he was not ready to welcome trump into the establishment fold .
“ if a person wants to be the nominee of the republican party , there must be no evasion and no games .
they must reject any group or cause that is built on bigotry , ” ryan , the party ’ s 2012 vice presidential nominee , told reporters .
trump ratcheted up the tension during a news conference in palm beach , florida , on tuesday night , warning ryan he would pay “ a big price ” if he stood in trump ’ s way .
despite the establishment ’ s distaste for trump , there appears to be no consensus on the best way to stop him .
“ as long as both cruz , rubio and kasich remain in the race , then trump will continue to prevail in upcoming primary states and he will vacuum up the delegates while the vote splits among the remaining candidates , ” said ron bonjean , a republican operative in washington .
rubio and kasich have set their sights on delegate-rich contests in the heavily populated states of michigan , florida , ohio and illinois later this month .
more than 1,200 delegates are required by the party to secure its nomination .
the goal for the remaining campaigns will be to keep trump from amassing those delegates for as long as possible , with the hope that an increasing tide of criticism from the candidates , party leaders and political action committees will drain his support .
but bonjean said the party would have to find a way to thwart trump before he walked away with the nomination .
“ the odds of stopping trump are getting much lower with every state put away into his corner , ” he said .
( editing by peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .