fox news host sean hannity spent a whopping 6 seconds covering tuesday night s election results in which democrats gained seats across the country in a referendum to donald trump and his policies .
hannity , an ardent defender of trump s , explained the democratic electoral victories in three of the states by saying , those results in virginia , new jersey , and new york not states donald trump won .
hannity devoted 14 words to cover the election results in which democrats trounced republicans .
in fact , as shareblue notes , democrats flipped 14 seats in the virginia house of delegates the largest democratic gain in a single election in the state since 1899 .
hannity just shrugged it off.watch : sean hannity 's election coverage pic.twitter.com/l8dnjbfvrq john whitehouse ( @ existentialfish ) november 8 , 2017after the hate-march in charlottesville , virginia in which tiki-torch carrying bigots terrorized the city while marching in trump s name , resulting in the death of heather heyer , the commonwealth rejected hate and bigotry at the polls yesterday.newly elected virginia state delegate danica roem , an openly transgender woman , defeated bob marshall , a republican incumbent who billed himself as the commonwealth s chief homophobe .
instead of covering the big news , hannity , a man who can be spotted usually humping on trump s leg , decided to cover the former reality show star s speech in south korea and his 2016 victory .
tonight on # hannity we will cover president trump s speech in south korea and election results with @ sebgorka , @ ambjohnbolton , @ peterschweizer , @ monicacrowley , @ greggjarrett and more sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) november 8 , 2017and trump is the reason republicans lost so many seats last night , but hannity wants to sing his praises and ignore the massive beating the gop took.the internet decided to rub it in his face.what 's your take on the election results , sean ?
tommy vietor ( @ tvietor08 ) november 8 , 2017will you discuss the look on their faces ?
pic.twitter.com/u63kueez4s eric mcalister ( @ stankfunkmusic ) november 8 , 2017did the election results come in yet ?
pic.twitter.com/fzfjxjezma ? bluetexan ? ?
( @ lkjtexas ) november 8 , 2017how about the election in va big guy ?
thoughts ?
johnny foosball ( @ funkmnm ) november 8 , 2017let me save you a broadcast : election results lol pic.twitter.com/akx5j2jseg jazzie ( @ baddogs4343 ) november 8 , 2017feeling a little blue tonight ?
iamtanianow !
( @ iamtanianow ) november 8 , 2017what about the election landslide results in virginia and new jersey ?
sara burns ( @ velvetbarracuda ) november 8 , 2017will you be covering the crushing election defeat of the republican party ?
or do your viewers not need to hear about that ?
jason ( @ berg0887 ) november 8 , 2017that s some real in-depth reporting there , sean .
the fox news host likes to routinely call liberals snowflakes but he s the snowflakiest snowflake on tv .
it s probably better for hannity that he didn t report the actual news , though .
it looks like he was about to cry .
although , drinking hannity s salty conservative tears is kind of satisfying after trump stumped so hard for ed gillespie s campaign on twitter.image via screen capture .