the jurors in the freddie gray case were deadlocked so the judge asked them to continue deliberating .
in the end , they just couldn t come up with a verdict .
it didn t take long for protests to break out in front of the courthouse get ready for chaos once again in baltimore baltimore ( rnn ) the judge declared a mistrial in the case of an officer charged in connection with the death of freddie gray after the jury failed to reach a verdict following deliberations over the course of three days.freddie gray jurors deadlocked , judge says keep deliberating william porter was the first of six baltimore police officers on trial .
he was charged with manslaughter , second-degree assault , reckless endangerment and misconduct in office .
gray was injured after being taken into police custody and later died.a day before the mistrial , the judge ordered the jury to continue deliberating after they reported they had not reached a verdict .
the jury sent a note to the judge that they were deadlocked .
deliberations began on monday.demonstrations broke out downtown within minutes of the announcement of the verdict , and law enforcement officers tried to disperse crowds that were blocking traffic.tessa hill-aston , president of the baltimore chapter of the naacp , expected citywide protests wednesday night .
as much respect as i have for police , in this case freddie is dead , and it didn t have to be that way , hill-aston said .
officer porter admitted freddie asked for help , and he didn t give it to him .
at the end of the day , whenever someone asks for medical help and didn t get it , maybe freddie could still be alive .
gray suffered neck and spinal cord injuries while in the back of the van on april 12 .
that resulted in his death one week later after falling into a coma.the van made several stops with gray inside .
porter admitted in testimony last week he did not immediately call for a medic when gray initially asked for help during the fourth stop.prosecutors argued porter ignored gray s pleas for medical help and that porter , who was driving the police transport van , went against department policy by not securing gray properly in the back of the vehicle.baltimore city attorney marilyn mosby who said gray died from being handcuffed , shackled and unrestrained ruled the death a homicide and charged the officers on may 1.prosecutors must now decide whether to try porter again .
each officer charged was scheduled to have separate trials.via : kmov