canberra ( reuters ) - australia s high court said on thursday it was aware of the need to rule on the eligibility of seven lawmakers quickly , but warned it could not guarantee a speedy resolution to a case that threatens the government s one-seat majority in parliament .
parliament was rocked in august when seven lawmakers , including the deputy prime minister barnaby joyce and two other cabinet ministers , said they held dual-citizenship , potentially ruling them ineligible to hold elected office .
the uncertainty has put the government s future under the spotlight .
the court is aware of the need for a speedy decision , but it is not always possible to do so immediately , said chief justice , susan kiefel .
the court s decision will determine whether prime minister malcolm turnbull can maintain his shaky grip on power .
should the court rule that joyce , the sole lower house lawmaker caught up in the crisis , is ineligible , turnbull will need to win the support of one of three independent lawmakers to keep his minority government .
the remaining six politicians embroiled in the case are senators and their seats would be assigned to alternatives from their political party .
a potential deal with an independent politician would allow turnbull s government to continue until a special election for joyce s seat can be held , most likely in november .
joyce , popular among rural voters who dominate his local constituency , has already indicated he will stand for re-election after renouncing his new zealand citizenship in august .
special by-elections are extremely volatile but it is lucky for turnbull that it is joyce that may have to stand , as country australians seem not to trust the prime minister , said nick economou , senior lecturer in australian politics at monash university in melbourne .
support from rural voters , who overwhelmingly backed turnbull in his razor thin re-election last year , has fallen to its lowest level in more than two years , a newspoll for the australian newspaper on monday showed .