kampala ( reuters ) - at least five ugandan lawmakers received hospital treatment for injuries sustained while being dragged out of the parliament by plain-clothes security guards that opposition mps said were really soldiers from president yoweri museveni s special forces .
the clashes erupted in the chamber on tuesday and wednesday over a motion to end a constitutional limit on the president s age , effectively allowing 73-year-old museveni , one of africa s most entrenched big men , to extend his 31 years in power .
reinforcing lawmakers suggestions that soldiers had been involved in the incidents , television footage showed uganda s special forces commander was in parliament just before dozens of mps were forcibly removed .
ugandan authorities have not commented on the suggestions .
rights groups denounced the incidents as a violation of the parliament s bar on police or soldiers entering the chamber .
in effect what happened was an overthrow of the constitutional order , said nicholas opiyo , a kampala-based human rights lawyer and political analyst .
one of the ejected mps , gaffa mbwatekamwa , sported a cracked left arm in bandages and a sling as he described his ordeal .
these guys grabbed me from behind and one twisted my arm .
i started screaming and another one squeezed my balls , he told reuters at a kampala hospital where he was visiting a fellow injured legislator .
he and other mps said they had also been punched and kicked by the security guards .
mbwatekamwa added that some of the alleged guards were recognized as members of the armed forces .
that claim was backed up by footage aired on thursday by the private ntv uganda channel of special forces command ( sfc ) colonel don nabasa pacing the corridors of parliament moments before the security guards burst into the chamber .
police chief kale kayihura also told the nbs television channel police had enlisted the help of sister security agencies to clear parliament , a term frequently used by police to refer to the armed forces .
police spokesman asan kasigye denied legislators had been beaten by security personnel .
a spokesman for the special forces command said he could not comment beyond the statement from the police chief .
u.s. ambassador deborah malac criticized the rough treatment of the lawmakers and said she expected them to be treated humanely .
despite the growing cries of autocracy against museveni , washington has backed him as a strongman who has turned uganda into a bulwark of stability in africa s troubled great lakes region .
nabasa s predecessor as head of the special forces was museveni s son , muhoozi kainerugaba , who many ugandans believe is being groomed as a successor to his father .
uganda s next election is in 2021 .
museveni s moves to extend his term mirror similar attempts in neighboring democratic republic of congo and burundi , where they have sparked serious political instability , including armed insurrection .