manila ( reuters ) - the philippines said on tuesday it has withdrawn an application for a second grant from a u.s. aid agency after getting $ 434 million in 2010 aimed at reducing poverty , but that the move had nothing to do with western criticism of its human rights record .
projects financed by the aid agency , the millennium challenge corp ( mcc ) , require counterpart funding from the philippines , but presidential spokesman harry roque said the government wanted to channel resources instead into rebuilding marawi , a southern city devastated in fighting between the military and islamist insurgents this year .
it was deemed that for the time being , we will withdraw our application for the second cycle and we will focus instead on the rebuilding of marawi , roque said .
the issue of aid has been contentious in the philippines , with president rodrigo duterte objecting to donors attaching conditions , and especially to any expressions of concern about human rights .
nearly 4,000 people have been killed by police since june last year .
police reject allegations they are executing drug users and dealers and say killings were all in self-defence .
several thousand other people have been killed in mysterious circumstances , with the police usually attributing those deaths to gang violence .
in august , the mcc upheld the eligibility of the philippines to secure a fresh grant , after initially deferring a vote amid concern about duterte s war on drugs .
the southeast asian country graft-fighting efforts are also in the spotlight after it fell short of the control of corruption target on the mcc s scorecard .
but roque was quick to point out that the decision to withdraw the application for another mcc grant had nothing to do with such issues .
he said the government would probably apply for another mcc grant in future .
this year , his government rejected about 250 million euros ( $ 295 million ) in european union grants .
officials of the mcc were not available for comment .
the u.s. embassy in manila , without mentioning the philippines withdrawal of its grant application , said the mcc was pleased with its achievements in the philippines .
both the mcc and the united states are proud of our longstanding , positive relationship with the philippines , said embassy press attache molly koscina .