new york ( reuters ) - donald trump lost his social media dominance for the first time during the republican presidential debates as the candidates made their eighth showing saturday night in new hampshire .
instead , many on twitter took to mocking contender senator marco rubio , who came under heavy attack on saturday from rivals .
new jersey governor chris christie also saw a big bump in his share of the social conversation .
by the end of the night , trump , who has the most followers , still received the largest share of mentions on twitter inc ( twtr.n ) , with 33 percent compared to rubio ’ s 20 percent .
ted cruz , a u.s. senator from texas , came in third , with 15 percent .
but twitter said an hour into the debate that rubio was the most tweeted about candidate on the social media platform , marking the first time a candidate other than trump came out on top within that time frame .
overall , rubio received 10 more mentions per minute on twitter than he did during the last republican debate on jan. 28 , according to social media analytics firm zoomph .
three days before new hampshire ’ s primary for the nov. 8 election , many of the mentions were negative as rubio became a target for continuing to repeat many of the same lines from his campaign stump speech .
“ marco , the thing is this , ” said rival chris christie , the governor of new jersey , “ when you ’ re president of the united states , when you ’ re a governor of a state , the memorized 30-second speech where you talk about how great america is at the end of it doesn ’ t solve one problem for one person. ” that moment was measured by twitter as one of the top social moments of the night .
actress mia farrow , @ miafarrow , tweeted , “ rubio keeps saying the same thing. ” a marco rubio glitch ( @ rubioglitch ) account also emerged , gaining nearly 1,200 followers as of saturday night as it parodied rubio as a robot in tweets in spanish and english .
rubio also had his worst performance yet with millennials on the popular messaging app yik yak , where he had a 44 percent disapproval rating .
in contrast , ohio governor john kasich had his best performance with millennials , earning a 41.4 approval rating , and maintaining the largest share of the conversation on yik yak .
the debate was also a big night on social media for christie , who has rarely been a top contender in social mentions .
according to brandwatch , a social media analytics firm , he had the second highest percentage of positive social mentions , 61.5 percent , compared to trump ’ s 62.5 percent .
tyler freeman ( @ tyfreem ) tweeted , “ # gopdebate chris christie has been most underrated candidate the whole campaign .
he finally stood out tonight .
one of the best performances. ” ( reporting by anjali athavaley ; editing by leela de kretser and mary milliken ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .