ottawa ( reuters ) - canadian prime minister justin trudeau s government has been badly shaken by a conflict-of-interest controversy about his finance minister , but the liberal government s upcoming fiscal update offers an opportunity to reset the public focus on canada s strong economy , political observers say .
the government has been plagued all week about questions about the finance minister , bill morneau , the multimillionaire former chief executive officer of human resources management firm morneau shepell .
some have questioned whether morneau would be forced to resign .
the focus has been a rare stumble for trudeau s government , which marked two years in office this month and has mostly maneuvered its way out of political trouble partly because of trudeau s personal popularity and the youthful momentum of the liberals after 10 years of conservative rule .
they re politically very astute in a whole bunch of areas but in issues management and parliamentary management they seem to be ham-fisted , said andrew graham , professor at the school of policy studies at queen s university .
with trudeau s strong defense of morneau , and the finance minister likely to unveil a smaller budget deficit in tuesday s fall fiscal update , liberals have a temporary chance to refocus on good news .
economic conditions are a bedrock of whether people feel good or bad about how politicians are performing , and the economy is doing very well for most people , said abacus data pollster bruce anderson .
morneau said on thursday he will put his assets in a blind trust and divest stock in a publicly traded family business .
that comes after weeks of backlash over tax reform that has become a major obstacle for trudeau s government .
opposition parties from both the political left and right have seized on the ethics scandal , trying to tie trudeau s team to what they say is an entitled liberal party that has previously faced corruption charges .
the opposition has changed the focus from substance to ethics , and they won t let that go that easily , said genevieve tellier , a political professor at the university of ottawa .
but tellier said trudeau s decision to fill his cabinet with political rookies - including morneau - rather than turning to the old liberal guard , could limit the ability of the opposition to land many ethical punches .
moreover , morneau is respected by markets .
i think the prime minister would be very cautious about changing his finance minister .
... ( morneau ) presents a reassuring image , he doesn t scare the markets , tellier said .
ipsos public affairs pollster darrell bricker put it more bluntly : they really don t have a choice but to tough it out and hope some event will transpire to distract the hyenas .
the expected budget improvement in tuesday s fall fiscal update could also give morneau the leeway to woo voters with more spending or debt reduction .
the way the numbers are playing out , they are in a fairly favorable fiscal position , said paul ferley , assistant chief economist at royal bank of canada .
morneau spokesman dan lauzon said the finance minister has no plans to change his strategy , and would keep focus on fiscal stimulus matters : he is in this for the long run , and he won t let distractions get in the way .