barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - a general strike called by pro-independence campaigners in catalonia closed shops and severed transport links on wednesday , as the region s deposed leader lost political momentum after failing to seal an electoral pact with another party .
protesters closed roads , causing huge tailbacks into barcelona , while some public transport ran minimum services and some smaller stores remained shuttered .
reuters saw hundreds of strikers gathered in barcelona s main sant jaume square to protest the imprisonment of politicians , chanting the name of ex-leader carles puigdemont and referring to him as our president .
but he faces an uphill task to maintain influence after he missed a deadline of midnight on tuesday to agree a pro-secessionist pact for a regional election with his former vice president oriol junqueras .
the central government in madrid called the election for dec. 21 after last month assuming control of catalonia following its parliament s unilateral independence declaration .
spain s constitutional court on wednesday officially annulled the declaration , which it had suspended , a widely expected ruling .
catalonia s secessionist push has plunged spain into its worst political crisis in four decades , leading to a business exodus and reopened old wounds from the civil war in the 1930s .
junqueras is in custody on charges of sedition , rebellion and misuse of public funds .
but polls show his leftist erc party will win three times as many seats next month in the regional assembly than the centre-right pdecat of puigdemont , who is in self-imposed exile in belgium and facing the same charges .
if that forecast proves correct it represents a very uncomfortable position for puigdemont , said jose miguel de elias , of political consultancy sigma dos .
if ( the secessionists ) get enough seats to form a government , he would be vice president , which ... would not suit him .
in catalonia there was a mixed reaction to the pro-independence strike , called by two civic groups , whose heads were imprisoned last month on sedition charges , and a labor union .
people stood across dozens of major highways waving placards and chanting freedom for political prisoners , tv and video images showed , while minor scuffles were reported on social media as police attempted to move protesters .
while many smaller stores left their shutters down due the strike , most larger shops and businesses appeared to be open as normal .
why should i strike , nobody is going to raise my salary ...
the politicians should work more and stop their silliness , jose luis , a barcelona construction worker , told reuters tv on his way to work .
protester josep cardona , a 55-year-old office worker , had not joined a previous strike , but this time with putting people in prison , it has all gone too far , he said .
strike supporter nuria catalana , a 64-year-old nurse , said she had favored a pro-secessionist electoral pact , but understood the difficulties involved .
we ll have to see if they really pay attention to whoever wins the election .
we have to continue the struggle , she said .
puigdemont had ambitions to garner support for his independence campaign in the heartland of the european union .
but that hope has fallen flat , and in an interview published on wednesday he renewed criticism of the bloc s executive .
( eu commission president jean-claude ) juncker welcomes mayors , governors ... but he doesn t want to meet me , puigdemont told belgian daily de standaard .
i ve always been a convinced european ...
but the people who are running the eu now are wrecking europe .
prime minister mariano rajoy , who has been unwavering in his opposition to any form of independence for catalonia , said he hoped next month s election would usher in a period of calm and business as usual for the region .
i m hoping for massive participation ... and , after that , we ll return to normality , he said in the madrid parliament building on wednesday .
an opinion poll released on sunday by barcelona-based newspaper la vanguardia showed junqueras erc could garner 45 or 46 seats in the regional assembly and puigdemont s pdecat just 14 or 15 .
that would leave them needing to form a parliamentary alliance with anti-capitalist cup to reach the 68-seat threshold for a majority .
erc and pdecat could still reach an agreement after the vote , but by standing together they could have held more seats , polls and projections from the 2015 election results showed .