united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council will meet on friday at the request of eight states on the 15-member body over u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel , diplomats said on wednesday .
the request for u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres to publicly brief the security council meeting was made by france , bolivia , egypt , italy , senegal , sweden , britain and uruguay , said diplomats .
trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy on wednesday , generating outrage from palestinians and defying warnings of middle east unrest .
trump also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
israel considers the city its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
the u.n. has given jerusalem a special legal and political status , which the security council has called upon the international community to respect .
that is why we believe the council needs to address this issue with urgency , deputy swedish u.n .
ambassador carl skau said on wednesday .
a u.n. security council resolution adopted in december last year underlines that it will not recognize any changes to the 4 june 1967 lines , including with regard to jerusalem , other than those agreed by the parties through negotiations .
that resolution was approved with 14 votes in favor and an abstention by former u.s. president barack obama s administration , which defied heavy pressure from long-time ally israel and trump for washington to wield its veto .
after trump spoke on wednesday , u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres told reporters : i have consistently spoken out against any unilateral measures that would jeopardize the prospect of peace for israelis and palestinians .
in this moment of great anxiety , i want to make it clear : there is no alternative to the two-state solution .
there is no plan b , he said .
i will do everything in my power to support the israeli and palestinian leaders to return to meaningful negotiations .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley praised trump s decision as the just and right thing to do .