kiev/new york ( reuters ) - ukraine s petro poroshenko met u.s. president donald trump on thursday and said afterwards that they had a shared vision on a new level of defense cooperation , but not whether this included the u.s. provision of defensive weapons to ukraine .
the united states is reviewing whether to send weapons to ukraine to help it defend itself , an option that previous u.s. president barack obama vetoed and which is opposed by russia .
after meeting trump in new york , president poroshenko told a televised briefing : it s very important that there is a shared vision on a new level of cooperation in the defense sphere .
we discussed all areas of this cooperation , including cooperation with the defense ministry and other institutions , he added , without saying whether there had been any progress on the defensive weapons initiative .
the two leaders skirted around the topic of russia when they spoke to reporters at the beginning of their private meeting .
instead , they chose to emphasize economic cooperation when they appeared before reporters at their meeting on the fringes of the u.n. general assembly .
relations between kiev and moscow are at their lowest ebb since russia annexed crimea more than three years ago and russian-backed separatist fighters took up arms against ukrainian government forces in the east of the country .
before holding private talks , trump praised poroshenko , telling him that i wouldn t say it s ( ukraine ) the easiest place to live but it s getting better and better on a daily basis .
speaking in english , poroshenko said he believed that the two countries had improved security and economic cooperation with many u.s. companies doing business in ukraine .
that s a story that s pretty untold , said trump .
companies are going very strongly right now into the ukraine , they see a tremendous potential there .
it was not immediately clear if they spoke privately about relations with russian president vladimir putin , who did not attend the u.n. general assembly .
the war in eastern ukraine between pro-russian separatists and ukrainian government forces has killed more than 10,000 people in three years .
kiev accuses moscow of sending troops and heavy weapons to the region , which russia denies .
poroshenko said trump had supported ukraine s proposal to deploy u.n peacekeepers including on the uncontrolled part of the ukraine-russia border , which would prevent the possibility of penetration by russian troops or russian weapons .
putin this month also suggested u.n. peacekeepers be deployed to eastern ukraine .
but russia has balked at ukraine s proposal that would ban any russian nationals from taking part in the peacekeeping mission which kiev wants deployed along the part of its border with russia it does not control .
poroshenko said the meeting with trump lasted an hour and was also attended by u.s. vice president mike pence , secretary of state rex tillerson and other senior u.s. officials .