madrid ( reuters ) - two former members of the catalan government held in custody over their roles in catalonia s banned independence drive have asked to be released from custody after accepting madrid s control of the region , according to appeals published on monday .
prime minister mariano rajoy sacked the catalan government and took control in october , hours after the catalan parliament made a unilateral declaration of independence in a vote boycotted by the opposition and declared illegal by spanish courts .
lawyers for jordi turull and josep rull have lodged requests with the high court to be released , saying they had not shown any resistance to rajoy instigating direct rule over catalonia by activating article 155 of the spanish constitution .
six other ex-members of the catalan government and the leaders of the two main pro-independence grassroots groups are also in jail awaiting trial at the high court on charges of rebellion and sedition .
catalonia s independence movement has deeply divided spain , dragging it into its worst political crisis since the return of democracy four decades ago and fuelling anti-spanish sentiment in catalonia and nationalist tendencies elsewhere .
rajoy has called a dec. 21 election in catalonia , which he hopes will lead to a unionist majority in the regional parliament .
separatist parties failed to agree to run on a united ticket , knocking their chances of retaining control .
in their requests to the court , turull and rull s lawyers said there was no risk their clients would hide or alter or destroy evidence .
my client has accepted the application of article 155 of the constitution by the spanish government , they said .
earlier this month , spain s supreme court released the catalan parliament speaker carme forcadell on bail of 150,000 euros after she agreed to renounce any political activity that went against the spanish constitution .
ousted catalan leader carles puigdemont is in belgium , and spain has issued a european arrest warrant for him .
he said a week ago he might consider a solution to the crisis that did not involve catalonia s secession .