nobody can accuse former gop rep. joe walsh of having a clear view of anything .
that s never been more apparent than last night , as walsh put his response to the news of at least two snipers murdering dallas police officers into a series of tweets .
he hates president obama , and now he gets to blame obama for someone s death .
he didn t stop there , though .
no , merely misplacing blame isn t low enough for this sewer scum .
he said : then he went on a rant against obama that he no doubt thinks is rife with patriotism , but in reality is nothing more than racist , projectile word vomit : when obama goes after cops it opens the door for anti cop rhetoric and action .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016 obama has blood on his hands joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 201610 cops shot.this is on obama .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016 10 cops shot.you did this obama.you did this liberals.you did this # blm.time to defend our cops .
wake up .
https : //t.co/zoc3x2xlmk joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 20164 dead.obama stoked the flame.blm did this.cops are dying .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016 4 dallas cops assassinated tonight.blacks lives matter cheers.lgbt blames christians.obama defends islam .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016obama says cops are racist so 2 uneducated black thugs shoot 10 dallas cops tonight , killing 4.wake up silent majority .
stand w our cops .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016 it s time 4 patriotic americans to stand up & stand against all the cop haters from obama to the thugs on the street.it s way past time .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016after he was done with that , and the internet had long since begun to shred him for issuing threats against obama , he showed himself for the tiny fraction of a man that he is by deleting the tweet and then trying to backpedal : i wasn t calling for violence , against obama or anyone .
obama s words & blm s deeds have gotten cops killed .
time for us to defend our cops .
joe walsh ( @ walshfreedom ) july 8 , 2016what part of watch out obama .
watch out black lives matter punks .
real america is coming after you , is not a threat ?
here s hoping the secret service and the fbi show up at his doorstep to investigate this.featured image by gage skidmore .
licensed under cc by-sa 2.0 via flickr