paris ( reuters ) - french police arrested nine people and another was arrested in switzerland in coordinated counter-terrorism swoops that follow a spate of deadly attacks in europe in recent years .
swiss officials said a 23-year-old colombian woman was taken into custody after police raids there .
a swiss man aged 27 was among those arrested in parallel french police swoops linked to islamist militant activity , they added .
french police conducted simultaneous raids on premises on the eastern edge of paris and in the southeastern region that borders italy and switzerland , taking nine people into custody , a source in the french judiciary said .
those arrested were aged from 18 to 65 years , said the french source , who spoke on condition of anonymity standard practice for most french officials on such matters .
le parisien newspaper said it was possible the raids had thwarted an attack .
the french judicial source spoke of suspected participation in a criminal terrorist network and of communications via the telegram network that many militants use because messages can be encrypted .
a swiss statement cited suspected involvement in terrorist activity and banned islamist militant groups such as al qaeda and islamic state .
the arrests took place a week after france introduced tougher national security laws to permanently replace emergency powers given to police and intelligence services following deadly attacks by islamist militants on paris two years ago .
more than 240 people have been killed in france since early 2015 in attacks by islamist militants or assailants inspired by the islamic state group , which has sought to establish a caliphate in syria and iraq and called for attacks on france .
france is among countries contributing to military operations against islamic state in iraq and syria .
french interior minister gerard collomb , who says 32 attack plots have been thwarted in the past two years in france , played down the latest operation when asked about it during a visit to berlin .
it s part of operations which , sadly , are conducted relatively regularly , where we arrest a number of people we consider dangerous , he said .