is there really any point to go through the work and expense to become an american citizen anymore ? huntington park may become the first city in california to appoint two undocumented immigrants as commissioners on city advisory boards , a lawmaker confirms.city councilman jhonny pineda has picked francisco medina to join the health and education commission and julian zatarain for the parks and recreation commission.the 32-year-old lawmaker told cbsla online producer deborah meron that he promised voters while running for office that he would create more opportunities for undocumented residents .
huntington park is a city of opportunity and a city of hope for all individuals regardless of socioeconomic status , race , creed , or in this case , citizenship , the councilman said in a statement .
both these gentlemen have accomplished a great deal for the city .
for that , on behalf of the city council , mayor , and our city , i want to say thank you to them both and i am confident they will do an excellent job on their commission posts .
pineda says he cleared the appointments with the city attorney , who confirmed there s nothing that requires a commissioner to be a registered voter , a documented citizen or even a resident , which technically means someone here without legal residency can serve.appointees first pass a lifescan background check.medina and zatarain would not be paid for the volunteer positions and would not have a direct hand in constructing policy but would help advise the council on legislation .
other commissioners receive a $ 75 monthly stipend on months when they hold meetings.coming the same year that california allowed residents to apply for a driver s license , regardless of immigration status , this move is the latest in an effort to recognize an increasingly sizable demographic in the state.pineda says at 13 years old he emigrated alone to the united states .
he established legal residency and told meron he feels blessed to have been able to come here and work .
he s served as a district representative on the california state senate and legislative assistant for the u.s. house of representatives .
he currently is president of the california latino leadership institute , an organization designed for young professionals interested in leadership development and serving their community.a graduate from cal state dominguez hills with a bachelor s degree in sociology and chicano studies , medina interned for then-assemblyman gil cedillo , who now serves on the los angeles city council , pineda says .
medina also organizes immigration forums aimed a helping working-class communities.pineda says the decision will be announced at the city council meeting scheduled for 6 p.m. monday and will become official after being processed by the council.via : cbs los angeles