mexico city ( reuters ) - senior mexican diplomats on monday condemned the upcoming execution of a mexican inmate on death row in texas , calling his sentence illegal and vowing to exhaust all possible efforts to prevent him from being killed later this week .
in a news conference in mexico city , carlos sada , mexico s deputy foreign minister for north america , told reporters that texas prosecutors did not follow due process in the case of ruben cardenas , who was sentenced to death for raping and killing his 15-year-old cousin in 1997 .
from the start , there has been a failure , and from our perspective , this is an illegal act , sada said .
the planned execution comes as relations between mexico and the united states are at a low , hurt by u.s. president donald trump s vows to build a wall along the mexican border , and his threats to end the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) .
cardenas , who is due to die on wednesday , was not given the chance to speak with consular officials in contravention of the vienna convention on consular relations , sada said .
he added mexico would look to stay the execution by seeking to overturn how cardenas confession was obtained , while also looking to exonerate him with up-to-date dna testing .
there are currently two separate appeals under way and mexico is willing to take cardenas case all the way to the u.s. supreme court if necessary , sada added .
mexico does not have the death penalty and opposes it , regularly clashing with the united states when mexican nationals are set to be executed on u.s. soil .
sada said 54 mexicans were currently facing u.s. death sentences .
the international court of justice ( icj ) in the hague ruled in 2004 that the united states had violated international law by failing to inform 51 mexicans now on death row of their right to consular assistance , and said the cases should be reviewed .
alejandro alday , a legal advisor to the mexican government , said cardenas was one of the 51 covered by the icj ruling , and accused texas of breaching the vienna convention in failing to advise cardenas of his right to consular assistance .