this morning , trump s former campaign manager was indicted for conspiracy against the united states , a.k.a .
treason ( among other things you can read the full list of charges here ) , and ordered to turn himself in to the fbi .
as he did so , every news outlet was busy covering it , reporting on the situation as it developed .
except for fox news .
they must have needed some time to decide on their spin because they were reporting on candy and hamburger emojis while the story on paul manafort unfolded.seriously .
they were reporting on halloween candy and some kind of hamburger emoji crisis at google as the first indictment in robert mueller s russia investigation was unsealed and handed down.8:30am : cnn , bloomberg , msnbc , fox pic.twitter.com/zfbo4priso rogue cpi ( @ roguecpi ) october 30 , 2017as of 8:41 , fox has moved on to real issues .
pic.twitter.com/dwgqgthw5r rae whitlock ( @ raewhitlock ) october 30 , 2017this is fox news currently pic.twitter.com/4yinn7exr5 josh s nchez ( @ jnsanchez ) october 30 , 2017cnn : paul manafort to turn himself in to fbi today msnbc : manfort told to surrender fox news : important story on hamburger emojis ? ? ?
pic.twitter.com/aq8gxpah8n strictlycovfef ?
( @ christoq ) october 30 , 2017everybody else is talking about the paul manafort arrest , @ foxnews is talking about cheeseburger emojis .
# muellermonday pic.twitter.com/y8vqpcimyg carrietbow ( @ carrietbow ) october 30 , 2017they did start talking about manafort , and even published an opinion piece from contributor erick erickson , who is trying to spin this news into nothing by saying that it looks like the charges against manafort have nothing to do with trump .
he is , of course , calling the whole thing a conspiracy in which mueller comes up completely empty on the collusion story.har de har har .
manafort is a slimeball .
unless trump has something serious on him ( and what could be more serious than the charges already against him ?
) , manafort will probably place his own ass above trump s.featured image via frederick m. brown/getty images and twitter