edmonton , alberta ( reuters ) - canada defended its immigration and refugee vetting system on monday after a somali immigrant , who had drawn scrutiny for his alleged extremist views , was charged with attempted murder for a weekend vehicle and knife attack that injured five .
abdulahi hasan sharif , 30 , is accused of running down a police officer with his car in edmonton , alberta , and then stabbing him repeatedly .
he then ran down four pedestrians during an attempt to evade capture .
sharif faces 11 charges including five for attempted murder linked to the rampage in the western canadian city on saturday night and police said more charges could be laid .
he came to canada in 2012 and was granted refugee status in the same year , public safety minister ralph goodale said .
though targeted in a probe two years ago for promoting extremist ideology , sharif was deemed to pose no threat after what the royal canadian mounted police ( rcmp ) described on sunday as an exhaustive investigation .
goodale said it would be wrong to blame the attack on any shortcomings in canada s immigration and refugee vetting system .
there s absolutely no evidence of that whatsoever .
the investigation is ongoing , but that conclusion is just not supported by the facts , goodale told reporters in ottawa .
still , the attack could leave prime minister justin trudeau open to more criticism from conservatives for the welcoming message he extended to refugees earlier this year , after u.s. president donald trump issued a travel ban targeting several muslim-majority countries .
canada has seen a surge in illegal border crossings this year as people fearing a u.s. immigration crackdown and possible deportation sought asylum .
opposition conservative parliamentarian michelle rempel said the incident raised questions about how police and immigration officials share information .
if there are gaps in the system that allowed this to happen , what are we going to do to fix those ?
rempel asked in comments to reuters .
edmonton s refugee and somali communities are bracing for a backlash in the wake of the attack , and met on monday to discuss how to move forward , said ahmed abdulkadir , executive director of the ogaden somali community of alberta .
we ve been receiving phone calls from moms asking us what to do and whether it s safe to send their children to school , abdulkadir said .
sharif s bail hearing was delayed until tuesday but police released a photo of sharif taken after his capture , showing a young man gazing directly at the camera , a large bruise on his forehead .
karen king , one of sharif s neighbors in an edmonton , said he kept to himself and lived alone .
another , jeff dearman , said he played loud music and chanted sometimes .
it was all normal other than that , dearman said .
two of the four people injured on saturday remained in hospital , with one listed in serious condition , rcmp superintendent stacey talbot told a news conference .
despite the incident , canada s government said it was keeping the terrorism threat level at medium , where it has been since late 2014 after two deadly attacks attributed to homegrown radicals .
the incidents led to tougher new anti-terrorism measures .
in october , 2014 , a gunman killed a soldier at ottawa s national war memorial before launching an attack on the canadian parliament .
in the same week , a man ran down two soldiers in quebec , killing one .