i m embarrassed that i know people who will actually pay money to go see a movie this dingbat actress is embarrassed to have taken part in .
these people keep defining this insane progressive narrative , and the people who vehemently disagree with them keep lining their pockets .
i ll never understand it two-time oscar-nominated actress rooney mara regrets playing the role of a native american character in last year s pan , as she said it put her on the wrong side of hollywood s whitewashing debate.during a wide-ranging interview with the telegraph that was published on monday , the 30-year-old carol actress acknowledged the backlash from her being cast to play tiger lily in the critical and financial flop , and expressed regret over having accepted the role .
i really hate , hate , hate that i am on that side of the whitewashing conversation , she told the paper .
i really do .
i don t ever want to be on that side of it again .
i can understand why people were upset and frustrated .
warner bros. was heavily criticized for casting of mostly white actors in pan , and a petition specifically targeting mara garnered nearly 100,000 signatures .
there were two different periods ; right after i was initially cast , and the reaction to that , and then the reaction again when the film came out , she said of the backlash .
she added : it was never my intention to play a native american girl .
mara further stated that she enjoyed working on the film , but regretted its mostly white cast , which included her and actors hugh jackman , garrett hedlund , and levi miller .
do i think all of the four main people in the film should have been white with blond hair and blue eyes ?
she asked no .
i think there should have been some diversity somewhere .
commenting on the debate surrounding the controversial lack of diversity in this year s oscars nominees , mara said , i have a lot to say and i have very strong opinions about it , but it is such a sensitive issue i don t want to reduce it to a sound bite .
she concluded there is absolutely whitewashing in hollywood , and she feels really bad and embarrassed to be a part of that .
mara is one of the 20 all-white performers who were nominated for oscars this year , and is in contention for a best supporting actress award.she was nominated for a best actress award in 2012 for her role in the girl with the dragon tattoo .
via : breitbart hollywood