berlin ( reuters ) - parties seeking to form germany s next government found common ground in areas of social policy and digital infrastructure on monday , but remain far apart on issues that provoked stormy clashes last week .
talks between conservatives , greens and free democrats ( fdp ) resumed on monday after chancellor angela merkel convened a weekend meeting to clear the air between ideologically diverse parties forced by electoral arithmetic into awkward partnership .
the weekend pause for thought did us good , said andreas scheuer , a leader in the conservative christian social union ( csu ) , the bavarian sister party to merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) .
other party leaders agreed .
but monday s talks , on education , digitalization , pensions and labor issues , as well as domestic security , were always expected to be less contentious than the immigration , fiscal and climate policies that divided them last week .
one sign of the division came in an interview merkel ally peter altmaier gave to the newspaper die zeit , where he shot down media reports about a reshuffling of ministerial portfolios .
der spiegel magazine reported the fdp might head a weakened finance ministry , with key european affairs functions hived off to another ministry .
the finance ministry is a strong ministry and should remain so in future , altmaier told die zeit .
altmaier runs merkel s office and has been acting finance minister since wolfgang schaeuble s move agreed last month to leave the post and become president of parliament .
negotiators emerged on monday with a document spelling out areas where they had reached agreement , including commitments to universal gigabit-speed internet by 2025 , and spending 3.5 percent of economic output on research and development .
after discussions that ran late into the evening , they also signed up to merkel s election campaign pledge of achieving full employment , without giving a specific target date .
merkel , whose conservatives came first but lost seats in the sept. 24 national elections must forge a so-called jamaica coalition - named because the three camps colors match that country s flag - that is untested at national level .
three more rounds of more detailed exploratory talks are planned for this week and four for next .
if successful , the parties can then begin formal coalition talks .