pigford has to be the biggest scam and fraud ever but i ll bet most americans haven t even heard about it .
it s all about free money !
yes , free money for everyone except you have to be a minority to get the $ 50,000 and it s taxpayer dollars so it s not free at all .
our government has spent over $ 4 billion dollars on what was to be a small program to help minority farmers who felt they were discriminated against : essentially , the process encouraged people to lie and spawned a cottage industry .
claimants had only to file applications for a $ 50,000 payment by stating that they had thought about applying for loans to become a farmer .
where s congress on this big taxpayer giveaway ?
oh , they re voting for billions more to go to this scam of major proportions the obama administration has again been protected from a troubling scandal by the mainstream media ( msm ) using the tactic of omission to simply ignore the scandal , its reality , and the negative blowback attendant to a disturbing story .
as sunlight began to illuminate the scandal s inconvenient and troubling facts , charges of racism were used to temporarily silence those sounding the alarm .
seemingly , the alarm-ringers only crime was having the temerity to respond with a politically incorrect point of view to abuses.the underreported scandal referenced is generally identified as pigford .
pigford s germination occurred in 1997 as a lawsuit ( pigford vs. glickman ) alleging that 91 african-american farmers were unfairly denied loans by the united states department of agriculture ( usda ) due to racial discrimination which prevented the complainants from farming .
in 1999 , the black farmers won their case.pigford has the distinction of being an out-of-control waste of taxpayer funds and/or a cynical attempt by the obama administration to curry favor with certain minority groups to which neither president obama nor attorney general eric holder can plead ignorance of involvement .
both have had knowledge since the court ruled on the pigford lawsuit ; in 2008 , then-senator barack obama supported and voted for the funding of the initial settlement .
since then , eric holder ( and obama ) have been involved in overseeing and managing the pigford judgment fund .
yet can pigford be fairly described as a scandal ? pigford began innocently enough : as a lawsuit to redress a perceived wrong against a group of 91 .
but then the number climbed to 400 .then 1,600 then the number of black farmers has metastasized nay , exploded and the aggrieved group now includes not only blacks , but hispanics , native americans , and females .
in fact over 90,000 people have filed claims seeking a payment under the terms of the original pigford court ruling .
that decision , now referred to as pigford # 1 , was anticipated to cost approximately $ 120 million , including legal fees.pigford # 2 is the appellation used to identify an expanded payment regime that funds more payments to african-americans , native americans , hispanics , and females .
this regimen grew out of the fact that thousands of claimants missed the original pigford # 1 filing deadline of october 12 , 1999 .
interestingly , native american potential claimants were estimated at 5,300 , while plaintiff lawyers pegged the exposure at an estimated 19,000 native americans .
the judgment fund announced by agricultural secretary thomas vilsack and eric holder in 2010 was expanded from just over $ 120 million to $ 1.25 billion , given the expectation of many more filers.however , the explosion of claimants has caused payouts to reach $ 4.4 billion and has swelled legal fees to over $ 130 million .
more importantly , the claim s process created a rush to get a share of the monies allocated to the judgment fund , even if no real claim existed .
essentially , the process encouraged people to lie and spawned a cottage industry .
claimants had only to file applications for a $ 50,000 payment by stating that they had thought about applying for loans to become a farmer .
proof of a claimant s intent to farm also included a statement from that petitioner saying he or she had attempted to farm by planting a batch of tomatoes in his or her backyard and having that statement verified by a family member .
in essence , the need to be a farmer at the time of the alleged discriminatory actions by the usda was not a requirement to share in the financial redress.fraud was endemic to the claims process for example , every apartment in a new york city building received a settlement of at least $ 50,000 .
further , some families received checks of $ 50,000 for each family member.read more : american thinker