berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel s conservatives and the centre-left social democrats ( spd ) say they hope to find clarity soon on prospects for a new ruling coalition as they gear up for exploratory talks this week .
the conservatives , meeting on monday to map out their negotiating positions , believe compromises can be reached to renew the grand coalition that governed for the past four years .
the two blocs must overcome differences over the future of europe , pensions , health care and education .
merkel , whose cdu/csu alliance last month failed to cut a coalition deal with two smaller parties after an inconclusive national election in september , is due to brief the media at 1 pm ( 1200 gmt ) .
senior conservatives on saturday rejected the vision for a united states of europe put forward by spd leader martin schulz , weakened after his party posted its worst post-war election result in september .
but annegret kramp-karrenbauer , the conservative premier of the saarland region , told broadcaster ard that she hoped some progress could emerge from this week s talks with the spd .
maybe we can take a first big step in this direction this week , she said .
spd secretary general lars klingbeil told ard his party was open to all possibilities , including a renewed coalition with conservatives or a minority government .
the ball is now in mrs. merkel s court , klingbeil said , adding that the pace of negotiations depended to a large extent on the core demands of the christian democrats ( cdu ) and its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) .
the spd made its positions clear at its party conference .
now we ll listen to what the cdu leader wants , what the csu wants , and it will be clear very quickly if further discussions are worth it , he said .
a poll published on monday by broadcaster rtl and n-tv showed 71 percent of spd members welcomed the party s decision to talk with conservatives about forming a new ruling coalition , while 81 percent wanted the party to conduct tough negotiations .
klingbeil said his party would seek clear commitments from the cdu to spend more on education and combat childhood poverty before entering coalition talks .
julia kloeckner , deputy leader of the cdu , warned the spd against making exaggerated demands and criticised comments klingbeil made over the weekend suggesting that talks could stretch as long as may .
if the spd thinks we have time forever , that is not our view , she said .
monday s poll showed that 71 percent of german voters favored rapid negotiations on forming a new government .
kloeckner said it was clear that the two political blocs would have to revisit issues such as integration , digitalization and development of rural areas before agreeing to a new coalition .
a continuation of the previous grand coalition can not happen , she said .