port-au-prince ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron vowed to quickly rebuild the islands of the french caribbean during a visit on tuesday meant to dispel anger at his government s response to hurricane irma , which killed at least 43 people in the region .
the clutch of caribbean islands hardest hit by the storm were mainly overseas territories belonging to britain , france and the netherlands , whose tens of thousands of residents are european union citizens .
the u.s. virgin islands were also hard hit .
european countries and the united states have sent troops to deliver aid and provide security after the storm toppled homes and hospitals , but locals and tourists short of food or shelter say help was slow to arrive .
macron , who is also facing the first test at home of his resolve to reform the economy with a day of protests against his labor reforms , denied that authorities reacted too slowly .
basic services in the region were lost after irma , weakening law and order , and looting erupted on some islands .
haiti s government said on tuesday more than 10,000 people were in shelters after heavy rains flooded the former french colony .
britain was forced to reinforce its marines on the british virgin islands after more than 100 very serious inmates escaped after a prison was breached in the storm , alan duncan , britain s minister for europe and the americas , said on tuesday .
it was not clear if the prisoners had been captured .
macron was due to travel on tuesday to st. martin , an island france shares with the netherlands that suffered some of the worst devastation from irma .
most of the 10 people killed by irma lived on french territories there .
st. martin will be reborn , i promise , macron told reporters in pointe-a-pitre , on the french island of guadeloupe .
i will shake up all the rules and procedures so the job is done as quickly as possible .
it will be done quickly , it will be done well , and it will be done better .
macron said 50 million euros will be made available as soon as possible , and 2,000 security forces have been deployed , including the army , roughly double the original contingent .
the french government has said it would take at least three months for water distribution to normalize .
the electricity supply has also been badly hit , authorities said .
british foreign secretary boris johnson traveled on tuesday to the caribbean to visit british territories devastated by irma .
among the hardest hit islands were the british virgin islands , anguilla , plus antigua and barbuda .
he is very keen to see for himself the devastation , to reassure governors who have done a magnificent job under quite the most incredible pressure , duncan said .
four people died on anguilla , up from one reported previously , duncan said , while the death toll on the british virgin islands rose by one to five .
speaking on cnn , stacey plaskett , delegate to the u.s. house of representatives for the u.s. virgin islands , said there was no real looting occurring , but rather desperate people scrambling for scarce supplies .
our airport , the terminal looks as if grenades have been inside there and bombed the places out , she said .
this is not anything that we could ve been prepared for .