orlando , fla. ( reuters ) - after fleeing homes in hurricane irma s path several days ago , florida residents lee tinkler and mercedes lopez on tuesday faced far different prospects as they departed from the orlando hotels where they sought refuge .
tinkler , a retiree from jupiter , florida , said she was about to end the best experience of my life after waiting out the storm at a high-end convention hotel with her two daughters , their two babies and seven cats .
but at a nearby days inn , lopez s spirits were low as she shared a bucket of fried chicken with four families from the florida keys bunking together in two cramped rooms .
they were returning to salvage belongings from destroyed homes .
i don t have a house , i don t have a job , said lopez , 50 , who works for a gas station that was also devastated .
we go back to nothing .
they are part of a complicated return home after the largest evacuation in u.s. history which saw 6.5 million people flee the storm in florida .
after surviving what began as one of the fiercest atlantic storms in a century , many are returning with conflicting emotions .
the relief of going home is at times overwhelmed by the logistics of the trip and then putting their pre-storm lives back together .
on social media , travelers traded advice on how to avoid the chaotic scenes many experienced on the way out : long lines for gasoline and traffic so bad that people slept in their cars .
hoping to avoid such congestion , cathy bobal , a 59-year-old retiree from coconut creek , florida , decided on tuesday to spend a fifth night in orlando before leaving at 3 a.m. as she arranged her check-out from the rosen center , which reduced rates and waived pet and parking fees for evacuees , others were checking in .
it s round two , she said .
people are coming in because they don t have power .
tinkler , 73 , left with plans to return the next time a hurricane menaced her home .
i want to live in this world forever , she said , envisioning disaster reunions with the other guests .
we had a party .
across town , the group from marathon , florida , was ending five nights at days inn not knowing whether authorities would even allow them back into their homes .
it s a total disaster .
our house was destroyed .
i ve seen the pictures , said heidi hernandez , 23 , a school teacher .
we re going down there to salvage what we can and then come back up .