only 38 states to go .
obama is going to do more damage to the fabric of america in his final 7 months in office than any other president in history the ink was barely dry on president obama s guidance regarding gender-neutral bathrooms the administration told u.s. public schools on friday to let transgender students use bathrooms and locker rooms according to gender identity when opposing voices started shouting.and at least 7 of those voices in 6 states so far belonged to high-ranking state officials , beginning with north carolina , where hb2 brought the controversy to the forefront : north carolina governor pat mccrory ( r ) says the u.s. justice department is displaying overreach by warning legal action and withholding federal funds unless hb2 which limits bathroom/locker room use to the gender on an individual s birth certificate is scrapped.texas governor greg abbott ( r ) has declared that he will be working closely with north carolina s governor in opposing the federal guideline.i announced today that texas is fighting this .
obama ca n't rewrite the civil rights act .
he 's not a king .
# tcot https : //t.co/vdgfqpzxjr greg abbott ( @ gregabbott_tx ) may 13 , 2016texas lieutenant governor dan patrick ( r ) has stated that texas does not want any dirty money tied to policies that amount to extortion : texas lt. gov .
@ danpatrick on obama administration guidance on transgender bathrooms : `` we will not be blackmailed '' https : //t.co/28tfsicoo8 cnn newsroom ( @ cnnnewsroom ) may 13 , 2016arkansas governor asa hutchinson ( r ) advised schools in his state to ignore the guidance : as gov. , i recommend that school districts disregard @ potus 's guidance on gender identification in schools .
> > https : //t.co/mfxgtocbml gov .
asa hutchinson ( @ asahutchinson ) may 13 , 2016alabama attorney general luther strange ( r ) says the issue should be decided by parents , teachers , and principals not by federal bureaucrats.alabama ag luther strange vows to fight 'absurd ' obama order on transgender school bathrooms https : //t.co/vncucz6jsz al.com ( @ aldotcom ) may 13 , 2016kentucky governor matt bevin ( r ) released a statement saying that the federal government had no authority to interfere in local school districts bathroom policies.our statement regarding obama 's proposed bathroom rules for public schools : https : //t.co/50zg6pqxoy matt bevin ( @ mattbevin ) may 13 , 2016missouri lieutenant governor peter kinder ( r ) released a statement saying that obama was abusing his power , and that america needs guidance and prayer.via : independent journalupdate : six more states have joined in protest against obama s unlawful transgender bathroom decree , they are : west virginia , arizona , kansas , nebraska , utah , and maine .
the number of states who will fight back will certainly increase , as the public becomes more and more active , contacting their legislators and governors , demanding they stand up to king obama .