cairo ( reuters ) - six egyptian men arrested for promoting sexual deviancy and debauchery on social media will be subjected to anal examinations ahead of their oct. 1 trial , amnesty international said on saturday .
their arrest is part of a wider crackdown against homosexuality that started last week when a group of people were seen raising a rainbow flag at a concert , a rare public show of support for lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender rights in the conservative muslim country .
at least 11 people have since been arrested , amnesty said , and one man has been sentenced to six years in jail after local media launched a highly critical campaign against those who raised the rainbow flag at a mashrou leila concert , a popular lebanese alternative rock band whose lead singer is openly gay .
amnesty said the forensic medical authority was due to subject the six men to anal examinations to determine whether they have had homosexual sex .
judicial sources said any defendant accused of debauchery or sexual deviancy , a euphemism for homosexuality in egypt , is subjected to a medical examination based on an order from the public prosecutor .
allegations of torturing or insulting those medically examined are lies not worth responding to .
the examinations are carried out by a forensic doctor who swore to respect his profession and its ethics , one judicial source said .
amnesty said such examinations violate the prohibition of torture and other ill-treatment under international law .
the fact that egypt s public prosecutor is prioritizing hunting down people based on their perceived sexual orientation is utterly deplorable .
these men should be released immediately and unconditionally not put on trial , said najia bounaim , north africa campaigns director at amnesty international .
forced anal examinations are abhorrent and amount to torture .
the egyptian authorities have an appalling track record of using invasive physical tests which amount to torture against detainees in their custody .
all plans to carry out such tests on these men must be stopped immediately .
egypt s muslim religious establishment is voicing its support for the government s moves against homosexuals .
al azhar will stand against calls for sexual perversion the same way it has stood against extremist groups , a preacher at the 1,000-year-old seat of sunni muslim learning said in his friday prayers sermon .
although homosexuality is not specifically outlawed in egypt , it is a conservative society and discrimination is rife .
gay men are frequently arrested and typically charged with debauchery , immorality or blasphemy .
the largest crackdown on homosexuals took place in 2001 , when police raided a floating disco called the queen boat .
fifty-two men were tried in the case .