phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen on wednesday renewed his criticism of the united states , a week after a leading opposition figure fled the country over fears of a widening crackdown on government critics ahead of next year s election .
hun sen , who has ruled cambodia for more than 30 years and shows no sign of wanting to relinquish power , has forced the closure of several english-language media and jailed government critics , including opposition leader kem sokha .
bombs recently discovered at nine sites in southeastern svay rieng province had been dropped by the united states during the vietnam war , hun sen said in a speech to workers at garment factories that export most of their output to the u.s .
these bombs dropped on cambodia belong to the united states , hun sen said in his latest comments in a growing row over his accusations that american agents conspired with kem sokha to overthrow the government .
hun sen accused the united states of double standards , saying it was critical of his handling of kem sokha s case but had shown no respect for human rights in cambodia when it dropped the bombs .
cambodia ranks among the world s nations most littered with unexploded ordnance , says the mines advisory group , which helps find and destroy unexploded devices that kill and injure an average of two cambodians each week .
the u.s. embassy in phnom penh did not immediately reply to a reuters request for comment on the wednesday remarks .
last week the government filed a lawsuit demanding the dissolution of the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , a move that would help hun sen extend his rule at the election .
other parties were ready to replace the cnrp if it was dissolved , hun sen said on wednesday , adding , if one party is dissolved , five other parties will replace it .
western countries have condemned kem sokha s arrest for treason and have questioned whether the election can be fair , following the crackdown on opposition leaders , activists and journalists .
u.s .
ambassador to cambodia william heidt last month rejected government accusations of u.s. interference and urged the release of kem sokha , who faces 30 years in jail if convicted .
half of cambodia s opposition mps have fled , including outspoken deputy leader mu sochua , who left last week .
hun sen , a former khmer rouge commander who defected from the genocidal group and helped drive it from power in 1979 , is allied to china , and beijing says it supports the cambodian government s efforts to maintain national security .