sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - laura russo is just the kind of voter the republicans need , but the party ’ s proposed tax overhaul , which includes limits on the deductions for mortgage interest , state taxes and property taxes , is pushing her away .
“ i would be dramatically affected , ” she said .
an airline pilot and single mother of two , she says that like many in her affluent loudoun county , virginia , neighborhood she stretched to buy her home .
she fears it will become harder to sell that house or pay her other tax bills if president donald trump signs the plan into law .
russo , 52 , said she had voted for the republican in every presidential race since 1992 until last year when she picked hillary clinton .
she still voted for barbara comstock , the republican who represents her district in congress .
“ i will not do that again , ” she said .
“ the tax bill is the straw that broke the camel ’ s back. ” russo is one of thousands of homeowners in republican-leaning areas who could be hit by the elimination or reduction of tax breaks for homeowners , a reuters analysis of federal mortgage and tax data shows , potentially opening those districts to a democratic challenge in the november 2018 mid-term elections .
the plans are expected to affect mainly the democratic-leaning “ blue states ” such as california , new jersey and new york where homes are expensive , mortgages are huge and state and local taxes tend to be high .
but while these blue states will be hardest hit , county level data also shows there is a significant number of republican enclaves in districts expected to be hotly contested in next year 's polls that will feel the pain .
republican leaning pockets in blue or swing states , such as orange county , california , or loudoun county , virginia , tend to have high property values – and thus the higher mortgages .
many of these areas also tend to have higher state and local income taxes .
larry sabato , director of the non-partisan center for politics at the university of virginia , estimates that there are 16 counties where 2018 races will be toss-ups between republican incumbents and democratic challengers .
reuters data shows that almost half of those counties have an above-average share of new mortgages worth more than $ 500,000 , which is a proposed cap for tax deductions .
the results are similar for districts selected as 50-50 ones by the cook political report , a non-partisan newsletter that analyzes u.s. elections .
among those on cook ’ s list is a district in harris county in the deep-red state of texas .
even though the state has no income tax , thousands of residents of the district , which includes houston , deduct taxes owed in other states because of work or business done there , and property taxes - the nation ’ s sixth-highest .
democrats need 24 more seats to win lower house majority from the republicans , who now control the white house and both houses of congress .
nancy pelosi , the house minority leader , said in a fundraising note democrats were rushing out “ rapid-response ads ” targeting swing voters to capitalize on the concerns , while kevin brady , republican chairman of the house ways and means committee , said on cnbc on tuesday his party ’ s leadership was working on ways to mollify republicans in blue states .
that concern is felt on the ground too .
will estrada , chairman of the republican party in loudoun county , said he firmly believed the tax plan would deliver savings to most people .
but he said that if democrats are right and many middle class voters face higher bills , “ the gop is going to be toast in 2018. ” the bill passed by the u.s. house of representatives on nov. 16 let homeowners who take out new mortgages deduct only the interest paid on the first $ 500,000 of a mortgage .
it also ends deductions for state and local income taxes , and caps deductions for property taxes at $ 10,000 .
the senate ’ s plan , passed on saturday , would keep the mortgage interest deduction as is , on any mortgage up to $ 1 million , but agrees with the house on state , local and property taxes .
the two houses of congress are now reconciling the two versions .
the reuters data analysis shows that 37 percent of the total mortgages issued in orange county in 2016 were above $ 500,000 and 26 percent in loudon county .
both include districts represented by republicans and have some of the highest rates of expensive mortgages in the country .
comstock , who retained her virginia seat by 3 percentage points , voted for the house bill , but later asked for changes on deductions , saying through a spokesman that she sought “ the best possible tax package for all of her constituents. ” in orange county , republican representative darrel issa voted against the house version , in part , because of how it will affect homeowners .
neither california republican dana rohrabacher , who also voted against the bill , nor issa would comment on a possible backlash from voters .
home buyers in expensive areas count on the mortgage interest deduction to make their payments manageable , said lawrence yun , chief economist for the national association of realtors , which opposes any changes to the deductions .
yun says his analysis suggests curbing the mortgage interest deduction would lead to as much as an 8 percent drop in housing values nationwide , and cutting property tax deductions could lead to a further drop of up to 3 percent because it would make buying and selling homes more costly .
“ not just in high cost states like illinois and california , but relatively speaking in places like wisconsin , michigan , pennsylvania , which were critical in swaying the presidential election , ” he said .
other economists think the impact may be smaller .
as refinancing of mortgages becomes less popular and consumers begin paying debt down faster , the market would rebalance , said richard green , director of the lusk center for real estate at the university of southern california , who forecasts a 5 percent decline in home values .
california ’ s placer county northeast of sacramento , where the median home sells for more than $ 440,000 , remains a republican enclave .
but local republicans have noticed that each year fewer residents vote republican and their web page bears the slogan , “ keep placer red. ” to do that , the party will have to keep the loyalty of republicans like rudy coscia , a 36-year-old plastic surgeon who just took out a $ 900,000 mortgage to buy a four-bedroom house in granite bay for $ 1.1 million .
coscia is counting on mortgage interest and property tax deductions as he is also making payments on $ 200,000 worth of medical school loans and $ 400,000 he borrowed to get his practice started .
“ they ’ re hurting their base , ” he said .
“ you ’ d think they ’ d be trying not to hurt the people who voted for them . ”