santiago ( reuters ) - chile s presidential hopefuls wrapped up campaigning on thursday in a race that has pitted billionaire sebastian pinera s promise for change against center-left candidate alejandro guillier s defense of a recent raft of progressive reforms .
with their six rivals trailing far behind , pinera and guillier are widely expected to place first and second , respectively , in sunday s election , allowing them to move on to an eventual dec. 17 run-off .
pinera , a 67-year-old former president , has portrayed himself as the best bet for reviving growth that has slowed in recent years in the world s no.1 copper producer .
he has vowed to cut the corporate tax rate and scale back outgoing president michelle bachelet s tax , labor and education reforms that guillier has vowed to deepen .
bachelet can not run for office again because of term limits .
chileans face an important decision .
they re going to have to choose between change or continuity , pinera told journalists on thursday on the last day for campaigning before the election .
guillier , a bearded former journalist-turned-senator , has tapped concerns that pinera would mark a setback for gains made in bachelet s government for students , women and workers - from lowered university fees to laws that have empowered unions .
this is an election to define the two chiles , guillier said .
support for education , health care and rights , or a return to the market .
neither candidate marks a sharp departure from the historically moderate leaders that have governed chile since the country s transition to democracy from dictatorship in 1990 .
but if pinera wins as expected , this year s election would mark another rightward shift in south america following the rise of conservative leaders in peru , argentina and brazil .
pinera s and guillier s rivals passed out leaflets and chatted up voters in a final bid to shore up support , or at least help their parties win seats in the next congress .
analyst group tresquintos said leftist candidate beatriz sanchez , a distant third in opinion polls , has zero chance of catching up to guillier .
the probability of pinera securing at least 50 percent of votes needed to avoid a runoff election was only slightly better at 0.001 percent , it added in an email .
still , riding high with more than double guillier s support in recent polls , pinera urged chileans to make it short and vote for him on sunday to give him an outright win .