so much winning !
were going to be winning so much , you re going to be sick of winning !
-candidate donald j. trumppresident donald trump hailed the opening thursday of a new coal mine as proof deregulation is helping bring jobs to the industry , even though plans for the mine s opening were made well before trump s election.corsa coal corp. will supply coal used in making steel and is expected to generate up to 100 full-time jobs .
the company said it decided in august to open the acosta mine 60 miles south of pittsburgh after a steel industry boom drove up prices for metallurgical coal.under a tent perched hundreds of feet above a freshly dug coal pit , about 200 miners , business leaders , and politicians celebrated amid the surge of enthusiasm for the industry .
mining headgear lay atop red , white , and blue table cloths labeled make coal great again .
democratic gov .
tom wolf said the mine was part of an effort to bring back jobs and industry to the state .
pennsylvania awarded a $ 3 million grant for the project .
we have not always capitalized on our standing as one of the world s leaders in these resources , but we re changing that , wolf said.trump has made reversing the decades-long decline in coal mining the central tenet of his environmental policy , blaming federal regulations aimed at curbing planet-warming carbon emissions for job losses in the industry .
trump and environmental protection agency administrator scott pruitt have targeted laws that protected waterways from coal waste and required states to slash carbon emissions from power plants .
about a dozen protesters chanted in opposition to the mine at the opening.trump noted the impending opening of the mine last week during his speech announcing the nation s withdrawal from the paris climate accord .
he said then he had hoped to attend the event ; he participated via recorded video message , taking partial credit for the opening .
one by one , we re eliminating the regulations that threaten your jobs , and that s one of the big reasons you re opening today : less regulation , trump said .
we have withdrawn the united states from the horrendous paris climate accord , something that would have put our country back decades and decades , we would have never allowed ourselves to be great again .
trump noted the impending opening of the mine last week during his speech announcing the nation s withdrawal from the paris climate accord .
he said then he had hoped to attend the event ; he participated via recorded video message , taking partial credit for the opening .
one by one , we re eliminating the regulations that threaten your jobs , and that s one of the big reasons you re opening today : less regulation , trump said .
we have withdrawn the united states from the horrendous paris climate accord , something that would have put our country back decades and decades , we would have never allowed ourselves to be great again .
for entire story : mcall