congresswoman gabbard also criticizes hillary s strategy .
is it possible we re hearing a democrat who s actually making sense ?
hmmm .this is gon na leave a mark last month , us congresswoman tulsi gabbard went on cnn and laid bare washington s syria strategy.in a remarkably candid interview with wolf blitzer , gabbard calls washington s effort to oust assad counterproductive and illegal before taking it a step further and accusing the cia of arming the very same terrorists who the white house insists are sworn enemies .
in short , gabbard all but tells the american public that the government is lying to them and may end up inadvertently starting world war iii .
for those who missed it , here s the clip : https : //youtu.be/ihkher6ceaathat was before paris.well , in the wake of the attacks , gabbard has apparently had just about enough of washington vacillating in the fight against terror just so the us can ensure that isis continues to destabilize assad and now , with bi-partisan support , the brazen hawaii democrat has introduced legislation to end the illegal war to overthrow assad.gabbard , who fought in iraq twice has partnered with republican adam scott on the bill .
here s ap : in an unusual alliance , a house democrat and republican have teamed up to urge the obama administration to stop trying to overthrow syrian president bashar assad and focus all its efforts on destroying islamic state militants.reps .
tulsi gabbard , a democrat , and austin scott , a republican , introduced legislation on friday to end what they called an illegal war to overthrow assad , the leader of syria accused of killing tens of thousands of syrian citizens in a more than four-year-old civil war entangled in a battle against is extremists , also known as isis .
the u.s. is waging two wars in syria , gabbard said .
the first is the war against isis and other islamic extremists , which congress authorized after the terrorist attack on 9/11 .
the second war is the illegal war to overthrow the syrian government of assad .
scott said , working to remove assad at this stage is counter-productive to what i believe our primary mission should be .
since 2013 , the cia has trained an estimated 10,000 fighters , although the number still fighting with so-called moderate forces is unclear .
cia-backed rebels in syria , who had begun to put serious pressure on assad s forces , are now under russian bombardment with little prospect of rescue by their american patrons , u.s. officials say.for years , the cia effort had foundered so much so that over the summer , some in congress proposed cutting its budget .
some cia-supported rebels had been captured ; others had defected to extremist groups.gabbard complained that congress has never authorized the cia effort , though covert programs do not require congressional approval , and the program has been briefed to the intelligence committees as required by law , according to congressional aides who are not authorized to be quoted discussing the matter.gabbard contends the effort to overthrow assad is counter-productive because it is helping is topple the syrian leader and take control of all of syria .
if is were able to seize the syrian military s weaponry , infrastructure and hardware , the group would become even more dangerous than it is now and exacerbate the refugee crisis .
and make no mistake , tulsi s understanding of washington s absurd mid-east policy goes far beyond syria .
that is , gabbard fully grasps the big picture as well .
here s what she has to say about the idea that the us should everywhere and always attempt to overthrow regimes when human rights groups claim there s evidence of oppression : people said the very same thing about saddam ( hussein ) , the very same thing about ( moammar ) gadhafi , the results of those two failed efforts of regime change and the following nation-building have been absolute , not only have they been failures , but they ve actually worked to strengthen our enemy .
somebody get langley on the phone , this woman must be stopped.here s gabbard speaking to cnn this week about assad : so there s hope for the us public after all.perhaps if the clueless masses won t listen to lunatic fringe blogs or sergei lavrov , they ll listen to a us congresswoman who served two tours of duty in iraq and who is now telling americans that the white house , the pentagon , and most especially the cia are together engaged in an illegal effort to overthrow the government of a sovereign country and in the process are arming the very same extremists that are attacking civilians in places like paris.good luck tulsi , and thanks for proving that there s at least one person inside that beltway that isn t either dishonest or naive.via : zero hedgefrom gabbard here are 10 reasons the u.s. must end its war to overthrow the syrian government of assad : because if we succeed in overthrowing the syrian government of assad , it will open the door for isis , al-qaeda , and other islamic extremists to take over all of syria .
there will be genocide and suffering on a scale beyond our imagination .
these islamic extremists will take over all the weaponry , infrastructure , and military hardware of the syrian army and be more dangerous than ever before .
we should not be allying ourselves with these islamic extremists by helping them achieve their goal because it is against the security interests of the united states and all of civilization .
because the money and weapons the cia is providing to overthrow the syrian government of assad are going directly or indirectly into the hands of the islamic extremist groups , including al-qaeda affiliates , al-nusra , ahrar al-sham , and others who are the actual enemies of the united states .
these groups make up close to 90 percent of the so-called opposition forces , and are the most dominant fighters on the ground .
because our efforts to overthrow assad has increased and will continue to increase the strength of isis and other islamic extremists , thus making them a bigger regional and global threat .
because this war has exacerbated the chaos and carnage in syria and , along with the terror inflicted by isis and other islamic extremist groups fighting to take over syria , continues to increase the number of syrians forced to flee their country .
because we should learn from our past mistakes in iraq and libya that u.s. wars to overthrow secular dictators ( saddam hussein and muammar gaddafi ) cause even more chaos and human suffering and open the door for islamic extremists to take over in those countries .
because the u.s. has no credible government or government leader ready to bring order , security , and freedom to the people of syria .
because even the best case scenario that the u.s. successfully overthrows the syrian government of assad would obligate the united states to spend trillions of dollars and the lives of american service members in the futile effort to create a new syria .
this is what we have been trying to do in iraq for twelve years , and we still have not succeeded .
the situation in syria will be much more difficult than in iraq .
because our war against the syrian government of assad is interfering with our being one-pointedly focused on the war to defeat isis , al-qaeda , and the other islamic extremists who are our actual enemy .
because our war to overthrow the assad government puts us in direct conflict with russia and increases the likelihood of war between the united states and russia and the possibility of another world war .