ankara ( reuters ) - the united states is iran s number one enemy and tehran will never succumb to washington s pressure over a multinational nuclear deal , iran s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei said in a televised speech on thursday .
u.s. president donald trump broke ranks with other major powers last month by refusing to formally certify iran s compliance with the nuclear deal .
under that deal , most sanctions on iran were lifted in exchange for tehran curbing its nuclear work .
the american president s foolish remarks against our people show the depth of america s hostility towards the entire iranian nation , iran s top authority khamenei told a group of students .
america is the number one enemy of our nation .
since the deal was reached in 2015 , khamenei has continued to denounce the united states publicly , suggesting that antagonism between the two countries since the 1979 islamic revolution in tehran would not abate because of the accord .
iran and the united states severed diplomatic ties shortly after the revolution , when hardline students took 52 americans hostage for 444 days .
iran will mark the anniversary of the american embassy seizure on saturday .
trump has called the nuclear agreement , which was reached under his predecessor barack obama , the worst deal ever negotiated and has adopted a harsh approach to iran over its nuclear and ballistic missile programs .
washington has imposed new sanctions on iran over its missile activity , calling on tehran not to develop missiles capable of delivering nuclear bombs .
iran says it has no such plans and its missile program is solely for defense purposes .
the deal s other signatories , britain , france , germany , russia and china , and the european union say washington can not unilaterally cancel an international accord enshrined by a u.n. resolution .
iranian officials have repeatedly said that tehran would stick to the nuclear accord as long as the other signatories respected it .
but it has warned about the consequences if the deal falls apart .
we will never accept their bullying over the nuclear deal ... americans are using all the wickedness to damage the result of the nuclear talks , khamenei said to chants of death to america by students .
any retreat by iran will make america more blatant and impudent ... resistance is the only option .
trump also accuses iran of supporting terrorism in the middle east .
iran rejects that and in turn blames the growth of militant groups such as islamic state on the policies of the united states and its regional allies .
shi ite-dominated iran and its regional arch-rival , u.s.-backed sunni saudi arabia , are involved in proxy wars across the region , backing opposite sides in syria , yemen , iraq and lebanon .