yangon/shah porir dwip island , bangladesh ( reuters ) - myanmar on sunday rebuffed a ceasefire declared by muslim rohingya insurgents to enable the delivery of aid to thousands of displaced people in the violence-racked state of rakhine , declaring simply that it did not negotiate with terrorists .
attacks by militants on police posts and an army base on aug. 25 prompted a military counter-offensive that triggered an exodus of rohingya to bangladesh , adding to the hundreds of thousands already there from previous spasms of conflict .
according to the latest estimate by u.n. workers in the cox s bazar region of southern bangladesh , about 294,000 - many of them sick or wounded - have arrived in just 15 days , putting huge strain on humanitarian agencies operations .
thousands of rohingya remaining in the north-western state of rakhine have been left without shelter or food , and many are still trying to cross mountains , dense bush and rice fields to reach bangladesh .
the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) insurgent group declared a month-long unilateral ceasefire , starting on sunday , so that aid could reach these people .
the impact of arsa s move is unclear , but it does not appear to have been able to put up significant resistance against the military force unleashed in rakhine state , where thousands of homes have been burned down and dozens of villages destroyed .
arsa s declaration drew no formal response from the military or the government of buddhist-majority myanmar .
however , the spokesman for myanmar s leader , aung san suu kyi , said on twitter : we have no policy to negotiate with terrorists .
myanmar says its security forces are carrying out clearance operations to defend against arsa , which the government has declared a terrorist organisation .
human rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and rakhine buddhist vigilantes have mounted a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the rohingya , whose population is estimated at around 1.1 million .
about a dozen muslim villages were burned down on friday and saturday in the ethnically mixed rathedaung region of rakhine , two sources monitoring the situation said .
slowly , one after another , villages are being burnt down - i believe that rohingyas are already wiped out completely from rathedaung , said one of the sources , chris lewa of the arakan project , a rohingya monitoring group .
it was unclear who torched the villages , and independent journalists are not allowed into the area .
in cox s bazar , reuters journalists saw waves of rohingya arriving on sunday , and crowds of desperate people - mostly women and children - queuing for handouts of food and clothes .
more than 300 people arrived on small boats and fishing trawlers on shah porir dwip island , a short distance from the mouth of the naf river that separates the two countries and flows out into the bay of bengal .
many collapsed on the beach from motion sickness and dehydration .
three rohingya were killed by landmines on saturday as they tried to cross from myanmar , a bangladeshi border guard said , and amnesty international said there were two landmine incidents on sunday , including a blast that blew off a man s leg .
all indications point to the myanmar security forces deliberately targeting locations that rohingya refugees use as crossing points , tirana hassan , amnesty international s crisis response director , said in a statement .
this is a cruel and callous way of adding to the misery of people fleeing a systematic campaign of persecution , she said .
a myanmar military source told reuters last week that landmines had been laid along the border in the 1990s to prevent trespassing and the military had since tried to remove them .
but none had been planted recently .
dipayan bhattacharyya , the world food programme s spokesman in bangladesh , said the latest estimate of new arrivals was 294,000 and there were discussions underway to revise up the prediction made last week that it would reach 300,000 .
the government of bangladesh is planning for an influx of up to 400,000 , additional superintendent of police for cox s bazar afruzul haque tutul told reuters .
the united nations has appealed for aid funding of $ 77 million to cope with the emergency in southern bangladesh .
the wave of hungry and traumatised refugees is showing no signs of stopping , the u.n. resident coordinator in bangladesh robert watkins said in a statement late on saturday .
it is vital that aid agencies working in cox s bazar have the resources they need to provide emergency assistance to incredibly vulnerable people who have been forced to flee their homes and have arrived in bangladesh with nothing , he said .
the international crisis group said in a report that the strife in rakhine is causing more than a humanitarian crisis .
it is also driving up the risks that the country s five-year-old transition from military rule will stumble , that rohingya communities will be radicalised , and that regional stability will be weakened , it said .
aung san suu kyi has come under international pressure to halt the violence .
critics complain that suu kyi , who won a nobel peace prize for championing democracy , has failed to speak out for a minority that has long complained of persecution .