donald trump made two claims about mark cuban that prove just how delusional and narcissistic he is.apparently , trump woke up this morning and saw the dallas mavericks owner on television and decided that deriding him on twitter was more important than doing his current job.trump claimed that cuban was a big-time backer of his and that cuban isn t smart enough to ever be president like him.i know mark cuban well .
he backed me big-time but i wasn t interested in taking all of his calls.he s not smart enough to run for president !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 12 , 2017first of all , mark cuban backed hillary clinton during the 2016 election and repeatedly slammed trump s business acumen and personality .
last time i checked , big-time backers don t support the other candidate and go on television to destroy you every week.second , mark cuban is a more successful businessman than donald trump is and his vocabulary is higher than the fifth grade vocabulary trump possesses.as usual , twitter users were quick to humiliate trump for his childish behavior.wtf @ realdonaldtrump ?
this is seriously the type of thing you re talking about ?
not the fact that north korea just tested another missile ?
david g. mcafee ( @ davidgmcafee ) february 12 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump what the fuck are you even talking about , man ?
cody johnston ( @ drmistercody ) february 12 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump as president , your direct communication with the american people heavily features you waking up and yelling at the tv .
cody johnston ( @ drmistercody ) february 12 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump not smart enough ?
dude you have like an 18 word vocabulary .
mikel jollett ( @ mikel_jollett ) february 12 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump you re so smart you had to ask about our deal with russia while you were on the phone with russia .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) february 12 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump this election disproved any intelligence requirement .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) february 12 , 2017what s funny here is trump , who is only wealthy because of his dad , is bashing @ mcuban who is entirely self-made .
sad !
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) february 12 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump but pic.twitter.com/szpjj8qryb erick fernandez ( @ erickfernandez ) february 12 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump but .
pic.twitter.com/8c23ve4cw3 erick fernandez ( @ erickfernandez ) february 12 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump so you have time to tweet about mark cuban but still have yet to comment on the quebec mosque shooting ?
al x young ( @ alexyoung ) february 12 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump would you please put your tiny little hands back in your pockets and give your android to the nearest respectable grownup ?
shaf patel ( @ shafpatel ) february 12 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump i know it s hard for you , but a president doesn t obsess over which billionaire tv personality insulted him that day .
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) february 12 , 2017donald trump seriously needs to re-examine his priorities .
because acting like a petulant child is not making our country look good.featured image via youtube