a united nations employee was busted for robbing four manhattan banks all during his lunch hour , authorities said.only 3 weeks ago , the anti-trump un worker warned on facebook that some dubious characters are betraying us and that he would reveal names later .
( see post below ) .abdullahi shuaibu , 53 , was picked up by cops monday and hit with two counts of robbery and two counts of attempted robbery for the crimes committed during his two-month spree.abdullah shuaibu s linkedin account states that he lives in new york and is currently employed by the un as a communications specialist .a photo from shuaibu s facebook page shows him standing with un general assembly president morgens lykketoft .
abdullah shuaibu s facebook page includes several anti-trump posts like this one where he hilariously refers to the new yorker as one of america s most prestigious magazines lol ! so a guy who works for the un and holds up banks on his lunch hours is concerned about a private conversation trump had with another guy on a bus ?
shuaibu claims racism is the trump card in this post : all four banks are within walking distance of un headquarters on first ave. near e. 42nd st. , where the nigeria native works as a journalist for an african news agency , police said.authorities were led to the thief after a retired police officer who works at the facility recognized shuaibu from a surveillance image previously released by the nypd.in the first incident , shuaibu walked into a santander bank on madison ave. near e. 43rd st. on feb. 27 and told the teller he had a gun .
the bank employee complied and handed shuaibu an unknown sum of money.he hit two more banks during the month of march , first striking out at a bank of america on third ave. near e. 47th st. on the 13th .
he was successful in robbing a santander bank on third ave. and e. 63rd st. on the 27th.police arrested him later in the day when he returned to the un .
read more : nypon march 28th , warned his facebook friends that some dubious characters are betraying us !
names will be mentioned later hmmm very interesting timing !