london ( reuters ) - controversies over fake news have damaged trust in media in the united states and elsewhere , but the impact is far worse for social media and online-only outlets than it is for traditional print and tv outlets , a survey has found .
the research and data company kantar , in a survey of 8,000 people in the united states , brazil , britain and france , found that newspapers , magazines and tv news outlets had retained a greater measure of public trust than digital specialists had .
in the united states , mainstream media have reported on the online spread of fabricated stories aimed at helping donald trump win the presidency last year .
meanwhile , trump has accused the mainstream media itself of producing fake news .
overall , 58 percent of those surveyed said that as a result of becoming aware of fake news they had less trust in social media news stories about politics or elections .
for mainstream media , the figure was 24 percent .
the efforts to brand mainstream news media as fake news have largely failed , kantar said .
the survey drew a link between depth of coverage and trust levels .
the findings showed that a much higher proportion of people rated magazines , tv news channels , radio and newspapers highly for in-depth commentary and analysis , than did so for social media news .
news audiences are far from dumbing down .
they demand serious content and the provision of this type of content will help deepen the nature of consumer relationships with news organizations offline and online , the survey said .
kantar said its analysis showed usage of the expression fake news had surged in mainstream news around the time of the u.s. presidential election in november 2016 , and had peaked on trump s first day in office in january this year .
however , there was a lack of consensus and clarity on the definition and origin of fake news .
asked what that expression meant , 58 percent of respondents said it referred to stories deliberately fabricated by a mainstream news organization .
forty-two percent said it described stories put out by someone pretending to be a news organization .
of the four countries surveyed , brazil had the highest proportion of people who believed fake news had influenced the outcome of elections in their country , at 69 percent .
in the united states , the figure was 47 percent .
the term fake news has been used by the u.s. president so frequently that it comes as no surprise that u.s. audiences are more aware of its impact , the survey said .
in brazil , however , although a national election has not been held since 2014 , a series of corruption scandals have likely raised news audience sensitivity to political news .