tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - honduras electoral tribunal said on sunday that a partial recount of votes from the disputed presidential election showed broadly the same result as previously , giving the lead to current president juan orlando hernandez .
in the partial recount of 4,753 ballot boxes , the conservative hernandez won 50.1 percent of the votes , against some 31.5 percent for his rival salvador nasralla from the center-left coalition opposition alliance against the dictatorship .
the tribunal did not specify exactly how many votes from the nov. 26 election were recounted .
there are some 18,000 ballot boxes overall .
including all votes , nasralla trails conservative orlando hernandez by 1.6 percentage points according to the official count , which has been questioned by the two main opposition parties and a wide swathe of the diplomatic corps .
observers from the organization of american states ( oas ) issued a series of recommendations this week to authorities including a recount of disputed ballots .
what we can say is that the results of the recount are extremely consistent with what we had originally , david matamoros , president of the supreme electoral tribunal ( tse ) said .
the election has been plagued with problems since voting stations closed , sparking concerns of deepening political instability in the poor , violent central american nation .
the tribunal declared nasralla the leader in an announcement on the morning after the vote , with just over half of the ballot boxes counted .
however , it gave no further updates for about 36 hours .
once results then started flowing again , nasralla s lead quickly started narrowing , sparking a major outcry .
since early december , the government imposed a curfew which is still in place in 5 of the country s 18 departments .
opposition parties on friday presented formal requests to annul the election .
on sunday afternoon , opposition groups were expected to take to the streets to protest the results .
the electoral tribunal has until december 26 to declare a winner .