amman ( reuters ) - syrian rebels pinned down in a strategic area where the israeli and lebanese borders meet with syria were handed an ultimatum by the syrian army and its iranian-backed militia allies to either surrender or face certain military defeat , rebels said on tuesday .
the syrian army backed by local militias financed and equipped by iran alongside druze fighters from the area have been escalating a fierce assault against sunni rebels in an enclave in the foothills of mount hermon , close to both the israeli and lebanese borders .
they were given 72 hours to surrender with fighters to go to idlib or those who want to stay have to reach a settlement , said ibrahim al-jebawi , a free syrian army ( fsa ) official familiar with the situation on the ground .
another rebel official who asked not to be named said they were told either to surrender or a military solution .
the rebels have now been left encircled in beit jin , their main stronghold after losing strategic hills and farms around it this week after over two months of near daily shelling and aerial strikes .
iran-backed lebanon s hezbollah s media unit said insurgents had agreed to negotiate surrender terms and said negotiations had already begun over their evacuation in the next few days to rebel-held idlib .
the syrian army has used similar tactics of pushing opponents to rebel areas further from the syrian capital after a twin tactic of siege and months of strikes on residential areas .
there were also more than 8,000 civilians who have been trapped in the remaining enclaves with their plight worsening , according to rebel spokesman sohaib alraheel .
israel , which syria accuses of helping the rebels , is alarmed at the growing iranian military influence in the golan heights and has stepped up its strikes against pro-iranian targets inside syria .
israel has been lobbying both big powers to deny iran , lebanon s hezbollah and other shi ite militias any permanent bases in syria , and to keep them away from the golan , as they gain ground while helping damascus beat back sunni-led rebels .
early this month there was an israeli strike on a base near kiswah , south of damascus , that was widely believed to be an iranian military compound , a western intelligence source said .
hezbollah s bastion in southern lebanon is only a few kms from the rebel enclave , and securing a supply line from its stronghold into syria s quneitra province was a major strategic gain , rebels and defense analysts say .
now hezbollah will have a bigger foothold on the syrian side of the golan and it is desperate to link this area with southern lebanon , al-jebawi added .
israel had warned hezbollah against trying to open a front in the golan heights and was believed to be behind the killing a prominent commander in an air strike in 2015 whom the group later admitted had overseen a local hezbollah presence in the area .
this is an effort by iran and its proxy hezbollah to expand the lines of engagement with israel .
the question is will israel allow that ?
said fayez al dweiri , a retired jordanian general who follows syria closely .