donald trump s head is going to explode when he sees this.back in september as the 2016 campaign raged on , trump claimed that undocumented immigrants cost the united states hundreds of billions of dollars and complained that only 5 percent to 10 percent of them pay taxes .
illegal immigration , each year , costs us between $ 200 billion and $ 300 billion , trump told cnn host erin burnett .
i don t know if anybody gives you those numbers .
probably not .
there s very little , percentage-wise , trump said on the number of immigrants who pay taxes .
there s very little , probably 5 percent , 10 percent .
wrong.as it turns out , trump claimed in august that the figure was around $ 113 billion .
but politifact rated his claim false after doing some research .
trump s information comes from an unreliable conservative think tank that fiercely opposes immigration .
reports from other organizations , even conservative ones , put the figure drastically lower.it also turns out that around more than half of the undocumented immigrants in this country pay more taxes than donald trump does .
after all , just a single year of trump s tax returns showed that he probably didn t pay a dime in federal income taxes for over a decade .
undocumented immigrants on the other hand , have contributed $ 12 billion to social security alone as well as other federal , local and state taxes , while not being able to receive any federal , state , or local benefits.that may be a huge reason why trump refuses to release his tax returns .
because he knows that they would expose him as the hypocrite , liar , and tax cheat that he is.now one undocumented immigrant is bravely daring trump to release his taxes after she proved his claims wrong with a single photograph.belen sisa is a resident of arizona who was brought to america by her undocumented immigrant parents when she was six years old .
sisa decided to send a message to donald trump and all of those anti-immigrant conservatives who believe the myths about undocumented immigrants that right-wing groups constantly spew.so she posted a picture of herself proudly holding up her tax returns on facebook and included the following message : i , an undocumented immigrant , just filed my taxes and paid $ 300 to the state of arizona .
i can not receive financial aid from the state or federal government for school , i can not benefit from unemployment , a reduced healthcare plan , or a retirement fund .
i think i m a pretty good citizen .
oh and there are millions just like me who pay into a system they will never receive anything from .
wan na tell me again how i should be deported , contribute nothing and only leech off this country while the 1 % wealthiest people in this country steal from you everyday ?
how about you show me yours donald j. trump ?
# heretostay your move , donald.featured image : andrew harrer-pool/getty images