( reuters ) - hillary clinton agreed on thursday to some of the terms laid down by an opponent , senator bernie sanders , in his call to increase the number of public debates as they vie to become the democratic candidate in november ’ s u.s. presidential election .
clinton ’ s two main democratic challengers , sanders and former maryland governor martin o ’ malley , have long called for more debates .
they have complained that the relatively skimpy schedule of only six encounters was designed by the party to protect clinton ’ s position at the top of opinion polls .
but the call for more debates intensified this week after a hastily arranged debate next thursday in new hampshire was announced , organized by a news channel and a state newspaper .
both clinton and o ’ malley said they would attend if all the candidates agreed , despite risking the ire of the democratic national committee , which has forbidden candidates from taking part in unsanctioned encounters .
on wednesday evening , the sanders campaign called for three more debates , in march , april and may .
the campaign also stipulated that none be held on a friday , saturday or holiday weekend , when the number of potential viewers typically dips .
if clinton would commit to this , his campaign said , then sanders would also agree to join clinton and o ’ malley at the feb. 4 debate convened by msnbc and the new hampshire union leader newspaper , just days before the state becomes the second in the country to vote for republican and democratic presidential candidates .
“ senator sanders is happy to have more debates , but we are not going to schedule them on an ad hoc basis at the whim of the clinton campaign , ” sanders ’ campaign manager , jeff weaver , said in a statement .
weaver said clinton had only agreed to next week ’ s debate because sanders has been gaining on her in polls .
the response from the clinton camp on thursday acceded to some of these conditions , saying it would discuss adding debates only in april and may .
“ we have always been willing to add additional debates beyond the six that had been scheduled and look forward to starting discussions on scheduling debates in april and may , ” clinton spokesman brian fallon said in an email to reporters .
spokesmen for clinton and sanders did not respond to emails asking if the two campaigns were now in agreement .
it remains unclear if any additional debates will come to pass .
the democratic national committee has said it will not sanction the debate organized for next week , though it seems unlikely it will ban all three candidates from the remaining two sanctioned debates .
( reporting by jonathan allen ; editing by jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .