beijing ( reuters ) - china will not export its political system , president xi jinping told a forum for foreign political groups on friday , as the ruling communist party seeks to boost its global image and take a more assertive international role .
china s state media has this year touted the annual inter-party meeting as a high-level dialogue with xi speaking at it for the first time .
xi told the forum s opening session china was struggling for the cause of human progress and it would bring benefits to every country in the world , according to state television .
we will not import other countries models , and will not export the china model , xi said .
we will provide more opportunities for the world through our development , he said .
the official xinhua news agency has said that representatives from hundreds of political parties in more than 120 countries have registered for the four-day meeting , though it has not provided a full list .
myanmar s leader aung san suu kyi , cambodian prime minister hun sen and tony parker , treasurer of the u.s. republican national committee , were among attendees who spoke at the forum s opening .
at a chinese communist party ( cpp ) congress in october , where xi cemented his power , he laid out a confident vision for a proud and prosperous china in a new era under his leadership .
at the time , he also called on the communist party , as the world s biggest political party with 89 million members , to have a big image .
china has expanded the reach of its foreign policy and military under xi , whose diplomatic thought has been credited domestically with transcending 300 years of western international relations theory and serving as a marker of china s growing soft power .
but concern abroad about china using its influence to sway foreign business , academic , and political institutions have grown in tandem .
some foreign business has been alarmed by the increased push for influence by communist party units in their operations and joint ventures , and international publishers have sparked academic freedom controversies by pulling content that offends beijing .
jude blanchette , an expert on china s communist party at the conference board s china center for economics and business in beijing , said xi and the party had been re-articulating the idea of a china solution for governments around the world .
in isolation , the meeting will be forgotten by next week , but it s a small piece in a much larger strategy to rebrand the ccp from a reactive organization on the wrong side of history into a political force at the center of the global conversation , blanchette said .