( reuters ) - recreational marijuana is on track to be legalized in canada by july 2018 , making canada the first group of seven country to allow the drug nationwide and the second in the world after uruguay .
while the federal legislation proposed by prime minister justin trudeau s liberal government will regulate cannabis production , the details of who can sell it and who can buy it will be largely left up to the country s provinces .
the following are details of some key factors of how legal marijuana is shaping up in canada .
so far , five of canada s 10 provinces have come forward with frameworks for retail marijuana sale .
in ontario , quebec and new brunswick , cannabis sales will be run by provincial government-owned entities .
the western provinces of manitoba and alberta have said they will license private retailers .
the federal government set the minimum legal age for buying marijuana at 18 , but the provinces can raise that if they wish .
in ontario , canada s most populous province , the legal age will be 19 .
the federal government s proposed law also permits adults to grow up to four marijuana plants at home , although quebec announced thursday it will not allow residents of the province to grow their own marijuana .
federal and provincial governments are tightening the rules around impaired driving and bringing in a roadside saliva test to check for drug impairment .
the federal government is setting up systems to track all cannabis from seed to sale , to license non-medical producers and to test marijuana for potency and quality control .
the federal government has already issued more than 70 licenses for producing medical marijuana , which has been legal in canada since 2001 .
mjic inc s equal-weighted canadian marijuana index , which tracks stocks of major legal cannabis companies , is up 28 percent this year .
the horizons marijuana life sciences etf , the first exchange traded fund in north america to focus on the legal market , is up more than 20 percent since it launched in april .
canopy growth corp , aurora cannabis and aphria , three of canada s four biggest marijuana producers by market cap , have gained 89 percent , 137 percent and 71 percent respectively this year .
medreleaf corp , the fourth , which listed in june , is up 107 percent since its debut .
marijuana stocks listed have surged since oct. 30 , when u.s. alcohol company constellation brands bought a nearly 10 percent stake in canopy for about c $ 245 million ( $ 192.05 million ) .
a battle is brewing between the federal government and some provinces over how tax revenue is divided between the two levels of government .
the federal government said last week it wants an excise tax on all cannabis products of c $ 1 ( 78 cents ) per gram ( 0.04 ounce ) , or 10 percent of the retail price , whichever is higher .
the government proposed splitting the tax 50-50 with the provinces , drawing criticism from ontario which says it will face higher costs related to enforcement and establishing a system for sales .
( $ 1 = 1.2757 canadian dollars )