moscow ( reuters ) - russia designated radio free europe/radio liberty ( rfe/rl ) and voice of america ( voa ) as foreign agents on tuesday , a move aimed at complicating their work in retaliation for what moscow says is unacceptable u.s. pressure on russian media .
russia s broadside is likely to further sour battered u.s.-russia relations and is part of the fallout from allegations that the kremlin meddled in the u.s. presidential election last year in donald trump s favor , something moscow denies .
u.s. intelligence officials accused the kremlin of using russian media it finances to influence u.s. voters , and russian state broadcaster rt last month reluctantly complied with a u.s. request to register a u.s.-based affiliate as a foreign agent under the foreign agent registration act .
the kremlin called the move an attack on free speech and says the new media law in russia , which western critics have called a disproportionate response , is retaliation .
moscow s response was widely trailed .
russian lawmakers rushed through the necessary legislation last month and president vladimir putin signed off on it on nov. 25 .
russia s justice ministry said in a statement on its website on tuesday it had now formally designated u.s. government-sponsored voa and rfe/rl , along with seven separate russian or local-language news outlets run by rfe/rl , as fulfilling the role of foreign agents .
rfe/rl president thomas kent said in a video statement his organization was committed to continuing its journalistic work in russia , but was expecting even more limitations on the work of our company .
so far the full nature of these limitations is unknown , said kent .
we will study carefully all communications from the ministry and other russian official organizations .
voa director amanda bennett told reuters her organization also thought it was unclear what new curbs it would face .
the new designation subjects affected u.s.-backed news outlets to the same requirements that are applied to foreign-funded non-governmental organizations under a 2012 law .
under that law , foreign agents must include in any information they publish or broadcast to russian audiences a mention of their foreign agent designation .
they also must apply for inclusion in a government register , submit regular reports on their sources of funding , on their objectives , on how they spend their money , and who their managers are .
they can be subject to spot checks by the authorities to make sure they comply with the rules , according to the 2012 law , which has forced some ngos to close .
one of the seven outlets on the justice ministry list provides news on crimea , which russia annexed from ukraine in 2014 , one on siberia , and one on the predominantly muslim north caucasus region .
another covers provincial russia , one is an online tv station , another covers the mostly muslim region of tatarstan , and the other is a news portal that fact-checks the statements of russian officials .