cairo ( reuters ) - saudi arabia and other arab foreign ministers criticized iran and its lebanese shi ite ally hezbollah at an emergency meeting in cairo on sunday , calling for a united front to counter iranian interference .
regional tensions have risen in recent weeks between sunni monarchy saudi arabia and shi ite islamist iran over lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri s surprise resignation , and an escalation in yemen s conflict .
hariri , a saudi ally , resigned on nov. 4 from riyadh , accusing iran and hezbollah of spreading strife .
but lebanese president michel aoun and other politicians accused saudi arabia of holding hariri hostage and said he had been coerced into resigning .
saudi arabia and hariri both deny that .
hezbollah , both a military force involved in syria s war and a political movement , is part of a lebanese government made up of rival factions , and an ally of aoun .
saudi arabia also accuses hezbollah of a role in the launch of a missile towards riyadh from yemen this month .
iran denies accusations that it supplies houthi forces there .
the kingdom will not stand by and will not hesitate to defend its security , saudi arabia s foreign minister adel jubeir told the assembly .
we must stand together .
the emergency arab foreign ministers meeting was convened at the request of saudi arabia with support from the uae , bahrain , and kuwait to discuss means of confronting iranian intervention .
in a declaration after the meeting , the arab league accused hezbollah of supporting terrorism and extremist groups in arab countries with advanced weapons and ballistic missiles .
it said arab nations would provide details to the u.n. security council of tehran s violations for arming militias in yemen .
lebanon s arab league representative objected to the declaration accusing hezbollah of terrorism and said it is part of lebanon s government , the hezbollah-affiliated al-manar television channel reported .
united arab emirates minister of state for foreign affairs anwar gargash said on twitter later that the declaration was a clear message about joint arab action against iran .
yemen s civil war pits the internationally recognized government , backed by saudi arabia and its allies , against the houthis and forces loyal to former president ali abdullah saleh .
iranian threats have gone beyond all limits and pushed the region into a dangerous abyss , arab league secretary general ahmed aboul gheit said .
unfortunately countries like the saudi regime are pursuing divisions and creating differences , and because of this they don t see any results other than divisions , iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif told iranian state media on sunday on the sidelines of a meeting in antalya .
egypt s foreign minister received a call from u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on sunday when they also discussed regional tensions over lebanon , the foreign ministry said in a statement .
after french intervention , hariri flew to france and met president emmanuel macron in paris on saturday .
he will arrive in cairo for a visit on tuesday , his office said .
speaking in paris , hariri said he would clarify his position when he returns to beirut in the coming days .
he said he would take part in lebanese independence day celebrations , scheduled for wednesday .