21st century wire says president trump is drifting further into neoconservative land , and very soon there will be no turning back.although you wouldn t know it from the us media blackout the us has quietly deployed upwards of 4,000 combat troops in syria in total violation of both us and international law.upon closer examination , however , trump s foreign policy is fast resembling israel s foreign policy.this is exactly what candidate trump promised he wouldn t do doug bandow the national interestcandidate donald trump offered a sharp break from his predecessors .
he was particularly critical of neoconservatives , who seemed to back war at every turn.indeed , he promised not to include in his administration those who have perfect resumes but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war .
and he s generally kept that commitment , for instance rejecting as deputy secretary of state elliot abrams , who said trump was unfit to be president.substantively candidate trump appeared to offer not so much a philosophy as an inclination .
practical if not exactly realist , he cared more for consequences than his three immediate predecessors , who had treated wars as moral crusades in somalia , the balkans , afghanistan , iraq , libya and syria .
in contrast , trump promised : unlike other candidates for the presidency , war and aggression will not be my first instinct .
yet so far the trump administration is shaping up as a disappointment for those who hoped for a break from the liberal interventionist/neoconservative synthesis.the first problem is staffing .
in washington people are policy .
the president can speak and tweet , but he needs others to turn ideas into reality and implement his directives .
it doesn t appear that he has any foreign policy realists around him , or anyone with a restrained view of america s international responsibilities.rex tillerson , james mattis and h. r. mcmaster are all serious and talented , and none are neocons .
but all seem inclined toward traditional foreign policy approaches and committed to moderating their boss s unconventional thoughts .
most of the names mentioned for deputy secretary of state have been reliably hawkish , or some combination of hawk and centrist abrams , john bolton , the rewired jon huntsman continue this story at the national interestread more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv