buenos aires ( reuters ) - major parties running in sunday s mid-term congressional election in argentina suspended their campaigns on wednesday after a body , thought to be that a young protester who went missing more than two months ago , was found in a river .
a government spokeswoman said president mauricio macri s cambiemos , or let s change , coalition would halt campaigning for the rest of the day after investigators on tuesday discovered the body in the chubut river in the country s southern patagonia region .
the remains were found near the site where indigenous rights activist santiago maldonado was last seen at a tribal rights protest on aug. 1 .
former president and now senate candidate cristina fernandez also suspended campaigning , along with other major figures vying for congress , their campaigns said .
we have halted all events until there is word from either the judge in charge of the case or santiago s family , a spokesman for fernandez s unidad ciudadana , or citizens unity party told reuters .
in the final week of campaigning the maldonado case has overshadowed the congressional election , which is expected to give macri s coalition additional seats but not a majority in either chamber .
some opposition and rights groups believe state security forces took maldonado , a 28-year-old craftsman , and allege macri s government covered up information on his whereabouts .
macri s government has said that there is no evidence that shows security forces detained maldonado .
potential cases of abuse by security forces are sensitive in argentina , where the 1976-1983 military dictatorship secretly detained , tortured and killed people in clandestine prisons .
rights groups say up to 30,000 people disappeared .
the markets will watch sunday s election to see if business-friendly cambiemos emerges as the main vote-getter in the bellwether province of buenos aires .
investors say they prefer macri s orthodox economic policies to those of fernandez , a free-spending populist who led the country from 2008 to 2016 .
while it has dominated headlines , political analysts have said they do not expect the case to change votes .