activist judges are killing america !
the judge in hawaii who just blocked president trump s executive order is wrong on his decision but who cares about the law when you re an activist derrick kahala watson graduated from harvard with obama and is an obama-appointed judge .
what s even crazier is that obama was just spotted in hawaiithe local news had a short comment on obama s surprise visit : coming off a string of high-profile meetings , former president barack obama made an unannounced return to hawaii monday.just three months removed from his last official holiday visit as president , obama was spotted dining at buzz s lanikai monday night.president trump vows that he ll fight a hawaii judge who blocked his latest travel ban saying he will take it to the supreme court pic.twitter.com/by3n86m37g fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) march 16 , 2017the court disturbingly ruled that these two provisions pausing refugees and foreign national entry from 6 nations target muslims and violate the establishment clause.the court created a constitutional crisis where none existed .
the court s establishment clause analysis is fundamentally flawed and ignores the separation of powers .
worst of all , it puts our national security at risk.as the supreme court has rightly held , the united states constitution is not a suicide pact .
as i explained earlier this week when we filed our amicus brief with the court in this case , the order in no way violates the establishment clause : first , the executive order ( eo ) does not even address religion , whatsoever .
second , the order has a secular purpose : our national security .
as we explained : the eo , on its face , serves secular purposes , and no amount of rehashing of miscellaneous campaign trail commentary can change that .
.
.
.
[ t ] he mere suggestion of a possible religious or anti-religious motive , mined from past comments of a political candidate or his supporters , and intermixed with various secular purposes , is not enough to doom government action ( along with all subsequent attempts to address the same subject matter ) .
[ a ] ll that lemon requires is that government action have a secular purpose , not that its purpose be exclusively secular , and a policy is invalid under this test only if it was motivated wholly by religious considerations .
lynch v. donnelly , 465 u.s. 668 , 680-81 & n.6 ( 1984 ) ( emphasis added ) .
the order singles out no religion for favor or disfavor .
to conclude otherwise is unreasonable , and absurd .
the six countries whose nationals are impacted by the pause were countries identified by president obama and congress as countries of particular concern .
policy disagreements , hurt feelings , and political agendas are not enough to support an establishment clause claim .
the court s flawed order will invariably be appealed , and we will be ready to file crucial amicus briefs once again in federal appeals court.read more : aclj