seoul ( reuters ) - over four decades , choi gee-sung , the fourth son of a poor civil servant , worked his way to the top of south korea s samsung group , one of the world s leading business empires , inspiring a legion of salaried workers .
on friday , a seoul court sentenced choi to four years in jail for his part in a corruption scandal that toppled the country s president , and handed his billionaire boss , jay y. lee , a five-year jail sentence .
song wu-cheol , lead defense attorney for choi , lee and others , said they would appeal the convictions .
choi s downfall has fueled a sense of disillusionment at a time when the country s biggest conglomerate looks to its army of loyal samsung men to navigate a potential leadership vacuum .
choi was lee s mentor and headed up samsung s corporate strategy office - dubbed the control tower - for more than four years before it was disbanded earlier this year after it came under fire for its role in the graft scandal .
the office , which oversaw the samsung group , orchestrating the big decisions on asset sales or arranging support for weakened group affiliates , was closed in february , and choi stepped down .
the samsung scandal is the latest in a series to mire south korea s so-called chaebols - the powerful , family-run conglomerates that dominate asia s fourth-largest economy - which are criticized for their often cozy ties to politicians .
the involvement of choi - who rose as high in a conglomerate as possible for someone from outside the powerful chaebol families - has shocked many samsung employees who admired his business acumen and work ethic that helped samsung become a global technology powerhouse .
choi has been portrayed as a poster child of a successful businessman ...
i am dejected and angered by this scandal , said one samsung employee who declined to be identified .
a samsung company official said : it s hard to do a job like that without loyalty .
if the previous generation s frame of thinking was loyalty , that s got to change going forward .
known for his tenacity , attention to detail , and focused drive , choi took credit for helping samsung electronics , the group s crown jewel , overtake nokia and apple inc in mobiles and sony corp in television manufacturing .
it is also the world s leading chipmaker .
i played a part in today s samsung standing tall as the no .
1 in semiconductors .
we surpassed ( mobile firm ) nokia when everyone thought it couldn t be done , choi recalled during his trial testimony , as lee and other charged samsung executives sat alongside .
the day media reported samsung surpassed intel as the no .
1 in semiconductors was the 40th anniversary of my first day at samsung .
it was also the day when the court hearing continued until 2 a.m. , he said , referring to late july when samsung reported record earnings on strong chip sales .
i was overwhelmed with feelings of regret , reflection and sadness .
born into a poor family during the korean war in 1951 , choi joined samsung in 1977 to put food on the table after studying at the prestigious seoul national university .
having worked in all samsung s main businesses - from chips and mobile to display screens - choi was among the few to rise to the top without an engineering background .
he became ceo of samsung electronics in 2010 .
some people like me think that the higher up you go , the harder you have to work and the more unjust things you have to deal with , said a 33-year-old samsung employee , who declined to be identified .
i think he ( choi ) may have agonized , though it was his choice to take the job .
as head of the control tower , choi said he accepted greater responsibility than lee , and the decisions he made over matters related to the scandal were inevitable to protect samsung from political pressure .
the chaebols dominate the local economy , providing millions of jobs and defining many people s identity in south korean society .
salaried workers are expected to serve them with long hours and unquestionable loyalty .
that culture puts top executives under pressure to take the blame for their boss , experts say .
it s like japan s samurai , who sacrifice their lives for the sake of their masters , said chung sun-sup , head of chaebul.com , a corporate analysis firm .
it s very regrettable , but that s the reality of what s expected from professional managers .
it s a path choi felt he had little option but to take .
if you were to hold samsung responsible , please blame me .
i am aging and lost judgment ... others just trusted me and followed my judgment , he told the court during the trial .