( reuters ) - thailand s junta needs to show greater flexibility in talks with malay muslim insurgents to bring on board the main rebel group that is still fighting and end decades of bloodshed , a senior group member told reuters .
in a rare interview , pak fakih of the secretive barisan revolusi nasional ( brn ) said the army s current peace talks with other factions were doomed and the government must drop pre-conditions , show greater respect to the separatists and adopt a more open-minded approach .
it is a mistake to think that we do not want to negotiate .
we do , but not under the current circumstances , said fakih , 67 , who said he had been fighting since he was 15 and lost a son in the conflict seven years ago .
more than 6,500 people have been killed since 2004 alone in the insurgency in the south of mostly buddhist thailand .
a soldier and a policeman were killed on thursday and 26 people wounded by roadside bombs which followed a new session of talks in malaysia between the army and other insurgent factions .
the brn never claims or rejects any specific attack and fakih said that policy would continue .
it is widely seen as the group with the greatest control over combatants in the three southern provinces .
our attacks are confined to the deep south and are about sending a signal to the thai government .
we never want to cause widespread harm , said fakih , who declined to be photographed .
the government say they are fighting ghosts in the south so we want to show them that we exist and we mean business .
the thai government made no immediate comment .
in april , prime minister prayuth chan-ocha rejected a brn offer of talks mediated by a neutral third party and said they required no international mediation or observation .
the government also sets recognition of thailand s constitution as a pre-condition - a dealbreaker for the brn .
until they were annexed in 1909 , thailand s three southernmost provinces of pattani , yala and narathiwat were part of an independent malay muslim sultanate .
insurgent groups have long emphasized that their struggle is about identity and not a religious war .
we and the people are like fish and water : inseparable , fakih said .
the brn had been part of talks before the army seized power in 2014 , but stayed out when negotiations restarted under the army in 2015 .
talks have taken place between the government and mara patani , an umbrella group claiming to represent all major rebel factions .
but fakih disputed its claim to include brn members too , saying there were only former members .
he said that the thai government s policy toward the south was also complicated by different factions in the security forces jockeying for power .
they are fighting for control over the budget in administering the region rather than actually listening to what we have to say , he said .