washington ( reuters ) - republicans ’ refusal to consider any supreme court nominee by president barack obama this year could jeopardize the party ’ s control of the senate , as democrats use the standoff to challenge vulnerable opponents in an election year .
congressional leaders met with obama at the white house on tuesday about replacing recently deceased justice antonin scalia , and senate republican leader mitch mcconnell ’ s stance opposing any nomination by obama .
neither side gave ground .
the showdown over the issue is already being used by democrats to target republican senators in states including ohio , wisconsin , illinois , new hampshire and pennsylvania , even though elections are not until november .
the democrats have two goals .
one is opening a new line of attack on republicans in states that tend to vote democratic in presidential election years .
the other is chipping away at mcconnell ’ s position , which may be hard to maintain over time .
the democrats ’ strategy will not work , said republicans , who maintain the supreme court showdown actually helps them in some races and that other issues are much more important .
voters worry more about economic and national security issues than the supreme court , tom ridge , former republican governor of pennsylvania , said in an interview .
the court fight “ may have an impact , but at best , i think it ’ s marginal. ” the issue has a long way to play out .
obama has yet to name a nominee .
also , the supreme court has not yet deadlocked 4-4 since scalia ’ s death on a high-profile issue , so there has been no stalemate to test the public ’ s reaction .
but by haranguing vulnerable incumbents , such as illinois republican mark kirk , democrats hope to convince swing voters that stone-walling on any obama nominee is a dereliction of duty .
faced with this attack , kirk last week broke ranks with mcconnell and said hearings should be held on a nominee .
his possible general election opponent , democratic representative tammy duckworth , told reuters she has hammered away at kirk on the senate confirmation process .
“ he would not have said anything if i had not pushed so hard , ” she said .
in ohio and pennsylvania , three-quarters of those polled said the senate should at least see whom obama nominates before deciding whether or not to confirm the nominee , according to public policy polling surveys conducted feb. 19-21 .
former pennsylvania democratic governor ed rendell told reuters the supreme court battle will be trouble for republicans .
“ this will bring into dramatic focus , with crystal clarity , the importance of the presidential election concerning the supreme court , ” rendell said .
liberal activist group moveon.org last week sponsored a 30-second cable television spot urging senate republicans to “ do your job ” and consider an obama appointee .
at the same time , conservative group judicial crisis network launched a 30-second video thanking senator patrick toomey , who supports mcconnell ’ s position , for “ letting the people decide ” on replacing scalia .
republicans must defend 24 senate seats in november .
democrats have only 10 to defend .
senator rob portman , a first-term republican who faces a tough re-election in ohio , has also sided with mcconnell .
republican senator ron johnson of wisconsin , who was swept into office in 2010 by the tea party movement , is running 11 points behind democrat russ feingold , the former senator he beat six years ago , a marquette law school poll last week showed .
to win , analysts said , johnson must garner support from a different , presidential-year electorate that is likely to be younger , racially more diverse and with a potentially greater interest in moving forward with a supreme court nominee .
so far the court debate has helped johnson solidify support among republicans , two-thirds of whom support mcconnell ’ s stand .