in 2008 barack obama promised to shut down the coal industry : hillary also promised to shut down the coal industry as part of her campaign platform .
when politicians like barack obama and hillary put special interests and lobbyists who are using phony climate change to collect billions in federal green subsidies over working americans , you know these people are no longer public servants but instead , self-servants .
watch : there was a time , not so long ago , when this city on the ohio river employed up to 15,000 people in the steel mills whose rusting warehouses still line the streets .
now the figure is closer to 800.first , it was costs associated with the repeated regulations imposed by the environmental protection agency .
then , after 1994 and the passing of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) it was cheaper competition from places such as mexico .
in the end , there was no way weirton could compete , and an industry that has fed and clothed the city for generations essentially died .
her husband introduced nafta , said a former steel worker , sitting at the the bar of the columbia club , located at one was once gate no 1 of the weirton steel corporation s main factory .
he had worked at the plant for 34 years .
if anyone in this in this state votes for her , they re crazy .
it is communities such as this that donald trump has been targeting hard with his pitch about the evils of nafta and the need to bring jobs well-paid manufacturing jobs in particular back to america .
polls collected by realclearpolitics suggest he leads hillary clinton in west virginia by between 18 to 27 points.while his policy is not hard on detail , mr trump has vowed repeatedly to bring jobs back from places such as mexico and china.but in places such as weirton , down to fewer than 20,000 people from a peak of 33,000 it is hard not to feel that while some parts of the country may have seen the benefits of global trade , this hardscrabble community , with its fast-food joints and strip bars , has been passed by.ed sutton , a city government worker who said he would be voting for mr trump , said that nothing had replaced the steel jobs .
they talk about creating all these jobs .
but they re just retail jobs that pay minimum wage , or just above , he said.ms clinton , meanwhile , said this spring , in a comment she came to quickly regret , she was going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business .
independenttrump s appeal is vast and broad for many blue-collar workers and former workers across america .
listen to these former steel workers in pa , living in a democrat stronghold explain how they never imagined they would be voting for a republican :