new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton leads republican rival donald trump by 12 percentage points among likely voters , her strongest showing this month , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday .
the aug. 18-22 poll showed that 45 percent of voters supported clinton , while 33 percent backed trump ahead of the nov. 8 election .
clinton , the former u.s. secretary of state , has led trump , a new york businessman , throughout most of the 2016 campaign .
but her latest lead represents a stronger level of support than polls indicated over the past few weeks .
earlier in august , clinton ’ s lead over trump ranged from 3 to 9 percentage points in the poll .
the poll also found that about 22 percent of likely voters would not pick either candidate .
that lack of support is high compared with how people responded to the poll during the 2012 presidential election between democratic president barack obama and republican mitt romney .
“ those who are wavering right now are just as likely to be thinking about supporting a third-party candidate instead , and not between clinton and trump , ” said tom smith , who directs the center for the study of politics and society at the university of chicago .
during the latest polling , clinton faced renewed scrutiny about her handling of classified emails while serving as secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 , and trump ’ s campaign chief , paul manafort , resigned after a reshuffle of the candidate ’ s campaign leadership team .
clinton held a smaller lead in a separate four-way poll that included libertarian nominee gary johnson and jill stein of the green party .
among likely voters , 41 percent supported clinton , while 33 percent backed trump .
johnson was backed by 7 percent and stein by 2 percent .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
both presidential polls included 1,115 respondents and had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .