( reuters ) - michael bloomberg , the billionaire former mayor of new york city , said he is considering running for u.s. president in 2016 , the financial times reported on monday .
the 73-year-old founder of the eponymous financial information group was critical of the quality of debate in the presidential contest and said he was “ looking at all the options ” when asked whether he was considering a run , the newspaper said .
“ i find the level of discourse and discussion distressingly banal and an outrage and an insult to the voters , ” bloomberg told the financial times in an interview , adding that the u.s. public deserved “ a lot better. ” bloomberg has told aides to draw up plans for an independent campaign for the u.s. presidency , a source familiar with the situation told reuters on jan. 23 , confirming a report in the new york times .
he would be willing to spend at least $ 1 billion of his own money on a campaign for the november 2016 election , according to the source , who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the former mayor ’ s thinking .
bloomberg has given himself an early march deadline for entering the race , the source said , after commissioning a poll in december to see how he would fare against donald trump and hillary clinton , the republican and democratic front-runners .
no third-party candidate has ever won a u.s. presidential election .
but bloomberg , who has close wall street ties and liberal social views , sees an opening for his candidacy if republicans nominate trump or texas senator ted cruz and the democrats nominate vermont senator bernie sanders , the source said .
a recent reuters/ipsos poll showed a third-party presidential run by bloomberg would be a long shot but could help real estate mogul donald trump if he lands the republican nomination .
in a matchup between trump and clinton , adding bloomberg ’ s name to the ballot would trim clinton ’ s lead over trump to six percentage points from 10 , according to the poll conducted from jan. 23 to jan. 27 .
in a matchup pitting trump versus sanders , adding bloomberg would erode sanders ’ lead over trump to seven points from 12 , the poll results showed .
in all matchups , bloomberg himself would land just 10 percent or less of the vote in november .
the 73-year-old financial information industry billionaire , who earned a reputation as a social liberal with strong wall street ties during his time as new york city mayor , has considered a white house run for years .
( additional reporting by dustin volz and steve holland in washington and chris kahn in new york ; reporting by eric walsh in washington ; editing by andrew hay ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .