since sweden became the # 1 destination for diversity and multiculturalism , they ve become the rape capital of the world yes , the world !
rape has skyrocketed as refugee resettlement has vastly increased .
the swedish police are warning the swedish women not to go out after dark .
it s just too dangerous !
can you believe that ?
officers in picturesque stersund issued the astonishing warning after gangs of foreign men went on the rampage , attempting to rape women in the street and even groping a group of 10-year-old girls at a bus stop.the shocking announcement will heighten concerns around the effects of mass migration on sweden , which has been struggling to integrate more then 150,000 predominantly muslim migrants.women in the tiny lakeside town of stersund , in central sweden , have been terrorized by sex attacks with six such incidents being recorded in the last two weeks .
in all of the cases the male attackers , often acting in gangs , were described as being of foreign appearance .the attacks come as swedish authorities have begun sending increasing numbers of migrants to a refugee reception centre in the small town because all accommodation further south has already been filled.speaking at an extraordinary press conference yesterday police chiefs issued a stunning warning to women , telling them stersund is now so unsafe they should not go out after dark alone .
regional police chief stephen jerand said the attacks were unusual because none of the perpetrators appeared to be drunk , adding that officers have witnessed a worrying trend in the town.he said : the cases of the sexual harassment and attempted rapes have involved groups of up to three people .
what stands out is also that none of these perpetrators have been under the influence .
now the police are going out and warning women against travelling alone in the city .
we have seen a worrying trend .
this is serious , we care about the protection of women and that is why we are going out and talking about this .
the most recent assault took place in the early hours of sunday morning , when three young men attempted to rape a woman in the town centre .
read more : express