dubai ( reuters ) - saudi arabia on saturday suspended any dialogue with qatar , accusing it of distorting facts , just after a report of a phone call between the leaders of both countries suggested a breakthrough in the gulf dispute .
saudi arabia s crown prince mohammed bin salman spoke by the telephone with qatar s emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani on friday when they discussed the gulf dispute , state media from both countries reported earlier .
saudi arabia , the uae , egypt and bahrain cut diplomatic and trade links with qatar on june 5 , suspending air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
the nations say doha supports regional foe iran and islamists , charges qatar s leaders deny .
kuwait has been trying to mediate the dispute .
during the call , the emir of qatar expressed his desire to sit at the dialogue table and discuss the demands of the four countries to ensure the interests of all , saudi state news agency spa reported .
the details will be announced later after the kingdom of saudi arabia concludes an understanding with the united arab emirates , the kingdom of bahrain and the arab republic of egypt , spa said .
the phone call was the first publicly reported contact between the two leaders since the start of the crisis .
qatar s state news agency qna said the phone call was based on coordination of u.s. president donald trump who had earlier talked with sheikh tamim .
trump on thursday said he would be willing to step in and mediate the worst dispute in decades among the u.s.-allied arab states and qatar , and said he thinks a deal could come quickly .
both qatar s emir and the saudi crown prince stressed the need to resolve the crisis by sitting down to the dialogue table to ensure the unity and stability of the gcc countries , qna reported .
sheikh tamim welcomed the proposal of prince mohammed during the call to assign two envoys to resolve controversial issues in a way that does not affect the sovereignty of the states , qna said .
saudi arabia later issued a second statement citing an unnamed official at the ministry of the foreign affairs denying the qna report .
what was published on the qatar news agency is a continuation of the distortion of the qatari authority of the facts , spa reported citing the saudi official .
the kingdom of saudi arabia announces the suspension of any dialogue or communication with the authority in qatar until a clear statement is issued clarifying its position in public .