kabul/peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - representatives of afghanistan , china , pakistan and the united states will meet in oman next week to discuss reviving peace talks with afghan taliban militants , an afghan official and a pakistani foreign ministry source said on wednesday .
but it was not clear if afghan taliban representatives would join the talks .
taliban sources said they had not yet received an invitation and plan to skip monday s discussions in muscat , casting doubt on efforts to revive long-stalled negotiations .
the four-nation quadrilateral coordination group ( qgc ) , comprising afghanistan , china , pakistan and the united states , has been trying to ease the path to direct talks between the afghan government and the taliban , with little success .
the taliban , ousted in a u.s.-led military intervention in 2001 , has been gaining territory in recent years through a violent insurgency to try to topple afghanistan s western-backed government and re-establish a fundamentalist islamic regime .
amin waqad , a close aide to agfhan president ashraf ghani and a senior member of the high peace council ( hpc ) , said , hpc and government representatives will participate , and it is an important one because the taliban representatives will be there .
we will go with a clear plan .
a senior pakistani foreign ministry official confirmed the talks would take place on oct 16 .
last week , foreign minister khawaja asif told voice of america the quadrilateral arrangement will again be in operation in muscat in october .
the u.s. embassy in islamabad did not comment for the report .
talks and efforts to kick start negotiations have failed following the 2015 announcement of the death of the taliban s founder and long-time leader , mullah mohammed omar , in 2013 .
the united states wants pakistan , which it accuses of harboring afghan taliban commanders , to exert more influence on the group to bring them to the negotiating table .
pakistani officials deny sheltering taliban militants and say their influence on the group has waned .
two senior afghan taliban leaders , speaking on condition of anonymity , told reuters the group s leadership council met on tuesday and decided it would not send a delegation to muscat even if the group was invited to participate .
till that time , we were not invited , but even if we received any invitation , our senior members decided not to participate in the meeting , said one of the taliban leaders .