beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s parliament on thursday approved the first state budget in 12 years , a vital step towards reforming the fragile economy and preventing rising debt spinning out of control .
successive governments have failed to pass annual budgets due to a string of political crises since the 2005 assassination of former prime minister rafik al-hariri .
( passing the budget ) is a fundamental step on the state s path to reinstating order in the public finances , minister of finance ali hassan khalil said after the vote .
passing a budget was a priority for the government of rafik s son , saad al-hariri , which took office in january .
hariri described the 2017 budget as an historic achievement and said his government would strive to return the country to financial and political health .
a main obstacle to passing the 2017 and previous budgets has been demands from some politicians that an audit of extra-budgetary spending from previous years be carried out .
but on wednesday , parliament approved a law allowing the budget to be passed before such an audit is completed and giving the minister of finance up to a year to carry it out .
the budget passed after three days of discussion by 61 votes for and four against .
eight members of parliament abstained .
lebanon s economic growth has been battered by years of paralysis in government decision-making and six years of war in neighboring syria .
growth slowed to just over 1 percent a year from an average of 8 percent before the syrian war .
lebanon s debt has also risen strongly since the war began in 2011 .
moody s says the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio , which indicates a country s ability to pay back its debt , is the world s third highest and will reach almost 140 percent in 2018 .
economists have said a budget was vital to reforming public finances , but that more needs to be done to improve growth and investor confidence in the country : reform the heavily subsidized electricity sector , boost tax collection and upgrade crumbling infrastructure .
the government will begin work on the 2018 budget next week , hariri and khalil said .
khalil said it will include a vision to develop the country economically and socially as well as financial and reform measures to reduce the deficit and increase growth .