geneva ( reuters ) - bangladesh border guards reported more than 11,000 rohingya refugees crossing into their country from myanmar on monday , in a sudden surge , the united nations refugee agency said .
more than half a million rohingya have fled myanmar since aug. 25 after insurgent attacks on security forces triggered a violent government crackdown , but the rate had slowed to about 2,000 refugees per day last week , aid agencies say .
we re back in a situation of full alert as far as influxes are concerned .
it is a big increase to see 11,000 , adrian edwards , spokesman for the u.n. high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) , told a news briefing in geneva on tuesday .
we have had big numbers coming across by the day over the six weeks of this emergency .
so we are back up to approaching some of those peak arrivals .
clearly we have to be prepared for more arrivals , he said .
many of the refugees are reported to come from the buthidaung area in myanmar s northern rakhine state , which is 20-25 kilometers east of maungdaw .
some said they had fled torching and killings back home ; one boy was seen with a big gash across his neck , edwards said .
we don t know at the moment what is driving this , he added .
some of these people have fled their homes several days ago and in some cases two weeks ago , so they moved toward the border before coming across .
there are also indications of more recent problems .
as you may have seen from media reports which i can t verify , but there are reports about fires being seen close to the border ( and ) other problems there , edwards said .
meanwhile , a massive cholera immunization campaign began on tuesday near cox s bazar , bangladesh , aimed at protecting newly-arrived rohingya and host communities from the disease which can be deadly , the world health organization ( who ) said .
some 900,000 oral vaccine doses will be distributed , including 650,000 in an initial 10-day campaign to be followed by a second round from oct. 31 targeting 250,000 children between one and five years old , the agency said .
there is a clear and present risk of the spread of cholera among the population .
luckily , we don t have any confirmed cases of cholera so far , who spokesman christian lindmeier said .