americans watched in horror as live chopper video showed a massive group of antifa thugs chasing down a lone trump supporter like a pack of hungry wolves .
once they finally caught the trump supporter , they surrounded him and began to beat him mercilessly .
there were no police in sight.we had an exclusive conversation with a bernie sanders supporter who is also a berkeley resident , who was beaten bloody after feeling compelled to step in help and defend the free speech rights of trump supporters .
the sanders supporter was shocked to see that one of the soros supported , antifa thugs who attacked him was a woman .
although he didn t agree with everything they stood for , he still believed they had the right to free speech and that the antifa thugs , black lives matter and bamn ( by any means necessary ) had no business using violence or the threat of violence to silence them.watch how the tough woman who was wearing a mask , responded to the berkeley police officers who , according the bernie sanders supporter we talked to , had mostly moved to the perimeter of the violence and were allowing it to happen .
for anyone who has a hard time believing that women are a part of this violent group , watch this disgusting thug cry like a baby while disrespecting the berkeley police officers who arrested her .
* * * language warning * * * a member of antifa screams for her service animal .
probably should n't be out rioting if you need a service animal .
pic.twitter.com/v3wuvn08lo based monitored ( @ basedmonitored ) august 28 , 2017here s another video showing a tough female antifa thug flexing her muscles from behind a mask : https : //twitter.com/leighmartineztv/status/901897070092574721antifa thugs beat , and then poured urine on the small group of trump supporters who came out to support a trans woman in mlk park who organized a rally for peace. # antifa beat and pour urine on trump supporter at # berkeley .
pic.twitter.com/ohys6yn8l6 josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) august 27 , 2017