it s perfectly appropriate for a male rapist to make his way into a public girl s bathroom but a woman working out with her husband in a gym is not allowed to wear a tank top because the size of her breasts might offend someone ?
saying she felt degraded , an ottawa woman is pursuing a possible human rights complaint against a local health club that asked her not to wear a tank top allegedly because of the size of her breasts.but the club , movati athletic , was fighting back against jenna vecchio friday , saying that while it did not intend to embarrass her , it was she and her husband who chose to make the dispute public.vecchio said she has contacted a human rights lawyer and is considering her options after she was told by a female staff member at movati that her black , form-fitting tank top was making other gym members uncomfortable.the incident , which took place last saturday while vecchio and her husband were working out , left the woman shaken .
it was humiliating because there were other members around ( who ) stopped doing what they were doing to listen in on the conversation , vecchio told the canadian press .
i felt singled out , degraded , she added .
my chest became the focus of conversation and that s not something a woman likes to discuss openly with people .
vecchio shared her story on facebook .
it currently has over 5,200 shares.here is vecchio s post to facebook : vecchio returned to the gym two days later , where she cancelled her membership after speaking with the club manager , who promised to look into the matter and get back to her.but vecchio didn t get a response and said she only heard through the media that movati is standing by the decision.in a statement , the company said it launched an investigation after it saw vecchio s facebook post , and that it is upholding the decision to enforce its dress code .
following ms. vecchio s own social media postings on this matter , we conducted a thorough investigation which included first-hand accounts from members and other staff , and a followup meeting with jenna herself , said the statement .
upon conclusion of our interviews , we stand by the original decision that confirms that ms. vecchio was dressed inconsistently with our code of conduct .
via : national post