berlin ( reuters ) - germans will vote on sunday in a parliamentary election in which center-right chancellor angela merkel is running for a fourth term .
here is an explanation of how the voting system works : germany has a mixed-member proportional voting system under which voters cast two ballots : one directly for a candidate in his or her constituency and the second for a party .
this second vote determines the distribution of seats in parliament .
merkel s name , for instance , does not appear on the national ballot but only in her constituency in the stralsund/ruegen district .
she is running there as a direct candidate for her christian democrats ( cdu ) after winning the district seven times in a row since reunification in 1990 .
german voters sometimes split their ballots to give their preferred coalition extra support : they give their first vote to a direct candidate from one of the two main parties - the cdu and its bavarian sister party csu or the center-left social democrats ( spd ) - and the second vote to a corresponding smaller partner such as the business-friendly free democrats ( fdp ) , the left-leaning greens , the far-left die linke or the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) .
the smaller parties have little interest in the first ballot because germany s 299 constituencies are won on a first past- the-post basis , which normally favors the larger ones .
supporters of smaller parties often give their first vote to one of the two bigger parties , while some cdu/csu and spd backers give their second vote to a preferred coalition partner .
if the cdu/csu or spd wins more direct seats in a state than they would get based on their share of second votes , the bundestag creates extra overhang seats .
there are 299 seats in parliament for winners of the direct seats and another 299 seats based on parties relative strength via the second ballot .
the number of overhang seats rose in recent elections because the two main parties , cdu/csu and the spd , won all but a handful of the 299 direct seats but had been receiving smaller shares of the second ballots .
a new law compensates other parties for overhang seats , thus making it less interesting for the big parties to share support with smaller partners for second votes .
in the 2013 election , the cdu/csu won four extra overhang seats .
through the effect of balance seats , the size of parliament ballooned from 598 to 631 seats .
parties that fail to get more than 5 percent of the nationwide vote or win fewer than three seats by direct election are excluded from parliament .
the shares of the other parties are recalculated accordingly .
this effect can have major consequences for the process of coalition building .
in 2013 , the fdp and the afd came in just below the 5-percent threshold .
since their share of the vote was attributed to the others parties , merkel s conservatives were nearly able to govern alone with their unadjusted result of only 41.5 percent .
in this year s election , six parties are forecast to enter parliament , up from four now .
that would leave germany marked by a more fractured political landscape .
the next government will probably need a combined share of at least 47 percent or maybe 48 percent for a stable majority , depending on the voting share of those parties that fail to enter parliament .