new delhi/kochi , india ( reuters ) - india s supreme court started hearing a case on monday that prosecutors say shows how islamic state sympathizers are using love jihad marrying hindu women and converting them to islam to win recruits and spread their message .
over the past 28 months , the national investigation agency ( nia ) has picked up dozens of interfaith couples in the southern state of kerala to question them about their marriages .
the women - all hindus who married muslims were asked extremely personal questions during the interrogations , two police officers from the agency said : did you sleep with your husband before getting married ?
did he suggest you visit islamic shrines before marriage ?
did he blackmail you before you converted to islam ?
they were looking for cases of love jihad , a term publicized by the rashtriya swayamsevak sangh ( rss ) and other hardline hindu groups soon after they helped propel prime minister narendra modi to power in 2014 .
it refers to what these groups say is an islamist campaign to convert hindu women through seduction and marriage .
police investigations at the time found no evidence of any organised strategy , and the claim was widely ridiculed .
but since then , the nia began focusing on kerala - a state along the arabian sea with strong economic links to the middle east .
it investigated 89 cases of love jihad and found nine to be alliances planned by people linked to the islamic state , two nia sources said , requesting anonymity because the investigation is going on .
the nia will present evidence in the nine cases to the supreme court .
the agency declined to disclose its evidence .
but in two of the cases it was examining money sent from an islamic school in iraq to the women s bank accounts , and in another case a woman and her husband had shared is videos among people in their kerala village , the sources said .
opposition parties say the investigation shows the government is allowing the rss and others to use the state apparatus to further an agenda of establishing hindu dominance in india , where 13 percent of the population is muslim .
m.b rajesh , a federal lawmaker and member of the communist party of india ( marxist ) , which rules kerala , said the nia and the rss were trying to prove that marriages between hindus and muslims are forced unions .
the nia s probe is creating religious fault lines to help modi s party win ( kerala s ) state elections , but we will defeat them .
j. nandakumar , an rss leader who oversees the group s activities in the state , said the nia investigation vindicated the hindu right s campaign against religious conversions .
their first step is to convert hindu boys and girls , hypnotise them and prepare them for jihad , he said .
the rss , which founded the first iteration of modi s ruling bharatiya janata party six decades ago , believes india is fundamentally a hindu nation .
since modi s election in may 2014 , the rss has expanded its membership and influence across india and either it or its affiliates now run key ministries , such as the home ministry , which supervises the nia , and the finance ministry .
muslims who account for 172 million of india s 1.32 billion citizens - have been under increasing pressure from the hindu right .
muslims have been lynched for killing cows - considered sacred in hinduism - and some of their slaughter houses forced to shut down .
neither modi s office nor the nia would comment because the issue is before the supreme court .
one of the muslim men , whose marriage to a hindu woman was annulled by kerala s high court , has appealed the case to the supreme court .
the nia has accused the man , shefin jahan , in court of trying to recruit people for the islamic state , a charge he denies .
the 24-year-old woman , who converted to islam before marrying him and changed her name from akhila to hadiya , was placed in her father s custody by the high court after he said he feared for her well-being .
there is no criminal case against her .
india s chief justice summoned hadiya to new delhi to testify on monday on whether she had been forced to convert .
in an interim order the supreme court removed hadiya from her father s custody and said she could live in a hostel to complete her college education .
the trial will begin in january .
this is for the first time in the history of india the top court will be asking a woman the validity of her marriage and her religious conversion , said kapil sibal , a lawyer and a leader of the opposition congress party .
sibal is representing jahan .
jahan , 26 , told reuters he met hadiya through a matrimonial website for muslims while he was working in a pharmaceutical factory in oman .
he said he wanted to live with his wife , with whom he stayed for only 48 hours before her father complained to the police .
our simple love story has turned into an ugly religious and legal battle , jahan said .
the nia investigation started in 2015 after the government identified kerala , which sends tens of thousands of workers to the middle east , as a potential hotbed of islamic state recruitment .
nearly half of kerala s 33 million people practice islam and christianity .
police and the nia said at least 100 people from kerala have joined the is in syria , iraq and afghanistan .
the nia s nine love jihad cases were based on complaints lodged by the parents of the hindu girls and all were found to have links with is , the nia police sources said .
the agency dropped the investigations into the other 80 cases because no links to militants were found , the sources said .
across india , more than 270 men and 20 women have been arrested for working directly or indirectly with the is , according to data at the federal home ministry .
but kerala was the only state where the nia found a direct link between cases of love jihad and the is , the nia sources said .
the agency says it has uncovered attempts by is sympathizers to possibly send the women in love jihad marriages off to marry or stay with fighters from the militant group , the nia sources said .
two couples , who were questioned by the nia last year , told reuters police searched their homes .
i was shocked when they said maybe my husband was a jihadi , and he could be planning to send me to syria , said one woman who married a muslim information technology professional in 2015 .
police questioned her for six hours , she said , and before leaving , took pictures of her wedding album .