caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s opposition received a european union prize for human rights on wednesday and urged the world to keep a close eye on an upcoming presidential election where it aspires to end two decades of socialist rule in the opec nation .
foes of president nicolas maduro failed to dislodge him during months of street protests this year that turned violent killing more than 125 people , and have been dismayed to see him consolidate his power in recent months .
but they hope a presidential vote due in 2018 will galvanize exhausted and despondent supporters , and want foreign pressure for reforms to an election system they say is at the service of maduro s dictatorship .
in the next few months , there should be a presidential election and we ask europe and the free world to pay full attention , julio borges , head of the opposition-led national assembly , said , receiving the sakharov prize .
the regime has kidnapped democracy , and installed hunger and misery , he added during the ceremony at the eu parliament in strasbourg .
the prize , named after soviet physicist and dissident andrei sakharov , was awarded this year to venezuela s national assembly and all political prisoners , according to the citation .
venezuela s opposition won national assembly elections in 2015 , but the legislature has been sidelined by verdicts from the pro-government supreme court and the controversial election this year of a pro-maduro constituent assembly superbody .
another opposition leader antonio ledezma , who recently escaped house arrest in venezuela and fled to spain , said the eu prize ceremony was a painful moment because of the scores of opposition activists still jailed .
i can not be happy receiving this prize knowing that in the dungeons of venezuela there remain , unjustly deprived of liberty , more than 300 political prisoners , he said .
maduro , the 55-year-old successor to hugo chavez who has ruled venezuela since 2013 , denies the existence of political prisoners , saying all activists in detention are there for legitimate charges such as coup-plotting and violence .
favorite to be the socialist party s candidate for the presidential vote , maduro says he has faced down a u.s.-backed coup attempt by opponents this year .
he frequently mocks both borges and ledezma in public speeches .
the opposition has a dilemma in choosing its candidate for the 2018 race , given that its most popular figures can not run : leopoldo lopez is under house arrest , while henrique capriles is prohibited from holding office .
the european union last month imposed an arms embargo on venezuela , adding it to a list that includes north korea and syria .