tuz khurmatu , iraq ( reuters ) - on the eve of the historic referendum on independence , kurds across the region were celebrating .
young people honked their horns and shot celebratory gunfire into the air of major cities .
but not in tuz khurmatu , an iraqi town of more than 100,000 that is violently split among kurds and shi ite turkmen , who oppose monday s referendum .
i hope the referendum will be canceled , said luay , a turkman shopkeeper in tuz .
if they don t , the kurds will take over by force and there won t be any turkmen or arabs left .
the town is part of the disputed territories , ethnically mixed areas in northern iraq claimed by both the central government in baghdad and the autonomous kurdish government in the north .
each side has tried to consolidate their power over the town since the u.s.-led invasion of iraq in 2003 .
kurdish officials have insisted throughout the referendum campaign that all residents of the disputed territories including kurds , arabs , turkmen and other minorities would be allowed to vote .
however , by sunday afternoon , the ballot boxes had yet to be distributed throughout the rundown town , which local kurdish officials attributed to a lack of security forces able to help deploy them safely .
plans had been made to have polling stations in all neighborhoods , said arslan ali , a local representative of barzani s kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) , which has been pushing for the referendum .
we will make it happen , ali said .
this was unlikely , since tuz khurmatu is unmistakably split : while kurdish peshmerga forces control a kurdish half , iran-backed shi ite paramilitary groups ( pmf ) control the turkmen neighborhoods .
we will not let them approach the turkmen areas , said mohammed mahdi al-bayati , a senior leader in the badr organization , the preeminent pmf force in the area .
they want to seize the disputed territories , but we will not let them .
a decision by kurdish president massoud barzani to include these ethnically mixed areas in the plebiscite was widely interpreted as a unilateral move to consolidate kurdish control .
when islamic state militants overran about one third of iraq in 2014 , the kurds seized the moment and took over vast areas in northern iraq , left vulnerable by a fleeing iraqi army .
peshmerga fighters moved deeper into the disputed territories , including tuz khurmatu , which they defended against the militants .
but this ignited the shi ite turkmen s fears of being subjected to kurdish rule .
though pmf-led turkmen worked together to push islamic state militants out of tuz khurmatu , ultimately the fragile coalition fell apart and led to open hostilities .
the referendum will be the start of a crisis in the disputed territories , al-bayati said , at a his organization s base in tuz khurmatu , where it has been based since 2014 .
asked whether his forces would move to prevent such a crisis , al-bayati made only veiled reference to looming violence : there will be conflict for sure within 24 hours of the referendum .
walking through the turkmen neighborhood of aksu , solid-black flags flutter alongside banners with shi ite iconography , a reminder of the somber month of muharram .
the area used to house the main market , where both ethnic groups used to trade .
it is now encased in blast walls and guarded by pmf fighters .
according to turkmen residents and shopkeepers , kurdish shops and houses were burned down , forcing kurds to move out .
i used to like that it was mixed neighborhood , said luay , the turkman shopkeeper .
but then the kurds killed my brother on this street .
a five-minute drive away is the rival kurdish market , where tricolour kurdish flags were flying high .
it was established by kurds afraid of the old market .
i used to have lots of turkmen and arab friends , said shalaw , a kurdish toyshop owner .
many of the turkmen have since joined ( the pmf ) , and i m afraid to cross the city border to go and see them .
i ll be killed .
like other kurds interviewed in the market in al-jumhuriyah , shalaw lamented tuz khurmatu s split , which he blamed on the pmf s arrival .
but he said he will vote for independence on monday .
badr leader al-bayati cynically said the referendum suited his group s interests .
iraq is against the kurds , so are the turks , the iranians , the whole arab region and europe .
they are going to live in a cage .