washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. air force would ground the russian-built rd-180 engines that power its atlas 5 rockets if a u.s. government review determines that several sanctioned russian individuals have too close a relationship with the engine maker , a top u.s. general said on friday .
lieutenant general samuel greaves , who heads the air force ’ s space and missile systems center , said the pentagon was reviewing responses about the sanctions issue and related matters in time to meet a feb. 22 deadline set by senate armed services committee chairman john mccain .
mccain last week asked the air force and pentagon to explain why the u.s. government is continuing to use engines built by russia ’ s npo energomash given sanctions in place against russian deputy prime minister dmitry rogozin and other sanctioned individuals , who control the company after a big reorganization .
congress banned use of the russian rd-180 rocket engines for military use after 2019 , following russia ’ s annexation of the crimea region of ukraine in 2014 .
but u.s. lawmakers eased the ban late last year , worried that it could drive united launch alliance , a joint venture of lockheed martin corp and boeing co , out of business and leave only privately-held spacex , to lift satellites into space .
greaves said the air force would abide by u.s. law .
“ these folks are on the sanctions list , and if the department of the treasury comes back and says there ’ s a problem with that relationship , then we have to work with the congress and others to determine a way ahead , ” he said .
asked to elaborate about possible consequences , he said , “ if we ’ re not supposed to be flying the rd-180s , they ’ re grounded. ” the treasury department declined comment .
a spokeswoman for united launch alliance also had no immediate comment .
the u.s. court of federal claims had ruled on the issue in response to a lawsuit filed in april 2014 by spacex , concluding that the purchases were not in violation of u.s. sanctions .
at the time , senior u.s. officials said that control of energomash by rogozin could provide a basis for formally blocking the property and interests of the company .
mccain argues the situation has changed due to a new russian law that took effect in january , which consolidated the russian space industry under a single state corporation , roscosmos .
roscosmos is due to merge with the state-owned parent company of energomash , making energomash a direct subsidiary , he said .