feeling safer ?
one of the sitting members on the homeland security advisory council s ( hsac ) subcommittee on countering violent extremism is a 25-year-old immigrant of syrian heritage who said that the 9/11 attacks changed the world for good and has consistently disparaged america , free speech and white people on social media.laila alawa was one of just 15 people tapped to serve on the newly-formed hsac subcommittee on countering violent extremism in 2015 the same year she became an american citizen .
just last week , the subcommittee submitted a report to department of homeland security secretary jeh johnson , recommending that the dhs avoid using muslim terminology like the words sharia and jihad when discussing terrorism.alawa says she immigrated into the u.s. when she was ten years old .
her family had already left syria by the time she was born .
but i will always be syrian .
i will always be from syria .
i will always be of syria , she wrote in november 2015 , calling the country her homeland .
in 2014 , alawa commemorated the september 11 attacks by tweeting that 9/11 changed the world for good , and there s no other way to say it .
exactly a year later , she claimed that , after september 11 , being american meant you were white .
in april 2013 , she responded to a tweet from activist pamela geller who called the boston marathon bombings jihad by tweeting : go fuck yourself .
on september 21 the day after secretary of state john kerry announced that the u.s. would accept 85,000 syrian refugees in 2016 and 100,000 more in 2017 alawa mocked the salty white tears all over my newsfeed .
in the countering violent extremism report published last week , alawa and her fellow subcommittee members recommended that the department of homeland security adapt to the changing nature of violent extremism itself by devoting more attention to anarchists , sovereign citizens , white-supremacists , and others .
the report also recommended that , in order to combat violent extremism , the dhs focus on gender diversity of youth through careful attention to the range of push and pull factors that attract individuals of differing gender .
as originally reported by the daily caller , the subcommittee alawa serves on instructed the dhs to begin using american english instead of religious , legal and cultural terms like jihad , sharia , takfir or umma when discussing terrorism in order to avoid offending muslims.two months before secretary johnson created the subcommittee on combatting violent extremism , alawa tweeted : the us has never been a utopia unless you were a straight white male that owned land .
straight up period go home shut up .
via : daily caller