dubai ( reuters ) - a day before they killed yemen s former president , gunmen from the iran-aligned houthi militia group overran one of ali abdullah saleh s fortified compounds in sanaa .
ransacking the villa , they snapped photos of liquor flasks and vodka bottles and posted them online .
this is how the traitor ( saleh ) and his family lived during a time of war , siege and cholera , hamid rizq , a senior houthi official , said on his official twitter account .
the houthi gunmen acted fast and mercilessly to punish the 75-year-old saleh for having appeared to switch sides in yemen s three-year civil war - a proxy battle for influence between regional powers iran and saudi arabia .
allied with the houthis for three years , saleh had called on saturday for a new page in relations with saudi arabia .
the murder is a setback for riyadh , which had hoped the backing of saleh and his loyalist army units in northern yemen - would help close a war that has killed 10,000 people and caused one of the world s most acute humanitarian crises .
saudi arabia fears the houthis will become as powerful a force in the middle east as lebanon s iran-backed hezbollah .
the houthis are holding their ground despite air strikes by saudi arabia and its allied forces and a naval blockade that has prevented food , medicine and fuel from arriving in houthi-controlled northern areas , bringing the region to the brink of famine .
last month , the houthis fired a ballistic missile into riyadh .
now , the saudis are turning their hopes to saleh s son ahmed ali and his good ties with saudi ally united arab emirates to do the job his father couldn t. photos of ahmed ali , a military leader admired by thousands of soldiers in houthi-run lands , appeared on the front page of uae newspapers on wednesday meeting the uae s de-facto leader mohammed bin zayed .
saleh s death caps a 40-year political career that charts yemen s tragic modern history .
a country with few natural resources , awash in weapons and fractured along tribal and religious lines , yemen has long been buffeted by its powerful neighbors , particularly saudi arabia .
saleh was the first leader of a unified yemen in 1990 .
but he shifted loyalties various times - fighting the houthis in the 2000s , for example - as the plates of influence shifted in the middle east .
in this latest geopolitical drama , the uae is emerging as playmaker in the yemen crisis .
the uae has been financing and training armed groups that have been pushing toward the red sea port of hodeida , a houthi stronghold and entry point for supplies getting to millions of civilians in northern yemen .
the saleh family has long enjoyed good relations with the wealthy gulf state , which had over the decades funded infrastructure projects in yemen before becoming a key member of the saudi-led coalition .
hamza al-houthi , a top houthi leader , said the houthis had suspected the saleh family s allegiance to the saudi-held coalition for some time and that tensions had been brewing since august .
al-houthi said his troops had intercepted uae arms shipments bound for saleh s family late last month .
as punishment , the houthis killed his nephew tareq on monday .
joost hiltermann of the international crisis group said the latest events mean the war in yemen is likely to escalate .
the houthis , while an important military force , are not particularly adept at politics or governance .
their reach ... in the population is limited , and over time that will play into their opponents hands .
but that won t happen anytime soon , so it looks like the conflict will worsen .
saleh s relationship with saudi arabia and its allies has been marked by politics and prayer .
over the past few decades , riyadh has tried , in succession , to quash an anti-royalist revolution , marxism and al qaeda militancy in yemen .
riyadh backed saleh , an arab nationalist strongman , between 1978 and 2012 to help him quash those ideologies before they could seep next door to saudi arabia .
but as arab spring protests rocked yemen swept through the middle east , riyadh realized saleh was no longer strong enough for the job and backed a transition to his deputy abd-rabbu mansour hadi .
when the houthis attacked sanaa in 2014 and swept hadi into saudi exile , riyadh began the bombing campaign that continues today .
at that time , saleh took one of the riskiest gambles of his turbulent career , allying himself to the houthis , heirs to a theocratic sect that ruled yemen for a thousand years .
saleh s yemeni military which had jets , tank brigades and long-range missiles had fought the houthis in six wars over ten years at the time saleh had allied himself with saudi and western powers .
with saleh s experience administering the country and cultivating a strong military , the houthis made major military gains around the country and together their forces withstood thousands of saudi-led air strikes .
but the houthi-saleh entente cracked in august when a houthi leader passed over a trusted saleh confidante for a key military position , according to people in the general people s congress party , the grouping of technocrats and tribal grandees that did saleh s bidding throughout his rule .
saleh loyalists itched for revenge , they said .
fearing disloyalty , the houthis restricted saleh to his fief in sanaa s political district .
gerald feierstein , a former u.s. ambassador to yemen of the middle east institute in washington , said the houthis then waged their war largely without him .
saleh was largely a spent force by the time he died in a weekend s fighting , wrote feierstein in a policy brief .
on november 29 , tensions exploded .
rumors swirled in the city of sanaa that the houthis were planning to paint the domes of a giant mosque and palace that saleh had built and named after himself in their trademark green .
when houthi militia neared the palace , saleh s guards fired .
the houthis , experts in mountain guerrilla warfare , overran the palace with grenades and seized it .
the houthis wanted saleh to hand over his weapons and disarm his fighters , a senior saleh party official told reuters .
he refused .
another party official said that , contrary to reports that saleh was in his car trying to flee when he was killed on dec. 4 , the former president had been executed with a gunshot to the head after making a last stand at his house .
now , the saleh associate says he and his colleagues are afraid the houthis will turn against all of them .
the houthis want to kill us all .
for a graphic on yemen 's stalemated war , click tmsnrt.rs/2zqgyq9