united nations ( reuters ) - an international investigation into who is to blame for chemical weapons attacks in syria will end on friday after russia blocked for the third time in a month attempts at the united nations to renew the inquiry , which moscow has slammed as flawed .
in the past two years , the joint u.n. and the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) inquiry has found the syrian government used the nerve agent sarin in an april 4 attack and has also several times used chlorine as a weapon .
it blamed islamic state militants for using mustard gas .
russia vetoed on friday a japanese-drafted u.n. security council resolution to extend the inquiry for one month .
it was an eleventh-hour bid to buy more time for negotiations after russia blocked u.s.-drafted resolutions on thursday and oct. 24 to renew the investigation , which the council created in 2015 .
syrian ally russia has cast 11 vetoes on possible security council action on syria since the country s civil war began in 2011 .
the japanese draft received 12 votes in favor on friday , while china abstained and bolivia joined russia to vote no .
after friday s vote , the council moved to closed-door discussions at the request of sweden s u.n .
ambassador olof skoog to ensure we are absolutely convinced we have exhausted every avenue , every effort to try and renew the investigation .
after a brief discussion , italian u.n .
ambassador sebastiano cardi , council president for november , told reporters : the council will continue to work in the coming hours and days , constructively , to find a common position .
russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia told the council earlier on friday that the inquiry could only be extended if fundamental flaws in its work were fixed .
he said that for the past two year the investigators had rubber-stamped baseless accusations against syria .
the council voted on a rival russian-drafted resolution on thursday to renew the inquiry , but it failed after only garnering four votes in favor .
a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , france , russia , britain or china to be adopted .
russia is wasting our time , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley told the council on friday .
russia s actions today and in recent weeks have been designed to delay , to distract and ultimately to defeat the effort to secure accountability for chemical weapons attacks in syria , haley said .
while russia agreed to the creation of the inquiry two years ago , it has consistently questioned its work and conclusions .
the april 4 sarin attack on khan sheikhoun that killed dozens of people prompted the united states to launch missiles on a syrian air base .
haley warned on thursday : we will do it again if we must .
despite the public deadlock and war of words between the united states and russia at the united nations , white house spokeswoman sarah sanders said on thursday that president donald trump believed he could work with russian president vladimir putin on issues like syria .
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .