opposing views and beliefs has much of this country in a heated feud .
with donald trump being recently inaugurated as the 45th president of the united states of america , citizens have been going to war with one another with their polar points of view.on wednesday , milo yiannopoulos , a strong right-wing social figure , was scheduled to speak at uc berkeley .
however , protests that grew into violence between members of opposing sides broke out causing yiannopoulos speech to be canceled.in the midst of the violence being carried out in the area , jake shields was present and apparently helped a man from being severely beaten .
bjpennwatch mma fighter jason shields embarrass the cowards with their faces covered who were part of the mob of 20 men from a domestic terror group , that identifies with an anti-fascist movement , severely beating an innocent man attending milo yiannopoulos speech.following shield s brave act that could have saved the life of an innocent man being attacked by 20 cowards , one of the anti-fascists involved in beating walks up to shields to ask if he s okay ? shields tells the cowards in the masks : there s no f * cking reason ( to have beaten this man ) .
dude , you guys have your faces covered , you re attacking people , you re being f * * king fascists .
look at you guys .
you re f * cking embarrassing .
you don t let 20 people jump a man .
it s not okay !
the coward in the mask answers : there s a f * cking nazi thing at the university , that why everybody s here .
shields responds : what nazi thing ?
who s a nazi ?
the jew guy that was speaking ?
the gay jew ?
coward in mask responds : he s not a jew , he s greek !
what exactly did he say ?
every kept saying he 's a nazi but know knew why .
they call everyone with a different opinion a nazi jake shields ( @ jakeshieldsajj ) february 2 , 2017the idiocy of these violent people just looking for a fight can pretty much be summed up with that one completely uneducated sentence .
these freaks are apparently there protesting a nazi , yet have no idea what a nazi is or that when you say someone is jewish , you are speaking about their religion and not their nationality.watch : the aftermath of me helping a guy after being jumped by thugs .
the police and 100 's of civilians stood and watched .
pic.twitter.com/7hn2ij4kkf jake shields ( @ jakeshieldsajj ) february 2 , 2017i was in berkeley and watched a man getting beat by a mob with no police help .
i was the only person to jump in and help jake shields ( @ jakeshieldsajj ) february 2 , 2017shields tweeted , it was sad to watch 20 people beat a man with no one helping .
it was sad to watching 20 people beat a man with no one helping jake shields ( @ jakeshieldsajj ) february 2 , 2017