president donald trump continued his attack on connecticut sen. richard blumenthal monday afternoon , once again mocking the democratic lawmaker for past falsehoods about his service in vietnam.never in u.s.history has anyone lied or defrauded voters like senator richard blumenthal .
he told stories about his vietnam battles and .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 7 , 2017interesting to watch senator richard blumenthal of connecticut talking about hoax russian collusion when he was a phony vietnam con artist !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 7 , 2017 conquests , how brave he was , and it was all a lie .
he cried like a baby and begged for forgiveness like a child .
now he judges collusion ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 7 , 2017trump initially criticized blumenthal in response to his discussion of the ongoing investigation into russian meddling in the 2016 election and its possible connections to the trump campaign during a cnn interview monday morning .
daily callertrump didn t stop with his string of attacks on the con-man senator , richard blumenthal .
he took to twitter again yesterday to suggest senator blumenthal talk a nice long vacation in vietnam , where he lied about his service , so he can at least say he was there .
i think senator blumenthal should take a nice long vacation in vietnam , where he lied about his service , so he can at least say he was there donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 7 , 2017blumenthal criticized the trump administration s decision to triple the number of leak investigations pursued by the department of justice , arguing in the cnn segment that the plan represented an attempt to weaponize leak probes.trump s comments allude to a 2010 new york times report which found that blumenthal falsely claimed he had served in vietnam during the u.s. occupation .
in truth , blumenthal served in the u.s. marine corps reserve , but he never left the u.s. in the course of service .
the senator later explained that he misspoke .
in case anyone was thinking ( or hoping ) president trump would discontinue using twitter as a way to keep a direct line of communication open with americans , it s not gon na happen .
most of his supporters have become used to his bombastic style and appreciate the way in which he has chosen to connect with americans in a more direct fashion.just before president trump destroyed the con-artist senator from connecticut , he sent this tweet , where , after he shared some of his most significant accomplishments to date , he made it perfectly clear to his followers that he will never change !
: supreme court pick , economic enthusiasm , deregulation & so much more have driven the trump base even closer together .
will never change !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 7 , 2017