brussels ( reuters ) - the eu s top diplomat pledged on thursday to reinvigorate diplomacy with russia , the united states , jordan and others to ensure palestinians have a capital in jerusalem after u.s. president donald trump recognized the city as israel s capital .
the european union , a member of the middle east quartet along with the united states , the united nations and russia , believes it has a duty to make its voice heard as the palestinians biggest aid donor and israel s top trade partner .
the european union has a clear and united position .
we believe the only realistic solution to the conflict between israel and palestine is based on two states and with jerusalem as the capital of both , eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini told a news conference .
she said she would meet jordan s foreign minister on friday , while she and eu foreign ministers would discuss jerusalem with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu in brussels on monday .
the european union will engage even more with the parties and with our regional and international partners .
we will keep working with the middle east quartet , possibly in an enlarged format , said mogherini , citing jordan , egypt and saudi arabia , as well as norway .
we remain convinced that the role of the united states ... is crucial , she said .
mogherini , who also spoke to palestinian president mahmoud abbas , threw her weight behind jordan s king abdullah , saying he was a very wise man that everyone should listen to as the custodian of the muslim holy sites in jerusalem .
trump s decision stirred outrage across the arab and muslim world and alarm among u.s. allies and russia because of jerusalem s internationally disputed status , and the palestinian islamist group hamas urged palestinians to abandon peace efforts and launch a new uprising against israel .
mogherini stressed all 28 eu governments were united on the issue of jerusalem and seeking a solution envisaging a palestinian state on land israel took in a 1967 war , but policy divisions within the bloc have weakened its influence .
this is the consolidated european union position , she said , saying eu foreign ministers made that clear to u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on tuesday in brussels .
hurdles for the eu include its range of positions , ranging from germany s strong support for israel to sweden s 2014 decision to officially recognize the state of palestine .
the eu is also perceived by some in israel as being too pro-palestinian , partly because of the eu s long-held opposition to israeli settlements in the occupied west bank , diplomats say .