( reuters ) - republican presidential nominee donald trump ’ s support has sharply fallen in utah where a poll on wednesday showed him tied with democrat hillary clinton in a state that has voted republican in presidential races for decades .
the survey of 500 people from salt lake city-based y2 analytics also showed a surge for evan mcmullin , an ex-cia officer running as an independent .
trump and clinton were both at 26 percent while mcmullin , a member of the mormon faith that dominates in utah , trailed just behind at 22 percent .
the telephone poll of likely voters was conducted on monday and tuesday , after a video featuring comments from trump about groping women surfaced last week .
the survey underscored the level of disaffection some conservatives have shown for trump , who has found himself at odds with much of the republican party establishment .
the last time a republican presidential nominee lost in utah was in the landslide national election victory of president lyndon johnson , a democrat , in 1964 .
“ there ’ s limits to partisanship even in utah of all places , ” scott riding , managing partner of y2 analytics , said .
the poll results indicate severe erosion in trump ’ s popularity in utah even as clinton ’ s support has grown slightly .
a salt lake tribune poll in september put support for trump at 34 percent , compared with 25 percent for clinton .
a number of prominent utah republicans , including governor gary herbert and u.s .
senator mike lee , pulled their support for trump or called on him to quit the race .
mcmullin , a former cia counter-terrorism specialist and investment banker whose campaign is based in utah , is less well known nationally than the other minor candidates , green party nominee jill stein and libertarian party nominee gary johnson .
johnson ranked fourth in the y2 analytics poll with support from 14 percent of likely voters , roughly in line with his previous level of support in utah .
mcmullin , who is running as a conservative independent , is on the ballot in a dozen states including utah , with plans to expand his reach before the nov. 8 election , according to his campaign spokesman rick wilson .
the vast majority of participants in the poll were familiar with the video tape of trump ’ s vulgar comments about women during a 2005 recording and a third of them said it lowered their opinion of the new york businessman .
the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.38 percentage points .