manila ( reuters ) - the philippine capital s police chief ordered that the entire 1,200-member police force in one of manila s biggest areas be relieved of duty and retrained on friday in response to a series of controversies , including the killing of two teenagers .
metro manila s top officer oscar albayalde said all police personnel in the caloocan area of the capital would undergo retraining and reorientation before being reassigned to other police units , not necessarily in manila .
we will start with the city s police precincts 2 and 7 , albayalde said .
all personnel in caloocan s headquarters and seven precincts would be temporarily replaced by the regional public safety battalion , a combat-trained unit .
this will be done in batches , he said .
albayalde did not say how long the retraining would last and how long it would take for the entire police force in caloocan to be replaced .
it is the first time an entire city police unit has been relieved of its duties since president rodrigo duterte unleashed his bloody crackdown against illegal drugs 15 months ago , a campaign that has killed thousands of filipinos .
the move comes amid intense scrutiny of police activities in caloocan in the wake of the killing of 17-year old kian loyd delos santos last month in what police said was an anti-drugs operation .
his lawyers and family say he was murdered in cold blood .
three officers involved in his killing say he fired at them and they acted in self-defense .
duterte , known for his frequent speeches that call for drug dealers to be killed , ordered a thorough investigation into the delos santos killing and warned police he would not tolerate abuses .
another teenager , carl arnaiz , suffered a similar fate , accused of trying to rob a taxi driver and shooting at police who tried to arrest him .
the taxi driver told reporters on sunday he saw him alive in custody .
about two dozen caloocan residents , holding placards saying stop the killings , held a noisy protest outside the precinct s police headquarters .
dozens of police trainees stood in front and watched the protest .
friday s order came only a day after philippine media reported members of the caloocan precinct 4 raided an elderly woman s home and reportedly stole money in an incident captured on closed circuit television cameras .
reuters could not confirm the report independently .
activists accuse police of executing suspected users and dealers systematically during anti-drugs operations and say official reports that say victims violently resisted arrest are implausible , and contrary to witness accounts .
police reject those allegations and duterte has been furious at critics and political opponents who say he has a kill policy .
the video of the alleged robbery was uploaded on social media sites and went viral , which angered senior police generals .
albayalde immediately issued the orders to relieve the caloocan precincts .
from what we have seen this has been done or will continue to be done by others so it is best to implement this preemptive measure to avoid similar incidents , albayalde told reporters .
he warned other districts in manila could face similar sanctions if they did not shape up .