bush spoke to a hispanic audience in central florida and pandered pretty heavily to the audience .
the audio is pretty raw in places but well worth the listen .
bush claimed ( 23 minute mark ) that encouraging self deportation is not an american value .
people that come to america illegally broke the law so is he saying he wouldn t follow the rule of law ?
he also at the 16:00 mark speaks about making puerto rico a state which is also something obama wanted .
america is 100 % fed up !
with more of the same former florida gov .
jeb bush told a hispanic audience on monday that illegal aliens must be given u.s. citizenship , and encouraging them to self-deport is not an american value.bush made his remarks at church in orlando , where he discussed his christian faith and support for amnesty for illegal aliens , the same day a cnn poll showed that 64 percent of republican voter support deporting illegals.self-deportation is another matter : since the vast majority of illegal aliens commit felonies in order to forge their documents , something like e-verify could halt fraud in its tracks .
no fake social security card , no job , less reason to break into the u.s .
encouraging illegals to leave and to take their massive crime wave with them is a moderate solution to america s immigration problem , but it s too much to stomach for jeb.in a spanish interview that day , jeb also told msnbc he s hurt by gop frontrunner donald trump s comments that criminals from mexico are illegally entering the country and committing crimes against americans , such as rape .
i was hurt hearing somebody speaking in such a vulgar fashion .
this makes solving this problem much more difficult .
when we have politicians like that we can not progress , said bush according to a translator .
in a political sense it was bad , and it creates an environment that is worse .
why pointing out that illegal aliens commit a great deal of crime in the u.s. creates an environment worse than , well , a crime-ridden one is unclear .
read more : breitbart