( reuters ) - investors seeking steady income flows may have ignored the technology sector and the unexpected impact technology is having on companies in other industries , kera van valen , a portfolio manager at epoch investment partners , said on friday .
people have overlooked technology in terms of dividends and the changes some companies have made regarding the cash they generate , van valen told the reuters global investment 2018 outlook summit in new york .
within the tech sector you have seen a slight shift in appreciation towards the discipline of returning cash to shareholders .
that s something people don t expect , she said .
texas instruments inc ( txn.o ) is now part of epoch s high-dividend-based shareholder yield strategy as the chipmaker has committed to returning 100 percent of free cash flow through dividends and share buybacks , she said .
the company targets free cash flow to be somewhere in the range of 20 percent to 30 percent of their revenue , said van valen , who helps oversee epoch s u.s. and global dividend strategies , which account for half of its $ 48.6 billion in assets under management .
epoch s shareholder yield strategy is invested in a number of companies that use technology to improve their productivity , asset utilization and to reduce capital requirements .
the result is an increase in return on equity and a company s ability to return more capital to shareholders in the form of dividends , share repurchases and debt reduction .
increased efficiency through technology also has been unrecognized by investors in unforeseen places such as utilities , where epoch owns utility holding company ppl corp ( ppl.n ) .
ppl is spending $ 500 million on a smart meter replacement program that will modernize the power grid to make it smarter and more resilient , van valen said .
ppl can be more efficient when deploying people to deal with outages as a result of smart meters , she said .
they will no longer need people to look for the outages .
another technology play investors may have missed is mcdonald s corp ( mcd.n ) , which has partnered with ubereats and the use of a mobile app offer delivery in 3,700 restaurants , van valen said .
mcdonald s is touting its technology to increase efficiency , which flows to a company s bottom line , she said .
you don t necessary think of a large global fast food chain as a technology company , she said .
it s helping with the growth in the revenues , profits and cash flows , which , from our perspective , that means growth in the dividends .
epoch is quite constructive on the outlook for 2018 as the market shifts from a period of central bank-driven low interest rates to one focused on profit growth and margins .
another overlooked stock is red electrica ( ree.mc ) in spain , where the utility is unlikely to see changes in the regulatory environment and epoch expects the dividend to grow 7 percent to 8 percent a year , van valen said .
it s a regulated utility so it falls within that boring mantra that we like so much , she said .
another name epoch likes is altria group inc ( mo.n ) because of the strong pricing power and tremendous cash flows enjoyed by tobacco companies , she said .
altria is very consistent about returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks and debt reduction , she said .