vatican city ( reuters ) - the vatican s first auditor-general , who resigned without explanation in june , has broken his silence , saying he was forced to step down with trumped-up accusations after discovering evidence of possible illegal activity .
speaking to reporters from four media organizations including reuters in the office of his lawyers in rome , libero milone also said he believed that some in the vatican wanted to slow down pope francis s efforts at financial reform .
he said he could not give details of the irregularities he had found because of non-disclosure agreements .
reuters was unable to independently verify his assertions , which the vatican strongly contested .
the holy see s deputy secretary of state , archbishop giovanni angelo becciu , told reuters in an interview that milone s claims were false and unjustified .
he went against all the rules and was spying on the private lives of his superiors and staff , including me , becciu said .
if he had not agreed to resign , we would have prosecuted him .
domenico giani , the vatican s police chief , told reuters there had been overwhelming evidence against milone .
neither becciu nor giani provided details to support their assertions .
the 69-year-old left the vatican two years after being hired with great fanfare to introduce more transparency into the sometimes murky finances at the headquarters of the roman catholic church .
at the time of his resignation , with three years left on his contract , neither the vatican nor milone , formerly chairman and ceo of the global accounting firm deloitte in italy , gave any explanation for his departure .
a vatican statement at the time said only that it was by mutual agreement .
milone , who had also worked for the united nations and the car giant fiat , said becciu had ordered him to resign on the morning of june 19 .
milone was told that he was being dismissed on the basis of a seven-month investigation by vatican police .
the facts presented to me on the morning of the 19th were fake , fabricated , he said .
i was in shock .
all the reasons had no credible foundation .
both becciu and giani , the police chief , said milone had been given a choice : resign or face public prosecution by the vatican s courts .
in a certain sense , we were protecting his reputation , becciu said .
milone said he had been accused of misuse of funds for hiring an outside firm to check the security of computers in the vatican offices where he worked with a staff of 14 , including two deputy auditors-general .
a document from the vatican prosecutor authorizing the search of his offices on the day of his resignation , which milone s lawyers showed to reporters , said he had carried out investigations in clear violation of the statutes of his department .
it was not clear which statutes were said to have been violated .
article two of the statutes says the auditor-general has full autonomy and independence , including to receive and investigate any reports on anomalous activities of vatican entities .
my work has to be independent .
it is very difficult to act with independence when departments blocked our activity or tried to control it , he said .
the search warrant also said he had looked into the affairs of high-ranking church members without authorization .
milone said this referred to him looking into suspicions about the possible conflict of interest of an italian cardinal , whom he declined to name .
his investigation found nothing , but milone said he believed he was being punished for starting it in the first place .
he said his troubles had begun on the morning of sept. 27 , 2015 , when he suspected that his office computer had been tampered with .
he contacted an external company that had done work for him before to check for surveillance devices because there are no such specialized people in the vatican .
the company discovered that his computer had been the target of an unauthorized access , and that his secretary s computer had been infected with spyware that copied files .
reuters was not able to independently determine which company had been hired or its findings .
becciu said there was proof that the outside contractor had been helping milone to spy on others .
milone said that , after about 12 hours of questioning by vatican police , he had decided to sign a resignation letter in order to protect my family and my reputation .
asked why he had waited three months before telling his side of the story , milone said he had wanted to think and let things settle .
i wrote to the pope in mid-july and gave him my point of view , explaining that the whole thing was a set-up , he said , adding that the pope had not replied .
becciu said the pope had been told of the investigation and the evidence before milone was asked to resign .