this story is for anyone who believes liberal judges don t have the ability to make life altering decisions that affect americans who don t conform to an acceptable thought process a boulder , colorado judge has removed a child from her mother s care because the mother believes chemtrails are being sprayed into the atmosphere , court documents reveal.boulder judge d.d .
mallard told becca vandb that 99 % of people would know those are just contrails , and said that she is so immersed in a fringe subculture that she is a danger to her daughter .
i can now only see my daughter with a social security worker standing over me taking notes , and the judge said this was so that if i mention chemtrails they would put a stop to that .
becca pointed out that there have been no neglect or child abuse allegations from the court or her daughter s school .
there have been no criminal charges and no protective services visits .
i am being railroaded for expressing my views about chemtrails .
becca vandb s daughter wants to be with her mother , but is being kept away from her , with only supervised visits allowed , because judge mallard believes becca is immersed in a dangerous fringe subculture .
i bought up chemtrails at my daughter s school and was immediately banned from the premises .
schools and courts in boulder , colorado have flat out denied there is any such thing as geoengineering or chemtrails , so has my kid s dad who works in atmospheric research at the university of colorado seriously .
[ quote_box_center ] i can now only see my daughter with a social security worker standing over me taking notes , and the judge said this was so that if i mention chemtrails they would put a stop to that .
' [ /quote_box_center ] dangerous precedent the school helped him take away custody because i had the gall to argue with them when they severely embellished my comments ( made to adults only ) about chemtrails .
meanwhile an historic lawsuit has been filed in canada in an effort to expose and halt the practice of chemtrails being sprayed into the atmosphere .
the suit claims that the canadian and us governments are conducting a geoengineering program that aims to spray toxic substances and particles into the atmosphere endangering the lives of millions of citizens .
via : trendolizer