dundo , angola ( reuters ) - captured by militia and accused of being married to a congolese government official , kimpanga caro could smell the fire she was told would be used to burn her decapitated head to ash .
caro , whose husband is a pastor not an official , was freed when one of the militiamen recognized her .
she raced back home to find her husband in their ransacked village .
they fled south , on foot with their five children , towards a country they heard was safe : angola .
thirty thousand of her compatriots have made the same journey so far , among 1.4 million people driven from their homes in a year of violence in the central kasai region of the democratic republic of congo .
there are signs that the refugee crisis is causing angola a powerful regional ally that helped sustain congolese president joseph kabila and his father in power for two decades to question its support for the leader of its volatile neighbor .
at least 3,300 people have been killed in kasai since the kamuina nsapu militia launched an insurrection to force a military withdrawal from the area .
refugees say villages have been destroyed and women have been raped both by the militiamen and by soldiers who have fought them .
their flight into the angolan province of lunda norte has brought an international relief effort to the area for the first time since angola s own 27-year civil war ended in 2002 .
a cooling in angola s support for kabila would leave the congolese president more isolated than ever and make it even harder for him to hang on to power beyond the end of this year , when he has pledged to hold an election already a year late .
angola , with the third largest economy in sub-saharan africa and one of the region s strongest militaries , has twice in the past sent troops to prop up kabila .
now , its soldiers are trying to contain the violence on the frontier .
luanda has doubled its troops and police on the border , according to marcelino caetano , provincial director of the service for migration and foreigners , responsible for lunda norte province s 770-kilometre border with the drc .
we will maintain this level of control for as long as we have to , he said in his cramped , well-guarded offices in dundo , an old diamond mining town just 9 kilometers from the border , declining to give exact numbers for angolan troops in the area .
angola had pushed kinshasa to allow u.n. officials into kasai to help , but the congolese have declined , he said .
since march , two angolan border guards and one immigration official have been killed in attacks by congolese militia on four separate border posts , said inacio feliciano , a senior police commander .
aid agencies suspect angolan forces are patrolling inside congo , though caetano denied this .
the unrest is not the only change that could alter angola s policy of supporting kabila : in luanda , a new president is about to take power after 38 years of rule by jose eduardo dos santos .
jo o louren o , a military man and former defense minister , lacks dos santos s historic ties with kabila and his father laurent , who took power in congo in 1997 and was killed in 2001 .
louren o regards kabila as an increasingly destabilizing force , according to a diplomat familiar with his thinking , although the diplomat said military intervention against kabila remains unlikely as it would probably make things worse .
he doesn t want a libya on his doorstep .
angola has worried about the 2,600-kilometre border it shares with the drc for decades .
during angola s civil war , enemies of the ruling mpla party hid , trained and armed in the former zaire .
unrest in the vast , mineral rich congo has had a tendency to draw its neighbors into regional conflict .
with the victims of the kasai violence now crossing into angola and the threat of militia groups moving across the border too , the benefit of keeping kabila as an ally is less obvious .
at the chissanda crossing last week , located just north of dundo , two officials said the border was closed .
guards sat around chatting and watching the sun set .
authorities say they are letting refugees cross , though the stream has stopped in recent weeks .
some are even choosing to return home .
the congolese army says it has taken back control of kasai , though commander feliciano said he had received reports of clashes around the city of kananga on sept 7 .
refugees interviewed by reuters told of soldiers raping and executing residents for supporting the militia in villages the army had taken back .
we expect it to get worse again as we approach the end of the year , said guy-rufin guernas , the local head for the united nations refugee agency ( unhcr ) in dundo .
kabila agreed to hold presidential elections , due in 2016 , by december .
but the vote looks unlikely to happen by then , potentially sparking a violent backlash .
unhcr is working on the basis that another 50,000 refugees could cross into angola before 2017 ends .
to accommodate them , a new settlement is being constructed about 100 km outside dundo , in the municipality of lovua .
last wednesday , recent arrivals were digging up roots on the 25x25 meter plots of land that families are being given in this remote area of sparse forest .
getting equipment , from solar lights to bulldozers , is difficult and expensive .
located at the north-eastern tip of angola , dundo s airport only just re-opened .
most goods are brought in by truck from saurimo , the provincial capital of neighboring lunda sul , three hours away .
at night there is almost total darkness .
buying basic goods is difficult .
the cost of taking in the refugees is steep for angola , which is in the midst of recession after the fall in the price of oil , its main source of wealth .
angola has had its own war , it understands the suffering these people are going through , said guernas .
in cacanda , an earlier more ad-hoc settlement where nearly 7,000 refugees are still crammed under tarpaulin before they move to lovua , many complain of a lack of food and shelter .
rafael tshimbumba , 50 , says the conditions may be basic but he can not return to kasai .
he lost four children in the violence , when militias arrived at his village and began killing anyone that spoke tshiluba , language of the baluba people , highlighting the increasingly tribal element of the conflict .
here at least we are safe , he said , wearing the red and black t-shirt of the mpla party that governs angola .
for caro , who escaped from congo with her pastor husband after the militia threatened to kill her , the flight itself led only to more danger .
as the family stopped to rest in a village near the border , a passing car snatched her 5-year old boy .
she searched for him for days and put a message out on the local radio , but found nothing .
only god knows where he s gone , she said , holding her youngest child in her arms .