the outspoken comedian posed for a photo shoot with controversial photographer tyler shields in which she is holding a bloodied mask of president trump .
* * * warning * * * photo is graphic and could be confused with an act of terror by an isis terrorist : here s the gruesome isis inspired video that griffin posted to twitter : https : //twitter.com/kathygriffin/status/869654650844098562tmz published the gory photo from griffin s photo session with the famed shields , known for his shocking pictures .
foxit didn t take long for the son and father of 5 of president donald j. trump s grandchildren to react to the isis-like photo liberals like comedian kathy griffin think is funny donald trump jr. is blasting kathy griffin , and all liberals , for her photo op with a bloodied mask of president trump but admits he s not all that shocked.don jr. called the gory tyler shields shot of kathy disgusting but not surprising .
this is the left today .
they consider this acceptable .
he also said , imagine a conservative did this to obama as potus ?
tmzdonald trump jr. isn t immune from the hateful , and intolerant left .
only one week before the election , liberal rag magazine esquire published a story using this bloodied a photo of donald trump jr. , a father of five young children simply because he is the son of a man who dared to shake up the system and challenge the rightful heiress to the american throne.the esquire article was titled : we re just saying that people are saying it.after kathy griffin got hammered by twitter users for her sick and very distasteful photo op , she responded by saying she s not apologizing , she s simply using a bloodied , decapitated head to mock our president : https : //twitter.com/kathygriffin/status/869655312239697920twitter users who didn t find any humor in the photo that more closely resembled an act of terror than an act of humor responded to the vile comedian : it wasn t so long ago that griffin was seen smiling on a trump golf course in a photo with donald trump s arm around her .
but that was before he became president and threatened her small-minded world.twitter wasn t the only social media outlet who went after griffin .
greg locke , a popular pastor who posts commentary videos related to current social issues on facebook really let kathy griffin have it .
watch :