on wednesday , failing president donald trump attempted to distract from his ongoing troubles with his administration s numerous , suspicious , and likely treasonous ties to russia by once again attacking media he considers adversarial which , of course , is anyone but fox news and breitbart at this point .
in this case , he once again went after the failing new york times .
remember when the failing @ nytimes apologized to its subscribers , right after the election , because their coverage was so wrong , trump tweeted .
now worse !
remember when the failing @ nytimes apologized to its subscribers , right after the election , because their coverage was so wrong .
now worse !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 29 , 2017no .
no one remembers that because it didn t happen .
trump , of course , is referencing a 200-word letter printed by the times after the election thanking readers for their loyalty and pledging to rededicate itself to the same high journalistic standards to which the publication has always held itself .
at no point did the times which has broken numerous stories that were uncomfortable for the donald and doubled its subscriptions in 2016 ( so much for failing , huh ? )
say its excellent coverage was bad nor did they apologize to their readers .
if the people of our great country could only see how viciously and inaccurately my administration is covered by certain media !
trump added , failing to note that only right-wing media covers him inaccurately.if the people of our great country could only see how viciously and inaccurately my administration is covered by certain media !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 29 , 2017naturally , americans dropped by to let trump know what they think of his alternative facts : @ realdonaldtrump you have moved from fake news to fake memories .
matt haig ( @ matthaig1 ) march 29 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump @ nytimes no one remembers because you 're lying .
you are reporting fake news .
you are the problem here .
you need to go .
mike p williams ( @ mike_p_williams ) march 29 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump was n't true the last two times you said it , still not true now pic.twitter.com/fwfko0yfss dave itzkoff ( @ ditzkoff ) march 29 , 2017 ( here 's the nyt letter trump is referring to .
it 's really not an apology at all . )
https : //t.co/pndj04rr31 zach schonfeld ( @ zzzzaaaacccchhh ) march 29 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump generally i do n't remember things that never happened .
alex zalben ( @ azalben ) march 29 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump @ nytimes no one remembers this , no , because it never happened you crazy old fuck jason bailey ( @ jasondashbailey ) march 29 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump @ nytimes remember when your great legal mind pal judge napolitano was fired by fox 4 a false story ? ? ? ? ?
gina ( @ gina660 ) march 29 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump @ nytimes was n't an apology .
was a thank you to subscribers and a declaration of continued excellence in journalism pic.twitter.com/n7bsgm2uxe jennifer barnett ( @ jenzerb ) march 29 , 2017trump s desperation is becoming more and more obvious by the day .
he s running scared and it s up to the fake news media to make sure he goes down in flames.featured image via getty images ( pool ) /screengrab