brussels ( reuters ) - the european commission on wednesday stepped up legal action against hungary over restrictions on foreign funding likely to affect civil society groups funded by the billionaire investor george soros .
the eu executive believes the law , passed in june , violates the right to freedom of association and to protection of private life and personal data enshrined in the eu s charter of fundamental rights , as well as breaching the principle of free movement of capital .
hungary s right-wing prime minister , viktor orban , has long criticized organizations funded by the hungarian-born soros , accusing them of working as paid activists advocating soros s political goals , notably by opposing orban s tough immigration policy .
when soros in june praised the courageous way hungarians have resisted the deception and corruption of the mafia state orban has established , orban called it a declaration of war , and accused soros of running a mafia-like network .
the commission expressed its concerns over the law on non-governmental organizations ( ngos ) to budapest in july , the latest in a long line of grievances about what brussels and many member states see as a track record of flouting fundamental eu values .
having carefully analyzed the explanations put forward by hungary , the european commission concludes that its serious concerns have not been addressed , it said in wednesday s statement .
the commission s next step in the infringement procedure is to issue a so-called reasoned opinion , giving hungary one month to take the requested measures .
if hungary fails to reply satisfactorily to the reasoned opinion , then the commission may refer the case to the court of justice of the eu , the statement said .
the commission has already issued a similar ultimatum to hungary over an education law that brussels says infringes academic freedom and could result in the closure of a budapest university founded by soros .
since coming to power in 2010 , orban has eliminated checks on his power by taking control of much of hungary s media , curbing the powers of the constitutional court and placing loyalists in top positions at public institutions .
while brussels can open cases against eu states violating common rules , they are lengthy and often have little impact .
that means the eu executive has little leverage over orban , who has been in office since 2010 and faces an election next year .