brasilia ( reuters ) - a congressional committee voted 39-26 on wednesday to reject charges against brazilian president michel temer stemming from a corruption case involving the world s largest meatpacker .
the full lower house of brazil s congress still must vote on the charges but is expected to shelve them next week , sparing temer from trial by the supreme court for alleged obstruction of justice and membership in a criminal organization .
temer was accused of taking bribes and condoning the payment of hush money to a jailed politician in testimony by meatpacker joesley batista .
temer has denied any wrongdoing and his lawyers argued that the case against him was flawed because it was based on an inconclusive recording that batista secretly made of a conversation with the president .
the lower chamber decides whether a brazilian president can be put on trial .
two-thirds of its members must vote to approve a charge for it to move forward , a hurdle his opponents are not expected to clear .
temer survived an earlier corruption charge in the lower house in august in connection with the same graft scheme in which prosecutors accused him of arranging to receive a total of 38 million reais ( $ 11.8 million ) in bribes from jbs sa .
in committee debates on wednesday , opposition congressman alessandro molon , of the center-left party called sustainability network , said temer was part of a criminal organization that collected bribes .
he accused the president of taking part in decisions on how the money was distributed .
workers party lawmakers called for temer to stand trial , saying the charges against him were more serious than those leveled at his predecessor dilma rousseff , who was impeached last year for a lesser crime of violating budget rules .
but temer s allies argued that the charges should be thrown out because the country needs temer to serve out his mandate through the end of 2018 for political and economic stability .
they said temer has recovered brazil from its worst recession , brought inflation under control , restored the purchasing power of brazilian consumers and should stay in office to recover investor confidence .
presidential aides said temer will now be able to get on with his economic policy agenda focused on boosting weak growth and bringing a bulging government budget deficit under control .
the political capital and time temer has spent defending himself , however , has delayed approval of a crucial overhaul of the pension system , the main cause of the fiscal deficit that cost brazil s its investment-grade credit rating in 2015 .
temer will be hard pressed to get the unpopular pension bill approved before the 2018 election year starts and promised reform of brazil s burdensome tax system might is now unlikely .