donald trump wished americans a happy new year by referring to millions of them as his enemies .
and then there s president obama , who did it the right way , and more.on new year s eve morning , trump posted yet another insulting tweet , antagonizing the millions of americans who despise him.happy new year to all , including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don t know what to do .
love !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 31 , 2016yeah , that didn t go so well , and people smacked him down hard for posting such an unpresidential message .
and then just before midnight , trump attempted a do-over.to all americans- # happynewyear & many blessings to you all !
looking forward to a wonderful & prosperous 2017 as we work together to # maga ? ?
pic.twitter.com/uabfaodyhe donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 1 , 2017but that made people even angrier , because he should have posted that message to begin with instead of the divisive one he chose .
president obama , on the other hand , celebrated the dawning of 2017 by looking back at all the progress americans helped him achieve for this country despite eight years of republican obstruction.as we look ahead to the future , i wanted to take a moment to look back on the remarkable progress that you made possible these past 8 years .
president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017facing the worst financial crisis in 80 years , you delivered the longest streak of job growth in our history .
pic.twitter.com/vk3pfrgzqf president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017after decades of rising health care costs , today nearly every american now has access to the financial security of affordable health care .
pic.twitter.com/5e4neccxim president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017we traded foreign oil for clean energy , we doubled fuel efficiency standards , & we acted on a global scale to save the one planet we ve got .
pic.twitter.com/7alrothnir president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017we brought home more of our troops & strengthened u.s. leadership leading with diplomacy & partnering with nations to meet global problems .
president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017from realizing marriage equality to removing barriers to opportunity , we ve made history in our work to reaffirm that all are created equal .
president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017and then president obama wished americans a happy new year the right way.it s been the privilege of my life to serve as your president .
i look forward to standing with you as a citizen .
happy new year everybody .
president obama ( @ potus ) january 1 , 2017adding further to trump s humiliation , president obama s new year s greeting got more likes on twitter than both of trump s combined .
in short , president obama trumped trump and demonstrated once again how a real president is supposed to behave .
it s a shame we won t be seeing true presidential behavior again for at least four years.featured image : mark wilson via getty images