it s difficult to tell what obama s doing with lists excluding white christians as cabinet position possibilities but it s wrong and it s discrimination !
obama is everything he claims conservative americans are he s a bigot ! this follows a pattern of the obama administration using race and religion to determine hiring , with other leaked emails showing potential political appointees being labeled with an f for female , b for black , h for hispanic , and m for muslim .
another wikileaks release showed the obama transition team keeping extensive lists of non-white candidates for administration posts.the wikileaks emails have given us a clue into what obama and clinton are doing behind the scenes .
thank goodness we can confirm that they re both despicable people .
it s been a long 8 years with obama so please don t vote for another 4 with clinton the newest batch of john podesta s hacked emails released by wikileaks shows obama s transition team kept lists of muslim and asian candidates for jobs in the administration.according to an email chain from 2008 , john podesta received lists of exclusively muslims and asians to be considered for jobs in the obama administration .
the email chain revealed that in this process , middle eastern christians were purposefully excluded , or set aside in a separate list , with an aide writing , in the candidates for top jobs , i excluded those with some arab american background but who are not muslim ( e.g. , george mitchell ) .
many lebanese americans , for example , are christian .
in the last list ( of outside boards/commissions ) , most who are listed appear to be muslim american , except that a handful ( where noted ) may be arab american but of uncertain religion ( esp .
christian ) .also notable , there was concern that some of the muslims suggested would not survive media scrutiny , with one aide writing , high-profile muslim americans tend to be the subject of a fair amount of blogger criticism , and so the individuals on this list would need to be especially carefully vetted .
she continues , i suspect some of the people i list would not survive such a vet but i do personally know , at least in part , virtually all of the candidates in the 1st two categories ( but i know very few of those listed for outside boards/commissions ) .
within the lists themselves , candidates were further broken down , with every candidate labeled by their nationality and sometimes race.this follows a pattern of the obama administration using race and religion to determine hiring , with other leaked emails showing potential political appointees being labeled with an f for female , b for black , h for hispanic , and m for muslim .
another wikileaks release showed the obama transition team keeping extensive lists of non-white candidates for administration posts.read more : daily caller