jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian security forces in the eastern province of papua are preparing to storm five villages that they say are being held by an armed rebel group , police officials said on saturday .
around 200 police and military personnel have been deployed and are awaiting orders to secure the area , where an armed separatist group linked to the free papua movement ( opm ) is preventing about 1,000 people from leaving an area near a giant copper mine , operated by the american miner freeport-mcmoran inc. [ nl3n1ng46n ] today the joint police and military forces have occupied various posts to be able to take action , said papua police spokesman , suryadi diaz .
they will be taken dead or alive , he said of the around 100 rebels that police say have tortured and abused the villagers since taking over the area several days ago .
a state of emergency has been declared in the area and at least 300 additional security forces have been deployed to the area of the province after a string of shootings since aug. 17 that killed one police officer and wounded six .
the rebel group , the west papua national liberation army ( tpn-opm ) , on friday denied occupying villages near the mine , but said it was at war with the police , military , and freeport .
papua has had a long-running and sometimes violent separatist movement since it was incorporated into indonesia after a widely criticized u.n.-backed referendum in 1969 .
president joko widodo has sought to ease tension in the two provinces by stepping up investment , freeing political prisoners and addressing human rights concerns .
this is the first escalation of violence during his term .
freeport s grasberg mine has been dogged by security concerns for decades due to a low-level conflict waged by pro-independence rebels in papua .
between 2009 and 2015 , shootings within the mine project area killed 20 people and wounded 59 .
more recently , freeport , the world s largest publicly listed copper producer , has been grappling with labor problems at grasberg and a dispute with the indonesian government over rights to the mine .
[ nl2n1n00ld ]