chisinau ( reuters ) - the moldovan government said on thursday it has sent 57 servicemen to ukraine to participate in military exercises starting this week , deepening a row with the pro-russian president who had vetoed the move .
the drills in western ukraine from sept. 8-23 will be conducted mainly by nato member countries , including the united states , the united kingdom and turkey .
they coincide with war games known as zapad , or west , by thousands of russian troops in belarus , the baltic sea , western russia and the russian exclave of kaliningrad .
the russian exercises have worried nato despite moscow s assurances troops would rehearse a purely defensive scenario .
moldova is governed by a pro-western government and a pro-moscow president , meaning frequent clashes over foreign policy , especially where relations with russia and the european union are concerned .
the government s plans to send troops were vetoed by president igor dodon , who argued that moldova is bound by its constitution to stay neutral .
the defense ministry ignored the president , who is also moldova s commander-in-chief .
officially i confirm that , despite all the obstacles , 57 servicemen of moldova , as was planned earlier , just an hour ago went by bus to participate in nato military exercises , which start on friday in ukraine , defence ministry spokeswoman diana gradinaru said .
earlier this year dodon banned the participation of military personnel in nato exercises in romania , prompting complaints by the u.s. and romanian ambassadors .
moldova has been governed by pro-western governments since 2009 and signed a trade pact with the eu in 2014 .
russia retaliated by halting imports of moldovan farm produce , depriving the country of a key market for its wine , fruit and vegetables .
relations suffered further this year due to a dispute in march over the treatment of moldovan officials traveling to or through russia , and the expulsion of russian diplomats in may .
in august , moldova declared russian deputy prime minister dmitry rogozin persona non grata , accusing him of making defamatory remarks about moldovan government officials .