this news comes on the heels of obama s release the drug offenders in prisons tour .
all part of the fundamental transformation of america president barack obama s gutting of enforcement of immigration laws claimed another life , this time in lawrence , massachusetts.mirta rivera , a 41-year-old nurse and grandmother who was an american citizen born in puerto rico , was shot and killed early in the morning on july 4 as she lay in her bed by a bullet that came through the ceiling of her apartment beneath illegal alien drug dealers , according to police .
three men have been arrested , two of them are illegal aliens .
both men were known to be illegal aliens and freed by the obama administration.illegal aliens jose lara-mejia ( white t-shirt ) and wilton lara-calmona ( plaid shirt ) in court .
photo , whdh-tv.the boston herald has done in depth reporting on the case which has been ignored by the national media .
deportation orders failed to oust two illegal immigrants who are now up on drug charges and under investigation in the july 4 shooting death of a lawrence grandmother in an alarming case that critics say illustrates a revolving immigration door with dangerous consequences .
dominican republic nationals wilton lara-calmona and jose m. lara-mejia were arrested on drug charges by police investigating the shooting death of mirta rivera , 41 .
the lawrence nurse was killed in her sleep by a gunshot fired through the ceiling from an upstairs apartment , where both men lived .
but immigration and customs enforcement records reviewed by the herald show the men shouldn t have been in the country in the first place .
lara-calmona , 38 , was deported in april 2012 and arrested for re-entering the country last november , the records show .
lara-mejia , 35 , was nabbed crossing the border in august 2013 and ordered deported in april 2014 , but had remained in the country illegally .
ice spokesman shawn neudauer confirmed that lara-mejia was ordered removed by a federal immigration judge on april 9 , 2014 , after failing to appear before the immigration court .
he was considered an ice fugitive until his july 4 , 2015 , arrest by local authorities in lawrence , massachusetts .
7news boston whdh-tv 7news boston whdh-tvthe boston globe reported on the shooting and preliminary charges .
mirta rivera was asleep saturday morning when a bullet pierced through a hardwood floor in the apartment above , hitting her in the abdomen , traveling through her mattress and into the floor before bouncing back into her box spring .
rivera s boyfriend , jorge villalta , and responding officers tried to save her , but the 41-year-old woman was pronounced dead at lawrence general hospital .
moments after the shooting , police discovered a bullet hole in the ceiling above rivera s bed , leading officers to a second-floor unit where they found three men , a woman , heroin and cocaine worth about $ 75,000 , a scale , material for packaging drugs and firearms .
when officers entered the unit around 4:26 a.m. , the fresh stench of gunpowder hung in the air , police said .
christopher paganmoux , 23 ; jose lara-mejia , 35 ; and wilton lara-calmona , 38 , were arraigned on charges of trafficking in heroin over 200 grams , trafficking in cocaine over 14 grams , and possession with intent to distribute a class a substance near a school or park , according to court records .
lawrence district court judge lynn rooney ordered paganmoux , who faces an additional charge of trafficking heroine over 14 grams , held on $ 250,000 cash bail .
lara-mejia and lara-calmona were ordered held on $ 500,000 cash bail .
police found a black handgun between the mattress and box spring of a bed in the apartment on exchange street , court records show , as well as drug paraphernalia and a rifle .
a mushroomed bullet found in rivera s box spring matched the rifle and a casing that was found , police said .
via : bizpac review