mexico city ( reuters ) - when tuesday s earthquake struck mexico , martha mejia watched the tin walls of her tiny shack quiver and remembered the smell of death that hung in the air of shattered apartment blocks 32 years before .
i wanted to scream because i had lived this all before .
i wanted to run out and scream , said the 64-year-old mejia , whose home was destroyed in a 1985 quake that devastated mexico city .
back then , i was strong .
but this time i felt it more .
the 1985 earthquake , which killed around 5,000 people , was a defining moment for the mexican capital .
three decades on , hundreds of its victims are still living in hovel encampments across the sprawling city of 20 million , waiting for long-promised government-subsidized homes - and now the latest quake has made thousands more people homeless .
mejia s apartment building in the santa maria la ribera neighborhood was shaken to the ground in 1985 .
today , she lives in one of the encampments with her husband , her daughter and a granddaughter .
their 10-foot by 20-foot hovel in the lindavista district in the north of the capital has a double bed , a bunk bed and a stove .
supposedly this place was going to be temporary , but that temporary has been my whole life , she said .
a heavy rain pounded on the tin roof of the shack as mejia watched tv coverage of this week s earthquake and wept .
tuesday s tremor - which struck on the anniversary of the 1985 quake - killed close to 300 people .
the time has come for me to give up all illusions , mejia said .
now with this other earthquake , how many people will be left homeless ?
they are going to make new shelters and we are going to stay in the same one .
according to the leaders of the lindavista camp , its ramshackle shacks are home to around 750 people , divided into roughly 250 families .
there are almost 200 children who are the grandchildren of those originally resettled here , according to local leaders .
at least six such camps exist in the capital .
mexico city s housing institute said that since 2016 , they have delivered 173 homes to victims of the 1985 quake and expected to hand over 120 more before the end of next year .
data on how many homes have been delivered in total since 1985 was not immediately available .
with the race for july s presidential race heating up , president enrique pena nieto , the mayor of mexico city and governors from the affected states rushed to the scene of the recent devastation , making promises to help those affected .
political parties have vied to outdo each other with offers to donate campaign funds to disaster victims .
but there is deep skepticism among mexicans that they will see enough aid .
jeanete morales , 41 , cleans offices in the city and comes home every night to the lindavista shanty town she first moved into with her mom when she was nine years old .
their three-story apartment building was severely damaged in 1985 and they were soon forced to leave and brought to the camp .
they were told they would only be there for two weeks .
now married with four children , morales still lives at the camp .
her mother died eight years ago .
she died believing she would get her house , morales said .
it makes you so mad .
you feel so impotent .
morales said officials at the city s housing institute said they already gave her mother an apartment .
alfredo villegas , one of the leaders of the camp , said morales mother had not been given a home despite her name appearing on what he said was a government list of those who had been given homes .
the list he produced could not be immediately authenticated by reuters .
the questions is : where are those apartments ?
villegas said .
he said it seemed that city officials were fraudulently selling homes to others .
the cost of the government-subsidized homes depends on a victim s income but is often in the range of 250,000-300-000 pesos ( $ 14,000- $ 17,000 ) , villegas said .
the housing institute did not immediately respond to request for comment .
mexico city mayor miguel angel mancera has said the problem lies with how the institute delivers housing to the loose organizations that represent the people with a claim to the subsidized housing .
at least 2,500 people are sleeping in the streets or in their cars in mexico city after tuesday s 7.1 magnitude tremor collapsed dozens of buildings and damaged hundreds more .
thousands of others have lost their homes in the states of morelos , puebla and the state of mexico .
many more in oaxaca and chiapas lost their homes in the quake that hit southern mexico on sept. 7 .
hundreds of millions of dollars will be required for reconstruction in mexico city , according to the mayor .
the home of taxi driver emanuel jardon , 60 , was severely damaged by the collapse of a neighboring building on tuesday .
wearing a helmet , he cursed politicians as he cleared debris from his home .
it is a vile lie .
right now as the campaigns begin ... they come to see us , to supervise , but the months will pass and they will forget , he said .
i m sorry to be rude , but they suck .