berlin ( reuters ) - wolfgang schaeuble s decision to step aside as german finance minister has given the free democratic party what it has long craved : the chance to shape policy from the most coveted perch in chancellor angela merkel s next coalition government .
however the opportunity also presents the party with a conundrum .
fdp leader christian lindner has signaled for months that he would prefer to lead the business-friendly party in parliament rather than take a cabinet job under merkel .
if lindner sticks to his stance then the fdp , which is returning to parliament after a four-year hiatus , must find someone else to fill one of the most important positions in international economic and financial policy .
the person who replaces schaeuble could also carry the prestigious title of vice chancellor .
the only party member besides lindner with that kind of stature is wolfgang kubicki , whose political skills are unquestioned but who is also known as a loose cannon , a reputation that may not suit a sensitive job where a few ill-judged words can move global financial markets .
if it is not lindner , then there are not a lot of options , said one senior figure in the party .
kubicki might be the only one with the profile and political weight .
the finance ministry seems to be the fdp s for the taking .
as the second biggest party in what is expected to be a three-way coalition with merkel s conservatives and the greens , it would have first choice of cabinet post .
the post has become more influential over the past decade as germany , the world s fourth largest economy , navigated the global financial crisis and euro zone turmoil .
schaeuble , who is becoming president of the parliament , was known for his budget discipline and tough stance toward struggling euro partners like greece .
whoever replaces him will play a crucial role in shaping germany s response to calls from french president emmanuel macron for an ambitious overhaul of the eu and euro zone .
the finance ministry will be absolutely crucial in the next government in shaping not just germany s fiscal stance but the future of europe , said jens boysen-hogrefe of the kiel institute for the world economy .
no one besides lindner deserves more credit for the fdp s revival after its disastrous 2013 election result than the 65-year-old kubicki , a quick-witted lawyer who sails around on his yacht liberty and is known as one of the most outspoken , colorful figures in german politics .
earlier this year , after donald trump announced his travel ban on seven mainly muslim countries , kubicki said berlin should retaliate by barring the u.s. president from entering germany .
he has made clear in the past that he is interested in the finance job .
in a 2010 interview with newspaper die zeit , he said it was the only position that might lure him from his home in the port of kiel in the northern state of schleswig-holstein .
only one post would interest me , finance minister , kubicki said at the time .
finance minister is the key job , and i would like to prove that budget consolidation can work .
asked on friday by german daily handelsblatt whether he wanted the job , kubicki dodged the question , saying policy was more important than cabinet posts .
but the interview with die zeit showed why the party , and merkel , might have second thoughts .
explaining why he hadn t yet made a move to berlin , kubicki told the paper that if he did , he could turn into a drinker and possibly also a whoremonger .
he then painted a hedonistic picture of political life in berlin , replete with alcohol-soaked receptions and trysts with random women .
when asked about these comments today , kubicki who is married to his third wife , says he has become ethically and morally centered in the intervening years .
the names of other fdp politicians are circulating as potential finance ministers .
they include werner hoyer , president of the european investment bank ( eib ) ; carl-ludwig thiele of the bundesbank ; volker wissing , the former head of the bundestag finance committee ; and otto fricke , former head of the budget committee .
two members of the european parliament , alexander graf lambsdorff and michael theurer , have also been mentioned .
one can not completely rule out that merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) will keep the post .
if they do , peter altmaier , who is expected to replace schaeuble until the new government is formed , could be a favorite .
however , the scenario that several politicians in berlin said was most likely is that lindner will be compelled to take the finance ministry , with kubicki sliding in as parliamentary leader , which is seen as a role more suited to his strengths .
having lindner , the face of the fdp , outside the government would be frowned upon by merkel , who will be trying to hold together an unwieldy coalition with the fdp and greens , a combination that has never been tried at the federal level .
there are big differences between the fdp and greens on economic , environmental and european policy .
add in merkel s bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , which is pushing a hard line on immigration , and it is hard to see how the parties will bridge some policy gaps and hold together .
regardless of who takes the job , big changes in fiscal policy are seen as unlikely .
the fdp has called for 30 billion euros in tax cuts , but it is unlikely to get its way in the coalition talks and it remains committed to the schwarze null balanced budget that schaeuble defended .
you might see new impulses with an fdp finance minister , said boysen-hogrefe of the kiel institute .
but don t count on big changes .
the schwarze null will remain a priority .