bangkok ( reuters ) - drums and a band played as officials in black tops and ancient costumes rehearsed on saturday for the funeral procession of thailand s late king bhumibol adulyadej , whose cremation next week is expected to be attended by a quarter of a million mourners .
some held a mock-up of a golden urn that had held the remains of dead kings in the past .
in the present , the king s body is placed in a coffin but the urn is still used to represent the monarch s remains .
the procession rehearsal , which was expected to take up to five hours , passed crowds of black-clad mourners in bangkok s historic quarter .
some were visibly moved by the proceedings .
others held gold-framed portraits of the late king .
the military government has set 3 billion baht ( $ 90 million ) aside for the lavish funeral .
preparations took almost a year to complete , with thousands of artisans working to create an elaborate structure of gold-tipped thai pavilions in a square in front of the glittering grand palace .
king bhumibol , who died on oct. 13 last year at the age of 87 , ruled thailand for seven decades and is credited by some as having revived the prestige of the monarchy .
a revival in the monarchy s popularity was helped by a formidable public relations machine - the evening news in thailand includes a daily segment dedicated to the royals and the late king was often featured in his younger days crisscrossing the country to meet the poor and disenfranchised .
that public relations drive helped to enshrine the king s status as a demi-god among some of his 68 million subjects .
the five-day funeral will be attended by dozens of heads of state including king jigme khesar namgyel wangchuck of bhutan and japan s prince akishino and princess kiko , among others .
the post-funeral period could be one of uncertainty for many thais , say analysts , who point to the king s role over the years as a moral compass and arbiter during decades of political upheaval .
his only son king maha vajiralongkorn formally ascended the throne last year but his coronation will not take place until after his father s funeral .
the king s cremation will take place on oct. 26 .
the day has been a declared a national holiday and many businesses have announced they will shut all day or close at midday .
more than 10,000 7-eleven convenience stores across the country , a staple for many thais , will be shut on the day .