washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential front-runner donald trump blasted close rival ted cruz on monday , threatening to file a lawsuit challenging his eligibility for the white house if the texas senator does not take down his “ false ads. ” the new york billionaire , whose campaign has long been littered with insults , called cruz “ totally unstable ” and said he is “ the single biggest liar i ’ ve ever come across , in politics or otherwise , and i have seen some of the best of them. ” speaking at a news conference in south carolina , trump said he could “ fight back ” by bringing a lawsuit against cruz over the fact that he was born in canada , which trump argues makes him ineligible to become president .
“ if he doesn ’ t take down his false ads and retract his lies , i will do so immediately , ” he said .
cruz scored a key early victory in the republican race to pick a nominee for the nov. 8 presidential election when he won the iowa caucuses earlier this month , and has been attacking trump on a range of issues .
trump said the republican national committee should intervene to stop cruz from misrepresenting his views and policies on issues such as abortion , gun rights , healthcare and potential supreme court nominees .
he said he had signed a pledge with the rnc agreeing not to run a third-party candidacy , and to support the eventual republican nominee , and the rnc should do its bit to keep the campaign fair .
“ the bottom line is the rnc is controlled by the establishment ... and special interests , ” trump told reporters .
“ i signed a pledge , but it ’ s a double-edged pledge .
as far as i ’ m concerned , they ’ re in default on their pledge. ” trump ’ s remarks , days ahead of saturday ’ s republican primary in south carolina , came after increasingly bitter exchanges between the two candidates in recent weeks .
cruz has hammered trump on key issues , and said on saturday that if elected he would appoint liberals to the supreme court .
trump has long said that cruz may not be constitutionally qualified to serve as president because he was born in canada .
the u.s. constitution says only “ natural born ” citizens can become president of the united states .
born in calgary , alberta , to a u.s. citizen mother and a cuban father , cruz has accused trump of bringing up his birthplace simply because cruz is leading some polls .
last month , cruz said trump , who led the movement questioning whether the hawaiian-born president barack obama was really from the united states , had asked his lawyers to look into the issue of cruz ’ s birth in september and concluded there were no issues .
( reporting by andrea shalal ; editing by frances kerry ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .