remember when valerie jarrett signed with a hollywood talent agency ?
well , we think she thinks she s a big deal now .
how do we know ?
she charges $ 30k to speak !
who would pay a penny to hear this commie speak ? a college in her hometown would pay this except they re going broke ! that s a whopper of a bill for a university in her hometown that s going broke .
there was an outcry when is was discovered that she would speak and charge $ 30k .
someone came forward to donate the fee but wouldn t it have been a great move on her part to donate the money to the failing university ? valerie jarrett found herself in hot water in her adopted hometown for agreeing to take a $ 30,000 speaking fee from a public university that s going broke , a new report said tuesday.president obama s longtime adviser and confidante eventually waived the fee for delivering a commencement address at northeastern illinois university in chicago after an outcry over the hefty payment , politico reported.the university shut down over spring break and also announced unpaid furlough days for staffers , the most recent in a string of measures taken to fight financial woes caused by a lengthy partisan state budget debate.the chicago sun-times first reported the details in jarrett s contract , and that a private donor agreed to pay her fee once university leaders raised objections .
while keenly aware of the financial challenges in illinois , we were not aware of the specific issues facing northeastern illinois university or that a donor would be paying for the speaking fee , amy brundage , a jarrett spokeswoman , told politico .
jarrett notified [ university ] president [ richard ] helldobler this morning that she will not be accepting a speaking fee for the commencement address .
jarrett looks forward to addressing the graduates and other members of the neiu community next month .
neiu board members were not amused about the deal paying so much for a speaker at a time the school is cutting programs and struggling to survive.read more : nyp