buea/bamenda , cameroon ( reuters ) - soldiers shot dead at least eight people and wounded others in cameroon s restless english-speaking regions on sunday during protests by activists calling for its independence from the majority francophone nation , an official and witnesses said .
the demonstrations - timed to take place on the anniversary of anglophone cameroon s independence from britain - came as a months-old movement against perceived marginalization by the francophone-dominated government gathered pace .
the protests , which began late last year , have become a lightning rod for opposition to president paul biya s 35-year rule .
donatus njong fonyuy , mayor of the town of kumbo , said five prisoners were killed at around 6 a.m. ( 0500 gmt ) after the jail where they were being held caught fire .
we don t know what caused the fire in the prison ...
but five prisoners were killed by soldiers .
two were wounded by bullets and are at the hospital , he told reuters , adding that another two civilians were also injured .
in other incidents in kumbo , soldiers shot and killed a demonstrator and wounded two others who had raised the blue and white flag of the ambazonia separatist movement in the town .
another woman was killed inside her home , fonyuy said , without giving further details .
police and army officials were not immediately available to comment on the shootings .
we won t use violence unless there is major cause .
there are numerous risks , even terrorist risks .
we re keeping calm , a security source , who declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to journalists , said earlier in the day .
writing on his official facebook account , president biya condemned the violence .
let me make this very clear : it is not forbidden to voice any concerns in the republic .
however , nothing great can be achieved by using verbal excesses , street violence , and defying authority , he said .
cameroon s divide has its roots in the end of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun between the allied french and british victors .
authorities had banned all gatherings of more than four people , ordered bus stations , eateries and shops to shut and forbade movement between different parts of the english-speaking regions ahead of the protests .
the government also ordered cameroon s border with nigeria closed for the weekend .
access to popular social media and messaging apps , including facebook , twitter and whatsapp , was disrupted from friday .
communications minister issa tchiroma bakary on sunday threatened to shut any media outlets giving a voice to separatists , saying they must not encourage those who advocate division , who want to destroy and destabilize our country .
businesses were shuttered in the regions main cities , buea and bamenda , where military helicopters circled overhead .
the security deployment included troops from the cameroonian army s rapid intervention brigade , a unit that typically fights islamist boko haram militants in the country s north .
one protester was killed on the edge of buea as security forces attempted to block pro-independence marchers from entering the city , three witnesses said .
hundreds nevertheless slipped through the countryside to get around the blockade and into the city , where security forces used teargas to try to stop them from marching on the regional governor s office .
a reuters witness also heard gunfire , though it was not clear whether the shots were targeting protesters or being fired in the air .
the military , which is supposed to protect lives and property , has turned into our greatest nightmare , said one buea resident , who asked not to be identified out of fear of reprisal .
in bamenda , where a bomb attack blamed on separatists wounded three policemen last week , young men brandishing improvised secessionist flags clashed with security forces who attempted to disperse them with teargas .
thousands of government supporters meanwhile marched in douala , cameroon s main port city and its commercial hub , voicing their opposition to calls for independence or more autonomy for the anglophone regions .
we are here ... to reject sectarianism , to condemn all kinds of hate , all forms of violence carried out under any pretext whatsoever , justice minister laurent esso told the pro-government crowd .