cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian security forces killed 13 militants during a raid on a farm hideout in the western desert region on friday , a week after a deadly attack on a police convoy , authorities said .
an interior ministry statement gave no details on the militants , but egyptian forces have been battling several armed islamist groups , mostly focused on an entrenched islamic state affiliate that has killed hundreds of police officers and troops in the northern sinai peninsula since 2013 .
they took a house in the farm as a temporary hideout faraway from security monitoring to receive newly recruited elements and train them and prepare the explosive devices , the ministry statement said .
the clashes were in an area near the assuit-kharga desert highway , around 400 km ( 248.55 miles ) southwest of cairo , in new valley province that shares a long border with neighboring southern libya .
southern libya has become a hideout for militant brigades taking advantage of the security vacuum there .
after clashes with the militants , the ministry said 13 bodies were recovered at the farm , some wearing militant uniforms .
security forces also recovered weapons , suicide bomb belts , cash and ammunition .
the statement did not say whether the group was linked to the militants who attacked police last week in a remote area of giza governorate , 135 km outside cairo , when sources say they were searching for a militant hideout .
security forces dealt a severe blow to the terrorist elements in revenge for the blood of the men who were martyred last week in the oasis , the state news agency mena said earlier , citing a high-level security source .
most of egypt s violence is centered in the northern sinai , where a local group , ansar bait al-maqdis , pledged allegiance to islamic state in 2014 .
it had mostly targeted security forces with ambushes and suicide attacks , but has spread to other areas of egypt outside the peninsula .
the western desert region has long been for a route for smugglers and arms coming across libya s porous border .
the egyptian military said on monday its air force hit eight four-wheel-drive vehicles carrying arms and explosives at the western border with libya , killing the militants on board .