in their rush to make radical muslims terrorists feel as though they are welcome in belgium , coupled with their naive belief that if they coddle them enough , they will assimilate , the authorities have clearly forgotten about the victims of a horrific terror attack that took place in brussels only months ago .
when european nations start coddling terrorists and terror recruiters who are attracting muslims from their homeland to commit horrific acts of violence against innocent people , the entire nation is screwed erin mclaughlin of cnn told the story of a young man , a teen who became caught up in the isis recruiting web after a vacation in belgium .
eight months after that trip to vacation in belgium , salia said her son became radicalized .
he sent her a facebook message to let her know he was in syria.then came a chilling phone call .
the syrian guide said , congratulation , congratulation .
your son died as a martyr , and then he hung up.it was horrible .
when i heard about his death , i felt like i died myself .
she says her son was the happiest of her four children .
she didn t know the most dangerous jihadist recruitment network in brussels approached her son.it was the most dangerous of webs .
some were convicted and given lengthy prison sentences but , remarkably , were free on bail.it is veteran jihadists and recruiters .
some would go on to carry out the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels .
authorities prosecuted for man 60 recruiters and foreign fighters .
one of them was sala .
his recruiters were declared guilty as you see here , the judge allowed them to walk free pending their appeal .
cnn tracked down one of the recruiters to his home address that is neighborhood of a convicted recruiter.her son said he pleaded , he wanted to come home .
the recruiter said , no .
we re here to ask him why.we ring the doorbell .
his mother answers .
she screams at us to leave her alone .
as we walk away , the recruiter appears and confronts us .
his words are not welcoming .
he refuses to talk to us on camera.families living in the complex don t even know they are living amongst them .
it must be the eu pc.belgian authorities tell cnn they have not notified residents that a convicted jihadist recruiter is living in their midst.we saw a teenage boy entering the same apartment building .
the president of brussels tribunal says in belgium it is not unusual for a criminal to go free while they re waiting for appeal .
if they re not considered a flight risk .
how s it that a convicted member of a terrorist organization sentenced to seven years in prison is allowed to walk free after his trial ?
they re free , the official said , because they behaved during the trial.his mother said it s like her son died twice seeing his recruiters running loose on the streets.for entire story : independent sentinel