apparently being the wife of a former democrat president and serial pervert , and ( more importantly ) having a vagina , allows people to overlook her reprehensible behavior during wednesday night s democratic debate , hillary clinton said the mother of a benghazi victim lied.patricia smith , the mother of sean smith , one of the four americans who were killed by terrorists in an attack on the u.s. consulate in benghazi during clinton s tenure , said in a cnn interview last october that clinton lied to her about the circumstances surrounding her son s death.instead of stating that her son s death had been caused by an act of terrorism , clinton blamed an inflammatory video that had been circulating online in the weeks leading up to the attack a narrative she knew at the time to be false.when asked about this on wednesday , clinton pushed back at smith s claim , saying the mother of the benghazi victim was absolutely wrong .
i can t imagine the grief she has about losing her son , clinton said .
but she s wrong .
she s absolutely wrong !
via : the federalistof course , hillary was lying when she called sean smith s mother a liar .
there is clear evidence of her lie that was found in her unsecured emails .
her media allies at cnn chose to give her a pass on the truth in favor of allowing a greiving mother of an american hero to be called a liar on national tv .
watch the video of hillary s testimony in front of the house select committee on benghazi : hillary clinton sent an email to her daughter , chelsea , on sept. 11 , 2012 in which she asserted that an al-qaida-like group was responsible for the terrorist attacks in benghazi , it was revealed on thursday during the former secretary of state s testimony to the house select committee on benghazi.the email , which was revealed by ohio rep. jim jordan , indicates that clinton knew early on that the attacks which left four americans dead was carried out by terrorists .
but as jordan pointed out , clinton and others in the obama administration had already begun crafting the narrative that the attack was spontaneous and that the attackers were motivated by a youtube video many muslims found offensive .