beijing ( reuters ) - good preparations should be made by china and the united states to ensure that u.s. president donald trump s visit to china later this year is a success , chinese foreign minister wang yi told u.s. vice president mike pence .
trump will likely visit china in november as part of a trip that will take him to an asean summit in the philippines and an apec summit in vietnam .
the two sides should make good preparations for the visit to ensure its success so that concrete achievements can be obtained and conditions can be created for good prospects , giving fresh impetus to bilateral ties , wang said , according to the official xinhua news agency on thursday .
close communications between xi and trump have meant a smooth transition and a good start in china s relationship with the united states under the new administration , he said .
a stable and healthy relationship between the two countries is good for both countries and the international community , wang told pence on the sidelines of the annual general debate of the united nations general assembly on wednesday , xinhua reported .
china s relationship with the united states has been strained by the trump administration s criticism of china s trade practices and by demands that beijing do more to pressure north korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programs .
chinese president xi jinping and trump met for the first time in person at trump s mar-a-lago estate in florida in april .
trump has since played up his personal relationship with xi , even when criticizing china over north korea and trade .
the two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting , including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of american beef sales in china .
there has since been limited progress on trade relations , especially after trump began to launch trade investigations into chinese practices via the world trade organization .
trump s administration has also repeatedly called on china to do more to rein in north korea and has threatened new sanctions on chinese banks and other firms doing business with pyongyang .
china says it is already doing all it can to pressure north korea and that those countries directly involved in the stand-off on the peninsula should take responsibility for resolving tensions .