london ( reuters ) - iranian authorities have opened a new case against a british-iranian charity worker serving five years in jail in tehran , leveling charges that could carry a sentence of 16 additional years in prison , her family said on monday .
nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , was arrested by the elite revolutionary guards in april 2016 at a tehran airport , as she was about to return to britain with her two-year-old daughter after a family visit .
she was convicted of plotting to overthrow iran s clerical establishment , a charge denied by her family and the foundation , a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
she was sentenced to five years in prison .
in a hearing in evin prison , where she is serving her term , zaghari-ratcliffe was told on sunday that a new case had been opened at the insistence of the revolutionary guards , iran s most powerful security force , her family said in a statement .
the new charges include joining and receiving money from organizations working to overthrow the islamic republic , and attending a demonstration outside the iranian embassy in london , the family said .
nazanin and the rest of her family are bewildered at this turn , the family statement said .
her husband richard ratcliffe said the revolutionary guards were inventing new charges to prevent her early release .
iran s judiciary was not immediately available for comment .
zaghari-ratcliffe used to work in london for the bbc , which iran says is seeking to topple the islamic theocracy .
during sunday s hearing she rejected all the new charges , the family said .
iran refuses to recognize dual nationals and denies them access to consular assistance .
on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly in september , britain s foreign minister , boris johnson , said progress in the relationship between london and tehran would depend to some extent on a resolution of the nazanin case .