kabul ( reuters ) - gunmen disguised as police killed a security guard and opened fire on staff at a private television station in the afghan capital kabul on tuesday and islamic state claimed responsibility for the attack .
after a sporadic gun battle lasting about two hours , afghan special forces suppressed the attack on shamshad tv , a private pashto-language broadcaster based close to the national stadium .
police said at least two people were killed and 20 wounded .
people dressed in police clothes came in and initially threw hand grenades , which killed one of our guards and wounded another , abed ehsas , shamshad s news director told broadcaster tolo news tv .
others got into our building and started firing .
some of our colleagues were hit , though , thank god , many others managed to get out .
some were wounded by gunshots , falling glass and when they jumped from higher floors .
some two hours later the station , which had replaced regular programs with a still picture as the fighting went on , resumed normal service , its newsreader appearing with a bandage on a hand injured in the attack ..
the attack , which underlined insecurity in kabul , came on the day nato announced an increase of some 3,000 troops in its resolute support mission in afghanistan as part of a bid to break the stalemate with taliban insurgents .
amid the crack of gunfire , a special forces unit blasted a hole in the concrete wall around the compound and entered the site as police blocked off surrounding streets .
at least one attacker was killed during the operation , while another died at the compound entrance .
in a statement on its news agency amaq , islamic state claimed responsibility , without giving evidence .
the group , based mainly in the eastern province of nangarhar , has claimed a number of attacks on civilian targets in kabul but uncertainty remains over whether all the attacks the group claims are actually its work .
shortly after the beginning of the attack , the taliban s main spokesman , zabihullah mujahid , issued an immediate denial of involvement .
suicide bombings are part of life in kabul but the latest attack on journalists and media workers was described by human rights group amnesty international as an horrific crime .
the afghan authorities must do what they can to protect the country s media , allowing them to work freely and without fear , the group said in a statement .
last year a taliban suicide bomber killed seven members of afghanistan s largest private television station , tolo .
in may , islamic state claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on state broadcaster rta in the eastern city of jalalabad .. tuesday s attack took place about three weeks after a series of attacks including one on a shi ite mosque in the city in which more than 50 people were killed .