istanbul/ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan showed no retreat from a diplomatic row with the united states on saturday , castigating washington for what he said an undemocratic indictment against his security detail .
his comments may further dash hopes of a quick resolution to an on-going diplomatic crisis between the nato allies .
both ankara and washington have cut back issuing visas to each other s citizens as ties have worsened .
they say the united states is the cradle of democracy .
this can t be true .
this can t be democracy , erdogan said in a speech in istanbul .
if arrest warrants are issued against my bodyguards in absentia ... in the united states , where i went upon invitation , excuse me but i will not say this is a civilized country .
a u.s. grand jury in august indicted 15 turkish security officials over a brawl between protesters and erdogan s security personnel during the turkish president s visit to washington in may .
erdogan has said the indictment was not binding for ankara .
the row deepened after turkish authorities arrested two u.s. consular staff , both turkish nationals .
in may , a translator at the consulate in the southern province of adana was arrested and two weeks ago a drug enforcement administration ( dea ) worker was detained in istanbul .
both are accused of links to last year failed coup .
the u.s. embassy has said the accusations are baseless .
turkish police want to question a third worker based in istanbul .
his wife and daughter were detained this month last week over alleged links to the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , blamed by ankara for orchestrating the abortive putsch .
they were later released .
turkey has been angered by what it sees as u.s. reluctance to hand over the cleric gulen , who has lived in pennsylvania since 1999 .
u.s. officials have said its courts require sufficient evidence to order his extradition .
turkey has also been enraged by washington s support for the syrian kurdish ypg militia in the fight against islamic state .
turkey regards the ypg as an extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) .
on saturday , the u.s. embassy issued statement reiterating its stance on the pkk and its jailed leader , abdullah ocalan , in an apparent response to criticism from erdogan .
the u.s. government works together with turkey in the fight against terrorism and maintenance of stability in the region , it said on twitter .
the pkk is listed among foreign terror organizations .
ocalan has been jailed in turkey for his actions related to the pkk .
he is not a person to be respected .
on friday , erdogan criticized the united states over a huge banner of jailed kurdish militant leader abdullah ocalan unfurled in syria s raqqa by u.s.-backed kurdish forces .
the banner was raised at a ceremony to mark raqqa s capture from islamic state in a campaign spearheaded by the ypg .
how can the u.s. explain the poster of ocalan in raqqa ?
is this the way they are cooperating with us in the struggle against terror ?
erdogan said .
you are not standing by us against terrorism .
ocalan has been in jail in turkey since 1999 on a treason conviction .
more than 40,000 people , most of them kurds , have died in the fighting since the pkk took up arms against the state in 1984 .
the pkk is considered a terrorist organization by the united states , turkey and the european union .