beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian army and its allies have secured the palmyra to deir al-zor road , a major supply route from government territory to the eastern city , defeating a strong islamic state attack , a military media unit run by lebanon s hezbollah said on friday .
islamic state s assault , which began on thursday , is the first major counterattack against the syrian army and its allies since they broke through a swathe of territory to reach the city of deir al-zor this month .
the syrian army and its allies completely secured the deir al-zor-palmyra highway after foiling the intense attack , the hezbollah media unit said .
the highway has become passable for traffic in both directions to and from deir al-zor .
hezbollah is one of the main allies of syrian president bashar al-assad , alongside russia , iran and other shi ite militias .
earlier on friday , a commander in the military alliance backing assad had said the road linking deir al-zor to palmyra was being used only when absolutely necessary , and that the army and its allies were fighting to recover lost ground .
islamic state had captured the town of al-shoula , which sits on the highway , and the commander said at least 10 hezbollah fighters had been killed in the fighting .
islamic state said it had killed about 40 syrian soldiers and captured several positions .
the syrian army s advance to deir al-zor , helped by the russian military and iranian-backed militias , lifted a three-year-long islamic state siege on a government-held enclave in the city .
the syrian observatory for human rights said the islamic state attacks had killed more than 58 fighters from the syrian army and allied forces since thursday .
a u.s.-backed alliance of syrian militias , the syrian democratic forces , is waging a separate offensive against islamic state in deir al-zor to the east of the euphrates river , which bisects the province .
in an undated recorded statement released on thursday , islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi pressed his followers to stand fast and keep fighting .