geneva ( reuters ) - syrian government negotiator bashar al-ja afari accused its opposition , backed by western countries and saudi arabia , of sabotaging a round of u.n.-led peace talks that ended in geneva on thursday without any results .
he said damascus did not want the talks to fail but the opposition had put down a precondition last month by concluding a conference known as riyadh 2 with a declaration that president bashar al-assad had no role in syria s political transition .
the riyadh 2 communique is blackmail of the geneva process , ja afari told reporters .
those who drew up the riyadh 2 statement were the ones who sabotaged this round .
i mean by that the other side .
i mean the saudis and the saudi handlers themselves who are the western countries .
they do not want the geneva process to succeed .
ja afari said that the syrian delegation at the geneva talks had engaged seriously in the round , which he said had focused on counter-terrorism .
the mediator of the talks , u.n. special envoy for syria staffan de mistura , used a television interview on wednesday to urge russia to convince its ally assad of the need to clinch a peace deal to end the nearly seven-year-old war .
ja afari said that russia was its ally but that de mistura had made an error in the interview with swiss television channel rts .
his mandate as facilitator of the talks would be reviewed in the light of his report to the u.n. security council on tuesday , ja afari said .
nobody can exert pressure on us , ja afari told reporters .
we have allies , we have friends , we have people on the ground fighting with us .
therefore what the special envoy may mistakenly say does not reflect our relationship with our allies .
although the geneva process has made almost no progress , there was some hope at the start of the round that de mistura would succeed in getting the two sides to meet , rather than shuttling between them .
but ja afari ruled that out while the opposition stuck to its riyadh statement , and dismissed a question about what he might say if he were to meet the opposition face-to-face at a possible syria meeting in sochi early in 2018 , which russia is trying to organize .
we are politicians , we don t work in science fiction , he said .