washington ( reuters ) - fewer than a third of americans support donald trump ’ s tax-cut plan , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on tuesday , as the u.s. president went to capitol hill looking for republican backing for his proposal to slash tax rates for individuals and companies .
as the 2018 midterm congressional election campaigns grow nearer , the poll found that more than two-thirds of registered voters said reducing the u.s. federal budget deficit is more important than cutting taxes for the wealthy or for corporations .
trump ’ s plan would balloon the deficit and add to the $ 20 trillion national debt , according to critics and independent analysts , but republicans say the tax cuts proposed in the plan would be offset by economic growth that would generate new tax revenue .
among republicans surveyed , 63 percent said deficit reduction should take priority over tax cuts for corporations , while 75 percent said deficit reduction should take priority over tax cuts for the wealthy .
democrats oppose trump ’ s plan , unveiled on sept. 27 , and say it is unfair to the poor and the working class .
the plan is still only a nine-page “ framework. ” it was drafted in secret by trump administration and congressional leaders .
formal legislation is in development .
congressional leaders and trump are trying to lock in support for the plan from rank-and-file republicans , who were uninvolved in the framework drafting process .
trump , who has yet to score a major legislative win since taking office in january , wants his plan to become law before year ’ s end , a timeframe that some policy analysts doubt is realistic .
more than half of the adults surveyed in the poll agreed that “ cutting taxes for the poor is more important than reducing the federal deficit , ” with 68 percent of democrats and 47 percent of republicans in accord with that statement , the poll showed .
the oct. 20-23 poll found that only 15 percent of registered voters said republicans in congress should prioritize tax reform over other issues .
about a quarter of those polled , including 23 percent of democrats and 30 percent of republicans , agreed that congress should continue working on a healthcare bill .
of those adults who said they had heard of the “ tax reform plan recently proposed by congressional republicans , ” just 28 percent said they support it , while 41 percent said they oppose it and another 31 percent said they do not know .
the poll found opinions on trump ’ s plan were sharply divided along party lines , with 56 percent of republicans and just 9 percent of democrats supporting it .
of those who had heard of the plan , 14 percent said it would cut their taxes , while 30 percent said it would increase their taxes .
another 35 percent said their taxes would not change and 20 percent said they did not know how it would impact them .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
it gathered responses from 1,862 people , including 1,079 people who said they were aware of the republican tax plan .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .