washington ( reuters ) - ohio governor john kasich , who has staked his republican presidential campaign on the upcoming contests in the midwest , said on monday he would not need a lead in the delegate count before his party ’ s convention to win the nomination , according to media reports .
“ in order to be the nominee , you have to have a certain number of votes , ” kasich said after a town hall in monroe , michigan , which holds its presidential primary on tuesday .
“ you ’ ve got to win .
you don ’ t just say , ‘ well , i have more than anybody else , therefore i ’ m in , ’ ” kasich said , according to the washington post .
kasich , who is rising in some opinion polls to compete with ted cruz for second place in michigan ’ s republican primary , has embraced the idea of a brokered convention to choose the nominee if no one gets a majority of delegates in the nominating contests for the nov. 8 election .
new york billionaire donald trump is at the top of the dwindling republican pack with the highest delegate count , but victories on saturday by cruz , the u.s. senator from texas , cut into his lead .
kasich trails all his rivals , including u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , in delegates won .
kasich ’ s best showing so far in the presidential nominating contests was second place in new hampshire .
he is hoping for a similar result in michigan and an outright win in his home state on march 15 to keep his campaign viable .
he bristled on monday when asked about contentions by some republicans that he is a spoiler in the race to beat trump , whose rhetoric on immigrants , muslims and women has raised alarm within the republican establishment and beyond .
“ maybe they ’ re spoiling it for me .
maybe they all ought to get out , ” kasich said on fox news on monday .
( reporting by doina chiacu ; editing by peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .