ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s justice minister has told his u.s. counterpart that a former turkish police investigator who testified at the trial of a turkish banker in new york this week is wanted by ankara and should be swiftly returned , ministry sources said on friday .
huseyin korkmaz gave evidence at the new york trial of a turkish banker who is charged with helping iran evade u.s. sanctions , in a case which has strained ties between nato allies turkey and the united states .
it has been requested by our judicial offices that ( korkmaz ) be temporarily arrested with the aim of being repatriated , based on alleged crimes , justice minister abdulhamit gul said in a letter to u.s. justice secretary jeff sessions , according to the sources at his ministry .
we expect that the request is met on positive terms and the previously mentioned person be repatriated as soon as possible .
the turkish government has said followers of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , who it blames for last year s failed military coup , are behind the case brought in the united states .
gulen has denied any role in the coup attempt .
i want to point out that a fugitive , a terror suspect facing serious allegations , taking part in this case in your country as a witness is big enough a scandal , gul said , adding that the case could cause irreparable damage to relations if action was not taken .
korkmaz told the trial at manhattan federal court this week that he feared he would be tortured if he returned to turkey , where he led an investigation involving turkish officials and mehmet hakan atilla , the bank executive on trial in new york .
gul s letter repeated turkish allegations of contact between members of the judiciary who have handled the case and members of the gulen network .
foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu has said the cases showed the extent to which gulen had infiltrated american state institutions , including its judiciary .
needless to say , those claims are ridiculous , acting u.s. attorney , kim h. joon said last month in response to such accusations .
the case has been handled by career prosecutors concerned only with u.s. law , not turkish politics , kim said , adding : they re not gulenists .
prosecutors have accused atilla , an executive at turkey s state-owned halkbank , of working with turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab and others to help iran evade u.s. sanctions through fraudulent gold and food transactions .
atilla , 47 , has pleaded not guilty .
zarrab , 34 , pleaded guilty and testified for u.s. prosecutors .
turkish president tayyip erdogan , who has governed turkey for almost 15 years , has dismissed the case as a politically inspired attempt to bring down the turkish government .