islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan s ruling party on tuesday re-elected ousted premier nawaz sharif as its leader , saying he was back with full force , a day after using its parliamentary majority to amend a law to allow him to re-take the job .
jafar iqbal , who headed a five-member election body , said sharif had been elected party president unopposed by the pakistan muslim league nawaz s ( pml-n ) central executive committee .
sharif resigned as prime minister in july after the supreme court disqualified him for not declaring a source of income .
he was also forced to step down as president of pml-n , though he kept control of the party and installed shahid khaqan abbasi , a loyalist , as prime minister .
sharif s re-election as party chief brings him back into the political fold , he said , contradicting those who thought he would no longer be relevant .
there have been attempts again and again to exit me , but you will always keep giving me an entry again and again , sharif told party workers after his election .
i congratulate that you re bringing nawaz sharif back with full force .
no one came forward to contest sharif , iqbal said amid clapping , thumping and slogans in support of sharif in televised proceedings of the election in islamabad .
the former prime minister will lead the party for four years .
nawaz sharif is the symbol of economic development in pakistan , interior minister ahsan iqbal said in his address to the party members .
parliament amended a law on monday to enable sharif to re-take the pml-n leadership .
opposition lawmakers tore up paper copies of the election bill 2017 , passed by the senate last week , that allowed sharif to become the party president again .
the vote was more of a formality as pml-n has a vast majority .
sharif has appeared before an anti-corruption court and is expected to be indicted next week , along with three of his children .
the veteran leader denies any wrongdoing and has alleged there was a conspiracy against him , with senior pml-n figures pointing fingers at elements of pakistan s powerful military .
the army denies playing a role .