on the surface , this seems like such a simple request it s not !
after digging and finding the true agenda on the climate change scam , it s very clear that this entire thing is an effort to redistribute wealth around the world .
don t believe us ?
just check out the comments from the people attending the paris climate summit : for many years the public at large has been spoonfed the idea that global warming climate change , is caused by man s excessive release of carbon into the atmosphere .
and that the solution to the climate crisis was to decrease the production of said gas.over the past several years the global warming fanatics have changed their tune .
many of us in the new media have been warning about their true motives for year.now , instead of the climate crisis being caused by carbon emissions , it is being caused by inequality.on monday , during a press conference at the united nations conference on climate change in paris , ms. camille risler , a representative of the asia pacific forum on women , law and development ( apwld ) which is an organization listed as an official consultant to the united nations economic and social council , stated that the cause of climate change is the unequal distribution of wealth , carbon , and power : this is the press conference of the women and ( unintelligible ) constituency .
it is one of the nine official constituencies of the unfccc , and we are composed of 15 women s rights and feminist organizations from all around the world .
so i m going to begin with kind of an overview of our positions and then i will give the floor over to my colleagues that will go more into details of each section of negotiations.i m camille risler .
i m from france but i m living in thailand .
i m working for a feminist network that is called asia pacific forum on women , law and development and i m working for the climate justice program.so what we want to highlight here is that climate change is a clear symptom of an unequal and unjust world.so if we are to address the climate crisis we need to challenge the structural causes of the crisis which lies on unequal distribution of wealth , of carbon , and of power .
whether it s political power , economic power , or even military power .
ms. risler goes on to say that the solution to the climate crisis is to create more just and equitable economies .roughly translated that means an economy based along the lines of socialism and communism .
because now , according to the climate preachers , nothing is more dangerous to the planet than a free market economy , individual free will , and inequality .
not even islamic terrorists.you can view the entire press conference herepope francis has urged christians to make caring for the environment a core part of their faith as he called for concerted action against ecological degradation and climate change .
god gave us a bountiful garden , but we have turned it into a polluted wasteland of debris , desolation and filth , francis said in a document released to coincide with the world day of prayer for the care of creation .
he proposed adding care for the natural world to the seven works of mercy catholics are meant to perform.francis has placed environmental causes at the heart of his papacy , denouncing what he sees as a throwaway consumer culture , financial greed and rampant , market-driven economies .
economics and politics , society and culture can not be dominated by thinking only of the short-term and immediate financial or electoral gains , he said , suggesting more ambitious action might be needed to curb climate change.francis welcomed the paris accord , but urged voters everywhere to make sure their governments did not backtrack .
it is up to citizens to insist that this happen , and indeed to advocate for even more ambitious goals , he said.he asked the world s 1 billion roman catholics to embrace a green agenda , saying defence of the environment should be added to the works of mercy that provide believers with guiding principles and duties they are meant to follow .