wellington ( reuters ) - the final opinion poll before new zealand s election on saturday showed the ruling national party s lead over the opposition labour party had slipped to 8.5 points , meaning minor parties could well decide who forms the next government .
the newshub-reid survey released on thursday showed support for prime minister bill english s national party had edged down 1.5 points to 45.8 percent , but support for labour also fell , dropping 0.5 points to 37.3 percent .
the national party has governed for the past nine years , and its re-election would hearten investors who favour continuity and like national s vow to keep the small trading economy open to foreign investment .
regardless of the polls , which have shown sharp divergences , the nationalist new zealand first party could well emerge as the kingmaker in the next parliament .
minor parties often have an outsize role in new zealand s proportional representation system , in which a party , or combination of parties , needs 61 of parliament s 120 members - usually about 48 percent of the vote - to form a government .
the newshub-reid survey showed support for new zealand first hitting 7.1 percent , as did support for the green party , which is a likely coalition partner for labour .
the tight race , with labour and the green party virtually neck-and-neck with national , meant the government might not be known for weeks .
despite all of the volatility , despite all the twists and turns of the campaign , it has come back to that simple fact ... new zealand first appears to be that crucial kingmaker , said bryce edwards , analyst at wellington-based critical politics .
outspoken new zealand first leader winston peters has said he will not confirm which bloc of parties he ll support until october 12 when the results become official .
the election was so hotly-contested that the deciding votes might be those of overseas new zealanders , whose ballots would not be released until oct. 7 .
these votes , as well as those from new zealanders who voted outside of their home area , accounted for around 12 percent of total ballots cast in the 2014 election , according to the election commission .
labour leader jacinda ardern said on wednesday that citizens living in australia , home to new zealand s largest diaspora , were very important to the election .
most new zealanders maintain a strong interest in the direction of the country , particularly when it comes to things like how we re grappling with international issues , trade issues , environmental issues - so please have your say , ardern told the australian broadcasting corporation .
the new zealand dollar - the word s 11th most traded currency in 2016 - briefly firmed to $ 0.7324 from $ 0.7312 after thursday s opinion poll , but quickly gave up most of those gains and sank to $ 0.7305 .