new delhi ( reuters ) - india is considering supplying arms to myanmar s government in a sign of strong support for a neighbor that faces criticism for its crackdown on rohingya muslims .
the arms were discussed during a visit by the chief of myanmar s navy , indian officials said on thursday .
the two sides also talked about training myanmar sailors on top of the courses taught to its army officers at elite indian defense institutions .
india s decision to discuss enhancing military cooperation with its eastern neighbor appears part of a push to counter chinese influence in the region .
it comes at a time when western countries are stepping up pressure on myanmar s government for violence against rohingya muslims in its northwestern rakhine state .
myanmar rejects the charge , saying its forces are tackling insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army who it has accused of setting fires and attacking civilians .
britain said this week it was suspending its training program for the myanmar military , demanding it take steps to end the violence against civilians .
on wednesday , the commander-in-chief of the myanmar navy admiral tin aung san met indian defence minister nirmala sitaraman and the chiefs of india s army , navy and air force .
the two sides are discussing the supply of offshore patrol boats , a military official said .
the myanmar navy chief also visited the naval ship building site in mumbai as part of the four-day trip that ends on thursday .
myanmar is a pillar of our look east policy and defense is a large part of the relationship , said the official .
in 2013 , india offered to supply equipment such as artillery guns , radars and night vision devices to myanmar s army .
since then , the focus has shifted to naval cooperation as india seeks to push back against chinese influence in the region .
the two sides are expected to increase coordinated patrols in the bay of bengal that help the two navies operate together .
the fact that the indian government is receiving a high level military officer at a time when the international community is criticizing the military sends out a signal , said k.yhome who specializes on india s neighborhood policy at the new delhi-based observer research foundation .
the message is ( that ) india is with the myanmar government so far as the rohingya issue is concerned , he said .
since the crisis erupted in rakhine last month , new delhi has been supportive of de facto leader aung saan suu kyi , condemning insurgent attacks on security forces that prompted a military crackdown against the rohingya .
only later as international criticism mounted , india expressed concern at the flight of hundreds of thousands of refugees into neighboring bangladesh .
china has also stood by the myanmar government .
this week foreign minister wang yi told u.n. secretary-general ant nio guterres that it supported myanmar s efforts to protect its national security and opposes recent violent attacks in rakhine .