al shartpon will be traveling never mind smoke and mirrors : now the justice department s civil rights division , u.s. attorney s office and the fbi will open a case into his death .
the announcement comes a day after lawyers for zachary hammond s family requested an inquiry due to what they called the substantial violations of ( the late teenager s ) civil rights and the need for a transparent and independent investigation of the seneca police department .
this investigation will run parallel to the state s investigation , the department of justice said in a statement .
because this is an ongoing matter , we are not able to comment further at this time .
here is the letter barack obama wrote following thug michael brown s death at the hands of white police officer , darren wilson : the death of michael brown is heartbreaking , and michelle and i send our deepest condolences to his family and his community at this very difficult time .
as attorney general ( eric ) holder has indicated , the department of justice is investigating the situation along with local officials , and they will continue to direct resources to the case as needed .
i know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions , but as details unfold , i urge everyone in ferguson , missouri , and across the country , to remember this young man through reflection and understanding .
we should comfort each other and talk with one another in a way that heals , not in a way that wounds .
along with our prayers , that s what michael and his family , and our broader american community , deserve .
as attorney general ( eric ) holder has indicated , the department of justice is investigating the situation along with local officials , and they will continue to direct resources to the case as needed .
i know the events of the past few days have prompted strong passions , but as details unfold , i urge everyone in ferguson , missouri , and across the country , to remember this young man through reflection and understanding .
we should comfort each other and talk with one another in a way that heals , not in a way that wounds .
along with our prayers , that s what michael and his family , and our broader american community , deserve .
the family of zachary hammond are still waiting for their letter of condolence from our race baiter in chief seneca police department have refused to name the officer involved in the shooting , despite similarities to other recent cases including the deadly shooting of samuel dubose.seneca police chief john covington , whose son has previously been arrested on drug charges , has stood by the account and insists the boy wasn t shot from behind.the shooting took place during a drug buy , set up by police , outside a hardees restaurant.officers found just 10 grams of marijuana on morton and arrested her .
the police report failed to mention the two gunshots that killed hammond.covington said the officer approached the car with his gun out , as is protocol with drug arrests.paul hammond , zachary s father , told wspa : zachary was a real person .
he s my son .
somebody has to answer .
what caused the officer to decide what he needed to do was take my 19-year-old son s life .
it s a struggle right now , every day , just not knowing .
the family s attorney eric bland told the washington post : the shots were so close in proximity to each other that it would be physically impossible unless the car was stopped and the officer came up very close to an open window .
he also commented on the lack of outcry following his death , suggesting recent police-related shootings have received more press coverage .
it s sad , but i think the reason is , unfortunately , the media and our government officials have treated the death of an unarmed white teenager differently than they would have if this were a death of an unarmed black teen .
the hypocrisy that has been shown toward this is really disconcerting .
covington s son adam was arrested and charged with misconduct in office and theft of a controlled substance after stealing 30 hydrocodone pills from a woman named peggy smith at the oconee county detention center .
via : daily mail