21st century wire says republican candidate donald j trump will be the 45th president of the united states.history has been made , as he will be the first person ever to hold office despite having no previous political or military experience trump s victory was definitive .
by breaking through the seemingly impregnable blue wall in the northern rust belt of wisconsin and michigan , trump effectively ran the table on democrat favorite hillary clinton in what pundits are calling one of the biggest political realignments in decades .
it s time for america to bind the wounds of division , said trump in front on a crowd of thousands at his acceptance speech at the hilton in downtown manhattan.trump s victory over clinton is now regarded as the most stunning upset in us political history upending the establishment s false polling and the mainstream media s collusion with the democratic party and the clinton campaign .
neither the polls or the pundits saw this coming.it s reported that hillary clinton called trump to concede the race before he addressed his supporters .
i ve just received a call from secretary clinton , said trump .
she congratulated us , it s about us , on our victory .
and i congratulated her and her family on a very , very hard-fought campaign .
i mean , she fought very hard .
hillary has worked very long and very hard over a very long period of time , and we owe her a major debt of gratitude for her service to our country .
and i mean that very sincerely .
earlier this week , trump predicted his victory , likening it to the uk s surprise brexit vote this past summer , saying it would be brexit plus plus .
after being written off by the media and the party establishment in the gop primaries , and then again in the general election , trump still managed to capture the imagination of one of the biggest insurgent voting blocks in electoral history .
before the results came in , yesterday 21wire editor patrick henningsen commented on the key to trump s success , explaining : granted , half of the american population have been conditioned to hate trump for various reasons .
but many of them are missing the key point in the trump story , just like they did in the sanders story .
trump offered millions of voters something profound : the idea that even in today s insulated political fortress that is washington dc , anything is still possible in american politics where an outsider can come in and shake up a stale and corrupt ruling class .
stay tuned for more updates.read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv