washington/moscow ( reuters ) - the united states announced sanctions on two of north korea s most prominent officials behind its ballistic missile program on tuesday , while russia reiterated an offer to mediate to ease tension between washington and pyongyang .
the new u.s. steps were the latest in a campaign aimed at forcing north korea - which has defied years of multilateral and bilateral sanctions - to abandon a weapons program aimed at developing nuclear-tipped missiles capable of hitting the united states .
treasury is targeting leaders of north korea s ballistic missile programs , as part of our maximum pressure campaign to isolate ( north korea ) and achieve a fully denuclearized korean peninsula , treasury secretary steven mnuchin said in a statement .
the move followed new united nations sanctions announced last friday in response to north korea s nov. 29 test of an icbm that pyongyang said put all of the u.s. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons .
those sanctions sought to further limit north korea s access to refined petroleum products and crude oil and its earnings from workers abroad .
north korea declared the u.n. steps to be an act of war and tantamount to a complete economic blockade .
the standoff between the united states and north korea has raised fears of a new conflict on the korean peninsula , which has remained in a technical state of war since the 1950-53 korean war ended in an armistice , not a peace treaty .
the united states has said that all options , including military ones , are on the table in dealing with north korea .
it says it prefers a diplomatic solution , but that north korea has given no indication it is willing to discuss denuclearization .
the u.s. treasury named the targeted officials as kim jong sik and ri pyong chol .
it said kim was reportedly a major figure in north korea s efforts to switch its missile program from liquid to solid fuel , while ri was reported to be a key official in its intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) development .
the largely symbolic steps block any property or interests the two might have within u.s. jurisdiction and prohibit any dealings by u.s. citizens with them .
with their ruling workers party , military and scientific credentials , the men are two of three top experts considered indispensable to north korea s rapidly developing weapons programs .
photographs and television footage show that the men are clearly among north korean leader kim jong un s favorites .
their behavior with him is sharply at variance with the obsequiousness of other senior aides , most of whom bow and hold their hands over their mouths when speaking to the young leader .
ri is one of the most prominent aides , and likely represents the workers party on the missile program , experts say .
born in 1948 , ri was partly educated in russia and promoted when kim jong un started to rise through the ranks in the late 2000s .
ri has visited china once and russia twice .
he met china s defense minister in 2008 as the air force commander and accompanied kim jong il on a visit to a russian fighter jet factory in 2011 , according to state media .
kim jong sik is a prominent rocket scientist who rose after playing a role in north korea s first successful launch of a rocket in 2012 .
he started his career as a civilian aeronautics technician , but now wears the uniform of a military general at the munitions industry department , according to experts and the south korean government .
many other details , including his age , are not known .
on tuesday , the kremlin , which has long called for the united states and north korea to negotiate , said it was ready to act as a mediator if the two sides were willing for it to play such a role .
russia s readiness to clear the way for de-escalation is obvious , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told reporters .
asked to comment on the offer , a spokesman for the u.s. state department , justin higgins , said the united states has the ability to communicate with north korea through a variety of diplomatic channels , and added : we want the north korean regime to understand that there is a different path that it can choose , however it is up to north korea to change course and return to credible negotiations .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov , who made a similar offer on monday , told u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson in a phone call on tuesday that washington s aggressive rhetoric and beefing up of its military presence in the region had heightened tension and was unacceptable , his ministry said .
lavrov underscored the need for the fastest move to the negotiating process from the language of sanctions , it said .
another u.s. state department spokesman , michael cavey , said washington remained open to talks , but the onus was on north korea to take sincere and meaningful actions toward denuclearization and refrain from further provocations .
south korea s unification ministry forecast on tuesday that north korea would look to open negotiations with the united states next year while continuing to seek recognition as a de facto nuclear power .
the united states has stressed the need for all countries , especially russia , and china - north korea s main trading partner - to fully implement sanctions , including by cutting off oil supplies .
according to chinese customs data , china exported no oil products to north korea in november , apparently going above and beyond u.n. sanctions imposed earlier in the year .
china also imported no north korean iron ore , coal or lead in november , the second full month of those trade sanctions , the data showed .
china has not disclosed its crude exports to north korea for several years , but industry sources say it still supplies about 520,000 tonnes , or 3.8 million barrels , a year to the country via an aging pipeline .
north korea also sources some of its oil from russia .
trade between north korea and china has slowed through the year , particularly after china banned coal purchases in february .
chinese exports of corn to north korea in november also slumped , down 82 percent from a year earlier to 100 tonnes , the lowest since january .
exports of rice plunged 64 percent to 672 tonnes , the lowest since march .