new york ( reuters ) - a prominent democratic donor worried about the party ’ s chances of winning the presidency emailed dozens of fans of vice president joe biden on friday , urging them to remain prepared to donate if biden jumps into the race .
the donor , bill bartmann , cited new polling showing senator bernie sanders of vermont nearly tied with the hillary clinton , eroding the 30-point lead the former secretary of state held at the end of last year .
bartmann and other party insiders are concerned that sanders , a self-proclaimed democratic socialist , is too far to the left to win against a republican in the nov. 8 presidential election .
“ we can not afford to lose the white house , ” bartmann wrote in the email , seen by reuters .
the email drew a string of affirmative responses , also seen by reuters .
biden announced in october that he would not seek the presidency , despite support from a group of backers under the name “ draft biden 2016. ” but whispers have continued among some donors who hope that biden could be convinced to run after all should clinton ’ s campaign prove fruitless .
“ my sitting on the sidelines has a lot to do with my disappointment that the vice president decided not to get in the race , ” patrick baskette , one of the recipients of bartmann ’ s email , told reuters .
baskette , a public affairs consultant in tampa , florida , was a special assistant to biden during his time as a senator .
baskette said he was not opposed to either clinton or sanders .
“ i don ’ t think that they offer the solutions to our nation ’ s future that joe biden does , ” he added .
clinton only barely squeaked out a win against sanders in the iowa caucus this week , adding to fears that she could lose a nomination that once was thought all but inevitable for her .
clinton is widely expected to lose the new hampshire primary to sanders on tuesday .
“ count me in , ” gary hindes , chief executive of the delaware bay company llc and a former chairman of the delaware democratic party , wrote on the email chain .
“ i am hoping that the stars line up right and that joe becomes the nominee , ” hindes said to reuters .
“ sanders is too far to the left , ” he added , saying clinton could be vulnerable as well .
“ my heart is with joe , ” hindes said .
( editing by richard valdmanis and leslie adler ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .