singapore/new delhi ( reuters ) - when a 17-year-old bollywood actress took to social media this week alleging she was sexually assaulted on an airplane , she appeared to catch the airline industry off-guard .
her allegations - denied by the man accused of the assault on a domestic vistara flight in india - triggered online outrage and prompted a rare police investigation .
the incident , coming shortly after facebook founder mark zuckerberg s sister randi , a silicon valley executive , said via social media that she had been a victim of sexual harassment on an alaska airlines flight , highlights a risk to airlines : they need to do more than just respond once an incident goes public and their brand comes under fire .
it s a global issue and every country has to deal with the fallout , said saj ahmad , a london-based analyst at strategic aero research .
being prepared to address passenger concerns rather than being reactive to social media complaints will arguably help address these problems in real time .
most people reuters contacted about in-flight sexual misconduct , against passengers and crew - including airlines , flight attendant unions and airline training consultants - said incidents are vastly under-reported .
last year , according to the international air transport association ( iata ) , airlines globally reported just 211 instances of inappropriate sexual behavior .
that s among 3.8 billion passengers on more than 40 million flights .
in a statement , iata said fewer than half those cases were reported to the authorities , which is why there are so few police investigations .
victims are required to press charges , the airline can t do that for them , said taylor garland , spokeswoman for the u.s. association of flight attendants .
we believe under-reporting occurs .
andrew herdman , director general of the association of asia pacific airlines , said the iata data needs to be viewed with caution as event descriptions are not always standardized and there are significant variations in the level of voluntary reporting by airlines .
with regard to incidents involving sexual harassment , ranging from verbal intimidation to actual physical assault , these are relatively rare , but always taken seriously , he said .
among nearly two dozen major airlines contacted by reuters , only japan airlines co ltd gave actual figures on incidents of sexual harassment on its flights : around 10-20 a year , with police called in on some cases .
suhaila hassan , head of cabin crew at malaysia-based budget airline airasia bhd , said there had been no reported cases of passenger-on-passenger harassment , though there were occasional instances of cabin crew being harassed .
she said it was possible some incidents were not reported to the airline .
that could be the case because of the culture .
people feel shy and embarrassed if revealed , she said .
the airlines comments fit with broader studies that estimate three of every four sexual harassment incidents in the workplace in united states go unreported .
in asia , there s less of a culture of public discourse on sexual harassment .
we tend to have a culture where ... people don t generally speak up , said jason tan , a former singapore airlines flight attendant who works as a consultant training cabin crews in asia and the middle east .
victims tend to suffer in silence .
elsamarie d silva , a former flight attendant at jet airways , now runs a website crowdsourcing cases of sexual harassment and abuse .
she said cases are under-reported in india because of the associated shame and a culture where the onus is on the victim to prove the allegations .
the time has come for indian aviation to take this more seriously , she said .
most airlines train their cabin crews to deal with a broad category of unruly passenger incidents - ranging from physical abuse and obscene behavior to verbal threats and tampering with aircraft equipment .
crews are trained in these incidents , but to a limited extent , said philip baum , managing director of green light , an aviation security training firm and consultancy .
most cabin crew security courses around the world are completed in one day .
some take two days .
there are so many scenarios , you could spend a week just going through all the types of unruly passenger .
according to iata , a third of almost 10,000 unruly passenger incidents reported last year involved intoxication .
just 2 percent were of inappropriate sexual behavior .
while such incidents are rare , our crew are highly trained to manage any situation which may be dangerous or threatening , said a spokeswoman for european budget airline easyjet .
american airlines recently decided to provide enhanced training in sexual harassment matters as part of a broader diversity and inclusion drive , a spokeswoman said , declining to give further details .
and united airlines ceo oscar munoz this week told the carrier s over 90,000 employees there was zero tolerance for sexual harassment of customers or staff , according to a memo on the airline s website , but he did not specify any extra training .
a survey by the u.s. association of flight attendants this year found a fifth of cabin crew respondents had experienced a passenger-to-passenger assault while working on a flight .
the union has expressed concern that policies related to passenger sexual misconduct are rarely highlighted .
more than half those surveyed said they had no knowledge of specific policies .
the same appears to apply in india , too , said satvik varma , a new delhi-based independent litigation lawyer .
there s no lack of regulations , he said .
what we re grappling with here is a lack of implementation and a lack of knowledge of these regulations .