paris ( reuters ) - france suggested on wednesday that the nuclear deal iran struck with world powers in 2015 could be supplemented through future consultations to include the post-2025 period and tackle iran s development of ballistic missiles .
under the deal , most international sanctions were lifted in return for iran undertaking long-term curbs on its nuclear program , which the west suspected was aimed at developing the means to build an atomic bomb .
iran agreed to mothball for at least a decade the majority of its centrifuges used to enrich uranium and sharply reduce its low-enriched uranium stockpile .
it also agreed restrictions on its ballistic missile programs for eight years .
the president ( emmanuel macron ) on aug. 29 indicated that the vienna accord could be supplemented by work for the post-2025 period ( and ) by an indispensable work on the use of ballistic missiles , foreign ministry spokeswoman agnes romatet-espagne told reporters at a daily briefing .
this work could be the object of future consultations with out partners , she said , referring to macron s comments .
the united states , britain , france and germany have complained several times to the united nations about iran s tests of ballistic missiles , which they contend are in defiance of a 2015 u.n. resolution enshrining the nuclear deal .
diplomats said macron s comments , in which he also stressed that the deal was good , came amid concerns in paris that u.s. president donald trump could walk away from the nuclear accord , which he has called the worst deal ever .
trump has ordered a review of the accord , negotiated under his predecessor barack obama , and allies including france fear washington could renege on the deal in some way and risk iranian retaliation , escalating instability in the middle east .
the vienna accord on iran s nuclear program is essential for regional and international security and non-proliferation , romatet-espagne said .
there is no credible alternative .
she added that france , which has struck several multi-billion dollar deals in iran since the 2015 agreement , neither wanted to reopen or renegotiate the accord , but to ensure it was being implemented rigorously .