madrid ( reuters ) - spain on friday sacked catalonia s regional government , dissolved the catalan parliament and called a snap election in the region for dec. 21 , in a bid to draw a line under the country s worst political crisis in 40 years .
below are several scenarios of what could happen in the next few days .
prime minister mariano rajoy sacked catalonia s government including regional president carles puigdemont and his deputy oriol junqueras and assumed direct control over the region .
central government ministries assumed the powers of the catalan administration until a regional election takes place on dec. 21 .
it is not clear whether a snap regional election will resolve the crisis .
an opinion poll published by el mundo on sunday showed that pro-independence parties may lose their parliamentary majority and even arrive behind anti-independence forces .
the vote could result into a hung parliament .
other opinion polls have also shown catalonia is almost evenly split between pro- and anti-independence supporters .
catalonia s main secessionist groups have called for widespread civil disobedience .
they also instructed civil servants not to obey orders from madrid and respond with peaceful resistance .
it is unclear whether such calls will be followed or not .
a key test will be when 200,000 civil servants return to work on monday .
[ l8n1n40zq ] spain s government said it was not planning to make any arrests , but it is unclear how it will proceed if the current regional administration staff refuse to leave their offices .
none of the immediate catalan cabinet , including puigdemont , are thought to have spent the weekend in the barcelona central offices and it is unclear if they will attempt to return to work on monday .
a growing number of analysts have feared this could lead to a physical confrontation if national police , who used heavy-handed tactics to thwart an oct. 1 vote on independence , seek to intervene .
one of the main problems over the implementation of direct rule will relate to catalonia s own police forces , the mossos d esquadra .
on saturday , the mossos chief josep lluis trapero was fired .
the new chief told officers they should remain neutral .
in an open letter on sunday , interior minister juan ignacio zoido praised the mossos for their work and urged them to accept temporary direction from madrid .
but a group of mossos favoring independence had previously said they would not follow instructions from the central government and would not use force to remove ministers and lawmakers from power .
several officers told reuters they believed the 17,000-strong force was split between those who want independence and those who oppose it .
the mossos , whose former chief is under investigation on suspicion of sedition , will have to act on direct orders from their new bosses .
if deemed necessary , mossos officers may be replaced by national police .
the economy and budget ministries took full control over regional finances on friday .
many companies have however said on condition of anonymity that they feared a new catalan treasury could start levying taxes , and that they would seek to move their tax base outside catalonia .
it is also possible that some pro-independence catalans will stop paying their taxes to the spanish treasury .
the spanish government had initially said it would control widely watched catalan public television tv3 , but it eventually dropped that plan .
the media is likely to play an important role in the run-up to the new election in catalonia .