washington ( reuters ) - making a final push toward the crucial super tuesday vote , super pacs backing republican presidential candidate ted cruz bought $ 2.4 million in advertising supporting him in eight states , the groups told reuters .
the ads purchased by keep the promise and its various offshoots include radio , television and online and are the latest effort by supporters of cruz , a u.s. senator of texas , to dislodge donald trump from the front-runner position in tuesday ’ s critical 11-state republican nominating contests .
should trump sweep the contests , it could make stopping his path to the republican nomination impossible .
the outside groups supporting the presidential candidates have already spent more than $ 5.5 million on advertising in super tuesday states , according to analysis by reuters of the spending reports filed with federal election commission as of friday morning .
super pacs are permitted to raise unlimited amounts of money from individuals and corporations , but are prohibited from coordinating with the campaigns they are supporting .
most of the super pacs have been used to fund expensive advertising budgets , while the campaigns themselves are responsible for staff and ground organization .
cruz ’ s backers are hopeful the ads will pull him ahead of trump .
cruz is locked in a tight battle in his home state of texas , where 155 delegates to be sent to the republican national convention are at stake , out of almost 600 delegates total in the states voting on super tuesday .
“ on super tuesday , voters can both send a message to washington and send a serious , proven conservative to the white house by voting for cruz , ” said kellyanne conway , president of keep the promise i , one of the groups backing cruz .
the groups spent $ 393,500 on radio ads in seven states .
they also purchased more than $ 990,0000 in television ads that will run in georgia , alabama , tennessee , arkansas and oklahoma - the most crucial states for cruz to narrow the margins with trump .
the groups also spent $ 1 million on digital ads in eight states , including minnesota , where so far none of the outside groups have bought advertising .
( reporting by ginger gibson ; editing by leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .