sharya , iraq ( reuters ) - when rosa , now 14 , asked her islamic state captors about her younger sisters bushra , 12 , and suhayla , seven , she was told they had been killed for misbehaving .
at that point , i didn t care about anything anymore .
even if i died , she said .
i never thought i d see them again .
the sisters were finally reunited on sunday , more than three years after being taken by the militants in an assault on sinjar , the yazidi heartland on august 3 , 2014 .
just last week , iraq declared final victory over islamic state , with parades through the streets of baghdad in celebration after three years of bloody war .
but the damage done by the militants is not easily remedied : they brutalized iraqis , exposing fault lines in the country s already fragile social fabric and ripping families apart .
for rosa and her family , though overjoyed at reuniting , the last three years will not be easily erased .
the militants shot , beheaded , burned alive or kidnapped more than 9,000 members of the minority religion , in what the united nations has called a genocidal campaign against them .
according to community leaders , more than 3,000 yazidis remain unaccounted for .
among them , are rosa s parents , thought murdered by the militants who rolled their victims into mass graves scattered across the sides of sinjar mountain , where thousands of yazidis still live in tents .
the girls nine-year-old brother , zinal , is also still missing .
captured and held with them in the nearby city of tal afar , he was later driven away to mosul in a car full of young yazidi boys .
they haven t heard from him since .
reuters could not verify all of the details given by rosa , bushra and some of the five older brothers they now live with in a group of tents in the tiny village of sharya in iraq s kurdistan region .
but amin khalat , spokesperson for kurdish government office which helps return missing yazidis , said rosa and suhayla had been taken to syria and turkey respectively after being held in tal afar and that his office had helped reunite them with their family .
he said rosa was returned from syria by fighters from the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) and suhayla by the iraqi government which was alerted to her existence by turkish officials who found her at a refugee camp in turkey .
her family then recognized her photograph .
rosa said she and her younger siblings were sold , by the islamic state militants who attacked sinjar , to a fighter and his family in tal afar , a city of predominantly ethnic turkmen which produced some of the group s most senior commanders .
she said she did all the household chores and cared for her siblings and other young yazidi captives , who lived together in a tiny room .
after a year together , zinal was taken to mosul , while suhayla and bushra were sold off to separate islamic state families , close to one another , but not allowed to meet .
after bushra s captors took her to rosa s house for a visit , she said she memorized the route so she could return .
i would wait till everyone fell asleep in the afternoon , i d pretend to fall asleep and then sneak out to see rosa , said bushra .
they once caught me and threatened to sell me off if i didn t stop seeing my sister but i didn t care .
bushra said she was eventually sold again , but about a year ago , she and six older yazidi girls ran away and reached sinjar , where kurdish fighters helped them find their families .
rosa was taken to deir ezzor , syria and sold twice more .
she said she was originally bought for $ 4 in tal afar and last sold in syria for $ 60 .
those dogs made quite a good profit out of me , she said with a wry smile .
pkk fighters came across her in idlib and brought her back to iraq and her family , she said .
suhayla was taken by her turkmen captors to a refugee camp in turkey , where authorities discovered her situation and repatriated her .
she was reunited with her sisters and other relatives on sunday , a day after rosa returned .
beaten , forced to convert and forget their native kurdish , the girls even had their names changed .
rosa was known as noor hers was an infidel s name , her captors told her .
suhayla , captured when she was three , barely recognizes her sisters and speaks in broken turkman dialect and arabic .
she has to learn to remember us again , said rosa .
she got used to calling some strangers mum and grandpa while she was held captive .
her sisters say suhayla has barely spoken since returning to her family , but wearing a pink sweater and plastic jewelry , she relaxed under a flood of kisses from her sisters .
bushra , nine when she was captured , is only at ease with her closest relatives .
because she returned to the family first , her brothers have asked her to help her sisters , but she warned them that it would not be easy .
it s true we are strong , we ve been through so much .
but our hearts are weak they re broken .