mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican prosecutors are failing to systematically punish money launderers and tax authorities are too lax with potential drug money fronts such as real estate and luxury goods firms , according to a draft report on mexico s efforts to fight illicit finance .
the report by the financial action task force ( fatf ) , an international organization that sets global standards for fighting illicit finance , highlights the tiny dents made by mexican prosecutors in the financial networks of drug gangs and corrupt officials .
mexico has been slipping in convictions , data in the report shows .
the country already lagged regional peers such as colombia and brazil , both of which have made strides in setting up independent prosecutors .
money laundering is not investigated and prosecuted in a proactive and systematic fashion , said the draft of the report , sections of which were seen by reuters .
its publication is set for early january .
the finance ministry and attorney general s office did not respond to a request for comment for this story .
mexico is the top source of illegal drugs to the united states and both countries authorities have been criticized by civil society groups for leaving drug gang finances largely intact .
the more than 200-page report commends efforts to clean up the mexican banking sector after u.s. investigations in the mid-2000s showed global banks processed billions of dollars in drug gang cash .
officials say tighter regulations flushed much illicit money from the banking system .
however , the report says mexican tax authorities did not do enough to monitor businesses outside the financial sector used for money laundering , such as real estate .
since 2014 , mexico s tax authority has had powers to audit more than 64,000 businesses considered high risk .
but it has only allocated 16 people to probe those companies and since 2014 they have audited just 118 , or less than 0.2 percent , the draft noted .
the lack of a national registry of shareholders has made it difficult for authorities to follow the complex money trails used by drug gangs and corrupt officials to hide ill-gotten funds , the report said .
the draft seen by reuters was hammered out at closed-door meetings in buenos aires last month .
an earlier draft prepared by a team of officials led by the international monetary fund was harsher , according to two sources familiar with the issue .
the imf did not respond to a request for comment .
the earlier draft noted poor co-ordination between financial officials , prosecutors and security forces within mexico , and flagged weak co-operation with the united states , the sources said .
however , mexican officials convinced the assessors to tone down the report , they said .
during the argentina meetings , mexico s government said in a statement that the fatf report identified areas for improvement on its efforts to combat money laundering but affirms that there is good co-ordination between authorities and extensive international co-operation .
mexico is making little headway in seizing illicit cash , according to the government s own estimates .
data in the report provided by mexico shows the country seized just $ 32.5 million in 2016 .
that represents less than 0.1 percent of the $ 58.5 billion of illicit revenues the government estimates is generated by organized crime annually .
also , fewer investigations than in previous years were based on information from the financial intelligence unit ( fiu ) , a part of the finance ministry , the report notes .
setting up sophisticated fius that target major operations is key to effectively fighting money laundering , compared to cases that stem from routine police and customs busts .
yet only 8 percent of investigations in mexico last year were based on fiu reports , according to data in the fatf report .
that is down from around an average of 15 percent in recent years .
mexico is at the bottom of major countries in terms of its efforts to fight money laundering , said edgardo buscaglia , an expert on organized crime at columbia university .
while convictions based on fiu data have grown more than fourfold in brazil and nearly sixfold in colombia since 2000 , mexico has seen the number drop , according to data compiled by buscaglia that runs through 2015 .
the financial intelligence unit is not engaging the criminal networks , buscaglia said .
they are not passing the right kind of data .