gandhinagar , india ( reuters ) - the leaders of india and japan agreed on thursday to deepen defense ties and push for more cooperation with australia and the united states , as they seek to counter growing chinese influence across asia .
prime minister shinzo abe arrived this week in his counterpart narendra modi s home state , skipping the tradition of visiting the capital of new delhi , for the tenth meeting between two leaders since modi came to power in 2014 .
relations have deepened between asia s second and third largest economies as abe and modi , who enjoy a close personal relationship , increasingly see eye-to-eye to balance china as the dominant asian power .
almost everything that takes place during the visit , including economic deals , will in part be done with china in mind , eurasia analysts said in a note .
abe s visit comes days after new delhi and beijing agreed to end the longest and most serious military confrontation along their shared and contested border in decades , a dispute that had raised worries of a broader conflict between the asian giants .
in a lengthy joint statement , india and japan said deepening security links was paramount .
this included collaboration on research into unmanned ground vehicles and robotics and the possibility of joint field exercises between their armies .
there was also renewed momentum for cooperation with the united states and australia .
earlier this year , india rejected an australian request to be included in four-country naval drills for fear of angering beijing .
relations between india and japan are not only a bilateral relationship but have developed into a strategic global partnership , abe told reporters in gandhinagar , the capital of western gujarat state .
we ( india and japan ) will strengthen our collaboration with those countries with whom we share universal values .
abe flew to gujarat to lay the foundation stone of a $ 17 billion bullet train project , india s first , that was made possible by a huge japanese loan .
tokyo wants to win other high-speed rail lines india plans to build , to edge out chinese ambitions to do the same and provide a boost for its high-end manufacturers .
the visit was light on specific announcements , but india said it welcomed proposals for increased japanese investment into infrastructure projects in its remote northeast , a region new delhi sees as its gateway to southeast asia .
china claims part of india s northeast as its own territory .
japanese investment into the northeast would give legs to our act east policy , indian foreign secretary s. jaishankar told reporters .
modi and abe also said they would push for more progress on the development of industrial corridors for the growth of asia and africa .
analysts say the planned $ 40 billion asia-africa growth corridor takes direct aim at china s belt and road project , envisaged as a modern-day silk road connecting china by land and sea across asia and beyond to the middle east , europe and africa .