washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump proposed on wednesday the biggest u.s. tax overhaul in three decades , calling for tax cuts for most americans , but prompting criticism that the plan favors business and the rich and could add trillions of dollars to the deficit .
the proposal drew a swift , skeptical response from senator bob corker , a leading republican “ fiscal hawk , ” who vowed not to vote for any federal tax package financed with borrowed money .
“ what i can tell you is that i ’ m not about to vote for any bill that increases our deficit , period , ” corker , who said on tuesday he would not seek re-election in 2018 , told reporters .
trump said his tax plan was aimed at helping working people , creating jobs and making the tax code simpler and fairer .
but it faces an uphill battle in the u.s. congress with trump ’ s own republican party divided over it and democrats hostile .
the plan would lower corporate and small-business income tax rates , reduce the top income tax rate for high-earning american individuals and scrap some popular tax breaks , including one that benefits people in high-tax states dominated by democrats .
forged during months of talks among trump ’ s aides and top congressional republicans , the plan contained few details on how to pay for the tax cuts without expanding the budget deficit and adding to the nation ’ s $ 20 trillion national debt .
the plan still must be turned into legislation , which was not expected until after congress makes progress on the fiscal 2018 budget , perhaps in october .
it must then be debated by the republican-led congressional tax-writing committees .
analysts were skeptical that congress could approve a tax bill this year , but that is what republicans hope to achieve so they can enter next year ’ s congressional election campaigns with at least one legislative achievement to show for 2017 .
financial markets rallied on the plan ’ s unveiling , an event long anticipated by traders betting that stocks would benefit from both faster economic growth and inflation .
at an event in indianapolis , trump called the plan the largest tax cut in u.s. history .
“ we want tax reform that is pro-growth , pro-jobs , pro-worker , pro-family and , yes , tax reform that is pro-american , ” he said .
the real estate mogul-turned-politician , who promised big tax cuts as a candidate , told reporters he personally would not gain financially from the proposal .
“ i think there ’ s very little benefit for people of wealth , ” said trump , who unlike many of his white house predecessors , has refused to make public his own tax returns .
republicans have produced no major legislative successes since trump took office in january , even though they control the white house and both chambers of congress .
their top legislative priority , overhauling the u.s. healthcare system , collapsed again in the senate on tuesday .
a comprehensive rewrite of the u.s. tax code has eluded previous presidents and congress for decades .
the last one was passed in 1986 under republican president ronald reagan .
trump ’ s plan falls short of the sweeping , bipartisan package crafted by reagan and congressional democrats , analysts said .
the white house said that , under the proposal , typical middle-class families would have less income subject to federal tax .
trump said the first $ 12,000 earned by an individual and the first $ 24,000 by a married couple would be tax-free .
the plan would lower the top individual tax rate , paid by the nation ’ s top earners , to 35 percent from 39.6 percent .
it would lower the top corporate income tax rate to 20 percent from the current 35 percent .
the existing rate is high globally , but many u.s.-based multinationals pay much less than the headline rate because of abundant loopholes and tax breaks .
trump has appealed to democrats to back the plan , although they were not consulted in drafting it .
republicans hold a thin 52-48 senate majority and may need some democratic support to win passage .
but democrats said the plan would expand the federal deficit in order to deliver tax cuts to wealthy americans rather than the middle-class families that trump and republicans say they are trying to help .
“ if this framework is all about the middle class , then trump tower is middle-class housing , ” said senator ron wyden , the top democrat on the tax law-writing senate finance committee .
republican kevin brady , chairman of the tax-writing house of representatives ways and means committee , said he expected tax legislation to be passed by the end of this year .
the committee for a responsible federal budget , a washington-based policy group , estimated on wednesday the plan contained about $ 5.8 trillion of total tax cuts over a decade and would have a net cost of $ 2.2 trillion through 2027 .
analysts have warned huge tax cuts would balloon the deficit if economic growth projected by republicans to offset the costs fails to materialize amid rising interest rates .
‘ pass-through ’ rate the plan would set a new 25 percent tax rate for “ pass-through ” businesses , which are usually small , private enterprises , such as partnerships and sole proprietorships .
they represent about 95 percent of all u.s. businesses .
under current law , the profits of those companies “ pass through ” directly to their owners and are taxed as personal income , often at the top 39.6 percent individual income rate .
cutting that to 25 percent could mean big tax savings for small-business owners , but also be vulnerable to abuse by other individuals and companies , analysts said .
republicans proposed eliminating some tax deductions .
they did not target the popular ones for mortgage interest and charitable giving , but called for scrapping the one for state and local tax payments .
that could especially hurt people in high-tax states like california and new york .
in a step to simplify tax returns , the plan would shrink the current seven tax brackets to three : 12 percent , 25 percent and 35 percent .
that would raise the bottom tax rate on low-earning americans to 12 percent from 10 percent , but analysts said other parts of the plan would still mean a net tax cut .