brighton , england ( reuters ) - britain could stay in a customs union with the european union after leaving the bloc if labour win power , the main opposition party said on monday , putting pressure on prime minister theresa may s divided government over brexit .
labour s brexit spokesman keir starmer said the party was ready to be the grown-ups in the room and take charge of negotiations to leave the eu , cautioning against taking anything off the table when looking at britain s future ties with the eu .
after months of sticking to a position little different from the conservative party s pursuit of a clean break with the eu , labour changed tack last month by suggesting that , if in power , it would press for remaining in the eu s single market for a transition period to smooth britain s departure in march 2019 .
starmer s words took that position further .
if we were in government ... we would negotiate a final deal ... that retained the benefits of the customs union and the single market , starmer told hundreds of labour members in the southern english seaside town of brighton .
subject , of course to negotiations , remaining in a form of customs union with the eu is a possible end destination for labour .
he later told an event that rather than taking an off-the-shelf arrangement for future trade with the eu in a final deal , he wanted to pursue the harder challenge of trying to win a changed relationship with the single market that keeps free trade but not membership , possibly by signing a new treaty .
but while challenging may s vision for brexit , the move also could deepen divisions in labour , putting those who want the close economic ties of a customs union at odds with others who say the referendum vote means complete withdrawal .
steve baker , a conservative minister working on brexit , criticized labour for having no plan for brexit , no interest in controlling our borders and no desire to make the most of the opportunities it will bring .
after britain voted to leave the european union last year , divisions over what brexit will look like have split both parties and the country , revealing deep differences between the south and more industrial north of england , between young and old and between urban voters and those in rural areas .
while scotland and northern ireland voted to remain , england and wales voted to leave .
labour and the conservatives have both struggled to keep their parties together on brexit strategy , but by aiming for what some call a softer departure , the leftist party hopes to offer a catch-all option to voters across the divide .
while labour said it offered flexibility , may s government counters that staying in the customs union , which imposes tariffs on trade with external countries while allowing tariff-free movement of goods , would betray the brexit vote and stop britain from agreeing trade deals with other countries .
no rash , ideological red lines preventing a sensible deal .
no fantastical , blue sky proposals .
a pragmatic approach .
labour are now the grown-ups in the room .
we stand ready to take charge of the negotiations , starmer said .
labour is riding high since winning more seats than expected in a june election , when may s attempt to win a stronger hand in the brexit negotiations failed and lost her conservatives their majority .
the party has capitalized on divisions in may s cabinet , saying britain has run out of time , largely because of that election , to negotiate a bespoke deal for transition .
the way the tories ( conservatives ) are handling brexit tells you a lot about their competence - or should i say incompetence , starmer said .
labour s move has attracted remain voters from last year s referendum , but the party is keen not to lose its supporters , mostly in northern england , who backed brexit and have been reticent on how they see the future relationship with the bloc .
but at its conference , packed with younger voters who have flocked to leader jeremy corbyn as someone who can bring change , labour members voted to debate issues other than brexit , meaning a public discussion of eu policy was not on the official agenda .
some more centrist members , part of a labour first grouping , called it an unprincipled and anti-democratic stitch-up aimed at stopping differences of opinion from being exposed .
others said they would press their fight to force labour to commit to staying in the eu s single market and customs union .
it is now even more vital that as we go forward we put clear red water between the labour party and the government on brexit , pro-eu labour lawmaker chuka umunna said .
for me and many others , that means committing to full and permanent membership of the single market and customs union .
we will continue to make this argument .