tokyo ( reuters ) - u.s. presidential candidate donald trump ’ s portrayal of japan as a free-rider on security is stirring worries in tokyo about damage to its u.s. alliance , and could embolden hardliners keen to bolster japan ’ s military in the face of a rising china .
the u.s.-japan alliance has been the lynchpin of tokyo ’ s security policy for decades , but worries have simmered in recent years as to whether washington will continue to be willing and able to defend its key asian ally .
comments from the republican party frontrunner have done little to allay those fears .
“ if somebody attacks japan , we have to immediately go and start world war iii , okay ?
if we get attacked , japan doesn ’ t have to help us , ” trump said at a campaign speech late last year .
“ somehow , that doesn ’ t sound so fair. ” trump has also accused japan of stealing jobs and criticized the u.s.-led 12-nation trans-pacific partnership trade pact that tokyo sees as vital for strategic as well as economic reasons .
“ if you listen to his comments ( on security ) , the united states would become isolated so i think there is great anxiety for allied countries , ” itsunori onodera , who served as defense minister under prime minister shinzo abe , told reuters .
last year , abe spent considerable political capital enacting controversial legislation that allows japan ’ s military to defend friendly countries under attack , a major reinterpretation of the country ’ s pacifist constitution .
“ it is incumbent on japan to protect itself and its defense is necessary for the alliance to be maintained in the best possible posture , ” said a source close to abe .
abe also wants to formally revise the post-war charter to further loosen limits on military action overseas .
“ most people consider trump bad news , but for those who want to revise the constitution and strengthen the military , it actually provides a boost for their position , ” said a former western diplomat still in touch with japanese policymakers .
as host to around 50,000 u.s. troops , japan is vital to washington ’ s “ rebalance ” of its economic and security focus to the asia-pacific region .
trump did not respond to requests for comments about the u.s.-japan alliance .
both washington and tokyo are alarmed by china ’ s increasing assertiveness in the south china sea , where beijing has territorial rows with several southeast asian nations .
japan has a separate dispute with china over tiny islands in the east china sea .
like many trump observers around the world , japanese policy makers at first watched with amusement and then disbelief as the reality tv star and property tycoon garnered growing momentum .
only in recent weeks have they begun taking trump ’ s chances seriously and are now scrambling to find out who is advising him on security , another government source said .
japanese policymakers have not geared up specifically to counter what they see as his misleading rhetoric , which seems to hark back to an outdated 1980s vision of japan , the source close to abe said .
“ i think it ’ s too early .
number one , he has not made it known even to the american voters whom he counts on as far as foreign policy goals , ” the source said , adding they expected trump would change if elected .
“ we are fully aware campaign rhetoric is dramatically different from real policies pursued by incumbents. ” for now , though , japanese government insiders say they are betting that if trump becomes the republican nominee and goes on to win the nov. 8 presidential election , he would surround himself with experts who would draft more realistic policies .
publicly , japan is playing it politely .
asked about trump ’ s candidacy on wednesday , japanese chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters : “ we are of course watching this because of the impact such a large country has , but we can not otherwise comment on another country ’ s election . ”