donald trump is not the negotiator he would like everyone to believe he is but he is accomplished in the art of deflection .
but , for every instance of trying to deflect on an issue , such as his russia scandal , there is an old tweet to confirm what the former reality show star is really up to .
trump is very sensitive about his dismal poll numbers and his unpopularity has affected him so much that in the past he s tried to claim that he won the popular vote .
trump is 200 days into his presidency and he s losing the support of his own base and his social media use isn t helping him .
in january , 73 percent of republicans strongly approved of trump , but now it s down 59 percent , according to the latest poll .
trump is also losing the support of white americans without a college degree.so , what s an amateur president going to do about it ?
he ll start a nuclear war on twitter , of course.in late 2015 , trump tweeted , polls are starting to look really bad for obama .
looks like he ll have to start a war or major conflict to win .
don t put it past him !
polls are starting to look really bad for obama .
looks like he 'll have to start a war or major conflict to win .
do n't put it past him !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) october 17 , 2012twitter users took notice of his old tweet.these tweets age so nicely .
like a fine scotch .
opinion junkie ( @ brass_monkey_1 ) august 11 , 2017everything trump accuses someone else of doing , he is actually the perpetrator .
pic.twitter.com/p1drzpdsmo mydelayedrxn2life ( @ brainbriefs ) august 11 , 2017fixed ! updated for 2017 # nostrotrumpus pic.twitter.com/mampp7ikd1 305 pirate ?
( @ 305pirate ) august 11 , 2017there 's a hypocritical tweet for every one of @ potus commentaries .
patriotic moose & lamb ( @ ginokusa ) august 11 , 2017and then there s this old tweet coming back to haunt trump.nostradumb * ss pic.twitter.com/qqs9n8ijlv r. saddler ?
( @ politics_pr ) august 10 , 2017trump tweeted recently that , only the fake news media and trump enemies want me to stop using social media ( 110 million people ) but according to the latest cnn poll , his use of twitter is alienating many americans .
a majority of respondents said that trump s tweets are often misleading ; 71 percent said that they are a risky way for a president to communicate and since that poll was taken , the former reality show star has tried to start a nuclear war , all because of his awful poll numbers.featured image via win mcnamee/getty images