geneva ( reuters ) - the conviction of former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic for genocide and crimes against humanity serves as a warning to others such as syrian president bashar al-assad , the united nations human rights chief said on wednesday .
earlier on wednesday the u.n. criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) found mladic guilty of the slaughter of 8,000 muslim men and boys at srebrenica and for the siege of the bosnian capital sarajevo , in which more than 10,000 civilians were killed by shelling and snipers over 43 months .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein , who worked for the united nations in the former yugoslavia in the 1990s , told reuters he had waited a long time for the life sentence handed down against mladic .
mladic is the epitome of evil and the prosecution of mladic is the epitome of international justice , zeid said in an interview in his geneva office .
noting that mladic is now 74 but was in his 50s at the time of his crimes , zeid said the case showed justice would catch up with other leaders who trampled over human rights .
the passage of time is no protection .
eventually i hope all those who have authored these appalling atrocities across the world will be held accountable before a court of law and there will be justice for the victims of those particular crimes .
pressed on whether that would include assad , he said : yes .
it s very clear to us that what happened in syria recently and not limited to syria , in many parts of the world , were so grotesque that if a court of law on the basis of evidence were to prosecute senior leaders then you would expect that some of them would be held responsible .
assad and his government deny committing rights abuses and say they are engaged in a legitimate struggle against terrorist groups including islamic state .
trials are led by evidence , zeid said .
and so whatever trials are mounted in the future , if the evidence leads to the very senior rungs of leadership , then you would indeed hope this takes place .
in the end there is justice , he added .
u.n. war crimes investigators documenting massacres and other atrocities in syria have accused all sides of grave crimes including the government s use of chemical weapons against civilians more than two dozen times , as well as executions , torture and rapes .
paulo pinheiro , chairman of the u.n. commission of inquiry on syria , said last year that the scale of deaths in prisons indicated that the assad government was responsible for extermination as a crime against humanity .
syria s civil war , now in its seventh year , has killed hundreds of thousands of people and created the world s worst refugee crisis , driving more than 11 million people from their homes .