washington ( reuters ) - african countries should do more to pile pressure on south sudan s political leaders , who seem incapable of resolving the country s four-year civil war , a top u.s. diplomat said on wednesday .
we think there is more our african colleagues can and should be doing at this point , especially in terms of focusing on leadership , that from our point of view is behaving in a way that is very irresponsible , tom shannon , u.s. under-secretary for political affairs at the state department , told reporters .
shannon , speaking on the sidelines of a u.s-african partnerships event at the u.s. institute of peace , said washington had grown intolerant of south sudan s leaders and the challenge was to work with african countries which are interested in seeing an end to the conflict .
this is a manmade conflict of horrific dimensions , which is about political leaders measuring each other through force at the cost of their populations , said shannon .
his remarks come after the new usaid administrator , mark green , traveled to juba on sept. 2 to meet with south sudan s president salva kiir and deliver a message from washington that the united states was reviewing its relationship with his government .
the trump administration last week imposed sanctions on two senior south sudanese officials and the former army chief for their role in the conflict , atrocities against civilians and attacks against international missions in south sudan .
south sudan became the world s newest nation when it gained independence from sudan in 2011 .
war broke out in late 2013 and more than a quarter of its population of 12 million have fled their homes .
a confidential report by the united nations last week said competing efforts to end south sudan s civil war were allowing kiir s government to exploit divisions among the international brokers .
east african leaders said in june they want the warring sides to recommit to a peace deal they abandoned more than a year ago .
.
among the international bodies trying to end the conflict are regional block igad , the u.n. security council , a troika of south sudan s main western backers prior to independence and an african union panel .