brussels ( reuters ) - european commission head jean-claude juncker has invited the leaders of four eastern european countries to a dinner , according to a letter seen by reuters , in an effort to ease tensions between them and wealthier western member states .
in his letter , dated oct. 2 and addressed to the leaders of poland , hungary , the czech republic and slovakia , juncker stressed the paramount importance of eu unity , strained by disputes over immigration and other issues as well as by brexit .
while prague and bratislava have sometimes struck a more moderate tone , warsaw and budapest have constantly been at loggerheads with the bloc s executive commission in brussels , as well as with eu heavyweights germany and france , over what the bloc increasingly sees as their flouting of democratic rules .
juncker proposed a dinner with the leaders of the four visegrad group nations in brussels on oct. 18 , ahead of an eu summit on oct. 19-20 , citing the need to build a more united , stronger and more democratic europe despite britain s exit .
i believe that preserving the unity of the ( remaining ) 27 in this process is of paramount importance , he said .
the eastern states , especially poland and hungary , have resisted an eu program for all member states to accept refugees after a mass influx of people in 2015-16 , mostly muslims from the middle east and africa .
other points of contention include a reform of eu s labor rules , which france and some other western states say give unfair competitive advantage to cheap workers from the east .
some western countries , notably italy - on the frontline of taking in refugees and migrants from across the mediterranean - have suggested cutting the generous aid provided to the easterners through the eu budget if they fail to show european solidarity over migration .
slovak prime minister robert fico s recent reassurances that his country , a member of the single-currency euro zone , sees itself firmly at the heart of the eu seem to have gone down well in brussels .
the commission has responded by saying it would work with slovakia and other eastern member states in tackling what they see as the malpractice of second-class food products being sold by big western multinationals on their home markets .
soothing relations with poland and hungary , however , will prove more challenging .
poland , led by the eurosceptic law and justice party ( pis ) , is under an unprecedented eu investigation over the rule of law following a series of reforms that critics say threaten the independence of the polish judiciary .
the eu also faces a tough challenge agreeing its next multi-year budget that runs from 2021 , with generous handouts to the eastern nations under particular threat as britain , a leading net donor , prepares to leave the bloc in 2019 .
after pro-eu centrist emmanuel macron won the french presidency this year , brussels hopes a reinvigorated paris-berlin alliance can help usher in reforms needed for the bloc to thrive despite brexit .
the franco-german axis is promising to be the strongest in years .
they ( the easterners ) either play along that or they lose , a senior eu diplomat said .