george soros seems to be sticking his nose into everything to do with the 2016 election .
now we have the chairman of the firm responsible for the online voting on tuesday involved with soros .
he s a board member of soros s open society foundation .
how in the world could the republicans let this happen ?
it makes you think the republican party is in the camp of the dems .
this is not good !
smartmatic group , an electronic voting firm whose worldwide headquarters is located in the united kingdom , will be running the online balloting process in the utah republican open caucuses on tuesday.the chairman of smartmatic s board , lord mark malloch-brown , currently serves on the board of george soros s open society foundation and has close ties to the billionaire.the wall street journal dubbed the republican party s online adventure on tuesday as one of the biggest online votes conducted so far in the u.s. and the largest experiment with online presidential voting since 2004 , when michigan allowed democrats to vote in a party caucus via the internet .
utah residents will have the option of casting ballots in the republican presidential contest using computers , tablets , and smartphones next week .
online polls will be open between 7:00 a.m. and 11 p.m. on march 22 .
voters will get a receipt that will verify that their vote was recorded correctly .
the state party declined to release the number of online voter registrations that it has received .
we expect all the jurisdictions across the u.s. to take notice and to look at this experience as something to study and , hopefully , follow , said antonio mugica , founder and chief executive of smartmatic group , an election-equipment vendor that is running the utah election.mugica addressed security concerns about online voting , telling the journal that smartmatic has security protocols and backups of the election data should a recount be needed .
he said he wasn t aware of any security breaches.the journal did not cite the biography of malloch-brown , chairman of smartmatic s board .
that biography is posted openly on smartmatic s website , and shows close associations between malloch-brown and soros , a major donor to the democratic party and hundreds of liberal and radical-left groups.the bio states : mark malloch-brown is a former number two in the united nations as well as having served in the british cabinet and foreign office .
he now sits in the house of lords and is active both in business and in the non-profit world .
he also remains deeply involved in international affairs.mark served as deputy secretary-general and chief of staff of the un under kofi annan .
for six years before that he was administrator of the undp , leading the un s development efforts around the world .
he was later minister of state in the foreign office , covering africa and asia , and was a member of gordon brown s cabinet.other positions have included vice-chairman of george soros s investment funds , as well as his open society institute , a vice-president at the world bank and the lead international partner at sawyer miller , a political consulting firm .
he also has served as vice-chairman of the world economic forum .
he began his career as a journalist at the economist.besides formerly serving as vice-chairman of soros s investment funds and the billionaire s open society institute , malloch-brown is currently a global board member of soros s open society foundation.read more : breitbart