toronto ( reuters ) - the number of asylum seekers walking across the u.s. border into canada illegally dropped by more than two-thirds in september from august , government data showed on monday , as officials seek to dispel myths around the country s refugee system .
the decline , to 1,881 from 5,712 , brings the total number of border-crossers so far this year to 15,102 - the vast majority entering the primarily french-speaking province of quebec .
the influx prompted the creation of a temporary tent encampment in quebec and sparked a backlash from anti-migrant groups .
september s drop comes after a push by canada s federal government to correct misinformation in diaspora communities in the united states that canada gives all refugee applicants permanent resident status .
canada received almost 36,000 refugee claims in the first nine months of the year , putting the country on track to have more claims this year than any since 2001 .
preliminary numbers indicate many asylum seekers are succeeding in their refugee claims , which means they have a well-founded fear of persecution in their home countries .
lawyers who have handled dozens of cases told reuters that decision-makers , previously skeptical of claims from people who spent time in the united states , have been sympathetic toward clients who say they left fearing president donald trump s immigration crackdown .
acceptance rates in the first half of this year were in keeping with previous years .
of the 300 asylum seekers processed since sept. 5 by the immigration and refugee board s dedicated team in quebec , between 165 and 177 have been accepted , according to spokeswoman anna pape .
that success rate is higher than previous years averages for haitians , who make up the majority of asylum seekers who crossed into quebec illegally this summer .
a lot of assumptions have been made about the refugee claimants arriving in recent months , said canadian council for refugees executive director janet dench .
we are not surprised to find that a significant proportion are found to be refugees .
the number of refugee hearings delayed due to lack of people to hear the case or places to hold the hearing rose tenfold within a year , according to refugee board statistics .
it will take an estimated 16 months for claims now in the queue to be decided , pape said leaving asylum seekers in limbo as they try to establish lives in canada .
immigration and refugee minister ahmed hussen said earlier this month the government has no plans to boost the refugee board s resources .