tbilisi ( reuters ) - kakha kaladze climbed to the top of world soccer as a defender for italian club ac milan , and now his career is taking another turn : he wants to become the mayor of the capital city in his native country of georgia .
kaladze , now 39 and running as a candidate for the ruling georgian dream party , has an advantage over the other seven candidates in the field as one of ex-soviet georgia s most recognizable public figures .
he told reuters after a campaign event he considered his career in sport was good preparation for politics .
it taught him about teamwork .
every time when i talk about success in politics or in sport , i stress how important it is to have a team of professionals , he said .
kaladze has more than 30 percent support among likely voters , the national democratic institute said in a report this month more than any other candidates .
his closest competitor is likely to be zaal udumashvili , a well-known former television anchor who is representing the united national movement , an opposition party .
the result may have to be decided in a second round run-off .
some voters see kaladze as the favorite , in part because he has the backing of bidzina ivanishvili , the founder of the georgian dream party and georgia s richest man .
i m sure kaladze will be elected as a mayor , said nugzar malkhazashvili , a 47-year-old doctor and resident of the georgian capital , tbilisi .
kaladze s soccer career included a spell at ukrainian club dynamo kyiv , then a period at ac milan during which the club were italian league champions once and won the uefa champions league twice .
he finished his career at another italian club , genoa , before retiring in 2011 .
kaladze was also a successful businessman , owning a handful of investments in georgia , ukraine , italy and kazakhstan .
he entered politics in the year he retired , becoming an active supporter of ivanishvili .
he has served as energy minister and deputy prime minister in governments dominated by ivanishvili s allies .
in the race for mayor of the georgian capital he has promised to solve problems with traffic by building new roads and overpasses , improve ecology by constructing new parks and green zones and to address education and healthcare problems .
he said he was already looking beyond the election , and focusing on how he will fulfill his promises .
i don t see october 21 ( the election day ) as a problem .
i anticipate difficulties after october 21 .
we will have serious challenges , but i hope that we will overcome all difficult barriers , kaladze told reuters .