like we didn t know this already but now we have a firm account of media efforts to bury trump .
the globalists and media are having a hissy fit because the people are rising up against another term for obama on steroids .
yes , hillary wants even more freebies for the masses .
who s gon na pay for it ?
you ! glenn greenwald of the intercept , formerly of the guardian newspaper , laid out in an interview with slate magazine that the media in the united states has decided to band together in a last-ditch effort to stop the rise of 2016 gop presidential nominee donald j. trump.greenwald , the progressive journalist who broke the edward snowden mass government surveillance storyline , was asked what he thought about donald trump s press conference recently in which trump joked that russia should release any emails it has from 2016 democratic presidential nominee hillary rodham clinton s illicit private home-brew email server from her time as president barack obama s secretary of state .
what did you think of trump s press conference ?
you ve gone after people who you thought were smearing those denying a trump-russia connection , and you ve used the word mccarthyite to describe them .
but now trump has encouraged the russians to find or release more hillary clinton emails , slate asked greenwald .
in his response , greenwald detailed how the media in the united states has decided to bloc together against trump s candidacy for the presidency : ok , so , i am glad you asked about that because this is the conflict that i am currently having : the u.s. media is essentially 100 percent united , vehemently , against trump , and preventing him from being elected president .
i don t have an actual problem with that because i share the premises on which it is based about why he poses such extreme dangers .
but that doesn t mean that as a journalist , or even just as a citizen , that i am willing to go along with any claim , no matter how fact-free , no matter how irrational , no matter how dangerous it could be , in order to bring trump down.greenwald bashed the new york times for pushing , in his words , unmitigated bullsh * t. read more : breitbart