beijing ( reuters ) - china has denied responsibility for alleged cyber attacks in the united states appearing to target exiled tycoon guo wengui , who has levelled corruption allegations against senior communist party officials and applied for political asylum .
the ministry of public security said in a statement provided to reuters on sunday an investigation had found no evidence of chinese government involvement in the alleged cyber attacks .
the law enforcement agency said china had also provided the u.s. government with evidence that guo , who has applied for political asylum in the united states , fabricated documents used to support his claims .
it said china would make an official request for u.s. authorities to investigate the matter .
the falsified official documents and the false information he fabricated are sensational and outrageous , the ministry said in a rare english-language statement .
guo denied the documents were forged and said the ministry of public security s statement should not be believed .
the washington-based hudson institute think tank was scheduled to host guo last wednesday in a rare public appearance , but canceled the event the day before without explanation .
the event would have coincided with the visit of an official chinese delegation to the u.s. capital for a high-level law enforcement and cyber security dialogue between the two countries .
the hudson institute said it had detected a shanghai-based attack aimed at shutting down access to its website several days earlier .
the suspected attack was raised by u.s. attorney general jeff sessions during a meeting with china s public security minister guo shengkun on wednesday , a department of justice spokesman told reuters on sunday .
china had pledged to cooperate , the spokesman said .
however , the new york-based guo wengui said : just because the ministry of public security said china didn t do it doesn t make it true .
why did the u.s. raise it in their meeting ?
he told reuters .
guo wengui applied for u.s. political asylum in september , but said this week the law firm representing him , clark hill plc , had backed out after being targeted by chinese hackers .
clark hill lawyer thomas ragland , who lodged the asylum claim , confirmed he was no longer representing guo wengui , without elaborating .
guo wengui held a news conference at the national press club on thursday , after his hudson event was called off , where he produced what he claimed were top secret official documents showing china had sent secret agents into the united states .
china s ministry of public security said the documents shown by him were clumsily forged and full of obvious mistakes .
guo wengui has made wide-ranging corruption allegations against senior communist party leaders through a daily stream of twitter and youtube posts since the start of the year , which he says are aimed at disrupting a key five-yearly communist party congress that begins next week .
the chinese government has been seeking to discredit guo wengui , who is the subject of an interpol red notice issued at beijing s request , as a criminal suspect who should not be trusted .