( reuters ) - billionaire investor warren buffett denied on monday an allegation by republican presidential candidate donald trump that he , like trump , had taken “ a massive deduction ” that allowed him to avoid federal income taxes .
buffett said he paid about $ 1.85 million in income tax in 2015 , and that returns for previous years were similar in respect to contributions , deductions and tax rates .
buffett said he was being audited by the internal revenue service , but had “ no problem ” releasing his tax information .
trump has refused to release his tax returns , citing ongoing audits by the irs .
“ i have paid federal income tax every year since 1944 , when i was 13 , ” buffett said in a statement , adding that “ being a slow starter , i owed only $ 7 in tax that year. ” buffett , ranked the world ’ s third-richest person by forbes magazine , said he had copies of all 72 of his returns “ and none uses a carryforward. ” responding to an oct. 1 new york times story , trump acknowledged during the presidential-candidates ’ debate on sunday that he had used investment losses to avoid paying taxes .
trump repeatedly said he was only taking advantage of tax provisions used by wealthy people who support clinton .
“ i absolutely used it , and so did warren buffett ... ” , he said .
the times reported that trump ’ s declared loss of $ 916 million in 1995 was so large that he could legally have avoided paying any federal income taxes for up to 18 years .
buffett , chairman of berkshire hathaway inc ( brka.n ) , said his 2015 tax return showed adjusted gross income of $ 11,563,931 .
“ my deductions totaled $ 5,477,694 , of which allowable charitable contributions were $ 3,469,179 .
all but $ 36,037 of the remainder was for state income taxes , ” he said .
“ the total charitable contributions i made during the year were $ 2,858,057,970 , of which more than $ 2.85 billion were not taken as deductions and never will be .
tax law properly limits charitable deductions , ” buffett said .
buffett said he had no problem releasing his tax information while under audit .
“ neither would mr trump – at least he would have no legal problem . ”