gaza ( reuters ) - the egypt-gaza border opened under control of the western-backed palestinian authority for the first time since 2007 on saturday , raising residents hopes for easier passage in and out of the impoverished enclave .
an egyptian-brokered reconciliation deal last month formally restored palestinian president abbas s administrative control of gaza , including its border crossings with israel and egypt , after a 10-year schism with islamist hamas .
palestinians hope the pact will ease gaza s economic woes and help them present a united front in their drive for statehood , although the details of implementation of the deal have yet to be worked out fully .
citing security concerns , egypt and israel maintain tight restrictions at their gaza borders .
hamas , regarded by the west as a terrorist group , seized the enclave in 2007 after fighting forces loyal to abbas .
hamas quit positions at three gaza crossings and handed them over to palestinian authority employees on nov. 1 , in a step seen as vital to encouraging israel and egypt to ease their restrictions on the movement of goods and people .
witnesses said at least five buses loaded with passengers crossed over to the egyptian side of the rafah border crossing on saturday .
hamas-appointed policemen had checked travellers documents in a separate hall outside rafah .
egypt has not yet signaled any change to its present policy under which it opens the border crossing three times a week .
palestinians are hoping the crossing will operate full-time , as it had been doing until 2007 .
about 30,000 gazans have applied for entry to egypt in the past few months , according to the palestinian interior ministry .
egypt will host further talks with hamas , fatah and other factions next week on nov. 21 to discuss major reconciliation issues , including security arrangements and a possible date for palestinian presidential and parliamentary elections .
responsibility for security remains an open issue in gaza , where hamas , which still polices the territory , has what analysts say are at least 25,000 well-equipped fighters .
the group refuses to disarm , as demanded by israel and the united states .