washington ( reuters ) - the united states and six gulf nations have targeted 13 individuals they say are al qaeda and islamic state militants , in an action intended to disrupt terrorism financing in yemen , u.s. administration officials said on wednesday .
among those targeted are the militant group s chief financial officer in yemen and head of assassinations in that country .
the action puts those named on a business blacklist , which prohibits any financial actions and freezes their bank accounts .
the nations joining the united states in the sanctions were saudi arabia , the united arab emirates ( uae ) , bahrain , oman , kuwait and qatar .
this is the largest ever multilateral designation in the middle east , u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said in riyadh on wednesday .
u.s. administration officials said this is the first joint sanctions action by washington and gulf states .
the coordination was particularly significant because of a months-long diplomatic crisis between qatar and several gulf states .
saudi arabia , egypt , the uae and bahrain severed relations with qatar in june , accusing it of financing terrorism , meddling in the affairs of arab countries and cozying up to their arch-rival iran .
the four countries have since added dozens of individuals and entities to a blacklist they say are associated with qatar .
one of the individuals on wednesday s sanctions list , abdula wahaba al-humayqani , and one of the entities , rahmah charitable , are part of that blacklist .
qatar s national counter terrorism committee said in a statement it had strengthened its anti-terrorism finance laws .
qatar is committed to taking the necessary steps to defeat terrorism in all its forms , and will continue to work closely with the united states to impose sanctions on those who facilitate terrorist activity , major general abdulaziz a. al ansari said in the statement .
qatar signed an agreement with the united states in july to increase cooperation on fighting terrorism finance , qatar s counter-terrorism committee said .
peter harrell a sanctions expert at the center for a new american security , said cooperation between gulf nations and qatar was an important step .
qatar has had a history of not being as robust on terrorism finance , harrell said .
it s heartening to see qatar do this .
it signals some ability to cooperate .