moscow/beirut ( reuters ) - russian president vladimir putin hosted syrian president bashar al-assad for three hours of talks to lay the groundwork for a new push by moscow to end syria s conflict now that islamic state s territory is overrun .
russia is trying to broker an international consensus around a peace deal for syria , over two years after moscow began a military intervention that turned the tide of the conflict in assad s favor .
putin said he would follow up his meeting late on monday with assad by talking soon to international leaders with influence over the conflict , among them u.s. president donald trump , the saudi king , and the leaders of iran and turkey .
in a more than hour long phone call on tuesday , trump and putin stressed the importance of the u.n.-led peace process in resolving the syrian civil war , the white house said .
according to the kremlin , putin told trump that the syrian leader confirmed adherence to the political process , to run a constitutional reform and presidential and parliamentary elections .
previous attempts to end syria s six years of war have foundered because of bitter disagreements , especially on whether assad himself should stay in power .
after the talks in russia assad s first publicly-declared travel outside syria since a trip to moscow in october , 2015 a kremlin spokesman declined to say if assad s own future had come up in the discussions , saying only that was up to the syrian people .
the white house statement made no mention of assad s future .
u.s. officials have said assad has no future governing syria .
putin meanwhile also spoke with saudi king salman , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi .
the half-hour conversation with netanyahu dealt with iran s attempts to gain a foothold in syria and israel s opposition to such moves , according to a source in netanyahu s office .
the israeli leader stressed his country s security concerns , the source said .
in a sign that international attempts may be underway to bridge the differences between rival sides in the syrian conflict , leading opposition figures , including former prime minister riyad hijab , resigned .
hijab headed the opposition high negotiations committee , formed with saudi backing , and had insisted on assad s removal from power at the start of a political transition .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov , speaking in moscow , said the resignations would make the opposition more reasonable and realistic .
on wednesday , turkish president tayyip erdogan and iranian president hassan rouhani whose countries back opposing sides in the syria conflict will travel to russia for a three-way meeting with putin aimed at advancing the syrian peace process .
assad s visit to russia was brief and closely-guarded .
he flew in on monday evening , held talks , and flew out four hours after landing , according to the kremlin .
officials did not release word of the meeting until tuesday morning .
sitting either side of a small coffee table in a conference room at putin s residence in sochi , southern russia , putin told assad it was time to pivot from a focus on military operations to a search for a peaceful solution .
syrian government forces and their allies at the weekend took control of albu kamal , the last major syrian town held by islamic state .
we still have a long way to go before we achieve a complete victory over terrorists .
but as far as our joint work in fighting terrorism on the territory of syria is concerned , this military operation is indeed wrapping up , putin told assad , in comments broadcast by russian television .
now the most important thing , of course , is to move on to the political questions , and i note with satisfaction your readiness to work with all those who want peace and a solution ( to the conflict ) , putin said .
russian defense minister sergei shoigu , dressed in an olive-colored uniform , looked on as putin and assad spoke .
wearing a dark suit and sitting across from putin , assad told the russian leader : at this stage , especially after we achieved victory over terrorists , it is in our interests to move forward with the political process .
and we believe that the situation we now have on the ground and in the political sense permits us to expect progress in the political process .
we count on the support of russia to ensure the non-interference of outside players in the political process , he said through an interpreter .
we don t want to look backwards .
we welcome all those who truly want to see a political solution .
we are ready to have a dialogue with them , said assad .
putin and assad last met in moscow on oct. 20 , 2015 , a few weeks after moscow launched its military operation in syria , which has beaten back anti-assad rebels and propped up struggling government forces .
underscoring the importance of the russian military to assad , putin presented the syrian leader to top military commanders assembled at his sochi residence .
on behalf of the entire syrian people , i express my gratitude for what you have done , assad told them .
we will not forget it .
assad s opponents , and western governments , have accused russia of killing significant numbers of syrian civilians with its air strikes , allegations moscow denies .
some people familiar with the kremlin s thinking say that , to reach a peace deal , russia would not insist on assad staying in power as long as the institutions of the syrian state remained intact .
but while russia is not wedded to assad , iran is committed to him .
iranian forces and the iran-backed hezbollah militia have played a big role in the fighting on the ground , supporting assad s forces .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah thanked and praised shi ite militias including afghans and iraqis for their role in the syria war in a speech on monday night .
he said the head of the iranian revolutionary guards qods force , major general qassem soleimani , had led the battle for albu kamal from the frontlines .