brachay , france ( reuters ) - french far-right leader marine le pen , who has been largely out of the spotlight since stinging electoral defeats , on saturday sought to reclaim the mantle of main opponent to president emmanuel macron , which polls now attribute to the far-left .
surveys show that while le pen gathered more votes in the presidential election this spring than her national front ( fn ) ever did before , lower-than-expected scores , a damaging tv debate against macron , infighting within the fn and unpopular anti-euro policies have seriously dented her image .
instead , far-leftist jean-luc melenchon and his france unbowed party , whose 17 lawmakers have been vocal opponents to macron since their election in june , in particular on labor reform , are seen as the new president s strongest foes .
lashing out at macron over his labor reform , immigration and security policies and what she said was the government s inadequate response to hurricane irma , le pen said in her first public speech in months : don t be mistaken , mr macron s dismantling efforts target not only the essence of our institutions but also society as a whole and each and every one of us , including on labor rules .
calling france unbowed islamo-trotskysts , saying they backed foreigners over french citizens and put up a show rather than properly opposing macron , le pen said the hardline laurent wauquiez , favorite to lead the conservative the republicans , would become more mainstream as soon as he was elected .
our political family is the only one capable of being a proper alternative , le pen told supporters in her traditional early september speech in the small , pro-fn eastern france village of brachay .
but in recognition of the difficulties her party faces and disappointment with the presidential and legislative election scores - the fn has only eight lawmakers in the lower house of parliament - le pen said she would tour france to meet supporters and discuss what should change within the fn .
she confirmed the party would change its name at a congress early next year .
and her speech struck a note that was different from her election campaign rallies .
le pen on saturday did not mention the euro at all and barely touched upon globalization , while both those themes were at the heart of her campaign strategy .
instead , le pen devoted the first chunk of her speech to a harsh criticism of immigration and islamism , signaling a return to the far-right party s fundamentals as opinion polls show her anti-euro stance is unpopular .