making a political endorsement by the naacp completely irrelevant you d think in order to get an endorsement from the naacp or its members that you d have to demonstrate loyalty and allegiance to black causes , but you d be wrong .
all it takes is some cold hard cash .
an naacp chapter president is offering up political endorsements from a political action committee he represents in exchange for a fat stack of ben franklins.hezekiah jackson is the birmingham , al naacp chapter president .
he is also the co-chair of team seven , a powerful local pac whose endorsements promise to deliver votes from the black community .
team seven is hosting a banquet on february 4 for local candidates to connect with voters .
of course this banquet is not free to the candidates , but there s something even dirtier about it.i know that i wrote in my headline that jackson was busted for selling endorsements , which implies he was sneaking around and got caught .
in actuality , he was flaunting this pay-off scheme and didn t care who noticed .
according to al.com , jackson sent the following e-mail to candidates he hoped would slide a little money his way .
it s basically a list of how much things cost and what you get for it:1 .
deadline to submit payment is friday , january 23 , 2016 to me ( jackson ) or pastor webb ( ad committee co-chair gwen webb ) .2 .
candidates purchasing an ad ( $ 500 ) will have two minutes to speak.3 .
candidates purchasing a table ( $ 500 ) will have two minutes to speak.4 .
candidates purchasing a combo ( ad $ 250 and table for eight $ 500 = $ 750 ) will have three minutes to speak.pay close attention to the next one:5 .
candidates who do not purchase an ad nor a table will not be considered for endorsement.did you get that ?
the candidates either pay up or they won t even be considered for an endorsement from jackson s pac .
no matter how you look at it , that s unethical as hell and probably illegal .
political action committees are bound by certain laws and i d like to believe shaking down politicians for endorsements is a big no-no.this is a classic al sharpton race-hustling scheme .
you want an endorsement ?
you want to be absolved of offending the black community ?
you want to avoid bad press and a boycott ?
just pay some tribute to the good reverend and he ll handle everything .
some may see this as extortion , but to sharpton it s just black activism .
via : downtrend