monrovia ( reuters ) - former soccer star george weah leads in partial presidential election results in 11 of liberia s 15 counties , the electoral commission said on thursday , after a vote meant to bring about the country s first democratic transfer of power in decades .
early results from tuesday s poll read to reporters by the commission s chairman left weah s camp confident he would win the outright majority he needs to avoid a run-off , even though most counties had reported tallies from less than a third of polling stations .
the other favorite in the 20-candidate field , vice-president joseph boakai , led in just one county , although he was running in second in most others .
i can say for sure that ambassador george manneh weah is going to be the next president of the republic of liberia , weah s adviser mulbah morlu told reuters .
the people of liberia have spoken .
the final results must be announced by oct. 25 and a run-off will be held next month if no one has won a majority .
before the commission s announcement , parties backing three other candidates alleged fraud and vowed to contest the results .
but international observers said they had seen no major problems with the vote .
the overall conduct of the voting was generally assessed as either good or very good , the eu mission said in a statement on thursday .
observers from the u.s.-based carter center and national democratic institute ( ndi ) also said they had not identified any major issues with the voting or subsequent counting .
the allegations of irregularities centered on charges that extra ballots were printed in advance and marked with votes for boakai from the ruling unity party of president ellen johnson sirleaf .
however , none of the parties provided evidence of cheating .
a unity party leader declined to respond to the accusations .
earlier in the day , johnson sirleaf , who became africa s first elected female president when she won a surprise victory in 2005 following a post-war transition , hailed the election as historic .
we believe that all liberians are ready for this process .
i thank them for participating in this process , she told reporters .
liberia , africa s oldest modern republic , was founded by freed u.s. slaves in 1847 but its last democratic power transfer occurred in 1944 .