istanbul/new york ( reuters ) - a trial which has strained turkish-u.s. ties before it even started opens this week in new york despite the possible absence of a defendant who turkey says is cooperating with prosecutors in what it calls a clear plot against ankara .
turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , charged with conspiring to evade u.s. sanctions on iran , has dropped out of sight in the last two months , prompting turkey s prime minister to suggest he has reached a plea deal with u.s. authorities .
james margolin , a spokesman for u.s. prosecutors in manhattan , declined to comment on whether zarrab was cooperating with the authorities .
a lawyer for zarrab , benjamin brafman , declined to comment for this article .
zarrab and eight other people , including turkey s former economy minister and three executives of turkish state-owned halkbank , have been charged with engaging in transactions worth hundreds of millions of dollars for iran s government and iranian entities from 2010 to 2015 in a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
only zarrab and mehmet hakan atilla , one of the halkbank executives , have been arrested by u.s. authorities .
ex-minister zafer caglayan , who has not been arrested by the united states and remains in turkey , is also accused of receiving tens of millions of dollars in bribes from the proceeds of the scheme .
the turkish government has said he acted within turkish and international law .
caglayan , zarrab and atilla have denied all the charges against them .
victor rocco , a lawyer for atilla , declined to comment on the case .
caglayan could not be reached for comment .
halkbank says all its transactions fully comply with turkish and international regulations .
turkish president tayyip erdogan s government has said the case has been fabricated for political motives .
the tensions it has exacerbated between ankara and washington - nato allies - have hit investor sentiment toward turkey , and traders say it has also contributed to the lira s fall to record lows .
u.s. prosecutors claim that the defendants helped zarrab use his network of companies to supply currency and gold to the iranian government and iranian entities , violating u.s. sanctions .
the prosecutors have alleged that the defendants used front companies and fake invoices to trick u.s. banks into processing transactions disguised to appear as though they involved food , which is exempt from the sanctions .
turkish prime minister binali yildirim said the charges were baseless , and that turkey had not violated its own or international laws regarding exports and trade .
the zarrab case is a clear plot against turkey , a political case and lacking any legal basis , government spokesman bekir bozdag said last week .
zarrab has been absent from recent court hearings .
last month atilla s lawyers said zarrab , who was arrested in miami in march 2016 , had essentially not participated in the case and that atilla might be the only defendant appearing at trial .
the defendants in the case are under pressure and being forced to make statements against our country , yildirim said , without explanation .
the case is acutely sensitive in turkey because the prosecutors say a turkish government minister , caglayan , was involved in the alleged conspiracy to evade the u.s. sanctions .
in a filing four weeks ago , prosecutors also included the transcript of an april 16 , 2013 recorded phone call in which a speaker they identified as zarrab discussed with another co-defendant his efforts to buy a bank to establish a conduit for iranian transactions .
prosecutors said zarrab and erdogan , then turkey s prime minister , had spoken four days earlier at a wedding .
i explained it that day at the wedding , zarrab told the co-defendant , according to prosecutors .
i will go back and will say , mr. prime minister , if you approve , give me a license .
erdogan has not been accused of any wrongdoing , but has repeatedly expressed frustration with the case .
you arrest the general manager of my bank when there are no crimes , try to use my citizen ( zarrab ) as an informant , try him without having anything against him , erdogan said in a speech to provincial governors on oct. 12 , in an apparent reference to the u.s. prosecutors .
turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu has said he sees in this case the hand of u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen .
erdogan accuses gulen of masterminding last year s failed military coup in turkey and also of driving an earlier legal case involving zarrab .
in that earlier case , turkish prosecutors accused zarrab and high-ranking turkish officials of involvement in facilitating iranian money transfers via gold smuggling .
after details of the turkish prosecution were leaked in 2013 , several prosecutors were removed from the case and police investigators were reassigned .
erdogan branded the case an attempt by gulen s supporters to undermine his government and the investigation was later dropped .
cavusoglu said the two legal cases were exactly the same , and showed the extent to which gulen had infiltrated american state institutions , including its judiciary .
needless to say , those claims are ridiculous , acting u.s. attorney joon kim said last week .
the case has been handled by career prosecutors concerned only with u.s. law , not turkish politics , kim said , adding : they re not gulenists .
gulen denies involvement in the failed 2016 coup or any other attempts to undermine erdogan and his government .
the zarrab case is one of several festering disputes between ankara and washington , which disagree over u.s. support for kurdish fighters in syria and suspended visa services after the arrest of a locally employed u.s. consulate worker in istanbul last month .
in a speech on wednesday , yildirim highlighted the economic fallout from the court hearings , saying they had come to the point of harming turkey and our global economic ties .
turkey s bank regulator denied a report in haberturk newspaper last month that six unnamed turkish banks could face fines worth billions of dollars over iran sanctions violations .
investors are nervous .
turkish bank shares have fallen more than 13 percent in november , nearly twice the decline of the broader istanbul market .
jury selection is due to start on monday , meaning the trial may begin as early as tuesday .