baghdad ( reuters ) - a prominent iraqi militia indicated on thursday it would give any heavy weapons it had to the military once islamic state was defeated and rejected a proposed u.s. congressional bill designating it a terrorist group .
harakat hezbollah al nujaba , which has about 10,000 fighters , is one of the most important militias in iraq .
though made up of iraqis , it is loyal to iran and is helping tehran create a supply route through iraq to damascus .
the nujaba fights under the umbrella of the popular mobilization forces ( pmf ) , a mostly iranian-backed coalition of shi ite militias that played a role in combating islamic state .
disarming the pmf is seen as prime minister haider al-abadi s most difficult test as iraqi forces edge closer to declaring victory over the sunni militants .
the heavy weapons belong to the iraqi government , not us .
we are not rebels or agents of chaos and we do not want to be a state within a state , hashim al-mouasawi , the group s spokesman , said at a news conference on thursday .
he was responding to a reuters question on whether his group would obey orders by abadi , who as prime minister commands the military , to return heavy weaponry , reduce the number of fighters , or withdraw from syria .
he would not be drawn on the reduction of fighters or syria .
the pmf is under the command of the commander-in-chief of the armed forces and naturally when the war is over and victory is declared , the final decision will be his , mouasawi said .
his comments broadly echoed those of iraqi military spokesman brigadier general yahya rasool .
the tanks , armored vehicles , and machine guns belong to the army and it is natural that after the battles are over they return to the army , rasool told reuters in an interview .
nujaba strongly objected to moves by washington towards designating it a terrorist group .
nujaba blames the united states , without providing evidence , for the creation of is .
republican u.s. representative ted poe introduced a bill this month to the house of representatives that would place nujaba and another militia loyal to iran on a list of terrorist groups and give president donald trump 90 days to impose sanctions on it once it passed .
the bill was referred to the house committee on foreign affairs , sparking condemnation in baghdad from iraqi lawmakers and abadi himself , who said he would not allow anyone who fought islamic state to be treated as criminals .
accusing us of terrorism is not new or surprising .
it is not a coincidence , and does not shock us , because we have never been part of the american bloc or project , said mouasawi .
iraq is backed by adversaries the united states and iran in its fight against islamic state .
the united states is concerned that iran , a shi ite muslim regional power , will take advantage of gains against islamic state in iraq and syria to expand the influence it amassed after the u.s. invasion in 2003 , something sunni arab rivals such as saudi arabia also oppose .
tens of thousands of iraqis heeded a call to arms in 2014 after islamic state seized a third of the country s territory , forming the pmf , which receive funding and training from tehran and have been declared part of the iraqi security apparatus .
they are paid by the iraqi government and officially report to the prime minister , but some arab sunni and kurdish politicians describe these militias as a de facto branch of the iran s islamic revolutionary guards corp ( irgc ) .
mouasawi openly said on thursday his group receives support in the form of advice from the guards and the commander of its foreign operations , major-general qassem soleimani , and lebanese shi ite political and military group hezbollah .