this is truly a sad and senseless situation .
this young man , who is now deceased was given a scholarship to college , was a star athlete , and now he s dead .
why ?
because barack obama started a race war and tens of thousands of influential young men and women have bought into it , hook , line and sinker .
hillary has been promising to keep the hate and division alive .
if america likes seeing innocent cops being gunned down in cold blood , or watching relationships between people of different races turning into nonsensical violent confrontations , vote for hillary to keep this nightmare alive an off-duty st. louis county police officer shot and killed a man who tried to enter his home in lakeshire in south county on saturday afternoon , according to police.the intruder was a 20-year-old man known to the family who had recently made threats toward the family and uninvolved members of the community on facebook , police said saturday night.police sunday morning identified the intruder as tyler gebhard , 20 , of the 7900 block of navajoe street in the affton area.an uncle , patrick brogan , 57 , of waterloo , ill. , said gebhard became acquainted with the county police officer through a church connection.brogan said his nephew , a former affton high school football standout , suffered from bi-polar disorder.according to brogan , the officer and gebhard had been arguing on facebook about black lives matter.gebhard , who was biracial , empathized with the group s objectives but did not actively participate in protests , brogan said.the affton school district website notes that gebhard was a 2014 recipient of the howard foundation of st. louis scholarship , awarded by the united negro college fund.brogan called his nephew a hard-hitting kid at football .
gebhard , he added , also excelled at golf.nikki toal , a family friend who also resides in waterloo , described gebhard as a wonderful kid .
he was a sweetheart , toal told a reporter outside the family s affton home .
the nicest person you could ever meet .
family members told brogan the disagreement between the two men culminated with gebhard traveling from affton to lakeshire late saturday afternoon.st .
louis county police chief jon belmar at a saturday press conference did not identify the officer involved beyond describing him as a three-year veteran of the department.the officer was placed on administrative leave pending investigation of the incident.belmar on saturday offered a timeline of what occurred after gebhard arrived in lakeshire : the officer , the chief said , was at home about 5:50 p.m. with his wife , mother-in-law , a toddler and an infant child when a man later identified as gebhard started ringing the doorbell.when the wife answered the door with the infant , she immediately recognized gebhard.she shut the door and went to a back bedroom with other family members.belmar said that before the officer could get to the front door , gebhard went to the rear of the house , where he threw a 50-pound concrete planter through a window to enter the home.members of the family in the bedroom said they heard the officer tell the intruder to get down , get down , get down , and then heard several shots fired , belmar said.as the shots were being fired , members of the family were trying to escape from a bedroom window.gebhard was shot twice in the chest .
he was taken to st. anthony s hospital , where he was pronounced dead .
i don t think the officer had a choice i honestly don t , belmar said .
he called it a very difficult position to be in .
belmar wasn t sure whether the gun was the officer s department-issued firearm or his personal weapon.brogan said the events of saturday afternoon left two families devastated.an uncle , patrick brogan , 57 , of waterloo , said gebhard became acquainted with the county police officer through a church connection.brogan said his nephew , a former affton high school football standout , suffered from bi-polar disorder.family members told brogan the disagreement between the two men culminated with gebhard traveling from affton to lakeshire late saturday afternoon .
he walked over there and into a gunfight , brogan said , drawing on accounts offered by friends of his nephew .
when he got there he was met with a gun and the guy killed him .
brogan said gebhard periodically stopped taking medication .
he was like a normal 20-year-old , ( the family ) had to stay on him to take his medication , brogan said.the uncle said the disorder worsened during gebhard s first year at southeast missouri state in cape girardeau .
he had a lot of mental problems the last few months , brogan said of the 2014 affton high graduate .
a lot of difficulties in life .
gebhard had football profiles on several prep sites.several members of gebhard s extended family are in law enforcement , brogan said.via : st. louis post-dispatch