sydney ( reuters ) - australia s former deputy prime minister barnaby joyce cleared the way for his return to parliament on saturday , winning a by-election just over a month after he was kicked out over a dual citizenship crisis that cost the government its majority .
joyce was not only returned in his new england seat in new south wales but was forecast to have lifted his primary vote by at least 10 points , giving prime minister malcolm turnbull a welcome boost after a tough few weeks .
this has been a stunning victory , turnbull told supporters as he joined joyce at a pub in the town of tamworth .
exit polls were predicting the largest swing to the government in the history of by-elections in australia , turnbull said , adding it was a vindication of his coalition .
we re getting the band back together .
joyce was one of the citizenship seven whose eligibility to sit in parliament was thrown into doubt when it was found they were dual citizens , a status that is barred for politicians under australia s constitution to prevent split allegiances .
the high court ruled on oct. 27 that joyce , along with four of the seven other lawmakers , was ineligible to remain in parliament , forcing a by-election .
joyce was found to be a dual citizen of new zealand , a status he has since rescinded .
the deputy leader position , traditionally held by a member of the junior coalition partner , the national party , had remained vacant since the high court ruling .
the result comes at a difficult time for turnbull , who earlier this week reversed his long-held opposition to a full-blown inquiry into the country s scandal-hit financial sector amid mounting political pressure .
turnbull has also seen a splinter within his center right liberal-national coalition over same-sex marriage , with the conservative faction , led by some of the nationals , angered by his promise to push through legislation after an historic public vote in favor of the unions .
the last day of campaigning for the by-election was marred by a call from new south wales nationals state leader and deputy premier john barilaro for turnbull to step down as a christmas gift to the nation .
the comments were quickly rebuffed by liberal party lawmakers and joyce , who said they were very unhelpful and insulting .