washington ( reuters ) - michigan governor rick snyder on thursday extended a state of emergency in flint until april 14 , as the michigan legislature gave final approval of $ 28 million to address the drinking water crisis .
snyder ’ s move approved by the state legislature means the state emergency declaration will continue as long as the federal emergency declaration issued earlier this month by president barack obama .
the state declaration was originally set to end feb. 1 .
“ extending this emergency will help us continue these efforts while working on long-term solutions to help flint recover , ” snyder said of providing access to bottled water , filters and testing kits .
separately , michigan democrats in congress said thursday they want to win backing for up to $ 600 million in u.s. support of flint .
senators debbie stabenow and gary peters and rep. dan kildee of flint said they will offer an amendment to a pending senate energy bill that would provide up to $ 400 million to replace or fix lead pipes .
the proposal would require the state of michigan to match any federal funding .
the proposal would also direct $ 200 million in federal funds for a research center to focus on the needs of children and would also require the environmental protection agency to warn the public of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so .
peters said democrats also want a change in the law to allow the federal government to forgive $ 20 million in loans to flint .
white house spokesman josh earnest said the obama administration does not have a position yet on the proposal , and was not aware of any plans to place flint under some kind of special category .
soul singer and detroit native aretha franklin told msnbc on thursday she was donating 50 hotel rooms nightly and money for food during the crisis , and has urged other motown artists to help .
u.s. representative xavier becerra , speaking in baltimore at a democratic retreat , said someone should be arrested .
“ what went down in flint should cause someone to have a rap sheet , ” he said .
“ there should be some indictments. ” the detroit free press reported on thursday , citing state government emails released by liberal group progress michigan , that in january 2015 while state officials were telling flint residents their water was safe to drink they were arranging for coolers of purified water in flint ’ s state office building .
the $ 28 million approved by the state will be used to provide bottled water and other supplies , put nurses in local schools and more .