fox news veteran bill o reilly is being slaughtered on twitter today for appearing stumble drunk as he attempted to interview the candidates after thursday night s gop debate.reviewing the footage , it is clear that o reilly appears to be tired and emotional , tripping over words and making many long and uncomfortable pauses as he gazes off into the middle distance .
patton oswald took to twitter to accuse the host of being drunk.holy shit .
i want to turn away but bill o'reilly is truman capote talkshow drunk .
# wow patton oswalt ( @ pattonoswalt ) march 4 , 2016but a quick search of twitter reveals that oswalt was far from the only viewer that found o reilly s performance somewhat suspicious .
during an interview with ted cruz , o reilly had particular trouble attempting to pronounce words of more than two syllables .
@ samseder why on earth do you think o'reilly is drunk ?
pic.twitter.com/41flj5j9bn kram otrop ( @ mark_esque ) march 4 , 2016and during an interview with donald trump , o reilly seemed barely able to keep his eyes focussed , or stand up straight.so sociable that trump pic.twitter.com/wzbabwcphn brownette ( @ beach41st ) march 4 , 2016john ross bowie drew an amusing comparison to this moment below @ wilw @ pattonoswalt o'reilly stumble drunk is the only way this could be sadder .
gerry duggan ( @ gerryduggan ) march 4 , 2016the host also seemed , at one stage , to be incapable of remembering the name of his own show.is this how bill o'reilly always sounds or did the # gopdebate go a bit too long ?
https : //t.co/pdqiewsm9y alex konrad ( @ alexrkonrad ) march 4 , 2016it did also appear that o reilly was ready to break into song .
perhaps a lament at the demise of his beloved republican party ? bill o'reilly just almost shouted `` live from ny it 's saturday night '' https : //t.co/lznw6uunwa alex konrad ( @ alexrkonrad ) march 4 , 2016whether o reilly was over-tired , or simply hammered it s hard to blame him considering the car crash that is unfolding within the gop .
both the front runners are radical extremists .
on the one hand , the old-style vainglorious authoritarian donald trump who has all but won the nomination .
and his nearest rival , the fire and brimstone creationist theocrat ted cruz who would be every bit as dangerous were he to gain access to the white house.the whole election cycle has descended into a playground brawl amongst toddler tyrants .
a gang of extremists so far beyond the pale that mitt romney is being wheeled out as a moderate.if o reilly is drinking , we find it hard to blame him .
someone has to toast the end of the republican party.featured image via screengrab