madrid ( reuters ) - forget the traditional socialist opposition and perhaps even the catalan separatists : the main threat to spain s conservative prime minister may now come from a barcelona politician dedicated to national unity - ines arrimadas .
the 36-year-old leader of the liberal ciudadanos party in catalonia has jumped to the frontline of spanish politics by coming out on top in elections to the region s assembly .
supporters even compare her performance with emmanuel macron s meteoric rise to the presidency across the border in france .
laying down the gauntlet to prime minister mariano rajoy and the separatists alike , arrimadas boosted her party s share of the vote to more than 25 percent in thursday s snap election , up from just 7.6 percent two years ago .
that made ciudadanos ( citizens ) the biggest group in the assembly , ahead of parties backing either more catalan autonomy or outright independence which had won every regional election since the restoration of spanish democracy in the 1970s .
arrimadas will struggle to form a regional coalition as collectively separatist parties achieved a narrow majority .
still , she celebrated victory with hundreds of supporters in the streets of barcelona on thursday night , flanked by her party s national leader , 38-year-old albert rivera .
on friday she made an appeal for unity following october s independence referendum which led to the catalan leader fleeing the country , other separatists leaders landing in jail and madrid imposing direct rule .
yesterday was a great night , a historic night and for me the start of reconciliation in catalonia , even if sometimes things take a little longer than what we would expect , she told onda cero radio .
her performance echoed similarly strong showings from centrists in french presidential and legislative elections earlier this year , raising the hopes of ciudadanos .
this result is fully transferable to national politics , said toni roldan , a lawmaker for the party in the spanish parliament who is also from catalonia .
it takes ciudadanos to the next level and we will be competing on equal footing with rajoy in the next spanish election .
describing arrimadas as a political jewel , roldan said the choice for all europeans was now between liberalism and populism .
in this struggle , ciudadanos stood alongside macron - who beat far right candidate marine le pen to the presidency - and was now ready to blow apart the traditional left-right divide in spain , roldan added .
ciudadanos , which has its roots in catalonia , will need strong momentum if it is to threaten rajoy s grip on power as the party came only fourth in last year s national election with 13.9 percent .
an opinion poll taken before the catalan vote put it still in fourth .
however , alone among the major parties , its support was up to 17.5 percent , suggesting voters are being won over by its tough stance on spanish unity and against corruption , as well as its young professional leaders .
a veteran politician who has survived past crises , rajoy leads a minority government and has yet to get a 2018 budget through parliament .
however , he is under no immediate pressure as he can simply roll over the 2017 budget for months .
also , the opposition is so fractured that it probably can not bring rajoy down and no serious leadership rival has emerged within his traditional center-right popular party ( pp ) .
if the secessionists pursue their aims by negotiation , they too are unlikely to pose a great threat to rajoy , who could also re-impose direct rule in the region if they decided to act unilaterally .
arrimadas was born in the andalusian town of jerez , far from barcelona where she moved after completing a law degree .
her husband was a lawmaker for separatist leader carles puigdemont s party , before resigning in 2016 to avoid complicating her political rise .
both have said their passion for barcelona football team brought them together .
she was first elected as a ciudadanos lawmaker in 2012 at 31 , two years after a colleague at the consultancy where she worked in barcelona had invited her to a party rally .
the political and social situation was so serious that i felt the need to stop complaining from the sofa and go on to propose ideas and debate from parliament , she told an interviewer in 2015 .
since then , her party has made a successful move into national politics , backing rajoy s minority government although not joining it .
ciudadanos is creating the next big headache for rajoy .
they can extract concessions from the pp without any political cost .
and if rajoy fails to pass the budget because of the catalan issue , he won t be able to blame ciudadanos for the stalemate and a potential snap election , said teneo intelligence analyst antonio barroso .
barroso and other analysts said the moment of truth may come in the second half of 2018 , should rajoy have failed to normalize the situation in catalonia .
rivals express grudging admiration for the party .
ciudadanos has managed to bring together all unionism in a technically perfect campaign , a source close to puigdemont said on condition of anonymity .
it is an artificial product that represents the feelings of many people .