havana ( reuters ) - roydis vald s dilapidated home on animas street in the densely packed center of old havana had been declared uninhabitable by cuba s communist authorities years ago , his neighbors said .
after hurricane irma shook the cuban capital - a crumbling architectural jewel of the caribbean - vald s and his brother were found under a collapsed wall , just two of the seven people killed by falling buildings on the island .
havana s historic center , where baroque spanish colonial-era palaces butt shoulders with sleek art deco apartment buildings , was already crumbling before it took a lashing from irma - a visible reminder of the hardship caused by a 57-year u.s. trade embargo .
residents fear the violent storm - the worst to hit the cuban mainland since 1932 - will accelerate the city s decline .
while the eye of the hurricane did not reach the capital , tropical-storm force winds and heavy rains of its outer bands , as well as a storm surge , wrought havoc on its decrepit buildings .
salty water from irma s heavy rains that has seeped into the brick and mortar of the capital s buildings will worsen corrosion and likely cause a raft of new collapses , residents and architects warn .
now when the sun comes out , that s when things will really start to fall apart in havana , said berta rodriguez , a 71-year-old pensioner who lives on animas street and knew vald s and his brother well .
we spent years asking the state to remove them from there , she said , crying .
the state has to answer for this .
irma has shone an unwelcome spotlight on the caribbean nation s housing problems at a tricky time for the government .
already dealing with a cash crunch in the wake of a steep decline in aid from its key ally , venezuela , cuba also faces a political transition as president raul castro steps down next year , symbolizing the passing of the baton from the generation that led the 1959 revolution .
rodriguez , who evacuated to her son s sturdier home during the hurricane , says she has been asking the communist authorities for a new home for more than 20 years , echoing the frustrations of many havana residents .
after the revolution led by raul castro s elder brother fidel , the cuban state confiscated many of havana s grand historic buildings and distributed them to poor and middle-class families who over the years have divided them into ever-smaller units .
maintaining those buildings in a punishing tropical climate , however , fell by the wayside as the communist government prioritized universal healthcare and education , as well as building infrastructure in the impoverished countryside .
with state salaries averaging $ 30 per month and credit hard to get , cubans say they do not have the money to fix up buildings themselves .
a builder told me i need to repair the walls that are full of holes , but i couldn t find the cash , said rodriguez , who suffers from chronic bronchitis made worse by her badly leaking ceiling .
about 4,400 cases of damage to housing were reported in the capital due to irma , state-run media said on thursday .
of those , authorities confirmed nearly 1,200 buildings were entirely or partially destroyed .
the city is working on restoring damaged roofs and preparing two shelters for families left homeless , the newspaper granma added .
but this will solve only part of a far greater problem .
the housing deficit in the nation of 11 million people rose last year by 30,000 to nearly 900,000 units , the government told parliament in july .
in havana , it estimated a shortage of more than 200,000 homes .
the state had built 316,595 homes between 1990 and 2013 , an effort that the president of the construction commission santiago lajes choy told parliament was still insufficient .
litza penalver , whose sister s family lives in the building on animas street partially destroyed by irma , said authorities want to get residents out now .
they want to demolish it , to cover up their errors , she said .
they want to oblige us to stay in a large shelter and wait ( for a new house ) but the wait can last 30 years - cuba doesn t have the resources .
many havana residents say they would prefer to stay in their decrepit homes , no matter how dangerous , rather than move to large shelters that offer no privacy .
still , with the rainy season ongoing , many worry that more hurricanes could hit before it ends in november .
while irma has exacerbated frustration with cuba s housing problems , even dissidents say it is unlikely to fuel outright opposition to the government .
there might be more spontaneous , isolated expressions of discontent , said jose daniel ferrer , leader of the patriotic union of cuba ( unpacu ) , one of the island s largest dissident groups .
but not organized protests with clear political aims given the high level of repression at the moment .
rodriguez , penalver and others on animas street said theirs was not a political problem and noted they were strong supporters of the revolution that toppled right-wing dictator fulgencio batista in 1959 and subsequently provided free healthcare and education to ordinary cubans .
i love my country , said penalver , adding she had a spanish passport but chose to live in cuba .
i m not looking for political problems .
i m looking for solution to the housing issue .