london ( reuters ) - britain s finance minister philip hammond on sunday faced mounting questions over his future weeks ahead of a budget announcement , finding himself at the center of an increasingly fraught debate over britain s departure from the european union .
the eu last week declared a disturbing deadlock in talks with prime minister theresa may s government on arrangements to leave the bloc , raising the chances of britain quitting without a negotiated deal and increasing criticism of the government s handling of brexit .
on sunday an unnamed source from the democratic unionist party ( dup ) said may must warn hammond he faces the sack unless he changes his approach to brexit , the sunday telegraph reported .
the dup is a small northern irish political party which is keeping may s minority government in power .
we are very concerned about philip hammond s behavior , the senior parliamentary dup source told the newspaper .
it is evident to us that he is winding people up and causing unnecessary division within the conservative party at a crucial time in the brexit negotiations .
a dup spokesman later said the party did not recognize the inaccurate comments .
hammond , 61 , who is seen by many as may s most pro-eu minister , has become a focal point of criticism for brexiteers , who say he is overly pessimistic about the impact of leaving the bloc and is damaging britain s negotiating stance .
last week hammond warned that brexit was causing a cloud of uncertainty over the british economy that needed to be cleared as quickly as possible .
he has previously angered eurosceptics by calling for a lengthy transition out of the eu , during which there will be little change to rules on issues like immigration .
in a botched attempt on friday to calm speculation over his future and play down the party s divisions hammond described the eu as the enemy in negotiations .
he later said he regretted his choice of words .
he had been expected to lose his job if may had won an increased majority at a june snap election , but the vote instead saw the conservatives lose their majority and hammond retain his position as may fought to maintain unity between pro-eu and pro-brexit factions .
the june election also transformed the dup , which only has 10 lawmakers in the 650-seat parliament , into an influential voice .
may struck a deal with the party and is reliant on their support to pass legislation .
the delicate parliamentary arithmetic also means may faces criticism from lawmakers , including several from within her own party , who disagree with may s threat to walk away from eu negotiations without a deal unless brussels agrees fair terms .
the opposition labour party s finance policy chief warned on sunday that with the support on rebels from may s party , parliament would block any attempt to leave the eu without a negotiated agreement .
questions over the future of one of may s most senior ministers come as he is due to present a budget plan on nov. 22 which will see britain through one of its most uncertain periods in decades , amid growing business concern and voter unrest .
the sunday times reported that hammond was preparing a revolutionary budget that could see the government ditch its opposition to borrowing more to boost investment , and may include tax breaks for the young paid for by pensioners .
the view has galvanized that this budget has got to be big , it s got to be powerful , it s got to be revolutionary .
saying it s got to be brave is really understating it .
people are very clear that this is basically the last chance , the paper reported a senior government source as saying .
hammond has limited room to increase public spending without pushing up britain s still high borrowing levels .
the country s budget forecasters have signaled they are about to turn more gloomy about growth forecasts , meaning less tax revenue to fund hammond s war-chest to help the economy weather the process of leaving the eu in the coming years .
but he is already under pressure now to relax his grip on spending to counter the left-wing opposition labour party whose promises of more spending and higher taxes on the wealthy won over large numbers of voters in the june election .
at the same time , hammond must not alarm investors who fund a budget shortfall which is expected to grow this year .
their lending helps britain plug one of the widest current account deficits among the world s leading economies .