( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court is set to rule on monday on a legal challenge by abortion providers to a texas law requiring doctors performing the procedure to have “ admitting privileges ” at local hospitals and clinics to meet hospital-grade standards .
following is a timeline of that challenge .
july 2013 - the republican-led texas legislature passes and republican governor rick perry signs the law known as h.b .
2 , putting new requirements on abortion providers .
state officials say the law is intended to ensure the health and safety of women .
september 2013 – before the law is enforced , planned parenthood and other abortion providers challenge the measure .
they assert that certain provisions , including one related to doctors ’ “ admitting privileges ” - a type of formal affiliation - at a hospital within 30 miles ( 48 km ) of an abortion clinic , are aimed at decreasing the abortion availability in the state .
october 2013 – a u.s. district judge sides largely with the challengers , blocking the admitting privileges provision .
march 2014 - the new orleans-based u.s. court of appeals for the 5th circuit , a regional federal appeals court covering texas , louisiana and mississippi , reverses the lower court and permits much of the law to take effect .
april 2014 - whole woman ’ s health and other abortion providers bring a new complaint against texas , citing the effect of the law ’ s implementation and the number of clinics that have closed .
the challengers focus on the admitting-privileges requirement and regulations governing clinic facility standards .
august 2014 – a u.s. district court judge declares the admitting privileges and clinic requirements an unconstitutional burden on women ’ s access to abortion .
october 2014 - the u.s. court of appeals for the 5th circuit intervenes to allow implementation of both new regulations , but the u.s. supreme court blocks part of the order so that the mandate that clinics meet hospital-grade standards does not go into effect .
june 2015 - after considering the full merits of the challenge , the u.s. court of appeals for the 5th circuit reverses the district judge ’ s decision , finding the judge should have deferred to the legislature ’ s stated health and safety goals .
the appeals court also says most of the lawsuit should have been barred because the legal issues it raises already were addressed in the case filed by planned parenthood .
june 2015 - the u.s. supreme court by a 5-4 vote puts a temporary hold on the 5th circuit ’ s ruling while the justices consider whether to hear the challengers ’ appeal .
that action blocks the provision regarding hospital-grade standards from taking effect .
september 2015 - the abortion providers challenging the texas restrictions ask the u.s. supreme court to hear their appeal of the 5th circuit ’ s ruling .
november 2015 - the u.s. supreme court agrees to hear the challenge by abortion providers to the texas restrictions .
february 2016 - conservative u.s. supreme court justice antonin scalia , a supporter of abortion restrictions , dies at age 79 , leaving the court shorthanded and evenly divided with four liberals and four conservatives .
march 2016 - the u.s. supreme court hears 85 minutes of oral arguments in the case , known as whole woman ’ s health v. hellerstedt .
the court ’ s four liberal justices indicate they believe the law intrudes on a woman ’ s constitutional right to abortion .
the four conservative justices express doubts about claims by abortion providers that the law forced numerous clinics to shut down .
june 2016 - the u.s. supreme court is due to rule on monday in whole woman ’ s health v. hellerstedt .