belfast ( reuters ) - britain will have to bring in legislation to set a budget for northern ireland if the province s political parties can not reach an agreement to restore their power-sharing government by monday , a british government spokesman said .
northern ireland has been without a regional administration since its collapse in january , raising the prospect of direct rule being reimposed from london , potentially destabilizing a delicate political balance in the british province .
the british minister for the region , james brokenshire , said last week that talks had stalled with the irish nationalist sinn fein party and the pro-british democratic unionist party ( dup ) stuck over the rights of irish language speakers .
if a deal is struck by monday , brokenshire would return to london to begin the processes required to form a new northern ireland executive , the spokesman added .
however , if a budget is imposed by london , it would be the closest northern ireland has come to a return to direct rule in a decade .
brokenshire has warned the parties that they are on a glide path to greater and greater uk government intervention .
the dup and sinn fein shared power in the previous devolved administration under a system created following a peace deal which ended three decades of violence in the province .
the head of the social democratic and labour party ( sdlp ) , one of the region s smaller parties , has said that handing over budgetary responsibility to london effectively constitutes direct rule and can not be painted any other way .
sinn fein president gerry adams said a new phase of talks would begin if an agreement could not be struck by monday .
if there is no deal done by the time the british minister brings forward a budget , that will signify that this phase of the talks - and there will obviously have to be other phases - has been exhausted , adams told irish national broadcaster rte .
irish foreign minister simon coveney , who is co-facilitating the talks with brokenshire , has said reverting to direct rule would be a devastating blow for reconciliation in the region .
coveney has also urged the parties to reach a deal so that northern ireland can have a greater say in britain s talks to leave the european union , set to have a bigger impact on the province than on any other part of the united kingdom .