strasbourg ( reuters ) - the eu executive called again on wednesday for the spanish government and catalan authorities to open dialogue to defuse the sometimes violent confrontation over catalonia s push for independence .
it s time to talk , the european commission s deputy head , frans timmermans , told the european parliament during an emergency debate on the crisis in spain .
reflecting the cautiously balanced tone of a commission statement on monday after images of violent police action against an unauthorized independence referendum , timmermans endorsed the legal position of spanish prime minister mariano rajoy but also renewed an appeal for dialogue .
and despite saddening images of spanish police beating participants in what the commission says was an illegal vote , brussels has no plan to accede to calls from the separatist government in barcelona for direct eu mediation - spain s democratic systems are quite adequate for that , eu leaders say .
you can work to change the law , but you can not ignore the law , timmermans said in remarks aimed at catalan leaders , who appear set on a unilateral declaration of independence in defiance of constitutional court rulings that forbid secession .
respect for the rule of law is not optional , added first vice president timmermans , who also leads a commission effort to prevent poland s right-wing government from changing judiciary regulations that the eu says is a move toward authoritarianism .
an eu lawmaker from poland s ruling party accused the eu of double standards for pressuring warsaw but not madrid - and several other eurosceptic and nationalist members also said the eu had not criticized spanish police action firmly enough .
but timmermans insisted it was not for brussels to intervene : the commission has called on all relevant actors to now move quickly from confrontation to dialogue ...
it s time to talk .
to find a way out of the impasse , working within the constitutional order of spain .
earlier on wednesday , spanish members of the eu parliament traded accusations over whether leaders in barcelona or madrid were responsible for the crisis .
at one point , one spanish liberal lawmaker held up a copy of the post-dictatorship constitution , brandishing it at catalan separatists and saying catalans voted for it in 1978 .
in the afternoon debate , leaders of the main parties in the strasbourg chamber broadly echoed timmermans arguments .
few of europe s leaders want to see the disruption of splitting a major member state nor to encourage separatism in other countries .
the center-right leader , the bavarian manfred weber , and the liberal leader , the flemish guy verhofstadt , both referred to their own origins to argue that strong regional identity and autonomy did not mean breaking up existing nation states .
the irresponsible catalan government is splitting the country , said weber , an ally of german chancellor angela merkel and of rajoy .
he said the eu had neither the will nor the means to intercede .
some lawmakers , however , said brussels could to more to help .
greens leader ska keller , whose group includes pro-independence catalans , said the commission could act as honest broker to promote compromise .
it is wrong if the commission shies away and continues to turn a blind eye .
verhofstadt , a liberal former prime minister of belgium where constitutional gymnastics and extreme devolution have prevented his fellow flemings breaking with their french-speaking neighbors , chided spaniards for failing to go beyond legal arguments to find genuine dialogue and compromise .
he called any declaration of independence totally irresponsible and said : it s not a shame to make compromises .