brussels ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said on wednesday there could be no normal relations with russia until moscow ended its support for separatists in ukraine and returned crimea , in comments likely to reassure western allies .
speaking after a dinner where he discussed russia with nato foreign ministers on tuesday , tillerson took a tougher stance than u.s. president donald trump , who has sought better relations with russian president vladimir putin .
trump said last month after meeting putin in vietnam that he believed putin s denial of accusations that moscow meddled in the 2016 u.s. election .
that was despite u.s. intelligence agencies evidence of russian interference .
at nato , tillerson criticized russia s continued use of hybrid warfare and its attempts to undermine western institutions in a reference to the mix of state-sponsored computer hacks and internet disinformation campaigns that nato allies intelligence agencies say is targeted at the west .
this stands as a significant obstacle to normalizing our relations , tillerson told reporters .
at the nato dinner with ministers , tillerson also blamed russia for interfering in the u.s. election , said a diplomat who was present .
russia has denied meddling .
trump , whose former aides are being investigated after accusations that putin influenced the election that brought him to the white house , has repeatedly emphasized that it would be better if russia and the united states could work together .
tillerson , a former exxon mobil chief executive , has spent much of his time as secretary of state trying to smooth the america first foreign policy that has alarmed trump s allies , but the president has publicly undercut the secretary of state s diplomatic initiatives .
his trip to europe this week was partly overshadowed by reports the white house had a plan to replace him , which tillerson denied on wednesday .
[ l8n1o63lc ] tillerson stressed to ministers that the ukraine crisis , which was sparked by moscow s 2014 annexation of crimea , was the central issue that blocked better u.s.-russia ties because seizing sovereign territory was unacceptable , according to a second diplomat present .
the conflict between ukrainian forces and russian-backed separatists has claimed more than 10,000 lives since it erupted in 2014 .
russia denies accusations it fomented the conflict and provided arms and fighters .
people are still dying every day from that violence , tillerson said .
tillerson , who in 2013 as head of exxon mobil was awarded the order of friendship by putin , a russian state honor , said he hoped to agree to deploy u.n. troops to eastern ukraine , an idea the russian president floated in september .
with an internationally-agreed ceasefire long broken and efforts to revive a 2015 peace deal stalled , peacekeepers could end hostilities and allow trade to resume between russia and ukraine .
but tillerson warned there was still a significant difference between the mandate that a peacekeeping force would be given and the scope of their mandate .
we hope we can close those gaps , tillerson said .
russia is keen to see the end of western sanctions imposed over the ukraine crisis but european officials fear u.n. peacekeepers would freeze the conflict rather than solving it .
tillerson also cautioned against treating russia as a partner , saying all meetings with moscow should be based on issues , not agreed on the basis of a calendar , quashing any hopes of a detente in moscow s relations with washington .
i think there is broad consensus among all the nato members that there is no normalization of dialogue with russia today , he said .