new york ( reuters ) - more than 60 percent of americans would like to see the u.s. environmental protection agency ’ s powers preserved or strengthened under incoming president donald trump , and the drilling of oil on public lands to hold steady or drop , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday .
the results could foretell stronger-than-expected public opposition to trump ’ s plans to boost energy development by slashing environmental regulations , an agenda shared by some of his top cabinet picks slated for senate confirmation hearings later this week .
trump takes office on friday .
some 39 percent of americans would like to see the epa , the nation ’ s top environmental regulator , “ strengthened or expanded , ” while another 22 percent hope for it to “ remain the same , ” according to the poll .
just 19 percent said they would like to see the agency “ weakened or eliminated ” and the rest said they “ don ’ t know. ” among republicans , 47 percent wish for the epa either to “ remain the same ” or be “ strengthened or expanded , ” while 35 percent want it “ weakened or eliminated ” .
the online poll of 9,935 people was conducted dec. 16 to jan. 12 and has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 1.1 percentage points .
“ trump is a businessman , and that ’ s all he thinks about ... what will make money , ” said terry cox , a 61-year-old resident of tennessee who voted for the new york real estate mogul in november ’ s election .
“ but i ’ m hopeful there ’ s a limit to what he can do when it comes to weakening protections for wildlife and the environment. ” a trump transition team official declined to comment .
trump campaigned on a promise to drastically reduce environmental regulations in order to create jobs and pave the way for more oil , gas , and coal development .
he has said he would refocus the epa on its core mission to protect air and water quality .
he also accused the agency of using “ totalitarian tactics ” to enforce its regulations under president barack obama , who had made the epa central to his broader effort to combat global climate change by cutting carbon emissions .
according to the reuters/ipsos poll , just over 60 percent of americans think it would be wrong to weaken wildlife protections and air and water regulations to bolster the energy industry , while they were nearly evenly split on whether carbon emissions should be softened to help the industry .
the poll also showed that 39 percent of americans want to see a decrease in coal mining and oil drilling on u.s. federal lands in the coming years , while 23 percent hope for it to stay the same .
just 22 percent said they wanted to see an increase , and the rest said they do not know .
the u.s. government holds title to about 500 million acres of land across the country , including national parks and forests , wildlife refuges and tribal territories , overlaying billions of barrels of oil and vast quantities of natural gas , coal , and uranium .
trump has promised to boost industry access to these reserves .
trump nominated oklahoma attorney general scott pruitt , a climate change skeptic who has repeatedly sued the epa over its regulations , to head the agency .
pruitt is scheduled for senate hearings on wednesday , where lawmakers are expected to ask him about his ties to the energy industry .
trump also nominated u.s. representative ryan zinke of montana , an avid outdoorsman and former navy seal commander who advocates for more coal mining on federal lands , to run the department of the interior that oversees public lands .
zinke will face senate questions on tuesday .
and trump chose former texas governor rick perry to head the department of energy , a move that would put him in charge of the agency he proposed eliminating during his failed bid for the 2012 republican presidential nomination .
perry will be questioned on thursday .