wellington ( reuters ) - a final tally in new zealand s inconclusive election due to be released on saturday could see opposition labour and the greens gain a few seats , but will still leave nationalist new zealand first holding the balance of power .
new zealand first leader winston peters has said he will not make a decision on which party to back to form a coalition government until after the final count .
peters has held initial talks with prime minister bill english and his ruling national party and labour leader jacinda ardern , but more formal talks will take place next week .
peters has said he will make a decision by oct. 12 .
the national party has won 58 seats in the 120-seat parliament , ahead of a possible coalition of 52 seats between labour and the greens .
new zealand first holds the balance of power with nine seats .
judging by past elections the national party could lose one or two seats in the final tally , which will count special votes which make up 15 percent of ballots and include overseas votes , said oliver hartwich , executive director of think-tank new zealand initiative .
labour or the greens or both of them are going to pick up the seats from national .
it would be quite surprising if they didn t because ... the special votes usually favor the left , hartwich said .
peters has in past elections formed coalition governments with both the national party and labour , and some analysts believe if labour and the greens gain more seats in the final tally it could make peters more comfortable to again join them .
peters policies are thought to have more in common with those of labour - both want to curb immigration , renegotiate certain trade deals and adjust the role of the central bank albeit in different ways .
nobody can really tell at the moment .
he ( peters ) has completely kept the cards ( close ) to his chest , nobody can read what he is going to do , hartwich said .
while national and the greens have enough seats to form a coalition government , green party leader james shaw played down recent speculation that they may enter talks .
the greens have a working agreement with labour .