erbil/baghdad iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi kurdish leader masoud barzani said he would give up his position as president on nov. 1 , after an independence referendum he championed backfired and triggered a regional crisis .
there was high drama at the kurdish parliament , which was stormed by armed protesters as it met to approve the veteran leader s resignation as kurdish president .
some mps were barricaded in their offices on sunday evening .
in a televised address , his first since iraqi forces launched a surprise offensive to recapture kurdish-held territory on oct. 16 , barzani confirmed that he would not extend his presidential term after nov. 1 under any conditions .
i am the same masoud barzani , i am a peshmerga ( kurdish fighter ) and will continue to help my people in their struggle for independence , said barzani , who has campaigned for kurdish self-determination for nearly four decades .
the address followed a letter he sent to parliament in which he asked members to take measures to fill the resulting power vacuum .
the region s parliament met in the kurdish capital erbil on sunday to discuss the letter .
a majority of 70 kurdish mps voted to accept barzani s request and 23 opposed it , kurdish tv channels rudaw and kurdistan 24 said .
demonstrators , some carrying clubs and guns , stormed the parliament building as the session was in progress .
gunshots were heard .
some protesters outside the building said they wanted to punish mps who they said had insulted barzani .
some attacked journalists at the scene .
a kurdish official had told reuters on saturday that barzani had decided to hand over the presidency without waiting for elections that had been set for nov. 1 but which have now been delayed by eight months .
the region , which had enjoyed unprecedented autonomy for years , has been in turmoil since the independence referendum a month ago prompted military and economic retaliation from iraq s central government in baghdad .
in his address , barzani vigorously defended his decision to hold the sept. 25 referendum , the results of which can never be erased , he said .
the vote was overwhelmingly for independence and triggered the military action by the baghdad government and threats from neighboring turkey and iran .
he added that the iraqi attack on kirkuk and other kurdish held territory vindicated his position that baghdad no longer believed in federalism and instead wanted to curtail kurdish rights .
barzani condemned the united states for failing to back the kurds .
we tried to stop bloodshed but the iraqi forces and popular mobilization front ( shi ite militias ) kept advancing , using u.s. weapons , he said .
our people should now question , whether the u.s. was aware of iraq s attack and why they did not prevent it .
asked for reaction to barzani s resignation , a u.s. state department spokesperson said : i would refer you to kurdistan officials for information on president barzani .
also , we are not going to get into any private diplomatic discussions .
barzani has been criticized by kurdish opponents for the loss of the city of kirkuk , oil-rich and considered by many kurds to be their spiritual home .
his resignation could help facilitate a reconciliation between the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) and iraq s central government , whose retaliatory measures since the referendum have transformed the balance of power in the north .
barzani has led the krg since it was established in 2005 .
his second term expired in 2013 but was extended without elections being held as islamic state militants swept across vast swathes of territory in iraq and syria .
u.s.-backed iraqi government forces , iranian-backed paramilitaries and kurdish fighters fought alongside each other to defeat islamic state but the alliance has faltered since the militants were largely defeated in the country .
after the kurdish vote , iraqi troops were ordered by the country s prime minister haider al-abadi to take control of areas claimed by both baghdad and the krg .
abadi also wants to take control of the border crossings between the kurdish region and turkey , iran and syria , including one through which an oil export pipeline crosses into turkey , carrying iraqi and kurdish crude oil .
the fall of kirkuk - a multi-ethnic city which lies outside the krg s official boundaries - to iraqi forces on oct. 16 was a major symbolic and financial blow to the kurds independence drive because it halved the region s oil export revenue .
iraqi forces and the peshmerga started a second round of talks on sunday to resolve a conflict over control of the kurdistan region s border crossings , iraqi state tv said .
a first round was held on friday and saturday , with abadi ordering a 24-hour suspension on friday of military operations against kurdish forces .
he demanded on thursday that the kurds declare their referendum void , rejecting the krg offer to suspend its independence push to resolve a crisis through talks , saying in a statement : we won t accept anything but its cancellation and the respect of the constitution .