washington ( reuters ) - white house hopefuls ted cruz and marco rubio and 13 other republican u.s. senators on thursday demanded that islamic state fighters be sent to the guantanamo bay detention center , which would boost its population as president barack obama moves to close it .
the lawmakers introduced a resolution expressing the need to detain the fighters at the controversial military prison in guantanamo bay , cuba , after reports that u.s. special operations forces had captured leaders of the militant group .
“ there should be no confusion in the minds of our enemies that , if captured , they will be sent to the detention facility in guantanamo bay to be interrogated , ” rubio said in a statement .
rubio , cruz , billionaire front-runner donald trump and ohio governor john kasich face off in a presidential debate on thursday night in miami .
the resolution was led by senator steve daines .
in addition to rubio and cruz , the co-sponsors were senators jerry moran , cory gardner , tom cotton , mark kirk , orrin hatch , joni ernst , johnny isakson , john boozman , pat roberts , jim inhofe , tim scott and david vitter .
the measure would be nonbinding but underscores the strong resistance in the republican-controlled congress toward obama ’ s efforts to close the detention camp .
obama launched a final push to persuade congress to close the detention center for suspected members of groups such as al qaeda last month .
the obama administration has been trying for years to make good on a pledge the president made at the beginning of his first term in 2009 to close the facility but has faced stiff political opposition .
republican lawmakers insist the prison is an essential tool for holding and interrogating suspects who threaten the united states .
opponents of the detention center say that holding prisoners for years without charge or trial is a human rights violation that goes against fundamental u.s. values and potentially endangers american military personnel .