washington ( reuters ) - no negotiations can be held with north korea until it improves its behavior , a white house official said on wednesday , raising questions about u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson s offer to begin talks with pyongyang any time and without pre-conditions .
given north korea s most recent missile test , clearly right now is not the time , a white house official told reuters .
tillerson said on tuesday the united states was ready to talk any time north korea would like to talk , appearing to back away from a key u.s. demand that pyongyang must first accept that any negotiations would have to be about giving up its nuclear arsenal .
the white house has declined to say whether president donald trump , who has taken a tougher rhetorical line against north korea than tillerson , gave approval for the overture .
a day after tillerson s comments at washington s atlantic council think tank , the white house official , who declined to be named , laid out a more restrictive formula for any diplomatic engagement with north korea .
the administration is united in insisting that any negotiations with north korea must wait until the regime fundamentally improves its behavior , the official said .
as the secretary of state himself has said , this must include , but is not limited to , no further nuclear or missile tests .
in his speech , however , tillerson did not explicitly set a testing freeze as a requirement before talks can begin .
he said it would be tough to talk if pyongyang decided to test another device in the middle of discussions and that a period of quiet would be needed for productive discussions .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert on wednesday appeared to walk back part of tillerson s proposal , saying there would have to be a suspension of north korean nuclear and missile tests for an undefined length of time before any talks could take place .
and we certainly haven t seen that right now , she told reporters , insisting tillerson had not unveiled a new policy and was on the same page as the white house .
tensions between washington and pyongyang over north korea s weapons advances have grown this year and recent exchanges of bellicose rhetoric have fueled fears over the risk of military conflict .
tillerson s relationship with trump has been strained by differences over north korea and other issues , and he has seen his influence diminished within the administration .
senior administration officials said late last month that trump was considering a plan to oust tillerson , though the secretary of state has dismissed that .
tillerson said in his speech that trump has encouraged our diplomatic efforts .
trump , however , tweeted in october that tillerson was wasting his time trying to negotiate with north korea .
tillerson s overture came nearly two weeks after north korea said it had successfully tested a breakthrough intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) that put the entire united states mainland within range .
north korea has made clear it has little interest in negotiations with the united states until it has developed the ability to hit the u.s. mainland with a nuclear-tipped missile , something most experts say it has still not proved .
in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said following tillerson s speech that china welcomed efforts to ease tension and promote dialogue to resolve the north korea standoff .
russia also welcomed tillerson s statement , the interfax news agency cited russian deputy foreign minister sergei ryabkov as saying .
ahead of tillerson s speech , north korean leader kim jong un vowed to develop more nuclear weapons while personally decorating scientists and officials who contributed to the development of pyongyang s most advanced icbm , state media said on wednesday .
despite that , a u.s. official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said tillerson s remarks followed speculation north korea might be willing to talk having announced it had completed a major milestone with last month s missile test and suggested he was trying to take advantage of a potential opening .