dublin ( reuters ) - sinn fein s gerry adams , a pivotal figure in the political life of ireland for almost 50 years , said on saturday he will step down as party leader and complete a generational shift in the former political wing of the irish republican army ( ira ) .
reviled by many as the face of the ira during its campaign against british rule in northern ireland , adams reinvented himself as a peacemaker in the troubled region and then as a populist opposition parliamentarian in the irish republic .
adams said he would be replaced as party president , a position he has held since 1983 , at a party conference next year .
he would also not stand for reelection to the irish parliament .
republicanism has never been stronger ...
but leadership means knowing when it is time for change .
that time is now , adams said in an emotional speech to a packed party conference .
i have complete confidence in the next generation of leaders , he said .
adams stayed on stage as the 2,500-strong crowd , some in tears , gave him a standing ovation and sang a traditional irish song about the road home , followed by the national anthem .
adams will almost certainly hand over to a successor with no direct involvement in the decades of conflict in northern ireland , a prospect that would make sinn fein a more palatable coalition partner in the irish republic where it has never been in power .
deputy leader mary lou mcdonald , an english literature graduate from trinity college dublin who has been at the forefront of a new breed of sinn fein politicians transforming the party s image , is the clear favourite to take over .
that would mean the left-wing party being led on both sides of the irish border by women in their 40s after michelle o neill succeeded martin mcguinness as leader in northern ireland shortly before the former ira commander s death in march .
adams , who will turn 70 next october , has always denied membership of the ira but accusations from former ira fighters that he was involved in its campaign of killings have dogged him throughout his career .
adams was a key figure in the nationalist movement throughout the three decades of violence between catholic militants seeking a united ireland , mainly protestant militants who wanted to maintain northern ireland s position as a part of britain , and the british army .
3,600 died in the conflict , many at the hands of the ira .
as head of the political wing of the ira during its bombing campaigns in 1980s britain , adams was a pariah and banned from speaking on british airwaves , forcing television stations to dub his voice with that of an actor .
he and his party emerged from the political cold in october 1997 when he shook hands with labour prime minister tony blair at their first meeting .
a year later , he helped win sceptical elements in the ira to the good friday peace deal , which largely ended the violence .
since the peace deal adams and mcguinness turned sinn fein from a fringe party into the dominant irish nationalist party in northern ireland and the third largest party in south of the border .
while its anti-austerity platform led to a six-fold increase in its number of seats in the republic - 23 out of 158 - suspicion of sinn fein s role in the northern ireland troubles still runs deep and the far larger ruling fine gael and or main opposition fianna fail have ruled out governing alongside them .
analysts say a change of leader could help open the way to sinn fein entering government in dublin for the first time .
under a new sinn fein leader i think anything is possible , said david farrell , politics professor at university college dublin .
a new sinn fein leader will also take over responsibility for rescuing power-sharing devolved government in northern ireland and avoid a return to full direct rule from london for the first time in decade .
power-sharing collapsed after sinn fein withdrew in january saying the democratic unionist party was not treating it as an equal partner and a series of talks have failed to break the impasse .