the left is not able to get away with shaming conservatives as easily as they were in the past .
outspoken conservative gop presidential candidates like donald trump , ben carson , ted cruz , mike huckabee and carly fiorina started fighting back against the liberal media at the outset of the presidential election season , opening the door for conservatives like steve cortes to fight back when appropriate and boy , was this the appropriate time ! msnbc s joy reid , filling in for chris hayes , goes head-to-head with steve cortes , a latino trump supporter of donald trump , for using the term illegals to describe illegal immigrants.reid was also incredulous that cortes would use that term , being that he is a hispanic .
cortes told reid his parents came to the u.s. legally .
she wasn t impressed and lectured cortes that she is also the daughter of immigrants .
when it comes to the bedrock principles , i don t disagree with him at all , cortes defended trump on thursday s broadcast of msnbc s all in with chris hayes .
those are twofold .
number one , we have to secure our border .
number two , there can be no citizenship for illegals .
you can not reward criminality .
reid stopped him right there .
hold on a second , the msnbcer said .
i m going to stop you right there .
you are hispanic , steve .
are you comfortable with that term , illegals ?
that is a pejorative to a lot of people .
why do you use that term ?
reid asked , not believing a latino would use such a term .
you know why , because words matter , cortes said .
yeah , they do , reid shot back .
if you do something that is against the law , it s illegal , cortes reminded reid .
if you go into a store and you shoplift , you re not an undocumented holder of a good , you re a thief .
if you come to the united states against the immigration laws of the united states , you re not undocumented , you re illegal .
you said that you didn t agree with all the things he said last night .
point out two or three of the things that you did not like ?
reid asked .
joy , listen , i would have a softer tone on illegals , cortes suggested.this time the interview came to a screeching halt .
can you do me a favor ?
just while you re talking to me , can you not use that terminology ?
a very offended reid asked .
no , i will not do you that favor , cortes responded .
oh , interesting , a stunned reid said .
because the english language matters , cortes told reid .
they re here illegally .
we can t get over that .
my father came here legally .
real clear politics