beijing/manila ( reuters ) - china and the philippines have agreed to avoid force to resolve their differences over the south china sea , according to a joint statement issued on thursday by china at the end of a visit to manila by chinese premier li keqiang .
china and the philippines have long sparred over the south china sea , but relations have improved considerably under philippine president rodrigo duterte .
malaysia , taiwan , brunei , vietnam and the philippines claim some or all of the south china sea and its myriad shoals , reefs and islands .
china claims most of the waterway and has been aggressively building and militarizing artificial islands .
the joint statement , carried by china s official xinhua news agency , said china and the philippines reaffirmed the importance of peace in the south china sea and of freedom of navigation and overflight .
there should be no violence or threats of violence and the dispute should be resolved via talks between the relevant sovereign countries , it added .
both sides believe that the maritime dispute is not the full sum of the china-philippines relationship , the statement said .
in a separate statement summing up discussions at the association of southeast asian nations summit , duterte took note of the improving relations between asean and china in the south china sea .
in view of this positive momentum , we looked forward to the announcement of the start of substantive negotiations on the code of conduct ( coc ) with china he said , hopefully in early 2018 in vietnam , where the two sides will meet at the earliest .
asean and china have been discussing a set of rules on how to behave in the disputed waters to avoid accidents and raising tension .
duterte said the two sides also had successfully tested the hotline among foreign ministries on how to manage maritime emergencies .
in our view , these are practical measures that could reduce tensions , and the risks of accidents , misunderstandings and miscalculation , he said .