london ( reuters ) - myanmar leader aung san suu kyi has been stripped of a human rights award by the city of oxford , where she was an undergraduate , as british institutions increasingly distance themselves from the beleaguered former rights icon .
oxford city council voted unanimously this week to recommend suu kyi s freedom of the city award be withdrawn , citing deep concerns over the treatment of rohingya muslims under her watch .
the city s reputation is tarnished by honoring those who turn a blind eye to violence , local councilor and labour party member mary clarkson said in a speech proposing the motion .
over 500,000 members of myanmar s rohingya minority have fled across the border to bangladesh since late august , when militant rohingya attacks led to a violent crackdown by the army .
myanmar s de facto leader suu kyi , previously renowned for her human rights activism , has been widely criticized for her silence on the subject .
while the un calls the situation a textbook example of ethnic cleansing , aung san suu kyi denies any ethnic cleansing and dismisses numerous claims of sexual violence against rohingya women as fake rape , clarkson said .
in a speech in late september , her first public statement on the subject since the exodus of refugees began , suu kyi said her government condemned all human rights violations and promised to punish perpetrators .
but she did not address accusations of ethnic cleansing and did not criticize the army s actions .
her speech was described as little more than a mix of untruths and victim-blaming by amnesty international director for the region , james gomez .
a similar freedom of the city award is being considered for withdrawal by sheffield city council in the north of england , after residents submitted a petition last month .
the award will likely be reviewed by councillors this month , the council s democratic services team , which handles petitions , told reuters .
oxford university college st hugh s , suu kyi s alma mater , removed her portrait last week from public display while unison , britain s second-largest trade union , announced last month it would suspend her honorary membership .