kampala ( reuters ) - uganda s parliament abruptly adjourned a debate on tuesday over extending president yoweri museveni s decades in power after a lawmaker said soldiers had entered the building and members of parliament scuffled with police .
there were so many ( soldiers ) , i saw them .
they were in the chaplaincy , legislator gaffa mbwatekamwa , among several in museveni s ruling party who oppose extending his rule , told a local television station .
scuffles broke out between lawmakers and police shortly after speaker rebecca kadaga adjourned the debate , just moments starting it early on tuesday .
it was unclear what triggered the confrontation .
television footage showed chaotic scenes of lawmakers and police both trying to address the cameras .
the incident followed a similar disruption to a debate on the issue in september .
the army did not immediately reply to a request for comment .
police spokesman emilian kayima said they had no immediate comment but would issue a statement later .
lawmakers were debating a draft bill that would remove a constitutional age cap that bars museveni from standing again .
the constitution limits the age of a presidential candidate to 75 , making 73-year-old museveni ineligible to stand at the next election in 2021 .
museveni has ruled for 31 years but public anger is mounting over corruption , rights violations and poor social services .
the opposition , church leaders , and even some members of the ruling party oppose the amendment .
police have put down protests against it using teargas , beatings , detentions and live bullets .
at least two people have been killed .
a previous attempt to debate the bill in september ended with lawmakers trading punches and throwing chairs and the forcible intervention of security forces .
several legislators were hospitalized with injuries .
mbwatekamwa said he recognized some members of the military in parliament from the fracas in september .
some are in civilian clothes , some of the soldiers are the ones who manhandled us the other time , he said .
proceedings resumed about two hours after they were suspended and stretched on for about seven hours before kadaga adjourned them again to wednesday , when a final vote on the bill is expected .
the latest attempt to debate the law started on monday with the presentation of a report by a house committee .
the speaker suspended six legislators opposed to the measure on monday for disorderly conduct .
both police and military have been deployed around parliament this week .
lawmakers say the heavy security is designed to intimidate them , but police say it is to prevent protests .
the military usually does not comment on political matters .
several african leaders have amended laws designed to limit their tenure .
such moves have fueled violence in countries including burundi , democratic republic of congo and south sudan .