caller-times : speaking on cnn wednesday , the fourth-term congressman refuted a widely believed conclusion that the russian government interfered with the u.s. presidential election to aid president donald trump s campaign and instead indicated a conspiracy theory about a slain democratic national committee staffer could be true .
my fear is our constant focusing on the russians is deflecting away for some other things that we need to be investigating , farenthold said on the network .
there s still some question as to whether the intrusion of the dnc server was an insider job or whether or not it was the russians .
later wednesday , farenthold elaborated on his opinion of how the investigation should be handled in a phone interview with the caller-times .
the death should be investigated in the same manner russian interference has been reviewed , he said .
that should be a part of the ongoing investigation into alleged russian interference in the election , because that s an alternative theory that deserves being looked at , farenthold said.watch how quickly cnn hosts john berman and poppy harlow attack congressman farenthold when he even suggests there s something suspicious about the supposed robbery gone bad ( where no valuables were stolen ) that lead to the murder of dnc staffer seth rich .
just now @ farenthold on @ cnn suggests the dnc hack was an insider job , '' sources stuff circulating on the internet https : //t.co/97zytnwhvr haley draznin ( @ haleydraz ) may 24 , 2017while he has not formed an opinion on the nature of rich s death , farenthold said the theory that it was a retaliatory killing for leaking committee information is as credible as the anonymous sources being cited in the ( former-fbi director james ) comey and russian stories against president trump .
farenthold said the russian conclusion is premature until there s a review of democratic committee s computer system by an independent investigator .
we re relying only on the report of somebody that the dnc contracted to examine their computer rather than having federal officials , farenthold said .
to me , we need to let the feds look at it .
watch :