seth rich was hired by the democrat party as the official voter expansion data director .
although there is no connection yet , he was clearly privy to information that could potentially harm the democrat party , and more specifically hillary clinton s chances of winning the election in november .
he was shot in the back several times but wasn t robbed .
he was left to die a short distance from his home in gun-free washington d.c .
possible whistle blower on democratic party voter # fraud assassinated in washington dc , not in msm https : //t.co/cbem0ajvw5 # dnc egypt built ( @ hosamdakhakhni ) july 12 , 2016rich s death isn t the only suspicious death with ties to the clintons .
a un official tied to the clintons was found in his apartment with his throat crushed by a barbell last month the un claimed he died of a heart attack .
read here.washington dc police are offering a $ 25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the killer or killers of seth rich , the idealistic young dnc employee who was mysteriously shot multiple times in the back on sunday night in affluent northwest dc.at the same time , police are still not giving out any more information about the investigation beyond saying that they have not yet connected the killing to a robbery .
officers have been canvassing the once-cheery bloomingdale neighborhood where rich lived and died , knocking on doors and asking for information.there is still no suspect , no motive , and no arrests .
as a result , conspiracy theories about rich s murder continue to fly around washington and around social media worldwide.rich was shot while walking home after 4 a-m on sunday morning .
he was on the phone with his girlfriend just before the attack .
police say his body bore injuries indicating that rich fought for his life.rich s father told the local tv station in his hometown of omaha that the killers took nothing from his son s body .
if it was a robbery-it failed because he still has his watch , he still has his money-he still has his credit cards , still had his phone so it was a wasted effort except we lost a life , joel rich told kmtv.at a tuesday news conference about dc crime statistics , dc police chief cathy l. lanier , stated that overall robberies were down in the city .
when asked specifically about seth rich s murder , she said it has not been determined whether his death could be linked to a robbery.conspiracy theories abound over rich s death .
the most controversial theory is that rich was on his way , in the dead of night , to meet with the fbi and inform on alleged voter fraud by hillary clinton and dnc boss debbie wasserman schultz .
the theory goes that he was murdered to keep him silent .
heatstreetanita moncreif worked for acorn during obama shere are some interesting facts surrounding the clinton connections with seth rich : seth rich was a young washington d.c insider , hired by the democratic national committee/convention , who was assassinated early this morning , july 11th .
he was hired by democratic national committee chairwoman ( and former co-chair of hillary clinton s 2008 campaign ) debbie wasserman-schultz in june 2014 as the official voter expansion data director for this election season.here is what i personally find suspicious about his very recent death : debbie wasserman-schultz criticized the bernie sanders campaign of hacking into the ngp van voter database back in december of last year .
ngp van has previously contributed to the clinton campaign .
in addition , it could have been entirely possible , given the many scandals surrounding clinton , that the clinton campaign may have taken crucial information or restricted the sanders campaign from having stronger momentum in the days leading up to the iowa primary .
this is an entirely different topic though .
certainly mr. rich would have been aware of the particular data hacked or taken at this time.mr .
rich was hired by the dnc in june 2014 .
earlier in 2014 , the clintons announced a voter initiative project meant at counteracting voter id laws & the stripping of provisions in the 1964 civil rights act .
another intention of this collaboration with the dnc was to increase voter turnout .
mrs. wasserman-schultz at the time said she wished to make sure that everyone who wants to vote and is eligible has an opportunity to register , has an opportunity to turnout and can have their vote accurately counted .
however , it has been noted continuously by progressive media and r/sandersforpresident that mrs. wasserman-schultz has deliberately done everything in her power to discourage voters from having their voices heard/accurately counted , thus creating another shield for hillary clinton from potentially losing to an outsider progressive .
could mr. rich have expressed a personal conflicting opinion after the ngp van leak which would ve made mrs. wasserman-schultz more angry ? another reddit user on r/politics noticed that mr. rich s linkedin page detailed his work for a firm called greenberg quinlan rosner .
the ceo of this firm is a man named stan greenberg , a man who was a leading political strategist for bill clinton during his presidency .
this man also re-branded bp as a green petroleum company .
is it possible that mr. rich was aware of the public s disdain for oil industry/fracking ?
clearly going against the oil industry would mean a significant loss of profits .
the u.s , as it is , has been oil dependent for ages , and the fight to change the climate has never been hotter than right now.in the months leading up to the bp oil spill , mr. rich was also a legislative affairs consultant for another firm called kissel e & s associates .
when i happened to google kissel e & s associates , clinton , one of the front page results led to a university of nebraska paper , and written during hillary clinton s tenure as secretary of state .
this paper is titled conflicts in the licensing process for transcanada s keystone xl pipeline .
the keystone xl pipeline is one of the many positions on which hillary clinton has flip-flopped on .
could mr. rich have dissented with some very powerful oil company interests who were looking to negotiate a backroom deal with the dnc ? mr .
rich also happened to previously work for former nebraska senator & governor ben nelson .
former senator nelson happens to be a more conservative-leaning democrat , but he also happened to be on the committee on appropriations , subcommittees on homeland security/military construction and veterans affairs , and was a member of the international conservation caucus .
senator nelson , in 2010 , was the deciding vote to help block a wall street reform bill .
he also contributed a crucial vote to help pass obamacare back in 2009 .
senator nelson also suddenly quit his position in 2013 , and was at the center of the obamacare supreme court ruling last year .
finally , i don t think that this is related to the conspiracy theory at hand , but last october , his daughter died from an accidental fall.mr .
rich was murdered in the back by an unknown assailant with a gun .
at 4:20 in the morning .
near howard university .
not exactly the type of person who would be targeted in a nicer area of d.c. ( i am aware d.c has lots of impoverished areas/urban decay . )
the district of columbia happens to have a ban on the sale or purchase of handguns , but nearby virginia has some of the most relaxed gun laws in the country .
and although there are many insiders who work for washington d.c , wouldn t it take someone with intelligence to know and particularly target somebody who happened to have crucial intelligence that could decide this election ? the police , as of july 11 , don t have any suspects , witnesses , or surveillance footage at this time .
they also refused to comment if it was possibly related to recent robberies in the neighborhood .
it can be disputed that this was but a botched robbery , however , because nothing was taken from mr. rich s dead body .
one of the earliest rumored victims of the clinton body count was mary mahoney , who died in a similar fashion as she was about to testify against bill clinton ( and who had nothing taken from her body at the time of her death . )
( in comparison , the manson family didn t steal anything from sharon tate s house when they brutally murdered her and others .
the family was also accused of killing multiple potential dissenters during and after manson s trial , for a sickening comparison .
) the timing of this tragedy seems too coincidental /accurately timed .
i think/know that:8a .
mr. rich s sudden death comes the day before bernie sanders is set to endorse hillary clinton at a party unity rally tomorrow .
chairwoman-elect of the nebraska democratic party ( rich s home state ) , jane kleeb , spoke of rich as a young nebraskan who worked on campaigns and stood for progressive issues .
8b .
as of monday the 11th , the democratic national convention is set to take place in exactly two weeks , and the republican national convention in exactly one .
in addition , bernie sanders is set to speak at fdr park on the 24th , about where the political revolution goes from here.8c .
hillary-supporting governor of connecticut dan malloy is currently under investigation over a cigna merger .
hillary-supporting u.s rep corinne brown is also currently under investigation over her super-gerrymandered florida district ( wasserman-schultz is from florida ) .8d .
there are currently rico lawsuits investigating multiple counts of electoral fraud , and surprisingly , these lawsuits are pulling through the courts and gaining traction .
mr. rich could have been aware of the american people actually standing a chance with these lawsuits , and given his access to crucial voter data , could have decided to be a dnc defector and testify on behalf of the people in charge of these electoral fraud lawsuits .
8e .
there is still a possibility that russia/julian assange has dnc information and could be planning to leak it to the public in time for the convention .
mr. rich could have known of this .