washington/london ( reuters ) - president barack obama will ask the u.s. congress for more than $ 1.8 billion in emergency funds to fight zika at home and abroad and pursue a vaccine , the white house said on monday , but he added there is no reason to panic over the mosquito-borne virus .
zika , spreading rapidly in south and central america and the caribbean , has been linked to severe birth defects in brazil , and public health officials ’ concern is focused on pregnant women and women who may become pregnant .
obama ’ s request to congress includes $ 200 million for research , development and commercialization of new vaccines and diagnostic tests for the virus .
at least 12 groups are working to develop a vaccine .
on monday , the london-based european medicines agency ( ema ) , europe ’ s drugs regulator , said it established an expert task force to advise companies working on zika vaccines and medicines , mirroring similar action during the two-year-long ebola epidemic that started in december 2013 and the pandemic flu outbreak in 2009 .
there are no vaccines or treatment for zika and none even undergoing clinical studies .
most infected people either have no symptoms or develop mild ones like fever and skin rashes .
“ the good news is this is not like ebola ; people don ’ t die of zika .
a lot of people get it and don ’ t even know that they have it , ” obama told cbs news in an interview aired on monday .
“ but there shouldn ’ t be panic on this .
this is not something where people are going to die from it .
it is something we have to take seriously. ” most of the money sought by obama , who faces pressure from republicans and some fellow democrats to act decisively on zika , would be spent in the united states on testing , surveillance and response in affected areas , including the creation of rapid-response teams to contain outbreak clusters .
at a white house briefing , dr. anne schuchat , principal deputy director of the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention , said she was not expecting “ large-scale amounts of serious zika infections ” in the continental united states as warmer months bring larger and more active mosquito populations .
“ we do think it ’ s likely that we will have limited local transmission in some of the southern states , ” schuchat said .
obama ’ s funding request to congress includes $ 335 million for the u.s. agency for international development to support mosquito-control , maternal health and other zika-related public health efforts in affected countries in the americas .
dr. anthony fauci , director of the u.s. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases , told the white house briefing a vaccine likely would not be widely available “ for a few years. ” fauci said he anticipated beginning a so-called phase 1 trial this summer for a zika vaccine that would take about three months to test if it is safe and induces a good immune response before further studies can be conducted .
the cdc said its zika emergency operations center , with a staff of 300 , has been placed on its highest level of activation , reflecting a need for accelerated preparedness for possible local virus transmission by mosquitoes in the continental united states .
some lawmakers have urged obama to name a zika “ czar ” to head u.s. efforts against the virus , but fauci said he sees no need right now for such an appointment .
much remains unknown about zika , including whether the virus actually causes microcephaly , a condition marked by abnormally small head size that can result in developmental problems .
brazil is investigating the potential link between zika infections and more than 4,000 suspected cases of microcephaly .
researchers have identified evidence of zika infection in 17 of these cases , either in the baby or in the mother , but have not confirmed that zika can cause microcephaly .
word that zika can be spread by sexual transmission and blood transfusions and its discovery in saliva and urine of infected people have added to concern over the virus .
the world health organization declared the outbreak an international health emergency on feb. 1 , citing a “ strongly suspected ” relationship between zika infection in pregnancy to microcephaly .
brazil is grappling with the virus even as it prepares to host the olympic games in rio de janeiro in august , with tens of thousands of athletes and tourists anticipated .
the u.s. olympic committee has told u.s. sports federations that athletes and staff concerned about their health due to zika should consider not going to the olympics .
the message was delivered in a conference call involving usoc officials and leaders of u.s. sports federations in late january .
former olympian donald anthony , president and board chairman of usa fencing , said , “ one of the things that they immediately said was , especially for women that may be pregnant or even thinking of getting pregnant , that whether you are scheduled to go to rio or no , that you shouldn ’ t go. ” at the white house , fauci said athletes would need to make a personal decision about whether or not to skip the olympics .