goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - the bodies of 26 people believed killed after an ambush last week in eastern democratic republic of congo have been discovered , most of them with their hands tied and their necks broken , a local chief said on sunday .
the victims disappeared a week ago after they were ambushed by militants on a main road in north kivu s restive beni territory , where more than 800 people were killed in dozens of massacres between 2014 and 2016 .
the attack , which followed a lull this year , has revived questions about the state s ability to impose order over eastern borderlands wracked by ethnic tensions and competition for mineral resources .
congolese authorities and u.n. officials initially believed that about 20 civilians had disappeared after being attacked by armed assailants and were likely to have been killed .
they were unable to locate the bodies for days , however , due to intense fighting .
a group including officials from congo s u.n. mission monusco , the army , the congolese red cross , and congolese authorities traveled to the scene of the killings on sunday .
in total , 26 people three women , 22 civilian men and one congolese soldier were tied up and killed by breaking their necks , saambili bamukoka , chief of beni s watalinga chiefdom , told reuters .
a congolese military spokesman had earlier confirmed that the bodies had been discovered near the road , but did not know how many there were .
bodies were found in a state of decomposition , said local army spokesman mak hazukay , adding that the road remained closed to civilian traffic .
we must first have the time to secure the surrounding area .
the day after the attack on the travelers , militants assaulted two nearby military bases , killing two u.n. peacekeepers and injuring 18 others .
the army and u.n. peacekeeping mission blamed the raids on the allied democratic forces ( adf ) , a ugandan islamist group active near the border .
authorities have also accused the adf of carrying out nearly all the massacres of the past three years .
but independent and separate u.n. experts say several armed groups as well as national army commanders have been involved in the killings as they vie for influence in congo s lawless eastern borderlands .
millions died in regional wars that ravaged eastern congo between 1996-2003 and spawned dozens of armed groups that continue to prey on local populations .