phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s parliament voted to change party laws on monday to re-distribute seats if a party is dissolved after the government filed a lawsuit earlier this month to dissolve the main opposition party , part of an escalating political crisis .
lawyers from the interior ministry filed a lawsuit on oct. 6 to demand the dissolution of the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , in a move that would help prime minister hun sen to extend his 32-year rule when the nation votes in an election next year .
the latest move comes amid growing concern from the united nations and rights groups over what they say is cambodia s deteriorating human rights and political situation ahead of the key election .
it follows an exodus by several opposition figures - nearly half of cambodia s opposition parliamentarians fled abroad in september and early october - as hun sen moves to tighten his grip on power by silencing critics in the lead-up to the polls .
the attempt to disband the cnrp comes after its leader , kem sokha , was charged with treason following his arrest on sept.3 .
the government said the cnrp had conspired with foreign advisors to topple the government , citing a 2013 video clip that shows kem sokha talking about a plan to take power with the help of americans .
monday s parliamentary vote on the new amendments was supported by all 67 parliamentarians present from hun sen s ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) , while the cnrp boycotted the morning session .
under the new laws , if a political party abandons its seats , is delisted , is disbanded or dissolved , a list of candidates or members of parliament of that party are no longer valid and beneficial .
the laws require that national election committee re distribute seats to other parties participating in elections within seven days .
cheam yeap , a lawmaker from the ruling cpp party , said the amendments were aimed at guaranteeing long lasting political stability in cambodia .
seeing the actions of betraying the nation and people by the cnrp leader kem sokha , with the obvious evidence , the signatory lawyers asked for the amendments on these four laws , cheam yeap told the parliament on monday .
there was no debate on the amendments on monday and the government has not provided new evidence against kem sokha , besides the 2013 video .
mu sochua , deputy president of the opposition cnrp , who fled cambodia earlier this month in fear of arrest , said that parliament s move was unconstitutional .
it s a total violation of the constitution and the will of the people .
the highest national institution - the national assembly will not be legitimate , mu sochua , who has called for targeted sanctions against cambodia , told reuters by e-mail .
authors and anyone adopting the proposed amendments will take part in putting an end to democracy in cambodia .