chicago ( reuters ) - u.s. presidential candidate donald trump canceled a rally scheduled for friday night in chicago after the event turned into a chaotic scene with thousands of attendees split into opposing camps of supporters of the republican front-runner and protesters inflamed by his candidacy .
a trump campaign staffer took the stage nearly a half hour after the rally was slated to begin and said it would be postponed for safety reasons .
a campaign statement issued slightly later said the event would be held on another unspecified day .
following the announcement , the crowd began to chant and cheer .
scuffles broke out as signs were ripped from hands and police moved in to quickly defuse the most serious scuffles .
cries of “ we dumped trump !
we dumped trump ! ” rose inside the university of illinois at chicago pavilion where the event was held .
an opposing group yelled : “ we want trump !
we want trump ! ” outside the pavilion , chants of “ we shut it down ! ” rippled through the crowd on news of the cancellation .
chicago activists had spent the week leading up to the rally planning how to disrupt it .
trump has become a particularly polarizing candidate in the presidential campaign .
he has both inspired impassioned supporters and ignited a backlash of angry dissent with his promise to build a wall along the u.s.-mexican border to keep out illegal immigrants and his call to temporarily ban the entry of muslims into the country .
one group at friday ’ s event , showing up for racial justice , coordinated with minority student groups on campuses , using group email chains and messaging so that protesters could stay in constant communication .
one of the organizers , nathaniel lewis , 25 , a master ’ s degree student in public health at the university of illinois at chicago , said he was shocked they succeeded in shutting the rally down .
“ i ’ m happy , i ’ m at peace because we came together as a collective , ” lewis told reuters .
“ this is the last thing we expected to happen , it shows the power of unity. ” trump , speaking to msnbc by telephone shortly after the canceled event , said he met with law enforcement after arriving in chicago .
though he believed it would have been possible to move forward , he said he made the “ wise decision ” to postpone the rally to keep everyone safe .
“ we were not consulted or involved in the decision to cancel the event , ” chicago police department spokesman anthony guglielmi told reuters .
trump brushed off questions from msnbc ’ s chris matthews about whether such widespread disruptions were to be expected given the increasingly aggressive tenor of recent campaign events .
trump said his supporters had planned for a peaceful rally but it was derailed by the crowd of protesters .
“ you can ’ t even have a rally in a major city in this country anymore , ” trump said .
“ up until this point we ’ ve had no problem. ” trump told msnbc he expected support for his candidacy would only increase .
earlier in the day , at a rally in st. louis , missouri , trump had been speaking for less than 10 minutes when protesters began interrupting him .
the disruptions continued over the next hour as trump urged security to “ get them out. ” “ can i be honest with you , it adds to the flavor , it ’ s more exciting .
isn ’ t this better than listening to a long boring speech ? ” trump said of the disruptions .
at some events , altercations have turned physical .
in new orleans last week , several protesters supporting the black lives matter movement were dragged out as trump shouted “ get them. ” in fayetteville , north carolina , on wednesday , protesters interrupted trump ’ s speech more than 16 times .
one was punched as he was led from the arena .
jedidiah brown , 29 , dashed onto the chicago stage where trump was expected to speak friday and tore the campaign sign from the podium before police took him outside .
he was not arrested .
“ i was born and raised in chicago so i felt it was my responsibility to let him know he ’ s not welcome here , ” brown said .
“ the message trump is spreading all over the country , it doesn ’ t work here. ” outside , tess king , 25 , a social sciences and law student , was carrying a sign that said “ chicago rejects trump. ” king had tried to get into the rally but the event was canceled before she got in the door .
“ i feel incredibly happy that in our city we managed , through peaceful expression , to make this happen , ” king told reuters .
as the crowd began to trickle out , josh glaspie , 28 , smoked a cigarette on a sidewalk strewn with discarded signs .
glaspie , an army veteran who is trying to open a restaurant in chicago , said he supports trump .
“ trump ’ s not racist , ” glaspie said .
“ these people don ’ t even know why they ’ re protesting. ” ( additional reporting by ginger gibson , eric walsh and amanda becker ; writing by amanda becker ; editing by leslie adler , robert birsel ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .