mark anderson american free presswashington , d.c. donald john trump took to the podium on the capitol building s west side with a look described by connecticut resident ann marie murray as one of humility just before trump was sworn in friday as the 45th president of the united states by chief justice john roberts.the event clearly was seen as inspiring by many .
chicago resident doug sparkman , moments after trump s inaugural address , agreed that he found trump s remarks to be rather jeffersonian , in the sense of being people-based .
in that vein , he yearns for a country run on the basis of principle , not party .
and given what he heard in trump s address , he feels that s possible under the new administration .
action , and putting politics aside , is what we really need for this country , sparkman added.with the whole inaugural ceremony some 20 minutes behind schedule , trump and his family , looking regal and acting highly anticipatory of the challenges that await them , arrived at the capitol around 11:15 a.m .
the new first lady , melania , was escorted to the west balcony to be seated first , wearing a stunning high-necked blue outfit that brought oohs from many in the massive crowd whose view was aided by large screens on both ends of the capitol.trump himself , appearing reflective and solemn , emerged alongside speaker of the house paul ryan and house majority leader kevin mccarthy and was seated at 11:32 .
as the somewhat chilly day spat a little rain here and there , you could feel the heavy anticipation to hear trump take the oath of office .
and soon after former indiana gov .
mike pence was sworn in as vice president by supreme court justice clarence thomas , trump proceeded to begin taking his oath when a group of six agitators erupted in a flurry of slogans and declarations precisely when trump began repeating the words i do solemnly swear .
.
.
this writer , some 10 feet from the protestors in the section eight seating area reasonably close to the presidential podium , could see the anguish on the faces of many of the nearby inaugural attendees , a number of whom traveled long distances to hear their new president take the oath .
but from their vantage point , trump s exchange with roberts was largely drowned out .
it s a testimony to the manners and restraint of the pro-trump attendees that they did not escort the protestors out by force continue this story at afpread more trump news at : 21st century wire trump files