tripoli ( reuters ) - libyan electoral officials announced on wednesday the opening of a two-month voter registration period , though it is unclear when elections will next be held in the divided nation .
the united nations is supporting the voter registration process as it seeks to reconcile rival factions and relaunch a political transition that would lead to new polls .
the u.n. libya mission has previously said it hopes elections can be held by the end of next year , but has also acknowledged complex security , political and legislative challenges to organizing a vote .
libya last held elections in 2014 but the results were disputed , deepening divisions that emerged after the country s 2011 uprising .
the poll led to an escalation of armed conflict and to rival parliaments and governments being set up in the capital and the east .
some libyan political figures have called for elections as a way to break the deadlock after the stalling of a u.n.-backed peace deal signed in late 2015 , with a new u.n. push to amend that deal so far producing no breakthrough .
u.n. libya envoy ghassan salame expressed sympathy with that view at a joint press conference with libya s high national election commission ( hnec ) on wednesday , calling elections the best way to separate competitors .
i heard a large number of those demanding elections , some of whom decided on the type of elections and some who left it vague , salame said .
but he said certain conditions had to be met first , including electoral legislation being passed and libyans agreeing to accept the results in advance .
you do not want these elections to be another area of disagreement between libyans , salame said .
the voter registration period is aimed at updating the voter register and allowing citizens who have not registered in the past to do so , said hnec head emad alsayah .
the registration process will last for 60 days , and the extension of process can be considered as required , he said .
libyans living abroad will be able to register online from feb. 1 .
turnout in national elections in 2014 was low , with 630,000 out of the 1.5 million registered casting a vote .