hillary pretends to care about the black community .
if she cared so much , why is she so willing to carry out the legacy of black genocide by planned parenthood founder and white supremacist margaret sanger ?
if she really cared about the black community , why is she not fighting taxpayer funded planned parenthood abortion clinics on every inner-city corner in america ?
planned parenthood is the largest abortion provider in america .
78 % of their clinics are in minority communities .
blacks make up 12 % of the population , but 35 % of the abortions in america .
colored people are like human weeds and are to be exterminated .
margaret sanger , planned parenthood founderdonald trump made a bold move today that proves his commitment to the black community .
trump issued a call to make permanent the hyde amendment that bans almost all federal taxpayer funding of abortions and is credited with saving the lives of over 1 million americans from abortion .
trump- s call comes as hillary clinton is campaigning in reversing hyde and forcing americans to fund free abortions for women with their tax dollars.every year , congress is forced to fight the battle to protect americans from being forced to pay for abortions with their tax dollars .
democrats annually fight the pro-life budget provision and hope they can eventually reverse it should they take control of both the white house and congress.that has led to pro-life groups calling to the adoption of a permanent law putting hyde in place long-term and making it more difficult for pro-abortion forces to reverse .
today , trump announced his support for such a law.the call for banning taxpayer funding of abortions comes in a new letter from trump .
trump commits to a new policy : making the hyde amendment permanent law to protect taxpayers from having to pay for abortions .
hillary clinton s unwavering commitment to advancing taxpayer-funded abortion on-demand stands in stark contrast to the commitments i ve made , trump writes , to advance the rights of unborn children and their mothers when elected president .
via : life news