the washington post [ compost ] reports : so far , three major corporate sponsors and the nea have felt it necessary to distance themselves from the show , eustis said in an interview thursday .
and i feel just heartsick for the nea .
that they re forced to distance themselves from a work of art oh , my god .
eustis was referring to the statement the national endowment for the arts issued monday , after the public s production of shakespeare s storied play came under attack from ultraconservative websites and even from one of the sons of president trump , who questioned whether it was taxpayer-supported .
they targeted the production because of the obvious references it draws to the current president and the depiction in the play of the assassination of its caesar-as-trump figure , played by gregg henry.donald trump jr. tweeted a message asking if the assassination of his father should be funded by taxpayers : no nea funds have been awarded to support this summer s shakespeare in the park production of julius caesar and there are no nea funds supporting the new york state council on the arts s grant to public theater or its performances , the nea declared , in what struck many in the arts world as an extraordinary act of disavowal .
it came as two high-profile corporate supporters of shakespeare in the park , delta air lines and bank of america , withdrew financial backing , and a third , american express , said that its contributions go exclusively to the public s main theater in downtown manhattan and it did not condone the interpretation staged in central park.instead of recognizing that the theater group had crossed a line that should not have been crossed , eustis is willing to take a loss at the box office in order to keep the assassination of president trump on stage in front of thousands of families in central park : as for the public s future in this climate , eustis said , this is damaging for us and we definitely lost money , and nobody likes losing money .
but we will survive it .
here is the link to get free tickets to the performance .
click here to see a video about how to get free tickets.new york ! who wants to go watch the trump assassination play maybe use some `` free speech '' during the play ? https : //t.co/64wapvqjbt pic.twitter.com/7zdqcjnx7y mike cernovich ( @ cernovich ) june 15 , 2017these twitter users suggest skipping the ticket process and instead use the same techniques as leftist agitators , like whistles and drums or bongos and cowbells to disrupt the production : if it 's in a park ca n't we just go to the park and bring our whistles and drums ralph butler ( @ secure1man ) june 15 , 2017bongos and cowbells for everyone deplorable snuzzlez ( @ snuzzlebabiez ) june 15 , 2017