prague ( reuters ) - andrej babis , the frontrunner to become czech prime minister after this month s election , said on monday he had been formally charged with fraud in a case involving a 2 million euro eu subsidy a decade ago .
babis has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing , saying the investigation was a plot by adversaries who want to prevent him from taking power and cutting corruption links between the eu member country s incumbent politicians and business .
i have received a decision on the commencement of criminal prosecution in the pseudo-case ...
i immediately appealed this decision , babis said in a text message through his spokeswoman .
spokesmen for the prague prosecutor and police were not immediately available for comment .
the charges were expected after police asked parliament in august to lift parliamentary immunity of the billionaire businessman babis , leader of the ano movement , and ano deputy chief jaroslav faltynek .
parliament voted to allow prosecution on sept 6 .
the ano spokeswoman said faltynek , former executive at companies owned by babis , had also been charged with fraud .
he also denies wrongdoing .
babis is almost certain to win a new parliamentary mandate in the oct 20-21 vote , which would renew his immunity .
parliament would have to vote again to lift it to allow the prosecution to go ahead .
ano is expected to win the most votes in the election but fall short of an overall majority in parliament .
several potential coalition parties have said they would not join a government led by babis personally due to the investigation .
the case involves an allegation that babis hid ownership a decade ago of the farm and conference center , capi hnizdo ( stork nest ) , so it would qualify for a european union subsidy that was meant for small businesses .
it would not qualify as part of babis s agrofert group of companies which is the largest private employer in the central european country .
babis said it was owned by his family members when the subsidy was awarded .
it was folded into agrofert later .
babis and faltynek , a former executive at agrofert companies , face potential prison sentences if the case is brought to court and if they are found guilty .
the slovak-born babis moved agrofert and other assets into trust funds earlier this year to meet new conflict of interest legislation .
he remains beneficiary of the funds .
apart from police , the european union s anti-fraud unit olaf has also been looking into the case .