mexico city ( reuters ) - mired in allegations of corruption , mexico s ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) has thrown its weight behind an untainted outsider in a bid to clean up its image and hang on to the presidency in elections next july .
but having never been a member of the party , former finance minister and pri presidential hopeful jose antonio meade faces a delicate balancing act persuading undecided voters he will cut out graft without alienating the grassroots support he needs to win .
it is proving to be a tough job .
the awkward symbiosis limits meade s ability to play to the strengths that pri grandees hope will overcome the accusations of embezzlement , fraud and vote buying that have plagued the party under president enrique pena nieto .
reliant on the pri machinery to deliver votes , meade must wrap himself in the party banner , while distancing his campaign from the failures of the outgoing government he also represents .
he s between a rock and a hard place , said andres rozental , a former deputy mexican foreign minister .
pena nieto is constitutionally barred from re-election , and the centrist pri will not formally elect its candidate until feb. 18 .
however , the party has lined up behind meade , who held various cabinet posts across two opposing administrations before announcing his run late last month .
meade , a technocrat with a sharp command of the minutiae of the economy , launched his campaign for the pri candidacy in a straw sombrero festooned with red and green streamers in the poor southern town of san juan chamula on dec. 14 .
meade acknowledged pena nieto in his speech , which called for a secure and just mexico .
but he did not detail policies or directly address corruption .
like the president , he has said graft must be attacked by strengthening institutions .
in subsequent outings to rally the pri faithful , he has continued to frame his vision in general terms - prompting expressions of dismay by some of his supporters .
it s a typical pri campaign , said one pro-meade lawmaker , shaking his head , and speaking on condition of anonymity .
polls show meade has plenty of work to do .
a survey by polling firm parametria published on dec. 19 put him 11 percentage points behind leftist front-runner andres manuel lopez obrador , a former mexico city mayor who has spent years railing against corruption and inequality .
another survey , by pollster mitofsky , showed this month that 57.4 percent of voters reject the pri , up nearly seven points from october , and 17 points more than any other party .
in december 2011 , the same point in the previous campaign , the pri had a lead of about 17 points and only one in five voters rejected the party , according to mitofsky data .
serving in the cabinet for almost seven years running , meade has sold himself as irreproachably honest and the safest pair of hands for the economy , painting lopez obrador and conservative rival ricardo anaya as risky bets for mexico s stability .
however , his time in government has left the 48-year-old with a problematic legacy to defend .
gang violence has worsened in the past couple of years , with murders hitting a record high in 2017 .
[ l1n1on0eq ] meanwhile the economy is growing at barely 2 percent annually , less than half the rate the government first targeted , inflation is near a 16-year high and the peso has depreciated by more than 34 percent against the dollar under pena nieto .
a study by the pew research center in september identified crime and corruption as the top concerns for mexicans .
as standard-bearer for an unpopular government , meade has to present more compelling solutions to those problems than his rivals , said one senior official backing him .
it was one of this government s biggest mistakes not to see the damage that corruption could do to its reputation , said the official , who also spoke on condition of anonymity .
the official said he believed meade s policies could become clearer once he is formally invested as pri candidate .
meade s campaign did not reply to requests for comment .
another government official closely following the campaign said that while meade could recognize failings in the pri , he could not be expected to attack the party .
you can t take the pri s core vote for granted , the official said .
with some pri governors , lawmakers and pena nieto facing allegations of corruption , it could be suicidal for meade to push a tough line on graft , said juan pardinas , general director of the mexican institute for competitiveness , a think tank .
how could you ( take ) a strong stance against corruption , being the pri candidate ? , he asked .
it s like ( taking ) a strong stance against racism at a ku klux klan rally .