khobar , saudi arabia ( reuters ) - a saudi man was arrested for allegedly threatening to attack women drivers , the interior ministry said on friday , following a royal decree that ends a ban on women driving in the kingdom .
many saudis welcomed tuesday s announcement by king salman lifting the ban by next year , but some expressed confusion or outrage after the reversal of a policy that has been backed for decades by prominent clerics .
the ministry said on twitter that police in the kingdom s eastern province had arrested the suspect , who was not identified , and referred him to the public prosecutor .
i swear to god , any woman whose car breaks down - i will burn her and her car , said a man wearing a traditional white robe who appeared in a short video distributed online earlier in the week .
reuters could not independently verify the authenticity of the video .
saudi media , including the arabic-language okaz newspaper , quoted the eastern province s police spokesman as saying the man in custody was in his 20s and that the arrest had been ordered by its governor .
separately , okaz reported late on thursday that authorities directed the interior minister to prepare an anti-harassment law within 60 days .
the directions cited the danger posed by harassment ... and its contradiction with the values of islam .
saudi authorities have in the past taken a broad view of sexual harassment , including attempts by men to get to know unrelated women by asking to exchange phone numbers or commenting on their beauty .
in a country where gender segregation has been strictly enforced for decades in keeping with the austere wahhabi form of sunni islam , the end of the driving ban means women will have more contact with unrelated men , such as fellow drivers and traffic police .
the ban is a conservative tradition that limits women s mobility and has been seen by rights activists as an emblem of their suppression .
saudi arabia is the only country in the world that still bans women from driving .