london ( reuters ) - damian green , number two in the british government , has denied an allegation that he made an inappropriate sexual advance on a young woman as discussion about an unhealthy culture of abuse by powerful men in british politics continues to swirl .
green , prime minister theresa may s deputy , said it was not true that he had touched the woman s knee and told her that his wife was very understanding during a meeting in a pub in which the pair discussed her career aspirations and gossiped about sexual affairs in parliament .
as the shockwaves from the harvey weinstein sexual harassment scandal reverberate around the world , the westminster parliament is among institutions now facing allegations of improper behavior by men in powerful positions .
the allegation against green came from kate maltby , an academic and critic three decades younger than him .
she first met him as an acquaintance of her parents , and both are involved in a liberal conservative group called bright blue .
he offered me career advice and in the same breath made it clear he was sexually interested , maltby wrote in an article in the times newspaper describing the meeting in the pub in early 2015 .
it was not acceptable to me at the time and it should not be acceptable behavior in westminster in the future , she said .
a spokesman for may s downing street office said green strongly denied the allegation made against him .
the prime minister has referred the matter to the cabinet secretary to establish the facts and report back as soon as possible , the spokesman said .
maltby wrote that she had no contact with green for a year after the meeting in the pub because she wanted nothing to do with him .
a year later , maltby wrote an article for the times about the history of corsets , which was published with a picture of her wearing one .
after the article appeared , she received a text message from green that said : long time no see .
but having admired you in a corset in my favorite tabloid i feel impelled to ask if you are free for a drink anytime ?
the times quoted green as saying : it is absolutely and completely untrue that i ve ever made any sexual advance on ms maltby .
he said the allegation of the advance in the pub was deeply hurtful from someone he considered a personal friend , and that the text he sent her referring to the corset picture was sent in the spirit of friends agreeing to meet for a regular catch-up .