beirut ( reuters ) - lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri rescinded his resignation on tuesday , drawing a line under a month-long crisis triggered when he announced from riyadh that he was stepping down and remained outside lebanon for weeks .
his coalition government , which includes the iran-backed hezbollah group , reaffirmed a state policy of staying out of conflicts in arab states .
hariri s saudi allies accuse hezbollah of waging war across the middle east as agents of iran .
hariri s shock resignation had thrust lebanon to the forefront of the regional quarrel between saudi arabia and iran , which has been played out on battlefields in syria , iraq and yemen .
lebanese officials said saudi arabia had coerced hariri , a long-time saudi ally , into resigning and put him under effective house arrest until an intervention by france led to his return to lebanon .
saudi arabia and hariri have denied this .
president michel aoun , a hezbollah ally , refused to accept his resignation while he remained abroad .
saudi concern over the influence wielded by shi ite muslim iran and hezbollah in other arab states had been widely seen as the root cause of the crisis , which raised fears for lebanon s economic and political stability .
the lebanese policy of dissociation was declared in 2012 to keep the deeply divided state out of regional conflicts such as the civil war in neighbouring syria .
despite the policy , hezbollah is heavily involved there , sending thousands of fighters to help president bashar al-assad .
in its first meeting since hariri s resignation , the cabinet on tuesday reaffirmed its commitment to the policy .
all ( the government s ) political components decide to dissociate themselves from all conflicts , disputes , wars or the internal affairs of brother arab countries , in order to preserve lebanon s economic and political relations , hariri said .
lebanon , where sunni muslim , shi ite , christian and druze groups fought a civil war from 1975-1990 , has a governing system designed to share power among sectarian groups .
hariri , a wealthy sunni businessman with long ties to the kingdom , had denounced iran during his resignation speech and said he was outside lebanon because he feared for his family s safety .
his father , an ex-prime minister , was assassinated in 2005 .
in a speech during the cabinet session , hariri warned that the tensions in the region could easily drag lebanon down a dangerous route , and the issues which had led to the crisis could not be ignored .
developments in the region suggest a new wave of conflict ... perhaps the conflict is nearing the end , and lebanon can not be plunged into chaos on the finish line .
if we are rejecting interference by any state in lebanese affairs , it can not be that we accept that any lebanese side interferes in the affairs of arab states , hariri said , an apparent reference to hezbollah .
we have to address this issue , and take a decision announcing our disassociation , in words and deeds , he said .
hariri s resignation was accompanied by a sharp escalation in saudi statements targeting the lebanese state , with riyadh at one point accusing the beirut government of declaring war against it .
western governments , including the united states , stressed their support for hariri and lebanon .
hariri will be in paris on friday for a meeting of the international lebanon support group , a body that includes the five members of the u.n. security council - britain , china , france , russia and the united states .
the meeting , to be opened by french president emmanuel macron , aims in part to put pressure on saudi arabia and iran to desist from interference in lebanon , diplomats said .
( this version of the story re-inserts the word not in paragraph 13 )