dubai ( reuters ) - yemen s houthi leader abdel-malek al-houthi said on thursday his group could target saudi oil tankers should saudi arabia attack yemen s main port at hodeidah .
we could target saudi oil tankers and we could do anything , he said .
in a televised speech , the leader also said his group s ballistic missiles were capable of reaching the united arab emirates capital of abu dhabi and anywhere inside saudi arabia .
it was unclear whether the houthi group has the capability to carry out its threats .
abdel malek said the houthis had successfully fired a missile at abu dhabi earlier this month , meaning the united arab emirates was no longer safe from attack .
he gave no further details and there has been no indication by the uae of any missiles landing on their territory .
uae minister of state for foreign affairs anwar gargash said on twitter his country was not intimidated by houthi threats .
the houthis comments threatening the uae and its capital are tangible proof of the need for the decisive storm ( operation ) , gargash said , referring to the saudi-led coalition intervening in yemen .
iran s militias have vile objectives and represent a real threat , he added .
yemen has been devastated by more than two years of civil war in which president abd rabu hadi s government , backed by the coalition , is fighting to drive the iran-allied houthis out of cities they seized in 2014 and 2015 in a rapid rise to national power .
today the port of hodeidah is being threatened and we can not turn a blind eye to that , abdel-malek said .
if the saudi regime and with a green light from the u.s. attack hodeidah then we have to take steps that we haven t taken before .
the united nations had proposed that the red sea port of hodeidah , where 80 percent of food imports arrive , should be handed to a neutral party , to smooth the flow of humanitarian relief and prevent the port being engulfed by yemen s two-year-old war .
the government of president abd-rabbu mansour hadi accuses the houthis of using the port to smuggle in weapons and of collecting custom duties on goods , which they use to finance the war .
the houthis deny this .