ankara/istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey criticized what it said was a feeble arab reaction to the u.s. decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , saying on the eve of wednesday s muslim summit in istanbul that some arab countries were scared of angering washington .
president tayyip erdogan , who has accused the united states of ignoring palestinian claims to israeli-occupied east jerusalem and trampling on international law , has invited leaders from more than 50 muslim countries to agree a response .
jerusalem , revered by jews , christians and muslims alike , is home to islam s third holiest site and has been at the heart of israeli-palestinian conflict for decades .
u.s. president donald trump s announcement last week recognizing the city as israel s capital angered many muslim countries , but few governments have matched turkey s warning that it would plunge the world into a fire with no end .
several countries had still not said who they would send to istanbul , a turkish minister said .
some arab countries have shown very weak responses ( on jerusalem ) , foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu said .
it seems some countries are very timid of the united states .
he said egypt and the united arab emirates would send foreign ministers while saudi arabia had yet to say how it would participate .
all three countries have delicate ties with turkey , seeing links between the policies of erdogan s islamist-rooted ruling ak party and regional islamist movements they oppose .
other countries had also not said who they would send , cavusoglu said , adding that the meeting of organisation of islamic cooperation countries must stand up to what he called washington s i am a super power , i can do anything mentality .
we will make a call for countries that have so far not recognized palestine to do so now , he said .
... we want the united states to turn back from its mistake .
trump s announcement triggered days of protests across the muslim world and clashes between palestinians and israeli security forces in the west bank , gaza and east jerusalem .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war and later annexed it , an action not recognized internationally .
on monday , tens of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in beirut to protest at a march backed by hezbollah , the heavily armed iran-backed shi ite group whose leader called last week for a new palestinian uprising against israel .
iranian president hassan rouhani , who is expected to attend the istanbul summit , said his country supported a new uprising against israel to safeguard the palestinian people s rights .
rouhani said muslim countries would undoubtedly voice their protest to the world at wednesday s meeting .
iran supports several anti-israel militant groups .
the mainly shi ite country is also competing for power and influence in the middle east with predominantly sunni muslim saudi arabia , a close u.s. ally .
iranian defence minister amir hatami said trump s decision would strengthen israel , and accused some muslim states of cooperating covertly with the israeli government .
we strongly believe that this decision is the result of interaction between israel and some muslim countries , he told his turkish counterpart in a telephone call on tuesday , iran s semi-official tasnim news agency reported .
qassem soleimani , head of the branch of the revolutionary guards that oversees operations outside iran , pledged complete support for palestinian islamic resistance movements on monday .
the trump administration says it remains committed to reaching peace between israel and the palestinians and its decision does not affect jerusalem s future borders or status .
it says any credible future peace deal will place the israeli capital in jerusalem , and ditching old policies is needed to revive a peace process frozen since 2014 .