president trump spoke via pre-recorded video to cole miners at the announcement of the opening of the first coal mine in 6 years .
this is another campaign promise fulfilled ! trump speaking via pre-recorded video to ceremony marking # coal mine opening in somerset county , pa. pic.twitter.com/5oqgajzw4m daniel moore ( @ pgdanielmoore ) june 8 , 2017president trump met with representatives from the coal industry in february of 2016 : president trump keeps proving the doubters wrong he keeps following through with his campaign promises like his promises to bring coal back .
he met with representatives from the coal industry to sign a bill undoing obama s coal mining rule .
the people s president is a worker ! our previous report on scott pruitt s appointment to epa chief the left went bonkers ! oklahoma attorney general scott pruitt is another perfect choice from president-elect donald trump .
he s sued the feds several times for their overreach in regulations on the coal industry .
you have to love his commitment to keeping the federal government on the straight and narrow .
it s funny that so many of trump s picks have gone against obama s policies we love it !
the lefty politicians in dc wasted no time tweeted out their displeasure : when the environmental protection agency proposed rules regulating carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants , scott pruitt sued .
when the justice department offered legal status to young undocumented immigrants , scott pruitt sued .
and when the obama administration sought to give tax credits to states that hadn t set up their own health insurance exchanges , scott pruitt sued.since becoming oklahoma attorney general in 2010 , pruitt has filed or joined lawsuits against federal agencies at least a dozen times .
even when oklahoma isn t an actual party in litigation , the state often submits a legal brief against the federal government .
besides air pollution , immigration and health care , pruitt has fought federal laws and regulations on banking , contraception and endangered species .
these days , whenever states go to court against the obama administration , the chances are that pruitt is somehow involved.not that pruitt is alone .
during obama s presidency , the entire cadre of republican attorneys general ( 27 at present ) has coordinated cases against federal agencies at an unprecedented pace .
but pruitt is at the center of the action .
he has set up a first-in-the-nation federalism unit , which seeks to combat instances of federal overreach by every possible means.read more : governing