mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico s finance minister resigned on monday to seek the 2018 presidential nomination of the ruling party , anticipating a major break with tradition as it seeks outside help to clean up its tarnished image and stay in office for another six years .
jose antonio meade had been widely expected to run for the centrist institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , whose credibility has been seriously undermined by corruption scandals , gang violence and accusations of electoral fraud .
meade is not a pri member , and his reputation for honesty has persuaded many party grandees that he is the best bet to take on the front-runner in the july 2018 presidential race , the leftist former mayor of mexico city , andres manuel lopez obrador .
pri hopefuls can register from dec. 3 , and early indications suggested meade would not face any major challengers .
the pri will formally elect its candidate on feb. 18 .
he was warmly received by party members on a whistle-stop tour of organizations affiliated to the pri in mexico city on monday .
all the other early pri favorites for the presidency expressed their support for him on twitter .
soft-spoken and measured in tone , meade , 48 first entered the cabinet under the previous center-right administration of the national action party , or pan .
his ability to draw votes from other parties is viewed as one of his principal assets .
he ll be an attractive candidate for those who don t necessarily support the pri , tweeted daniel karam , who headed the mexican social security institute during meade s initial cabinet stint under the pan .
eager to mend its reputation , the pri changed its statutes in august to make it easier for outsiders to run for the job the party has held for most of the past century .
at an event at his official residence , president enrique pena nieto said harvard-educated former world bank official jose antonio gonzalez anaya would leave his job as chief executive of state oil company pemex to replace meade in the finance ministry .
in a brief address at the ministry afterward , meade said he would run for the presidency after 20 years of serving my country continuously with integrity and honesty .
lopez obrador , twice runner-up for the presidency , has railed relentlessly for years against government graft .
he quickly lashed out on twitter against the pri as corrupt and predictable after meade made his announcement .
meade remains unknown to much of the mexican public , and in opinion polls he lags far behind the veteran lopez obrador , who has sought to characterize all of the main opposition parties as corrupt extensions of the pri .
serving as energy , then finance minister in 2011 , meade became foreign minister when pena nieto took office in december 2012 .
he later switched to the social development ministry before returning to the finance ministry last year .
seen by allies as a discreet and diplomatic official , meade s grasp of finance and economics is matched by few in mexico , and his academic career includes degrees in law and economics as well as an economics doctorate from yale .
crucially , argue his supporters , he has avoided the damaging scandals that have engulfed the pri under pena nieto , who can not constitutionally seek a second six-year term .
i thank ( meade ) for his dedication and commitment and i wish him success in the project he has decided to undertake , pena nieto said at the event at his los pinos residence .
tv images showed meade driving toward los pinos behind the wheel of a modest compact car , a frequent prop among mexican politicians seeking to project the common touch .
gonzalez anaya , who is related by marriage to influential former president carlos salinas de gortari , will be replaced at pemex by carlos trevino , a senior executive at the company .