geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations has yet to determine whether violence against rohingya muslims in myanmar meets the legal definition of genocide , jyoti sanghera , asia pacific chief at the office of the high commissioner for human rights said on wednesday .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein has called the situation a textbook example of ethnic cleansing , but he has not used the word genocide .
we are yet looking at the legal boundaries of that , sanghera said .
it could meet the boundaries , but we haven t yet made that legal determination at ohchr .
a u.n. team took witness statements from rohingya refugees last month , and another human rights mission is currently on the ground , gathering evidence from some of the 582,000 rohingya who have fled into bangladesh in the last two months .
the testimony gathered by the team referred to unspeakable horrors , sanghera told an audience at geneva s graduate institute .
even as i speak this evening the world is witnessing a horrific spectacle of massive forced displacement and suffering .
a few hundred thousand rohingya are thought to remain in myanmar s northern rakhine state , she said .
the refugees described massive detention and systematic rape by myanmar security forces , deliberate destruction of rohingya villages so that people could not return , and deliberate targeting of cultural and religious leaders that aimed to diminish rohingya history , culture and knowledge , she said .
imams had their beards shaved or burnt off , and women and girls were raped inside mosques .
some refugees said their non-rohingya neighbors had been given weapons and uniforms and worked in concert with the security forces .
unsettled post-colonial questions and tensions fueled by colonial powers of the past have been exploited by the military junta in myanmar to keep ethnic rivalries simmering , sanghera said .
systematic and acute discrimination of the rohingya muslims continues to be kept alive by the democratically elected government of aung san suu kyi , to a point referred to recently by the high commissioner for human rights as ethnic cleansing of an entire people .
designating the rohingya as victims of genocide under a 1948 u.n. convention would increase pressure on the international community to take action to protect them , and could expose myanmar officials to a greater threat of international justice .
the u.n. convention , passed in the wake of the nazi holocaust , requires countries to act to prevent and punish genocide , which it defines as any of a number of acts committed with the intent to destroy , in whole or in part a national , ethnic , racial or religious group .
it is one of four categories of crimes subject to the jurisdiction of the international criminal court in the hague .