international leaders aren t making any secret about their disdain and lack of respect for obama in his final g20 summit philippines president barack obama is threatening to cancel a meeting with philippine president rodrigo d tente after the fiery political figure called the u.s. president a son of a bitch .
according to the associated press , duterte demanded that obama be respectful during the g-20 summit .
otherwise , he said , son of a bitch , i will swear at you in that forum .
duterte was referring to a potential discussion about his violent war on the drug cartels , killing over 2,400 people in the process.during a press conference in china at the g-20 summit , obama hinted that the meeting between himself and duterte could be canceled .
what i ve instructed my team to do is to talk to their philippine counterparts to find out is this in fact a time when we can have constructive , productive conversations , he said.obama said that the united states would always assert the need for due process in prosecution of drug criminals , citing basic international norms .
he added that he would bring it up in a meeting , despite d tente s comments .
breitbartchina the leader of the world s largest economy , who is on his final tour of asia , was forced to disembark from air force one through a little-used exit in the plane s belly after no rolling staircase was provided when he landed in the eastern chinese city on saturday afternoon.when obama did find his way on to a red carpet on the tarmac below there were heated altercations between us and chinese officials , with one chinese official caught on video shouting : this is our country !
this is our airport !
russia president obama shared a tense exchange with russian premier vladimir putin at the g20 summit in china this morning as the two failed to agree over a ceasefire in syria.sly putin could be seen grinning as he clasped hands with stony-faced obama , who is serving the final months of his presidency before november s election .
sun