berlin ( reuters ) - a senior member of the pro-business free democrat ( fdp ) party that is likely to be a partner in chancellor angela merkel s new government said in a magazine interview he did not expect the coalition to form before the end of the year .
next week merkel s conservatives - who remain the biggest bloc in parliament despite losing support to the far right in a september election - are due to start talks on forming a tricky jamaica coalition with the fdp and the greens .
the alliance , which derives its name from the three parties colors matching the jamaican flag , is untried at national level and is likely to be fraught with disagreements on issues like migrants , tax , european union reform and the environment .
asked whether the parties could work together , fdp deputy leader wolfgang kubicki told news magazine der spiegel : it can succeed .
the most important thing is that trust needs to be built between participants and that takes time .
that s why it would be illusory to believe we could conclude negotiations by christmas .
finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said on thursday he was optimistic that merkel and her conservatives - of which he is a member - would be able to forge a new coalition government before christmas .
[ nl8n1mn61d ] merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian sister party ( csu ) removed a major stumbling block to the coalition talks on sunday by ending a dispute over migrant policy with an agreement to limit to 200,000 the number of people germany would accept per year on humanitarian grounds .
[ nl8n1mj0eg ] but kubicki said the deal was just a starting point : if the cdu and csu think their agreement needs to be implemented exactly like that , we ll stand up and leave , he said .
speculation is rife that the fdp will demand the post of finance minister as a price for joining a jamaica coalition and kubicki said it was up to fdp leader christian lindner to decide whether lindner would fill that post or be fdp parliamentary floor leader .
but volker kauder , the cdu s leader in parliament , recently said the finance ministry should remain in the hands of his party to further the work of wolfgang schaeuble - expected to become parliamentary president .
interior minister thomas de maiziere , a member of merkel s conservatives , urged the parties to be pragmatic .
we d be well advised not to be perfectionists in the upcoming coalition negotiations but rather to be open and to build trust that a government will be formed that acts sensibly even during unforeseeable crises , he told newspaper frankfurter allgemeine zeitung .