washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate passed a $ 700 billion defense policy bill on thursday , backing president donald trump ’ s call for a bigger , stronger military , but leaving unsettled how to fund the massive spending increase amid a republican-led push to cut taxes .
the senate passed by voice vote the annual national defense authorization act , or ndaa , which authorizes the level of defense spending and sets policies controlling how the money is spent .
the measure , passed by the house of representatives on tuesday [ l1n1nk2op ] , next goes to the white house for trump ’ s signature .
trump ’ s fellow republicans control majorities in both the house and senate and he is expected to sign the bill .
but the funding may never come to fruition .
the 2018 ndaa defies spending caps set in the 2011 budget control act , passed to help control the budget deficit , and there is no clear plan from congress on how to provide more money for the pentagon .
the senate backed the ndaa on the same day republicans in the house of representatives passed a sweeping tax bill , with no support from democrats , which is expected to increase the federal deficit by nearly $ 1.5 trillion over 10 years .
senate republicans are working on their own version of the measure .
the 2018 ndaa authorizes $ 634 billion in base defense spending , for such things as buying weapons and paying the troops , well above the $ 549 billion allowed under the “ sequestration ” controls set in the budget control act .
it also includes about $ 66 billion in special war funding , which is exempt from the sequestration cap .
the ndaa passed this week is a compromise reached by house and senate negotiators between separate versions of the bill approved in the chambers earlier this year .
a budget fight is expected , however , because senate democrats may not agree to big increases in funds for the military if spending caps on non-defense programs are not also eased .
while senate rules would allow republicans to pass their tax bill without any democratic votes , their senate majority of 52-48 is so small that most legislation , including a change in the sequestration rules , would require democratic votes .