washington ( reuters ) - the white house plan to cut transportation spending , privatize air traffic control and scrap long-distance train service is facing strong resistance in congress .
in may , the trump administration proposed cutting discretionary u.s. transportation department spending by 12.7 percent , or $ 2.4 billion to $ 16.2 billion .
a house of representatives appropriations committee panel this week approved $ 17.8 billion in discretionary spending , $ 1.5 billion above the white house request .
on thursday , transportation secretary elaine chao addressed a u.s. senate appropriations subcommittee hearing .
senator susan collins , a republican who chairs the panel , said she was disappointed in many proposed cuts .
the house panel rejected a white house plan to end subsidies for amtrak to operate long-distance train service , which would have cut $ 630 million of $ 1.4 billion in annual government support for passenger rail service .
the panel also rejected a plan to eliminate $ 150 million in annual subsidies for commercial air service to rural airports .
many lawmakers also opposed the administration ’ s proposal to privatize the air traffic control system .
in june , the senate commerce committee approved proposed changes in federal aviation administration policies .
but unlike a house panel , it did not back spinning off air traffic control .
the house will vote on the privatization plan as soon as next week .
president donald trump says the move would modernize air traffic control and lower flying costs .
the proposal has drawn fire from private plane owners and rural airports .
critics say it would hand control of an important service to special interests and big airlines .
chao said the administration is working to address general aviation concerns .
american airlines group inc ( aal.o ) , united airlines ( ual.n ) and southwest airlines co ( luv.n ) back the proposal .
the trump budget plan would cut $ 206 billion in infrastructure spending over 10 years , including $ 96 billion in planned highway trust fund spending .
at the same time , the white house is proposing $ 200 billion in government funding over 10 years as part of a goal of getting $ 1 trillion in public and private infrastructure spending and plans to unveil details this fall .
chao acknowledged thursday the highway trust funds must be made up and said the administration is studying other options including a mileage tax .
asked if trump is considering a gasoline tax hike , chao said : “ nothing is off the table. ” a house panel also rejected this week the trump administration plan to raise airline passenger security fees by $ 1 to $ 6.60 per one-way trip , which would generate $ 530 million for the transportation safety administration .