washington ( reuters ) - the trump administration on wednesday imposed sanctions against two senior south sudanese officials and the country s former army chief in a warning to the government of president salva kiir over increasing attacks on civilians in the country s four-year civil war .
the u.s. treasury department in a statement on its website said it had blacklisted malek reuben riak rengu , deputy chief of defense for logistics in south sudan s army ; paul malong , former army chief sacked by kiir in may ; and minister of information michael makuei lueth for their roles in destabilizing south sudan .
the measures freeze any assets in the united states or tied to the u.s. financial system belonging to the three men .
mawien makol , spokesman at south sudan s foreign affairs ministry , called washington s announcement unfortunate .
such sanctions can undermine the efforts rather than help the efforts , makol said , referring to a 2015 peace deal .
nathaniel oyet , a senior official in the opposition spla-io group , welcomed the move although added : it has come a bit late .
we wanted it yesterday .
this now gives us the confidence that the donald trump administration will fix the crisis in south sudan , said oyet .
the u.s. crackdown comes days after trump s new aid administrator , mark green , visited south sudan to deliver a blunt message to kiir that washington was reviewing its policy toward his government .
he called on kiir to end the violence and implement a real ceasefire .
the meeting signaled that the trump administration was reconsidering its backing for kiir , who came to power with the support of washington when oil-rich south sudan won independence from neighboring sudan in 2011 following decades of conflict .
but the world s youngest country dissolved into civil war in 2013 after kiir , an ethnic dinka , fired his deputy riek machar , a nuer .
nearly one-third of the country s population - or 4 million people - have fled their homes , creating the continent s largest refugee crisis since the 1994 rwandan genocide .
in its statement , the u.s. treasury said malek reuben was central to weapons procurement during the first few years of the conflict and helped plan an offensive in unity state in april 2015 , which targeted civilians and led to numerous rights abuses .
it also accused him of issuing military contracts at inflated prices in order to receive extensive kickbacks .
the u.s. treasury blacklisted all energy investments , a+ engineering , electronics & media printing and mak international services which it said was owned or controlled by malek reuben .
malong was sacked by kiir in may as army chief and put under house arrest in the capital juba , the country s defense minister told reuters last week .
the u.s. treasury said he was being sanctioned for obstructing peace talks , international peacekeeping efforts and humanitarian missions in south sudan .
the treasury statement said malong was reportedly responsible for efforts to kill machar in 2016 and did not discourage the killing of civilians around the town of wau last year .
it said malong was found with currency worth millions of u.s. dollars in his possession belonging to the military s treasury as he tried to flee juba in early may .
reached by phone in nairobi , malong s wife , ayak lucy , told reuters her husband did not have financial assets in the united states .
she was unaware of the sanctions announcement .
meanwhile , the u.s. treasury accused makuei of attacks against the u.n. mission in south sudan and obstructing of peacekeeping and humanitarian missions in the country .
what do they call it ?
economic sanctions ?
what property do i have in america and all over the world ?
he told reuters in response to the sanctions .