berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel s conservatives hope to draw the social democrats ( spd ) into coalition with offers on healthcare and employment , one of her ministers said , but the two camps remain far apart on tax issues .
merkel s cdu/csu alliance won a national election in september , but she has so far failed to agree terms with other parties on a coalition that would enable her to serve a fourth term .
her best chance now appears to be a reboot of the grand coalition with the centre-left spd that ran germany from 2013 to 2017 and continues to govern in a caretaker capacity .
peter altmaier , acting finance minister and merkel s chancellery chief , told newspaper sueddeutsche zeitung he thought such an alliance was again possible .
the spd had previously said it intended to go into opposition after suffering its worst election result in more than eight decades .
but germany s two biggest political groups are now set to start exploratory coalition talks next month and hope to decide by jan. 12 whether to open full-blown negotiations .
asked what offers the conservatives would make , altmaier said : we ll of course talk with the spd about problems in hospitals and nursing care , improvements for families and children , broadband expansion , qualification for new jobs and how we can reach full employment .
there is overlap with the spd on these areas , he said , adding that helping germany s 900,000 long-term unemployed needed to be a key project - an idea likely to go down well with the spd .
taxation could be a sticking point , however .
senior spd member andrea nahles told german magazine der spiegel her party wanted to press for a higher top rate of tax for individuals and non-listed companies and ensure the wealthy paid more .
the conservatives have rejected the idea of higher taxes for the rich .
altmaier said that while the conservatives would not draw any red lines ahead of the talks , they wanted a coalition treaty to include a pledge not to raise taxes or increase debt .
the spd also wants to scrap germany s dual healthcare system of premium private care and more widely accessible public care to replace it with a single citizen s insurance .
the conservatives fear that would harm competition .
nahles said employers and employees needed to pay the same amount towards public healthcare and doctors fees for public and private healthcare systems should be reviewed .
while the conservatives have made clear they are keen on another grand coalition , the spd has kept the option of tolerating a minority merkel-led government on the table .
the chancellor rejects that idea .
senior spd member and foreign minister sigmar gabriel told the funke newspaper consortium that some of his party colleagues were ready to live with a minority government .
but he said he worried about the implications for europe s stability .
i m rather skeptical , he said in an interview published on friday as political crisis gripped spain , where separatists were set to regain power in catalonia following regional elections .
a shaky government in germany would probably lead to an earthquake in europe - but we need to talk about it .