washington ( reuters ) - the pentagon on tuesday proposed a $ 582.7 billion defense budget that emphasizes emerging threats from russia , china and islamic state rebels , but the plan is already under fire from republican lawmakers who charge it short-changes the u.s. military .
president barack obama ’ s last budget would boost spending on the war against islamic state militants to $ 7.5 billion during the 2017 fiscal year , a 50 percent jump over the $ 5 billion approved this year .
some $ 200 million of that would go to fight militants in north and west africa .
the proposal also would quadruple funds to counter russian pressure in europe , including its seizure of ukraine ’ s crimean peninsula and repeated strategic bomber flights near nato air space .
spending to boost u.s. military presence and training in europe would rise to $ 3.4 billion from $ 800 million this year .
the budget heralds a strategic shift as washington looks beyond the wars in iraq and afghanistan and enters a new period of great power competition from russia and china as well as threats from smaller rivals like iran and north korea , officials said .
“ this budget marks a major inflection point for the department of defense , ” defense secretary ash carter said in a statement .
“ even as we fight today ’ s fights , we must also be prepared for the fights that might come in 10 , 20 or 30 years. ” overall , the administration is seeking a pentagon base budget of $ 523.9 billion for the fiscal year beginning oct. 1 , plus $ 58.8 billion for war funding and overseas operations .
the base budget is about $ 2.5 billion more than this year ’ s while war spending remains relatively flat , officials said .
the spending proposal is in line with a congressional budget deal last year that set pentagon funding guidelines for 2016 and 2017 .
but republican lawmakers have criticized the war funding plan , saying the $ 59 billion figure in the budget deal was a floor , not a ceiling , and the president should have sought more .
“ this request is inadequate to address the national security threats we face , ” senator john mccain , chairman of the senate armed services committee , said in a statement .
congressman mac thornberry , chairman of the house armed services committee , accused the administration of playing “ budgetary games. ” mccain said by seeking the minimum level of war funding in the budget deal , the president had left the pentagon with $ 17 billion less than it estimated it would need for 2017 in last year ’ s budget .
to make up the shortfall in planned spending , the pentagon cut more than $ 5 billion by adjusting its assumptions about expected fuel costs and inflation levels , pentagon comptroller mike mccord said .
it also cut procurement to $ 112.1 billion , down 6 percent , from this year .
the reductions would come mainly from planned aircraft purchases , including five fewer f-35 joint strike fighters ( lmt.n ) and a reduction in several types of army helicopters ( ba.n ) , budget documents show .
while cutting procurement , the pentagon proposed increasing spending on research and development by 4 percent , to $ 71.8 billion , as it looks to develop new technologies to give it a military edge .
the department said it would spend $ 16.8 billion in its classified military intelligence accounts .
it also agreed to delay until 2022 its controversial plan to retire the a-10 close air support aircraft , which is being used in the fight against islamic state .
retaining the aircraft will cost $ 3.4 billion over the five-year period .
the budget would continue to shrink the size of the u.s. army , which will drop to 460,000 soldiers in 2017 from the current 475,000 .
separately , the president ’ s budget would fund a new $ 150 million polar icebreaker vessel to ensure year-round accessibility to the arctic for coast guard missions .