( reuters ) - saudi arabia s crown prince mohammed bin salman has ordered a crackdown on corruption , the latest in a wave of frenetic changes in the kingdom over the past 2-1/2 years .
prince mohammed says he is determined to remodel his conservative country into a modern state no longer dependent on oil .
as his father , king salman bin abdulaziz , has handed the 32-year-old prince mohammed more and more power over the past three years , the ambitious young leader has taken on everything from economic reforms to waging war in neighboring yemen .
here is what you need to know .
prince mohammed capped his rapid rise to power in june this year by replacing his elder cousin prince mohammed bin nayef , widely known as mbn , as crown prince .
a source close to king salman said mbn s dismissal was in the higher interests of the state because he was incapacitated by morphine and cocaine addiction , a legacy of an assassination attempt that left shrapnel in his body .
reuters could not independently confirm mbn s addiction issues .
anti-corruption campaign prince mohammed tightened his grip on power with the start of the anti-corruption campaign at the weekend , purging the kingdom s political and business elite .
among those arrested were 11 princes .
many saudis welcomed the moves as an assault on the endemic theft of public funds by the powerful .
u.s. president donald trump said those arrested had been milking their country for years but some western officials expressed unease about the possible reaction in riyadh s opaque tribal and royal politics .
prince mohammed launched a military campaign in neighboring yemen in march 2015 .
a saudi-led coalition , acting on an invitation from the internationally-recognized government , has targeted the iran-aligned houthi movement in a war which has killed more than 10,000 people .
the war is closely identified with the prince in his role as defense minister .
his image once adorned war propaganda but is rarely associated with the war now , although he has said it must continue in order to quash iranian influence .
even before the conflict , yemen was the poorest country on the arabian peninsula and now millions of people there are facing famine and a cholera epidemic .
the coalition denies it blocks commercial shipments of food , medicine and fuel .
prince mohammed has helped lead a diplomatic campaign to isolate qatar , saying riyadh s erstwhile ally backs terrorism and cozies up to iran .
qatar rejects the accusations and says it is being punished for straying from its neighbors backing for authoritarian rulers .
the campaign has divided gulf arab countries , who washington regards as essential to its influence in the region .
qatar had incensed riyadh by cheering arab spring uprisings against some autocratic arab rulers .
saudi arabia s rivalry with iran , its competitor for influence in the middle east , has deepened as king salman and prince mohammed worked to build a sunni coalition against tehran and its allies in the arab world .
in may , as deputy crown prince , prince mohammed used unusually provocative language to rule out dialogue with revolutionary shi ite muslim theocracy iran , which he said was trying to interfere in arab lands and dominate the muslim world .
on tuesday , state media quoted him as describing iran s supply of rockets to militias in yemen as direct military aggression that could be an act of war .
prince mohammed has also opened a new front in the proxy war with iran by threatening tehran s ally hezbollah and its home country lebanon .
the resignation on saturday of the saudi-allied lebanese prime minister , saad al-hariri , announced from riyadh , was widely seen as the first act on this new front .
the crown prince has also sought the help of shi ite leaders in iraq to try to reverse iran s dominant role there and shore up security on the kingdom s northern border , and has tried to improve ties with the united states under trump , who shares his and king salman s antipathy to iran s government .
the planned sale of about 5 percent of national oil company saudi aramco [ ipo-armo.se ] next year is a centerpiece of vision 2030 , prince mohammed s blueprint to move the economy away from what he called its addiction to oil toward the private sector .
the ipo is expected to raise as much as $ 100 billion but investors wonder whether aramco can be valued anywhere close to the $ 2 trillion figure announced by the crown prince and there has been market speculation that the ipo could be delayed beyond 2018 or shelved .
he recently stated it would happen next year .
many saudis have misgivings about the sale , with some fearing riyadh is selling cheaply at a time of low oil prices .
vision 2030 has begun to reduce a big state budget deficit with austerity measures but has not yet created major new sources of non-oil growth or jobs .
the phased removal of subsidies on fuel , water and electricity has started but some austerity moves have been unpopular .
already , some have been reversed or delayed as the economy has slowed because of low oil prices .
the plan includes private investment and privatizations and building the world s largest sovereign wealth fund .
the aim is to create jobs and raise the participation of women in the workforce from 22 percent now to 30 percent by 2030 .
saudi arabia adheres to an austere wahhabi brand of sunni islam , which bans gender mixing , concerts and cinemas .
prince mohammed s ascent represents a social and cultural sea change , with power set to be passed to a much younger generation seemingly more in tune with young saudis .
in moves that reinforce that perception , women will be permitted to drive from next year and allowed to attend sports events .
the crown prince has also said the country will move to a more open and tolerant interpretation of islam , and reforms have begun in areas once the exclusive domain of the clergy such as education , courts and the law .
saudi authorities have promoted elements of national identity that have no religious component or pre-date islam .
last month prince mohammed announced a $ 500-billion plan to create a business and industrial zone extending across its borders into jordan and egypt , part of his efforts to reduce dependence on oil .
the 26,500 square-km ( 10,230 square-mile ) zone , known as neom , will focus on industries including energy and water , biotechnology , food , advanced manufacturing and entertainment , and will power itself solely with wind power and solar energy .
the crown prince says the government , public investment fund and local and international investors are expected to sink billions into the zone in coming years .
the crown prince told reuters neom would be floated on financial markets alongside aramco .