the fbi photo warning is from drexel university but all colleges and universities in the philly area are warned .
as you ll see below , everyone s a little confused about what to do or not do tomorrow during college classes .
twitter messages look something like the one below but e-mail alerts should have been sent to students : you should be aware .
if you see something , say something .
patrols are being increased .
but everyone should be vigilant .
the fbi has issued a warning to philadelphia colleges about a possible threat on monday .
here s what we know so far.1 .
the threat is related to a social network posting the fbi has issued a safety advisory for all colleges in the philadelphia area .
the threat is related to a social media posting that is threatening violence at a university in the area .
because of the shooting at umpqua community college , the fbi is taking an abundance of caution .
the advisory stated that the fbi has received similar posting throughout the country.according to a related thread on reddit , the warning may have been made after a post was made to 4chan that talked about violence in philadelphia on monday , october 5 .
the thread read , in part , that the beta rebellion had begun and the shooting in oregon was just the first .
the posting stated that at 1:00 p.m. on october 1 , someone else would take up arms against a college in philadelphia .
anyone in the area is encouraged to stay home , the message , which was reposted on imgur , read.2 .
the warning is for monday , around 2 pm easternaccording to the university of pennsylvania s advisory post , the threat is specifically for monday , october 5 , at around 2:00 p.m. eastern/1:00 p.m. central .
a specific university wasn t specified , so all universities and colleges in the area are being advised to take caution and be on the lookout for anyone suspicious.3 .
there is no knowledge of a specific threat the fbi has stated that it doesn t have any knowledge of a specific threat .
drexel university has said that it s going to increase patrols on monday , the university reported .
they are going to be on the lookout for anything suspicious.4 .
students aren t sure what to do with the warninga student from la salle university told philly mag that she had no idea what to do with the information .
she is supposed to be on campus during the time of the threat , so she doesn t know if she should be looking over her shoulder or what she should be doing .
other students , meanwhile , have said that they are planning on just skipping classes tomorrow or during that time .
5 .
others are concerned because they haven t gotten a warning yetother students are concerned and not sure what to do because they haven t actually received a warning yet , even though they attend colleges in the area .
one student , who attends university of the sciences , posted on twitter wondering why they hadn t received news about the warning yet .
a la salle university student told philly mag that she only found out about the warning because she saw a safety advisory on the university s website , but no one was sent a text or an email warning .
philly mag stated that the fbi hadn t responded to a request for a comment.via : heavy