paris ( reuters ) - hundreds of women attended rallies in paris and other french cities on sunday to protest against sexual harassment in the wake of the harvey weinstein scandal .
u.s. movie mogul weinstein has been accused by numerous women of having sexually harassed or assaulted them in incidents dating back to the 1980s , including three who said they were raped .
weinstein denies having non-consensual sex with anyone .
justice for women ; we won t remain silent ; the shame should switch sides read some of the signs held by french demonstrators , who were predominantly women .
in paris , protesters gathered at the place de la republique square under a grayish rainy sky , responding to a call that spread globally last week on social networks under the hashtag # metoo .
the hashtag has been used by millions of women across the world to share their experiences of sexual harassment and abuse on twitter and rolling posts on facebook .
among those at the rally in paris was 88-year-old vivianne rouis , who attended with her daughter and granddaughter .
at my age it s over , nothing s going to happen to me .
but my daughter , my granddaughter , it s true that i think about them a lot , rouis told reuters tv .
it has to stop .
because we re not objects , she added .
other protesters urged victims to speak up .
it s less and less taboo in our society and i think it s important that women , and even men , who are abused , speak about it more freely , said luana da costa , 17 .
hundreds of thousands of accounts of sexual harassment or abuse have been published under the french # balancetonporc or # squealonyourpig hashtag on twitter over the past few weeks , including from prominent actresses such as lea seydoux .
some conservatives say the new trend amounts to an attack on the french way of life in the name of u.s.-style puritanism .
nationwide consultations started this month over a proposed new law that will include steps to fight sexual harassment on the streets as well as extend the statute of limitations for rape on minors .