( reuters ) - the great firewall of china the world s most extensive effort to try to control cyberspace has become more formidable under president xi jinping .
authorities have closed some video and audio streaming websites , limited online access to foreign and foreign-inspired television programs , stiffened penalties for spreading rumor via social media and restricted access to virtual private networks .
for the very wired class of 2012 , these measures are largely minor inconveniences .
some buy into the idea that the internet needs to be closely managed .
others just find workarounds .
here are their views on living with the great firewall .
wang siyue , a product specialist at an internet education company : `` i 'm sure these restrictions will exist in the short term , but over the long term they ca n't block the development of this industry domestically .
i believe there will be even more internet companies and startup opportunities . ''
zhang weixuan , an assistant secretary at a software company : for contemporary youth in china right now , our channels for information are broad , including the use of vpns , or a variety of means through which we can be exposed to foreign news .
for me ( blocking vpns ) won t have a great impact .
maybe for second- and third-tier cities , or for those young people who have never had the experience of going abroad , or whose english is not very good , they may be subject to the impact of the country s more stringent controls over propaganda .
fu shiwei , an assistant university teacher : my students are very tech savvy so they help me solve things like looking up academic information or stay updated on global current affairs .
i think it s okay .
the government keeps everyone in line , so i don t have any strong opinions about the government .
zuo aining , a senior credit risk associate , based in washington , d.c. : i personally think that for the internet , as a very open platform , certain strategies for oversight are very necessary ... what i m concerned about are things like terrorist attacks .
maybe if you make better use of systems to supervise the internet you ll have a more positive impact in terms of protecting national security .
qin lijuan , a senior wealth management consultant : if i want some news i usually just ask friends abroad .
i ve got a lot of classmates who are abroad , who studied there or are working there .
graphic : great firewall of china tmsnrt.rs/2kuuiru