washington ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson will visit china this week for talks that will include the crisis over north korea s nuclear and missile programs and trade , the state department said on tuesday .
tillerson s trip , from sept. 28 to 30 , will also lay the groundwork for president donald trump s visit to china in november , state department spokeswoman heather nauert said .
tillerson s visit comes at a time of high tension between the united states and north korea , china s neighbor and ally , which is working to develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of reaching the u.s. mainland .
president donald trump warned north korea on tuesday that any u.s. military option against north korea would be devastating for pyongyang , but said the use of force was not washington s first option .
china has urged a return to dialogue .
nauert called china s steps to implement tougher u.n. sanctions on north korea after its recent missile and nuclear tests significant .
we have a good relationship with china , she told a regular news briefing , adding that this was evidenced by what would be tillerson s second visit to china in nine months in office .
china has taken enormous steps in the right direction .
there is always more that countries can do , but at this point we want to thank china for the steps it has taken in the right direction .
in beijing on wednesday , asked for details of tillerson s visit , chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang told a regular news briefing only that he would meet china s top diplomat , yang jiechi , and foreign minister wang yi .
while backing u.n. sanctions , china , north korea s main trading partner , opposes unilateral u.s. steps and has been worried washington might move to freeze its banks out of the global financial system unless they cut ties to pyongyang .
on tuesday , the u.s. treasury announced sanctions against 26 more individuals as part of its non-proliferation designations for north korea , as well as nine north korean banks , including some with ties to china .
tillerson s visit to beijing follows one by u.s. commerce secretary wilbur ross , who said on monday china needed to guarantee fair and reciprocal treatment for u.s. firms , as he tried to strike an upbeat tone amid bilateral trade tension .
china-u.s. ties have been strained by trump s criticism of china s trade practices and by demands that beijing do more on north korea .
chinese president xi jinping and trump met for the first time at trump s mar-a-lago estate in florida in april .
trump has since played up his personal relationship with xi , even while criticizing china over north korea and trade .
in august , trump authorized an inquiry into china s alleged theft of intellectual property - his first direct trade measure against beijing , a move china called irresponsible .