washington ( reuters ) - u.s. democrat hillary clinton raised about $ 143 million in august for her presidential bid and the democratic party , the her campaign announced on thursday .
of the total , about $ 62 million was raised for the candidate ’ s white house run and about $ 81 million was raised for the democratic national committee and state parties .
clinton spend most of the month of august working the democratic fundraising circuit and trying to amass a war chest to use against republican donald trump .
the august hauls included a lucrative two-week swing of high-dollar events in the moneyed east coast vacation spots of martha ’ s vineyard and the hamptons , along with star-studded luncheons in los angeles and gatherings with high-tech leaders in silicon valley .
a three-day , $ 19 million fundraising trip to california included a stop at the home of former basketball star magic johnson , lunch at the home of musician justin timberlake and actress jessica biel and an afternoon event in northern california with apple ’ s tim cook .
twenty people paid at least $ 200,000 each to attend a nighttime event at the estate where laurene powell jobs is building a dream home designed by her late husband , steve jobs .
clinton has already saturated the airwaves in key states with television ads , while trump has spent almost nothing on the general election .
trump has struggled to raise large sums of cash .
instead , much of his campaign has been self-funded , using his personal wealth to fuel his shoestring primary campaign .
but supporters of trump have warned that a general election requires more to be spent on expensive television ads and requires outside fundraising .
trump has not yet released his fundraising totals for the month of august .
clinton ’ s campaign has already announced plans to spend $ 77 million in swing state advertising before the nov. 8 election .
her campaign said the average donation in march was $ 50 , a signal that she is drawing from small-dollar donors and not just those who write checks worth thousands of dollars .
“ thanks to the 2.3 million people who have contributed to our campaign , we are heading into the final two months of the race with the resources we need to organize and mobilize millions of voters across the country , ” campaign manager robby mook said in a statement .