brussels ( reuters ) - major issues must still be resolved on safeguarding citizens rights after brexit , the european parliament s negotiator guy verhofstadt said on wednesday , the eve of another round of divorce negotiations between london and brussels .
the talks have been grinding slowly and verhofstadt said that london s assurances on the status of eu citizens living in britain were not good enough .
british prime minister theresa may has said the two sides were in touching distance of a deal and said on tuesday the british government expected most eu citizens currently living in britain would be allowed to stay after brexit in 2019 .
we don t recognize reports suggesting that a deal on citizens rights is almost finalised .
there are still major issues that have to be resolved , verhofstadt said .
he said one of his concerns was that britain should grant a settled status to eu citizens based on a free-of-charge declaration while london s latest proposal envisaged a conditional application .
a spokesman for the british government said the uk has made a fair and serious offer on citizens rights and real progress was made in the latest round of negotiations .
safeguarding the rights of eu citizens living in the uk , and uk nationals in the eu , is our first priority in the negotiations , the spokesman said .
we want to provide as much certainty as soon as possible to the many eu citizens who have made their lives in the uk and who make a huge contribution to our country .
london hopes the 27 other eu states would assess enough progress has been made in divorce talks - covering the citizens , britain s exit bill and the future irish border - to open new discussions on a post-brexit transition period and a future trade relationship as soon as possible .
the other 27 eu leaders will take another look on that in december though germany and some others stress that is not a done deal and want london to improve exit terms , especially on the financial settlement .
in a gesture toward the embattled may , however , the 27 launched internal preparations for the second set of negotiations in order to be ready with a unified position and able to present it to london swiftly once they are satisfied with progress in the divorce talks .