jefferson county judge joseph j. bruzzese jr. should be counting his blessings today because he was saved by an armed parol officer .
he should also be thankful that he was armed and able to return fire when he was ambushed on his way into work by two waiting gunmen.breaking : a black male is taken into custody after an apparent shooting we just got on scene working to learn more @ wtov9 pic.twitter.com/hfs5azzhvw lauren healy ( @ laurenwtov9 ) august 21 , 2017steubenville city manager james mavromatis says judge joseph bruzzese was ambushed outside of the jefferson county courthouse pic.twitter.com/jr9zje4sgc wtov news9 ( @ wtov9 ) august 21 , 2017the ambush occurred outside the jefferson county courthouse in steubenville , ohio , near the pennsylvania and west virginia state lines .
steubenville city manager james mavromatis told local media that two suspects ambushed the judge as he entered the courthouse monday morning .
a probation officer in the immediate vicinity returned fire , killing one gunman .
local media reports that bruzzese himself was armed , and may have returned fire.the second suspect has been taken into custody , though it is not yet clear if he was armed.little is known of the two suspects , but both have criminal records , according to local officials .
we re starting to put this whole picture together , but basically what you have is the judge is going to work , these subjects were waiting for them .
he comes up , shoots at the judge .
the judge returns fire , mavromatis said .
we also have a probation officer that was behind the judge .
he returns fire as he is shot at .
the subject is deceased that he shot at .
he credited the unnamed probation officer for quickly neutralizing the gunmen , who could have killed the judge and other bystanders were it not for his intervention .
this probation officer has done his job .
he reacted to the threat , trying to save the judge and any other bystander that may have been in the area , mavromatis said .