if you want to watch a conservative throw a temper tantrum just mention slavery and grab your popcorn.because when first lady michelle obama talked about slavery and the great progress our country has made since the civil war during an interview at the new smithsonian institution s national museum of african american history and culture , conservatives took to twitter to whine.mrs .
obama told good morning america host robin roberts about how she feels about visiting the museum , which opens this weekend .
and one of the things that struck her the most is the fact that a lot of the history the museum presents happened during the lives of the three generations of her family who visited the museum that day .
and she expressed astonishment at how fast progress has been made .
when you think about the fact that my great-great grandfather was a slave and today i live in the white house , that progress is huge and it s fast , the first lady said.here s the video via twitter.flotus : my great-great grandfather was a slave and today i live in the white house .
that progress is huge .
https : //t.co/a4rwuhyr5z pic.twitter.com/vvhgrtxoyu abc news ( @ abc ) september 23 , 2016but , of course , conservatives lost their shit and displayed their hatred in the comments .
@ abc and the sooner that mooch and obummer get out of the white house and trump gets in , the better !
# trumppence16 # makeamericagreatagain chantie huffines ( @ ladychantie ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc but , you keep the narrative going that all white people , except clintons , are racist .
deporable & watsit2u ( @ thumbug ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc the country is more racist than ever since the obamas entered the white house .
they have a bitter resentment for white people mike van patten ( @ mikevanpatten4 ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc so why are the democrats trying to send race relations back to the sixties ?
deplorable voter ( @ antone18 ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc keep driving racial segregation down our throats , abc .
these types of post should sure give you more peaceful protest to cover .
ashton allen ( @ asherzz09 ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc move out bimbo donna coffey ( @ dcoffey56donna ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc lord jesus said to do good as bondmen .
john stefanyszyn ( @ johnstefanyszyn ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc and we can thank the republican party for that .
it certainly wasn t the democrats .
bev cross ( @ bevcross1 ) september 23 , 2016 @ abc then they managed to set us back decades by generating a racial divide n bringing anarchy among the people awesome job not # gotrump jane callaway ( @ janeewc ) september 23 , 2016and while it is true that the early republican party freed the slaves , it was at a time when republicans were liberals and democrats were conservatives .
the two parties have flipped since then .
democrats have since become the defenders of civil rights who continue to fight for racial equality and social justice while republicans pandered to white racists in the south and have become dominated by white supremacists who desperately want to roll back any and all progress african-americans have made in this country.if republicans have to go back 150 years to find one good thing the party did for african-americans that s really embarrassing and says a lot about what the party has become.featured image via wikimedia