harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s army appears to be pushing for a quick and bloodless end to 93-year-old president robert mugabe s 37 years in power , to be replaced by a national unity government headed by his former deputy , emmerson mnangagwa .
according to political sources in harare , mugabe - now under house arrest in his lavish harare home - was resisting pressure to stand down voluntarily .
[ nl8n1nm1n9 ] assuming he does , the following are likely to be key players in the expected settlement , according to political sources in zimbabwe and south africa and several years of zimbabwean intelligence documents seen by reuters : emmerson mnangagwa ( likely president ) - a lifelong mugabe aide and 1970s liberation war veteran known as the crocodile , mnangagwa , 75 , was in the pole position to succeed mugabe until his progress was impeded by the dramatic political ascent of mugabe s wife , grace .
his sacking as vice-president this month cleared a path for grace to the presidency and appears to have been the trigger for the army to step in to advance its preferred successor .
morgan tsvangirai ( likely prime minister ) - a former union leader who founded the movement for democratic change in the late 1990s , tsvangirai , 65 , has been mugabe s main political rival for two decades .
he served as prime minister in a 2009-2013 unity government formed after violence-ridden elections in 2008 .
tsvangirai has been undergoing treatment for cancer outside zimbabwe but returned to harare late on wednesday .
constantino chiwenga ( possible vice-president ) - as the military chief who pulled the trigger on the coup , chiwenga is expected to win a senior role in the interim administration .
chiwenga , 61 , who has served in the armed forces since zimbabwe s independence in 1980 , was sanctioned by the united states and european union although the latter removed him from its list of restricted individuals in 2014 .
joice mujuru ( possible vice-president ) - a liberation war veteran with the nom de guerre spill blood , mujuru , 62 , formed her own political party after being ousted as vice-president in 2014 .
her husband , solomon mujuru , a general who died in suspicious circumstances in 2011 , was regarded as one of the most feared men in zimbabwe and one of the few people capable of challenging mugabe .
dumiso dabengwa ( possible vice-president ) - moscow-trained dabengwa , 77 , nicknamed the black russian , fought in the 1970s anti-colonial struggle for zipra ( zimbabwe people s liberation army ) , a rival to mugabe s zanla ( zimbabwe african national liberation army ) .
his incorporation in any unity government would ensure it represented both wings of the liberation struggle .
tendai biti ( possible finance minister ) - a lawyer by training , biti , 51 , won international plaudits as finance minister in the 2009-2013 government that stabilized the imploding economy .
he told reuters he would be happy to reprise this role if tsvangirai , his former political mentor , was on board .