kabul ( reuters ) - afghan president ashraf ghani sacked the chairman of the country s independent election commission on wednesday , raising doubts over whether parliamentary and council ballots scheduled for next year will take place as planned .
najibullah ahmadzai , head of the body charged with organizing the elections , had faced growing pressure following repeated delays to preparations for them and had lost the support of both ghani and disillusioned foreign donors .
the 2018 votes are seen as dry runs for a presidential election in 2019 and a key test of the progress made by afghanistan s western-backed government towards establishing durable democratic institutions .
following a contentious presidential election in 2014 , marred by allegations of massive voter fraud on both sides , international donor countries have laid heavy emphasis on the need for successful elections next year .
but planning has been beset by a mix of technical and political problems that have made the officially scheduled date of july 2018 increasingly unrealistic .
five members of the seven-member iec wrote to ghani this week accusing ahmadzai of was incompetence .
ambitious plans for a biometric voter registration system had to be abandoned and squabbling between members of parliament and ghani s fragile national unity government over issues including who sits on the election commission have caused months of delay .
the problems underline the fragility of the political institutions created in afghanistan since a u.s.-led campaign brought down the taliban in 2001 .
the bitter 2014 presidential election produced no agreed winner and led to a u.s.-brokered deal which saw former rivals ghani and chief executive abdullah abdullah forced into an uneasy coalition that has struggled to win popular support .
district council elections have never been held , despite being mandated in the 2004 constitution , while the current parliament s term was supposed to end in june 2015 but has been extended due to the difficulty of holding new elections .
last month , officials from international partners including the united nations told the afghan government that even under the most favorable conditions , the earliest date on which an election could feasibly be held was oct. 2018 .
many western diplomats believe even that date is impossible .
if not ready by october , afghanistan s mountainous terrain , bad roads and lack of security mean that registering voters and setting up balloting stations across the country are likely to face severe delays over the winter months , potentially pushing the date into the following year .