beijing ( reuters ) - fixing the corruption problem in china s ruling communist party is world class hard and the battle will never end , the country s top graft-buster told singapore s prime minister in a rare meeting with a visiting foreign leader .
wang qishan , who heads the party s central commission for discipline inspection , has been at the forefront of president xi jinping s fight against deep-seated corruption , and speculation has swirled about whether he will retire or stay on at next month s key party congress .
meeting singapore prime minister lee hsien loong at the central leadership s zhongnanhai compound in beijing , wang said the party s anti-corruption campaign and efforts to supervise itself had been highly effective .
carrying out an operation on yourself to cure an illness is world class hard , the commission cited wang as saying , in a statement late on wednesday .
the party has long insisted it has no need for an independent anti-corruption mechanism , in a country where the party also controls the legal system .
wang said that the final aim in the graft fight was to find an effective route to self-supervision for a party that has been in power for a long time , and to always maintain the party s progressiveness and cleanliness .
the party s efforts have won the trust of the people and demonstrates the party s confidence in its system , he added .
the anti-corruption effort is always on the road , wang said , using a frequently used party expression to refer to how the campaign will not end .
singapore s straits times said that the meeting with wang had been requested by lee , and that wang told lee he was surprised but happy the request had been made .
so i sought permission and i am here meeting you and your delegation today , wang told lee , the newspaper reported .
wang , who is 69 and sits on the party s elite ruling standing committee , should retire at next month s party congress according to unwritten party rules on age limits , but he is close to xi and could stay on in some capacity , sources with ties to the leadership have said .