the demons could wait no longer .
lynne patton is the vice president of the eric trump foundation & senior assistant to eric trump , ivanka trump & donald trump jr. she was thrust onto the political scene after making a beautiful video denouncing trump s critics who dared to call him a racist or bigot .
she didn t ask donald j. trump or any of the trump family members for their blessing she just made the video .
the video went viral shortly after it was posted and has been viewed almost 4 million times .
( we included the video at the bottom of the page . )
lynne has been a force in the trump campaign ever since .
she spoke at the rnc convention and has been spotted with several of the trump children at various events across the country supporting her boss , donald j. trump .
lynne posted a touching and extremely important story on her instagram account that so moved us , we decided to share it with our followers .
there are not enough people speaking up about the horrendous health care our veterans have been subjected to for decades .
trump has made no secret that he is determined to fix the broken va health care system run by incompetent , and in many cases , negligent employees of a disgusting , inept , government-run program .
lynn patton addresses trump s commitment to our nation and to our veterans , who deserve so much more than what we are giving back to them in this beautiful letter that she posted , after being contacted by friends who had just lost their son , a veteran who was suffering from ptsd to suicide : sometimes people ask me if i ever regret coming forward speaking out making that video back in may .
my answer is always the same : no , of course not .
or i relay to them the fact that i couldn t stay silent about the false narrative of bigotry any longer .
or quite simply , i tell people that all did was genuinely tell the truth about this great family as i know it to be .
i never expected that the letter i wrote would be anything more than a personal facebook post with a few friendly comments .
maybe even a few negative ones too .
but then a very talented friend insisted on turning that letter into a video & here we are.everything i ve ever said , posted , written , tweeted , spoken & believed about this family is 100 % true .
i never expected that simply being honest would result in being asked to speak in front of 24 million people at the republican national convention .
i never expected that simply being honest would lead to tens of thousands of twitter followers ( good & bad ) .
i never expected that simply being honest would result in being part of a movement .
but i would be lying if i didn t admit that it s been a tough few months .
tough physically .
tough mentally .
tough emotionally .
it s been a lot of traveling .
it s been a lot of laughs .
it s been a lot of tears .
i ve lost a few friends ( who clearly weren t true friends ) and , unbeknownst to most , even some of my own family members have ceased communication .
i barely see my own boyfriend anymore .
a person with whom i have lived for the past 11 years .
we are two ships literally passing in the night .
oftentimes , too tired & exhausted to even converse .
but yesterday , i received a devastating reminder of why we do what we do .
a reminder of why i don t regret speaking out coming forward sharing a very private part of my life on a very public stage.yesterday , i received a devastating reminder of why i m honored to know & love this family .
a reminder of why i walk through the doors of trump tower with a smile on my face each & every day .
a reminder of why it s an honor to crisscross this country alongside this great man & his family in the pursuit of the greatest office in the world .
in pursuit of the betterment of this country .
in pursuit of a safer , stronger , more respected & prosperous america .
yesterday , i received a message that my friend s little brother had committed suicide .
he was 32 years old.normally , i would not be sharing something so personal in such an impersonal forum , but i do so at the behest & blessing of his family .
even so , it took me nearly 24 hours to find the strength to write these words .
i have no idea how my friend & her incredibly brave family are even functioning , yet alone finding the strength to email me during a time of such unfathomable grief .
but then they explained to me that they had no choice .
they explained to me that their collective grief , frustration , fury , anger , confusion , sadness and utter betrayal compelled them to contact me .
me .
on the same day they were faced with the painful task of burying their son , their brother , their uncle , cousin they reached out to me .
you see , my friend s little brother was a veteran .
air force .
handsome .
brave .
loved .
my friend s little brother was a veteran who had been battling the overwhelming demons of depression & post traumatic stress disorder for several years .
alone .
without professional help .
and when he finally did find the courage to seek professional help , the va told him there was a six month waiting list .
six .
month .
waiting .
list .
but unfortunately , the demons could wait no longer .
instead , my friend s little brother chose to take his own life on september 11 , 2016 .
so you see , i have no choice but to post about his death today .
i have no choice but to make this tragedy political .
because it is .
plain & simple .
but more importantly , i have no choice but to make his death political because his devastated family has specifically asked me to do so.in his honor .
so that no other veteran is turned away during their time of need .
they told me that this country now needs trump to lead us more than ever .
that this country now needs a leader who will bring respect , honor & well-deserved attention back to our military , so that these brave soldiers don t feel dejected & alone ridiculed & angry depressed & confused .
that said , it is now my honor to work for a man who will personally ensure that the va s antiquated , lackadaisical , reckless , reprehensible and irresponsible system of care is overhauled & relaunched becomes one of his very first acts of office.there are people who have been in washington dc for over 30 years & done absolutely nothing to fix this disgraceful system .
nothing .
nothing at all to change this unacceptable process .
one of them is running for president of the united states .
so yes , yesterday , i was reminded why the choice for my boss to leave his company leave an extremely successful & comfortable existence was easy for him.yesterday , i was reminded why the shockingly vile , hateful & abusive comments i receive on social media mean nothing to me.yesterday , i was reminded that this election is much bigger than i am than us than you than him .
that it s much more important than we could ever fathom to this country , to our veterans , to the unemployed , to the crime victims of illegal immigrants , to our police officers , to our active duty military & to the heartbroken families of the same.this election is , quite simply , a matter of life & death .
and today , i , for one , am now personally determined to ensure that my friend s little brother and his 22 military peers who take their lives each & every day did not die in vain.lynne patton , ? ?
# deplorableandproudhere is lynne patton s video :