during nancy pelosi s remarks regarding president trump s decision to pull out of the paris accord , pelosi questioned whether president trump s grandchildren breathe air !
i kid you not !
can you imagine if a republican had spoken like that about obama s children ?
the snark coming from pelosi is palpable rude !
how is he [ trump ] ever going to explain to his grandchildren what he did to the air they breathe ?
assuming they breathe air .
and i have to assume that is the case .
we all do , right ?
pelosi released a garbage statement after president trump s announcement : san francisco democratic leader nancy pelosi issued the following statement after it was reported that the trump administration will pull out of the landmark , 195-signatory paris climate accord that would significantly slow the progress of global warming : president trump s decision to pull the united states out of the paris climate accord is a stunning abdication of american leadership and a grave threat to our planet s future .
in walking away from this agreement , the president is denying scientific truths , removing safeguards that protect our health and our environment , protecting polluters and their dirty energy agenda , and threatening our national and global security .
the paris accord honors our collective moral responsibility to leave future generations with a planet that is clean , healthy and sustainable .
the agreement deploys the full force of governments around the world to halt the rise in carbon emissions that cause extreme climate events , including record droughts , horrific famines and devastating floods , in addition to thousands of deaths each year from asthma attacks and other air pollution-related diseases .
rejecting the pact also sends a strong message to the marketplace to direct innovative , entrepreneurial investments in the clean energy economy elsewhere .
the majority of americans in both parties know that climate change is real , and want clear , decisive action to arrest its dire effects .
democrats will continue to support the strong action of states , cities and the private sector to halt the march of climate change , no matter how destructive and short-sighted the decisions of this administration continue to be .