our first female candidate for president is so crooked and dirty that she actually used a teenage girl actress to stage a question designed to trash trump at her haverford , pa townhall .
what kind of woman would be okay with a young girl lying in front of an entire crowd of people for the sole purpose of making herself look good ?
guess what hillary ?
asking young teenage girls to lie for you doesn t look so good brennan s father is daylin leach a left-wing member of the pa house , who happened to mention how offended he was by trump s alleged fat pig comment in his facebook post below.the youtube spanglevision owner did amazing investigative work to prove his case .
from his youtube video : hillary has no shame ; she used a 15 year old child actor ( brennan leach ) to further her anti-trump narrative .
what kind of role model is hillary for women teaching teenage girls that cheating is an acceptable form of winning ? here is brenna s father , daylin leach discussing his support for hillary clinton on his facebook page , as well as his disdain for donald trump .
hmmmm .i wonder who helped her to format that question ? here is the text from his facebook post .
the original post can be found below : bernie vs. hillary manifestoi have tried to largely avoid posting on bernie vs. hillary .
donald trump provides me with more than enough material to keep me busy .
but i feel the need say a few things first , full disclosure , i am a hillary delegate .
i like hillary .
i agree with bernie more on a couple of issues , but generally speaking , they are both progressive enough .
and i don t always support the most progressive candidate for president .
i support the most progressive candidate who can win .
i didn t support jesse jackson , dennis kucinich , ralph nader , al sharpton , etc. , because they were all unelectable .
i ve always found bernie unelectable .
current polls are meaningless .
nobody has ever run a negative ad against bernie .
once the republicans spend a billion dollars , he will look like the love child of che guevara and julius rosenberg .
but hey , you may disagree with me .
fine .
my point is not to convince anyone to vote for hillary in the primary .
the fall however is a different story .
i have seen too many liberals say that hillary is imperfect , and she is not progressive enough on some issue or other , or she takes corporate money ( like obama , kerry , gore , etc .
did ) or that they don t like her , and thus they are not voting for her .
they will write in bernie , or vote for the tofu party , or whatever .
i feel compelled to say that for a progressive , that is simply immoral and insane .
clinton s rating from progressive organizations while in the senate was virtually identical to sanders .
she may not call for raising the minimum wage to $ 15 ( which is my bill in pa ) but to $ 12 .
she may want to expand obamacare rather than establish single payer .
but these are all steps in a progressive direction .
but even more importantly , clinton is not running against franklin roosevelt in the fall .
she is running against an outright racist , xenophobic authoritarian , who promises to bring back torture , feels workers make too much is anti-choice , calls women fat pigs promises to bomb the shit out of whole bunches of people and ban entire religions from our nation .
wait , i m not done .
he will appoint an extreme right-wing supreme court that will persist for decades .
he is anti-union , wants to eliminate the department of environmental thinks climate change is a hoax invented by china .
he is a birther and a conspiracy theorist generally .
he knows nothing about any issue other than he will solve it with something beautiful , huge and tremendous which everyone will love , believe me .
he tells people at his rallies to beat the crap out of protesters , and he wants to curtail freedom of the press so he can sue reporters who write bad stories about him .
so when someone says they won t vote for the lesser of two evils , that is just lazy and sloppy thinking .
there is no parity of evil .
there is impure and maybe off-putting versus true , crypto fascist evil .
it s like if someone threatened to cut off your toe or your entire leg .
would you say i m not going to choose , because i don t like either option ?
the thing is , this isn t some academic exercise where we can be self-righteously pure .
this will affect people s lives directly .
so again , it is simply immoral and insane for progressives to pretend that who wins in november doesn t matter .
think of it this way .
lets say on a scale of 1-100 measuring how progressive a candidate is , bernie is a 90 .
and lets say hillary is only a 70 ( not fair , but lets just say ) .
trump is about a 2 .
so if you are really progressive .
you vote for 70 over 2 .
you don t sit it out because you can t have 90 .
this why its not only important to work for hillary in the fall , but maybe to stop attacking her once she has mathematically clinched the nomination .
because , in the end , it really , really matters .