strasbourg , france ( reuters ) - europe s top human rights court ruled on tuesday that russian opposition leader alexei navalny s conviction for fraud in 2014 had been arbitrary and manifestly unreasonable and ordered russia to pay him compensation .
we have won .
thanks everyone for support , tweeted navalny , a campaigner against corruption among russia s elite who hopes to run against vladimir putin in a march election .
putin is widely expected to seek and win a fourth term as president .
russian authorities have three months to decide whether to appeal against the ruling by the european court of human rights ( echr ) , the tass news agency cited russia s deputy justice minister and echr representative mikhail galperin as saying .
we proved that this case was a fabricated one , and that this ugly buffoonery in the court room in 2014 had nothing to do with a fair legal proceeding , navalny wrote on his website , www.navalny.com , after the court announced its ruling .
a suspended jail sentence in a separate case which navalny says was politically motivated may still bar him from running for president .
the strasbourg-based echr said navalny and his brother oleg s convictions for fraud and money laundering were based on an unforeseeable application of criminal law and that the proceedings were arbitrary and unfair .
i am glad that justice was done , navalny wrote .
he said the case against him had been staged to thwart his anti-corruption and political activities through the pressure put on him and his family .
when thieves and swindlers in power declare that i can not run ( for president ) because of the law , the sentence , because ( i am ) a criminal and recidivist , we can show them with confidence what they will never have a decision by a true , fair court , he wrote .
it is clearly written there that the law and the right are on our side .
it s them who are criminals , not me .
navalny and his brother were convicted in december 2014 of money laundering and defrauding their business partners .
navalny was given a suspended sentence of 3-1/2 years and his brother a prison sentence of the same length .
the navalnys lodged a complaint with the echr in january 2015 .
the echr ruled that russia must pay navalny and his brother 10,000 euros ( $ 12,000 ) each for non-pecuniary damage , plus costs and expenses of 45,000 euros for alexei and 10,971 euros and 460,000 roubles ( $ 8,000 ) for oleg .
in another case which navalny says was a kremlin attempt to prevent him standing for election , a russian court in february found him guilty of embezzlement in relation to a timber firm called kirovles and gave him a five-year suspended sentence .
it was the second time the case had been heard , after the echr said navalny s right to a fair hearing had been violated and ordered a retrial .