washington ( reuters ) - sanctions on myanmar and withholding of u.s. aid are among options for pressing that country s government to stop attacks on rohingya muslims , u.s. officials said on thursday , adding that they must be careful to avoid worsening the crisis .
we don t want to take actions that exacerbate their suffering .
there is that risk in this complicated environment , deputy assistant secretary of state patrick murphy told a u.s. house of representatives foreign affairs committee hearing .
hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslims have fled myanmar s rakhine state since security forces responded to rohingya militants attacks on aug. 25 by launching a crackdown the united nations has denounced as ethnic cleansing .
myanmar rejects that accusation , insisting action was needed to combat terrorists who killed civilians .
but it has left the world community counting the cost as international organizations and the government of bangladesh , which has taken in the vast majority of the refugees , race to provide food , water and medical care .
many u.s. lawmakers have clamored for a strong u.s. response to the crisis and criticized government leader aung san suu kyi , a nobel peace laureate once hugely popular in washington , for failing to do more .
representative ed royce , the foreign affairs committee s republican chairman , said her recent statement denying that the military had conducted clearance operations was factually false and said she should speak out .
those responsible for these atrocities must face justice .
she and the military generals must rise to this challenge .
this is ethnic cleansing , royce said .
representative eliot engel , the committee s top democrat , was one of several committee members who said washington should reconsider its decision to ease sanctions on the country and military .
in particular , they called on myanmar to allow international inspectors access to rakhine state .
we re sitting here in our white shirts and our suits and these people are being slaughtered and thrown out of their country , republican representative scott perry said .
somebody needs to take action , he added .
murphy said efforts were under way to identify individuals responsible for rights violation .
representative ted yoho , chairman of the panel s asia subcommittee , asked if it would be effective to suspend aid to myanmar s government until they allowed u.n. inspectors into rakhine state .
kate somvongsiri , a witness from the u.s. agency for international development , said that would be considered .
with the gravity of the situation , we obviously need to look at all the possible tools of leverage on the table , she said .