madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s ousted leader carles puigdemont agreed on tuesday to a snap election called by spain s central government when it took control of the region to stop it breaking away , but he said the fight for independence would go on .
below are several scenarios of what could happen in the next few days .
puigdemont and his sacked cabinet have been ordered to testify before the spanish high court on thursday and friday after charges of rebellion , sedition and breach of trust were filed against them .
under spain s legal system , a judge will then decide whether puigdemont should go to jail pending a investigation that can sometimes take up to several years - and a potential trial .
puigdemont traveled to brussels after the catalan regional parliament issued a unilateral declaration of independence on friday , and it was not immediately clear whether he would heed the call to appear before the court .
he had said earlier on tuesday he would return to spain only when given unspecified guarantees by the spanish government .
the same charges have been drawn up against the catalan parliament s speaker , carme forcadell , and other senior lawmakers but , given they have parliamentary immunity , they will testify before the supreme court , which is in charge of handling cases relating to lawmakers or members of the government .
prosecutors have asked the courts to order catalan secessionist leaders to deposit 6.2 million euros to cover potential liabilities but they have not sought preventive jail against them .
this could change however if puigdemont and his associates did not show up at the high court as the judge could deem them to be a flight risk and jail them .
it is not clear whether a snap regional election will resolve the crisis .
two recent opinion polls showed support for independence may have started to wane .
but an official regional survey published on tuesday showed some 48.7 percent of catalans believe the region should be independent , up from 41.1 pct in june and the highest since december 2014 .
based on 1,338 interviews , the centre d estudis d opinio poll was the first survey released since the independence declaration though the bulk of it was taken before then , between oct. 16 and oct. 29 .
other opinion polls have also shown catalonia is almost evenly split between pro- and anti-independence supporters .
one key thing to watch will be if pro-independence parties run on a joint ticket or on separate platforms .
if they ran separately , they could find it more difficult to reach a parliamentary majority .
they must say whether they intend to run together before nov. 7 and then put forward their candidates by nov. 18 .
prime minister mariano rajoy sacked catalonia s government including puigdemont and his deputy oriol junqueras and assumed direct control over the region .
central government ministries assumed the powers of the catalan administration until a regional election takes place on dec. 21 .
that unprecedented step was implemented smoothly and calls for civil disobedience were widely disregarded .