rush limbaugh was cheering for trump and how he handled the abortion question that was asked in last night s debate between hillary clinton and donald j. trump .
do catholics and other pro-life groups truly understand the significance of this election ?
do they know how many supreme court justices our next president will likely replace in the next 4 years ?
in addition to the abortion issue , our religious freedoms are at serious risk .
the left has been attacking christianity and judaism for years , while protecting the muslim faith like their lives depend on it .
rush mentioned on his radio show today how shocked he was by trump s unabashed support for the life of the unborn .
he said that there has never been a presidential candidate in history who has so bravely stood up for life during a debate with the democrat opponent , like donald j. trump did last night .
here is his brilliant analysis rush : let me ask you a question .
when chris wallace asked this abortion question , did you people start cringing ?
oh , no , jeez , every time this comes up we get smoked , oh , my god .
and he turned it to partial-birth abortion on a dime , which was either brilliant or instinctive or combination of the two , because she had no defense for what he was alleging , and she didn t even try .
her only defense , when he brought up , they want rip babies out of the womb a day before they re born , a week before they re born .
and she doesn t deny it .
all she can say is , i have seen these women .
i have met these women , and i m telling you it is one of the hardest things , i m telling you it is one of the most difficult things .
she s therefore on record as supporting partial-birth abortion last night .
i will guarantee you that s the last thing anybody on the democrat party side ever factored would happen .
that s why she wasn t prepared for it.and it was , i don t know , as i say , either brilliant or instinctive or a combination of the two , but to take that question on abortion , which has traditionally been a nail in the coffin for a republican candidate , turn that around to a winning issue for him , a losing issue for her , and you ll note that nobody in the drive-bys is talking about that exchange .
they don t want to go anywhere near it.and then she lied about planned parenthood and all these mammograms they do and all these precancer checks .
they don t do a single mammogram , folks .
they do not do them .
they don t do checks for cancer .
their solution to everything at planned parenthood is an abortion .
she lied through her teeth .
i don t know if trump knows that or not .
most people who , oh , great work , mammograms , care for women .
they don t do anything of the sort .
they harvest baby parts and sell them !
we now know that.but the partial-birth abortion thing , he turned it around on her .
she didn t have a denial and the drive-bys aren t talking about it , and it s things like that in a debate you ll never hear any public reaction , no polling on it , but could have a huge impact .
we ll never know .
we won t know until the elections .
via : rushlimbaugh.com