washington ( reuters ) - donald trump says the federal reserve has stoked asset bubbles and backs a congressional review of its decisions .
bernie sanders also wants to “ audit ” the fed to make it less beholden to wall street .
ted cruz calls for a return to a gold standard abandoned in 1933 .
such voices from the 2016 presidential campaign have emboldened lawmakers who seek to limit the fed ’ s powers and are prompting some current and former fed officials to call for steps to placate the u.s. central bank ’ s harshest critics .
more than a dozen insiders and fed watchers said in interviews they were concerned that the next president could be more sympathetic to critics ’ views that the fed has grown too powerful and impenetrable .
confronted with a possible republican push to give congress more say in shaping fed policy , these insiders say concessions may be necessary to protect the fed ’ s independence .
“ there ’ s a deep-seated institutional fear that if you crack the door open , it will be kicked in .
but often that ’ s just not the case , ” said david stockton , the fed ’ s former research director and now a fellow at the peterson institute for international economics .
the concerns among the group , which includes current and former regional presidents , are growing despite the expectation that democratic front-runner hillary clinton , who polls suggest should win in november , would help the fed preserve the status-quo .
the worries reflect the balancing act that central banks face as the world economy still sputters despite aggressive monetary easing .
central bankers are getting blamed both for overstepping their bounds and for not doing enough to bolster growth .
even as the u.s. economy outperforms , the fed is especially vulnerable , because it is ahead of its peers in unwinding the crisis-era stimulus .
chair janet yellen and her colleagues have warned in public speeches and private meetings with lawmakers that initiatives to make the fed more accountable and transparent could backfire .
they are defending the decades-old , but now challenged , consensus that the fed can best safeguard long-term economic stability when shielded from direct political interference .
the officials who were interviewed said the fed could take steps to become more open , such as responding more promptly to lawmaker requests for information and revealing what rules of thumb inform decisions on rates .
“ the best response is not to go into a defensive shell , but instead the fed should attempt to influence the terms of any changes that are coming , ” said stockton .
some are even embracing a limited outside review of fed decisions - effectively a version of an “ audit ” supported by trump , sanders and cruz .
while proposals for the fed to become more open in explaining what informs its decisions may get some traction , those interviewed acknowledge that the fed leadership appears unlikely to embrace an audit or major changes to its policy playbook .
the fed declined to comment on changes suggested in the interviews .
two separate bills proposed by the republicans in the senate and the house call for a government watchdog to evaluate , or “ audit , ” policy decisions and to tie them to single policy rule that the fed would adopt and make public .
yellen and her colleagues say the “ audit ” would expose the fed to short-term political pressures , making policy less , not more predictable .
the single rule policy would “ severely impair ” the fed ’ s policymaking , yellen has warned , while new york fed president william dudley has compared it to going “ on autopilot ” in the face of complex global challenges .
concern about the republican initiatives is particularly strong among the 12 district presidents .
freshman minneapolis fed president neel kashkari told reuters in a february interview that the fed ’ s credibility suffered during the recent economic crisis .
the central bank needs to abandon its “ wizard of oz routine ” where it tells americans “ we are so mysterious , so smart , you can ’ t understand what we are doing , ” he said .
narayana kocherlakota , his predecessor , told reuters that while he did not think fed policy lacked public oversight , the central bank should address such concerns and offer its own solutions .
“ optics matter , ” he said .
“ simply to continue to say that ‘ we ’ re really transparent and there is no reason for us to change how we ’ re doing things ’ - i don ’ t think that ’ s going to work. ” shortcomings of the current approach of reiterating the fed ’ s criticism of the proposed changes were in plain view at yellen ’ s latest congressional testimony on feb. 10 .
in its run-up , yellen held 10 private discussions with lawmakers in january alone , including a call with republican representative jeb hensarling , who chairs the house financial services committee and backs the rule-based policy bill .
that however did not stop hensarling from putting yellen on the spot , presenting a letter from prominent economists , including three nobel laureates and several former fed officials who backed his bill , and labeling yellen ’ s warnings as “ apocalyptic ” and “ hyperbolic. ” yellen was also taken to task by some democrats over the fed ’ s planned rate hikes that they said would disproportionately hurt minorities , and over what they saw as too cozy ties with wall street .
kocherlakota , now a professor at university of rochester , said a scheduled audit , preferably once every two years , was a “ very manageable ” way to deal with the criticism and avoid ad-hoc political meddling .
in a similar vein , andrew levin , a former advisor to yellen , suggested the fed could meet halfway the supporters of rule-based policy by disclosing benchmarks it uses in its debates .
“ it ’ s really hard to understand why the fed won ’ t use these benchmarks to help explain what they ’ re doing , ” said levin , now a dartmouth college professor , citing as an example the taylor rule in which rates are tied to levels of inflation and growth .
by sharing information more readily , the fed could also possibly improve relations with republicans , some current and former fed officials said .
that relationship has been strained by a drawn-out probe into an alleged 2012 leak of sensitive policy details to advisory firm medley global advisors .
republican lawmakers have requested transcripts and other information related to the case , but the fed has said it is limited in how much it could disclose because of an ongoing justice department investigation .
others say the central bank should be open to review its regional structure dating back to 1913 , and how regional presidents are selected .
today they get picked by district fed directors appointed by local bank groups and the fed governors in washington , with little public disclosure .
the fed and the congress have a long history of friction .
a brookings institution paper published last week analyzed 879 bills proposed since 1947 and found politicians usually try to redefine the fed ’ s powers when the economy falters , noting a spike in such efforts since the 2008 global financial crisis .
the latest major changes came in 1977 when lawmakers clarified the fed ’ s dual price stability and employment mandate and in 2010 , when the dodd-frank act gave the fed greater supervisory powers while setting limits on future emergency lending and its autonomy to conduct it .
“ the approaching november elections compound uncertainty for the fed , ” sarah binder and mark spindel wrote in the paper .
“ we doubt the path forward will be easy for even the best intentioned and expert of central bankers . ”