we are two moms who have put our lives on hold to do everything in our power to fight the progressives on the left from stealing our freedoms and the future of this great nation from our children .
over four years ago , we started the 100 percent fed up !
facebook page with the goal of exposing the truth that so many frustrated americans were not finding in the mainstream media .
we ve suffered several cases of censorship by facebook along the way , but we never gave up .
we may disappear after we publish this article , but we ve made a commitment to exposing the truth and we re not going to back down now.it should frighten every person who uses facebook , that a ceo of a the largest social media platform in the world , has openly expressed the view that america should give up our national security and follow germany s lead when it comes to open borders for [ muslim ] migrants .
i suppose it s easy for billionaires who are surrounded by top security firms , and live a life far removed from the every day american , to say that we should accept these rapists , violent invaders , and yes , members of terror groups disguised as refugees into our neighborhoods and communities .
after all , they won t be living next door to mark zuckerberg .
he will likely never have a single encounter with them in his day to day life.mark zuckerberg recently admonished his workers for replacing black with the word all in obama s race war motto : black lives matter .
for anyone who s paying attention , asking your workers to essentially accept admonishment for being white from a group of domestic terrorists , is a dangerous precedent for an owner of any company , much less the largest social media organization in the world .
we need to fight back against this .
we need to not be afraid of censorship or the ramifications when we voice our opinions.mark zuckerberg praised germany for their inspiring refugee policies during a visit to the country and reiterated his commitment to combating hate speech on facebook.speaking at a town hall event in berlin , the 31-year old billionaire said german leadership in the refugee crisis has been insipiring and a role model for the world .
i hope other countries follow germany s lead on this , he added .
i hope the u.s. follows germany s lead on this .
speaking at the same event , zuckerberg also emphasised his commitment to tackling hate speech on facebook .
hate speech has no place on facebook and in our community , he said .
until recently in germany i don t think we were doing a good enough job , and i think we will continue needing to do a better and better job .
zuckerberg added that the company would place a special priority on tackling hate speech against migrants .
facebook s policies , he said , would now include hate speech against migrants as an important part of what we just now have no tolerance for .
zuckerberg was overheard after leaving his microphone on during a conversation about the refugee crisis with angela merkel .
are you working on this , the german chancellor asked him , according to bloomberg .
yeah , he replied.the super-rich tech boss also said we need to do some work on the issue .
we are committed to working closely with the german government on this important issue , said debbie frost , a facebook spokeswoman .
we think the best solutions to dealing with people who make racist and xenophobic comments can be found when service providers , government and civil society all work together to address this common challenge .
since then , facebook has dramatically expanded its anti-hate speech efforts , launching a new initiative to combat racist and xenophobic material on social media alongside european ngos this january .
facebook is also cooperating with a task force set up by the germany justice ministry to hunt down alleged racists on the platform.some critics fear the social network is working with governments to silence any criticism of the refugee crisis.his censorship comments have now gone viral , provoking a debate about whether it is right to squash unpopular or potentially offensive views .