manchester , england ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson quipped on tuesday that libya can become a new dubai if it can clear the dead bodies away , the latest gaffe by britain s top diplomat .
johnson , who has offended some allies with flippant remarks , told conservative party members that the libyan city of sirte could be turned into the next dubai by british investors if they could clear the bodies .
they ve got a brilliant vision to turn sirte , with the help of the municipality of sirte , to turn it into the next dubai , johnson said .
the only thing they ve got to do is clear the dead bodies away and then we will be there .
some activists from prime minister theresa may s party laughed at the joke before the chair of the event changed the subject , saying : next question .
britain and france took a leading role in the attacks that helped rebels overthrow muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
the country has since descended into chaos , with thousands of casualties .
the islamic state militant group took over sirte in early 2015 , turning it into their most important base outside the middle east and attracting large numbers of foreign fighters into the city .
it was later cleared of the militants .
in a series of late night posts on twitter , johnson said he was referring to the clearing of booby trapped bodies of islamic state militant fighters .
shame people with no knowledge or understanding of libya want to play politics with the appallingly dangerous reality in sirte , johnson said .
the reality there is that the clearing of corpses of daesh fighters has been made much more difficult by ieds and booby traps .
when asked about johnson s comments , pm may s deputy , damian green , said all ministers need to be careful with their language when dealing with sensitive issues but refrained from criticizing the foreign minister .
the opposition labour party s spokeswoman for foreign affairs , emily thornberry , said johnson s joke was shameful and questioned whether may would take any action to reprimand him .
may s appointment of johnson , who in the run-up to britain s referendum on eu membership compared the goals of the european union to those of adolf hitler and napoleon , caused consternation in some european capitals .
britain s ambassador to myanmar was forced to interrupt johnson earlier this year as he tried to recite a nostalgic colonial poem by rudyard kipling in public during a visit to the country s most famous buddhist site .