bishkek ( reuters ) - a protege of outgoing pro-russian leader almazbek atambayev looked set for a surprise outright victory in kyrgyzstan s presidential election on sunday , despite polls having predicted a close runoff between him and an opposition leader .
according to preliminary data published by the central election commission , former prime minister and atambayev ally sooronbai jeenbekov had secured 54.22 percent of the vote based on a count from 97 percent of the polling stations .
his main opponent , oil tycoon omurbek babanov , trailed well behind with 33.47 percent , according to the same early data .
a close ally of moscow and host to a russian military base , kyrgyzstan helps its former soviet overlord project power across a region where china and the united states also vie for influence .
in contrast to other central asian states , which are mostly run by autocrats , kyrgyzstan is a boisterous democracy that produces sometimes chaotic changes of leadership .
after its first two presidents were ousted by riots , the country restyled itself as a parliamentary republic where presidential powers are mostly limited to foreign policy and security matters .
but atambayev strengthened executive powers last year .
constitutionally barred from seeking a second six-year term , he backed jeenbekov , 58 , an experienced apparatchik who served as prime minister until august .
in sunday s election , observers , citing pre-election polls , saw none of the candidates clearing the 50 percent threshold for outright victory , with jeenbekov and babanov then competing in a runoff .
babanov s campaign office declined to comment on the preliminary results but said it would do so on monday .
babanov s next move will be closely watched because allegations of electoral fraud were among the main factors behind violent protests which toppled two kyrgyz presidents in 2005 and 2010 .
atambayev - likely to remain a powerful figure if his preferred candidate jeenbekov does win - warned on sunday he would use any violence as an opportunity to cleanse the country .
atambayev and jeenbekov s social democratic party is the biggest in parliament and dominates the coalition cabinet .
but they faced stiff opposition from babanov , 47 , whose respublika-ata zhurt ( fatherland ) party has the second-biggest parliamentary faction and whose poll numbers had suggested he and jeenbekov would compete in a tight runoff .
babanov , also a former prime minister , has accused the government of abusing its powers to ensure jeenbekov s victory after the authorities charged some of his campaign supporters with plotting a coup and planning to bribe voters .
babanov has denied any wrongdoing and dismissed the charges against his supporters as dirty election tactics .
atambayev and his cabinet have also accused kazakhstan , a bigger and wealthier neighbor , of backing babanov - which both babanov and the kazakh government deny .
what they ( the authorities ) are doing is outrageous , babanov told reporters on sunday , adding some of his campaign staff and a reporter for a tv station owned by babanov had been attacked by unidentified men on the day of the vote .
atambayev on sunday warned opponents against trying to stage violent protests after the vote .
in fact , if there is unrest , it s going to be a good thing , i would like to cleanse ( the country of ) them all completely , he told reporters after casting his ballot .
both jeenbekov and babanov have said they consider russia - where hundreds of thousands of kyrgyz migrant laborers work - a strategic partner .
according to preliminary data , voter turnout was 55.93 percent .