vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis , in some of his most candid and personal comments on the sexual abuse of children by priests , said on thursday that the catholic church had arrived late in dealing with the problem .
francis , speaking in unscripted remarks to a commission advising him on how to root out sexual abuse , also acknowledged that early in his papacy he had made one bad call in being too lenient with an italian priest who later went on to abuse again .
he also said he had decided to change current procedures for dealing with abusive priests by eliminating appeals trials in cases where there was definitive proof .
francis surprised members of the commission by putting aside his entire prepared speech and chatting to them .
there is the reality that the church arrived at the consciousness of these crimes a bit late , he said .
when consciousness arrives late , the means to resolve the problems also arrive late .
i am aware of this difficulty but it is reality and i say it plainly : we arrived late .
church sexual abuse broke into the open in the united states with reports of cases in louisiana in 1984 and exploded in 2002 , when journalists in boston found that bishops had systematically moved abusers to new posts instead of defrocking them .
thousands of cases have come to light around the world as investigations have encouraged long-silent victims to go public , shattering the church s reputation in places such as ireland , and more than $ 2 billion has been paid in compensation .
the old practice of moving people around and not confronting the problem made consciences fall asleep , he said .
francis acknowledged that the commission , which was founded in 2014 , had to swim against the tide , a reference to high level defections from its ranks .
marie collins of ireland , a non-clerical member who was victim of priestly abuse when she was a child , quit in frustration in march , citing a shameful lack of cooperation within the vatican .
another , peter saunders of britain , took a leave of absence last year in protest over a lack of progress .
francis said that everyone had to realize that sexual abuse is a sickness with a high probability of relapse .
that person may repent today ... but may commit it again after two years .
we have to put it into our heads that this is a sickness , he said .
francis said he would change current vatican procedures to severely limit chances of appeal for pedophile priests convicted by church tribunals , saying they often were overly legalistic , allowing for reduced sentences on procedural grounds .
i have decided to balance this out and say that if an abuse of a minor is proven , it is sufficient and there should be no recourse .
if the proof is there .
period .
it s definitive , he said .
francis , who was elected in 2013 , acknowledged he made one bad judgment early in his papacy concerning an italian priest , mauro inzoli .
in that case , the bishop of crema , had ruled that inzoli would be removed from the public ministry while remaining a priest but a church tribunal ruled that he be defrocked .
the pope sided with the bishop .
i was new ( in the papacy ) i did not understand these things well and chose the more benevolent of the two sentences but after two years the priest had a relapse .
i learned from this , francis said .