sydney ( reuters ) - several lawmakers filed family history documents in australia s parliament to meet a government deadline on tuesday to try to prove their citizenship and stem a crisis that has so far claimed nine mps and cost the government its majority .
australia s 116-year-old constitution bans dual citizens from holding national office and the high court adopted a strict interpretation of it in october in a country where half the population were either born overseas or have a parent who was .
the crisis may yet plunge prime minister malcolm turnbull s liberal-national coalition into minority rule , should it lose another lawmaker , or a crucial by-election set for dec. 19 .
the ruling center-right pairing lost its one-seat lower-house majority when the high court found deputy prime minister barnaby joyce to be a new zealander and therefore ineligible for office .
he has since rescinded his new zealand citizenship and regained his seat in parliament .
but another member has since quit his place and now as many as a dozen more now face referral to the court after the deadline to disclose the birthplace of parents and grandparents passed on tuesday .
the disclosures show that nearly every lawmaker has at least one foreign parent or grandparent .
while some provide citizenship records dating back to the 19th century , others give few details or documents , prompting calls for the high court to consider their cases .
there are a few grey areas , there s no doubt about that , mp christopher pyne said on perth radio station 6pr , adding that parliament would decide on thursday which cases to send to the court .
one opposition labor party member has already told parliament it remains unclear whether he is british , after the home office could not find the paperwork to prove he renounced his citizenship a decade ago .
labor argues that seven government lawmakers filed unconvincing or incomplete disclosures , while the government raised doubts over four opposition mps , and there is a cloud over another independent lawmaker .
although joyce easily regained his seat at a by-election on saturday , the crisis still has the government precariously clinging to power and has already dented its ability to pursue its political agenda .
if it loses a by-election in sydney on dec. 19 , or the court ousts another lower-house mp , it would be forced to depend on a handful of independent lawmakers to retain power and pass laws .