singapore/cambridge , massachusetts ( reuters ) - a nephew of singapore s prime minister said a contempt of court proceeding against him , stemming from comments he made about the country s legal system , was meritless and he had appointed a lawyer to represent him .
the singapore attorney-general s office started court proceedings in august against li shengwu over a facebook post in which he said the singapore government is very litigious and has a pliant court system .
li , who is a grandson of the city state s founding leader lee kuan yew , said at the weekend he had retained singapore attorney abraham vergis , of the firm providence law asia , to represent him .
it s sad that the singapore government continues to press these meritless charges against me , li , a u.s.-based academic , told reuters .
vergis , a veteran litigation lawyer , appeared at the singapore high court on monday in a closed-door conference on the case .
he said the case was likely to be a drawn out process and when asked how li planned to proceed , vergis told reuters : it is premature to be talking about that .
lawyer francis ng , the senior state counsel from the attorney general s chambers , declined to comment .
singapore parliament last year passed a bill that made it punishable by up to three years in prison or a fine of up to s $ 100,000 ( us $ 73,530 ) for anyone who alleges the country s judiciary is bias .
ng has previously described li s facebook post as an egregious and baseless attack on the singapore legal system .
on aug. 4 , li said he did not mean to attack the singapore judiciary and he had amended the private post to avoid misunderstanding , though he hasn t disclosed what changes he made .
li told reuters in separate comments in an interview in august that he had left the country in july after friends expressed concerns he might be detained by the authorities .
in the interview , li did not identify the friends or specify the information they had .
reuters has no independent evidence that li faced any threats to his safety .
in singapore , it is possible that one can be detained and interrogated for some time without a lawyer , li said at the time .
the case relates to a feud between lee kuan yew s three children over the fate of lee s house , which earlier this year gripped the nation not accustomed to such disputes erupting into public view .
lee hsien yang and sister lee wei ling accused their elder brother , prime minister lee hsien loong , of abusing power to try to save the house as a historic monument in defiance of their father s wishes .
the premier called a special sitting of parliament to clear the air over the issue and afterwards said the debate had failed to find any substantial evidence of abuse of power .
lee kuan yew , who died in 2015 at the age of 91 , had lived in the house for most of his life .