mogadishu ( reuters ) - more than 300 people were killed by twin bomb explosions in mogadishu , an official said on monday , as locals packed hospitals in search of friends and relatives caught by somalia s deadliest attack in a decade .
the death toll has steadily risen since saturday , when the blasts struck at two busy junctions in the heart of the capital city .
one truck bomb detonated near a fuel truck , creating an enormous fireball .
the bomb attacks were the deadliest since islamist militant group al shabaab began an insurgency in 2007 .
al shabaab has not claimed responsibility , but the method and type of attack - a large truck bomb - is increasingly used by the al qaeda-linked organization .
we have confirmed 300 people died in the blast .
the death toll will still be higher because some people are still missing , abdikadir abdirahman , the director of the city s ambulance service , told reuters .
aden nur , a doctor at the city s madina hospital , said they had recorded 258 deaths and that 160 of the bodies could not be recognized .
( they ) were buried by the government yesterday .
the others were buried by their relatives .
over a hundred injured were also brought here , he told reuters at the hospital .
some of the injured were being evacuated by air to turkey for treatment , officials said .
locals visiting their injured relatives or collecting their bodies filled every available space in madina hospital .
my last time to speak with my brother was some minutes before the blast occurred , halima nur , a local mother , told reuters .
i am afraid he was among the unrecognized charred bodies that were buried yesterday .
i have no hope of getting him alive or dead .
but i can not go home .
abdullahi aden , 56 , said five of his cousins had died .
the shop completely collapsed on them .
i could not help them .
i could not hear their screams and the nearby buildings were burning , he said .
he was still searching for two other relatives .
al shabaab stages regular attacks in the capital and other parts of the country .
although the group claims it targets the government and security forces , it has detonated large bombs in crowded public areas before .
it has sometimes not claimed responsibility for bombings that provoked a big public backlash , like the 2009 suicide bombing of a graduation ceremony for medical students .
the group is waging an insurgency against somalia s u.n.-backed government and its african union allies in a bid to impose its own strict interpretation of islam .
the militants were driven out of mogadishu in 2011 and have been steadily losing territory .
but al shabaab retains the capacity to mount large bomb attacks .
over the past three years , the number of civilians killed by insurgent bombings has steadily climbed as al shabaab increases the size of its bombs .
in 2016 , 723 somalis were killed in 395 bomb attacks , according to nairobi-based thinktank sahan research , up from 193 deaths in 265 attacks in 2015 .
some of those seriously injured in saturday s bombing were moved by ambulance to the airport on monday morning to be flown to turkey for further treatment .
workers unloaded boxes of medicine and other medical supplies from a turkish military plane and turkish medical teams attended to the injured moved from the hospital for evacuation .