geneva ( reuters ) - children are starving to death in central african republic because violence has forced aid workers to pull out , the united nations humanitarian coordinator for the country said on tuesday .
four years after a conflict began between muslim seleka rebels and christian anti-balaka militias , central african republic had seemed calm in the early part of the year .
but violence has flared since may , turning the southeast into a virtual no-go area .
there is no humanitarian assistance there .
it s not even half , it s nothing , because it was just not possible for humanitarians to stay there , coordinator najat rochdi said .
we started already seeing children dying from severe malnutrition .
lack of funds had already forced aid workers to halve food aid and in some places stop it completely , despite widespread malnutrition in children under five-years-old .
what i heard - but we have not been able to confirm it is that so far we had 10 kids who died from malnutrition .
but as long as we don t have humanitarians going there , it s very difficult for us to confirm that , rochdi said .
the violence is often ethnically based and tinged with suspicions of witchcraft .
the latest u.n. humanitarian report said four children had been abducted and killed in the town of bambari , their bodies found with their organs removed .
in the town of kembe , about 40 people were reportedly killed or wounded in a clash between armed groups on oct. 10 , it said .
the number of displaced people has jumped by 50 percent to 600,000 this year , in addition to 500,000 who have fled into neighboring countries .
rochdi said 400,000 children were not going to school .
overcrowded camps averaging 30,000 displaced people are fertile recruiting grounds for armed groups , so the united nations is trying to clear out weapons and fighters and get people back home wherever possible .
the u.n. peacekeeping force is only 11,600 strong , in a country the size of france and belgium combined , and the government is struggling to create an army that can hold territory against marauding gunmen .
the united states and uganda withdrew their forces after declaring victory in april against the lord s resistance army ( lra ) , a marauding gang notorious for abducting and recruiting child soldiers .
rochdi said their withdrawal left a vacuum and lra attacks had continued sporadically .