thank god america has people like ted cruz in our senate , who are unafraid speak out against the enemy , and fight for the safety and security of our nation .
now , if we could only get our commander in chief to accurately identify and confront the enemy america must stand with our allies against the scourge of radical islamic terrorism .
this is an evil that does not discriminate between french , german or american , christian , muslim or jew , soldier , football player , or concert goer .
their only goal is to murder those who do not submit to their vicious , totalitarian ideology .
our deepest condolences go out to our french allies , and i know the government of the united states stands by to offer any assistance necessary .
we must now face the facts .
between the downing of the russian jet over egypt and this massive coordinated attack on paris , we are seeing an unmistakable escalation of isis ambitions and the scale of their terrorist attacks outside syria and iraq .
even as chaos rages in paris , we need to take immediate , commonsense steps to preserve our own safety .
we need to consult closely with our nato allies who may be targeted for additional attacks .
we need to immediately declare a halt to any plans to bring refugees that may have been infiltrated by isis to the united states .
we need to redouble our efforts to prevent isis agents from penetrating our nation by other means .
such steps , however , are defensive reactions to an enemy that will continue to try to attack us until they succeed once again .
we must immediately recognize that our enemy is not violent extremism .
it is the radical islamism that has declared jihad against the west .
it will not be appeased by outreach or declarations of tolerance .
it will not be deterred by targeted airstrikes with zero tolerance for civilian casualties , when the terrorists have such utter disregard for innocent life .
we must make it crystal clear that affiliation with isis and related terrorist groups brings with it the undying enmity of america that it is , in effect , signing your own death warrant .
ted cruz