bogota ( reuters ) - colombia s disarmed farc rebel group is preserving its famous acronym as it becomes a civilian political party , part of its demobilization under a peace deal with the government to end more than 50 years of war .
the revolutionary armed forces of colombia rebels , whose first political conference will close on friday with a concert and speeches in bogota s central square , will now go by revolutionary alternative common force , preserving the spanish initials .
under the 2016 peace deal to end its part in a war that has killed more than 220,000 people , most of the group s fighters were granted amnesty and allowed to participate in politics .
whether the rebels will get backing from colombians , many of whom revile them , remains to be seen .
the group had originally floated several other names , including others which kept the initials , but the new name won against new colombia in voting at the conference on thursday , farc leader rodrigo londono , known by his nom de guerre timochenko , said on twitter .
farc leadership and social media accounts also posted a graphic of the party s policy priorities and its new logo , a red rose with a red star in the middle .
policies will included the fight against corruption and promoting arts and culture .
no more traditional political parties and their corrupt policies .
transparency and truth will guide the actions of the new party , the graphic reads .
youth , women , indigenous people , rural farmers , afro-colombians , artists , the lgbti population , housewives , students , workers and the unemployed - everyone s opinion matters .
the farc s often old-fashioned marxist rhetoric strikes many as a throwback to their 1964 founding , but proposals for reforms to complicated property laws could get traction with rural voters who struggle as subsistence farmers .
under the peace accord , farc s party will have 10 automatic seats in congress through 2026 and may campaign for others .
both legislative and presidential elections are set for 2018 .