the russians may not have hacked our elections , but that s not going stop obama from blaming them for affecting hillary s chances of winning .
never mind hillary s recent use of an unsecured email server while she was serving as sec of state , or the fact that she has spent most of her adult life under some sort of criminal investigation , or that over half of america said they didn t trust her .
it s the damn russians fault that wikileaks leaked emails that were damaging to hillary , her entire campaign team and the democratic party .
anything to taint the legitimacy of soon to be president trump .
president obama said the united states will retaliate against russia over its malicious cyberactivity during this year s election , in an interview that will air friday on npr .
i think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections .
.
.
we need to take action , the president said .
and we will at a time and place of our own choosing .
some of it may be explicit and publicized ; some of it may not be .
speaking to morning edition host steve inskeep , obama said there are still a whole range of assessments taking place among the agencies , and he is waiting for the report on cyberattacks he has ordered to be delivered by jan. 20.russia seems to be losing their patience with the obama regime s claims that they had something to do with the hacked emails that wikileaks founder julian assange shared with the world prior to our november elections.the tough talk from the white house fell flat in moscow , where putin spokesman dmitry peskov called the accusations baseless and inappropriate .
they should either stop talking about that or produce some proof at last , peskov told reporters friday .
otherwise it all begins to look unseemly .
there has been no specific , persuasive evidence shared publicly about the extent of putin s role or knowledge of any hackings .
that lack of proof undercuts democrats strategy to portray putin s involvement as irrefutable evidence of a directed russian government plot to undermine america s democratic system.but the white house pointed to a u.s. intelligence assessment released publicly in october that asserted only russia s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities .
and obama s deputy national security adviser , ben rhodes , connected the dots further , saying thursday that putin was responsible for the russian government s actions .
i don t think things happen in the russian government of this consequence without vladimir putin knowing about it , he told msnbc.trump struck back friday morning , with a twitter post mockingly asking , are we talking about the same cyberattack in which embarrassing information about the democratic national committee was also revealed.are we talking about the same cyberattack where it was revealed that head of the dnc illegally gave hillary the questions to the debate ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 16 , 2016his tweet invoked emails stolen from clinton s campaign chairman and later released publicly in hacking that has been linked to russia .
-cbc