a report just came out about the crazy huge numbers of illegals crossing our open border .
yes , obama has basically opened our borders to pretty much anyone who can walk or crawl across .
that means people from all over the globe including terrorists ! the prospect of donald trump s border wall becoming a reality has illegal immigrants racing for the u.s.an investigative report by reuters quantitatively and qualitatively shows the republican front-runner s vow to secure the border has struck fear into the hearts of would-be illegal aliens .
the news service interviewed migrants and smugglers for tuesday s report , in addition to pouring over customs and border patrol data : if trump wins , we re all screwed and all latinos are screwed , isaias franco , a 46-year-old from el salvador who was deported from the united states late last year and is now trying to get back , said at a migrant shelter in ciudad juarez , just across the border from el paso , texas.u.s .
customs and border protection ( cbp ) data shows 150,304 migrants were detained trying to cross the u.s.-mexico border between october and february , up 24 percent from the same period last year.similar data for unaccompanied child migrants those traveling without a guardian is not yet available , but between october and january , 20,455 kids were apprehended on the southwest border , up over 100 percent from a year ago .
they think they need to take advantage while they can , said blanca rivera , who manages a ciudad juarez , mexico , migrant shelter.she said coyotes in the honduran capital tegucigalpa who charge about $ 7,000 per person have been telling people now is the time to leave.cbp data revealed 150,304 people were apprehended trying to illegal enter the u.s. through its southern border between october and february 2015 a 24 percent jump over the previous year .
unaccompanied minors detained illegally entering the u.s. from october to january 20,455 skyrocketed 100 percent compared to the previous year.isaias franco , a 46-year-old from el salvador who was deported from the u.s. last year , told reuters from ciudad juarez that he was determined to return .
if trump wins , we re all screwed and all latinos are screwed , franco said .
you watch the news there s a lot of fear among latinos .
read more : wndmexico rejects the possibility of a wallmexico city ( reuters ) there is no way mexico would fund donald trump s terrible plan to build a wall along its border with the united states if the republican front-runner wins the u.s. presidential election , the mexican finance minister said.trump , the new york billionaire developer and former reality television star , sparked outrage in mexico when he vowed to force latin america s second largest economy to pay for a wall along the southern u.s. border to stem the flow of illegal immigration and drugs.in a televised interview late on wednesday , finance minister luis videgaray categorically rejected the proposal .
under no circumstance will mexico pay for the wall that mr. trump is proposing , he said .
building a wall between mexico and the united states is a terrible idea .
it is an idea based on ignorance and has no foundation in the reality of north american integration .
trump has accused mexico of sending rapists and drug runners across the u.s. border and has vowed to increase fees on some mexican visas and all border crossing cards as part of a broader plan to force mexico to pay for the wall .
read more : yahoo