hong kong ( reuters ) - important areas of hong kong s one country , two systems framework are coming under growing pressure , illustrated by developments such as reports of mainland security officials operating in the autonomous city , a british government report said on thursday .
the one country , two systems principle , implemented as the former british colony returned to chinese rule in 1997 , promises the city a high degree of autonomy , an independent judiciary and a range of freedoms not enjoyed in mainland china .
the former colonial power has been issuing reports on hong kong every half a year since then , and the latest , which covers developments in the first six months this year , british foreign secretary boris johnson said the guiding principle has generally functioned well .
however , at the same time , we can not ignore that important areas of the one country , two systems framework are coming under increasing pressure , johnson wrote .
examples include further reports of mainland security officials operating within hong kong , he said , without elaborating , as well as reports of the local beijing representative s office heightening its influence in the city .
but for the first time , the half-yearly report stopped short of raising concern over five hong kong booksellers who disappeared in late 2015 and later mysteriously re-emerged in mainland chinese custody .
one of the five men , swedish citizen gui minhai , is still in chinese detention .
the report also touched upon the apparent abduction of chinese billionaire xiao jianhua , who in january disappeared from his downtown hong kong apartment in a wheelchair with his head covered .
although hong kong authorities said there was no evidence to suggest mainland law enforcement agents had acted on hong kong soil , johnson noted that many in hong kong and internationally highlighted the numerous similarities between xiao jianhua s apparent abduction and the case of the hong kong booksellers .
he also said he looked forward to welcoming the city s newly sworn-in leader , carrie lam , to visit london to discuss closer co-operation between the uk and hong kong as the uk prepares to leave the eu .
in response to the report , the hong kong government said foreign governments should not interfere in the internal affairs of the city .
since the return to the motherland , the hksar ( special administrative region ) has been exercising a high degree of autonomy ...
this demonstrates the full and successful implementation of the one country , two systems principle , which has been widely recognized by the international community .