just recently , a usa today sports columnist said new england patriots quarterback tom brady deserves to get some tough questions on president trump as his team prepares for the super bowl .
tom brady no longer gets a pass on his friendship with donald trump , wrote nancy armour , a veteran sportswriter .
not after this weekend , when the country boiled over in rage and indignation at trump s decision to turn america s back on refugees .
armour said the 39-year-old quarterback who did not campaign with trump can not dismiss his friendship with trump when he answers questions from the press leading up to sunday s game against the atlanta falcons .
it s only now , when he s facing questions and criticism , that he thinks the friendship should be off limits .
but it doesn t work that way .
if you stake out a position , you need to own it .
or if you ve had a change of heart , explain why , armour wrote.the columnist conceded that she doesn t know if brady is aligned with trump s perspective or policies , but says he should disavow him regardless .
brady might not agree with trump s views or his policies but in refusing to publicly disavow trump s actions , brady is giving tacit endorsement to both trump and the chaos he has created , she argued.armour concluded her column by stating that any harsh treatment brady receives from the press this week is ultimately a situation he created .
regardless of whether he was duped into being a prop or is genuinely friends with trump , brady inserted himself into the national firestorm .
he can t be surprised that people want to know more .
and now expect more , she writes.trump and brady have said they are golfing buddies .
brady was spotted with a make america great again hat in his locker shortly after trump launched his presidential bid .
asked in september 2015 whether he would like to see a trump white house , brady said : it would be great .
there would be a putting green on the white house lawn , i can tell you that .
but brady largely avoided answering questions about trump throughout the race.read more : the hill