beijing ( reuters ) - guo wengui , an exiled chinese billionaire who has accused some of the most senior officials of china s communist party of corruption , has applied for political asylum in the united states , his lawyer said .
thomas ragland , a washington-based lawyer , said guo , who lives in new york and is in the united states on a tourist visa expiring this year , applied for asylum on wednesday because he feared his accusations had made him a political opponent of the chinese regime .
this step was taken because of his very real concerns of his safety and risks he would face from the chinese regime because of his videos , his twitter posts , the things that he s said and written , ragland told reuters by phone on thursday .
guo , who is also known as miles kwok , did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said he was unaware of the situation when asked about it at a daily news briefing in beijing earlier on thursday .
guo , who left china in 2014 , has emerged as a political threat to china s government in a sensitive year , unleashing a deluge of corruption allegations against high-level officials of the ruling party through twitter posts and video blogs .
the businessman has made it clear that he wants to disrupt an important communist party congress , which is held every five years and due to begin on oct. 18 .
despite providing scant evidence to back up his accusations , guo s standing as a former billionaire insider with ties to senior intelligence officials has meant his online video streams and prolific tweeting command attention , as well as the ire of beijing .
interpol issued a global red notice for guo s arrest in april , at beijing s request , while articles in china s state-controlled media have accused him of crimes including bribery , fraud , and embezzlement .
guo denies the accusations .
guo is also being sued for defamation in the united states by several chinese individuals and companies , including the hna group conglomerate .
ragland said guo feared that china could soon file criminal charges against him that were politically motivated and request american authorities to cancel his visa .
filing an application for asylum , ragland said , triggers protections both under u.s. and international law that would allow guo to remain in the country for the duration his application was being processed , the national average for which is two to three years .