the michigan court of appeals rejected green party candidate jill stein s request for a recount of presidential ballots in michigan.the court ruled that the board of state canvassers should not have allowed the recount , because stein has not chance of winning the presidential election due to the recount .
accordingly , we grant the requests of the attorney general and president-elect trump for issuance of a writ of mandamus , a court official said in a statement .
we direct the board of state canvassers to reject the nov. 30 , 2016 petition of candidate stein that precipitated the current recount process .
we retain jurisdiction .
the michigan court of appeals agreed that jill stein is not an aggrieved candidate and the recount must stop .
a.g. bill schuette ( @ schuetteonduty ) december 7 , 2016the u.s. 6th circuit court of appeals upheld the federal judge s order to continue the hand recount , but the michigan court of appeals rejected the recount process.the u.s. 6th circuit court of appeals made clear , in their ruling , that if , subsequently , the michigan courts determine that plaintiffs recount is improper under michigan state law for any reason , we expect the district court to entertain any properly filed motions to dissolve or modify its order in this case .
the combined effect of the two rulings appears to set up further court proceedings in front of goldsmith and the michigan republican party has already filed for another federal hearing .
andrea bitely , a spokeswoman for schuette , said the michigan court of appeals said there is no conflict between its order and the federal district court s temporary restraining order , so the recount should end immediately.however , to ensure clarity for michigan taxpayers , ( and as recommended in the 6th circuit s opinion issued this evening ) , the attorney general is now filing in the federal district court a motion to dissolve the temporary restraining order , bitely said.mark brewer , an attorney for stein , said the u.s. 6th circuit court of appeals refused to stay the republicans request to stop the recount , so it will continue until all the parties can get back to federal court to plead their case , again , before goldsmith.the state panel said that to qualify as aggrieved , stein must be able to allege a good faith belief that but for mistake or fraud , she would have had a reasonable chance of winning .
legal insurectionopponents of the recount claim that it s too expensive and that stein , who received just 1 percent of the vote , is wasting resources .
this is a win for michigan taxpayers , michigan republican party chairman ronna romney mcdaniel said in a statement .
the michigan court of appeals ruled in our favor , determining that the petition for recount filed by dr. jill stein should have been denied .
dr. stein is not an aggrieved candidate as she has no chance of winning the election in michigan .
the legal arguments are being heard in both state and federal courts , and the attorney general said the battle could theoretically end up in front of the u.s. supreme court .
i m just saying , theoretically , it could go there , schuette said .
i m just taking it just one step at a time , and i m convinced , and i have confidence in the michigan court system , and the michigan judicial system , to uphold the michigan statute , and the michigan law will prevail .
schuette said the battle is a matter for the state courts because he said there is no u.s. constitutional right to a recount.stein s campaign handed the michigan secretary of state a check for $ 973,250 on wednesday .
the campaign said it intends to pay all fees associated with the recount in michigan , and is currently recruiting volunteers to observe the hand recounts that are likely to take place in 19 sites , representing all 83 counties across the state.meanwhile , michigan republicans said the request for a hand recount of presidential votes could cost taxpayers up to $ 12 million , a dozen times more than stein will have to pay.i m not sure why the votes that were counted by machines that were said to be counting votes more than once ( and perhaps even multiple times ) in a heavily democratic county are allowed to stand in the final count and will not be recounted .
why were those voted included in the final vote that was certified by the state of mi ? watch at the end when the reporter asks the election official if mi residents should be concerned about those votes and he simply glosses over his question :