cairo ( reuters ) - egypt s court of cassation upheld a five-year jail sentence against prominent opposition activist alaa abdel fattah on wednesday , judicial sources said , a final ruling that can not be appealed .
abdel fattah , who has already served more than three years in prison , was jailed for protesting without permission in breach of a 2013 law that rights groups say effectively bans protests .
the blogger and software engineer was a leading voice amongst the tech-savvy liberal youth who initially led the 2011 uprising that ended the 30-year-rule of hosni mubarak .
he is one of several activists jailed since the military overthrew islamist president mohamed mursi in 2013 after mass protests and cracked down on his muslim brotherhood movement and secular democracy activists .
the government has proscribed the muslim brotherhood as a terrorist organization but denies it has cracked down on secular democracy activists .
prosecutors said abdel fattah was guilty of organizing a protest in november 2013 because he had promoted it on social media .
rights groups say authorities were only able to prosecute abdel fattah , who did not attend the protest , by invoking a century old law of assembly that institutes collective punishment for all those involved in an illegal gathering .
they say the 1914-era law was in fact repealed in 1928 and courts should not be using it .
they have sued the president over its use but there has been no response from the government .
abdel fattah is also on trial in a separate case where he is accused of insulting the judiciary , a charge that carries up to three years in jail .
a verdict is scheduled for december .
egyptian rights activists say they face the worst crackdown in history under general-turned-president abdel fattah al-sisi , who they accuse of erasing freedoms won in the 2011 uprising .
sisi , seen in the west as a bulwark against extremism in the region , has urged his critics to not judge egypt s rights records by western standards , saying security and economic prosperity are also human rights .