a petition calling on the obama administration to investigate alleged voter suppression and voter fraud in the arizona primary has received 100,000 signatures in only 24 hours .
that means that the white house must provide a public response on the matter.if it was not clear that people are furious over the arizona primary fiasco , it should be now .
thousands of voter were forced to wait for hours in line during the election .
phoenix s mayor , greg stanton , has even sent a letter to the justice department demanding that they launch an investigation into the primary .
maricopa county appears to be the county hit hardest by the election disaster .
maricopa county is a racially diverse area , meaning people of color were also disproportionately hurt by this disaster.here is the full text of the petition : petition to have the obama administration investigate the voter fraud and voter suppression on 3/22/2016 in arizona .
numerous voters who switched from independent to democrat could not vote and were turned away or given provisional ballots which in turn were never counted .
we the people of the united states of america find this act alarming and would like a complete investigation to uncover the violations that occurred during the arizona voting on 3/22/2016 and prosecute those responsible to the fullest extent of the law .
in maricopa county , there was only one polling location available for every 108,000 residents .
that s because county officials decided to cut the number of polling locations down by 85 % compared to the number of 2008 presidential preference election.to further demonstrate the slap in the face that was the arizona primary election , the associated press began projecting clinton as the winner of the race while hundreds of voters still stood in line waiting to vote .
regardless of whether those still waiting in line may have changed the outcome of the election , we live in a democracy where every vote matters .
announcing the projected winner ( s ) of an election sends a message to those who waited hours in lines that their attempts to participate in our democracy were nothing but a waste of time.then there is the matter of the thousands of voters who waited hours in line , only to be told that they can not vote due their party affiliation .
those people were given the option to fill out a provisional ballot .
that sounds like a good solution to a very unfortunate problem .
however , arizona has a long history of provisional ballots being rejected , at rates double that of states with double the size of arizona s population.this hurts voters that the democrats need the most .
namely young and or first-time voters and those who wish to jump the sinking ship that is the republican party and those registered as independents .
an estimated 4,000 people in maricopa county changed their political party affiliation from independent to democrat prior to the election.featured image photo by jonathan gibby/getty images