havana ( reuters ) - the cuban diplomats expelled from the united states this week included all those dealing with u.s. businesses , cuba s embassy in washington told reuters on thursday , dealing another blow to bilateral commercial ties .
in an escalating crisis between the cold war foes , the trump administration on tuesday expelled 15 diplomats to protest communist-run cuba s failure to protect u.s. embassy staff in havana from a mysterious spate of alleged health attacks .
due to this decision , the activities developed by the economic and trade office of the embassy of cuba to the united states ... will be seriously affected , one cuban diplomat said in a farewell message to a u.s. group that takes investors to the caribbean s largest island .
the cuban embassy is often the first step in the process for u.s. companies to explore opportunities and make a pitch .
officials help them submit a trip proposal , seek out counterparts at state-owned enterprises in the centralized economy , and receive a business visa to travel to havana .
whether the embassy will still be issuing such visas remains unclear , given one diplomat will remain in the consular section .
on the american side , the downgrade of the u.s. embassy - washington last friday ordered the departure of all non-emergency staff - will likely make it harder for u.s. companies to find their way in cuba .
it s the chilling effect of a diplomatic crisis , said pedro freyre , a cuban-born attorney who heads the international practice at law firm akerman .
some u.s. companies may choose to stay on the sidelines until relations improve , he said , adding that his clients already pursuing opportunities in cuba were staying the course as they saw it as a long-term play .
u.s. companies flocked to cuba in the wake of the detente former democratic president barack obama agreed in 2014 .
some deals allowed by new exemptions to the decades-old u.s. embargo have come to fruition .
american airlines ( aal.o ) and united airlines ( ual.n ) now run commercial flights to cuba .
royal caribbean ( rcl.n ) and carnival corp ( ccl.n ) operate cruises there .
the original frenzy in u.s. commercial interest in cuba was tempered by the realization that doing business in cash-strapped cuba was difficult and even harder with a trade embargo in place .
businesses now face a hostile stance from republican u.s. president donald trump , who in june ordered tighter restrictions on travel and trade that have yet to be unveiled .
last friday , his administration issued a warning on travel to the island .