new york ( reuters ) - hurricane irma s path of destruction up florida s gulf coast on sunday threatens to disrupt a thriving state tourism industry worth more than $ 100 billion annually just months ahead of the busy winter travel season .
some of the state s biggest attractions have announced temporary closures , including amusement park giants walt disney world s magic kingdom , universal studios , legoland and sea world , which all planned to close through monday .
about 20 cruise lines have miami as a home port or a port of call , according to the portmiami website , and many have had to move ships out of the area and revise schedules .
carnival cruise lines and royal caribbean have canceled and revised several sailings as a result of the storm and have offered credits and waivers on trips where passengers are unable to travel .
a carnival spokesman said the situation in florida on sunday was still not clear enough to fully assess how widespread the effects will be .
we will know more in the hours ahead since the hurricane is active in florida right now , spokesman roger frizzell said .
irma made a second florida landfall on sunday on southwestern marco island as a category 3 storm bringing winds of 115 miles per hour ( 185 kph ) and life-threatening sea surge .
disney canceled the monday sailing of one of its cruise ships and said it is assessing future sailings , which stop throughout the caribbean and in the bahamas .
florida is one of the world s top tourism destinations .
last year nearly 113 million people visited the state , a new record , and spent $ 109 billion , state officials said earlier this year .
the first half of 2017 was on track to beat that record pace , officials said .
the damage irma s winds and storm surge do to florida s 660 miles ( 1,060 km ) of beaches and the structures built along them during more than 30 years of explosive population growth will be critical to how quickly the state s s no .
1 industry recovers .
the gulf beaches west of st. petersburg and clearwater , are squarely in the storm s path .
in 2016 , more than 6.3 million people visited pinellas county , which encompasses those cities , and generated more $ 9.7 billion in economic activity .
up and down the wide , sandy beaches of pinellas county are traditional old florida waterfront hotels such as the don cesar , a coral pink 1920s hotel on st. pete beach , which was closed by the storm .
there are also modern high-rises and resorts that are part of the nation s biggest chains and brands including hyatt hotels , marriott international , intercontinental hotels group , hilton hotels & resorts and ritz-carlton hotel company .
the low-lying barrier islands would be inundated if irma s storm surge reaches forecast heights of as high as 15 feet ( 4.6 meters ) .
while some newer structures in the area are built on elevated pilings , many older homes and businesses are not .