niamey ( reuters ) - a part of southwestern niger where four u.s. green berets were killed during a mission the u.s. military had considered low-risk has seen at least 46 attacks by armed groups since early last year , a u.n. agency said on friday .
the deaths of the four u.s. soldiers and ensuing confusion over what happened during the oct. 4 ambush have thrown a spotlight on the u.s. counter-terrorism mission in the west african nation , where about 800 u.s. troops are deployed .
four nigerien soldiers were also killed .
u.s. forces do not have a direct combat role in niger and instead provide assistance to its army , including intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance support .
several islamist militant groups are known to operate in the area near the border with mali where the ambush occurred , however , and u.s. officials later said a local islamic state affiliate was suspected of carrying it out .
following the attack near the village of tongotongo , the u.s. military s africa command said the soldiers mission to meet with local leaders was considered low-risk so there was no armed air cover .
according to non-exhaustive information gathered in the ( tahoua and tillabery ) regions , 46 attacks perpetrated by armed groups have been recorded , a note from the u.n. humanitarian coordination agency said on friday .
seven districts in the tahoua and tillabery have been under a state of emergency since march , and the government renewed the measure for an additional three months on sept. 18 .
niger s army launched a military operation to reestablish security in tillabery in june .
the deadly incident has become a political football in washington amid criticism of u.s. president donald trump s handling of condolence messages to the families of the dead soldiers .
senator john mccain , chairman of the senate armed services committee , said on thursday he may consider issuing a subpoena because he said the white house has not been forthcoming with details of the ambush .
from initial accounts , the 40-member patrol , which included a dozen u.s. troops , came under attack by militants riding in a dozen vehicles and on about 20 motorcycles .
under heavy fire , u.s. troops called in french fighter jets for air support , but the firefight was at such close quarters that the planes could not engage and were instead left circling overhead .
french aircraft evacuated the wounded , but the body of one of the dead soldiers was recovered by nigerien soldiers only after two days .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis told reporters on thursday that the incident was under investigation and defended the military s response , even as he acknowledged that it did not yet have all the accurate information on the incident .