lucedale , miss ( reuters ) - mississippi ’ s vast flatlands , laced with the remains of a fading industrial base , are fertile ground for the incendiary populism of donald trump .
for the insurgent presidential candidate , there ’ s plenty of voter outrage to tap into here and in a swathe of other southern states that could push trump closer to securing the republican presidential nomination in the coming weeks .
mississippi ’ s unemployment rate is among the highest in the nation : more than 75,000 manufacturing jobs have disappeared in the past 15 years ; and white voters at the core of the state ’ s republican party fear the rise of immigrant workers .
the deep economic dislocation felt by many in mississippi , reflected in reuters interviews with dozens of voters , explains how trump is attracting broad-based support in southern states , including from many evangelical christian voters prepared to overlook his past liberal positions on touchstone social issues .
in south carolina last weekend , exit polls showed trump comfortably beat both his closest rivals ted cruz and marco rubio among evangelical voters , despite their more consistent appeals to christian values .
“ look at immigration , look at terrorism , look at the things that really matter , ” said heather fox , a field director for the trump campaign in mississippi .
“ if we don ’ t have a country , it ’ s not going to matter about the bible or the constitution because we are going to be dead and gone , ” she added during a recent gathering of republican voters in a holiday inn conference room in lucedale , southern mississippi , that began with a prayer .
caleb howell , a baptist deacon , says even those with jobs often see little chance of promotion .
“ there are not many options , ” he said , “ even for preachers. ” from the mississippi coast through alabama , tennessee and the appalachian coalfields of kentucky , america ’ s economic recovery has been patchy if not outright elusive .
the four-state region is the country ’ s least educated and least well paid , according to federal jobs data .
politically , the region has emerged as a bedrock of support for billionaire real estate mogul trump , who has hammered home his pledge to return america to “ winning ” ways versus foreign competitors and foes .
in polling conducted for reuters by ipsos , mississippi , alabama , tennessee and kentucky ranked among trump ’ s top seven states nationally , with more than 40 percent of republicans and independent poll participants backing him .
( see this graphic on census data from trump 's heartland .
here ) alabama and tennessee vote on march 1 on “ super tuesday ” , along with 13 other states and territories in the heated race to select the republican party ’ s presidential candidate .
kentucky holds a republican caucus on march 5 and mississippians vote in their party primary on march 8 .
the 2007 to 2009 economic crisis fell particularly hard on mississippi and neighboring states .
the number of jobs fell faster than in much of the rest of the country , climbed back more slowly , and as of last year remained more than 200,000 short of where it was before the crisis , federal data show .
economic and cultural dislocation runs strong , whether it ’ s anger over washington ’ s regulatory reach into industries like coal mining , the perceived threat to conservative values on issues like same-sex marriage , or the conviction that the economy no longer works for average americans .
a nation-leading 32 percent of the adult population in the four-state region has only a high school degree , a problem at a time when the fastest job and wage growth is in occupations that require a bachelor ’ s degree or more .
since 2000 , jobs available in mississippi for those with only a high school degree fell five percent , according to a reuters analysis of federal occupational data .
between 2000 and 2014 , median household income fell nearly 12 percent in mississippi , about twice as fast as the overall u.s. decline , adjusted for inflation .
income among white households fell slightly more than 12 percent , compared to a decline of less than five percent for all whites nationally .
“ we ’ re shipping out all the work and bringing in all the people that don ’ t want to work , ” said walter wright , 46 , who owns a real-estate company in hurley , mississippi .
he said he supports trump because of his tough build-a-wall approach to stopping illegal immigration and because “ he is angry. ” although the region has the lowest share of foreign-born residents in the country , at fewer than four percent , and the lowest portion of hispanic residents , whether born in the u.s. or elsewhere , the numbers have been growing .
in alabama and mississippi , for instance , the hispanic population more than doubled from 2000 to 2010 .
that ’ s coincided with a difficult economy .
mississippi , once a major builder of ships and furniture , has seen an exodus of thousands of jobs in both industries to china and mexico over the past two decades .
mississippi ’ s manufacturers shed 75,738 jobs between 2000 and 2015 , according to manufacturers ’ news inc , a publisher and compiler of industrial directories and databases .
“ we have had way too many industries shut down and now they are in brazil , they are in mexico , they are in china , ” said fox .
trump has said he will bring back american jobs “ from china , from mexico , from japan , from so many places. ” he has proposed doing this by slapping tariffs on foreign goods and negotiating better trade deals .
he has threatened a 35 percent tax on ford motor corp vehicles made in mexico that are brought back to the united states to be sold .
most economists doubt trump can revive manufacturing on its former scale in mississippi or elsewhere , especially for unskilled workers .
his threats also risk a trade war that could backfire by raising costs and hurting american jobs .
while trade deals like the north american free trade agreement may have shifted some jobs abroad , the integration of global supply chains has also helped tennessee stand out in the region with its booming auto industry , and drawn foreign companies like airbus to mobile , alabama .
republican party officials say trump has strong support , especially in northwest alabama where international paper co shut a 43-year-old plant in 2014 , laying off 1,100 workers .
“ the day of putting on a suit and tie at 6 in the morning and getting a clean cut shave and taking your briefcase to an office somewhere , it ’ s gone , ” said blake nash , 29 , a trump supporter whose mother was let go at the plant in 2006 .
in nash ’ s town of lexington , near the tennessee border , red , white and blue trump signs sprout from streets studded with baptist churches , the only banners of any presidential candidate in the area .
nash , who has no health insurance and calls his university degree in health sciences worthless , recently applied for a job with a company that contracts work with boeing co and lockheed martin corp , but was rejected because he didn ’ t have the right training .
with good jobs at home scarce , he works on contract in other states such as texas .
many farmers in lauderdale county , the location of the international paper plant , relied on the factory for their primary income , said charlie thompson , a farmer who worked there for 34 years and lost his job in 2014 .
thompson , 58 , former president of the lauderdale county farmers federation , estimates that about 15 percent of the sacked workers were farmers , further straining a county where the number of farms was already in decline .
“ if you can equate signs in the yard with being popular , i would say probably trump is a front runner around here , ” said thompson .
still , a win is no sure thing .
at the lucedale forum , chris mcdaniel , a republican state senator in mississippi and cruz supporter , hammered at trump ’ s inconsistency on conservative hot-button issues such as abortion .
“ how sure and solid has trump been ?
just a few years ago , he was pro-choice , ” mcdaniel said , referring to a television interview trump gave in 1999 when he said “ i ’ m very pro-choice ” and that he would not ban partial-birth abortions .
he has since said he is against abortion .
“ we are kind of afraid of what he has been in the past , ” said gussie vise , 71 , a retired teacher and wife of a local preacher .
she is leaning toward cruz but says of trump , “ we like him . ”