liberals like to use the term right wing extremists .
they like to blame the christian faith every time a planned parenthood abortion mill is shot up or an abortion doctor is killed .
but the minute a muslim terrorists kills or harms another human being , religion somehow , has nothing to do with it .
america woke up to the horrible news of an unimaginable mass murder against over 100 innocent people in orlando yesterday , at the hands of a muslim man , who openly pledged his allegiance to isis .
instead of addressing america with a call to vigilance against muslim radicals , obama predictably called for gun control .
not that it comes as a surprise , but his friends over at the radical al jazeera news agree.omar mateen called the cops to pledge his fealty to isis as he was carrying out his mass murder in orlando early sunday .
twelve hours later , the president of the united states declared that we have no definitive assessment on the motivation of omar mateen but that we know he was a person filled with hate .
so i guess the president thinks mateen didn t mean it ? here again , and horribly , we have an unmistakable indication that obama finds it astonishingly easy to divorce himself from a reality he doesn t like the reality of the islamist terror war against the united states and how it is moving to our shores in the form of lone-wolf attacks.he called it terror , which it is .
but using the word terror without a limiting and defining adjective is like a doctor calling a disease cancer without making note of the affected area of the body because if he doesn t know where the cancer is and what form it takes , he can not attack it effectively and seek to extirpate it.so determined is the president to avoid the subject of islamist , isis-inspired or isis-directed terrorism that he concluded his remarks with an astonishing insistence that we need the strength and courage to change our attitudes toward the gay , lesbian , bisexual and transgender community.that s just disgusting .
there s no other word for it .
via : nypwe re seeing the demonization of the ar- ! 5 all over liberal media in the wake of the orlando terrorist attack .
as usual they seek to deflect from the real problem , the islamic terrorism , and try to shift blame to gun .
it s perhaps particularly galling given that their readership is cheering the attack.so some facts for al jazeera and other fact-challenged liberal media.ar-15 is not an assault rifle and is not an automatic rifle .
fully automatic rifles have been severely restricted from civilian ownership since 1934 .
ar-15 is semi-automatic like most guns and is no more powerful than any other common rifle .
it fires only one round with each pull of the trigger.the ar in ar-15 rifle stands for armalite rifle , after the company that developed it in the 1950s .
ar does not stand for assault rifle or automatic rifle .
the ar-15 is one of the most common rifles in the country , popular for hunting , sport or self-defense.al jazeera is even incorrect in referring in the graphic to a magazine as a clip .
a clip is a device that is used to store multiple rounds of ammunition together as a unit , ready for insertion into the magazine or cylinder of a firearm.what they leave out in all this deflection of course is that the shooter was an islamic terrorist , a registered democrat , doing it in the name of isis .
via : weasel zippersal jazeera facebook page celebrates orlando terror attack :