because after all , what s more offensive than choosing to allow your baby to live ? the pro-life message can be classified as patently offensive , a federal appeals court ruled last week .
the new opinion came as a three-judge panel ruled that new york state was right to reject a choose life license plate on the grounds that it may grate on new yorkers political sensibilities.the judges split on whether new york could deny a pro-adoption group the right to have its own license plate , although the state has in the past allowed plates endorsing political causes associated with the liberal viewpoint , such as environmentalism.judge rosemary pooler , who was appointed by president clinton , wrote that the state s denial did not harm anyone s right to freedom of expression , because drivers may display a choose life bumper sticker or even cover every available square inch of their vehicle with such stickers .
that message will resonate just as loudly as if vehicle displayed a choose life license plate .
judge debra ann livingston , a president george w. bush appointee , wrote in her dissent that a proposed custom plate depicting a sun and two smiling children , and bearing the words , choose life [ thought ] to be patently offensive was surprising .
pro-adoption organizations should have the same speech rights as any other organization .
while the district court affirmed this basic freedom , the circuit court denied free speech in favor of government censorship , said jeremy tedesco , senior counsel at adf .
the state doesn t have the authority to target the children first foundation specialty plates for censorship based on its life-affirming viewpoint .
the ruling is the lastest round in a legal battle that has raged for more than a decade and , pro-lifers say , seen state officials repeatedly suppress their first amendment rights.the children first foundation applied for the specialty license plate in 2002 , but state officials say the message and design was too controversial .
in 2004 , the alliance defending freedom filed a lawsuit on cff s behalf.new york s department of motor vehicles repeatedly denied the choose life license plates on the grounds that the message was patently offensive .
the same appeals court rejected an effort to suppress the plates made by then-attorney general eliot spitzer and agreed that albany officials denied the plates based on viewpoint discrimination.via : lifesite news