obama decides to nominate merrick garland for the supreme court even though the senate announced they would wait until a new administration to confirm a nominee .
this is an attempt to box in the republicans in the senate .
this nominee is left on some things and right on others like criminal justice but has been supported in the past as a judge who will articulate a broad progressive vision for the law .
this should be interesting : to be clear , garland s record does not suggest that he would join the court s right flank if confirmed to the supreme court .
he would likely vote much more often than not with the supreme court s liberals .
here s the skinny on left leaning garland : garland is unquestionably qualified to sit on the supreme court .
a 19 year veteran of the dc circuit a court that is widely viewed as the second-most powerful in the nation garland graduated with high honors from harvard law school .
he clerked for justice william brennan , and spent a few years as a partner in the multinational law firm arnold and porter .
he also held senior positions in the justice department , including a leadership role in the department s criminal division and a stint as principal associate deputy attorney general.at age 63 , garland is also the oldest person nominated to the supreme court since president nixon named justice lewis powell in 1971 .
thus , if confirmed , garland is unlikely to match or even approach justice scalia s nearly 30 years on the supreme court .
garland s relatively advanced age may help explain why hatch floated the dc circuit chief judge as his ideal obama nominee .
another factor that almost certainly played a role is garland s reputation for moderation .
in 2003 , for example , garland joined an opinion holding that the federal judiciary lacks the authority to assert habeas corpus jurisdiction at the behest of an alien held at a military base leased from another nation , a military base outside the sovereignty of the united states an opinion that effectively prohibited guantanamo bay detainees from seeking relief in civilian courts .
a little over a year later , the supreme court reversed this decision in rasul v. bush .
although , in fairness , it should be noted that legal experts disagree about whether the decision garland joined was mandated by existing precedents .
the former prosecutor also has a relatively conservative record on criminal justice .
a 2010 examination of his decisions by scotus blog s tom goldstein determined that judge garland rarely votes in favor of criminal defendants appeals of their convictions .
goldstein identified only eight such published rulings , in addition to seven where he voted to reverse the defendant s sentence in whole or in part , or to permit the defendant to raise a argument relating to sentencing on remand , during the 13 years garland had then spent on the dc circuit .
to be clear , garland s record does not suggest that he would join the court s right flank if confirmed to the supreme court .
he would likely vote much more often than not with the supreme court s liberals.read more : think progress