paris ( reuters ) - qatar s foreign minister said on monday that u.s. president donald trump was stepping up efforts for a diplomatic solution to the crisis in the gulf .
trump initially took a hard line against qatar , calling it a high level sponsor of terrorism after saudi arabia , the uae , bahrain and egypt shook the region by cutting political and trade ties with the small state in june .
the action suspended air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al-thani told reporters in paris that he had seen a greater desire from trump to fix the stand-off through discussion .
he has stated very clearly that he doesn t want to see conflict among friends .
so there is a determination by the u.s. to solve this by dialogue .
there was no immediate comment from the white house .
in trump s initial comments in june , he suggested he had helped plan the qatar action with arab leaders , though last week he said he expected the dispute to be solved quickly .
the nations say doha supports regional foe iran and islamists , charges qatar s leaders deny .
al-thani said qatar was doing well economically despite the sanctions , but said the arab action was actually driving qatar closer to tehran , something doha has acknowledged in the past .
they said qatar was now closer to iran .
by their measures they are pushing qatar to iran .
they are giving iran , or any regional force , qatar like a gift , he said .
is that their objective , to push one country , a gcc ( gulf cooperation council ) member state toward iran ?
this is not a wise objective , he added .
al-thani said qatar s position over syria had not changed .
both qatar and saudi arabia have backed syrian rebels , despite their differences .
after eight months , after the militarization of the ( syrian ) revolution , this is when qatar decided to take a side .
we decided to stand with the people , said al-thani .
our position - will it be changed because blockading nations have a dispute with us ?
that would mean our principles that we are fighting for our worthless .
our position and the values which we have stuck to from the beginning have remained the same .
war criminals need to be held accountable , he added .