harare ( reuters ) - the spectacular rise and fall of zimbabwe s uncompromising first lady , grace mugabe , had an unusual beginning : an office affair .
it was the early 1990s when president robert mugabe s eye fell upon one of his shy young typists .
she would become his wife , a ferociously ambitious politician and , more than two decades later , a contributor to the downfall of her 93-year-old husband .
president mugabe is trying to cling to power after the military took over this week in response to his purge of vice president emmerson mnangagwa , 75 , a liberation war fighter and grace s sworn enemy .
mnangagwa s aides even accused her of trying to poison him with ice cream from her dairy farm this year .
she denies this .
grace , now 52 and under house arrest in harare , had been calling for mnangagwa s removal for weeks as the two fought an increasingly bitter winner-takes-all contest to succeed the man who has led zimbabwe since independence from britain in 1980 .
it wasn t the first time grace had wielded influence over her husband .
when it appeared former vice president joice majuru was in line to succeed mugabe in 2014 , he fired her following public rallies at which grace derided majuru .
this time she appears to have gone too far .
the purge of mnangagwa and many of his comrades irked the military , who had no intention of allowing grace and her youthful generation 40 ( g40 ) faction of the ruling zanu-pf to take over the political reins .
deeply unpopular among much of the zimbabwean public due to her alleged corruption and volatile temper , grace does not have the liberation credentials the military believe are required to be a zimbabwean ruler .
the lavish lifestyle that earned her the nickname gucci grace and the political ambition that almost propelled her to the presidency were not evident when she met her future husband .
he just started talking to me , asking me about my life , she told a south african journalist in 2013 .
i didn t know it was leading somewhere .
i was quite a shy person , very shy .
at the time , they were both married .
president mugabe s wife , sally , was desperately ill and died in 1992 .
grace and robert were married in 1996 and have three children .
dis-grace at first grace stayed out of politics and was better known for her spending habits , including buying mansions in south africa , rare diamond jewelry , and rolls-royce limousines for her playboy sons .
then there are the repeated allegations of violence .
in singapore in 2009 , photographer richard jones says grace flew into a rage when he tried to take her picture .
she ordered her bodyguards to hold his arms back while she punched him repeatedly in the face .
grace denies the assault .
in august this year , grace was accused of beating a young south african model who was partying with her sons .
according to gabriella engels , grace burst into a hotel room where she was talking with friends and whipped her with an electric cable as bodyguards looked on .
grace says she acted in self-defense after engels tried to stab her with a knife .
the reports of lavish spending and explosive temper earned her the title dis-grace back home in zimbabwe , where an economic crisis had left most of the 16 million population mired in poverty and unemployment .
zimbabweans also question grace s credentials .
eyebrows were raised in 2014 when she gained a phd in three months .
her thesis , on the changing role of the family , has never been published .
this hasn t stopped her trying to reach the political summit .
when majuru was removed , grace became head of the zanu-pf women s league , giving her a seat at the party s top table .
she used her political platform to take on mnangagwa and his allies and made a push to succeed her frail husband .
they say i want to be president .
why not ?
am i not a zimbabwean ?
grace said at a recent rally .