birmingham , ala. ( reuters ) - dogged by accusations of sexual misconduct toward teenagers , republican u.s. senate candidate roy moore cast himself as a staunch ally of president donald trump at a rally on the eve of tuesday ’ s election in alabama .
despite trump ’ s endorsement for moore , some polls suggest democrat doug jones , 63 , a former u.s. attorney , could pull off an upset victory by becoming the first non-republican to be sent to the senate by deeply conservative alabama in two decades .
steve bannon , trump ’ s former chief strategist and executive at the right-wing breitbart news site , joined moore in midland city for the monday night rally , labeled a “ drain the swamp ” event , in an echo of trump ’ s 2016 campaign pledge to get rid of washington insiders .
“ i want to make america great again with president trump , ” moore said .
“ i want america great , but i want america good , and she can ’ t be good until we go back to god. ” moore , a 70-year-old conservative christian and former alabama supreme court chief justice , has been accused by several women of pursuing them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s , including one woman who said he tried to initiate sexual contact with her when she was 14 .
moore has denied any misconduct .
reuters has not independently verified any of the accusations .
the alabama race has divided trump ’ s republican party .
the sexual misconduct accusations prompted many senior republicans , including senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , to distance themselves from moore .
“ there ’ s a special place in hell for republicans who should know better , ” bannon told the rally , framing the alabama election as a showdown between establishment elites and populist power .
a fox news poll conducted on thursday and released on monday put jones ahead of moore , with jones potentially taking 50 percent of the vote and moore 40 percent .
fox said 8 percent of voters were undecided and 2 percent supported another candidate .
an average of recent polls by the realclearpolitics website showed moore ahead by a slight margin of 2.2 percentage points .
trump taped a “ robo-call ” that the campaign has rolled out urging voters to back the republican candidate in order to help support the president ’ s agenda .
democrats also made robo-calls using two of their party ’ s own big guns - former president barack obama and former vice president joe biden .
jones has said he wanted to be a “ voice for reason ” for alabama and has touted a record that includes prosecuting former ku klux klan members responsible for the 1963 bombing of a black church in birmingham in which four girls were killed .
jones has spent the past week rallying african-americans , the most reliably democratic voters in the state , and hammering moore in television ads .
he has told supporters that his campaign is a chance to be on the “ right side of history for the state of alabama. ” if jones wins on tuesday , republicans would control the senate by a slim 51-49 margin , giving democrats much-needed momentum ahead of the november 2018 congressional elections , when control of both chambers of congress will be at stake .
moore ’ s campaign has cast jones as a liberal out of step with alabama voters , seizing on the democrat ’ s support of abortion rights .
many republican officials in alabama , including governor kay ivey , say they will vote for moore .
but the state ’ s senior republican senator , richard shelby , said he did not vote for moore and instead backed a write-in candidate on his absentee ballot , telling cnn that alabama “ deserves better ” than moore .
moore , who was twice removed from the state supreme court for refusing to abide by federal law , may find a chilly reception in washington if he wins .
republican leaders have said moore could face an ethics investigation if alabama voters send him to the u.s. senate .
democrats have signaled they may use moore ’ s election to tar republicans as insensitive to women ’ s concerns at a time when allegations of sexual harassment have caused many prominent men working in politics , entertainment , media and business to lose their jobs .