it appears that a hacker had a bit of fun with mcdonald s corporate twitter account thursday morning .
you are actually a disgusting excuse of a president and we would love to have barack obama back , also you have tiny hands , the account tweeted to donald trump and whichever nameless hero did it even pinned the tweet.apparently , the hacker wanted to take the opportunity to make a completely accurate statement about trump but the donald s fans will surely be boycotting the fast food giant by buying cheeseburgers and writing trump on the wrapper or something stupid like when they tried to boycott starbucks by buying coffee.naturally , the internet is lovin it : ca n't wait for @ realdonaldtrump to tell us mcdonald 's is overrated and that he does n't even eat mcdonalds .
pic.twitter.com/gkks2okkmq cole ledford ( @ coleledford11 ) march 16 , 2017 @ thehill boycott incoming ? ? ? ? ? ?
aka mcdonald 's will have record sales .
emjaykay ( @ xmattymayhemx ) march 16 , 2017gotta do some soul searching if mcdonald 's calls you disgusting .
tbg ( @ thatboysgood ) march 16 , 2017wendy 's : haha , totally roasted this guy on here for forgetting refrigerators exist .
so edgy .
mcdonald 's : hold my beer pic.twitter.com/qc28ixmuze aaron sankin ( @ asankin ) march 16 , 2017nsa agents have a suspect for the author of the mcdonald 's tweet pic.twitter.com/kkbl5pisfj dave itzkoff ( @ ditzkoff ) march 16 , 2017i shall eat at @ mcdonalds this weekend in support of this brave social media manager 's kick-ass tweet .
everyone join me !
# dumptrump pic.twitter.com/oter4xublk michael erickson ( @ mistererickson ) march 16 , 2017times have changed pic.twitter.com/zrichp0ssl tim mak ( @ timkmak ) march 16 , 2017dammit mcdonald 's , stop trying to win back my business so blatantly .
pic.twitter.com/auggs2tst2 alex kennedy ( @ ajkjules ) march 16 , 2017omg , @ mcdonaldscorp , but where 's @ realdonaldtrump gon na get his big macs now ? ! ? ! ? !
pic.twitter.com/o5mgugkxes andrew kirell ( @ andrewkirell ) march 16 , 2017later in the day , mcdonald s tweeted that their account was compromised and that the tweet , which had long been deleted , had been deleted.twitter notified us that our account was compromised .
we deleted the tweet , secured our account and are now investigating this .
mcdonald 's ( @ mcdonaldscorp ) march 16 , 2017but we will always remember the heroic hacker who took control of mcdonald s corporate twitter account and forced it to tell the truth about our alleged president.featured image via screengrab