washington ( reuters ) - the senate banking committee approved barack obama ’ s choice to be the treasury department ’ s undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence by a 14-8 vote on thursday , nearly 11 months after the president nominated him .
obama nominated adam szubin in april 2015 for the post , which oversees u.s. sanctions as well as efforts to cut off money illegally flowing to nations such as iran and north korea and groups including islamic state .
but his nomination got caught up in partisan fighting over foreign policy , particularly the international nuclear agreement with iran announced in july , between the administration of obama , a democrat , and republicans who control congress .
senator richard shelby , the banking panel ’ s chairman , did not allow votes on any of obama ’ s nominees until after surviving a challenge in alabama ’ s primary on march 1 .
all eight of the “ no ” votes on the committee were from republicans , although four republicans joined all of the panel ’ s 10 democrats in recommending szubin .
the nomination must still be approved by the full senate .
shelby , who voted no , told reporters the nominee “ is a nice man , ” and qualified for many jobs .
“ but the policies he would have to carry out , a lot of us oppose them. ” in a statement issued later , he said , “ mr .
szubin ’ s role at the treasury department has required him to both promote and defend the administration ’ s ill-conceived iran nuclear agreement .
i could not support his nomination today because of his participation in facilitating a deal that i believe is crippling to our national security. ” the deal between iran and major powers eases international sanctions on tehran in exchange for curbs on iran ’ s nuclear program .
the banking panel was the only committee in the u.s. senate that did not vote on any obama nominee in 2015 .
about 14 are still outstanding .
shelby said he did not know when the full senate might vote on szubin , who is currently acting undersecretary .
“ the simple fact is that the senate should have unanimously confirmed mr. szubin last spring instead of keeping him in limbo for almost an entire year , ” senator sherrod brown , the committee ’ s top democrat , said in a statement .
besides shelby , republican senators mike crapo , tom cotton , dean heller , mark kirk , ben sasse , tim scott and pat toomey opposed szubin ’ s nomination .
republicans bob corker , david vitter , mike rounds and jerry moran backed him .