warsaw ( reuters ) - poland will allocate an additional 200 billion zlotys ( $ 55 billion ) on defense over the next 15 years to modernize its army amid signs of growing aggression from russia , a deputy defense minister said .
russia s zapad military exercises next month in belarus and western russia , the largest in years , have raised concerns for their lack of transparency , with nato worried the official number of troops participating might be understated .
nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg will visit poland on thursday and friday to check on deployment of u.s. troops in the east of the country and to meet polish , romanian and turkish government officials .
poland , alarmed by what it sees as russia s assertiveness on nato s eastern flank , has lobbied hard for the stationing of nato troops on its soil , especially since moscow s annexation of crimea in 2014 .
the government has approved a legislative amendment ... which gives us nearly 200 billion zlotys over the next 15 years , deputy defense minister tomasz szatkowski said , adding that this was in line with plans to raise defense spending gradually to reach 2.5 percent of gross domestic product .
this is not a trivial amount , he told reuters in an interview .
the polish government agreed in june to raise defense spending gradually from 2 pct to 2.5 percent of gdp .
this means that annual spending would nearly double to about 80 billion zlotys by 2032 .
szatkowski , architect of a new national concept for defense , said that although the ministry would be getting almost all the money needed to implement the strategy , some hard choices will have to be made .
the plan is to increase the size of the army nearly twofold and revamp the equipment .
nearly two-thirds of equipment dates from the soviet era when the country was in the moscow-led warsaw pact .
the navy , though , will fare less well from modernization .
the ministry has canceled the purchase of two classes of surface vessels , including multi-task frigates used to protect other warships .
we can not afford to expand the transport fleet , szatkowski said .
higher spending on artillery , engineering or assault helicopters will come at the cost of expanding the airborne forces .
warsaw plans to acquire fifth-generation fighter jets , but szatkowski said that this would not happen until the second half of the next decade .
szatkowski defended the spending plans which have been criticized as unrealistic .
nobody can release from us the obligation of planning and creating a coherent vision and proving there is money for it - something that is happening for the first time on such a scope in the history of polish defense planning , he said .