washington/new york ( reuters ) - the obama administration will release a long-awaited proposal on retirement advice on wednesday , according to a person familiar with the matter .
at an event at the center for american progress think tank , the u.s. government will unveil its proposed rule requiring brokers who provide retirement advice to follow a “ fiduciary ” standard of putting clients ’ interests before their own .
the proposal aims to end potential conflicts of interest by brokers who advise on individual retirement accounts and to protect consumers from buying unnecessary investment products .
required by the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform law , the rule has followed a tortuous path toward fruition .
financial companies and lawmakers have worried that the rule ’ s requirements could drive up costs and keep middle- and low-income people from being able to afford retirement services .
the labor department , which regulates retirement plan advice , withdrew its initial proposal in 2011 after criticism from the financial services and insurance industries and leaders in both political parties .
a new version was proposed a year ago after a nudge from president barack obama and discussions with the industry and lawmakers , who considered blocking funds needed for a standard .
in january , the labor department finished work on the rule and sent it to the white house ’ s office of management and budget for review .
even though the text was not released , both washington and wall street have been preparing for a possible fight over the latest version .
last month , the u.s. chamber of commerce said it is prepared to sue the federal government if it finds the rule unworkable .
“ the dol has been very prudent about how they ’ ve gone about this in trying to make their rule litigation-proof , but opponents will sue in court , ” said scott puritz , managing director of retirement services firm rebalance ira .
despite publicly opposing the rule , many money managers have privately been preparing for its release for several months .
firms including lpl financial holdings have been cutting fees and reducing the amounts clients can hold in their brokerage accounts , all in preparation for the rule .
“ the advice i ’ ve been giving broker-dealers and advisers is to get in front of the rule and explain it to clients now because after the rule is out , they ’ ll sound defensive , ” said john anderson who works with financial advisers at sei advisor network , part of at sei investments co ..
the labor department and center for american progress did not respond to requests for comment .