paris ( reuters ) - in his first seven months in office , president emmanuel macron has faced little opposition .
but on sunday , the once-dominant republicans , now the biggest opposition party in parliament , elected a new leader they hope will recover their voice .
the conservatives ambitious new chief , 42-year old laurent wauquiez , is a hard-hitting critic of the 39-year-old centrist president , whom he dismisses as out of touch with rural france , weak on security and too much in favor of closer european integration .
wauquiez wants the party to pull its weight after months when internal divisions and the shock from failing to make the run-off in this year s presidential election held them back .
tonight , the right is back !
he told supporters .
france needs the right because the president of the republic ( macron ) is passive against crime ... and not firm enough against radical islam , said wauquiez , who wants to relaunch the republicans by taking them further to the right .
he won an overwhelming mandate with three quarters of the near 100,000 votes cast by party members on sunday .
wauquiez bills himself as the champion of small-town , rural france - a france , he says , with which macron has no connection as he pursues a start-up nation .
while there are few policy parallels between the two men , wauquiez and macron actually have some traits in common .
both are younger than french political leaders usually are and are graduates from the country s top elite schools who promise to shake up the political establishment .
inside macron s camp , some ministers have cautioned against underestimating the threat of wauquiez .
we need to be wary because he is very gifted , very strong and there s nothing he won t do .
he will establish a violent fight , gerald darmanin , macron s budget minister and former member of the republicans , told the newspaper le monde .
but wauquiez s main challenge may well come from within .
he inherits a party divided in its response both to macron s poaching of party stalwarts and economic policy that encroaches on its turf .
moderate veterans , ill at ease with his wooing of far-right national front voters , have warned they could leave the party if he does not water down his hardline views .
and opinion polls show he is not popular with voters overall .
both far-left france unbowed leader jean-luc melenchon and far-right national front chief marine le pen have so far been viewed as stronger opponents to macron , polls have shown .
now the hard part begins , said jean-daniel levy , head of harris interactive pollsters .
wauquiez has time to turn the party around .
french voters will next go to the polls only in 2019 , for the european parliament election .
the next presidential and parliamentary elections will be in 2022 .