dubai ( reuters ) - iran s supreme court has upheld a death sentence against a sweden-based iranian academic convicted of spying for israel , the tehran prosecutor was quoted as saying on monday , confirming reports by amnesty international and his family .
ahmadreza djalali , a medical doctor and lecturer at the karolinska institute , a stockholm medical university , was accused of providing information to israel to help it assassinate several senior nuclear scientists .
djalali was arrested in iran in april 2016 and later convicted of espionage .
he has denied the charges , amnesty said .
at least four scientists were killed between 2010 and 2012 in what tehran said were assassinations meant to sabotage its efforts to develop nuclear energy .
western powers and israel said iran aimed to build a nuclear bomb .
tehran denied this .
the islamic republic hanged a man in 2012 over the killings , saying he was an agent for israeli intelligence agency mossad .
on monday , tehran prosecutor abbas jafari dolatabadi said the supreme court recently upheld the death sentence against djalali , the news site of iran s judiciary , mizan , reported .
dolatabadi said djalali had confessed to meeting mossad agents repeatedly to deliver information on iran s nuclear and defense plans and personnel , and helping to infect defense ministry computer systems with viruses , mizan reported .
london-based amnesty international and djalali s wife said earlier this month that his lawyers were told that the supreme court had considered his case and upheld his death sentence .
iranian state television broadcast last week what it described as djalali s confessions .
his wife said he had been forced by his interrogators to read the confession .
djalali was on a business trip to iran when he was arrested and sent to evin prison .
he was held in solitary confinement for three months of his detention and tortured , amnesty said .
it said djalali wrote a letter inside prison in august stating he was being held for refusing to spy for iran .
sweden condemned the sentence in october and said it had raised the matter with iranian envoys .
seventy-five nobel prize laureates petitioned iranian authorities last month to release djalali so he could continue his scholarly work for the benefit of mankind .