tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe said he would dissolve parliament s lower house on thursday for a snap election , seeking a mandate to stick to his tough stance toward a volatile north korea and rebalance the social security system .
abe , in power for five years , had been expected to call the election for next month to take advantage of improved support and disarray in the opposition camp .
i ll demonstrate strong leadership and stand at the forefront to face a national crisis , abe told reporters , mentioning japan s fast-ageing population and north korea .
this is my responsibility as leader and my mission as prime minister .
natsuo yamaguchi , the head of abe s junior coalition partner the komeito party , said he understood the election would be on oct. 22 .
abe said he would redirect some revenue from a planned sales tax hike in 2019 to child care and education rather than paying back public debt , although he added he would not abandon fiscal reform .
rebalancing the spending would offset the potential negative effect on consumption from the tax rise , he said .
we will turn japan s social security system into one that responds to all generations by boldly diverting policy resources to resolve the two major concerns - child rearing and ( elderly ) nursing care that working generations confront , he said .
abe rejected criticism that holding an election would create a political vacuum at a time of rising tension over north korea s missile and nuclear arms program .
pyongyang has fired ballistic missiles over japan twice in the last month and conducted its sixth and biggest nuclear test on sept. 3 we must not give in to north korea s threats .
by gaining a mandate from the people with this election , i will forge ahead with strong diplomacy , abe said , adding that now was the time to put more pressure on pyongyang , not open dialogue .
abe , whose ratings have risen to around 50 percent from around 30 percent in july , is gambling his ruling bloc can keep its lower house majority even if it loses the two-thirds super majority needed to achieve his long-held goal of revising the post-war pacifist constitution to clarify the military s role .
he said his goal was for his coalition to retain a majority in the chamber .
a weekend survey by the nikkei business daily showed 44 percent of voters planned to vote for abe s liberal democratic party ( ldp ) versus 8 percent for the main opposition democratic party and another 8 percent for a new party launched by popular tokyo governor yuriko koike .
the nikkei poll was more positive for abe s prospects than a kyodo news agency survey that showed his ldp garnering 27.7 percent support , with 42.2 percent undecided .
abe s image as a strong leader has bolstered his ratings amid the north korea crisis and overshadowed opposition criticism of the premier for suspected cronyism scandals that eroded his support earlier this year .
given the results seen in other major developed countries , however , some political analysts are not ruling out the unexpected .
abe s big gamble could yield a big surprise , veteran independent political analyst minoru morita said .
the prime minister had been expected to face a grilling over the cronyism scandals during a session of parliament from thursday and opposition party officials saw the move as a ploy to avoid difficult questions .
abe on monday asked his cabinet to compile a 2 trillion yen ( $ 18 billion ) economic package by year-end to focus on child care , education and encouraging corporate investment .
he told public broadcaster nhk that diverting sales tax revenue would make it impossible to meet the government s target of balancing japan s budget - excluding debt servicing costs and bond sales - by the year beginning april 2020 .
but we are absolutely not lowering the flag of fiscal consolidation , he said .
he said he believed it was necessary to revise the constitution s pacifist article 9 to clarify the military s status but said the wording of a proposed change was up to his party .
the main opposition democratic party is struggling with single-digit ratings and much depends on whether it can cooperate with liberal opposition groups .
on monday , just hours before abe s election announcement , tokyo governor koike said she would lead a new conservative , reform-minded party of hope to offer voters an alternative to the ldp .
our ideal is to proceed free of special interests , koike , a former ldp member , told a news conference .
an ldp internal survey showed seats held by the ldp and its coalition partner komeito could fall to 280 from the 323 they now hold , the nikkei reported on saturday .
reforms adopted last year will cut the number of lower house seats to 465 from 475 .