berlin ( reuters ) - a group of german women s organizations wrote to chancellor angela merkel on monday demanding more support for their goals of equal participation , equal pay and better monitoring of gender policies after the sept. 24 election .
merkel was elected as germany s first female chancellor in 2005 , helped by strong support from women voters , but the leader of the conservative christian democrats ( cdu ) has not made fighting for equal rights a major priority .
women in germany have moderated their demands for long enough and repeatedly accepted compromises .
without notable progress , wrote the 17 groups representing 12.5 million women in professions ranging from medicine to law and engineering .
now , new , binding milestones with clear targets need to be defined and achieved .
opinion polls show that merkel should easily win a fourth term , with women still more likely to vote for the cdu than the spd , and far more likely to support merkel on 60 percent than her spd challenger martin schulz on just 20 percent .
merkel was initially opposed to quotas , but her government has introduced a requirement for women to hold 30 percent of seats on non-executive company boards after it was championed by her junior coalition partners , the center-left social democrats .
beyond that , however , progress at boosting female representation in both business and politics has been slow .
none of germany s top 30 listed companies has a female ceo and women hold only 7 percent of executive positions in the 160 biggest listed firms , up from 6 percent in 2016 .
meanwhile , the percentage of women in the german parliament is expected to fall to 32 percent from a current 36.5 percent after the election due to the likely entry of the male-dominated free democrats and alternative fuer deutschland ( afd ) .
merkel says she wants half her new cabinet to be female , compared to seven out of 16 posts now , although that will depend on which party she shares power with .
she has also warned firms they face tougher regulation if they do not promote more women .
the women s groups said they welcomed merkel s desire for an equal cabinet and for more women in business , but said more was needed to improve participation and equal pay .
the example of the mandatory gender quota for supervisory boards of large companies shows that legal targets are needed to speed up the necessary processes of change and a switch in role models in business and society , the letter to merkel said .