sydney ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull on tuesday named a new attorney general and promoted two junior lawmakers from rural queensland state to his cabinet in a reshuffle he hopes will bolster his flagging popularity .
australian leaders often revamp cabinets before the start of a new year but for center-right turnbull the move is an attempt to salvage his leadership , ravaged by dismal opinion polls .
last month , turnbull s ruling liberal-national coalition made its worst showing in a queensland election in more than a decade , when it won 34 percent of the vote as pauline hanson s populist one nation clawed into its conservative base .
a large number of marginal seats in the country s third most populous state of queensland often give its voters a crucial say in deciding federal elections .
the reshuffle was sparked by the resignation of attorney general george brandis from the senate .
turnbull said he would ask brandis to be the country s next high commissioner , or ambassador , to the united kingdom .
turnbull gave cabinet positions to queenslanders john mcveigh and david littleproud , who both took office 18 months ago .
he dropped infrastructure minister darren chester , from the urban state of victoria , giving the portfolio to deputy prime minister barnaby joyce , the leader of the nationals , which features prominently in queensland .
it s a ministry that showcases the depth of the liberal and national team , with well-earned promotions for talented individuals , a number of young and upcoming mps bringing new skills and energy to the frontbench , turnbull told reporters in sydney .
asked why he removed chester , whose duties included running the australian part of the fruitless search for missing malaysia airlines flight mh370 , turnbull said his cabinet had to take into account matters of geography , but did not elaborate .
the pitch to voters in the northeastern state of queensland was obvious , said stewart jackson , a specialist in australian politics at the university of sydney .
everybody s been spooked by one nation , jackson said .
the emphasis will shift back towards queensland where the national party was traditionally strong .
the overhaul also brings youth into a government that has narrowly retained its razor-thin majority in parliament after a constitutional crisis triggered a series of by-elections .
the two promoted queenslanders , littleproud and mcveigh , are 41 and 52 respectively .
the new attorney general , social services minister christian porter , from the iron ore-rich state of western australia , is 47 .
employment minister michaelia cash , who takes the expanded title of minister for jobs and innovation , and nationals member bridget mckenzie , who joins cabinet as minister for sport , rural health and regional communications , are also 47 .
turnbull gave no reason for the departure of brandis after 17 years , but called him a stalwart who had backed tougher national security laws and the legalization of same-sex marriage , a measure parliament passed this month .
in 2015 , when turnbull unseated then prime minister tony abbott , he said the move was necessary because abbott s government had lost 30 opinion polls in a row .
under turnbull , the government has lost 25 opinion polls in a row .
many commentators say that if the figure reaches 30 , which could happen as soon as march , turnbull s party may consider removing him .