nothing like a good dose of sheriff clarke to expose the lies of the left after showing a clip of the confrontation between hillary clinton and some black lives matter representatives in which things became tense and clinton was clearly uncomfortable , sheriff david clarke is asked to weigh in on what is happening.he leads off by saying , hillary meet frankenstein , they created this monster and now they realize that if you can not continue to feed it the beast the beast will turn on you and eat you and that s what s going on here .
he said that he refers to the group as black lies matter because they are perpetuating lies built upon a foundation of lies , the bastard child of the original lie of the hands up don t shoot narrative built upon the justified self-defense shooting of hood rat michael brown.sheriff clarke describes the group as a conglomeration of misfits , noting their ranks include retreads and operatives from the occupy movement , organized labor , criminals , black racialists , cop haters and anarchists .
he fails to include their funding source , billionaire america-hater george soros .
any marxist associated or otherwise subversive movement in this nation invariably has the stain of soros visible just below the surface.sheriff clarke says , no longer in the united states , and i think that i m living proof of that , no longer can blacks as a whole claim victim status except for one situation .
they are victims to the democrat party in the united states of america and what modern liberalism has done to the black family .
the speak to the absurdity of democrat candidate for president martin o malley caving to black lives matter pressure to walk back a statement that all lives matter.clarke says it s an example of the monster that they ve created that they can not feed anymore .
they re not in control of this movement .
this was created to mobilize the black vote for the 2016 election .
the problem is we ve got a long way to go and there s only so long that you can keep that sort of negative movement going before you lose control of it .
i though o malley , his reaction after that was pathetic .
they point to how well the cowering to the black thugs has demonstrated the lack of character on the part of both o malley and barry surrender the mic sanders and their unfitness for the world leadership stage.they also note the hypocrisy of the faux-movement in that only the black lives which they can use to foment unrest matter .
the black on black violence is never mentioned and it doesn t matter because it carries with it no political capital .
via : rick wells