buenos aires ( reuters ) - julio de vido , an ex-minister in former argentine president cristina fernandez s government , was jailed after turning himself in to authorities on wednesday , marking an anti-corruption milestone in a country known for impunity .
congress voted to strip former planning minister and current lawmaker de vido of his parliamentary immunity earlier in the day , and he later appeared at a federal judge s chambers in buenos aires where he was taken into custody .
he faces charges in two separate corruption cases .
argentina s congress rarely removes lawmakers immunity and de vido is the most powerful official from the 2007-2015 fernandez era to be jailed .
local television showed police escorting de vido from the chamber but covered his face with riot shields .
he was then driven to ezeiza jail outside the capital city , where he will be detained indefinitely .
this is a scandal .
in a state of law sentences are applied after a conviction , de vido s lawyer maximiliano rusconi told local television .
corruption allegations dogged fernandez s government and isolated her politically ahead of a senate race on oct. 22 .
de vido is under investigation in a case involving the patagonian coal mine rio turbio .
prosecutors accuse him of embezzling state funds allocated for the mine .
he has denied any wrongdoing .
a three-judge panel ordered de vido s arrest last week , saying he should be jailed to prevent him fleeing or interfering with the case .
fernandez won a senate seat for the province of buenos aires under argentina s list system on sunday , but finished second , lessening her chances of staging a comeback for the presidency in 2019 .
de vido was in charge of running energy infrastructure projects under fernandez , a left-leaning populist who was succeeded by business-friendly president mauricio macri in late 2015 .
fernandez , the subject of corruption investigations herself , has acknowledged there was likely corruption during her government but denies personal involvement .