this latest wikileaks email is evidence of more than just smoke where hillary s concerned it places her in the middle of the fire .
will the fbi finally take the appropriate actions and give hillary the same treatment every other american would receive , if they were caught in a major cover-up and the destruction of evidence while under subpoena ?
with her hacker-friendly private email servers that appear to have been penetrated by foreign intelligence agencies , clinton is now in the company of aaron burr , bradley manning , and edward snowden all of whom betrayed the public trust .
the failure to hold her accountable is yet more proof that the clintons are above the law .
no matter what they do the legal system always treats them with kid gloves .
frontpagein today s , 25th , wikileaks release of hacked podesta emails , one of the notable highlights is a march 2 , 2015 exchange between john podesta and clinton aide cheryl mills in which the clinton campaign chair says on another matter .and not to sound like lanny , but we are going to have to dump all those emails .
the email , which may indicate intent , was sent just days before the nyt story revealing the existence of hillary s email server , and hillary s press conference addressing what was at the time , the stunning revelation that she had a personal email account , and server , in her home.mills response : think you just got your new nick name .
it is unclear which lanny is referred to : the infamous former doj staffer lanny breuer who quit in january 2013 after telling frontline that some banks are too big to fail , or , more likely lanny davis , special counsel to president bill clinton , and spokesperson for the president and the white house on matters concerning campaign-finance investigations and other legal issues.lanny davis is the former special counsel for the clinton white house and one of clinton s most dogged public defenders .
he also referred to the former presidential candidate carly fiorina as nasty .
( so trump apparently doesn t have the market on that word . )
when clinton s team turned down an april invite from fox news sunday to defend her from allegations in peter schweitzer s book clinton cash , davis stepped up to the plate , unflinching in his devoted defense of his old boss and his old boss s wife .
he also took a co-starring role in the emails from her private server that the state department has released , regularly offering obsequious praise and imploring her for favors.it is also unclear for now which emails podesta is referring to in the thread , but podesta adds : better to do so sooner than later .
we can hope that a subsequent response , yet to be leaked by wikileaks , will provide more color.this is the first time that particular exchange has emerged among the podesta emails.the fact that mrs. clinton destroyed email evidence evidence subject to a congressional subpoena , no less is already evidence in itself that she obstructed justice through spoliation of evidence .
spoliation means you can take as evidence the fact that evidence has been destroyed .
courts are entitled to draw spoliation inferences and convict an accused person on that basis alone.and in a separate email sent out just days later by clinton campaign communications director , jennifer palmieri , we get yet another confirmation that the president actively mislead the public when he said he didn t know hillary was using a private email address : suggest philippe talk to josh or eric .
they know potus and hrc emailed .
josh has been asked about that .
standard practice is not to confirm anything about his email , so his answer to press was that he would not comment/confirm .
i recollect that josh was also asked if potus ever noticed her personal email account and he said something like potus likely had better things to do than focus on his cabinet s email addresses.perhaps while the doj/fbi is taking a second look into huma abedin s emails , it can also take a repeat look at some of these , especially the ones involving potus.via zero hedge