jerusalem/riyadh ( reuters ) - an israeli cabinet minister said on sunday that israel has had covert contacts with saudi arabia amid common concerns over iran , a first disclosure by a senior official from either country of long-rumoured secret dealings .
the saudi government had no immediate response to israeli energy minister yuval steinitz s remarks .
a spokesman for israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu also did not respond immediately to a request to comment .
both saudi arabia and israel view iran as a main threat to the middle east and increased tension between tehran and riyadh has fuelled speculation that shared interests may push saudi arabia and israel to work together .
saudi arabia maintains that any relations with israel hinge on israeli withdrawal from arab lands captured in the 1967 middle east war , territory palestinians seek for a future state .
u.s. president donald trump s peace envoys , seeking an israeli-palestinian agreement with regional support , have visited saudi arabia several times since he took office .
in an interview on army radio , steinitz , a member of netanyahu s security cabinet , did not characterise the contacts or give details when asked why israel was hiding its ties with saudi arabia .
he replied : we have ties that are indeed partly covert with many muslim and arab countries , and usually ( we are ) the party that is not ashamed .
it s the other side that is interested in keeping the ties quiet .
with us , usually , there is no problem , but we respect the other side s wish , when ties are developing , whether it s with saudi arabia or with other arab countries or other muslim countries , and there is much more ... ( but ) we keep it secret .
in an interview with reuters on thursday , saudi foreign minister adel jubeir , asked about reports of cooperation with israel , cited a saudi peace initiative , first adopted in 2002 by the arab league , as key to forging any relationship .
we have always said that if the israeli-palestinian conflict is resolved on the basis of the arab peace initiative that israel would have enjoyed normal relations , economic , political , diplomatic relations with all of the arab countries , and so until that happens , we don t have relations with israel , he said .
that plan makes those relations contingent on a full withdrawal by israel from territory it captured in the 1967 middle east war , including east jerusalem .
netanyahu has expressed tentative support for parts of the initiative , but there are many caveats on the israeli side .
hussein ibish , senior resident scholar at the arab gulf states institute in washington , said steinitz s remarks won t surprise anyone who s been paying attention to the budding courtship between israel and saudi arabia , which is being especially pushed by the israeli side .
last week , the israeli military chief , lieutenant general gadi eizenkot , told an arabic language online newspaper that israel was ready to share intelligence information with saudi arabia , saying their countries had a common interest in standing up to iran .
saudi arabia has ratcheted up pressure on iran , accusing tehran of trying to expand its influence in arab countries , often through proxies including the lebanese shi ite hezbollah group .
ibish said that given the mutual threat perceptions shared by israel and gulf arab countries , it is unlikely that covert ties aren t developing .
but he said israeli officials have tended to exaggerate such interactions in a bid to drive down the price they may have to pay , especially on palestinian issues , to expand strategic relations and ties with arab countries .
in public remarks in september , netanyahu pointed to covert relationships with arab states , saying , without mentioning any by name , that cooperation exists in various ways and different levels .
also in september , israel radio reported that saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman had secretly met officials in israel that month , drawing an official denial from riyadh .
last month , saudi former intelligence chief prince turki bin faisal shared a stage with ex-israeli mossad spy agency director efraim halevy at a debate on iran in a new york synagogue .
in 2016 , former saudi general anwar eshki visited israel , where he met israeli legislators , to promote - as he has at various academic forums - the saudi peace initiative .
( this version of the story corrects saudi foreign minister s first name in paragraph 9 to adel , not abdel )