the wisconsin election commission posts recount data on a spreadsheet every day .
the latest spreadsheet totals as of 1:30 p.m. cst on december 3 show that the recount isn t changing much , although a smattering of errors have been found throughout the state .
the candidates each lost and gained a smattering of votes in towns , cities , and villages that are reporting , so any losses were basically cancelled out.the election commission doesn t tally the returns , but , rather , just posts a raw spreadsheet of numbers .
heavy went through the spreadsheet and tallied the lost and gained votes for trump and clinton for each county so far , and then subtracted the two totals for a net gain or loss for day 2.here s what the returns show so far : day 2 totals clinton gained 89 votes but lost 86 for a net gain of 3 votes .
trump gained 98 votes but lost 92 for a net gain of 6 votes.overallclinton gained 3 votes trump gained 6 votes net trump gain of 3 votes on day 2trump won wisconsin by more than 22,000 votes.that means that trump inched ahead by a grand total of 3 votes in a recount expected to cost more than $ 3.5 million .
green party nominee jill stein raised more than $ 6 million to fund recounts in wisconsin , michigan and pennsylvania .
the latter two recounts are now bogged down in legal issues and challenges .
on december 3 , stein dropped her request for a pennsylvania recount , saying she couldn t afford the $ 1 million required , even though she raised $ 7 million overall for recounts .
clinton would have needed all three states wisconsin , pennsylvania , and michigan to flip in order to take the white house back from trump , an exceedingly tall order.in wisconsin , trump supporters sued to stop the recount , alleging it was not being conducted uniformly ( some counties use paper ballots and others use machines ) .
a judge said the recount could continue at least until a december 9 hearing .
the wisconsin recount is the first in the 2016 presidential election .
heavy