beijing ( reuters ) - chinese authorities have collected dna and other biometric data from the whole population of the volatile western region of xinjiang , human right watch said on wednesday , denouncing the campaign as a gross violation of international norms .
hundreds of people have been killed in xinjiang in the past few years in violence between uighurs , a mostly muslim people , and ethnic majority han chinese , which beijing blames on islamist militants .
the unrest has fueled a sweeping security crackdown there , including mass rallies by armed police , tough measures that rights advocates say restrict religious and cultural expression , and widespread surveillance .
police are responsible for collecting pictures , fingerprints , iris scans and household registration information , while health authorities should collect dna samples and blood type information as part of a physicals for all program , the new york-based group said in a statement , citing government a document .
the mandatory databanking of a whole population s biodata , including dna , is a gross violation of international human rights norms , and it s even more disturbing if it is done surreptitiously , under the guise of a free health care program , human rights watch s china director sophie richardson said .
according to the xinjiang-wide plan posted online by the aksu city government in july , main goals for the campaign include collecting the biometric data for all people between the age of 12 and 65 , and verifying the region s population for a database .
blood type information should be sent to the county-level police bureaus , and dna blood cards should be sent to the county police bureaus for inspection , the plan said .
data for priority individuals should be collected regardless of age , it said , using a term the government has adopted to refer to people deemed a security risk .
government workers must earnestly safeguard the peoples legal rights , plan said , but it made no mention of a need to inform people fully about the campaign or of any option for people to decline to take part .
xinjiang officials could not be reached for comment .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang , asked about the report by human rights watch , accused the group of making untrue statements .
he told a regular news briefing in beijing the general situation in the region was good .
human rights watch cited an unidentified xinjiang resident saying he feared being labelled with political disloyalty if he did not participate , and that he had not received any results from the health checks .
state media , reporting on the campaign checks , have said participation was voluntary .
the official xinhua news agency in november cited health authorities as saying 18.8 million people in the region had received such physicals in 2017 for a 100 percent coverage rate .