for all the hate democrats openly express for fox news , it s good to know that hillary surrogates like lanny davis can rely on good trump-hater megyn kelly to prop up crooked hillary the latest wikileaks dump includes an email from lanny davis tries to convince catholic hater jennifer palmeiri that it would be a good idea for megyn kelly to interview hillary , giving her a chance to explain the mistake she made withe her private email server .
he even offers to arrange a friendly interview for hillary with megyn .
here is the text from the email : dear jen , i know what i m about to propose is very risky and will be instinctively viewed negatively on the first reaction .
but because of the high advantages that i see , perfectly aware of the risks , i think this proposal should be considered.i propose that the secretary be on the megyn kelly file show for at least 30 minutes .
i believe i can reduce the risks , since i know megyn and roger ailes very well , by ensuring that the secretary will have an opportunity to answer tough questions on emails and other issues without interruption .
in fact , i believe it is in the interest of secretary clinton as well as fox for the questions to be tough , something we should not fear as long as she has an opportunity to answer .
i know she will do well with adequate preparation , and especially after yesterday s excellent statement taking full responsibility for mixing personal an official business on a single email device.i still believe the issue of the wiping out of the private server still needs to be dealt with e.g. , simply stating that was done primarily to protect personal privacy on personal emails but she made the mistake of mixing personal with official on the server because she was using a single device , and she should have been more transparent shortly after she left office .
this interview has the potential to be a ratings and media bonanza .
i have confidence she would hit a political home run and have a massive audience to deliver her message without a filter .
of course there is a risk that megan will try to show how tough she can be , even tougher than on trump .
i am assuming the worst case on that risk .
but if we have a guarantee , which i believe we will get , that she will have an uninterrupted chance to respond to every question , and we have time to prepare , i think this could be a major plus and even a game changer in the various negative narratives about the secretary being largely inaccessible and sometimes testy with the media.here is a screen shot of the original email :