washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump ’ s reelection campaign raised more than $ 10.1 million in the third quarter of 2017 and spent $ 4 million , including $ 1.1 million on legal fees .
trump ’ s campaign paid $ 237,924 to lawyer alan futerfas , who is representing donald trump jr. in matters related to the campaign ’ s involvement with russian interference in the u.s. election .
that payment came in addition to $ 50,000 paid the previous quarter to the same lawyer .
futerfas has not responded to repeated requests for comment about the payment .
the campaign also paid $ 30,000 to williams and jensen , the law firm where karina lynch , who is also representing trump jr. , works .
lynch did not respond to request for comment about the payment .
during the third quarter , trump ’ s campaign paid more than $ 25,000 to his own company for “ legal consulting , ” as well as $ 800,000 to law firm jones day , which provides routine legal assistance to the campaign .
trump filed for re-election the day he took office - allowing his campaign to continue to raise and spend money while he is in office .
traditionally , presidents have waited two years to officially file for reelection , providing no historic comparisons to his level of fundraising and spending .
his campaign has raised more than $ 36 million since january .
he has used that money to keep a small campaign staff , to fund campaign rallies and to pay legal fees associated with some of the investigations into his 2016 campaign .
trump ’ s campaign spent about $ 4 million in that same time period .
in the second quarter of 2017 , trump ’ s re-election campaign raised about $ 8 million and spent $ 4.4 million .
of the donations , $ 1.2 million consisted of unitemized contributions , meaning money from donors who gave less than $ 200 .
trump frequently touts the level of unitemized donations as proof that voters still support his campaign .
he raised about $ 1.9 million in unitemized contributions during the previous quarter .