( reuters ) - democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton said on wednesday the attack in brussels that killed more than 30 people is the “ latest brutal reminder ” that more must be done to defeat islamic state militants , including by european union member countries .
in an address at stanford university in california , clinton said the united states and europe should take a “ harder look ” at protocols at airports and other “ soft sites ” that are outside security perimeters .
clinton also said “ there is much we can do to support our european partners ” but “ there is also more they can do to share the burden with us. ” clinton said she would like to see more european countries investing in defense and security in the way germany has during the obama administration .
“ the most urgent task is stopping the flow of foreign fighters to and from the middle east ” who are citizens of france , germany , belgium and the united kingdom with european passports that make it easier for them to cross into syria and return radicalized , clinton said .
clinton said that many european nations do not currently alert their neighbors when they turn away a “ suspected jihadist ” at their border or when a citizen ’ s passport is stolen .
european union countries also need to share traveler information more readily , clinton said .
“ it ’ s actually easier for the united states to get flight manifests from eu nations than it is for eu nations to get them from their own neighbors , thanks to an agreement that the united states negotiated when i was secretary of state , ” clinton said .
additional steps that could be taken in europe are the creation of a “ new , unified , european border and coast guard ” to strengthen the external borders of a continent that is under “ unprecedented pressure from refugees and migrants , ” clinton said .
clinton also praised past partnerships between the united states and europe , calling the nato alliance between north american and european countries one of the best investments that america has made .
republican front-runner donald trump has in recent days said that the united states should rethink its involvement in the decades-old alliance .
clinton also took aim at trump , along with presidential rival u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , when she slammed “ offensive , inflammatory rhetoric that demonizes all muslims , ” including those who could be partners in the fight against terrorism .