phnom penh ( reuters ) - the united states on wednesday opened a $ 2 million tender to help clear unexploded bombs in cambodia weeks after the government s mine clearance agency said its u.s. funding had been stopped .
relations between cambodia and the united states have spiraled downwards this year with the government accusing americans of involvement in a plan by detained opposition leader kem sokha to bring down prime minister hun sen. washington has rejected the accusations as baseless .
last week , it said it was cutting aid for next year s election and would take further steps after the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) was dissolved by the supreme court at the government s request .
the u.s. embassy said it was accepting applications for a $ 2 million one-year grant to survey and clear unexploded ordnance in eastern cambodia , which suffered heavy u.s. bombing during the war in neighboring vietnam .
the united states has supported humanitarian demining in cambodia for over 20 years and is committed to addressing our war-time legacy , ambassador william heidt said in a statement .
we are looking for the best national and international experts .
the size of the contract matches the amount which the government s cambodian mine action centre said earlier this month had been cut from funding it received from the united states through norwegian people s aid .
we welcome the commitment in taking part in addressing the legacy of the war , said huy vannak , undersecretary of state at the interior ministry .
china , now cambodia s closest ally , was quick to step in with an offer of help for demining soon afterwards .
china is cambodia s biggest donor and investor and has played an ever more prominent role as western countries have criticized a crackdown on the opposition , civil society groups and media ahead of next year s election .
although it has not taken action , the european union pointed out last week that cambodia s access to duty free access vital to its garment industry depended on respect for human rights .
hun sen told garment workers on wednesday that they would be the ones to suffer - not him - if the access was withdrawn .
european union countries accounted for about 40 percent of cambodia s exports in 2016 .
most of that was clothing .
you must remember clearly that if there is any cut of buying orders , it s all the fault of a group of people of the opposition party , hun sen told garment workers in phnom penh .
hun sen won t die but workers , you will die , he said .
the prime minister accused exiled opposition leaders of trying to get sanctions imposed .
they have so far said they would not call for measures to curb trade because of the impact it could have on the livelihoods of an estimated 700,000 garment workers .
cambodia s economy has proved largely immune to political turbulence .
the world bank said on wednesday it expected the economy to grow 6.9 percent next year , compared with a projected 6.8 percent pace in 2017 , despite risks including uncertainty over the election .