what a great place to take the whole family ! welcome to the liberal utopia of germany things are so bad authorities are posting no defecating in the shower signs.via instapundit : the migrants have also tried to storm them women s locker room .
der bild reported ( translated ) via vlad tepes : outrageous accusations coming from the zwickau townhall : according to b der gmbh , ( baths inc. ) refugees are masturbating and defecating into the water .
and they also harass women in the sauna and have tried to storm the women s changing rooms.all this and more is written in a report from january 19th .
rainer kallwait , ordinance department leader for b der gmbh , wrote the report for the safety related services of b der gmbh .
the city administration has confirmed the authenticity of the report.kallweit writes of a memo from johannisbad swimming pool .
in it it says , among other things : one asylum seeker masturbated in the whirlpool and ejaculated into the water .
it is recorded on surveillance camera .
and , the swimming pool supervisor threw him out .
the asylum seeker came back with comrades to get his cell phone .
together the visitors , hooting and jeering , took a selfie in the whirlpool .
the day before 8 foreign men were in the sauma .
the local people felt harassed .
when women are in the sauna , asylum seekers are now told that the sauna is closed .
in general refugees only have free access to the swimming pool .
they would have to pay for the use of the sauna .
but they won t do that , according to b der gmbh : when they were prompted to pay up at the register , they turned around , laughed and left .
similar can be read in a memo of gl ck-auf-schwimmhalle , halle , in kallwait s report .
a group of youths , single men and children with guardians visited said pool in halle on january 9th .
since none of them could swim , they used the kids pool .
the users contaminated the pool by way of emptying their intestines .
local guests immediately left the pool .
here s another sign telling migrants to not grab women s butts at the pool.via : gateway pundit