( reuters ) - michigan governor rick snyder on wednesday appointed a group of government officials , health and other experts to implement long-term fixes for flint ’ s lead-contaminated water system , which has become a national scandal .
the 17-member committee would recommend ways to help people exposed to lead , study flint ’ s water infrastructure and determine possible upgrades .
the members includes flint mayor karen weaver and county and state officials .
snyder , a republican , also said he wanted the medicaid social health care program to be expanded to cover all flint children .
in an interview airing on cnn wednesday evening , snyder said that officials expect a higher tally of children affected than blood tests have shown so far .
“ there could be many more , ” snyder said .
“ and we ’ re assuming that. ” democrats in the u.s. senate were preparing to unveil legislation as early as thursday aimed at aiding flint , but would not provide details .
it could be debated on the senate floor next week as part of an unrelated energy bill , aides said .
activists in flint plan to present petitions with almost 20,000 signatures to weaver and snyder on thursday calling for a moratorium on water bills .
snyder ’ s team includes two people who helped focus attention on the water crisis - flint pediatrician dr. mona hanna-attisha and marc edwards , a civil engineering professor at virginia tech who would oversee all state and federal water testing .
snyder is asking for $ 3 million in state funds for water bills .
“ flint residents should not have to pay for water they did not and are not using , ” weaver said .
also on wednesday , a coalition of flint residents and national groups filed a lawsuit asking a detroit federal court to compel city and state officials to replace all lead water pipes promptly and at no cost to residents .
the national resources defense council , the american civil liberties union of michigan and flint residents asked for relief for any medical harm suffered .
lead is a neurotoxin that can damage the brain and cause other health problems .
snyder has repeatedly apologized for the delay in addressing flint ’ s problems , which have led some critics to call for his censure or arrest .
residents of the city of 100,000 people had complained for months about elevated readings of lead in drinking water and the blood of some children .
michigan attorney general bill schuette named a special prosecutor to look into possible crimes in the crisis .