amman ( reuters ) - syrian opposition groups are resisting jordanian pressure to hand control of a border crossing back to the syrian government , a step that would be a major boost for president bashar al-assad and undermine rebel groups in southwestern syria .
talks over reopening the nasib crossing have gathered pace since a russian-u.s. brokered ceasefire in july brought relative calm to southern syria , the first peacekeeping effort in the war by u.s. president donald trump s administration .
jordan , which hopes to revive a once flourishing trade route and encourage syrian refugees to return , has plenty of leverage over the rebels : many of the opposition groups in southern syria depend on logistical support from the staunch u.s. ally .
but rebel groups which seized control of the crossing in 2015 have so far resisted proposals for a return of syrian government authority to nasib , even in the form of civilian officials with no syrian army presence .
the possibility of the crossing being reopened underlines just how far the scales have tipped in favor of assad , who is steadily winning back territory with russian and iranian help , forcing neighboring states to rethink their policies .
the presence of any regime employee is like restoring legitimacy to a worn-out regime against which the syrian people rose up , said adham al karad , a free syrian army ( fsa ) rebel commander who led battles in deraa city against the army .
jordan has trodden a careful path during the six-year long war , maintaining diplomatic ties with damascus even as it became a hub for a u.s.-led program that funneled aid to vetted syrian rebels .
trump recently decided to shut down that program .
before the syrian conflict erupted in 2011 , nasib served as a major transit route for hundreds of trucks a day transporting goods between turkey and the gulf in multi-billion dollar annual trade .
its closure has also had a knock-on effect for other economies in the region , including lebanon s. jordan has put forward proposals by which rebels would secure the road to nasib , 100 km ( 60 miles ) from the capital , while a civil administration from damascus would run the crossing , according to syrian opposition officials .
rebels would receive a portion of the customs fees as part of the deal .
the proposals were discussed during a meeting between the jordanian government and opposition-run local councils and rebels from southern syria in amman at the end of last month .
the situation of the crossing is delicate and sensitive and until now we have not responded ( to amman s demands ) , ali salkhadi , the governor of opposition-run deraa province , told a meeting of local figures on sunday , footage of which was posted on youtube .
jordan told the opposition delegation that it was obliged to deal with a recognized state in order to open the crossing and to allow trucks to proceed to third countries , he said .
it also threatened the opposition delegation it could open another land crossing into syrian government-controlled sweida province , east of nasib , if rebels fail to reach a deal .
if they open sweida crossing they would close the other humanitarian crossings ... this is what they are saying , salkhadi said in the meeting .
syrian government officials could not be reached for comment .
a jordanian government official contacted by reuters declined to comment .
though rebels stand to profit if the crossing were opened , they also risk losing local support if seen to make such a big concession to damascus .
they want long-standing demands , including a detainee release , addressed before talks on nasib .
we will not watch with our hands tied , we won t allow this and will work to stop all the efforts to hand over critical areas to the regime and to confiscate them from the rebels and impose a fait accompli on us , said abu jasem al hariri , a rebel commander in southern syria .
jordan last month succeeded in pressuring two western-backed rebel groups operating in southeastern syria near the jordanian border , an order that resulted in them abandoning their territory to advancing syrian government forces .
but while amman has recently sought to mend fences with damascus , a full restoration of ties seems a distant prospect as jordan remains deeply concerned over expanding iranian influence in syria .
the syrian army and allied militia are steadily seizing more and more of the jordanian frontier from insurgents .
but while the government is gaining ground at the jordanian border , key crossings to turkey and iraq remain outside its control .