washington ( reuters ) - republican donald trump pulled ahead of democratic presidential rival hillary clinton in florida and pennsylvania in a quinnipiac poll released on wednesday that included responses after the fbi released its findings on clinton ’ s email use .
clinton lost ground on honesty and moral standards in the poll that showed tight races in florida , pennsylvania and ohio , all swing states that could go to either party in november ’ s presidential election .
the quinnipiac poll , taken from june 30 to july 11 , showed trump competitive in the three states a week before the start of the republican national convention in cleveland that will formally nominate him as the party ’ s presidential candidate for the nov. 8 election .
peter a .
brown , assistant director of the poll , said there was no definite link between clinton ’ s drop in florida from quinnipiac ’ s june 21 survey and the fbi ’ s findings that she was careless in her handling of government emails while u.s. secretary of state .
but he said clinton lost ground to trump on questions that measure moral standards and honesty .
clinton lost an 8-point lead in florida , where trump won 42 percent to clinton ’ s 39 percent , according to the quinnipiac poll .
in ohio , the poll showed the candidates tied at 41 percent .
in pennsylvania , the quinnipiac poll showed trump with 43 percent to clinton ’ s 41 percent .
a nbc news/wall street journal/marist poll released this week showed a very different result in pennsylvania , with clinton leading trump 45 to 36 percent .
the july 5-10 poll included 829 registered voters and has a margin of error of 3 percentage points .
nationally , clinton leads trump by 13 percentage points , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday .
the online poll showed that 46 percent of likely voters support clinton while 33 percent support trump .
the july 8-12 included 1,146 likely voters and has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .
fbi director james comey said last week clinton was “ extremely careless ” in the handling of classified information but the investigation found no evidence she or her colleagues intended to violate laws .
clinton , a former u.s. senator and first lady , has faced heavy criticism from republicans for her use of private email servers for government business while she led the state department from 2009 to 2013 .
the quinnipiac poll was conducted by telephone with people who identified as registered voters .
it included 1,015 people in florida , 955 people in ohio and 982 people in pennsylvania .
the margin of error was around three percentage points in all three states .