france s armed police officers were at least prepared to handle the terror attack after shooting the terrorist , thereby preventing any further acts of terror by what police believe to be a lone wolf incident .
many questioned the how the uk can effectively deal with terrorism when their law enforcement officers are unarmed , like in the most recent attack in london where unarmed police officers were seen running away from the scene of the crime , and citizens were forced to use chairs to protect themselves from terrorists with knives a man with a hammer bashed a police officer in the head outside notre dame cathedral in paris tuesday , in an attack that investigators called an act of terror.the wounded officer fired twice at the hammer-wielding man in the square in front of the cathedral , french police told fox news .
the attacker was hospitalized ; the specific conditions of both men were unclear.update : french minister g rard collomb : notre dame cathedral attacker said this is for syria .
pic.twitter.com/cdeod3csek josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 6 , 2017 police can be seen here rushing to terror scene : police rush to paris s notre-dame cathedral following reports man attempted to attack officer with a hammer .
pic.twitter.com/vhjdrrmpdg josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 6 , 2017visitors to the famous notre dame cathedral are trapped inside until police can clear the scene : photo of visitors locked inside notre-dame cathedral in paris following reports man attempted to attack officer with a hammer .
pic.twitter.com/3gnpk2sn6k josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 6 , 2017police asking everyone to raise their hands in the church pic.twitter.com/y5kkywqdwk matthew currieholmes ( @ mch2k ) june 6 , 2017the french interior minister said the suspect had been threatening several policemen and passersby at the time.paris has been under high security after a string of islamic extremist attacks in recent years .
security message : ongoing security incident at notre dame cathedral u.s. citizens should avoid the area & follow advice of authorities u.s. embassy france ( @ usembassyfrance ) june 6 , 2017the french u.s. embassy alerted american citizens to avoid the area and follow advice of authorities following the incident.on social media , people reported that they were trapped in the cathedral for an incident outside .
one person in the cathedral said officers instructed them to raise their hands .
later in the day , they said officers were starting to let them out .
fox news