prague ( reuters ) - support for billionaire andrej babis s ano party dipped ahead of a czech election on oct. 20-21 , but the party maintained a double-digit lead over its closest rival and remained favorite to lead the next government , an opinion poll showed on monday .
babis , the second richest czech , has been harvesting disillusion of many voters in the central european eu member country with corruption in the political class , inefficient government and slow catch-up in incomes with the richer western europe .
the final poll by the median agency before a black-out starting on tuesday showed eight parties winning seats , including a strengthening far-right , anti-eu formation .
support for ano dipped to 25 percent in the survey conducted on sept 26-oct 14 , down from 27 percent in september .
ano has maintained it image as a protest party despite serving in the outgoing cabinet as partner to the centre-left social democrats of prime minister bohuslav sobotka .
babis s image suffered from police charges earlier this month of fraud in tapping european union subsidy , a small project among many by the chemicals , food and media businessman worth $ 4 billion according to forbes magazine .
he denies any wrongdoing .
a slovak court also annulled last thursday rulings clearing babis of cooperating with former communist secret police in then totalitarian czechoslovakia .
he denies being an agent .
the poll showed ano will need partners to form a parliamentary majority .
a relatively weak showing by ano would embolden potential partners demanding that babis personally stays out of the cabinet due to the police charges .
babis served as finance minister from 2014 until may this year , presiding over a drive to raise tax collection and a fiscal surplus last year .
he opposes deeper eu integration and adopting the euro .
he also opposes accepting any refugees .
rivals say he poses a threat to democracy due to his authoritarian style , desire to simplify decision making , and conflicts of interest as businessman whose firms compete for state contracts and receive subsidies .
babis moved his firm agrofert to a trust fund earlier this year and denies any abuse of his position .
the social democrats who have not ruled out a new coalition with ano polled second with 12.5 percent , down 1 percentage point , followed by the far-left communists with 10.5 percent .
the rise of ano and other protest groups show a shift from traditional parties even as the country enjoys fast economic growth and the lowest unemployment in the eu .
the social democrats lost about 40 percent of voters and the centre-right top 09 party polled 6 percent , half of its score in the previous election .
the far-right , anti-eu spd party jumped to 9.5 percent , tapping into anti-immigration sentiment in a country that saw almost none of the 2015 immigration wave into europe .
the pirate party , a local offshoot of the international pirate movement which focuses on government transparency and an electronic agenda polled 8.5 percent , giving it chances of entering parliament for the first time .