tokyo - tokyo governor yuriko koike has made no secret of her desire to be japan s first female prime minister - she even named her pet terrier sori , japanese for premier .
but koike , 65 , whose fledgling party of hope poses a growing threat to prime minister shinzo abe s ruling bloc in an election this month , faces a tough choice : run now for a seat in parliament to become eligible for the top job , or wait and bet her party positions itself to win the next national poll .
abe called the oct. 22 poll in hopes his liberal democratic party-led bloc could keep its majority in the lower house , where it now holds a two-thirds super majority , but koike s party has upended forecasts .
if koike resigns as governor little more than a year after defying abe s ldp to run successfully for that post , she would risk a backlash from voters .
waiting might let her best shot at the premiership slip through her fingers .
if she thinks of the nation , it is important that she boldly announce her candidacy , present her ideas about important matters ... and debate policies head on , abe s ally , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga , told reporters on monday .
koike , a media-savvy former ldp member and defense minister , has said she would not resign as governor to run now , especially ahead of the 2020 olympic games , which tokyo will host .
but her carefully phrased remarks have failed to kill speculation that she will run .
candidates must register on oct. 10 , when the campaign officially starts .
koike is certain to be watching opinion polls as she weighs her decision .
a tv asahi survey published on monday showed 72 percent of respondents were negative about her potential candidacy .
a separate nhk poll showed that support for abe dropped seven points to 37 percent .
voters were split on koike s new party , with about 47 percent having hopes for it , versus the same percentage with little or no expectations .
further complicating the outlook , yukio edano , an executive of the failed opposition democratic party - which last week decided to run no candidates of its own and have members run on the party of hope ticket - announced on monday the formation of a new constitutional democratic party of japan with fellow liberals .
it was not essential that koike run this time around , her close ally , masaru wakasa , said on sunday .
if there is a firm prospect of a change in government , party chief koike might run for parliament , but if we can achieve a change in the next , next election , she doesn t have to run now , wakasa said during a debate on nhk .
koike , however , has already once blindsided wakasa , who led efforts to form the new party , by announcing , on the day abe called the snap poll , that she would lead the party of hope herself , not entrust it to allies .
on monday , she told jiji news agency her party aimed to run more than the 233 candidates needed to take a majority in the 465-seat lower house .
if you don t buy a lottery ticket , you can t win , she said .
but she again denied she would seek a seat in parliament now .
i was in national politics for 24 years and i have no intention to go back to a place where you can achieve nothing despite spending so much time , she said .
a former tv announcer who speaks arabic and english and peppers her speeches with foreign words , koike wants to build a pro-reform , conservative party to compete with the ldp , in part by cannibalizing the failed main opposition democratic party and luring smaller parties to her side .
her cool , polished demeanor belies a steeliness beneath .
she can take a punch with a smile and sharpen her knives at the same time , said jesper koll , head of equity fund wisdom tree , who has followed japanese politics for years .
like former prime minister junichiro koizumi , one of her past mentors , koike promises to break free of vested interests , a slogan that resonates with voters looking for an alternative to the ldp - although critics question just how different that alternative would be from abe s ldp .
to differentiate her party from the ldp , koike has adopted popular policies , such as an end to atomic power amid public safety worries after the 2011 fukushima nuclear crisis , and proposes to freeze a planned sales tax hike from 2019 .
but she also backs abe s push to expand the role of the military overseas and his goal of revising the post-war constitution - although recently she has avoided focusing on the divisive issue of amending its pacifist article 9 .
she has also said in the past that japan should consider having nuclear weapons , breaking a taboo in the only country to suffer an atomic attack , and , like abe , has visited the yasukuni shrine for war dead , seen in china and south korea as a symbol of japan s past militarism .
koike entered politics in a small reformist party and migrated through several other groups before joining the ldp and in 2008 became the first woman to run for head of the conservative party .
she came in a distant third .