while the country has a meltdown over hillary clinton s email scandal ( even though she didn t break any federal laws ) , there seems to be a blind eye on an even bigger scandal and yes , it would involve donald trump.mother jones reports that should trump win the presidency , he will potentially face having to owe over $ 100 million to deutsche bank , which has sparred with u.s. regulators for years .
such a conundrum would be the biggest conflict of interest any presidential candidate has ever faced.here are the facts : trump has acquired quite a bit of debt , totaling roughly $ 355 million ( or possibly more ) from various loans from a multitude of lenders .
his ambiguous financial statement lists 16 loans from 11 different creditors .
at least five of these loans are worth $ 50 million or more , and have no been paid back ( at least in full ) .deutsche bank appears to be trump s biggest line of credit , with loans totaling $ 295 million for two projects alone $ 125 million to buy trump national doral golf course , and most recently $ 170 million for his newest project , his hotel on pennsylvania avenue .
with the election a mere five months away , and the hotel slated to open in fall , trump will ( if elected ) waltz into the white house owing a foreign bank more than $ 100 million.that , as richard painter , an attorney who teaches at the university of minnesota puts it , is very troublesome .
for starters , this will mean that as president of the united states , trump will literally be beholden to a foreign bank .
and if it s anything like his ocean city taj mahal , will it ever be paid ?
with bookings for his hotels dropping by a whopping 60 percent , who knows .
as painter told mother jones : they [ former presidents ] had large assets and usually diversified assets .
they weren t in a situation where someone could put pressure on them to do what they want .
whereas having a president who owes a lot of money to banks , particularly when it s on negotiable terms it puts them at the mercy of the banks and the banks are at the mercy of regulators .
in real estate , the prevailing business model is to own a lot but also owe a lot , and that is a potentially very troublesome business model for someone in public office.just because trump is a billionaire doesn t mean he ll pay it all back with full faith .
as mother jones reminds readers : in 2005 , trump borrowed $ 640 million from deutsche bank and several other lenders for the construction of a chicago hotel tower .
when he failed to pay back the money on time in 2008 , the banks , including deutsche bank , demanded he pay up the $ 40 million he had personally guaranteed .
in response , trump sued deutsche bank for $ 3 billion , saying the project s financial troubles were the fault of the economic recession , essentially an act of god , and accusing the bank of undermining the project and his reputation.with no indication of a blind-trust being set up as to avoid a conflict of interest , one could assume trump would bend the rules in his favor , as he boasts to always doing.and if that alone wasn t a reason to be suspicious , deutsche bank has been fighting u.s. regulators for years , which would make a partnership with trump all the more conflicted.with an ongoing battle of trying to bypass the rules in favor of wall street , the german bank was forced to pay a staggering $ 2.5 billion fine for rigging interest rates .
the fine included paying $ 600 million to the new york state department of financial services , $ 800 million to the commodities futures trading commission , and $ 775 million to the department of justice.the bank also reached multiple settlements for price fixing metals.great business partners you got there , trump .
when democrats and republicans say hillary clinton is beholden to banks , maybe the attention should be turned to trump , who literally owes a bank over $ 100 million.it s no wonder trump has pledge to repeal dodd-frank.featured image via spencer platt/getty images