those who were shocked by the latest abc / washington post goal seeking report ( aka poll ) that shows hillary opening up a 12-point lead with likely voters after the latest debate last wednesday need to look a little further .
ironically , this poll farce was embargoed for release after 9 a.m. est on saturday , which made it a dominant topic of conversation on all the morning talk shows.of course , like many of the recent polls from the likes of reuters , abc and the washington post , something curious emerges when you look just beneath the surface of the headline 12-point lead.meanwhile , with huge variances in preference across demographics one can easily see how simple it is to rig a poll by over indexing to one group vs. another .
while the pollsters release the the split of the sample pool by political affiliation , they do not share the split by any of the following demographics which are just as important to determining the outcome of the poll .
zero hedge methodology this abc news poll was conducted by landline and cellular telephone oct. 20-22 , 2016 , in english and spanish , among a random national sample of 874 likely voters .
results have a margin of sampling error of 3.5 points , including the design effect .
partisan divisions are 36-27-31 percent , democrats republicans independents .
as we ve pointed out numerous times in the past , in response to reuters efforts to tweak their polls , per the the pew research center , at least since 1992 , democrats have never enjoyed a 9-point registration gap despite the folks at abc and the washington post somehow convincing themselves it was a reasonable margin.rush limbaugh weighed in on the suspicious outlier poll that came out on saturday night : i don t care what network you watch , maybe with fox exempted , although certain places at fox you ll find the same sentiment .
it s over .
and they all cite these polls .
they all cite the polls that show hillary up 10 to 12 points .
and even take the low point at 10 , i just saw somebody on cnn , a conservative republican say , at 10 points with two weeks it s over , there s no way you can reverse that , it s history .
so they all believe the polls .
in fact , their belief in the polls is biblical .
i think these people have a greater confidence and faith in the polls than they do in the bible .
so it s over .
and , furthermore , to show you just how over it is , the democrats are actually now in red states where trump may win those states , but they re in there and they re working down the ballot and they re gon na win back the house , they re gon na win back the senate , and chuck-u schumer is gon na end up a majority leader in the senate.and you republicans , you are toast , do you understand ?
you republicans , it s toast , and you republicans had better start doing your postmortems right now , and you had better starting figuring out why this happened .
you lost this because you saw to it that trump was nominated , and if you weren t for trump , you better find out who made it possible for trump to be nominated , and you better do something about those people .
americans who are sick and tired of a corrupt media and the corrupt politicians they prop up , need to ignore these manufactured polls .
instead of wasting time reading this drivel , americans need to be out knocking on doors and contacting friends , to explain to them why we need a president like trump to drain the swamp ! there has never been a better time to ignore hillary s media and stay focused on the prize