you just can t make this up !
cnn fires black democrat operative/chairman for getting caught giving debate question she got from cnn to hillary prior to the debate .
we re just wondering out loud , ( since we know its the first logical conclusion the left would come to ) if cnn s management are just a bunch of ugly racists ? hillary supporters should be asking themselves why their candidate didn t out brazile when she cheated the system ?
update : politico reports that in yet another statement , cnn spokeswoman lauren pratapas said that on oct. 14 , the network accepted brazile s resignation.here is the wikileaks email : in a tweet , brazile thanked cnn and her former colleagues there .
on october 14th , cnn accepted donna brazile s resignation as a cnn contributor .
( her deal had previously been suspended in july when she became the interim head of the dnc .
in a tweet , brazile thanked cnn and her former colleagues there .
thank you @ cnn .
honored to be a democratic strategist and commentator on the network .
godspeed to all my former colleagues , she wrote.thank you @ cnn .
honored to be a democratic strategist and commentator on the network .
godspeed to all my former colleagues .
donna brazile ( @ donnabrazile ) october 31 , 2016as we detailed earlier , it seems dnc chair donna brazile is hoping for rescue by a higher power as the net narrows around her lies and obfuscation .
following more examples of brazile passing debate questions to the clinton campaign , cnn spokesperson lauren pratapas said in a statement that : cnn never gave brazile access to any questions , prep material , attendee list , background information or meetings in advance of a town hall or debate .
we are completely uncomfortable with what we have learned about her interactions with the clinton campaign while she was a cnn contributor .
while there has been no official statement from the dnc , here is donna brazile s latest tweet please god , let this end soon donna brazile ( @ donnabrazile ) october 30 , 2016 zero hedge