strasbourg ( reuters ) - the european union wants to launch and conclude free trade negotiations with australia and new zealand in the next two years , european commission president jean-claude juncker said on wednesday , opening up a potential race with britain .
if juncker s timeframe is achieved , the eu could nip in ahead of the uk , which is also courting both countries but can not negotiate independent trade deals until it leaves the eu in march 2019 .
juncker said there was a good chance that the eu would agree the main elements of a new free trade with the mercosur countries of argentina , brazil , paraguay and uruguay and of an updated trade partnership with mexico by the end of this year .
and today , we are proposing to open trade negotiations with australia and new zealand , juncker told eu lawmakers .
i want all of these agreements to be finalised by the end of this mandate .
and i want them negotiated in the fullest transparency , he added .
the current commission s term of office runs until oct. 31 , 2019 .
the eu is seeking to capitalize on new trade opportunities in response to a more protectionist america first stance from the united states under president donald trump .
we will not miss any opportunity to step in .
whatever space the americans leave behind , the europeans will occupy , a senior u.s. official said .
juncker said , however , that while europe favored open commerce , it needed reciprocity from its trading partners .
we have to get what we give , he said .
the european union was not a group of naive free traders and would always defend its strategic interests .
the european commission is now proposing that it should have the right to review foreign investment in important assets .
if a foreign , state-owned , company wants to purchase a european harbor , part of our energy infrastructure or a defense technology firm , this should only happen in transparency , with scrutiny and debate , juncker said .
france , germany and italy jointly welcomed the proposal to give member states a tool to intervene .
juncker did not mention any country , but most eu concern over reciprocity and investment has centered on china .
china s cosco shipping [ cosco.ul ] already owns a majority stake in greece s biggest port , piraeus , and a share of a terminal at europe s largest port , rotterdam .
china contributed to the european union s galileo satellite navigation program , which critics say led to a massive transfer of technology .