berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel expressed confidence on friday that her conservatives can reach a coalition deal with the greens and pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , but her would-be partners say the talks could still fail .
after bleeding support to the far right in last month s election , and with her former coalition partners , the social democrats ( spd ) , determined to go into opposition , merkel must bring together three disparate blocs to secure a majority .
party leaders are slated to meet on monday evening before the larger negotiating teams launch into more detailed talks .
difficult deliberations lie ahead of us in the coming days , merkel told reporters on arrival for a fresh round of exploratory talks .
but i still think we can tie the ends together if we try and work hard .
failure to forge a coalition would likely result in a new election that could see more gains for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , which surged into parliament last month .
spd leader martin schulz ruled out any prospect of resuming the outgoing grand coalition if merkel failed to reach agreement with the greens and fdp .
if mrs. merkel can t put a government together , there must be new elections , he said in an interview to be published saturday by the rnd newspaper chain .
marco buschmann , head of the fdp parliamentary group and a member of the party s negotiating team , told saturday editions of die welt newspaper that his party was ready to move into opposition if the coalition talks failed .
a new election could strengthen the far-right alternative for germany that entered parliament with 13 percent of the vote , but voters might not turn to the afd as a protest vote if the differences among the other parties were more clear , he added .
the would-be allies agreed during friday s talks on the need to relieve the financial burden on families , increase child care options and combat child poverty , negotiators said .
they also agreed to support germany s role in nato and other multilateral organizations , to strengthen cooperation with france and to maintain good relations with russia .
but they remain at odds about immigration caps , whether to end coal production , how to combat climate change and increasing defense spending , among other issues .
and the divisive issue of transport was not discussed at all on friday .
negotiators agreed to be nicer to each other , fdp deputy leader wolfgang kubicki told reporters , adding : i m willing to try , but everyone has to play along .
the parties will now spend the weekend distilling their priorities before merkel meets the other party leaders on monday .
we have all the many ingredients on the table .
now we have to combine them all into a tasty dough , said michael kellner , a top greens negotiator .
fellow greens negotiator juergen trittin struck a less conciliatory tone , telling ard television that , after 10 days of debate on 12 topics , the parties still haven t even managed to agree on what we disagree about .
fdp leader christian lindner and buschmann put the odds of a coalition being formed at 50-50 .
greens foreign policy expert omid nouripour said the talks might fail altogether .
merkel has said she expects a stable government before christmas , but senior conservatives close to her say it may take until next year for a new government to be formed .
horst seehofer , embattled head of the csu , sister party to merkel s cdu , said he was encouraged by very constructive , trustworthy discussions among party leaders in recent days .
he urged negotiators to stop airing their conflicts in public .
we can hit the reset button and hope that things change in the next few days , he said .
seehofer came under fire from his party s youth wing for cancelling a speech to the group , which has called for a more youthful image ahead of bavarian regional elections next year .
hans reichhart , head of the csu youth group , suggested the move could exacerbate debate about seehofer s future after sharp losses in the sept. 24 election .
seehofer had urged party members to put off debating the leadership until later this month , arguing that it could weaken his negotiating position in the coalition talks .