london ( reuters ) - eleven people were injured on saturday when a car collided with pedestrians near london s natural history museum , in one of the capital s busiest tourist areas , but police doused concerns it was a terrorist attack , saying it was a road traffic incident .
police said it was believed the car had mounted the pavement outside the popular attraction in west london and collided with a number of pedestrians .
officers had arrested a man aged in his 40s at the scene and he was now being questioned on suspicion of dangerous driving after being taken to hospital for treatment .
britain has suffered five attacks blamed on terrorism so far this year , three of which involved vehicles , and the incident in an area packed with tourists at the weekend had prompted concerns that the collision had been a deliberate act .
the incident is entirely a road traffic investigation and is not a terrorist-related incident , a police statement said .
london s ambulance service said they had treated 11 people , mostly for head and leg injuries , with nine taken to hospital .
police said none of the injuries were life-threatening or life-changing and the majority of those hospitalized had now been discharged .
unverified footage from the scene showed a man being pinned to the ground near a crashed black toyota car .
oliver cheshire , a model who is the fianc of british pop singer pixie lott , told the daily mail newspaper he was one of those who had helped detain the man .
he said three female passengers in the car told him it was a private-hire taxi .
he was driving down the pavement and hit 11 to 12 people .
then the guy was screaming , he told the paper .
he looked at me and i was really in shock .
i got out of my car and grabbed him three of us grabbed him and someone phoned the police .
cheshire later wrote on twitter : thanks for messaging everybody .
i m ok .
thank you to the men who helped me pin him down and the police for coming so quickly .
neither police nor transport for london , which runs most of the city s transport system , would comment on the status of the vehicle .
my thanks to the first responders at this incident this afternoon and the actions of members of the public .
my thoughts are with the injured , prime minister theresa may said on twitter .
britain is on its second highest security alert level , meaning an attack by militants is considered highly likely .
in march , a man drove a car into pedestrians on london s westminster bridge killing four before stabbing a police officer to death in the grounds of parliament .
three islamist militants drove into people on london bridge in june before stabbing people at nearby restaurants and bars , killing eight .
the same month , a van was driven into worshippers near a mosque in north london which left one man dead .