manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on monday asked congress to extend martial law on the southern island of mindanao for a year , arguing that islamist militants have been regrouping since a five-month urban conflict ended there in october .
he said fighters who survived the battle for marawi city were determined to establish a southeast asian wilayat or governorate - for islamic state and named militant abu turaifie as potentially the radical group s next regional emir .
the previous emir , isnilon hapilon , and another rebel commander loyal to islamic state were killed in october as the military closed in on fighters who had occupied the heart of marawi since may 23 .
more than 1,100 people - mostly militants - were killed and 350,000 displaced by the marawi unrest .
in his letter to the senate and house of representatives , duterte said militants were radicalizing and recruiting local people , reorganizing themselves and building their finances .
these activities are geared towards the conduct of intensified atrocities and armed public uprisings , he said , adding that they were aimed at establishing a global islamic caliphate and a wilayat , not only in the philippines but the whole of southeast asia .
a group led by turaifie - who heads a splinter group of the bangsamoro islamic freedom fighters and , according to duterte , is said to be hapilon s potential successor - was planning bombings in the cotabato province south of marawi .
intelligence reports indicate that militants are plotting to attack another city , presidential communications secretary martin andanar said on monday .
duterte placed restive mindanao , which has a population of 22 million , under military rule after the attack on marawi , and martial law was due to be lifted there on dec. 31 .
lawmakers will vote on his request for a one-year extension at a joint session on wednesday , congress majority leader rodolfo farinas told reporters .
continuing martial law beyond the initial 60-day limit requires lawmakers approval , but the constitution does not limit any extensions .
martial law allows for tougher surveillance and arrests without warrant , giving security forces greater rein to go after suspected extremist financiers and facilitators .
duterte has long warned that mindanao faced contamination by islamic state , and experts say muslim parts of the predominantly catholic southern philippines are fertile ground for expansion , due to their history of marginalization and neglect .
critics of duterte , who has held open the possibility of extending military rule to the whole country , have slammed the imposition of martial law in mindanao as a misuse of power and evidence of the president s authoritarian tendencies .
martial law is a sensitive issue in the philippines , bringing back memories of the 1970s rule of late dictator ferdinand marcos , who was accused of exaggerating security threats to justify harsh measures to suppress dissent .
human rights group karapatan questioned why martial law should be extended in mindanao nearly two months after the military s victory in marawi city .
this is a dangerous precedent that inches the entire country closer to a nationwide declaration of martial rule , it said in a statement .