washington ( reuters ) - frequent breakdowns of advanced uranium enrichment devices have inadvertently helped iran comply with restrictions in the international agreement curbing its nuclear program , according to a new report by a washington-based think tank .
iranian compliance also is due to tougher policing by u.s. president donald trump s administration of the 2015 pact to prevent tehran from developing nuclear weapons , the institute for science and international security said in a report due on friday .
a copy of the report was seen by reuters .
iran can be expected to continue to push the deal s limits , commit violations and seek interpretations that are unfounded , the report said .
one should expect many struggles to keep iran within the nuclear limits for the duration of the deal .
for those reasons and because tehran is unlikely ever to build a financially viable uranium enrichment plant , an expansion of iran s program would either be a colossal waste of money ... or the basis of a nuclear weapons program , which would not care about costs , the report said .
washington and its negotiating partners in the agreement should find a way to make the deal s restrictions permanent or severely extend their expiration times , it said .
under the deal between iran , britain , china , france , germany , russia and the united states , tehran agreed to restrict its nuclear program in return for the lifting of economic sanctions that had crippled its economy .
the report comes as trump weighs whether to certify to congress that iran is complying with the agreement .
he has until oct. 16 to make that decision .
decertifying iran could lead congress to reimpose u.s. sanctions on iran , threatening to collapse the deal and intensify tension in the middle east .
supporters of the deal , called the joint comprehensive plan of action , insist that strong international monitoring will prevent iran from developing nuclear bombs .
iran has denied that it is seeking nuclear weapons .
the international atomic energy agency , which monitors the pact , has found no material breaches by iran , a judgment with which washington has concurred .
tehran has exceeded some deal restrictions , such as a limit on its heavy water stockpile , used in nuclear reactors , the institute for science and international security said in a november 2016 report .
but it either rectified some infractions or won exemptions - while president barack obama was in office - before the pact took effect in january 2016 .
in its new report the institute listed other alleged iran compliance issues , including changes to the design of a heavy water reactor that can produce plutonium , another weapons fuel .
iran s improved compliance this year in part has been unintentional or accidental because advanced uranium enrichment devices called centrifuges have broken during testing more often than expected , according to the think tank report .
enrichment produces low-enriched uranium for power plants , but it also can make highly enriched weapons-grade uranium .
by august , iran had tested eight advanced ir-8 centrifuges although the deal limits it to one at most , the report said , adding that iran also operated between 13 and 15 interconnected ir-6 machines , which the deal restricts to 10 .
however , according to the report , all but one of the ir-8s and many of the ir-6s broke because carbon fiber components failed .
david albright , a former u.n. nuclear inspector who authored the new report , said iran s compliance also had improved because the united states is taking a tougher line on attempts to violate the nuclear limits and exploit loopholes .
two sources , including a senior u.s. official , said on wednesday that the white house does not want to kill the deal .
instead , it wants lawmakers to hold off taking action while it discusses with european allies making the limits on iran s program permanent and fixing what u.s. officials consider other flaws , said the sources , who requested anonymity .