bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s junta and a malay muslim separatist faction have blamed each other for a delay in setting up a safety zone as a confidence-building measure towards ending a decades-old insurgency .
talks on the zone ended last week in malaysia without full agreement to be followed by bombings that killed a soldier and a policeman in the thai south , where more than 6,500 people have been killed since 2004 .
no group claimed responsibility for the latest attacks .
on monday , the mara patani faction said that implementing a safety zone had been a little delayed , because some details , especially from the thai side , had not been satisfactorily addressed , but that did not mean talks had failed .
the correct approach is to continue dialogue , not walking away from it , abu hafez al-hakim , a leader of the group , said in a statement .
at the weekend , thailand s chief negotiator had said the insurgents were not ready for the safety zone , despite the sincerity of the thai government .
if the dissidents are not ready , then people s participation in the process will be delayed , general aksara kerdphol said , adding that talks would continue .
the proposed safety zone would be jointly administered by thai authorities and the separatists in a district of the three southern provinces that formed part of a malay muslim sultanate until being annexed by the mostly buddhist thai kingdom in 1909 .
within the safety zone , neither side would attack the other .
if you want to create peace you have to work with your enemy , al-hakim told reuters , saying he was hopeful a safety zone could be set up within three to six months .
but the barisan revolusi nasional ( brn ) group , which has greater control over combatants than other factions , has not joined talks .
a leader of the group told reuters last week that the current negotiations were doomed .
pak fakih said in a rare interview that safety zones could be a trick by the military in trying to uncover the insurgent networks .
the brn neither claims nor denies responsibility for any specific attack , but says it is continuing to fight to send a signal to the government .
the leader of another insurgent group , patani united liberation organization ( pulo ) , also said he was uneasy about the government s safety zone plan , but would go along with it in the spirit of cooperation .
violence would continue for now as the only way to get the government to listen , kasturi mahkota told reuters .