brussels/madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s ousted leader carles puigdemont agreed on tuesday to a snap election called by spain s central government when it took control of the region to stop it breaking away , but he said the fight for independence would go on .
spain s high court issued a summons for puigdemont and 13 members of his sacked administration to testify in madrid on thursday and friday as the court starts processing charges of rebellion , sedition and breach of trust against them .
under spain s legal system , a judge will then decide whether puigdemont should go to jail pending a comprehensive investigation and potential trial .
puigdemont travelled to brussels after the catalan regional parliament issued a unilateral declaration of independence on friday , and it was not immediately clear if he would heed the summons to appear before the madrid court .
belgium s crisis centre said it was evaluating whether puigdemont needed to be protected by belgian authorities while he was staying in the country , belga news agency reported .
he had said earlier on tuesday he would return to spain only when given unspecified guarantees by the spanish government .
puigdemont s announcement that he would accept the regional election on dec. 21 signalled the madrid government had for now at least gained the upper hand in the protracted struggle over catalonia , a wealthy northeastern region that already had enjoyed considerable autonomy .
resistance to the central government s imposition of direct control on catalonia failed to materialise at the start of the week and the secessionist leadership is in disarray .
but a poll released on tuesday showed that support for the creation of an independent state of catalonia rose to an almost three-year high in october .
spain s constitutional court on tuesday blocked the independence declaration - a largely symbolic move that gained no traction and led to the assembly s dismissal by prime minister mariano rajoy less than an hour after it was made .
i ask the catalan people to prepare for a long road .
democracy will be the foundation of our victory , puigdemont told a news conference in brussels , where he showed up after dropping out of sight over the weekend .
he also said he was not seeking asylum in belgium .
rajoy , who has taken an uncompromising stance throughout the crisis , is gambling on anti-independence parties taking power in the regional parliament and putting the brakes on the independence drive .
puigdemont will hope a strong showing for the independence camp will reboot the secessionists after a tumultuous few weeks .
the spanish government said at the weekend puigdemont was welcome to stand in the election .
the judicial process was a separate matter , it said .
the supreme court also began processing rebellion and sedition charges against catalan parliament speaker carme forcadell and other senior leaders on tuesday .
the political crisis , spain s gravest since the return of democracy in the late 1970s , was triggered by an independence referendum held in catalonia on oct. 1 .
though it was declared illegal by spanish courts and less than half catalonia s eligible voters took part , the pro-secessionist regional government said the vote gave it a mandate for independence .
the united states , britain , germany and france have all backed rajoy and rejected an independent catalan state , although some have called for dialogue between the opposing sides .
puigdemont , vice president oriol junqueras and other catalan leaders had said previously they would not accept their dismissal .
but their respective parties , pdecat and esquerra republicana de catalunya , said on monday they would take part in the election , a tacit acceptance of direct rule from madrid .
the struggle has divided catalonia itself and caused deep resentment across the rest of spain , although separatist sentiment persists in the basque country and some other areas .
two recent opinion polls showed support for independence may have started to wane .
but an official regional survey published on tuesday showed some 48.7 percent of catalans believe the region should be independent , up from 41.1 pct in june and the highest since december 2014 .
based on 1,338 interviews , the centre d estudis d opinio poll was the first survey released since the independence declaration though the bulk of it was taken before then , between oct. 16 and oct. 29 .
despite his dash to the european union s power centre , puigdemont s hopes of engaging the bloc in his cause seem forlorn .
member states have asserted their support for spanish unity and eu institutions in brussels say they will deal only with madrid and that the dispute remains an internal matter .
our position remains unchanged , eu commission spokeswoman mina andreeva said in brussels on tuesday .
but some analysts believe the dispute is not going to fade away anytime soon .
spain is heading for a period of disruption , and like the uk and brexit , having its policy agenda dominated by one political issue while other key challenges fade into the background , said raj badiani , an economist at ihs markit in london .
a more tangible impact from the crisis could evolve from early 2018 , with the uncertainty set to build as catalans push harder for a legally binding referendum .
influential catalan business lobbies have backed direct rule and called on firms to stay in the region .
the crisis has prompted more than 1,000 businesses to switch their legal headquarters from catalonia , which contributes about a fifth of spain s economy , the fourth-largest in the euro zone .
spain s ibex fell slightly as puigdemont began speaking in brussels but then rose again .
for some in barcelona , the overwhelming emotion appears to be exasperation .
it s a farcical and completely ridiculous situation , said ernesto hernandez busto , 42 , an editor .
this extreme nationalism , this separatism , has taken catalonia to the most absurd situation and the worst inconvenience we have had in the last 40 years .