donald trump s former chief strategist stephen k. bannon exited the whitey house following the so-called president s widely condemned response to the nazi march in charlottesville , virginia in which one of his supporters murdered a woman and injured 19 others .
so , bannon headed back to fake news site breitbart.com .
sniff , i m gon na take my ball and go home !
bannon will be greeted by advertisers fleeing from the site .
in recent months , nearly 2,600 advertisers have discontinued their ads from the site which is presently publishing smear pieces against trump s national security adviser , h.r .
mcmaster.a boycott by a grassroots campaign was launched against the site and that seems to have been effective considering the mass exodus of advertisers.the campaign works like this : tweets are directed to advertisers , like this one which reads , @ simpletire are you aware that your ads are running on breitbart s hateful site ?
@ slpng_giants can help !
just ask .
hi mistie , thanks for letting us know , we have removed them from our ad feed .
@ slpng_giants simpletire.com ( @ simpletire ) august 21 , 2017boom !
simple tire has removed their ads from breitbart.the independent reports : according to a tweet by sleeping giants , a campaign group aiming to pressure companies into cutting ties with media they deem to be racist or sexist , the number of advertisers that have ceased advertising is climbing towards 2,600 .the individual behind sleeping giants has been at this for quite awhile.here are a few examples : confirmed : @ medpost has blocked breitbart from their media buy !
thank you !
https : //t.co/fgxo8lsswy sleeping giants ( @ slpng_giants ) august 21 , 2017confirmed : @ vegateam has blocked breitbart from their media buy !
thanks !
https : //t.co/odwijb4297 sleeping giants ( @ slpng_giants ) august 21 , 2017after so many have been fired or vacated their positions in the trump administration , it might be payback time for the former reality show star .
bannon is reportedly ramping up for war against trump now that he s been fired.bannon friend says breitbart ramping up for war against trump .
`` it 's now a democrat white house , '' source says .
gabriel sherman ( @ gabrielsherman ) august 18 , 2017breitbart editor joel pollak suggested that bannon s ousting means war .
# war joel b. pollak ( @ joelpollak ) august 18 , 2017well , we know what kind of war trump can expect from the alt-right site .
twitter accounts with pepe the frog avatars will be launched , and perhaps they ll start conspiracy theories about trump , maybe saying that he has low stamina , he s sick and doesn t have long to live ( because he coughed ) , and who knows , trump might visit a pizzeria where there is obviously a child sex slave ring in the basement even though it doesn t have a basement.breitbart has even more to worry about .
in may it was reported that breitbart.com has fallen from 45th place to 281st place in news site traffic ratings since march , according to the web analytics company alexa.com .
as of august 19th , breitbart has fallen to 298th place in traffic ratings.i know how breitbart can get their traffic booming again .
if bannon has access to the pee-pee tapes and publishes them , he can give his site s servers a real test for how much traffic it can hold .
you see how we try to help ? photo by win mcnamee/getty images