tunis ( reuters ) - the uae , which angered tunisia by banning tunisian women from its passenger flights , has intelligence that female jihadists returning from iraq or syria might try to use tunisian passports to stage terrorist attacks , a tunisian government official said .
tunisia had demanded the united arab emirates apologize for the travel ban - saying that the uae had provided no explanation - and on sunday it suspended the dubai-based airline emirates from operating at tunis airport .
since then , saida garrach , an advisor at the tunisian presidency , told local radio shems fm that the uae had serious information over the possibility of terrorist acts as part of returning fighters leaving iraq and syria , and that the two countries were now working together to address the threat .
there are terrorist plots in several countries , garrach said in an interview conducted on monday and posted on the station s website .
what concerns the united arab emirates is the possibility of terrorist acts committed by tunisian women or by tunisian passport holders , she said .
garrach criticized the way the threat had been communicated to tunisia .
we are fighting terrorism together with the united arab emirates and we are coordinating to solve this problem .
but we can not accept the way tunisian women are treated and don t accept what has happened to tunisian women at airports .
tunisia is among the countries with the highest per capita number of militant islamists , a problem linked to widespread radicalisation among disillusioned youths and a loosening of security controls after tunisia s 2011 uprising .
the military defeat of the islamic state group in most of syria and iraq this year has prompted many foreign militants and their families to go home .
islamic state has also lost its main stronghold in tunisia s neighbor libya .
more than 3,000 tunisians are known to have traveled abroad to wage jihad , according to the interior ministry .
a year ago the interior minister said 800 had come back to tunisia , where they have been jailed , monitored or put under house arrest .