moscow ( reuters ) - russia said on saturday it was fully committed to a cold war-era pact with the united states banning intermediate-range cruise missiles , a day after washington accused moscow of violating the treaty .
the u.s. state department said on friday washington was reviewing military options , including new intermediate-range cruise missile systems , in response to what it said was russia s ongoing violation of the 1987 intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty .
the warning was the first response by president donald trump s administration to u.s. charges first leveled in 2014 that russia had deployed a ground-launched cruise missile that breaches the pact s ban on testing and fielding missiles with ranges of 500-5,500 kms ( 310-3,417 miles ) .
russian deputy foreign minister sergei ryabkov said those allegations were absolutely unfounded .
they are not supported by the technical characteristics of the launch installation which allegedly does not comply with the treaty , or by flight telemetry data .
nothing .
and it is understandable why - because it simply does not exist , he said in written comments published by the foreign ministry .
echoing previous russian statements , ryabkov said moscow was fully committed to the treaty , had always rigorously complied with it , and was prepared to continue doing so .
however , if the other side stops following it , we will be forced , as president of the russian federation vladimir putin has already said , to respond in kind , he added .
the u.s. allegation has further strained relations between moscow and washington , and the state department on friday hinted at possible economic sanctions over the issue .
washington has already sanctioned russian entities and individuals , including people close to putin , for moscow s 2014 seizure of crimea from ukraine and its alleged interference in the 2016 u.s. presidential election .
the kremlin has repeatedly denied interfering in the election .
ryabkov said the attempts to frighten us with sanctions were laughable .
it s time for american politicians and diplomats to understand that economic and military pressure on russia will not work , he said .
( this version of the story has been refiled to clarify in paragraph 2 that it is u.s. administration , not state department , reviewing military options )