manchester , england ( reuters ) - a deal can be done by the end of october to restore northern ireland s power-sharing government , sinn fein s leader in the region said on tuesday , raising a possible compromise with the democratic unionist party ( dup ) .
unless the two sides clinch an agreement , the british government will be forced to bypass the regional assembly and move toward direct rule from london , potentially destabilizing the delicate political balance in the british province .
northern ireland s two largest parties have failed to reach agreement on reforming the devolved administration since its collapse in january and britain s minister for northern ireland has told them they are rapidly running out of time to do so .
throughout the irish peace process we have been through very difficult times and we have been able to find a way forward , michelle o neill told reuters on the sidelines of the conservative party conference in the english city of manchester .
we are in intensive negotiations and we will continue to work our way through it .
i believe it can be done but obviously we are into a crucial period in the next couple of weeks , she said when asked if a deal could be done by the end of the month .
irish nationalists sinn fein s demand that improved rights for irish language speakers must be introduced via a standalone piece of legislation remains the biggest impediment to reaching an agreement with the pro-british dup .
however o neill said on tuesday that legislation to promote the culture and language of ulster scots - a dup demand - could be implemented side by side with an irish language act , raising the prospect of the rival parties finding common ground .
let s respect everybody s identity : let s bring forward legislation for ulster scots alongside legislation for irish language .
they can be two pieces of legislation .
let s look , said o neill , who took over from martin mcguinness shortly before his death this year .
dup leader arlene foster , whose party also props up the conservative government in the british parliament , told the same event that solid progress was being made in the talks .
while the restoration of the devolved government would give northern ireland a greater say in brexit negotiations , the two parties that would lead it remain polarized on the issue .
o neill reiterated the need for northern ireland to be given special status in the eu to ensure the border to the south with eu-member ireland remains open while foster insisted that there could not be any barriers between the province and the rest of the united kingdom .
we should leave the customs union and we should leave the single market .
you can t be any clearer than that , foster said .