president donald trump returned to cpac on friday , receiving a rock star welcome from the packed ballroom.he kicked off the speech defending his statement on twitter that the media was the enemy of the people , vowing to fight their fake news stories .
a few days ago i called the fake news the enemy of the people , and they are .
they are the enemy of the people , he said , criticizing their dishonest coverage of his administration.trump admitted that the media was very upset by his repeated criticisms , but that he would continue to do so , citing the first amendment .
they get upset , they say we can t criticize their dishonest coverage because of the first amendment .
they always bring up the first amendment , he said .
i love the first amendment .
nobody loves it better than me .
here are a few of our favorite zingers from his speech : never underestimate the people never !
if our presidents would ve gone to the beach for 15 years , we would be in much better shape than we are right now .
jobs are already starting to pour back into our country .
it s time for all americans to get off welfare and get back to work you re gon na love it !
you re gon na love it !
obamacare covers very few people and remember , deduct from the number all of the people that had great health care that they loved that was taken away from them .
it was taken away from them .
here are a few highlights from his speech : trump traveled to the conference center in maryland aboard marine one , returning to the cpac conference where he made his first big politically themed speeches .
supporters lined up hours early to get in the conference hall , but had to go through tight security to enter the building.during his speech , the president vowed to keep his campaign promises , specifically a repeal and replace of obamacare , building the keystone and dakota pipelines , building a wall on the southern border , restoring military funding .
we have to , to turn things around .
the era of empty talk is over , he said .
it s over .
now is the time for action .
breitbart news