united nations ( reuters ) - the united states threatened on tuesday to take further action against the south sudan government if it does not end violence and allow united nations peacekeepers to do their job , but u.n. sanctions are unlikely as russia has warned against such a move .
a month after u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley visited south sudan and met with president salva kiir in the capital juba , she told the u.n. security council : words are no longer sufficient .
the united states is prepared to pursue additional measures against the government or any party , for that matter if they do not act to end the violence and ease the suffering in south sudan , said haley , who was the most senior member of president donald trump s administration to visit south sudan .
the trump administration imposed sanctions in september on two senior south sudanese officials and the former army chief for their role in the civil war and attacks against civilians .
however , any u.s. push for the u.n. security council to take further action against south sudan is likely to be resisted by veto power russia .
the council sanctioned several senior south sudanese officials on both sides of the conflict in 2015 , but a u.s. bid to impose an arms embargo in december 2016 failed .
it is counterproductive to impose targeted sanctions , counterproductive to impose an arms embargo , such measures will not help to break this deadlock and will only further exacerbate the crisis , russia s deputy u.n .
ambassador petr iliichev .
south sudan spiraled into civil war in late 2013 , two years after gaining independence from sudan , and a third of the 12 million population has fled their homes .
the conflict was sparked by a feud between kiir , a dinka , and his former deputy riek machar , a nuer , who is being held in south africa .
a fragile peace deal in south sudan broke down last year and east african bloc igad has been trying to revive it .
we view as unjust the ongoing attempts to place all blame for the persistent unabated violence on juba alone , it has done its role , now the opposition must reciprocate , iliichev said .
u.n. sanctions monitors reported earlier this month that despite the catastrophic conditions across south sudan , armed forces , groups and militias - particularly those affiliated with kiir and vice president taban deng gai - continued to actively impede both humanitarian and peacekeeping operations .