washington ( reuters ) - a handful of private u.s. citizens who traveled to cuba say they have experienced symptoms similar to those suffered by american diplomats in mysterious health attacks in havana , the u.s. state department said on friday .
a state department spokesperson , who declined to be named , said the agency could not verify the claims but said travelers should heed its travel warning issued last friday .
the warning urged americans to stay away from cuba because of unexplained health attacks it says have caused hearing loss , dizziness , fatigue and cognitive issues among at least 22 diplomatic personnel .
the trump administration on tuesday expelled 15 cuban diplomats to protest cuba s failure to protect staff at the u.s. embassy in the communist country , just days after washington recalled more than half the u.s. diplomatic personnel from havana .
cuba has denied involvement , and washington has not directly blamed the government in havana .
so far , no probes have yielded any answers about how the alleged attacks were carried out or who was responsible .
the warning said the attacks had occurred in diplomatic residences and hotels frequented by u.s. citizens .
cbs news first reported that some private citizens had complained of symptoms after visiting cuba .
on friday , the u.s. embassy in havana identified the hotel nacional and hotel capri as the two places where it said embassy personnel had been targeted over the past few months , and said the u.s. government had imposed limitations on lodging there .
receptionists at both hotels , when contacted by reuters , said they had not heard of any restrictions .
both said they had americans registered there and their managers were not immediately available for comment .
u.s. intelligence operatives working undercover were among the embassy personnel affected by the attacks , but it was unclear if they were specifically targeted since the symptoms hit staff across a range of job categories , u.s. officials have told reuters .
the steps taken by republican president donald trump s administration deliver another blow to his democratic predecessor barack obama s policy of rapprochement , including actions likely to erode the normalization of a relationship dominated for decades by cold war hostility and suspicion .
cuban foreign minister bruno rodriguez denounced the expulsion of cuban diplomats as unjustified , accused the united states of insufficient cooperation with cuba s investigation and urged washington to stop politicizing the matter .
theories about the attacks abound , from surveillance technology gone awry to a sophisticated acoustic weapon in the hands of cuban-american exiles or third-party state actors such as russia , iran or north korea .
but no clear explanation has emerged .