it s not just the our open southern borders we need to be concerned about .
it s our state department who seems to be hell-bent on populating our states with refugees from mostly muslim nations in africa and the middle east.this is one of those feel-good stories about how minnesota is such a wonderful state with its ever-expanding african migrant population .
if you are a minnesotan it s probably a good thing to read.however , i caution readers on the numbers .
the twincities pioneer press reports that there are about 85,000 somalis in the whole us and that just isn t so the number is much larger .
we painstakingly researched the numbers for just those entering the us through the refugee program and came up with over 100,000 in the last 25 years and that doesn t include a couple generations now of producing children .
see this early post.you will see mention in the story that when census takers come around , the africans are less than truthful about how many are living at the location.from twincities pioneer press : of the 50 states , minnesota has the ninth-largest population of african immigrants .
about 60 percent come from east african nations such as somalia and ethiopia , and 25 percent from west african nations such as nigeria and liberia .
the rest come from elsewhere in africa.of more than 85,700 somalis officially known to reside in the u.s. , nearly a third are thought to reside in minnesota.corrie , a professor at concordia university in st. paul , believes the state s african population produces $ 14 million in philanthropy within minnesota each year , on top of $ 150 million in annual remittances to countries in africa.i don t know why this is considered a good thing sending money out of america that will never benefit our economy ! some of the smart people on our side should get to work doing studies that will show the real picture including how much welfare is consumed by the immigrants , how costly is their medical care and education , the cost to the criminal justice system , and include an analysis of where the money goes ! i m starting to think that glowing reports about how immigrants benefit the local economy include the money flowing into a state like minnesota from the federal tax payer via welfare programs .
someone needs to find out ! by the way , i don t see any mention in the pioneer press story about the fact that half of the state s somalis live in poverty , here .
via : refugee resettlement watchthe state department has helped to relocate tens of thousands of refugees from the war-torn african nation of somalia to minnesota , where they can take advantage of some of america s most generous welfare and charity programs.but the effort is having the unintended consequence of creating an enclave of immigrants with high unemployment that is both stressing the state s safety net and creating a rich pool of potential recruiting targets for islamist terror groups .
via : washington times