marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - after five months of crippling conflict , there are slow signs of life returning in the philippines battered marawi city .
utilities engineers were at work on thursday in the near-deserted outskirts of marawi which escaped the daily air strikes that flattened vast swathes of the city .
a few groceries , motorcycle repair shops and gasoline sellers have opened , ready for the first batch of returning residents in the coming days .
nearly 6,500 families will be headed back to the homes that were left intact , out of the 353,000 people displaced when hundreds of pro-islamic state gunmen ran amok and seized control of central marawi in may .
combat operations ended on monday , when the last fighters were killed in a fierce final stand .
with vehicles crushed and overturned and buildings reduced to skeletons of mangled steel and rubble , the city appears to be in the aftermath of a war that lasted years , rather than months .
amelah ampaso said she decided that day to sneak back to marawi and reopen her shop , now stocked with cooking oil and cigarettes and offering photocopying services , printing , and haircuts .
as a first-mover in a liberated marawi , the 25-year-old is doing brisk business among the few people around .
the other shops are closed , so people are coming here , she said .
it s safe again .
but nearby streets look like the set of a post-apocalyptic film , silent , with shutters pulled down and weeds growing between concrete slabs .
rust and decay is setting in after months of heavy rains and neglect .
spray painted on the walls of almost every building is the word clear , marking where police and soldiers went house-to-house checking thousands of abandoned properties for booby-traps or signs of insurgents hiding .
the fighting has taken a heavy toll , killing more than 1,100 people , mostly militants , and reducing a large part of the interior of the city to piles of rubble , leaving only shells of uninhabitable gray buildings .
shop owner madid noor , 64 , returned two months into the battle , reassured by detachments of soldiers and police nearby , and unperturbed by what were constant explosions and the howling of fighter jets over the city .
after a few lean months , he hopes returnees will come to him to buy washing powder , petrol and fake branded sportswear .
some days we have customers .
but not every day , he said .