kinshasa ( reuters ) - at least 30 burundian refugees have been killed in clashes with congolese security forces over plans to send some of them home , a reuters witness and local activists said on saturday .
police and soldiers opened fire as the refugees protested over the plan in the town of kamanyola in eastern democratic republic of congo on friday , the activists told reuters .
congo s government spokesman lambert mende denied that those killed were refugees , saying that the clashes broke out when assailants from an unidentified armed group attacked an office belonging to the national intelligence agency .
five soldiers and 20 of the attackers were killed in the fighting , mende said .
more than 400,000 refugees have fled burundi - including 40,000 to neighboring congo - since violence erupted in april 2015 when president pierre nkurunziza said he would seek a third term in office , a move his opponents said was unconstitutional .
wendo joel , an activist from a congolese pro-democracy and human right group , said the refugees had seized a weapon and killed a soldier as they tried to free some of their arrested compatriots .
the soldiers first fired in the air but there were many refugees , joel told reuters .
i have counted 32 bodies .
there are also about 100 wounded .
reuters tv footage showed more than 30 bodies covered by sheets on the roadside in kamanyola , with many more wounded also lying in the street .
a u.n. spokeswoman confirmed that at least 18 burundian asylum seekers had been killed but said the toll was likely to rise .
many others had taken shelter at the u.n. peacekeeping mission s nearby base , she added .
according to a spokesman for the u.n. refugee agency , more than 2,000 burundian refugees live in kamanyola with host families .
in a statement , burundi s main opposition grouping , cnared , accused burundian army troops and members of the ruling cndd-fdd s youth group imbonerakure of carrying out the killings with the congolese army .
burundian officials could not be immediately reached for comment , but burundi s foreign minister alain aime nyamitwe wrote on twitter : my heart sinks as i learn of the shootings in eastern # drc .
clarifications are needed on the shootings & circumstances around , he added .
the violence in burundi has killed over 700 people and a u.n. commission said last week there were reasonable grounds to believe authorities had committed crimes against humanity .
the government rejected the commission s findings as propaganda .