pyongyang - north koreans stage a demonstration of devotion to their leader kim jong un at least once a year , in a large ceremonial square in pyongyang .
mansae !
the people call as they parade past the 33-year old , who stands on a balcony above them : live long !
this december , kim will mark six years in power .
in that time he has purged or executed around 340 people , according to the institute for national security strategy , a think tank of south korea s national intelligence service ( nis ) .
the people on parade carry flowers including north korea s national blooms , kimilsungia and kimjongilia , which were specially created in honor of kim s grandfather and father , kim il sung and kim jong il .
north korea is the only socialist country to have passed power down the family line .
images of former presidents are pinned on the left side of every jacket and dress .
they are worn there to be close to the wearers hearts .
in private conversations , some north koreans quietly lament the shortcomings of their system : it s too bureaucratic , takes too long to get things done , is disorganized , they say .
but few dare to openly criticize the supreme leader .
north korea s gdp per capita , estimated at $ 1,700 in the cia factbook , places it 215th in the world it is poorer than haiti , zimbabwe and afghanistan .
defectors say many north koreans lead double lives , earning money in unofficial market places to supplement state incomes .
the leadership turns a blind eye to this .
traditionally , pyongyang has been the home of north korea s elites .
but the inhabitants of the capital must also prepare for the parades .
around this time , everyone everywhere must increase production in a process known as a battle .
people , organized into work units , are assigned duties on top of their usual jobs .
the 70-day battle ahead of a party congress in 2016 meant long after-work hours sprucing up the capital .
state media released a report : some work units had delivered 110 percent of their quotas .
the fatigue shows in some flower-wavers faces .
on june 1 , 2016 , the country announced that a new campaign of celebration was to be held .
this time , it said , the battle would last 200 days .