washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama is maintaining pressure on the senate to approve his supreme court nominee , but the need for republican u.s. senators seeking re-election to keep conservative voters happy before primary elections in the coming months is working against him .
from april 26 to sept. 13 , nine states where incumbent republicans ’ grip on u.s. senate seats is tenuous will hold party primaries ahead of the nov. 8 congressional and presidential elections .
during that period , republicans seem unlikely to break with senate majority leader mitch mcconnell ’ s hard-line stance against holding confirmation hearings or a vote on obama ’ s nominee , appellate judge merrick garland .
mcconnell has insisted that obama ’ s successor , to be elected in november and take office in january , should fill the vacancy left by february ’ s death of justice antonin scalia .
republicans are hoping their party ’ s candidate wins the presidency and can make the appointment .
a supreme court appointment requires senate confirmation .
voicing support for holding garland hearings during the primary season , political experts say , could enrage conservatives already upset over the prospect of obama making a third lifetime appointment to the nine-member court , which could give the bench a liberal tilt for the first time in decades .
that anger could bolster primary candidates challenging incumbent republicans from the right or encourage new challengers to come forward .
political science professor sheldon goldman of the university of massachusetts at amherst , who has tracked supreme court nominations since the 1960s , said of the garland fight : “ the real obstacle is getting over the primaries. ” the danger of straying from mcconnell ’ s blockade was illustrated when kansas republican jerry moran last month backed hearings on garland but reversed course after rumblings of a right-wing challenge materializing in moran ’ s aug. 2 primary .
other key battlegrounds for senate republicans include wisconsin , pennsylvania , florida and new hampshire .
new hampshire ’ s kelly ayotte is viewed as one of the most vulnerable senate republican incumbents .
ayotte will meet with garland but said she wants the senate to wait until after november ’ s elections to act on the nomination .
arizona senator john mccain , facing at least two opponents in his aug. 30 republican primary , downplayed the political difficulties presented by garland ’ s nomination .
he said when he was home during the recent senate recess , he heard few complaints .
of his constituents , mccain said , “ they would ask .
i would explain. ” obama and fellow democrats in the senate continue to press republicans to allow hearings by summer .
“ so what you have here is , i think , a circumstance in which those ( republicans ) in the senate have decided that ‘ placating our base ’ is more important than upholding their constitutional and institutional roles in our democracy in a way that is dangerous , ” obama said in chicago on thursday .
some democrats think mcconnell ’ s gambit gives them a campaign issue for the elections .
dick durbin , the senate ’ s no .
2 democrat , said , “ if there was any question about obstruction in the united states senate , what ’ s happening with the vacancy on the supreme court is exhibit a of republican obstructionism . ”