kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysian prime minister najib razak will aim to reduce unhappiness over rising costs of living when he unveils his 2018 budget on friday , ahead of an election that must be held within 10 months .
prices rose sharply in malaysia - where household debt is among the highest in asia - after najib cut subsidies and in 2015 imposed a broad-based consumption tax , denting his popularity .
the leader also faces a political challenge from his mentor-turned-foe , former prime minister mahathir mohamad , who called najib a thief in connection with a scandal at state fund 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) .
najib has denied any wrongdoing .
najib will bank on the new budget to shore up support before his five-year tenure ends in june .
given the coming election , it will be more surprising if he announces something not people friendly , said brian tan , a singapore-based economist with nomura .
stronger global commodity prices have aided the oil-dependent economy and given najib some room to boost spending .
but progress in narrowing the fiscal deficit - expected at 3 percent this year compared with 6 percent in 2009 - would plateau next year if the government focuses on pre-election spending , said moody s analyst anushka shah .
it depends on what they do ... whether they spend it on handouts and be seen as more populist or whether they save it , in which case we should see a reduction in the deficit , shah said .
most economists expect the new budget s fiscal deficit target will be slightly below 3.0 percent .
any widening of the deficit would disappoint foreign investors .
they have gradually returned to southeast asia s third largest economy as the ringgit currency , after a tumultuous period , strengthened 6 percent against the dollar this year .
najib , who has pushed a pro-business stance since becoming premier in 2009 , dismantled decades-old fuel subsidies after narrowly winning the 2013 elections , to stave off the threat of a sovereign rating downgrade .
to bolster government revenue in 2018 , najib will likely broaden the scope of the goods and services tax imposed in 2015 to include e-commerce transactions , though he is unlikely to change the 6 percent rate .
the extra revenue is expected to fund goodies for malaysia s 1.6 million civil servants - a key vote bank for his barisan nasional ( bn ) ruling coalition - to mitigate the strain from pricier goods and services .
civil servants saw a salary hike between 7 and 13 percent in 2012 , ahead of the 2013 polls .
but the recent sharp price increases may be eroding support among them .
the opposition naturally anticipates that the coming budget will have handouts to help the bn win votes in the election .
malaysians can expect many goodies ... budgets are one of the political tools for barisan nasional to prepare them for general election , said kerk chee yee of the opposition democratic action party ( dap ) .
najib , who is also finance minister , has already rolled out billions of ringgit worth of handouts for palm plantation settlers and armed forces veterans , and affordable housing projects , new schools and hospitals across the country .
we have to ensure quality of life of malaysians ( by ) introducing more affordable housing , steady level of income growth , managing cost of living and certain initiatives that can supplement income , najib said on the government s official budget website .
he is likely to maintain cash handouts to low income earners , provide tax breaks for middle income earners and expand policies to provide affordable housing .
( $ 1 = 4.2240 ringgit )