( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump , who frequently touts his opposition to the iraq war , appeared to support the idea in a newly unearthed 2002 interview , but said on thursday he became an opponent by the time the invasion occurred .
in the interview before the war began , which was republished by buzzfeed on thursday , radio personality howard stern asked trump if he supported invading iraq .
“ yeah i guess so , ” trump said , according to the audio clip .
during a town hall event in south carolina on thursday , trump said the interview was not relevant because his views changed before the invasion .
“ by the time the war started , i was against it , and shortly after , i was really against it , ” he said .
the billionaire businessman and former reality tv star , who leads the field seeking the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama , has cited his opposition to the 2003 invasion of iraq as evidence of his foreign policy credentials .
but his criticism of former republican president george w. bush ’ s actions has aggravated some in his party , including in south carolina , which holds its republican primary on saturday .
trump ’ s comments on thursday came after a participant at the cnn event said he was “ stung ” when the real estate mogul in a recent republican debate accused bush of lying about the reasons to go to war .
he was referring to allegations , later proven false , that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction .
trump walked back that criticism , saying the reasons for going to war were unclear .
but he said the invasion was not justified and contributed to the destabilization of the middle east .
“ going into iraq , it may have been the worst decision anybody has made , any president has made , in the history of this country .
that ’ s how bad it is , ” trump said .
( reporting by emily stephenson in washington and emily flitter in south carolina ; editing by peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .