beijing ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping on wednesday laid out a confident vision for a more prosperous nation and its role in the world , stressing the importance of wiping out corruption and curbing industrial overcapacity , income inequality and pollution .
opening a critical communist party congress , xi pledged to build a modern socialist country for a new era that will be proudly chinese and steadfastly ruled by the party but open to the world .
although his wide-ranging address made clear there were no plans for political reform , xi said china s development had entered a new era , using the phrase 36 times in a speech that ran nearly 3-1/2 hours .
with decades of hard work , socialism with chinese characteristics has crossed the threshold into a new era , xi said .
the twice-a-decade event , a weeklong , mostly closed-door conclave , will culminate in the selection of a new politburo standing committee to rule china s 1.4 billion people for the next five years , with xi expected to consolidate his control and potentially retain power beyond 2022 , when the next congress takes place .
the 64-year-old xi , widely regarded as the most powerful chinese leader since mao zedong , spoke to more than 2,000 delegates in beijing 's cavernous , red-carpeted great hall of the people , including 91-year-old former president jiang zemin .
security was tight on a rainy , smoggy day in the capital .
as expected , the speech was heavy on aspiration and short on specific plans .
on the economy , xi said china would relax market access for foreign investment , expand access to its services sector and deepen market-oriented reform of its exchange rate and financial system , while at the same time strengthening state firms .
during xi s first term , china disappointed many investors who had expected it to usher in more market-oriented reforms , especially in the debt-laden state sector .
if xi gets the political mandate that he is expected to out of the congress , then my hope is that the state sector reforms actually get done , damien ma , fellow and associate director at u.s. thinktank the paulson institute , told the reuters global markets forum .
if not , then i would also revise my assessment of the state of reforms in china .
there have been talks in beijing that the state sector will be a focus after the 19th party congress , so we need to see .
the european union chamber of commerce in china said it welcomed commitments to open wider the door and treat all companies equally , but said european companies operating in china continued to suffer from promise fatigue .
the only cure for this is promise implementation , it said in a statement .
in what was probably an indirect reference to u.s. president donald trump s america first policy , xi promised that china would be fully engaged with the world , and reiterated pledges to tackle climate change .
trump this year opted to withdraw the united states from the paris climate pact .
no country can alone address the many challenges facing mankind ; no country can afford to retreat into self-isolation , xi told the delegates , among them buddhist monks , olympic medallists , farmers and at least one astronaut .
xi set bold long-term goals for china s development , envisioning it as a basically modernised socialist country by 2035 , and a modern socialist strong power with leading influence on the world stage by 2050 .
but he signalled there would be no significant political reforms , calling china s system the broadest , most genuine , and most effective way to safeguard the interests of the people .
xi has overseen a sweeping crackdown on civil society , locking up rights lawyers and dissidents and tightening internet controls as he has sought to revitalise the communist party and its place in contemporary china .
we should not just mechanically copy the political systems of other countries , he said .
we must unwaveringly uphold and improve party leadership and make the party still stronger .
xi praised the party s successes , particularly his high-profile anti-graft campaign , in which more than a million officials have been punished and dozens of former senior officials jailed , saying it would never end as corruption was the gravest threat the party faces .
on self-ruled taiwan , claimed by beijing as its own , xi said china would never allow the island to separate from china , adding that china would strive to fully transform its armed forces into a world-class military by the mid-21st century .
he made no mention of neighbouring north korea , which has angered beijing with repeated nuclear and ballistic missile tests in defiance of u.n. sanctions .
pyongyang sent a congratulatory message ahead of the meeting .
xi has consolidated power swiftly since assuming the party leadership in 2012 , locking up rivals for corruption , restructuring the military and asserting china s rising might on the world stage .
focus at the congress will be on how xi plans to use his expanded authority , and moves to enable him to stay on in a leadership capacity after his second term ends in 2022 .
that could include resurrecting the position of party chairman , a title that would put him on par with mao , the founding father of modern china .
in all aspects he is on the right track to be our next chairman mao , su shengcheng , a delegate from the northwestern province of qinghai , told reuters .
he will lead the party and central committee to continue its way to success .
as with other major set-piece events in the capital , beijing has been blanketed with security in the run-up to the congress , with long queues of passengers at some subway stations waiting to go through metal detectors and be patted down .
large red banners plastered around beijing trumpet the congress , while censors have stepped up already tight monitoring of the internet .
tencent holdings ltd s wechat , china s top social media platform with more than 960 million users , said late on tuesday that system maintenance would render users unable to alter profile pictures , nicknames and tag lines until month-end .
the disabled features are sporadically used to show solidarity for popular social and political causes .