havana ( reuters ) - cuba took another step on sunday toward the end of the castro era , with millions of residents placing paper ballots in cardboard boxes for ward delegates to municipal assemblies .
the vote comes the day after the first anniversary of revolutionary leader fidel castro s death and precedes another election early next year for provincial and national assembly deputies .
the new national assembly , where 50 percent of the deputies must be ward delegates elected on sunday , is expected on feb. 24 to select a new president to replace raul castro , fidel s 86-year-old younger brother , who has said he will step down after serving two five-year terms .
the castro brothers have headed the government since the 1959 revolution .
raul castro will remain head of the communist party until 2021 , the only legal party in cuba .
nearly 27,000 candidates are running for 12,515 ward positions in sunday s election , the only part of the electoral process that is contested publicly and with direct participation by ordinary cubans .
the results will be announced on monday .
the candidates for the provincial and national assemblies are nominated by commissions composed of representatives of communist party-controlled organizations , such as the trade union federation , then presented as a slate for a public vote .
those slates have had the same number of names as seats in previous elections .
fifty percent of those names must be ward delegates .
the electoral cycle comes at a tricky time for the caribbean nation as the revolutionary generation passes , an economic reform program appears stalled , aid from key ally venezuela shrinks , and the trump administration threatens .
yet candidates debated none of these issues before sunday s vote .
first vice president miguel diaz-canel , who is expected to succeed castro , lauded the electoral process and refused to speculate about his future .
today is a day to talk about what we are doing and fidel , he told reporters after casting his ballot .
asked about relations with the united states , he said cuba remained interested in improving them , but reiterated its position that negotiations would have to be based on mutual respect and equality and without dictates .
the future depends on them , not us , he said .
campaigning is prohibited in cuba , and candidates for the ward posts were nominated at neighborhood meetings based on their personal merits , not policy positions .
they need not belong to the communist party , and many candidates are independents , but only a few government opponents have ever competed .
i am happy to vote , but i must say , like most young people i do not think it makes any difference , said a young woman , who requested anonymity because she holds an important government job .
she added that there was an ongoing discussion on how to reform the electoral process and make government more responsive .
this year a coalition of opposition groups ran more than 160 pre-candidates , but most were blocked by state security from nomination meetings , and none are running on sunday .