paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron may have won the first round of his battle to overhaul france s economy , but the coming 10 days promise to bring far more protests and unrest to the streets as labor unions and the political left step up their opposition .
last week s demonstration by the communist party-linked cgt union against changes to the labor code drew many fewer protesters than expected , with police saying 220,000 people turned out nationwide , against union estimates of 400,000 .
despite opposition , the government will adopt the labor reform , which simplifies employment rules and makes hiring and firing easier , on sept. 22 .
but even if that battle may be lost for the unions , many workers , retirees , civil servants and youth are not giving up as they look warily toward macron s longer-term plans to overhaul the unemployment benefit and pensions systems as well .
jean-luc melenchon , head of the left-wing la france insoumise ( france unbowed ) party , who sees himself as the main voice of opposition , has described macron s proposals as a social coup d etat .
he is calling for a mass march on paris by the party s 530,000 mostly young members on sept. 23 .
on monday , truck drivers belonging to the cfdt union , the largest in the country although politically more centrist , blocked some highways , including in the busy pas-de-calais area in the northeast , to protest the labor code changes .
today is a warning , patrick blaise , secretary general of cfdt s truck drivers , told le parisien newspaper .
if they don t listen to us , cfdt s truckers won t stop there .
on sept. 21 , the cgt union is calling for another round of nationwide protests and on sept. 25 truck drivers belonging to cgt and force ouvriere , the third largest union , will begin rolling strikes , including targeting petrol stations .
keeping the pressure on , union groups are calling on retirees to demonstrate on sept. 28 against increases to social charges , which in france are applied to a variety of income sources and used to fund health care and welfare .
we don t intend to wait until the pension reform proposals to act , said fabrice angei , a senior cgt official .
we need to put an end to the destruction of our social model .
while macron , 39 , has seen his approval rating slump since his resounding election victory in may , he shows no sign of diluting his ambitious plans to retool the economy , including bringing down unemployment stuck above 9 percent for a decade .
but both he and prime minister edouard philippe acknowledge that the changes to the labor code are just the first step in a long program , with the other measures likely to provoke much greater opposition and cause more social disruption .
this second phase is going to take longer than the current one , philippe said last week .
behind these reforms isn t only the desire to relaunch the economy , he said .
it s about our collective ability to be a country that acts decisively .