in january 2015 a group of haitians surrounded the new york offices of the clinton foundation .
they chanted slogans , accusing bill and hillary clinton of having robbed them of billions of dollars .
two months later , the haitians were at it again , accusing the clintons of duplicity , malfeasance , and theft .
and in may 2015 , they were back , this time outside new york s cipriani , where bill clinton received an award and collected a $ 500,000 check for his foundation .
clinton , where s the money ?
the haitian signs read .
in whose pockets ?
said dhoud andre of the commission against dictatorship , we are telling the world of the crimes that bill and hillary clinton are responsible for in haiti .
haitians like andre may sound a bit strident , but he and the protesters had good reason to be disgruntled .
they had suffered a heavy blow from mother nature , and now it appeared that they were being battered again this time by the clintons .
their story goes back to 2010 , when a massive 7.0 earthquake devastated the island , killing more than 200,000 people , leveling 100,000 homes , and leaving 1.5 million people destitute.the devastating effect of the earthquake on a very poor nation provoked worldwide concern and inspired an outpouring of aid money intended to rebuild haiti .
countries around the world , as well as private and philanthropic groups such as the red cross and the salvation army , provided some $ 10.5 billion in aid , with $ 3.9 billion of it coming from the united states.haitians such as andre , however , noticed that very little of this aid money actually got to poor people in haiti .
some projects championed by the clintons , such as the building of industrial parks and posh hotels , cost a great deal of money and offered scarce benefits to the truly needy .
port-au-prince was supposed to be rebuilt ; it was never rebuilt .
projects aimed at creating jobs proved to be bitter disappointments .
haitian unemployment remained high , largely undented by the funds that were supposed to pour into the country .
famine and illness continued to devastate the island nation.the haitians were initially sympathetic to the clintons .
one may say they believed in the message of hope and change .
with his customary overstatement , bill told the media , wouldn t it be great if they become the first wireless nation in the world ?
they could , i m telling you , they really could .
i don t blame the haitians for falling for it ; bill is one of the world s greatest story-tellers .
he has fooled people far more sophisticated than the poor haitians .
over time , however , the haitians wised up .
whatever their initial expectations , many saw that much of the aid money seems never to have reached its destination ; rather , it disappeared along the way.where did it go ?
it did not escape the attention of the haitians that bill clinton was the designated un representative for aid to haiti .
following the earthquake , bill clinton had with media fanfare established the haiti reconstruction fund .
meanwhile , his wife hillary was the united states secretary of state .
she was in charge of u.s. aid allocated to haiti .
together the clintons were the two most powerful people who controlled the flow of funds to haiti from around the world.bill and hillary weren t the only ones profiting off the devastation of poor haitians .
this video shows how hillary s brother cashed in on a lucrative gold-mining permit in haiti : an unusual nexus of mining interests , relief work in haiti , and a former u.s. first family is raising new ethics questions that could affect hillary clinton s presidential ambitions.clinton s brother , tony rodham , was a board member of a north carolina mining company that enjoyed prime access to haitian gold deposits in the wake of post-earthquake relief work organized in part by former president bill clinton through the clinton foundation.another board member of the firm , vcs mining , was former haitian prime minister jean-max bellerive , who co-chaired the charitable interim haiti recovery commission with mr. clinton.https : //youtu.be/nls4simqfv8the haitian protesters noticed an interesting pattern involving the clintons and the designation of how aid funds were used .
they observed that a number of companies that received contracts in haiti happened to be entities that made large donations to the clinton foundation .
the haitian contracts appeared less tailored to the needs of haiti than to the needs of the companies that were performing the services .
in sum , haitian deals appeared to be a quid pro quo for filling the coffers of the clintons .
for example , the clinton foundation selected clayton homes , a construction company owned by warren buffett s berkshire hathaway , to build temporary shelters in haiti .
buffett is an active member of the clinton global initiative who has donated generously to the clintons as well as the clinton foundation .
the contract was supposed to be given through the normal united nations bidding process , with the deal going to the lowest bidder who met the project s standards .
un officials said , however , that the contract was never competitively bid for.clayton offered to build hurricane-proof trailers but what they actually delivered turned out to be a disaster .
the trailers were structurally unsafe , with high levels of formaldehyde and insulation coming out of the walls .
there were problems with mold and fumes .
the stifling heat inside made haitians sick and many of them abandoned the trailers because they were ill-constructed and unusable.the clintons also funneled $ 10 million in federal loans to a firm called innovida , headed by clinton donor claudio osorio .
osorio had loaded its board with clinton cronies , including longtime clinton ally general wesley clark ; hillary s 2008 finance director jonathan mantz ; and democratic fundraiser chris korge who has helped raise millions for the clintons .
normally the loan approval process takes months or even years .
but in this case , a government official wrote , former president bill clinton is personally in contact with the company to organize its logistical and support needs .
and as secretary of state , hillary clinton has made available state department resources to assist with logistical arrangements .
innovida had not even provided an independently audited financial report that is normally a requirement for such applications .
this requirement , however , was waived .
on the basis of the clinton connection , innovida s application was fast-tracked and approved in two weeks .
the company , however , defaulted on the loan and never built any houses.an investigation revealed that osorio had diverted company funds to pay for his miami beach mansion , his maserati , and his colorado ski chalet .
he pleaded guilty to wire fraud and money laundering in 2013 , and is currently serving a twelve-year prison term on fraud charges related to the loan .
several clinton cronies showed up with bill to a 2011 housing expo that cost more than $ 2 million to stage .
bill clinton said it would be a model for the construction of thousands of homes in haiti .
in reality , no homes have been built .
a few dozen model units were constructed but even they have not been sold .
rather , they are now abandoned and have been taken over by squatters.the schools they never built usaid contracts to remove debris in port-au-prince went to a washington-based company named chf international .
the company s ceo david weiss , a campaign contributor to hillary in 2008 , was deputy u.s. trade representative for north american affairs during the clinton administration .
the corporate secretary of the board , lauri fitz-pegado , served in a number of posts in the clinton administration , including assistant secretary of commerce.the clintons claim to have built schools in haiti .
but the new york times discovered that when it comes to the clintons , built is a term with a very loose interpretation .
for example , the newspaper located a school featured in the clinton founation annual report as built through a clinton global initiative commitment to action .
in reality , the clinton foundation s sole direct contribution to the school was a grant for an earth day celebration and tree-building activity .
via : national review