mexico city ( reuters ) - the school collapse this week that killed at least 19 children during an earthquake has prompted many mexicans to question whether building codes developed after a devastating 1985 temblor are too easily flouted .
stringent codes enacted after a massive temblor killed thousands three decades ago minimized damage this week across the metropolis of 20 million people , even if experts say it is nearly impossible to design structures to withstand any quake .
at least 293 people died in tuesday s quake , measuring 7.1 on the richter scale , but the toll could have been far worse .
still , the collapse of some structures built under the new codes , including the enrique rebsamen school that became a symbol of this week s tragedy , has sparked concerns over implementation of the rules .
there are still gaps that mean new buildings don t always fully comply , said roberto meli piralla , a structural engineer and expert on seismic preparedness at the national autonomous university of mexico .
it is too early to know if code violations , neglect or corruption were factors in the collapse of the school or about 50 other buildings in mexico city .
yet engineers said that challenges remain in enforcing the codes uniformly and ensuring that builders , inspectors and property owners follow approved plans .
inspectors can be criminally liable if a building they ok proves structurally unsound .
the mayor of the district where the school is located said her office has been unable to find documentation to assess its construction and structural history .
she blamed problems , including corruption , on a predecessor administration .
when we came into office , there were many files missing , said claudia sheinbaum , the mayor of the tlalpan district .
she said she had no proof that corruption had anything to do with the collapse .
before the quake , municipal officials were already discussing revisions to strengthen code oversight , said piralla , who is part of an engineering group that made recommendations to the city in recent weeks .
one suggestion , according to another engineer involved in the discussions , was to have an independent , third-party review of designs before inspectors sign off on them .
the secretariat for housing and urban development , the municipal office that oversees the code , could not be reached for comment .
even if compliance were universal , engineers said , there is no way to fully prepare because earthquakes vary widely .
tuesday s temblor generated a different frequency of shockwave from the 1985 quake and toppled mid-sized buildings of roughly six to eight stories , compared with towers of about 12 to 15 floors in 1985 .
it s not possible to say what problems could have been foreseen , said antonio gallardo , a member of the board of architects in mexico city , a council that upholds professional standards across the capital .
most of the damage on tuesday happened in central and southern districts where soils are less solid than in northern neighborhoods , and urban development , even after improvements in recent decades , is still patchwork .
although the toppled buildings are still being investigated , some were built after the 1987 code , which has periodically been revised since .
at the school , which is in southern mexico city , the older of two structures remained standing while a newer building collapsed .
it was built early last decade and opened in 2004 , according to several people familiar with its history .
the school is a private facility founded in the 1980s by the family that runs it , according to two adult former students .
the principal , a daughter of the founders , lived in an apartment that was part of the collapsed structure .
she survived the quake , current and former students said .
neither the principal nor other family members could be reached for comment .
but local authorities , neighbors and parents are demanding answers .
who could have approved this school ?
asked raul d az , a doctor whose 7-year-old son , eduardo , died at the school .
the building was poorly built .
if prior quakes are any guide , investigations and a full accounting will take years .
but experts said it would be impossible to build structures that could withstand all quakes .
there is always going to be a degree of uncertainty , said mary comerio , a professor of architecture and researcher on disaster recovery at the university of california at berkeley .
she cited the 2011 earthquake that leveled even costly , modern structures in christchurch , new zealand .
the extent of a phenomenon known as liquefaction , in which solid soil behaves like a liquid , surprised scientists .
notwithstanding architectural advances , many other variables come into play including human error , ground conditions , the location , depth and force of an earthquake .
in 2006 , comerio authored a paper in the journal science called can buildings be made earthquake-safe ?
the answer is largely no , she said .