harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwean police arrested activist pastor evan mawarire of the # thisflag movement as he stepped down from his pulpit , accusing him of subversion for a series of social media posts that charged robert mugabe s government had wrecked the economy , his lawyer told reuters on sunday .
lawyer harrison nkomo said mawarire was arrested and charged with subversion , which carries a maximum term of life imprisonment , for a facebook video he posted on saturday lambasting the government over its economic policies .
over the last few days , shortages of basic goods and fuel have emerged , resulting in panic buying by consumers .
prices of imported products are also going up , which businesses blame on shortages of foreign exchange .
mawarire has been at the heart of a protest movement against mugabe s 37-year rule .
in 2016 , he led a stay-at-home demonstration that resulted in the first of his now three arrests for what the state says are attempts to overthrow the government .
mawarire was already due to face trial of subversion over the 2016 protests at a high court trial on monday .
he is due to appear in court tomorrow on subversion charges emanating from last year .
so we really don t know how the state will proceed , said nkomo .
press and social media reports , including mawarire s post , on shortages of basic goods and foreign exchange were meant to cause alarm in the country , said ignatius chombo , minister of home affairs , the ministry in charge of the police , said in a statement .
government is closely monitoring the press and social media reports in question with a view to taking decisive action to deal a telling blow to the perpetrators of the crime in terms of the laws of the country s justice system , chombo said .
a statement on the website of the united states embassy in harare published on friday said it would be monitoring the pastor s trial , and called for an end to arbitrary arrests and intimidation for political purposes .
mugabe , 93 , has held power since independence from britain in 1980 .
he is under mounting pressure from angry zimbabweans , as well as his war veterans allies , who last year rebuked him as a manipulative dictator and called for him to step down .