kathmandu ( reuters ) - nepalis vote on sunday to choose a new parliament and seven state assemblies hoping to end years of fickle coalitions and complete a tumultuous transition , more than a decade after the end of a civil war .
the two-phase election is also expected to determine the path the country takes in balancing ties with china and india , both of whom are pushing hard to expand influence in the buffer state .
prime minister sher bahadur deuba s centrist nepali congress party faces a tight battle against a left alliance between the main group of maoist former rebels and the opposition communist uml party .
about 15.4 million eligible voters are tasked to pick a 275-member parliament - 165 through first-past-the-post and 110 through proportional representation - the first under a new constitution agreed after years of wrangling .
simultaneously , voters will choose representatives to seven provincial assemblies for the first time after nepal turned into a federal republic and abolished monarchy in 2008 .
these elections will firmly put the country on the path of stability and prosperity , deuba , the country s tenth prime minister in as many years , told reuters .
counting of votes will begin after the second round of polling on dec 7 and complete results may not be known until the middle of december because of cumbersome counting procedures .
political analysts say that the left alliance is likely to open up the country further to chinese investments if they were to come to power in the election .
already , the uml has said it would hand back the country s biggest hydro-electric project to china after the deuba-government , seen as more pro-india , canceled the deal citing lapses in the contract .
our government will revoke the decision after the election , uml general secretary ishwar pokharel said , adding there was nothing wrong in the $ 2.5 billion deal with china gezhouba group corporation to build a 1,200 megawatt plant .
soon after the cancellation of the deal , the chairman of indian state-run power company nhpc ltd said it could bid for the project , underlining delhi s attempts to claw back ground in a country which it has long considered its backyard .
the performance of the two largest communist parties in the elections could determine the course of chinese investment in infrastructure projects in nepal , said guna raj luintel , editor of the nagarik daily .
in march , nepal received letters of intent worth $ 8.4 billion from chinese investors compared with $ 300 million received from indian delegates at an investment summit , officials said .
deuba s nepali congress has struck a loose-knit alliance with ethnic madhesi minority groups who live in the southern plains and have long complained of being sidelined by the kathmandu-based main political parties .
madhesis account for one third of nepal s 28 million people and deuba has promised to amend the constitution to address their grievances if the alliance won the election .
aid and tourism dependent nepal , recovering from a devastating earthquake that killed 9,000 people in 2015 , is among the world s poorest .
the economy , which saw zero growth last year due to instability and the earthquake , is expected to expand by 6.9 percent this year because of improved power supply and agricultural production , officials said .