janesville , wisc .
( reuters ) - semi-retired wisconsin pig farmer john lader does not think much of donald trump as a messenger , but voted for what he described as the republican president-elect ’ s message of change and economic hope for america .
“ the last few years , there hasn ’ t been much optimism and hope among working people in rural areas in this country , ” said lader , 65 , who lives in the farmland outside the southern wisconsin city of janesville .
around 65 miles ( 105 km ) to the northeast in the state ’ s biggest city of milwaukee , jose boni , who cleans offices at a local university and rents out several homes , heard a different message : trump ’ s plan to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border and vow to deport the estimated 11 million immigrants who are in the united states illegally , most of whom are hispanic .
“ he doesn ’ t care about our community or working people , he only cares about himself , ” said boni , 57 , an ecuador-born u.s. citizen .
the different worlds of lader and boni help illustrate the rural-urban divide that was critical to the outcome of tuesday ’ s u.s. presidential election .
a country once defined by regional voting now is more clearly divided by the differences between rural and urban voters .
the combination of a strong trump turnout in the countryside and a weak showing by democrat clinton in the cities went a long way toward deciding the election .
rural and small-town working-class white voters , who already tended to vote republican , propelled trump .
urban areas , where black and hispanic voters are concentrated along with college-educated voters , already leaned toward the democrats , but clinton did not get the turnout from these groups that she needed .
for instance , black voters did not show up in the same numbers they did for barack obama , the first black president , in 2008 and 2012 .
trump beat clinton by 26 percentage points among voters who live in non-metropolitan areas , while clinton bested trump by about 7 percentage points in urban areas , according to the nationwide reuters/ipsos national election day poll .
steven schier , a political science professor at carleton college in northfield , minnesota , said rural voters “ feel they ’ ve lost something , that america is moving away from them. ” “ trump came up with the perfect slogan for them in ‘ make america great again ’ because it hits them exactly where they live , ” schier said .
democratic presidential candidates had won in wisconsin in every election since 1988 , until trump ’ s victory on tuesday .
in wisconsin , overall turnout was lower than in the 2012 presidential election .
trump actually was a few hundred votes shy of 2012 republican nominee mitt romney ’ s total in the state , but clinton was around 240,000 votes short of obama ’ s 2012 tally .
she ended up around 24,000 votes behind trump in the state .
“ those couple hundred thousand democratic voters for whatever reason decided not to vote , ” mordecai lee , a political scientist at the university of wisconsin-milwaukee .
“ they stayed home , and wisconsin went republican .
i think that was the pattern around the country. ” turnout in milwaukee ’ s hispanic neighborhoods was down 9 percent versus 2012 , while citywide turnout in milwaukee fell 14 percent .
clinton took 65.6 percent in milwaukee county , which includes the city , to trump ’ s 28.6 percent .
but trump won in rural counties , for example taking 59.9 percent to clinton ’ s 33.6 percent in fond du lac county in the middle of the state and 71.4 percent to 25.1 percent in florence county in the far north .
in milwaukee , election day canvassers found trump ’ s comments about immigrants were not enough to get people to the polls .
christine neumann-ortiz , director of community group voces de la frontera , said about 15 percent of the voters reached by the group in milwaukee raised concerns about clinton ’ s use of a private email server while secretary of state or were undecided .
“ if we reached people , we were able to convince them to vote , but i don ’ t think we could ever have reached enough by ourselves to overcome trump ’ s advantage with white working-class voters , ” neumann-ortiz said .
the rural landscape was rich trump territory , with people concerned about a slump in commodity prices and layoffs among manufacturers .
rural areas , especially in the midwest and northeast , have also seen a demographic shift in recent years with the arrival of hispanic immigrants .
demographer william frey of the brookings institution think tank in washington said census data from 2008 to 2015 showed hispanic populations in non-metro counties in the midwest rose 18 percent while the white population fell 9 percent .
the counties still are 84 percent white , but those voters are feeling the change , frey said .
“ they ’ re a little bit fearful of it , and if they ’ re being hit hard economically , that can add to it , ” frey added .
austin arndt , a beef cattle farmer and neighbor of john lader outside janesville , hometown of republican speaker of the u.s. house of representatives paul ryan , said his vote was more against clinton than for trump .
he said his vote was based on trump ’ s promise to cut taxes and repeal obama ’ s signature 2010 healthcare law , which has enabled millions of previously uninsured americans to gain medical coverage but is detested by conservatives as a government overreach .
“ from the social point of view as candidates , they were both terrible people , ” said arndt , 33 .
“ for me , it was all about the economics . ”