bangkok ( reuters ) - a thai criminal court on monday said it would proceed to determine whether it would hear a case in a 14 billion baht ( $ 423 million ) lawsuit brought against thai duty-free giant king power international , the company that owns english premier league football club leicester city .
the central criminal court for corruption and misconduct cases in bangkok said it would look into the allegations made in the lawsuit to determine whether there was a case to be heard , and would review the list of potential evidence and witnesses in february ahead of preliminary hearings .
charnchai issarasenanark , at the time an anti-graft official , filed the suit in a private capacity in july against the duty-free retailer , which is owned by billionaire vichai srivaddhanaprabha and his family .
the committee of which charnchai was a member has since become defunct as part of the military government s plan to restore democracy .
the suit accuses king power of criminally failing to pay the thai government 14 billion baht from the operation of the airport franchise it was granted in 2006 .
the suit was also brought against executives from the state-owned airport operator , airports of thailand ( aot ) .
in a statement on monday , king power said : the allegations in question have yet to be accepted by the court and are categorically denied .
king power has always followed and been absolutely committed to the highest standards in proper and ethical business practice .
we are proud of our company s good name and honest reputation and will fight rigorously any attempts to discredit them .
the aot was not immediately available for comment .
self-made businessman vichai founded king power in 1989 .
the duty-free business took off in 2006 when it was granted an airport monopoly under the government of then prime minister thaksin shinawatra , but it continued to prosper even after thaksin s ouster in a coup that year .
vichai bought leicester city in august 2010 .
the family s empire also includes belgian football club , oud-heverlee leuven , accor s pullman hotels in thailand and a controlling stake in asia aviation pcl , operator of low-cost carrier thai airasia .