who could forget mitt romney s second and third debates with barack obama ?
after the first debate , most americans were pretty sure that mitt had successfully exposed barack as the amateur that he is .
but something strange and unexpected happened when mitt came back for round two .
either he was given bad advice , or he just decided he really didn t want to be president after all .
whatever the case , the next two debates for mitt were abysmal .
he clearly rolled over and played dead , while barack , with the help of his co-debater candy crowley , lied to the american people , as mitt stood by idly and never uttered a single objection .
that was the night mitt passed on the keys to the white house in favor of civility .
sorry america , but civility doesn t work with the left who has shown a clear pattern of winning at all cost no matter the consequences america is counting on trump to use every resource available to take down hillary in the first debate .
if hillary enabled her husband to prey on , rape or to use his position as president of the united states to gain sexual favors in the oval office , we expect trump to bring it up .
we also expect him to answer to all of the women who claimed hillary threatened them if they spoke out against her perve if hillary really is the champion of women that she claims to be , she should be ready and willing to defend herself .
please trump , we beg of you don t pull a romney !
it s up to hillary clinton whether or not the first presidential debate ends up including an exchange over her husband s white house affair with monica lewinsky , republican donald trump said monday night .
i don t think i m looking to do that , trump told fox news host bill o reilly when asked whether he was planning to bring up the affair something trump raised in media interviews during the primaries .
i don t know what i m going to do that exactly .
it depends on what level she hits you with , if she s fair , if it s unfair , trump said .
but certainly i m not looking to do that .
trump , who slashed through his gop opponents one-by-one in televised debates during the primaries , said he ll decide on the spot whether to launch personal attacks on hillary clinton based on whether she treats him with respect .
i have absolutely no idea .
i think this .
if she treats me with respect , i will treat her with respect .
it really depends , trump said.watch here : https : //youtu.be/bnltdalfuum people ask me that question , oh you re going to go out there and do this and that .
i really don t know that .
you re going to have to feel it out when you re out there .
she s got to treat me with respect .
i m going to treat her with respect .
i d like to start off by saying that because that would be my intention , he said.one longtime clinton advisor isn t so sure trump will unilaterally disarm when it comes to lewinsky .
you can t put it beyond trump that monica lewinsky will play a role in this debate , former clinton and white house counsel greg craig told politico in august .
she s got to be prepared to deal with the [ clinton ] foundation and wall street and super pacs and all of that .
they need to be less focused on dealing with his policy proposals and more on dealing with the unexpected .
he s going to be in attack mode , probably the whole time , craig said.at several stages in the campaign , trump has brought up lewinsky , bill clinton rape accuser juanita broderick , whitewater , the death of former clinton aide vince foster , and other 90s era scandals and allegations .
via : daily mail