melbourne ( reuters ) - an australian conservative politician on monday proposed to his long-term partner on the floor of parliament , ahead of the expected passage of a measure for same sex couples to marry .
australians overwhelmingly voted for same-sex marriage in a postal vote in september and a marriage equality bill that passed the senate last week is being debated in the lower house , where it is expected to pass this week .
liberal member of parliament tim wilson proposed to his partner ryan bolger in the capital of canberra , the two having already exchanged rings but having pledged to wait for the country to pass the legislation before they wed .
this debate has been the soundtrack to our relationship , an emotional wilson said to his partner , seated in parliament s public viewing area above .
in our first speech i defined our bond by the ring that sits on both of our left hands , that they are the answer to the question we can not ask .
so there s only one thing left to do - ryan patrick bolger , will you marry me ?
asked wilson , who was formerly australia s human rights commissioner .
bolger nodded yes , to applause .
both prime minister malcolm turnbull s liberal-national coalition government and the main opposition labor party have said they aim to pass the law by dec. 7 , but any proposed amendments could stretch out that timeline .
passage of the bill will make australia the 26th nation to legalize same-sex marriage , a watershed for a country in which some states considered homosexual activity illegal until 1997 .
this is an issue of fundamental fairness , turnbull said to parliament later on monday .
a society that promotes freedom and equality under the law should accord gay men and women the right to marriage .
about 80 percent of eligible voters participated in the voluntary survey , a turnout larger than for britain s brexit vote and ireland s same-sex marriage referendum .
the message today , to every gay person in this nation , is clear , turnbull added .
we love you , we respect you , your relationship is recognized by the commonwealth as legitimate and honorable as anybody else s .