johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s supreme court of appeal ( sca ) will hear the state s appeal against the six-year murder sentence handed to paralympic gold medallist oscar pistorius on nov. 3 , the national prosecuting authority ( npa ) said on tuesday .
the state will argue that six years in jail is too lenient a sentence for the murder by pistorius of reeva steenkamp , his girlfriend , in 2013 .
the state , in the papers , we stipulate clearly that the sentence imposed is shockingly low , said npa spokesman luvuyo mfaku .
the presiding officer has the discretion to deviate from the minimum prescribed sentence when compelling and substantial circumstances exist .
but ... with this matter , the presiding officer exercised that discretion in a very lenient manner .
women s rights groups in a country beset by high levels of violent crime against women say pistorius has received preferential treatment compared to non-whites and those without his wealth or international celebrity status .
the sca told state prosecutors and the defence in november that they would need to argue their cases in court before it would rule on the matter .
state prosecutors , led by advocate gerrie nel , say the sentence was too lenient as the jail term was less than half the 15 years they had sought .
in his arguments at the trial , nel said pistorius had shown no remorse for the 2013 shooting .
lawyers for the gold medallist , known as the blade runner for his carbon-fibre prosthetics , say he did not deliberately kill model and law graduate steenkamp .
the athlete was originally convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to five years in jail .
that conviction was increased to murder by the sca in december 2015 and his sentence increased to six years by trial judge thokozile masipa .
she dismissed in august 2016 a request by nel to appeal pistorius sentence , saying she was not persuaded that there was a reasonable prospect of success at another court .
nel then launched his case at the sca , in bloemfontein , 400 km ( 250 miles ) southwest of johannesburg .