when sen. al franken ( d-mn ) announced his plans to resign thursday , he specifically called out donald trump over the access hollywood video and roy moore , an alleged pedophile who is running for the senate seat in alabama with the gop s blessing .
donald trump jr. , not known for being a brainiac , decided to mock franken on twitter as if he didn t listen to the democrat s amazing speech .
junior invoked one of the former comedian s saturday night live most well-known characters , writing , because i m good enough , i m smart enough , and god-darnit people like me and included the hashtag # franken .
because i m good enough , i m smart enough , and god-darnit people like me .
# franken donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) december 7 , 2017twitter gave junior a wake-up call : pic.twitter.com/nmurm5mgmz liberalgranny50 ( @ peppersandeggs ) december 7 , 2017i am sure daddy @ realdonaldtrump can sympathize as he is a fellow sexual predator pic.twitter.com/qesftp1u28 matt slavin ( @ themattslavin ) december 7 , 2017 grab em by the pussy .
donald trump .
mrs. smh ( @ mrssmh2 ) december 7 , 2017did you wear a diaper when you tweeted this ?
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) december 7 , 2017 and when you re a star , they let you do it .
you can do anything .
grab em by the pussy .
your dad aaron rupar ( @ atrupar ) december 7 , 2017your father is a rapist .
ask your mom if you don t believe me.also : you ll be in prison this time next year , traitor .
greg olear ( @ gregolear ) december 7 , 2017this is coming from donald i do not recall trump jr. rep. jackie sharp ( @ jackiesharp ) december 7 , 2017can t wait to tweet joke about you when you go to prison .
pic.twitter.com/jajolbyqc6 american dad ( @ okiedokiepokey ) december 7 , 2017pic.twitter.com/zb2kijzxk1 meghan morris ( @ seaghost78 ) december 7 , 2017 i moved on her actually .
you know she was down on palm beach .
i moved on her and i failed .
i ll admit it .
i did try and fuck her .
she was married .
your dad # franken # 25thamendmentnow lesley abravanel ( @ lesleyabravanel ) december 7 , 2017calm down fredo , go shoot a sedated animal or something , it s what you re good at .
motive of christmas past ( @ falsemotive ) december 7 , 2017yes , jr , your father ( sexual predator ) such a shining example to your 2 daughters .
nothing in the world like first rate p * ssy he said .
cantblameobamaanymor ( @ drrev_mustafa1 ) december 7 , 2017franken said during his speech , i , of all people , am aware that there is some irony in the fact that i am leaving while a man who has bragged on tape about his history of sexual assault sits in the oval office and a man who has repeatedly preyed on young girls campaigns for the senate with the full support of his party .
trump and moore support each other.photo by jeff vinnick/getty images