new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton ’ s probability of winning the white house got a modest bump in online betting markets on tuesday , a day after her debate with republican donald trump .
the price for a contract favoring clinton on the popular predictit betting market was up 2 cents from monday ’ s post-debate closing and implied a 68 percent probability that she would win the nov. 8 election .
although during the debate clinton was as high as 70 percent , her monday night closing of 66 matched the highest closing number since her health took a stumble on sept. 11 .
a pro-trump contract on tuesday indicated his probability for victory was 34 percent .
trading in both contracts remained brisk on the heels of the first of three debates .
predictit contracts are priced from 0 to 100 cents , with the contract price equating to a probability a candidate will win the election .
initially , the price swings for both candidates were the largest since early august , though a substantial portion of clinton ’ s gain and trump ’ s fall had been retraced by early afternoon on tuesday .
the swing following the debate put the brakes on a big trump price rally on predictit that coincided with a tightening in most public opinion polls .
on predictit , the implied probability of him winning had risen to 38 percent heading into the debate from 28 percent at the end of august .
clinton ’ s prospects also showed comparable improvement on betting sites based in ireland and the united kingdom .
uk-based betfair called the debate for clinton based on odds movements on its platform , where more than 3 million pounds were bet during the event .
the implied probability of a clinton win in november climbed to 69 percent on betfair , the strongest it has been since her prospects took a hit over her pneumonia diagnosis this month .
trump ’ s probability fell to 30 percent from 37 percent .
on ireland ’ s paddypower , clinton ’ s odds also had shortened , or improved , to 2-to-5 from 1-to-2 in the early moments of monday ’ s debate .
trump ’ s odds , which initially lengthened following the debate , had shortened modestly to 2-to-1 .