berlin ( reuters ) - austria s new chancellor , sebastian kurz , called for an end to failed attempts to achieve a quota system for distributing asylum seekers around the european union and urged new efforts to help refugees in their country of origin .
when he was foreign minister , kurz , a conservative now governing in coalition with the far-right freedom party , was a strong critic of chancellor angela merkel s decision to open germany s borders to more than a million fleeing migrants in 2015 .
since becoming chancellor this week , he has aligned himself with central european neighbors like hungary and the czech republic in opposing german-backed proposals to distribute asylum seekers around eu member states .
forcing states to take refugees doesn t take europe any further .
the discussion makes no sense , he told germany s bild am sonntag newspaper .
migrants who set off for europe don t want to go to bulgaria or hungary .
they want to go to germany , austria or sweden .
instead of doubling down on what he termed a failed policy , kurz called for the eu to support , perhaps militarily , efforts to help migrants in their countries of origin or in neighboring states .
if that isn t possible , then they should be helped in safe areas on their own continent , he said .
the eu should support that , perhaps even organize it , and back it militarily .
it was not clear from the interview extracts , published by the newspaper , what kind of military support he envisaged .
but european leaders have on occasion suggested the eu contribute to peacekeeping operations to stabilize conflicts in africa .
the question of how to deal with streams of migrants fleeing war and poverty in the middle east and africa also divides merkel s conservatives and the social democrats ( spd ) as they prepare for talks on forming a new government .
hard-line members of merkel s conservative camp demand tight absolute caps on the numbers of refugees allowed to enter germany each year , while a senior spd official on saturday suggested local authorities around europe be paid to house refugees .