quicken loans owner , dan gilbert is one of the most beloved business owners in the state of mi .
their headquarters are located in the city of detroit ( where people in the suburbs don t typically travel unless they have to ) .
owner , dan gilbert gives back to the city of detroit and to its residents in a huge way , not the least of which is employing over 7,000 people in their detroit offices .
in 2014 , fortune magazine named quicken loans a top 5 place to work for the 11th straight year .
when asked what made quicken loans such a great place to work , fortune gave this answer : america s largest online-lending company offers cash incentives to its staff to move to downtown detroit .
according to salary.com , mortgage bankers in southeast michigan average $ 50,000 a year , but those at quicken earn $ 113,000 .
none of that matters to a corrupt government however , who has a history of shaking down banks .
this time however , the goons in our justice department may have targeted the wrong business owner.detroit s own quicken loans is the latest target of the justice department s shakedown of the nation s lenders.justice s goons have been systematically extorting protection money from big banks and mortgage lenders , under the threat of federal fraud lawsuits and prison time for their executives.the department s modus operandi would be worthy of racketeering charges if carried out by civilian mobsters.first , the obama administration whips up a blame-the-banks fervor after the financial collapse .
then , armed with federal fraud statutes adopted after the savings and loan meltdown in the 1980s , it scours the transactions of lenders to find hints of irregularities .
it extrapolates from the skimpiest evidence a pattern of widespread abuse , and if needed , frightens insiders into coughing up creative accusations against their employers.with its proof in hand , justice presents institutions with a choice pay a large and painful fine to make the investigation go away , or try their luck at a jury trial in an environment in which the words bankers and baby killers register about the same revulsion.the nation s six largest banks have all crumbled , choosing to pay $ 136 billion in fines and admit their wrongdoing rather than get their legs broken.quicken , owned by dan gilbert , has decided not to cower , at least for the moment .
instead of paying protection money , it filed a lawsuit to stop a three-year investigation .
thursday , the government responded by filing charges against quicken , accusing it of submitting ineligible mortgages for fha insurance.in its complaint , quicken says justice demanded a multi-billion dollar settlement based on a sampling of just 55 of the 246,000 loans issued .
defects , according to the lawsuit , include miscalculating a borrower s income by $ 17 and lending another $ 26 too much .
in those meager mistakes , justice sees systemic fraud.trace evidence is all the obama administration requires to put banks on the rack .
to cinch a settlement , justice adds the threat of criminal charges against individual executives.quicken s lawsuit accuses the government of investigating and pressuring large , high-profile lenders into paying nine- and 10-figure sums and publicly admitting wrongdoing , including conceding that the lenders had made false claims .
that s an exellent summary of justice s racket.requiring a public admission of wrongdoing , instead of allowing institutions to settle without acknowledging guilt , as is common practice , leaves open the possibility of future criminal action against executives , assuring that they don t squawk publicly.gilbert is a different cat than justice has crossed on wall street .
detroit street tough , he doesn t take to being bullied .
of course , the government has a lot of pressure points it can mash .
gilbert is in the gaming business , a highly regulated industry , and the administration is not above targeting his casinos.but i hope he hangs in there .
this government has gone gangster , and unless someone takes a stand , it won t be just the big bankers who get pinched.via : nolan finley , detroit news