paris ( reuters ) - malian soldiers killed by a french military strike in northern mali last month were deserters who had joined an islamist militant group , a french source close to the matter said on tuesday .
that contradicted comments from the malian defense ministry , which said on monday that the soldiers killed in the oct. 23 strike , a raid on a camp of the ansar dine militant group , had been its hostages .
the french source said the raid was carried out on the basis of detailed intelligence against a camp that included malians who had joined the islamist ranks .
they were hit , amongst others .
they were not prisoners , the source told reuters , declining to say how many were killed or captured in the raid .
the source accused malian authorities of spreading propaganda in the run-up to a presidential election scheduled for november 2018 .
a french defense ministry source added : we have a real trust problem with the malians .
malian officials were not immediately available for comment .
the french army said in a later statement that the head of its barkhane operation , general bruno guibert , had spoken with his malian counterpart on tuesday to update him on information it said showed the stricken camp was unmistakably used as a training camp for terrorists .
this research has at no point shown the presence on this site of malian soldiers , whether captured or hired by the terrorist group , the statement said , adding that the french army was ready to help mali if it wanted to send to the site a mission to gather information .
the french army previously said that 15 members of ansar dine , which is loosely affiliated to other militant groups operating in northern mali , were taken out of action in the raid .
the malian government is struggling to contain tuareg and islamist violence in northern mali , some of which is spreading south .
attempts to place officials in northern towns have sometimes failed , raising questions about the government s ability to maintain stability ahead of the election .
islamist militants seized northern mali in 2012 and french forces intervened a year later .
around 4,000 of its troops remain in west africa s sahel region as part of operation barkhane , a cross-border anti-terrorism operation .
france has also been at the forefront of organizing a regional force as part of efforts to find a long-term strategy to exit the region .