alleged bill clinton sexual victim juanita broderick hit back after chelsea clinton complained that her parents were always being attacked and is some sort of tradition .
her parents being attacked is a tradition ?
what about your father s victims of sexual assault ?
is that some sort of tradition ? following the debate , trump told the press that he was holding back on bringing up bill clinton s sexual predator history out of respect for chelsea being in the audience.chelsea , who apparently is okay with her father receiving oral sex in the oval office , and her mother berating and threatening his alleged sexual abuse victims , had this to say about trump : it s a distraction from his inability to talk about what s actually at stake in this election and to offer concrete , comprehensive proposals about the economy , or our public school system , or debt-free college , or keeping our country safe and americans safe here at home and around the world .
and candidly , i don t remember a time in my life when my parents and my family weren t being attacked , and so it just sort of seems to be in that tradition , unfortunately .
juanita broderick hit back after chelsea s disgusting flippant attitude about a woman who claims ( one of many who have bravely come forward to expose bill clinton after being sexually assaulted by him ) she was raped by her father:1 .
here is my response to chelsea clinton 's statement about her father 's sexual misdeeds juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 28 , 20162 .
chelsea you said you do n't remember a time in your life that your parents were n't being attacked .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 28 , 20163 .
there 's a very good reason for this your parents are not good people .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 28 , 20164 your father was , and probably still is , a sexual predator .
your mother has always lied and covered up for him .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 28 , 20165 .
i say again `` i was 35 when bill clinton raped me and hillary tried to silence me .
i am now 73 .
it never goes away '' .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 28 , 2016here s the vile way people who are supporting the female candidate for president responded : another foul mouth .
and he 's from canada .
pic.twitter.com/nmnjiifcmz juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 30 , 2016and this one wants me beaten pic.twitter.com/rckpuyuroz juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 30 , 2016now this idiot is saying i have been in prison .
pic.twitter.com/ymhkb1i1kb juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) september 30 , 2016