valletta ( reuters ) - the son of malta s best-known investigative journalist said on tuesday his mother had been killed by a car bomb because of her work exposing political corruption , as hundreds of people demonstrated to demand justice after her death .
daphne caruana galizia , who wrote about graft across malta s political divides on her blog , died when explosives ripped through her car minutes after she left her home in the north of the island on monday afternoon .
maltese authorities were waiting for the arrival of dutch forensic experts and american fbi agents to help the investigations .
my mother was assassinated because she stood between the rule of law and those who sought to violate it , like many strong journalists , matthew caruana galizia said on facebook .
she was also targeted because she was the only person doing so , he added .
he described rushing to the scene , only to find the burning car and her remains .
maltese prime minister joseph muscat , who was accused of wrong-doing by caruana galizia earlier this year and had been suing her over some of her allegations , denounced her killing and pledged to track down those responsible .
but a small group booed muscat on tuesday evening when he left his office , and the opposition is calling for him to resign .
the prime minister and his government have been responsible for diminishing the rule of law in malta , opposition leader adrian delia told reuters .
they have created an environment where people are afraid to speak out .
on tuesday afternoon , several hundred people demonstrated in front of the law courts demanding justice for caruana galizia s killers .
the state did not defend daphne , shouted andrew borg cardona , addressing the crowd .
he said those who accused her of going over the top with her investigations are all guilty .
one woman carried a votive lamp with the murdered journalist s picture in it and another carried a sign that read looks like we can t have freedom of speech but we want justice .
recently , caruana galizia had been following up leads from information in the so-called panama papers , a large collection of documents from an offshore law firm in the central american nation that were leaked in 2015 .
she was tracing alleged links between maltese officials and offshore banks and companies used as tax havens .
half an hour before the explosion , caruana galizia wrote on her blog : there are crooks everywhere you look now .
the situation is desperate .
the european commission told journalists it was horrified by the murder in the bloc s smallest state and called for justice .
spokesman margaritis schinas was asked if the commission would open a procedure to check if malta was meeting the eu s standards for the rule of law , a process now being applied to poland over judicial reforms there .
he replied : we never speculate on these questions .
these are very serious subjects ...
this is an outrageous act that happened , and what matters now is that justice will be brought .
this is what we need to see .
the killing near the village of bidnija stunned the mediterranean island .
authorities said it was the first murder of a journalist there .
i saw a small explosion coming from the car and i panicked .
a few seconds later , around three to four seconds , there was another , larger explosion , said resident frans sant , who was driving in the other direction .
the car continued coming down the hill , skidding at high speed , full of fire .
the car missed me by around 10 feet .
i tried to help , but the fire was too much and the car ended up in the field , he told reuters television .