after donald trump s saturday morning tweetstorm , we have no choice but to wonder what , exactly , he is worried about .
ever since the pee pee dossier was originally released , we have seen trump s ravings evolve from complaints about fake news to demands that the illegal leaks stop .
on saturday , the donald expanded on his at times incomprehensible ravings by blaming obama for people learning about his and his campaign s illicit activities involving russian oligarchs.terrible !
just found out that obama had my `` wires tapped '' in trump tower just before the victory .
nothing found .
this is mccarthyism !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 4 , 2017this isn t mccarthyism .
while trump did not provide any evidence of his claim , it was well known by intelligence agencies rather early in 2016 .
trump even publicly asked the dictator of a hostile foreign power to hack his political opponents .
it s only natural for our intelligence agencies to want to look into that.saying nothing of the evidence that has been uncovered that his team kept in constant contact with high-ranking russian officials during the campaign , trump demanded to know if it is legal for our intelligence agencies to investigate someone who is openly colluding with vladimir putin against the interests of the american people : is it legal for a sitting president to be `` wire tapping '' a race for president prior to an election ?
turned down by court earlier .
a new low !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 4 , 2017then , he threatened to go after president obama in court because our intelligence agencies did their jobs : i 'd bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that president obama was tapping my phones in october , just prior to election !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 4 , 2017trump didn t quite explain his next tweet , but he is more right than he knows about part of it .
how low has president obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process .
this is nixon/watergate .
bad ( or sick ) guy !
president asterisk whined.this is , indeed , very much like nixon/watergate in that nixon was guilty and did quite a bit of public flailing before the investigation into his crimes was complete .
but it seems that trump was saying that nixon , like himself , was innocent and that president obama was sick for allegedly authorizing wiretaps against such a pristine example of a human being as trump.naturally , americans were all over this one : .
@ mike_p_williams this is truly staggering .
he seems paranoid .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump and the paranoia is starting to sink in pic.twitter.com/ztmxkh6p9x rob szczerba ( @ rjszczerba ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump looks like he 's breaking out the tin foil hats again pic.twitter.com/tmjgj4ld5b rob szczerba ( @ rjszczerba ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you know when you say you want to make education great again , does that include spelling ?
matt haig ( @ matthaig1 ) march 4 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump this is nixon/watergate , if by that you mean you 'll be impeached and resign in disgrace .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump hopefully your presidency ends like nixon/watergate .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you 're the next nixon dude .
you 're an embarrassment for our great nation .
a traitor to real americans .
you should resign ?
( @ veevee ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump how long before you illegally delete this ( supposedly ) archived tweet ?
# theresistance ( @ aynrandpaulryan ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you 've been tweeting paranoid , unsubstantiated , unproven crap for an hour .
who is driving america ?
craig stone ( @ craigstone_ ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump your attempt to spin a situation in which your staff broke laws by communicating with russian spies is ludicrous ! ! ! !
stephen robert morse ( @ morsels ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump four tweets now about this wire tap story and still no specifics starting to think you re reading conspiracy blogs .
matthewdicks ( @ matthewdicks ) march 4 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump he did n't need to tap anything , you 're always on here spilling your guts .
also , nixon was guilty , rather like yourself .
jane slavin ( @ janeslavin ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump and you are nixon ?
you know how that ends ?
? ? ?
do n't lie to your country or obstruct justice !
jose andrade ( @ jandrade ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump nope .
you are worse than nixon , and this fiasco is worse than watergate .
andrea kuszewski ( @ andreakuszewski ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump tweeting doesn t seem like the right way to level charges like these on a former president unless they are nonsense .
matthewdicks ( @ matthewdicks ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump even for you this is fucking embarrassing .
michael beveridge ( @ mickyb273 ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump is this going to be another obama isn t an american citizen until it s politically convenient to admit you were wrong ?
matthewdicks ( @ matthewdicks ) march 4 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump did he go so low as to collude with a foreign power to get himself elected ?
raoul binderschmidt ( @ skeletor_jesus ) march 4 , 2017ironically , last year it was revealed that trump had a special console next to his bed at the mar-a-lago that allowed him to spy on guests phone conversations .
though trump denied it , numerous former staffers confirmed that the billionaire did , indeed , spy on guests .
unlike the possibility that our intelligence agencies did tapp trump s phone during the campaign with good reason this would be a crime .
it is illegal in florida to intercept or record phone calls without the consent of everyone involved in the conversation.hopefully , trump is right that this is like nixon/watergate .
we all know how that ended.featured image via getty images ( pool ) /screengrab