seoul ( reuters ) - a defector s treatment for critical injuries suffered during a dramatic dash from north korea has highlighted a shortage of south korean trauma doctors and again underscored seoul s lack of preparedness in the event of hostilities with pyongyang .
the defector , identified only by his family name of oh , was shot at least four times by his former comrades during his daring escape into south korea last week .
american military helicopters flew the wounded soldier not to one of the many hospitals in seoul , closer to the border , but to the ajou university trauma center an hour south of the capital .
the center , and its lead surgeon john cook-jong lee , have been thrust into the spotlight amid a push for more trauma facilities and specialist doctors in a country still technically at war and where preventable trauma death rates are already amongst the highest in the oecd .
an official at south korea s ministry of health said more than 30 percent of people who suffered fatal trauma injuries last year could have survived if they had access to proper , timely treatment .
that s far higher than the 10 to 15 percent in places such as the united states and japan .
although 133 surgeons are currently entitled to perform trauma surgery , i highly doubt that all of them can actually perform , said park chan-yong , general affairs manager of the korean society of traumatology .
many of them just gained the rights , but never had practiced this kind of surgery .
by friday , attention sparked by the defector s case had prompted nearly 200,000 south koreans to join a petition asking the presidential blue house to boost funding for lee s trauma center , one of just nine in the country .
during increased tensions this year with heavily armed north korea , seoul has faced criticism over a lack of preparation for major emergencies , with many bomb shelters , for example , laying forgotten and unstocked with food or water .
the government has launched programs to raise awareness , but public emergency drills often fail to attract much response .
despite the apparent need for specialists , lee said he has faced ignorance , including from some doctors who complained he was showing off with new techniques , since returning from training in the united states in 2003 .
i had to explain whenever i met new doctors here , what a trauma surgeon was .
every day , he said .
often , trauma medicine is not seen as attractive or lucrative as other fields , said park .
residents and medical students avoid coming to traumatology , because there is no hope and no dream .
the south korean government says it recognizes the problem , and in 2014 set a goal of lowering its rate of preventable trauma fatalities to levels closer to those of other oecd countries by 2020 .
but with a shortage of funding , only half of a planned 17 regional trauma centers have been built so far , a health ministry official said .
germany , for example , has less than twice the population of south korea , but 10 times as many operational trauma centers .
south korea s strict gun control laws also mean there are far fewer gunshot wounds like those suffered by the defector .
between january 2012 and august 2017 , 31 people were killed and 51 wounded by guns , according to the police .
in comparison , in the united states , where lee trained , more than 33,000 people die from gunshot wounds every year , according to annual averages of government data .
however , the kinds of industrial accidents and car crashes commonly seen in south korea can cause equally bad injuries , lee said .
in south korea , roughly speaking , more than 90 percent of trauma victims are brought to the hospital in less than an hour , lee said .
however , frequently , they are put in emergency rooms for a while , sometime for hours , to get proper care .
lee has made a name for himself and the ajou trauma center , in part by cultivating a close relationship with the american and south korean militaries , making it an obvious choice for the defector s treatment .
lee said his fascination with the american medical evacuation crews and the techniques he learned in the united states have led him to push for a series of new additions at the trauma center , including a recently completed roof-top helipad with flashing neon messages in english for american pilots .
u.s. military air crews , however , have yet to obtain pentagon permission to use the new helipad , lee said .
the arrival of the north korean defector has brought lee a new round of criticism for appearing to seek attention , including from one lawmaker , a charge he says is unfounded .
but it has also highlighted the need for more funding for his center and more trauma facilities in south korea .
to those who get only 10 , 20 minutes of sleep while working to save emergency room patients , to those who only get to go home once a week or not even that we should not be criticizing them but rather , discuss how to resolve problems within the system , the petition submitted to the blue house said .