dirty harry must ve jarred something in his head that makes him unaware that he s lying in public .
he used to be pretty good at hiding it senate minority leader harry reid ( d-nv ) is changing the story about how he sustained those gruesome new year s day injuries that have left him blind in one eye.previously , reid claimed that an exercise band he was using broke .
i was doing exercises that i ve been doing for many years with those large rubber bands and one of them broke and spun me around and i crashed into these cabinets and injured my eye , ( emphasis added ) reid said at a press conference on january 22 .
( you can see the video of that press conference here .
) but now , in an interview conducted by fusion ( a joint venture between abc and univision ) , excerpts of which have been released today , reid tells univision anchor jorge ramos that the exercise band slipped , rather than broke .
[ t ] he [ elastic band ] strap had no handle on it , slipped , spun me around , uh , about , oh i guess four feet ( reid points with his right hand to the wall of the interview room ) and so i smashed my face into a cabinet , reid tells ramos.reid s latest version of the incident , as told to ramos , differs from previous versions advanced by his team in another very significant way .
sources familiar with the incident said reid was exercising in his bathroom , with the exercise band attached to the shower door , politico reported on january 22 .
( emphasis added ) as breitbart news reported previously , that version of the story , almost certainly told to politico by reid s staffers with his approval , is not credible.now , however , reid tells ramos a different story .
the exercise band was not attached to the shower door in his bathroom , reid says , but was instead attached to a big metal hook that came out from the wall in an unspecified room in his new nevada home.here s a partial transcript of the excerpt of the interview released by fusion : ramos : you said recently that the accident had nothing to do with your decision to retire.however , we are seeing the consequences of what happened.what really happened ? was it really with an elastic band ? reid : yeah , i had a big , that thick ( reid gestures with his hands ) , that i had been using for about four years and i was , you know , trying to maintain my , uh , firmness , and , uh , that was my weight training .
i was doing that in my new home here in nevada and a big metal hook that came out from the wall that was hooked there that the strap had no handle on it , slipped , spun me around , uh , about , oh i guess four feet ( reid points with his right hand to the wall of the interview room ) and so i smashed my face into a cabinet so hard that uh ramos : it looked like somebody had hit you.reid : i am so fortunate that , um , it wasn t over just a fraction of this way and hit me in the temple.ramos : how s your eye ? reid : i am sightless in my right eye.watch the full video of the excerpts of the fusion interview here : ramos then switched gears and asked reid about the most difficult moments of [ his ] 28 years in the senate .
ramos failed to ask some key follow up questions about reid s new year s day injury incident.for instance , ramos failed to ask reid if the accident took place in his bathroom , as reid s office had previously claimed .
according to reid s latest version of the story , we do not know in which room of his house he now claims he sustained these injuries.breitbart news has asked senator reid s office , which has carefully controlled the release of information about his new year s day injuries , to comment on his changed version of the story of his new year s day injuries , but has received no reply.via : breitbart news