beijing ( reuters ) - china supports iraq s unity , the country s foreign ministry said on monday , as voting started in an independence referendum organized by the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) in northern iraq , ignoring the threats of the kurds neighbors .
the vote , expected to deliver a comfortable yes for independence , is not binding and is meant to give massoud barzani s krg a mandate to negotiate secession of the oil producing region with baghdad and neighboring states .
[ nl8n1m60e9 ] the referendum is being held despite intense international pressure on barzani to call it off , amid fears that it would spark fresh conflicts with baghdad and with iraq s powerful neighbors , iran and turkey .
the chinese government supports iraq s sovereignty , unity and territorial integrity , chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang told a daily news briefing , when asked about the referendum .
we hope the relevant sides can resolve the differences via dialogue , and find an inclusive solution that takes into account history and reality , to jointly protect iraqi and regional stability , lu added .
this will help promote iraq s rebuilding and counter-terrorism efforts and accords with the joint interests of countries in the region and the international community , he said .
china , a permanent member of the u.n. security council , is generally a low-key player in the middle east despite its reliance on the region for oil , but has been trying to get more involved , for example by appointing a special envoy for the syrian crisis .
china says it adheres to a policy of non-interference in other countries internal affairs , but it generally takes a dim view of independence or secessionist movements around the world .
at home , it contends with what it says are separatist movements in its western regions of tibet and xinjiang , and has repeatedly expressed concern that self-ruled taiwan , claimed by beijing as its own , could declare formal independence .
however , beijing has expressed more openness toward independence votes when both sides have agreed to them , such as scotland s unsuccessful 2014 referendum to leave the united kingdom , and south sudan s 2011 vote in favor of independence from sudan .