jakarta/candi dasa , indonesia ( reuters ) - bali s rumbling mount agung is starting to impact the economy of the holiday island and , if the eruptions and volcanic ash clouds persist , could spark a bigger wave of cancellations by visitors to indonesia s main tourism destination as peak season beckons .
the relatively small island has an outsized importance for indonesian tourism .
in january-september , bali received 4.5 million foreign tourist arrivals , nearly half of the 10.5 million arrivals in indonesia .
foreign tourist arrivals to the majority-hindu island rose 26 percent in the nine-month period on an annual basis , though dropped on a monthly basis in september , when indonesian authorities first raised the warning alert on agung .
bali is about tourism , nothing else .
if it ( the eruption ) is prolonged for around 1-3 months , it will impact our tourism significantly , said i ketut ardana , chairman of the association of the indonesian tours and travel agencies ( asita ) .
we can feel a small impact now , the price of staple goods is increasing , he said .
indonesia closed bali s airport on tuesday for a second day , stranding thousands of visitors due to the ash cloud .
on monday alone , it disrupted 445 flights that would have carried 59,000 passengers .
chinese tourists have overtaken australians to become the top visitors to bali , representing around a quarter of arrivals in january-september .
australian and japanese tourists are the second- and third-largest groups .
foreign tourists spent about $ 1,100 on average during indonesia holidays in 2016 , according to tourism ministry data .
president joko widodo has been trying to promote creation of 10 new balis in other parts of the scenic indonesian archipelago .
but for many so far , holidaying in indonesia means going to bali .
as agung spewed tall columns of ash , life continued largely as normal on tuesday for villagers near the volcano who set up traditional markets and offered hindu prayers .
matthew smyth from ireland , a restaurant owner in amed , around 15 km ( 9 miles ) from the volcano , said many businesses using rented land would be threatened if the eruption dragged on .
half of the businesses here are built on credit ... if the situation continues many people will lose their land , said smyth , who is also setting up a yoga retreat and freediving center .
the problems facing bali tourism come as indonesian policymakers have been trying to fire up an economy stuck at around 5 percent growth , held back by largely flat consumption .
bali has been growing more quickly .
the tourism sector was the biggest contributor to its 6.24 percent regional gdp growth last year .
but agung has already put a dent in bali s growth this year .
if it ( the eruption ) is prolonged to a month , especially in bali , it could have an impact on tourism revenue .
i think this is a short-term shock , but it needs to be watched , said myrdal gunarto , an economist at maybank indonesia in jakarta .
wayan wirjana , 31 , the manager of a restaurant in candi dasa , a popular beach town in bali , said he was only getting five visitors a day , down from 15-20 in the summer , and expects the usually busy christmas and new year period to be slow .
if things continue in the long term , like through the christmas period , we ll have to lay off staff even if temporarily .
we all have families so there is a very real impact on us , he said .