taipei ( reuters ) - china s air force has carried out 16 rounds of exercises close to taiwan in the last year or so , taiwan s defense ministry said on tuesday , warning that china s military threat was growing by the day .
china considers self-ruled and democratic taiwan to be its sacred territory and has never renounced the use of force to bring what it views as a wayward province under chinese control .
china has taken an increasingly hostile stance towards taiwan since tsai ing-wen from the island s pro-independence democratic progressive party won presidential elections last year .
beijing suspects her of pushing for the island s formal independence , a red line for china .
tsai says she wants peace with china , but that she will defend taiwan s security and way of life .
in a lengthy report , taiwan s defense ministry listed the number of times china s air force had drilled near the island since the end of october last year and which aircraft were involved , including bombers and advanced fighter jets .
of the 16 drills , 15 of them were around taiwan , flying through the bashi channel which separates taiwan from the philippines and near japan s miyako island , to the north of taiwan .
the other drill was through the bashi channel and out into the pacific .
china has repeatedly said the drills are routine .
taiwan s defense ministry said china was the island s biggest security threat .
the chinese military s strength continues to grow rapidly , it said .
there have been massive developments in military reforms , combined operations , weapons development and production , the building of overseas military bases and military exercises , and the military threat towards us grows daily .
chinese missiles can already cover all of taiwan , and china has been improving its abilities in long-range anti-ship missiles to build an ability to resist foreign forces , the ministry added .
tensions rose earlier this month after a senior chinese diplomat threatened that china would invade taiwan if any u.s. warships made port visits there .
taiwan is well equipped with mostly u.s.-made weapons , but has been pressing washington to sell more advanced equipment .
the united states is bound by law to provide taiwan with the means to defend itself , to china s distaste .
proudly democratic taiwan has shown no interest in being run by autocratic china , and taiwan s government has accused beijing of not understanding what democracy is all about when it criticizes taipei .