pathetic little basement dweller and original occupier , turned democrat party presidential hopeful .
is it any wonder young indoctrinated college students adore him ?
just wait until they get there first paycheck .
just watch how quickly they feel the # bern when 90 % of their paycheck has been given away to someone the government deems more deserving .
the photo of bernie s arrest surfaced this week from a chicago protest in august 1063.here s bernie being arrested at civil rights rally .
it doesn t look like bernie has many friends willing to help him out of his jam : * * after leaving school bernie was a bum who didn t earn his first steady paycheck until age 40 .
bernie would use an extension cord and steal electricity from a neighbor because he couldn t keep his lights on.bernie s friends said he was a slob who lived in a shack with a dirt floor .
he later wrote about masturbation and rape for left-wing rags for $ 50 a story.bernie had his electricity cut off a lot so he d run an extension cord down to the basement .
he couldn t pay his bills.today bernie is running for president so he can redistribute your money.the la times reported : a chicago tribune archival photo of a young man being arrested in 1963 at a south side protest is democratic presidential hopeful bernie sanders , his campaign has confirmed , bolstering the candidate s narrative about his civil rights activism.the black-and-white photo shows a 21-year-old sanders , then a university of chicago student , being taken by chicago police toward a police wagon .
an acetate negative of the photo was found in the tribune s archives , said marianne mather , a chicago tribune photo editor .
bernie identified it himself , said tad devine , a senior adviser to the campaign , adding that sanders looked at a digital image of the photo .
he looked at it he actually has his student id from the university of chicago in his wallet and he said , yes , that indeed is ( me ) .
sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , was traveling friday near reno , nev. , on the eve of the state s democratic presidential caucuses .
via : gateway pundit