says the guy who was a jr .
senator and community organizer prior to becoming president of the united states .
and who can forget our selfie president ? and then there s the famous nelson mandela funeral selfie : president obama skewered donald trump on friday , warning that the republicans presumptive nominee isn t serious enough for the presidency , his plans aren t plausible , and his ideas haven t been vetted sufficiently.let s not forget that when obama was living in his own little narcissistic world and making a contribution to absolutely no-one trump was busy creating jobs.obama continued : he has a long record that needs to be examined .
and i think it s important for us ot take seriously the statements he s made in the past , obama said .
we are in serious times and this is a really serious job .
this is not entertainment .
this is not a reality show .
these were obama s first extended comments about trump since the new york mogul cemented his role as the presumptive gop nominee on tuesday night .
he spoke in the white house briefing room , using remarks on the economy and a crackdown on tax evasion as an opportunity to air his views .
it was clear he expected questions about trump , and intended to use the appearance to discuss the new phase of the election .
this is a contest for the presidency of the united states and what that means is that every candidate , every nominee needs to be subject to exacting standards and genuine scrutiny , he said.via : dallas morning newsspeaking of scrutiny : here is a breitbart news top ten list of things that obama has refused to release ( a complete list would fill volumes ) :10 .
state senate papers .
in the 2008 primary , obama criticized hillary clinton for not releasing papers from her eight years as first lady but failed to produce any papers from his eight years in springfield .
they could have been thrown out , he said.9 .
academic transcripts .
his supposed academic brilliance was a major selling point , but obama ( by his own admission ) was a mediocre student .
his gpa at occidental was a b-plus at best , and his entering class at columbia was weak .
can he prove his merit ? 8 .
book proposal .
obama s literary agent claimed he was born in kenya for sixteen years .
his original book proposal exists biographer david maraniss refers to it and seems to have embellished other key details of his life .
yet it has never been released.7 .
medical records .
in 2000 , and again ( briefly ) in 2008 , gop presidential candidate sen. john mccain released thousands of pages of his medical records .
obama , who had abused drugs and continued smoking , merely provided a one-page doctor s note.6 .
small-dollar donors .
in 2008 , the mccain campaign released the names of donors who had contributed less than $ 200 , though it was not required to do so .
but the obama campaign refused , amidst accusations it had accepted illegal foreign contributions.5 .
the khalidi tape .
in 2003 , obama attended a party for his good friend , the radical palestinian academic rashid khalidi .
the event featured incendiary anti-israel rhetoric .
the la times broke the story , but has refused to release the tape and so has obama.4 .
the real white house guest list .
touting its transparency , the obama white house released its guest logs but kept many visits secret , and moved meetings with lobbyists off-site .
it also refused to confirm the identities of visitors like bertha lewis of acorn.3 .
countless foia requests .
the obama administration has been described as the worst ever in complying with freedom of information act requests for documents .
it has also punished whistleblowers like david walpin , who exposed cronyism in americorps.2 .
health reform negotiations .
candidate obama promised that health care reform negotiations would be televised on c-span .
instead , there were back-room deals worth millions with lobbyists and legislators the details of which are only beginning to emerge.1 .
fast and furious documents .
after months of stonewalling congress , attorney general eric holder asked president obama to use executive privilege to conceal thousands of documents related to the deadly scandal and obama did just that.in addition to the above , obama and his campaign have lied about many facts about his past his membership in the new party ; his extensive connections with acorn ; and his continued relationship with domestic terrorist bill ayers and jeremiah wright , among other examples .
obama s own memoir is filled with fabrications .
and now he is lying about his opponent s honorable record in business .
he and the media have no shame.and oh yeah one more thing that we almost forgot :