because # blackcopkillerslivesmatter right ? supporters of tremain wilbourn , the memphis ex-con accused of shooting officer sean bolton when he interrupted a drug deal on saturday night , have started an indiegogo campaign to funnel money to him and his family.wilbourn turned himself in after a two-day manhunt .
i want you to know that one , i m not a cold-blooded killer and two , i am not a coward , he reportedly told memphis police director toney armstrong .
the campaign repeats his claims and says that cops are waging terrorism on black communities , and so they have to support ex-cons who kill.the description of the campaign reads in full : this year , police have killed 558 people .
68 % of those people were black .
most of them were unarmed .
police brutality and terrorism on the black community remains largely unchecked and less than 1 % of those police officers who murder black people without cause are charged with murder or manslaughter.tremaine wilbourn turned himself in to police on monday , august 3rd for fatally shooting a police officer during a traffic stop and he wanted to make clear two things : one- he is not a cold-blooded killer , and two- he is not a coward .
while the murderers of freddie gray , trayvon martin , eric garner , 12 year old tamir rice , sandra bland and countless others are free to enjoy their families and lives , these men are no longer among the living.these barbaric , unjustified murders of black men , women , and children are supported under the rule of law .
we have to step up and support our people like the murderers of these men , women , and children have been supported .
please donate anything you can to support tremaine s children and his family during this difficult time for them.so far , the campaign has raised $ 116 with 12 funders out of its stated $ 61,000 goal .
we have to support our people , the campaign s founder , pk ei wrote as a comment .
if darren wilson can raise enough to put his children through college twice , we should be able to put together this change for tremaine s family .
we should always support our own people , especially when the situation is grime and questionable , or when we are completely within our rights .
because we are all we have to support us , reads another from user thinkanotherway .
the campaign declares that wilbourn did in fact , shoot bolton to death .
if nothing else , its adherence to indiegogo s community guidelines is questionable : indiegogo is not a place for hatred , abuse , discrimination , disrespect , profanity , meanness , harassment , or spam , the community guidelines read .
do no [ u ] se the services to promote violence , degradation , subjugation , discrimination or hatred against individuals or groups based on race , ethnic origin , religion , disability , gender , age , veteran status , sexual orientation , or gender identity .
indiegogo did kill an april campaign helping a cop accused of murder : south carolina police officer michael slager , charged for shooting fleeing suspect walter scott to death .
our trust & safety team regularly conducts verifications and checks and this campaign did not meet their standards , the company said at the time.via : breitbart news