zurich ( reuters ) - a referendum in switzerland to clarify the country s relationship with the european union would be helpful , swiss president doris leuthard said on sunday , after ties between the two sides cooled this week .
switzerland s frictions with the eu , of which it is not a member , arise as britain negotiates its withdrawal from the bloc following a referendum in june last year and seeks a new trading relationship with its closest neighbors .
talks on securing a new framework treaty to govern the swiss-eu relationship have been underway for some time , with brussels wanting to replace the more than 100 bilateral accords which regulate its relationship with bern .
but relations soured this week when the eu granted swiss stock exchanges only limited access to the bloc , prompting swiss threats of retaliation for what it called discrimination .
the bilateral path is important , leuthard told swiss newspapers sonntags blick .
we therefore have to clarify our relationship with europe .
we have to know in which direction to go .
therefore a fundamental referendum would be helpful .
talks on the an all-encompassing agreement made headway last month after switzerland agreed to increase its contribution to the eu s budget .
such a deal would ensure switzerland adopts relevant eu laws in return for enhanced access to the bloc s single market , crucial for swiss exports .
but a deal would be opposed by the anti-eu swiss people s party ( svp ) , currently the biggest group in parliament .
leuthard , who steps down as president at the end of the year , said the latest row had not overshadowed her year in the rotating office .
of course , the differences with brussels are now in focus .
here our attitude is clear - for the eu to link such a technical thing like stock exchange equivalency with a political question like the framework treaty , that is not possible , she said some countries were putting switzerland in the same category as britain , while others wanted to strengthen their own financial centers at switzerland s expense .
others think we are cherry pickers who benefit too much from the single european market , they want to increase pressure for a framework agreement , leuthard said .
pressure from outside would did not contribute to a beneficial climate in switzerland over a potential agreement , she said .
she said she understood swiss scepticism towards the eu , but there was no alternative to finding an accommodation with the bloc which generates around two thirds of swiss trade .
we can strengthen the cooperation with india and china , but the eu remains central .
we need a mechanism and regulated relationship with the eu , that would also prevent political games like we are having at the moment , leuthard said .