donald trump loves to brag that he is the strongest republican candidate ever .
as proof , he offers the fact that he received 13 million votes during the primary .
reagan , trump says , had fewer than 8 million votes .
he also bypassed romney by about three million.here s what trump says about it : look , you know the republican party has largely come together .
they agree with me , and they believe in me , and i got more votes than anybody in the history of primary elections , trump replied .
nobody s ever even gotten close , the republicans .
i got more than ronald reagan , i got more than richard nixon , i got more than dwight eisenhower , i got more than anybody but i have to say , the republicans better get smart , they better start sticking together .
source : breitbart.comtrump s claim is absolutely true .
do you feel that ?
that s a collective chill going down the spines of every sane person on the planet .
fortunately for all of sanity , it s not as simple as trump or some in the media claim .
trump did not bypass ronald reagan or even mitt romney in the popular vote , and here s why : in the simplest of terms , we have a lot more people than we did when reagan ran in 1980 and even when romney ran in 2012.the truth doesn t bode well for trump : in 1980 , ronald reagan won 7.7 million votes in the republican contests in a country that had more than 80 million fewer people of voting age .
further , more than a dozen states held non-binding caucuses that the candidates largely ignored .
adjusting for the population increase and the number of meaningful primary contests today , reagan likely would have won close to 14 million votes significantly more than trump received , according to a huffpost analysis.adjusting george w. bush s 12 million votes from 2000 the same way suggests he might have won 14.5 million votes .
and adjusting 1952 s numbers , eisenhower might have received 13.6 million votes , while taft might have won 18.6 million both more than trump received.but the biggest gop winner in modern times , according to the huffpost analysis , was richard nixon in 1960 , when the sitting vice president won 5 million votes in just 13 contests suggesting nixon could have won 25.6 million votes with today s voting population and primary schedule.source : huffington postlet s compare that to hillary clinton .
in 2008 , both she and barack obama nearly tied with more than 17 million votes each .
this year , her vote totals are lower ( about 16 million ) but they are still greater than donald trump s.of course , like most of trump s boasts , these numbers mean absolutely nothing .
primary voters tend to be a different group of people than general election voters and we are still several months out , but we do know that he s not in a position to do better than ronald reagan or even than mitt romney.featured image via sara d. davis at getty images .