baghdad ( reuters ) - kurdish peshmerga fighters rejected a warning from an iraqi paramilitary force to withdraw from a strategic junction south of kirkuk , which controls access to some of the region s main oilfields , a kurdish security official said on sunday .
iran meanwhile shut its border crossings with iraq s kurdistan in support of measures taken by the iraqi government to isolate the kurdish region , the iraqi foreign ministry said .
the border closing came as an iranian military official arrived in iraq s kurdistan for talks on the growing crisis between the kurdish authorities and the iraqi government following last month s kurdish independence referendum .
the baghdad central government has taken a series of steps to isolate the autonomous kurdish region since its vote for independence , including banning international flights .
baghdad s tough line , ruling out talks sought by the kurds unless they renounce the breakaway move , is backed by neighbors turkey and iran - both with their own sizeable kurdish minorities , and in turkey s case , a long-running kurdish insurgency .
the top kurdish leadership met on sunday to discuss the crisis and rejected the iraqi government s demand that it cancels the outcome of the independence referendum as a precondition for talks to resolve the dispute .
the vote delivered an overwhelming yes for independence .
the iraqi government in a statement accused the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) of bringing fighters from turkey s separatist kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) to kirkuk , describing the move as a declaration of war .
in the statement , published after a meeting in baghdad , chaired by prime minister haider al-abadi and attended by top military and security commanders , the government said it would seek to impose its authority over kirkuk and other disputed areas .
a spokesman for krg president masoud barzani , vahal ali , denied the iraqi government claims about the pkk .
this is false , there are no pkk in kirkuk , only peshmerga , he told reuters , referring to krg military forces .
the kurdish leadership meeting , attended by barzani , rejected the iraqi military threats and pledged to defend kurdish-held territory in case of an attack .
iraqi paramilitary groups backing the shi ite-led government in baghdad had warned the peshmerga to leave a position north of the maktab khalid junction by midnight saturday , a krg security official said .
the kurdish position north of the junction controls the access to an important airbase and bai hassan , one of the region s main oil fields , the krg official said .
ali al-hussaini , a spokesman for the paramilitary groups known as popular mobilisation , did not give indications about their next move following the kurds rejection of the warning .
we are waiting for new orders , he told reuters .
there were no clashes reported 21 hours after the deadline but tension remained high with both sides mobilized .
iranian major general qassem soleimani arrived on saturday in the kurdistan region to hold talks about the crisis .
he is the commander of foreign operations for iran s elite revolutionary guards who provide training and guns to popular mobilisation the city of kirkuk , the airbase and their immediate surroundings , including the oilfields , are under kurdish control .
kurdish authorities said on friday they had sent thousands more troops to kirkuk to confront iraqi threats .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi has repeatedly denied any plans to attack the kurds .
popular mobilisation is a separate force from the regular army and officially reports to abadi .
it is deployed alongside the army south and west of kirkuk .
kirkuk , a city of more than one million people , lies just outside krg territory but peshmerga forces were stationed there in 2014 when iraqi security forces collapsed in the face of an islamic state onslaught .
the peshmerga deployment prevented kirkuk s oilfields from falling into jihadist hands .
in washington , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on friday the situation had the full attention of the united states , which was working to ensure it does not escalate .
the united states has taken the side of the iraqi government in refusing to recognize the validity of the referendum .