phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s exiled opposition leader sam rainsy has committed treason by inciting soldiers to defy orders , prime minister hun sen said on wednesday , and he will face new legal action over the comments .
the threat of more legal action against sam rainsy , who has lived in france since 2015 to avoid a series of convictions , comes weeks after a court dissolved his opposition party , removing any significant challenge to hun sen extending his decades-long rule in a general election next year .
the dissolution of the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) has been condemned by the opposition , rights groups and some western countries as the most serious blow to democracy since an international peace deal and u.n.-run elections in the early 1990s ended decades of war and genocide .
the united states has withdrawn an offer to help fund the election and the european union has raised the possibility of withdrawing trade preferences .
sam rainsy , who stepped down as leader of the cnrp this year in what turned out to be a futile bid to forestall a ban on his party suggested in a video posted on his facebook page on tuesday that soldiers would not obey orders to shoot civilians .
around the world , at any time , armed forces don t obey orders given by dictators to kill people and we say that hun sen is not immortal , we must not protect hun sen , sam rainsy told supporters in paris .
hun sen , who has held power for more than 32 years , a said the military would file a lawsuit in response .
this is a treasonous crime , an incitement of soldiers to disobey orders , hun sen told garment workers in phnom penh .
the supreme court banned the cnrp after its leader , kem sokha , who took over after sam rainsy stepped down , was arrested for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government with american help .
kem sokha , who rejected the accusation , is in prison .
in an interview with reuters last month , sam rainsy said cambodia was at a tipping point and that hun sen would be driven from power like zimbabwe s robert mugabe .
he urged western states to impose targeted sanctions .
a government crackdown on dissent has included the prosecution of several rights activists , reporters and the closure of several media outlets .
sam rainsy served as finance minister in an ill-fated coalition set up when hun sen refused to give up power after losing a u.n.-organised election in 1993 .
hun sen purged his coalition partners in a 1997 putsch .
hun sen has built close ties to china and dismisses western pressure to improve rights .
he has warned of a return to civil war if he were to lose the election .
( this version of the story amends headline to show hun sen said the opposition leader would be sued )