new delhi ( reuters ) - india s home ministry said on monday it would confidentially share intelligence information with the supreme court showing rohingya links with pakistan-based militants , in a bid to get legal clearance for plans to deport 40,000 rohingya muslims .
the supreme court is hearing an appeal lodged on behalf of rohingya against the deportation plan proposed by prime minister narendra modi s hindu nationalist government .
india s home ministry submitted an affidavit to the court arguing that the hardline stance was justified by the security threat posed by illegal immigrant rohingya , hundreds of thousands of whom have fled from myanmar to bangladesh , from where many have crossed into india .
the ministry said the illegal influx of large numbers of rohingya into india began four to five years ago , long before an exodus that saw more than 400,000 rohingya flee to bangladesh since aug. 25 to escape a myanmar military counter-insurgency offensive that the united nations has called ethnic cleansing .
the affidavit went on to say the government had reports from security agencies and other authentic sources indicating linkages of some of the unauthorized rohingya immigrants with pakistan-based terror organizations and similar organizations operating in other countries .
it also said there was information on rohingya involvement in plots by islamic state and other extremist groups to ignite communal and sectarian violence in india .
senior home ministry official mukesh mittal said the indian government would privately show the court material gathered from sensitive investigations to substantiate the claims in its affidavit .
lawyer prashant bhushan , who filed the plea on behalf of two rohingya men , will file a rejoinder to the government s affidavit , his office told reuters .
the court will next hear the matter on oct. 3 .
meantime , police said on monday that they had arrested a suspected member of al qaeda who they believed was trying to recruit rohingya living in the country to fight security forces in myanmar .
senior police officer pramod kushwaha told reuters that british national shauman haq , 27 , was arrested near a bus stop in delhi on sunday .
he had come to india via bangladesh .
rohingya in india voiced worries that they were being unfairly tainted by the allegations and sought more understanding for their plight .
we feel helpless and hopeless , said rohingya youth leader ali johar , who came to india in 2012 and lives with his family in a delhi settlement .
the world s largest democracy has given us shelter but they should handle this situation more empathetically .
modi s government has been criticized by activists for not speaking out against myanmar s recent military offensive against rohingya insurgents , and right-wing groups in india have begun vilifying rohingya living there .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in buddhist-majority myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
more than 800,000 rohingya currently live in bangladesh .