washington ( reuters ) - china is making progress in enforcing sanctions imposed on north korea , a u.s. state department official said on thursday , and urged skeptical members of congress not to rush to enact new ones before giving beijing s efforts a chance to take effect .
we are working closely with china to execute this strategy and are clear-eyed in viewing the progress - growing , if uneven - that china has made on this front , state department assistant secretary susan thornton told a senate hearing just before leaving for china with secretary of state rex tillerson .
we do see chinese policy shifting , she said , as members of the senate banking committee advocated for tougher action to clamp down on pyongyang s nuclear and missile development .
tensions have been rising on the korean peninsula as north korean leader kim jong un and u.s. president donald trump exchange war-like threats and insults .
on thursday , south korea said it expects more provocative acts by north korea next month to coincide with the founding of its communist party .
several committee members want harsher measures , including secondary sanctions targeting chinese banks and companies doing business with north korea , and measures to bar oil imports .
thornton and the other witness , treasury department under secretary sigal mandelker , said congress should not do anything that could interfere with efforts to find a diplomatic solution .
when our hands are tied in different ways , it keeps us from being agile in the way that you would want us to be agile , mandelker said .
trump ordered new sanctions against north korea last week , including on its shipping and trade networks , showing he was giving more time for economic pressures to address the crisis after repeated warnings about possible military action .
we are able and have the authority to target any company that s continuing to trade with north korea in any industry , mandelker said , when asked about the prospect of cutting off chinese oil exports to north korea .
several committee members noted that north korea s economy has grown in recent months , and said china must do more .
the consensus in washington is that china is a partner in this issue .
i do not think that that is the case , republican senator tom cotton said .
china s commerce ministry thursday said that , following the latest u.n. sanctions passed on sept. 12 , north korean firms in china and joint ventures in china and overseas would be shut down by january .
china says it will strictly and fully enforce u.n. resolutions against north korea , but has also repeatedly called for more efforts to be made to get talks restarted and for there to be a diplomatic solution , warning war would bring disaster .
on friday , the official china daily said in an editorial the latest sanctions needed time before they would begin to bite .
but to ensure that the worst-case outcome does not materialize , while further coordinating their stances on the implementation of the un sanctions to make sure they work , beijing and washington also need to discuss what else they can do to resolve the peninsula crisis peacefully , it said .