united nations ( reuters ) - qatar s emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani on tuesday renewed a call for unconditional dialogue to end a crisis pitting qatar against four arab states while u.s. president donald trump said he expected the dispute to be resolved quickly .
speaking from the podium of the 193-member united nations general assembly , sheikh tamim renewed the call for an unconditional dialogue based on mutual respect for sovereignty .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , egypt and bahrain cut diplomatic and trade links with qatar on june 5 , suspending air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
the nations say doha supports regional foe iran and islamists , charges qatar s leaders deny .
kuwait has been trying to mediate and the united states has taken an increasingly robust role in trying to end the crisis , but as yet to no avail .
trump and sheikh tamim later held a meeting in which the emir was careful to emphasize the strong qatar-u.s. relationship after trump appeared to be more sympathetic to the saudi position at the start of the crisis .
qatar hosts al udeid air base , the largest u.s. military facility in the middle east .
as you said , mr. president , we have a problem with our neighbors , tamim said , adding that with trump s intervention , hopefully we can find a solution for this problem .
trump , who has said he would be willing to mediate the worst dispute in decades among the u.s.-allied arab states and qatar , said he had a very strong feeling the dispute would be solved pretty quickly .
in a speech severely criticizing the four arab states conduct during the dispute , the emir said the countries were inflicting damage on the war on terror .
the countries who imposed the blockade on the state of qatar interfere in the internal affairs of many countries , and accuse all those who oppose them domestically and abroad with terrorism .
by doing that they are inflicting damage on the war on terror , sheikh tamim said in his speech to the annual gathering of world leaders .
we have refused to yield to dictations by pressure and siege .
a gulf official from one of the opposing countries said it was unfortunate that emir tamim continues to talk about a blockade when even he in the same speech acknowledged that his ship lanes are open .
it s disappointing that he talks about interference in the internal affairs of others while refusing to admit that is a core part of the four nations complaints against qatar , the official added .
earlier this month , saudi arabia suspended any dialogue with qatar , accusing it of distorting facts , just after a report of a phone call between the leaders of the two countries suggested a breakthrough in the gulf dispute .
saudi arabia s crown prince mohammed bin salman spoke by the telephone with qatar s emir in the first publicly reported contact between the two leaders since the start of the crisis .