seoul ( reuters ) - the heir to south korea s samsung group , convicted of bribing the country s former president , appeared in a packed court on thursday for the first day of arguments in the appeal of his five-year jail term for corruption .
the 49-year-old jay y. lee was convicted by a lower court in august of bribing park geun-hye , who was dismissed as president in march .
the court decided the bribe helped lee strengthen his control of the crown jewel in the conglomerate , samsung electronics ( 005930.ks ) , one of the world s biggest technology companies .
the appellate court hearing the appeal is likely to try to rule on the case by next february , legal experts said .
whichever side loses could take the case to the supreme court , the final court of appeal in south korea .
lee s presence marked his first public appearance since the august ruling .
he did not speak during the proceedings other than giving his birth date and address .
the lower court in august had ruled that while lee never asked for park s help directly , the fact that a 2015 merger of two samsung affiliates did help cement lee s control over samsung electronics implied he was asking for the president s help to strengthen his control of the firm .
lee , sitting mostly expressionless in a dark suit without tie , listened to hours-long powerpoint presentations by both sides arguing over the lower court s logic that lee s actions implied solicitation for help from park by providing financial support for park s close friend and confidante choi soon-sil .
on thursday , the defense strongly challenged that logic .
in order for implied solicitation to exist , there needed to have been a level of wordless understanding between lee and the former president that transcended speaking , said lee in-jae , jay y. lee s lead counsel .
the prosecution , which has lodged a cross-appeal against the lower court ruling that found lee innocent on some charges , said the court s decision to not acknowledge explicit solicitation for park s help from samsung despite the evidence found did not make sense .
the defense , which spent much of its time during the initial trial refuting the prosecution s individual charges , said it will focus on a few key arguments in the appeal - including whether there was in fact an ordinary type of bribery as defined under south korean law , which says only civil servants come under the statute .
park s friend choi was not a civil servant .
the lower court found that samsung s financial support of 7.2 billion won ( $ 6.27 million ) to sponsor the equestrian career of choi s daughter constituted an ordinary type of bribery , as it can be considered the same as she ( park ) herself receiving it .
the defense is expected to strongly challenge this by saying that the prosecution , on whom the burden of proof lies , has not proved collusion between park and choi .
the appeal hearing continues on oct 19 .