cleveland ( reuters ) - ohio state legislators on wednesday passed a bill blocking state and federal funds for groups that perform or promote abortions , effectively cutting $ 1.3 million annually used by planned parenthood clinics for hiv testing , pre-natal care and other programs .
governor john kasich , a republican presidential candidate , is expected to sign the bill , which the state senate had already passed .
house bill 294 , which passed 59 to 32 , blocks women ’ s health providers that also provide abortions , or groups that refer patients to those providers , from receiving funds from a variety of state and federal grants .
planned parenthood said the bill would hinder lower-income women ’ s access to testing for sexually transmitted diseases , hiv tests and well-baby programs .
according to its website , planned parenthood has 20 clinics in ohio .
two provide abortions and all provide abortion referral .
with most republicans keen to deny funds to planned parenthood , kasich will have the opportunity to sign the bill ahead of the party ’ s presidential primary on feb. 20 in south carolina .
joe andrews , spokesman for kasich , said the bill furthers ohio ’ s policies .
“ the ohio department of health had already stopped awarding state dollars to planned parenthood and they were kicked to the back of the line for the federal government ’ s family planning grants that the department administers .
this bill further reinforces ohio ’ s policies , ” andrews said wednesday .
opponents of the bill accused state republicans of grandstanding , noting that the timing of its passage was convenient for kasich as he campaigns in a crowded field for nomination to represent his party in the november election .
“ there ’ s no legitimate justification for defunding planned parenthood .
every excuse by legislators has been debunked , ” kellie copeland executive director of naral pro-choice ohio , an abortion rights advocacy group , said on wednesday .
“ clearly the motivation behind the content and timing of this legislation is to bolster john kasich ’ s campaign to anti-choice voters in south carolina , ” copeland added .
proponents of the bill said the funding transfer will help combat infant mortality because it re-directs $ 250,000 for new parent education .
under ohio law no state funds are used to provide abortions but state funds are used by planned parenthood to provide other healthcare .
rep. kathleen clyde , a democrat , said the bill would be counterproductive .
“ it will likely increase the number of abortions in ohio by cutting access to birth control and access to sex education in ohio , ” she said .