berlin ( reuters ) - the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) on saturday dropped a controversial bid for data on the ethnic backgrounds and private views of journalists after concerns surfaced about its registration form for a party congress .
the party s initial registration form had sparked sharp criticism on friday from the german journalists association , and prompted an investigation by the berlin data protection office .
the party , which rails against what it calls the islamisation of europe and fake news coverage by mainstream news outlets , became the third largest force in the german bundestag , or lower house of parliament , in sept. 24 elections .
afd officials had declined to comment to the stuttgarter zeitung newspaper , which first reported the issue on friday , and did not respond to a request for comment by reuters .
however the party s spokesman downplayed controversy about the issue in a posting on twitter on saturday .
test version deleted .
starting immediately journalists can use the official registration form on our website , afd spokesman christian lueth wrote on twitter .
the initial media version had asked journalists to check a box in which they agreed to the collection , storage and use of personal data provided , such as name , medium and press pass number , as well as special data .
the form referenced a section in germany s data protection law , which lists such special data as including racial and ethnic background , political views , religious or philosophical convictions , union membership , health or sexual orientation .
other parties require basic information for registration of journalists , but do not ask for such personal details .
this is an unacceptable intrusion into the private affairs of journalists , said hendrik zoerner , spokesman for the german journalists association .
we call on the afd to immediately remove the required agreement .
the afd won nearly 13 percent of vote on sept. 24 , making it the third largest party in the bundestag , or lower house of parliament , and the first far-right group to move into the legislature in more than half a century .
german civil rights groups are mobilizing to stage a large protest at the start of the party congress in the northern city of hanover on dec. 2 .