mike rowe of discovery channel s show dirty jobs took to facebook to answer a fan s request to encourage your huge following to go out and vote this election .
jeremy schneider writes hey mike , i have nothing but respect for you .
your no-nonsense outlook and incredible eloquence have really had a profound impact in my life .
can you please encourage your huge following to go out and vote this election ?
i would never impose on you by asking you to advocate one politician over another , but i do feel this election could really use your help .
i know that there are many people out there who feel like there is nothing they can do .
please try to use your gifts to make them see that they can do something that their vote counts .
hi jeremy thanks for the kind words .
i appreciate it .
i also share your concern for our country , and agree wholeheartedly that every vote counts .
however , i m afraid i can t encourage millions of people whom i ve never met to just run out and cast a ballot , simply because they have the right to vote .
that would be like encouraging everyone to buy an ar-15 , simply because they have the right to bear arms .
i would need to know a few things about them before offering that kind of encouragement .
for instance , do they know how to care for a weapon ?
can they afford the cost of the weapon ?
do they have a history of violence ?
are they mentally stable ?
in short , are they responsible citizens ?
i would need to know a few things about them before offering that kind of encouragement , he told the reader .
for instance , do they know how to care for a weapon ?
can they afford the cost of the weapon ?
do they have a history of violence ?
are they mentally stable ?
in short , are they responsible citizens ?
and responsibility is what it all comes down to .
casting a ballot is not so different .
it s an important right that we all share , and one that impacts our society in dramatic fashion .
but it s one thing to respect and acknowledge our collective rights , and quite another thing to affirmatively encourage people i ve never met to exercise them .
and yet , my friends in hollywood do that very thing , and they re at it again , he observed.he said that liberal celebrities urge their fans to get out and vote during every presidential election cycle , calling it our most important civic duty , noting that they speak as if the very act of casting a ballot is more important than the outcome of the election .
calling those pleas somewhat hysterical , rowe said there s an ulterior motive behind them .
does anyone actually believe that leonardo dicaprio , ellen degeneres , and ed norton would encourage the masses to vote , if they believed the masses would elect donald trump ?
he asked.he described voting as a right , not a duty , and not a moral obligation , which carries with it a responsibility on the part of the voter .
but even the irresponsible are allowed to cast a ballot .
if you believe aliens from another planet walk among us , you are welcome at the polls .
if you believe the world is flat , and the moon landing was completely staged , you are invited to cast a ballot .
astrologists , racists , ghost-hunters , sexists , and people who rely upon a magic 8 ball to determine their daily wardrobe are all allowed to participate .
in fact , and to your point , they re encouraged .
rowe reasoned that encouraging everyone to vote regardless of their mental state or knowledge of issues and current events is crazy .
when they tell us that everybody in the country should get out there and vote , regardless of what they think or believe , i got ta wonder what they re smoking .
read more : bpr