north charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump and top challenger ted cruz ended a longstanding truce in spectacular fashion on thursday night with bitter exchanges during what may have been trump ’ s strongest debate performance to date .
the new york billionaire and the texas senator appeared to have a split decision by the end of the night , a sign that for all the bluster , little took place that could derail trump from his lead position with a contest in iowa on feb. 1 to begin the search for a republican presidential nominee .
projections that the debate would be a free-for-all were accurate .
beyond the trump-cruz theatrics , u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida turned in a pugnacious performance with attacks on cruz and new jersey governor chris christie .
florida governor jeb bush presented himself as a voice of reason against trump .
a google snap poll showed viewers believed trump , who in the most recent debates was at times less engaged , won the night with 37.3 percent to cruz ’ s 26.6 percent and rubio ’ s 12.1 percent .
until the fox business network debate in north charleston , south carolina , trump and cruz had been friendly because they have both been chasing conservatives of the tea party movement and did not want to anger them .
with trump now needing to fend off cruz ’ s rise in iowa , he pushed his charge that cruz may not be constitutionally qualified to serve as president because he was born in canada .
the u.s. constitution says only “ natural born ” citizens can become president of the united states .
“ who the hell knows if you can even serve in office ? ” trump told cruz , drawing a scattering of boos in the audience .
born in calgary , alberta , to a u.s. citizen mother and a cuban father , cruz accused trump of bringing up his birthplace simply because cruz was leading some polls in iowa .
cruz said trump , who led the movement questioning whether the hawaiian-born president barack obama was really from the united states , had asked his lawyers to look into the issue of cruz ’ s birth in september and concluded there were no issues .
“ since september , the constitution hasn ’ t changed , but the poll numbers have , ” cruz said .
“ and i recognize that donald is dismayed that his poll numbers are dropping in iowa , but the facts and the law here are really clear. ” trump said democrats would sue if cruz were on the republican ticket , putting their party ’ s chances of winning at risk .
cruz shot back that he had spent many years studying constitutional law : “ i ’ m not going to be taking legal advice from donald trump. ” the birthright issue has dogged american politics before : 2008 republican nominee john mccain survived questions about his birth in panama because he was born on a u.s. military installation there and it was judged to be u.s. soil .
in 1967 , republican candidate george romney faced questions about his birth in mexico , but his candidacy never advanced far and the issue was abandoned .
while cruz seemed to have parried the attack for now , he was stung by trump on another issue : whether people who live in new york city have the same values as other americans .
cruz has lately begun denouncing “ new york values ” to connect trump to the city ’ s famous liberalism .
“ everyone understands that the values of new york city are socially liberal , are pro-abortion , are pro-gay marriage , ” cruz said .
trump , in perhaps his most heartfelt remarks of the night , harked back to new york ’ s response to the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks to defend his home city .
“ the people in new york fought and fought and fought , and we saw more death , and even the smell of death ... and it was with us for months , the smell , the air .
“ and we rebuilt downtown manhattan , and everybody in the world watched and everybody in the world loved new york and loved new yorkers .
and i have to tell you , that was a very insulting statement that ted made , ” trump said .
rubio , in third place behind trump and cruz in iowa and hoping a strong outcome there will help him in the new hampshire primary on feb. 9 , frequently inserted himself into arguments and tried to put pressure on cruz .
he accused cruz of proposing a value added tax as part of his tax plan and of being soft on immigration .
“ that is not consistent conservatism , ” he said .
“ that is political calculation. ” he attacked christie as well , accusing him of have liberal positions on education policy and abortion .
christie interrupted a rubio-cruz exchange with this blast : “ i ’ d like to interrupt this debate on the floor of the senate .
you had your chance , marco you blew it , ” he said .
cruz , who has taken the lead in some polls of iowa republican voters , did well on social media .
social media monitoring tool zoomph saw total positive mentions for cruz climb by more than 150 percent while he sparred with trump .
trump is far ahead nationally .
a reuters/ipsos rolling national poll on jan. 12 showed trump had 39 percent of the vote , cruz 14.5 percent , bush 10.6 percent , carson 9.6 percent , while 6.7 percent favored rubio .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here ) ( in paragraph 5 , corrects to fox business network from fox business channel )