london ( reuters ) - foreign minister boris johnson said britain would appeal to iran on humanitarian grounds to free a jailed aid worker but expressed reservations that granting her diplomatic protection would help secure her release , her husband said on wednesday .
nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted by an iranian court of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
johnson came under pressure to resign after comments he made earlier this month that zaghari-ratcliffe had been teaching people journalism before her arrest in april 2016 .
critics said the comments might have prompted iran to extend her sentence and he apologized for his remarks on monday .
the thomson reuters foundation , a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news , said zaghari-ratcliffe had been on holiday and had not been teaching journalism in iran .
on wednesday , johnson met her husband richard ratcliffe and told him britain would leave no stone unturned in its bid to free her , saying the british ambassador in tehran had earlier raised her case again with the iranian authorities .
johnson also stressed the importance of an appeal on humanitarian grounds , ratcliffe told reporters , saying it had been a positive meeting .
but officials had questioned whether it would help to grant his wife diplomatic protection - a move that would explicitly make zaghari-ratcliffe s fate an issue in state-to-state relations rather than a purely consular case .
a legal opinion prepared for the human rights charity redress on zaghari-ratcliffe s case said the british government could grant her diplomatic protection as she is predominantly a british citizen who has been denied a fair trial .
i said i thought it would be important and helpful ...
the foreign secretary and the foreign office expressed reservations , ratcliffe said .
the foreign office said lawyers would meet in the next fortnight to discuss the issue further .
iran s state news agency irna also signaled such a move could backfire , citing comments by an unidentified international law expert .
in iran s view , zaghari is an iranian citizen , and was tried , due to her illegal actions , and convicted in iranian courts ; and now she is serving her sentence , it quoted the expert as saying .
hence the uk s interference , other than through peaceful paths and humanitarian issues , is considered an intervention in iran , and will ( naturally ) trigger iran s severe reaction .
ratcliffe said johnson was keen to take him on a trip to iran planned before the end of the year , which could allow him to see his wife and three-year-old daughter , who is being cared for by relatives in iran , for the first time in 19 months .
for me it s very important to be going on that trip , to be standing alongside the foreign secretary and i understand that s a big ask .
it s reasonably unprecedented , but i think it s important in our circumstances , he said .
ratcliffe , who said his wife appeared to be on the edge of a nervous breakdown and was due to have further tests after finding lumps on her breasts , said he thought she was being used as a diplomatic bargaining chip .
there are fights that are nothing to do with us ... we re being used as a vehicle for those fights , he said .