president-elect donald trump said thursday it s time for our country to move on to bigger and better things after the obama administration issued sanctions against russia for its alleged 2016 election hacking .
it s time for our country to move on to bigger and better things , trump said in a written response released four hours after the announcement .
nevertheless , in the interest of our country and its great people , i will meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week in order to be updated on the facts of this situation .
the obama administration announced sanctions against russia s intelligence services , while ejecting dozens of intelligence operatives from the u.s. as part of a response to what it says are efforts by moscow to influence the election.using an executive order , president obama sanctioned the gru and the fsb two of russia s intelligence services as well as other entities and individuals associated with the gru .
the cybersecurity firm hired by the democratic national committee to investigate the hack of its emails earlier this year concluded the hacking came from the fancy bear group , believed to be affiliated with the gru , russia s military intelligence agency.in addition to the sanctions , the state department has declared 35 russian intelligence operatives persona non grata in the u.s. , giving them 72 hours to leave , and is shutting down two russian compounds in maryland and new york.russian president vladimir putin s spokesman said in response to the announcement that moscow will consider retaliatory measures .
we think that such steps by a u.s. administration that has three weeks left to work are aimed at two things : to further harm russian-american ties , which are at a low point as it is , as well as , obviously , to deal a blow to the foreign policy plans of the incoming administration of the president-elect , dmitry peskov told reporters in moscow.the russian embassy in the uk took a different approach , tweeting out a picture of a lame duck and blasting what it called cold war deja vu .
president obama expels 35 diplomats in cold war deja vu .
as everybody , incl people , will be glad to see the last of this hapless adm. pic.twitter.com/mleqa16h8d russian embassy , uk ( @ russianembassy ) december 29 , 2016the treasury secretary meanwhile has named two individuals evgeniy mikhailovich bogachev and aleksey alekseyevich belan it says were involved in malicious cyber-enabled activities .
these actions follow repeated private and public warnings that we have issued to the russian government , and are a necessary and appropriate response to efforts to harm u.s. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior , obama said in a statement.obama also announced that the department of homeland security and the fbi will release declassified information on russian cyberactivity to help identify , detect and russia s global campaign of malicious cyber activities .
obama also said that the administration will be providing a report to congress in the coming days about russian attempts to interfere in the election , as well as previous election cycles.the president also hinted that his administration intends to do more to hold russia accountable .
these actions are not the sum total of our response to russia s aggressive activities , obama said .
we will continue to take a variety of actions at a time and place of our choosing , some of which will not be publicized .
u.s. intelligence services have concluded that the russians interfered in the election to try and help president-elect donald trump win .
trump has dismissed the conclusions .
russia does not share america s interests .
in fact , it has consistently sought to undermine them , sowing dangerous instability around the world .
while today s action by the administration is overdue , it is an appropriate way to end eight years of failed policy with russia , ryan said.incoming senate minority leader chuck schemer , d-ny. , also praised the move in a statement late thursday .
fox news