prague ( reuters ) - the czech center-left government of prime minister bohuslav sobotka stepped down on wednesday , making way for billionaire andrej babis , who won an election last month , to take power in time for an eu summit in december .
the government approved its resignation , the resignation will be delivered to the president today , sobotka told reporters after a regular government session .
sobotka s coalition government was the first in 15 years to complete a full four-year term and presided over robust economic growth that helped cut unemployment to the lowest level in the eu and push up wages at the fastest pace in a decade .
however , voters tired of politics as usual opted for anti-establishment candidates , punishing traditional parties at the polls .
babis s ano party , with pledges to fight political corruption and run the state with a business touch , was the biggest benefactor of this shift despite being part of the outgoing cabinet with sobotka s social democrats and the christian democrats .
ano has failed to convince any of the other eight parliamentary parties to join a coalition .
babis has instead sought a minority cabinet , expected to be appointed by president milos zeman on dec. 13 and take power immediately .
this would enable babis to attend the summit of eu leaders on dec. 14-15 , where the main topic will be progress in negotiations with britain over its departure from the eu .
parties have shunned babis , a businessman worth $ 4 billion and ranked by forbes as the second richest czech , because of police charges he illegally received a 2 million euro eu subsidy a decade ago for a farm and convention center by hiding ownership .
he denies any wrongdoing .
as a lawmaker , he has immunity from prosecution , which the outgoing parliament voted to suspend but which comes into effect again with the new parliament .
some lawmakers who voted to allow him to face prosecution in the past have hinted they will uphold his immunity , suspending proceedings for this parliamentary term .
only the small communist party has said so far that it could consider tolerating babis s minority government , but its 15 votes are not enough to secure victory in a confidence vote in the 200-seat chamber of deputies , where ano holds 78 seats .
initial votes in the new parliament have shown ano voting along with the communists as well as the far-right , anti-eu and anti-nato spd party , but the latter has so far said it would not give backing or tolerance to babis in a confidence vote .
once appointed prime minister , babis would remain in the position even if he loses a confidence vote , pending talks on an alternative solution .