this ad is disgusting in so many ways .
the video shows a group of kids bullying and name calling another kid because his dad didn t vote .
we ve seen these tactics used before with union members and other leftists in the democrat party .
but at a time when schools and parents are being asked to be more vigilant about bullying , what makes this group who supports hillary , and spends money to ensure trump doesn t win the election think this is okay ?
america is starting to discover through a series of hillary s campaign manager s emails , and undercover videos exposing the corrupt nature of hillary s campaign , those who support her through various radical groups and organizations and of course , the democratic party.this video , from non-profit civic innovation works , also has a super pac with the same name that supports hillary to children everywhere sends a clear message : if you know of a kid who s parents aren t planning to vote , it might be a good time to start bullying them watch : this ad was funded by a civic innovation works whose officer is the same person who is named as the treasurer on the radical civic innovation super pac .
sounds pretty harmless right ?
well actually , they re a group who funds ads for hillary and ads against trump .
one of their top contributors is co-founder of facebook , dustin moskovitz.the billionaire who made a fortune off of facebook , a social media platform that was created for users of all races , ages and political backgrounds has committed to spending $ 20 million to defeat trump in the upcoming election .
you ll never hear about him and his desire to affect the outcome of the election by funding a campaign against donald j. trump.daniel hausman is the treasurer of the leftist group , civic innovation usa .
here are screen shots of a few of their recent expenditures .
the organization that promotes bullying of kids by other kids supports hillary : they also spent money to defeat trump : how much more evidence do american voters need to see the democratic party is not their grandparents , or even their parents party ?