washington ( reuters ) - while attention in asia has been distracted by the north korean nuclear crisis in the past year , china has continued to install high-frequency radar and other facilities that can be used for military purposes on its man-made islands in the south china sea , a u.s. think tank said on thursday .
chinese activity has involved work on facilities covering 72 acres ( 29 hectares ) of the spratly and paracel islands , territory contested with several other asian nations , according to the asia maritime transparency initiative of washington s center for strategic and international studies .
the report cited satellite images .
the united states and its allies oppose china s building of artificial islands in the south china sea and their militarization , given concerns beijing plans to use them to deny access to strategic routes .
it s completely normal for china to conduct peaceful construction and build essential defense equipment on its own sovereign territory , china s foreign ministry spokesman lu kang told a regular press briefing on friday , in response to a question about the report .
we believe certain people who have ulterior motives are making mountains out of molehills and stirring up trouble .
the report said that in the last several months china had constructed what appeared to be a new high-frequency radar array at the northern end of fiery cross reef in the spratlys .
subi reef had seen tunnels completed that were likely for ammunition storage and another radar antenna array and radar domes , the report said .
construction on mischief reef included underground storage for ammunition and hangars , missile shelters and radar arrays .
smaller-scale work had continued in the paracel islands , including a new helipad and wind turbines on tree island and two large radar towers on triton island .
it said the latter were especially important as waters around triton had been the scene of recent incidents between china and vietnam and multiple u.s. freedom-of-navigation operations , which the u.s. navy has used to assert what it sees as its right to free passage in international waters .
woody island , china s military and administrative headquarters in the south china sea , saw two first-time air deployments that hint at things to come at the three spratly island air bases farther south , the report said .
at the end of october , the chinese military released images showing j-11b fighters at woody island for exercises , while on nov. 15 , amti spotted what appeared to be y-8 transport planes , a type that can be configured for electronic surveillance .
the pentagon has conducted several patrols near chinese-held south china sea territory this year , even as it has sought china s help in northeast asia to press north korea to give up its nuclear weapons program .
on tuesday , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson reiterated a call for a freeze in china s island building and said it was unacceptable to continue their militarization .