today s testimony between ag sessions and senators went from testy to hysterical when senator tom cotton went into a really funny line of a combined statement with questions he started pointing out there s no evidence and then went through spy novel names then this : have you ever in any of these fantastical situations great stuff ! senator cotton : let s turn to the potential crimes that we know have happened leaks of certain information .
here s a short list of what i have the contents of alleged transcripts of conversations between mr. flynn and mr. kislyak.the contents of president trump s phone calls of australian and mexican leaders.the contents of mr. trump s meetings with the russian foreign minister and ambassador .
cotton went on with his list it was a moment of clarity that was huge ! in case you missed it here s the sessions opening statement : full opening statement of attorney general sessions statement : it was a very strong and passionate statement from a determined sessions.full transcript : thank you chairman burr and ranking member warner for allowing me to publicly appear before the committee today.i appreciate the committee s critically important efforts to investigate russian interference with our democratic process .
such interference can never be tolerated and i encourage every effort to get to the bottom of any such allegations.as you know , the deputy attorney general has appointed a special counsel to investigate matters related to russian interference in the 2016 election .
i am here today to address several issues that have been specifically raised before this committee , and i appreciate the opportunity to respond to questions as fully as i am able to do so .
but as i advised you , mr. chairman , and consistent with long-standing department of justice practice , i can not and will not violate my duty to protect confidential communications with the president.now , let me address some issues directly : i did not have any private meetings nor do i recall any conversations with any russian officials at the mayflower hotel .
i did not attend any meetings at that event .
prior to the speech , i attended a reception with my staff that included at least two dozen people and president trump .
though i do recall several conversations i had during that pre-speech reception , i do not have any recollection of meeting or talking to the russian ambassador or any other russian officials .
if any brief interaction occurred in passing with the russian ambassador during that reception , i do not remember it .
after the speech , i was interviewed by the news media , which had gathered as i remember in a different room , and then i left the hotel.but whether i ever attended a reception where the russian ambassador was also present is entirely beside the point of this investigation into russian interference with the 2016 campaigns .
let me state this clearly : i have never met with or had any conversations with any russians or any foreign officials concerning any type of interference with any campaign or election .
further , i have no knowledge of any such conversations by anyone connected to the trump campaign .
i was your colleague in this body for 20 years , and the suggestion that i participated in any collusion or that i was aware of any collusion with the russian government to hurt this country , which i have served with honor for over 35 years , or to undermine the integrity of our democratic process , is an appalling and detestable lie.relatedly , there is the assertion that i did not answer senator franken s question honestly at my confirmation hearing .
that is false .
this is how it happened .
he asked me a rambling question that included dramatic , new allegations that the united states intelligence community had advised president-elect trump that there was a continuing exchange of information during the campaign between trump s surrogates and intermediaries for the russian government .
i was taken aback by these explosive allegations , which he said were being reported in breaking news that day .
i wanted to refute immediately any suggestion that i was a part of such an activity .
i replied , senator franken , i m not aware of any of those activities .
i have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and i didn t have did not have communications with the russians , and i m unable to comment on it .
that was the context in which i was asked the question , and in that context , my answer was a fair and correct response to the charge as i understood it .
it simply did not occur to me to go further than the context of the question and list any conversations i may have had with russians in routine situations , as i had with numerous other foreign officials.please hear me now .
it was only in march of this year that a reporter asked my spokesperson whether i had ever met with any russian officials .
this was the first time that question had been posed .
on the same day , we provided that reporter with the information related to the meeting i and my staff had held in my senate office with ambassador kislyak , as well as the brief encounter in july after a speech that i had given during the convention in cleveland , ohio .
i also provided the reporter a list of all 25 foreign ambassador meetings i had held during 2016 .
in addition , i provided supplemental testimony to the senate judiciary committee to explain this .
i readily acknowledged these two meetings .
certainly nothing improper occurred.let me also explain clearly the circumstances of my recusal from the investigation into the russian interference with the 2016 election .
i was sworn in as attorney general on thursday , february 9th .
the very next day , i met with career department officials , including a senior ethics official , to discuss some things publicly reported in the press and that might have some bearing on the issue of recusal .
from that point , february 10th , until i announced my formal recusal on march 2nd , i was never briefed on any investigative details and did not access information about the investigation ; i received only the limited information that the department s career officials determined was necessary to inform my recusal decision .
as such , i have no knowledge about this investigation beyond what has been publicly reported , and i have taken no action with regard to any such investigation .
on the date of my formal recusal , my chief of staff sent an email to the heads of the relevant departments , including by name to director comey of the fbi , to instruct them to inform their staffs of this recusal and to advise them not to brief me or involve me in any such matters .
and in fact , they have not .
importantly , i recused myself not because of any asserted wrongdoing on my part during the campaign , but because a department of justice regulation , 28 cfr 45.2 , required it .
that regulation states , in effect , that department employees should not participate in investigations of a campaign if they have served as a campaign advisor.the scope of my recusal , however , does not and can not interfere with my ability to oversee the department of justice , including the fbi , which has an $ 8 billion budget and 35,000 employees .
i presented to the president my concerns , and those of deputy attorney general rod rosenstein , about the ongoing leadership issues at the fbi as stated in my letter recommending the removal of mr. comey along with the deputy attorney general s memorandum , which have been released publicly by the white house .
it is a clear statement of my views .
it is absurd , frankly , to suggest that a recusal from a single specific investigation would render an attorney general unable to manage the leadership of the various department of justice law enforcement components that conduct thousands of investigations.finally , during his testimony , mr. comey discussed a conversation he and i had about a meeting mr. comey had with the president .
i am happy to share with the committee my recollection of the conversation i had with mr. comey .
following a routine morning threat briefing , mr. comey spoke to me and my chief of staff .
while he did not provide me with any of the substance of his conversation with the president , mr. comey expressed concern about the proper communications protocol with the white house and with the president .
i responded to his comment by agreeing that the fbi and department of justice needed to be careful to follow department policies regarding appropriate contacts with the white house .
mr. comey had served in the department of justice for the better part of two decades , and i was confident that mr. comey understood and would abide by the department s well-established rules governing any communications with the white house about ongoing investigations .
my comments encouraged him to do just that and indeed , as i understand , he did .
our department of justice rules on proper communication between the department and the white house have been in place for years .
mr. comey well knew them , i thought , and assumed correctly that he complied with them.i will finish with this .
i recused myself from any investigation into the campaigns for president , but i did not recuse myself from defending my honor against scurrilous and false allegations .
at all times throughout the course of the campaign , the confirmation process , and since becoming attorney general , i have dedicated myself to the highest standards.the people of this country expect an honest and transparent government and that is what we are giving them .
this president wants to focus on the people of this country to ensure they are treated fairly and kept safe .
the trump agenda is to improve the lives of the american people .
i know some have other agendas , but that is his agenda and it is one i share.importantly , as attorney general i have a responsibility to enforce the laws of this nation , to protect this country from its enemies , and to ensure the fair administration of justice .
i intend to work every day with our fine team and the superb professionals in the department of justice to advance the important work we have to do .
these false attacks , the innuendo , and the leaks , you can be sure , will not intimidate me .
in fact , these events have only strengthened my resolve to fulfill my duty to reduce crime , and to support our federal , state , and local law enforcement officers who work our streets every day .
just last week , it was reported that overdose deaths in this country are rising faster than ever recorded .
the murder rate is up over 10 percent the largest increase since 1968 .
together , we are telling the gangs , the cartels , the fraudsters , and the terrorists we are coming after you .
every one of our citizens , no matter who they are or where they live , has the right to be safe in their homes and communities .
and i will not be deterred , and i will not allow this great department to be deterred from its vital mission. < strong > how sad that this is happening to a very good man ! < /strong >