hillary had several chances over the years to treat her secret service detail with kindness and respect .
she chose instead , to berate them and treat them like second class citizens .
her arrogance and mistreatment of those who have been hired to protect her life is now coming back to bite her good morning , ma am , a member of the uniformed secret service once greeted hillary clinton .
f off , she replied.that exchange is one among many that active and retired secret service agents shared with ronald kessler , author of first family detail , a compelling look at the intrepid personnel who shield america s presidents and their families and those whom they guard .
when in public , hillary smiles and acts graciously , kessler explains .
as soon as the cameras are gone , her angry personality , nastiness , and imperiousness become evident .
he adds : hillary clinton can make richard nixon look like mahatma gandhi .
hillary s horrible treatment of her secret service detail is now coming back to bite her , as agents are eager to tell the truth about her poor health and how they ve been working to keep it a secret for quite some time.it turns out that the secret service is the source of leaks on hillary s rapidly deteriorating health.according to infowars reporter joe biggs , during the republican national convention last june , two secret service agents approached infowars and asked to speak to them .
biggs describes what happened , beginning at around the 5:30 mark of the video below : the secret service contacted me .
they said that hillary clinton has parkinson s disease .
they [ hillary s people ] spent over a quarter million dollars on these stairs to allow her to step down from the vehicle to the ground because she has trouble walking .
they [ secret service ] said that any kind of flashes or strobes will set her off into a seizure , and that s why they wanted to come us.watch here : they wanted to contact us and give us information because they knew we [ inforwars ] would be able to get this out .
[ unlike the msm , ] we wouldn t be scared to do it .
and you know it really makes a lot of sense when you watch all these videos .
the fact that she s refusing to do these news conferences .
hillary had not done a press conference for 8 months .
her last press conference was on december 4 , 2015 .
( washington post ) watch hillary here as clinton embraces the owner of joe biden s childhood home on her recent trip to scranton , pa with one arm , while holding onto the railing on the front walk .
moments later , she pivoted and grabbed the railing with the other hand.then she pivoted back , only to reach for the railing again with the other hand.inside the house , she held onto a chair and moved to lean on the kitchen table .
click here for entire story.at this point , alex jones makes the observation that hillary s campaign rallies seem to have fewer flashes and strobe lights than trump s rallies .
so biggs proposes that infowars brings cameras with flashes and strobe lights to one of hillary s rallies and see if they re stopped at the gate and barred from bringing the equipment inside .
dc clothesline