thomas article can be read below : my dad called martin luther king an agitator .
i bet a lot of white dads did .
seems like every time dr. king showed up somewhere , things got torn up or burned up.so we killed him .
not me , of course .
i m not a racist .
but who thinks he is ? notice how usa today author oliver thomas is quick to point out that he s , not a racist , just everyone else.so we tried to fix it .
made his birthday a national holiday .
put him on a pedestal .
where we can honor him .
and he can t poke us in the eye.plus , now we ve squared everything .
the civil rights act .
the voting rights act .
come on , we ve even elected a black president !
that s why people who look like me have a hard time understanding why so many black people are still angry while others have given up on america altogether.i ll let ta-nehisi coates boil it down for you .
white society was not achieved through wine tastings and ice cream socials , but rather through the pillaging of life , liberty , labor and land .
in short , through three centuries of kidnapping , torture , murder and rape .
broken teeth , broken bones and broken spirits .
families ripped apart .
children taken from their parents .
men humiliated in front of their wives .
women brutalized within earshot of their husbands .
lash after bloody lash on bare backs .
then , sleep on a bare wooden floor .
no doctor , no dentist , no nothing .
just non-stop misery with a few hymns on sunday.we built an entire society on these bruised and broken backs .
that and countless native americans driven off their land .
then , after the house of horrors fell , and the sin was purged by the blood of more than a half-million young mostly white men , white america still did not relent .
despite passage of the 13th , 14th and 15th amendments to the constitution , states found ways to disenfranchise blacks .
we took back the vote , cordoned blacks off in the most undesirable parts of our cities , forced them into inferior schools and denied them opportunities .
few blacks owned their homes .
many could not read and write .
thousands were lynched .
that s southern for murdered without a trial .
imagine if that s what black men had done to robert de niro or david bowie for marrying black women.the article can be read in its entirety on usa today