melbourne ( reuters ) - an australian man of afghan descent with a history of mental health issues drove a car into christmas shoppers in the city of melbourne on thursday , injuring 19 people , but police said they did not believe the attack was terror-related .
in january , four people were killed and more than 20 injured when a man drove into pedestrians just a few hundred meters away from thursday s attack .
that too was not a terror attack .
jim stoupas , the owner of a donut shop at the scene , told reuters the vehicle was traveling up to 100 kph ( 62 mph ) when it drove into the intersection packed with people , hitting one person after another .
all you could hear was just bang bang bang bang bang and screams , stoupas said in a telephone interview , adding the car came to rest by a tram stop .
police said they detained the 32-year-old driver , an australian of afghan descent with a history of assault , drug use and mental health issues .
at this time , we don t have any evidence or intelligence to indicate a connection with terrorism , said the acting chief commissioner of victoria state , shane patton .
four of the injured were in critical condition , including a pre-school aged boy who suffered a head injury .
police also detained a 24-year-old man at the scene who was filming the incident and had a bag with knifes .
patton said it was quite probable the 24-year-old was not involved .
the men had not been charged and their names have not been released by police .
the attack took place on flinders street , a major road that runs alongside the yarra river , in the central business district of australia s second-biggest city .
melbourne has installed about 140 concrete bollards in the city center to stop vehicle attacks by militants similar to recent attacks in europe and the united states .
we ve seen an horrific act , an evil act , an act of cowardice perpetrated against innocent bystanders , said the state premier , daniel andrews .
sydney , australia s biggest city , has also installed concrete barricades in main pedestrian thoroughfares .
our thoughts & prayers are with the victims & the emergency & health workers who are treating them , prime minister malcolm turnbull said in a post on his official twitter account .
australia has been on a high national threat level since 2015 , citing the likelihood of attacks by australians radicalized in iraq and syria .
two hostages were killed during a 17-hour siege by a lone wolf gunman , inspired by islamic state militants , in a cafe in sydney in december 2014 .
for a map of melbourne , click tmsnrt.rs/2bcjp3z