has the obama regime really sunk to a new low level ?
is that even possible ?
what do hateful racist and anti-cop messages have to do with a dangerous deal with iran ? the white house is getting hammered for a tweet that was posted on thursday using a popular hip hop theme for a meme promoting obama s dangerous iran deal .
the meme is fashioned after a popular movie poster for the movie straight outta compton about the world s most dangerous group , n.w.a .
who in the early 80 s used lyrics like f ck the police .
this isn t your dad s n.w.a : dre is now 50 and a mogul , cube is 46 and a hollywood powerhouse .
and yeah , the guys who sang f tha police and one less bitch have been married for decades .
so what s left after you poked mainstream america out of its race slumber 30 years ago ?
the hot biopic straight outta compton : all this shit really happened .
it s crazy how we were getting criticized for this years ago , says dre of n.w.a s provocative songs about inner-city life .
and now , it s just like , ok , we understand .
this movie will keep shining a light on the problem , especially because of all the situations that are happening in ferguson and here in los angeles .
it s definitely going to keep this situation in people s minds and make sure that everyone out there knows that this is a problem that keeps happening still today .
hollywood reporterhere s the official white house twitter account for the deal posted its own version : .
@ buzzfeed and thanks to the # irandeal , iran will be pic.twitter.com/zehn1epex7 the iran deal ( nara ) ( @ theirandeal ) august 13 , 2015here is the trailer to the straight outta compton movie : in 1991 , n.w.a .
was reveling in its self-described role as the world s most dangerous group , condemned by politicians and law enforcement authorities alike .
straight outta compton had sold some 2 million copies , and its hotly anticipated second full album efil4zaggin ( read it backwards ) brought the group fresh infamy when it was released in june of that year.the album s cover showed n.w.a .
now without cube , who had left to start a solo career in 1989 after falling out with manager jerry heller as ghosts rising from gunned-down corpses , and its content was no less violent or nihilistic .
songs about violence and sex were punctuated with skits that were just as extreme ; the band used the n-word some 249 times .
having been roundly condemned as a menace to society , the group was doing its best to live up to the label .
and it worked ; the album was banned from some record chains in the u.s. , and british authorities , under the authority of the obscene publications act , seized 25,000 copies of the album upon its release .
critics weren t impressed .
time s jay cocks branded the album grotesque in a july 1991 review , not for its threat to the moral order but for its relentless negativity and misogyny : the fact is , efil4zaggin is an entire open season for negative stereotyping .
that s the classic rap posture , black male division , of course : turning the comic-book white fantasy of the black male as a murderous sexual stud into a hyperbolic reality .
rappers like n.w.a .
and public enemy want to scare the living hell out of white america and sell it a whole mess of records by making its worst racial nightmares come true.n.w.a .
s runaway success was driven not by street-seasoned bloods , cocks wrote .
instead , he continued , the group appealed to white , middle-class teenage boys thousands of miles from south central l.a. who were looking for a way to rebel .
via : timehere is the very explicit video f * ck the police by nwa who our white house has chosen to tie in to their pro-iran deal message :