tunis ( reuters ) - tunisia s two main parties on thursday gave parliamentary backing to prime minister youssef chahed s new cabinet , handing him the initiative to push sensitive economic reforms demanded by the international monetary fund .
chahed s cabinet needs strong support to reform public sector wages and overhaul the pension system to improve national finances .
infighting and social protests have kept past governments from pushing through tougher austerity reforms .
chahed on wednesday named 13 new ministers including heads of the interior , defense and finance ministries .
he appointed taoufik rajhi , one of his advisors from the islamist ennahda party , to a new economic reforms ministry in a deal that ends weeks of party infighting over posts .
rached ghannouchi , the head of ennahda party , called his 69 lawmakers in parliament to give a vote of confidence to the coalition government which includes ruling nidaa tounes , machroua tounes , the republican and massar parties .
the new cabinet also includes independents and former ministers who worked with ex-president zine el abidine ben ali , ousted by a popular uprising in 2011 .
ennahda won four important ministries , including the new ministry of economic reforms .
nidaa tounes led by the son of president beji caid essesbi welcomed the reshuffle in which his party secured six new posts and other junior portfolios .
this reshuffle maintained political balances , boosted the political weight of our party , we will give our confidence to the new team , sofian tobal an official in nidaa tounes said .
backing from the two main parties means chahed s government can expect support from at least 150 lawmakers in the 217-seat parliament .
ennahda and nidaa tounes have more than 130 seats between them plus the support of smaller parties .
chahed s cabinet needs 109 votes to win a confidence ballot .
this government would be like a war cabinet , in a war against the corruption , against rampant unemployment and a war to save the economy , chahed said on wednesday .
he has said he will present parliament with a comprehensive plan to push the economy forward , including accelerating the coordination of public-private partnerships and proposing more incentives to investors .
we will confront the imbalance in public finances , adjust the trade balance and improve the situation of public institutions that are facing difficulties , as well progress on major priority reforms , he said .
tunisia is struggling to revive its economy and create jobs for frustrated youth .
but it is under pressure to reduce deficits by stopping public sector hiring , laying off thousands of state employees and selling shares in some troubled public institutions .
reforms are also expected to include cuts in subsidies for energy and some basic materials , which would be highly sensitive and rejected by tunisia strong unions who have in the past played the role of political power brokers .