( reuters ) - legislation to raise taxes in republican-controlled kansas to help balance the budget was defeated on wednesday after the state senate failed to override the governor ’ s veto .
the senate ’ s 24-16 vote to override , which fell short of a two-thirds majority requirement , came just hours after the house overrode the veto .
the measure would have increased individual income tax rates and ended a business tax exemption to raise an additional $ 590 million in fiscal 2018 , which begins on july 1 .
republican governor sam brownback said on tuesday night that he planned to veto it “ because the legislature failed to fulfill my request that they find savings and efficiencies before asking the people of kansas for more taxes. ” kansas is not the only state with republicans controlling both the governor ’ s office and legislature to have skirmishes over taxes .
michigan governor rick snyder has pushed back against a legislative move to phase out the state ’ s income tax by 2057 .
on tuesday , house lawmakers revised the proposal to gradually reduce the rate from 4.25 percent to 3.90 percent in 2021 , when it would result in a $ 1.1 billion drop in revenue , according to a legislative analysis .
“ half of a billion dollars will come due in 2019 and over one billion by 2022 , years in which we have planned funding specifically to invest in modernizing our state ’ s infrastructure , ” snyder said in a statement .
in oklahoma , where revenue is sinking , governor mary fallin proposed expanding the sales tax base to services to raise about $ 834 million for the fiscal 2018 budget .
lieutenant governor todd lamb , who was elected separately from fallin , resigned from the governor ’ s cabinet last week , citing the tax plan .
“ while i respect the determination with which governor fallin met her obligation to present a balanced budget to the legislature , i can not support her proposed tax increases , ” lamb , who remains lieutenant governor , said in a statement .
in kansas , brownback enacted legislation in 2012 reducing tax rates by as much as 29 percent in a move intended to improve the state ’ s business climate .
but state coffers have shrunk , causing kansas to miss revenue targets .
this month , s & p offered a pessimistic assessment on the state ’ s finances , revising the outlook on kansas ’ aa-minus credit rating to negative from stable , citing structural budget pressures .