jerusalem/london ( reuters ) - an iranian blogger granted asylum in israel has been questioned by its shin bet internal security service on suspicion of illegal communication with iran , an israeli official said on friday .
israel admitted neda amin , 33 , who was previously based in turkey , on humanitarian grounds in august , saying that she faced forced repatriation to iran and would be at risk given her writings for an israeli news site .
amin , who is originally from tehran , says her father was jewish .
israeli law bars contact with the military or similar state agencies of its enemy iran .
as home to thousands of iranian jewish immigrants , israel has in the past allowed citizens to visit family in iran .
but it outlawed these trips a decade ago over shin bet concerns that tehran could recruit them as spies .
a shin bet statement said that , after moving to israel , amin communicated with iranian representatives and was questioned about this by the security service , whose responsibilities include counter-espionage .
asked by reuters for clarification , an israeli security official said only that the people with whom amin was accused of communicating were not her relatives , and were inside iran .
amin was not under arrest , said the israeli official , who requested anonymity , adding : whether there is a ( criminal ) case here is still being investigated .
amin later told reuters she had been questioned for eight days over her contacts with a person she believed was an israeli intelligence agent , but who her shin bet interrogators told her was in fact an iranian government operative .
a farsi-speaking man had called her in turkey , describing himself as an israeli intelligence officer who wanted to protect her from ankara s security services , she said , adding that they stayed in touch after she moved to israel .
whenever the man phoned , amin said , his number came up on her screen with an israeli prefix .
they never met , she said .
they told me i am innocent as i have been in touch with an impostor , without knowing it , she said .
i have spoken to this man , but i have done nothing against israel s security .