damascus ( reuters ) - syria s government has produced much more power in recent months as the army recaptured natural gas fields from militants , the electricity ministry said on tuesday .
bassam darwish , head of the electricity ministry s planning unit , told reuters that the amount of gas the petroleum ministry provided to fuel power plants has nearly doubled since last winter .
there had been a very big problem with securing fuel and we went through a difficult winter ... we have seen an improvement , darwish said .
after the liberation of any area , the workers of the energy sector directly go in and repair facilities .
with the help of russian air power and iran-backed militias , the army has driven rebels from syria s main urban centers in western syria and marched eastwards against islamic state .
syrian troops with their allies pushed into the oil-rich province of deir al-zor last month , after steady advances against islamic state insurgents across the central and eastern desert .
several gas fields have fallen back under government control since last year .
electricity supply has been highly restricted and irregular across various parts of the country during the six-year war .
improving it would help syrian president bashar al-assad restore economic growth in territory the government controls .
since early in syria s multi-sided conflict , damascus and the electricity ministry have worked with friendly states to help keep the power system running , darwish said .
contracts were signed with russia , with china , with iran ... that enabled us to continue working in the past , he said .
earlier this month , iran signed deals with damascus to repair and build power plants , a potentially lucrative move for tehran that points to its deepening economic role .
during the visit by syria s electricity minister to tehran , the two sides signed a memorandum of understanding that includes restoring a main control centre for the syrian power grid .
the deals also involve a contract to supply power to aleppo city .
darwish said the meeting led to signing very important contracts with iranian energy company mapna , with strong support from the islamic republic .
under the deals , iran will make payment easy for the syrian government , whose economy has been battered by war and western sanctions , he said .
the contracts ... are based on payment facilities from the iranian side , he added .
we expect very big contracts to come out of the mou that was signed ... very large numbers , always with preferential terms for the syrian side .
shunned by western powers , damascus has been looking to friendly states to play a major role in rebuilding the country .
iran will build an oil refinery in syria after the war ends , the head of downstream technologies at iran s research institute of the petroleum industry was quoted as saying on tuesday .
in january , iran s government and entities close to its elite revolutionary guards signed major telecommunications and mining deals with damascus .
since at least 2012 , iran has provided critical military support to the damascus government , helping it regain swathes of the country .
iran experts say tehran is now looking to reap a financial dividend .
before the war in syria , power cuts and blackouts were almost non-existent , darwish said .
the government produced less than 20 billion kilowatt hour last year , down from 50 billion in 2011 , he said .
it was constantly declining because of the lack of fuel , in addition to destruction in the electric system and energy sector , including power plants and oil wells , he said .
darwish estimated that direct damages in the power sector throughout the war amounted to between $ 4 and 5 billion .
indirect losses resulting from the lack of electricity to various sectors , residential zones , and institutions , had reached nearly $ 60 billion , he said .
this shows us ... the scale of the efforts that will have to be very big to restore the electric system , which will also require very large investments , he said .
this issue is related to the availability of funding , which is currently the main obstacle , he said .
the government was doing all it could , but the size of the damages is big .