would cnn even know the truth if it bit them in the a * * ? the media s quest to prove donald trump jr. colluded with wikileaks is all wrong.the sept. 14 email to trump campaign advertising wikileaks emails promoted publicly available info , was riddled with typos and came from a trump backer who had given $ 40 to the campaign months earlier , per email viewed by @ wsj .
rebecca ballhaus ( @ rebeccaballhaus ) december 8 , 2017legal insurrection cnn originally reported an email from trump jr. was sent 10 days later , a factual inaccuracy that led to a false timeline and essentially , fake news .
the timeline is crucial because it proves trump jr. was not trading unknown information , but that someone was alerting him to information already made public .
despite claims to the contrary , trump jr. was not aware ( as far as records prove ) ofcnn has published a correction and updated this story .
originally cnn said the email was dated sept. 4 , based on `` accounts from two sources who had seen the email . ''
cnn now has a copy of the email , and it 's dated sept. 14 , not sept. 4. https : //t.co/epvrb43jyu brian stelter ( @ brianstelter ) december 8 , 2017from cnn s report , which has been updated to reflect the wapos findings : candidate donald trump , his son donald trump jr. and others in the trump organization received an email in september 2016 offering a decryption key and website address for hacked wikileaks documents , according to an email provided to congressional investigators.the september 14 email was sent during the final stretch of the 2016 presidential race.cnn originally reported the email was released september 4 10 days earlier based on accounts from two sources who had seen the email .
the new details appear to show that the sender was relying on publicly available information .
the new information indicates that the communication is less significant than cnn initially reported.after this story was published , the washington post obtained a copy of the email friday afternoon and reported that the email urged trump and his campaign to download archives that wikileaks had made public a day earlier .
the story suggested that the individual may simply have been trying to flag the campaign to already public documents.cnn has now obtained a copy of the email , which lists september 14 as the date sent and contains a decryption key that matches what wikileaks had tweeted out the day before.after obtaining the emails , the wapo corrected the record : a 2016 email sent to president trump and top aides pointed the campaign to hacked documents from the democratic national committee that had already been made public by the group wikileaks a day earlier.the email sent the afternoon of sept. 14 , 2016 noted that wikileaks has uploaded another ( huge 678 mb ) archive of files from the dnc and included a link and a decryption key , according to a copy obtained by the washington post.the writer , who said his name was michael j. erickson and described himself as the president of an aviation management company , sent the message to the then-republican nominee as well as his eldest son , donald trump jr. , and other top advisers.legal insurrection tweeted about cnn s latest veryfakenews story : washington post proving that cnn scoop was fake news .
happy friday !
https : //t.co/ghfzdrf9zv legal insurrection ( @ leginsurrection ) december 8 , 2017