fox news legal expert gregg jarrett dropped a bomb on susan rice when he said she likely committed three crimes .
jarrett was on with sara carter of circa news when he made the claim of criminal behavior by rice.gregg jarrett : susan rice , whose got a lot to answer for .
she is sort of the queen of the false narrative which is a polite way of saying lie .
she not only lied about the benghazi case and bowe bergdahl but then she hauls off and tells judy woodruff , i don t know anything about incidental collection and then when she gets caught red-handed she says , ok , i knew all about it , but i never asked for the unmasking on trump transition officials .
well now the nsc has the goods on her and that appears to be a lie as well .
so she may have actually committed three potential crimes here .
one , it s a crime to lie about your masking request .
two , it s a crime for you to use your office for political purpose .
three , it s a crime to leak unmasked details .
she better get herself a good criminal defense attorney.our latest report on susan rice who just can t figure out why she s being targeted : susan rice , the obama national security adviser under fire over her alleged involvement in the unmasking of trump associates during the 2016 presidential election , suggested in a fresh interview that race and gender might be playing a role in the scrutiny she s faced .
please note our previous report below on the radical past and racism of susan rice .
the nerve of this woman who went on 5 morning shows after benghazi and lied to the american people !
in an interview with journalist michael tomasky for new york magazine , rice reportedly questioned the criticism she s faced dating back to the benghazi controversy .
why me ?
why not jay carney , for example , who was then our press secretary , who stood up more ?
she asked.tomasky noted in the piece that carney isn t an african-american woman , of course and apparently asked rice whether that is the key factor .
rice , in response , left the door open : i don t know i do not leap to the simple explanation that it s only about race and gender .
i m trying to keep my theories to myself until i m ready to come out with them .
it s not because i don t have any .
but rice mentioned other prominent female figures like hillary clinton and condoleezza rice who faced ad hominem attacks , suggesting a correlation.asked about the comments , a republican capitol hill source pushed back .
this is screaming out for attention she s saying i don t know why they all started picking on me to begin with .
as to the suggestion of race and gender being a factor , the source countered , then why would there be a subpoena for a white male ?
that was a reference to the fact that rice is not the only focus of the congressional probe into unmasking .
investigators have issued subpoenas to three different agencies : nsa , cia and fbi.playing the victim is the usual tactic of leftists like susan rice she was a college radical before she cleaned up her resume and put on a business suit : racist victim susan rice had a string of failures in africa before benghazi her racist claim that national security isn t diverse enough so not as effective caused a firestorm : from 1995 to 1997 , rice served as special assistant to president bill clinton and senior director for african affairs at the nsc at the white house.the daily caller : u.n .
ambassador susan rice , reportedly the leading contender to be president barack obama s next national security adviser , failed during the 1990s to prevent unnecessary deaths in rwanda , provide adequate security prior to the bombings of the embassies in kenya and tanzania , or deal effectively with robert mugabe s dictatorship in zimbabwe.a former state department military adviser to africa thought rice s inexperience caused president bill clinton s feckless response to the rwandan genocide when she served as national security council director for international organizations and peacekeeping .
and documents sent to the daily caller from the national legal and policy center show rice failed to take seriously repeated islamist threats against the u.s. embassies in the prelude to deadly bomb attacks .
this woman has zero credibility and is a true racist who would be tossed out of her job if she were white and said government was too black .
furthermore , she s giving a commencement speech and she s politicizing it ! susan rice felt students should be required to take black history : in a 1986 book by u.s .
ambassador to the united nations susan rice , the future diplomat argued for the aggressive inclusion of a black history curriculum in american schools , claiming that its omission had crippling effects by providing a child with no more than a white interpretation of reality .
she s yet another one of obama s minions with a radical racist past who s pushing the obama agenda of a fundamental transformation .
rice attended stanford university and was a black radical back in the day is anyone surprised by this ?
probably not in a white house often accused of being stacked with loyalists , president obama s national security adviser said wednesday there are too many white people in key government posts , endangering national security because they think alike.speaking at florida international university s commencement , susan e. rice , who is black , said a diversified government workforce is more likely to yield better outcomes than a predominantly white one.referring to criticism that the u.s. national security workforce is white , male and yale , ms. rice told the graduates , in the halls of power , in the faces of our national security leaders , america is still not fully reflected .
by now , we should all know the dangers of groupthink , where folks who are alike often think alike , she said .
by contrast , groups comprised of different people tend to question one another s assumptions , draw on divergent perspectives and experiences , and yield better outcomes .
her comments were reminiscent of supreme court justice sonia sotomayor , who said in a speech in 2001 , before mr. obama appointed her to the high court , i would hope that a wise latina woman with the richness of her experiences would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male who hasn t lived that life .
ms. rice elaborated in her speech on how having more minorities in the national security field would better protect the homeland.read more : wt read more : fox news