cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - at least two people have died after a boat carrying refugees fleeing myanmar capsized on its way to bangladesh on sunday , local authorities told reuters .
the boat sank near shah porir dwip , on the southern tip of bangladesh , said lieutenant colonel ariful islam , the local commander of border guard bangladesh .
he confirmed via sms that the bodies of a boy and an elderly woman had been recovered in the water while eight others had been rescued .
the rescue operation was ongoing on early monday morning , local time , and the number of missing unknown , he said .
more than 500,000 ethnic rohingya muslims have fled myanmar since aug. 25 , when an attack by rohingya militants on police and military posts in rakhine state sparked a ferocious response from myanmar s security forces which the united nations described as ethnic cleansing .
myanmar s government denies the allegations of ethnic cleansing and has labeled as terrorists the militants from the arakan rohingya salvation army who launched the initial attacks .
six weeks after the violence erupted , rohingya continue to stream into neighboring bangladesh by land and sea amid reports that myanmar s military and buddhist mobs have targeted rohingyas with summary killings and burned villages .
myanmar , a mostly buddhist nation , does not recognize the rohingya muslims as citizens , even though many have lived in rakhine for generations .
after waves of violence in the past five years , about 1 million rohingya have been forced to move to bangladesh .
the overturned vessel is the latest of a series of deadly mishaps at sea involving rohingya refugees .
most recently , on sept. 28 , a boat carrying about 80 refugees overturned .
seventeen survived , while 23 were confirmed dead and the remainder declared missing .
on sept. 6 , 46 bodies were recovered after another boat sunk in the narrow stretch of water that separates myanmar and bangladesh .
among the dead were 19 children , 18 women and 9 men .