kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian lawmakers voted through a long-delayed overhaul of the health system on thursday that the state s western backers say will raise standards and tackle a culture of bribe-taking in surgeries and hospitals .
the european union and the international monetary fund have been pressing for faster reform is a country where lives are more than five years shorter than the european average , according to the world health organization .
but opponents of the changes , including many opposition mps , say the more western-style system will force patients to pay for their medicines for the first time , leaving the poorest with no healthcare .
the legislation lets patients choose their own doctor , rather than have one foisted on them - a move the government said would encourage medics to improve service and give them less opportunity to demand kickbacks for treatment .
the bill also sets out which medicines are paid for by the state and which ones patients will have to buy themselves .
backers have said it would be clearer than the present system , where medicines are in theory covered by the state , but patients often have to pay to get hold of pills when supplies run short .
the government s task is to provide a quality medical system for citizens rather than do nothing and tolerate the misery that we have in ukrainian hospitals , prime minister volodymyr groysman told parliament after the vote passed .
the government has been pushing for closer links to the european union since a popular uprising ousted pro-russian former president viktor yanukovich in 2014 .
ambassadors from the g7 leading powers released a statement saying the legislation was a sign that ukraine is ready and committed to moving forward with its vital reforms .
the legislation , which was steered by the united states-born acting health minister ulana suprun , has undergone 893 amendments and faced repeated criticism , including from olga bogomolets , the head of the parliamentary healthcare committee .
bogomolets said on facebook on thursday the changes would result in hospital closures and fewer doctors and medicines in rural areas , calling them tantamount to genocide .
supporters of the changes say vested interests who benefit from corruption in the current system spread scare stories about the reform .
protesters camped outside parliament this week accusing president petro poroshenko of stalling on other legislation , including the creation of special anti-corruption courts and a move to strip lawmakers of automatic immunity .