berlin ( reuters ) - three of germany s main parties have raised objections to the far-right alternative for germany s ( afd ) candidate for the post of parliamentary vice president , highlighting its political isolation despite a strong showing in the sept. 24 election .
the anti-immigrant afd swept into the bundestag lower house of parliament with 12.6 percent of the vote , making it the third largest parliamentary group .
it is the first far-right party to enter the bundestag since the 1950s .
all parties represented in the bundestag are entitled to have their own vice president of the parliament , who chairs sessions , sets the agenda and calls lawmakers to order where necessary .
but the candidates need to be approved by an absolute majority of all sitting lawmakers .
the greens , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the radical left party spoke out against the afd s nomination of 75-year-old albrecht glaser , who has called islam a political ideology rather than a religion , and said muslims should not have the right to freedom of religion as islam did not respect that freedom .
their objections demonstrated the difficulties the afd may face in pushing its agenda - ranging from immigration and an insistence that islam does not belong in germany to problems it sees in the euro zone .
the parliamentary vice presidents are generally elected in the first session of the lower house , which is expected to take place by oct. 24 at the latest .
chancellor angela merkel s conservative bloc has so far not taken a public position on the afd s choice .
michael grosse-broemer , the head of the conservatives parliamentary group , declined to comment on monday .
carsten schneider , parliamentary manager of the center-left social democrats ( spd ) , told reuters tv he did not know glaser personally , did not want to pre-judge him and would seek to clarify with other parliamentary groups whether they could get to know glaser in some format first .
however , dietmar bartsch , head of the left s parliamentary group , and cem ozdemir of the greens told newspaper frankfurter allgemeine zeitung they would not vote glaser into the position .
whoever questions the freedom of religion has disqualified themselves , ozdemir said .
a representative of the fdp also expressed doubts about the afd s choice of glaser .
glaser was a member of chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) for 40 years until quitting in 2012 and helping to found the afd in 2013 .
alexander gauland , head of the afd s parliamentary group , told reuters his party was sticking to its choice of candidate .
we all share mr glaser s opinion so it s completely clear , he said .
gauland provoked outrage by saying during the election campaign that germans should be proud of their world war two soldiers .
european commission president jean-claude juncker told mass-selling bild newspaper that gauland was not conscious enough of the feelings of other european countries who suffered under nazi rule .
i won t accuse the whole afd or its voters of being total nazis - that would be simplistic - but if you re head of a group in germany s bundestag you need to consider how germany s neighbors feel .
and gauland doesn t do that , he said .