kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian investigators on tuesday said they had opened a criminal case into suspected extortion by officials at a sister anti-corruption agency , based partly on information from a whistleblower who also implicated the president s office .
the national agency on corruption prevention ( nazk ) is a keystone of western-backed reforms but has been criticized for making slow progress with its main task of verifying officials wealth declarations for evidence of ill-gotten gains .
nabu - a sister agency investigating high-profile corruption cases - said it opened the case against nazk officials on suspicion they received undue benefits in especially large amounts , combined with the extortion of such benefits .
officials at other state bodies are also being investigated , a nabu spokeswoman said , without giving further details .
while details of the case are not yet clear , the fact that a state-run anti-corruption agency is itself being investigated for corruption suggests the authorities still have progress to make in their promised drive to eliminate graft .
the nabu spokeswoman said the case was opened on nov. 10 partly due to information from the former head of nazk s financial control department , hanna solomatina .
earlier on tuesday , solomatina said she had decided to resign and hand over evidence to nabu after realizing an online wealth declaration tool managed by nazk was compromised .
in reality , the e-declarations system is used to cover officials loyal to the authorities ... and for the self-enrichment of the head of nazk and nazk members , solomatina said in a briefing .
nazk is not an independent body , but is completely controlled by the authorities , she said .
she described how she had been summoned to the administration of president petro poroshenko and told nazk s decisions should first be checked with the president s office .
in a statement , the presidential administration denied solomatina s allegations .
we have no way to influence the work of nazk , it said .
nazk also denied solomatina s account and said it would lodge a claim in court to refute her comments .
we stress that the widespread information of the ex-official ( solomatina ) , without concrete facts , is a personal attack on the chairperson , members and staff of the state agency and an attempt to discredit successfully launched anti-corruption reforms in ukraine , it said .
following the ouster of a moscow-backed president in 2014 , ukraine s new pro-western authorities promised to root out graft and modernize the economy in exchange for billions of dollars in international funding .
but ukraine s backers have seen a failure to bring corrupt lawmakers and senior officials to justice as an indication the authorities may lack the commitment to eliminate the power of vested interests .