dubai ( reuters ) - a saudi cleric who said women should not drive because their brains shrink to a quarter the size of a man s when they go shopping has been banned from preaching , state television said .
saad al-hijri was suspended from all religious activity after advising against allowing women to drive in a speech that contained comments diminishing human value , the broadcaster quoted a spokesman for the governor of asir province as saying .
ultra-conservative saudi arabia is the only country in the world that bans women from driving , despite ambitious government targets to increase their public role , especially in the workforce .
women in the kingdom are also bound by law to wear long robes and a headscarf and require the consent of a male guardian for most legal actions .
in a video identifying him as the head of the religious edicts department in the southern province , hijri asked what the traffic department would do it if it discovered a man with only half a brain .
would it give him a license or not ?
it would not .
so how can it give it to a woman when she has only half ?
he said .
if she goes to the market she loses another half .
what is left ?
a quarter ... we demand the traffic department check because she is not suitable to drive and she has only a quarter .
the comments sparked anger on social media , which is hugely popular in the kingdom .
twitter users shared the video , many criticising it and making jokes about his remarks , under the arabic hashtag al-hijri_women_quarter_brain some users posted pictures of saudi female scientists and academics in response and questioned hijri s own intellectual capacities .
his suspension , ordered by the provincial governor , was aimed at preventing the spread of views that spark controversy and do not serve the national interest , the provincial spokesman said , according to ekhbariya tv s official twitter account .
any others who used religious platforms to preach such views would also be banned .
the government s modernizing reforms , backed by saudi arabia s business class , have sparked tensions with influential clerics upon whose support the ruling family relies .
some clerics have millions of followers on social media .