washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential front-runner candidate donald trump on wednesday unveiled proposals for reforming u.s. healthcare that included repealing obamacare , allowing prescription drugs to be imported , and turning the medicaid program for the poor into block grants to states .
the plan also calls for the sale of health insurance plans across state lines , full deduction of health insurance premiums from income tax and adds : `` we must also make sure that no one slips through the cracks simply because they can not afford insurance . ''
( here ) trump , who is the front-runner in the race to become the republican nominee in november ’ s presidential election , is also proposing allowing individuals to use health savings accounts ( has ) to pay for out-of-pocket expenses .
contributions to hsas would be tax-free and could be passed on to heirs without any tax penalty .
the proposals include requiring “ ... price transparency from all healthcare providers , especially doctors and healthcare organizations like clinics and hospitals .
individuals should be able to shop to find the best prices for procedures , exams or any other medical-related procedure. ” on drug prices , trump departs from standard republican policy by calling for lowering barriers to cheaper imported pharmaceuticals .
“ allowing consumers access to imported , safe and dependable drugs from overseas will bring more options to consumers , ” the statement says , adding that “ congress will need the courage to step away from the special interests and do what is right for america. ” the proposals also call for reforming mental health programs and institutions , but provides few details about how to do this .
trump also called for tighter enforcement of immigration laws , a key plank in his campaign platform , as a way to bring down healthcare costs .
“ providing healthcare to illegal immigrants costs us some $ 11 billion annually .
if we were to simply enforce the current immigration laws and restrict the unbridled granting of visas to this country , we could relieve healthcare cost pressures on state and local governments , ” the proposal statement says .
democrats were quick to criticize the plan .
“ as democrats have said all along , donald trump is not an outsider engaging in a hostile takeover of the gop – in fact , he embodies the republican party .
“ the fact that his healthcare ‘ plan ’ is clearly cribbed from worn-out and false gop talking points proves that trump is just another republican politician who wants to take healthcare away from millions of americans without offering any substantive alternative , ” democratic national committee communications director luis miranda said in a statement .