benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - eastern libyan military commander khalifa haftar , whose forces control parts of the country , said on sunday the u.n.-backed government was obsolete and he would listen to the will of the people , a firm hint he may run in elections expected next year .
haftar styles himself as a strongman capable of ending the chaos of armed factions that has gripped oil-producing libya since the overthrow of muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
his comments , made at a military graduation ceremony , recall those of egyptian general abdel fattah al-sisi when he was testing the ground before becoming a presidential candidate .
sisi was eventually elected in 2014 .
just as sisi built up wide support after toppling egypt s islamist president mohamed mursi in 2013 , supporters of haftar speak of a similar situation developing in libya , with rallies held in some eastern cities calling on him to run .
we declare clearly and unequivocally our full compliance with the orders of the free libyan people , which is its own guardian and the master of its land , haftar said in a speech .
he spoke in the eastern city of benghazi , from where his forces managed to expel islamist militants during a three-year battle .
haftar also dismissed a series of united nations-led talks to bridge differences between libya s two rival administrations , one linked to him in the east and one backed by the united nations in the capital tripoli , which he now declared obsolete .
despite all the brilliant slogans during talks between rivals for power from the dialogue of ghadames ( libya ) and ending in tunisia via geneva , skhirat ( morocco ) and others , all of were just ink on paper , he said , listing host cities of u.n. talks .
the u.n. has tried to find a solution including haftar who said his command had been threatened with sanctions should he seek a deal outside the dialogue .
some 1,000 haftar supporters rallied in benghazi , demanding the general take over after a u.n. deal for a political solution missed what they said was a self-imposed deadline on sunday .
the u.n. says no such timeline exists and its mediation will continue .
the turnout was smaller than initially expected .
in tripoli , home to a government opposed by haftar , an unknown armed faction opened fire in the air to disperse some 150 supporters of the general on the central martyrs square , witnesses said .
nobody was hurt .
the u.n. launched a new round of talks in september in tunis between the rival factions to prepare for presidential and parliamentary elections in 2018 , but they broke off after one month without any deal .
a formidable obstacle to progress was the issue of haftar s own rule .
he remains popular among some libyans in the east weary of the chaos but faces opposition from many in western libya .
in his speech haftar said his forces , known as the libyan national army ( lna ) , could only be placed under an authority that had been elected by the libyan people - a further indication that he might take part in the election .
the large north african country has been in turmoil since gaddafi s downfall opened up space to islamist militants and smuggling networks that have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants across the mediterranean to europe .
haftar is just one of many players in libya , which is controlled by armed groups divided along political , religious , regional and business lines .
aguila saleh , president of the eastern house of representatives that backs haftar , said it was time to start preparing for parliamentary and presidential elections , according to a video posted on social media .