simi valley , calif ( reuters ) - the u.s. agency tasked with protecting the country from missile attacks is scouting the west coast for places to deploy new anti-missile defenses , two congressmen said on saturday , as north korea s missile tests raise concerns about how the united states would defend itself from an attack .
west coast defenses would likely include terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) anti-ballistic missiles , similar to those deployed in south korea to protect against a potential north korean attack .
the accelerated pace of north korea s ballistic missile testing program in 2017 and the likelihood the north korean military could hit the u.s. mainland with a nuclear payload in the next few years has raised the pressure on the united states government to build-up missile defenses .
on wednesday , north korea tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) that can fly over 13,000 km ( 8,080 miles ) , placing washington within target range , south korea said on friday .
republican party congressman mike rogers , who sits on the house armed services committee and chairs the strategic forces subcommittee which oversees missile defense , said the missile defense agency ( mda ) , was aiming to install extra defenses at west coast sites .
the funding for the system does not appear in the 2018 defense budget plan indicating potential deployment is further off .
it s just a matter of the location , and the mda making a recommendation as to which site meets their criteria for location , but also the environmental impact , the alabama congressman told reuters during an interview on the sidelines of the annual reagan national defense forum in southern california .
after this story was published congressman rogers told reuters in a statement he was unaware of any effort by the department of defense to locate additional intermediate missile defense assets on the west coast .
he added that his earlier comments to reuters should not be interpreted as confirmation of such an effort .
reuters global head of communications , abbe serphos , said we stand by our story .
when asked about the plan , mda deputy director rear admiral jon hill said in a statement : the missile defense agency has received no tasking to site the terminal high altitude air defense system on the west coast .
the mda is a unit of the u.s. defense department .
congressman rogers did not reveal the exact locations the agency is considering but said several sites are competing for the missile defense installations .
rogers and congressman adam smith , a democrat representing the 9th district of washington , said the government was considering installing the thaad anti-missile system made by aerospace giant lockheed martin corp , at west coast sites .
the congressmen said the number of sites that may ultimately be deployed had yet to be determined .
thaad is a ground-based regional missile defense system designed to shoot down short- , medium- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles and takes only a matter of weeks to install .
in addition to the two thaad systems deployed in south korea and guam in the pacific , the u.s. has seven other thaad systems .
while some of the existing missiles are based in fort bliss , texas , the system is highly mobile and current locations are not disclosed .
a lockheed martin representative declined to comment on specific thaad deployments , but added that the company is ready to support the missile defense agency and the united states government in their ballistic missile defense efforts .
he added that testing and deployment of assets is a government decision .
in july , the united states tested thaad missile defenses and shot down a simulated , incoming intermediate-range ballistic missile ( irbm ) .
the successful test adds to the credibility of the u.s. military s missile defense program , which has come under intense scrutiny in recent years due in part to test delays and failures .
currently , the continental united states is primarily shielded by the ground-based midcourse defense system ( gmd ) in alaska and california as well as the aegis system deployed aboard u.s. navy ships .
the thaad system has a far higher testing success rate than the gmd .
the mda told congress in june that it planned to deliver 52 more thaad interceptors to the u.s. army between october 2017 and september 2018 , bringing total deliveries to 210 since may 2011 .
north korea s latest missile test puts the u.s. capital within range , but pyongyang still needs to prove it has mastered critical missile technology , such as re-entry , terminal stage guidance and warhead activation , south korea said on friday .