bucharest ( reuters ) - romania s ruling social democrats endorsed on thursday a government reshuffle proposed by prime minister mihai tudose in a move that could strengthen his position within the party and lend his cabinet credibility within the european union .
three ministers will resign , party senior members said , including deputy prime minister sevil shhaideh , a close ally of party leader liviu dragnea , who holds a tight grip over party ranks but can not be prime minister because of a previous conviction in a vote rigging case .
earlier this week , tudose said that corruption allegations surrounding shhaideh and european funds minister rovana plumb had created problems for his government with the european commission .
both will resign , as will transport minister razvan cuc .
the party will decide their replacements on friday .
transparency international ranks romania among the european union s most corrupt states and brussels is keeping its justice system under special monitoring .
we have a reality and a perception , tudose told reporters on wednesday .
the reality is the presumption of innocence , but the perception in brussels is completely different .
on thursday , tudose said he hoped shhaideh would choose to stay in public administration in a different position .
some analysts have said tudose was using the corruption allegations to gain more control over government decisions .
the government is under pressure from the party to enforce an ambitious governing program that includes tax cuts , public sector wage and pension hikes , as well as a judicial overhaul that could threaten magistrates independence that has raised concerns with the european commission .
we communicated badly with each other , dragnea told reporters after a six-hour senior party meeting .
we can not make that mistake again , put the party and the government at risk .
anti-corruption prosecutors said in september they were investigating shhaideh for suspected abuse of office in a land transfer case , and have asked parliament to approve an investigation into plumb linked to the same case .
both have denied wrongdoing .
the reshuffle comes a little over three months since the cabinet was sworn in after the ruling coalition toppled its first prime minister at end-june .
tudose has said he was not afraid to resign , which would have automatically toppled the cabinet .
analysts said the social democrats accepted the reshuffle rather than risk going with a third prime minister proposal to centrist president klaus iohannis , a rival , who must approve premiers .
if this government were to fall as well , then i would certainly ask myself very seriously whether the psd still has the capacity to govern , iohannis told reporters earlier on thursday .
for now , we are not in this position .