beijing ( reuters ) - china is tightening security for next month s twice-a-decade communist party congress , cancelling police leave in beijing , limiting tourism to tibet , and clamping down on the spread of political rumors .
high-level meetings in china are typically accompanied by a security crackdown - as well as uncharacteristically smog-free blue skies - with the stability-obsessed party not wanting to run the risk that anyone or anything offers a distraction .
thousands of policemen from other provinces have been sent to the chinese capital to reinforce , a source with direct knowledge of the matter told reuters .
a second source , with ties to the country s security forces and citing conversations with senior police officers , said all police leave in beijing had been canceled starting from early september .
beijing communist party chief cai qi on wednesday asked the city for 120 percent effort to ensure safety for the congress , the official beijing daily said .
we must hold the line for social control , eliminate all destabilizing factors , hold the line for cyber security and resolutely crack down on political rumors and harmful news , cai said .
beijing s largest market for metal building materials will be shuttered from friday and is being relocated to hebei province taking with it more than 10,000 industry workers and stall owners , according to the beijing daily .
the market s unceasing growth had created a messy environment where migrants congregate , the paper said , without mentioning the crucial party gathering .
many of the tightened security measures target migrants , with id checks at metro stations and patrols outside government ministries to ensure any petitioners from out of town are rounded up immediately should they attempt to make a scene .
some 2,000 delegates will converge on beijing for the congress , staying at hotels across the city , and security will only get tighter as its opening nears , meaning any protests will be quickly shut down .
china s ongoing clampdown on cyberspace has seen whatsapp , the messaging service run by facebook , periodically unavailable in the past few weeks , while certain gifs using images of president xi jinping can not be posted to group chats on messenger app wechat .
china s internet regulator , in a statement to reuters , said the government had the legal right to prevent the spread of violent , terrorist and other illegal information .
as a well-known global app , whatsapp should really proactively take steps to block the dissemination and spread of illegal information , it said , without elaborating or making a specific mention of wechat .
new limits have been placed on discussion in private group chats .
rules released at the beginning of september make companies and group owners accountable for breaches of content rules .
china s cyber watchdog on monday also imposed the largest possible fines of 100,000 yuan ( $ 15,110 ) on tech giants tencent holdings ltd , baidu inc and weibo corp for failing to censor online content .
the measures are far from restricted to just keeping beijing secure .
measures have also been introduced in strategically sensitive places in other parts of china .
security has been heightened at ports along the yangtze river , with the maritime safety administration saying last week that it was considering curbs on loading and unloading hazardous or flammable chemicals from oct 11 to oct 28 .
travel for foreign tourists to tibet is also being restricted , some travel agents said .
tibet is always sensitive for beijing given the opposition to chinese rule that exists within the tibetan community , and even in normal times foreigners need permission to go there .
an official at china international travel service ltd said the government had told it that no foreigners were allowed to visit tibet from oct. 18-28 because of the congress .
three other travel agencies confirmed a ban would be lifted in late october .
organizers of a discussion on politics in the middle east canceled the event in beijing because they were worried about potential pressure from the authorities , a source with direct knowledge of the matter told reuters .
the word democracy was only used once in the adverts , not in a sensitive way , but still they thought it was best to cancel , the source said , declining to be named .
feng xiaogang , a famous chinese film director known for work that brushes against sensitive issues and the limits of censorship , announced last week that the sept 30 release of youth , his latest film , had to be delayed .
feng gave no explanation .
however , a source with ties to the censors told reuters that the authorities had considered it risky to screen the film before the congress , as it is partially set during china s 1979 war with vietnam - a touchy subject .
the fear was that it could spark debate about the morality and necessity of the conflict .
in and around beijing , efforts have also been ramped up to ensure the skies remain blue over the congress and not polluted by the city s notorious smog .
the city of handan , near beijing , has ordered steel mills to halve output a month earlier than the usual mid-november cutbacks aimed at curbing air pollution , according to media reports .
rounds of inspections by the authorities to check up on health and safety or environmental requirements have left small businesses closed for days , weeks or months , owners and employees say .
factories on the outskirts of beijing , even those that make luxury goods , have been closed for days while inspections are carried out , according to one employee who declined to be named .
some low-end , fast food-type restaurants in beijing have also been ordered to close , ostensibly to prevent fire risks and to limit pollution , residents say .
there s so many inspections at the moment , said a pancake seller who gave her family name as liu .
what am i supposed to do if they make me shut ?