san antonio ( reuters ) - the mayor of the south texas town of crystal city , arrested earlier this month on federal corruption charges , was arrested again by his own police department for unruly behavior at a meeting that sought his resignation , police said on wednesday .
ricardo lopez was charged with disorderly conduct following a chaotic city council meeting on tuesday night at which citizens presented petitions calling for the mayor , two other council members and the city manager , all of whom were also indicted , to step down .
the meeting was the first since the town that bills itself as “ the spinach capital ” of the world found that most of its leaders had been indicted in the federal probe .
u.s. prosecutors charged the officials with dipping into city coffers for their own personal gain .
lopez posted bail on wednesday and left jail , telling reporters he had no intention of attending future city council meetings .
“ don ’ t care who the mayor is .
don ’ t care if i ’ m the mayor .
i ’ m not going to another council meeting .
because i don ’ t want to be put in jail again , ” he said .
he did not say whether he intends to resign .
witnesses said during tuesday ’ s council meeting , lopez tried to dispute calls for his resignation , yelled at spectators and left to fetch a copy of the city charter .
when he returned , pushing and shoving ensued between lopez and angry citizens , and the mayor was arrested , police said .
lopez , two other council members , and the city manager were indicted on feb. 4 .
they were charged with collecting bribes from city contractors for permits and other favors and using the money to pay off gambling debts , bar tabs and car loans .
they were also suspected of allowing an illegal gambling house to operate in the town of about 7,500 people .
another crystal city councilman was indicted in january on charges of smuggling undocumented immigrants .
crystal city is known for a quirky tourist attraction of a large statue of the spinach-eating cartoon character popeye in front of city hall that celebrates the area ’ s history as a spinach producer .
it holds an annual spinach festival .