21st century wire says organized efforts are underway by democratic party affiliated ngo s to try and somehow delegitimize the results of this week s us presidential election .
on the eve of the us election before voters went to the polls , 21wire political affairs analyst patrick henningsen accurately predicted this week s unrest when he said : if trump wins , expect the likes of soros and moveon.org to unleash wave after wave of flash mobs , who will protest , riot , smash and burn their way on to cnn s 24 hour news rotation .
expect occupy 2.0 , and # blacklivesmatter to rage .
on friday , henningsen talked to rt international about the post-elections protests that were coordinated in part by democratic party community organizing online platform moveon.org .
watch : see also : ( video ) female college students protesting because trump is a rapist 21wire associate editor shawn helton recently revealed more details about how the near exact same methods used in cia and soros-funded color revolutions overseas are now being deployed on us domestic shores by similar ngo front organizations : has been the driving force behind nationwide protests against the election of donald trump .
overseas , washington tends to use the same cast of ngo fronts to build-up pro-us political opposition groups , as well as plan and generate civil unrest .
they include the albert einstein institute ( aei ) , national endowment for democracy ( ned ) , international republican institute ( iri ) , national democratic institute ( ndi ) , freedom house and later the international center for non-violent conflict ( icnc ) , and the us agency for international development ( usaid ) , the financial and contractor arm of the department of state .
inside the us , deep state actors in washington generally work through democratic party affiliated organizations like moveon.org , as well as through labor union organizations like afl-cio , and unite here .
these , along with many other similar organizations have been involved in organizing this week s protests , says helton .
helton also raised the question as to why president obama has stayed silent in the face of street protests , opting instead to lead from behind .
he explains : certainly , judging by president obama and hillary clinton s total silence over their own party s role in fomenting this week s unrest one can only conclude that both party leaders approve of the protests and riots .
the political motivation is undeniable to help delegitimize a new trump presidency .
stay tuned for more updates here at 21wire.read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv