flint , mich. ( reuters ) - the flint water crisis has united democrats hillary clinton and bernie sanders in outrage , but some residents suffering through the city ’ s major public health scandal want more than talking points from the presidential contenders .
as flint becomes the focal point of the michigan primary battle when it hosts a nationally televised debate on sunday , residents want to see clinton and sanders push harder for funding to replace the city ’ s crumbling water pipes , pay for long-term medical needs and lower their water bills .
“ we don ’ t want our pain to be exploited as a political backdrop .
we need more from both of the candidates , ” said nayyirah shariff , a flint resident and co-founder of the activist flint democracy defense league who has met with both clinton and sanders .
the crisis in flint , a predominantly black city of 100,000 , was triggered when an emergency city manager installed by governor rick snyder switched the city ’ s water supply from lake huron to the nearby flint river to save money .
the change corroded flint ’ s aging pipes and released lead and other toxins into the water supply , exposing thousands of residents including children to high lead levels that have sparked serious health problems .
the crisis has sparked national outrage and led to calls for snyder to resign .
both democratic presidential contenders have raced to condemn the water contamination and criticize republican snyder for a slow state response , linking it to broader racial and economic inequities .
but melissa mays , who has suffered seizures since the contamination and has three children with elevated lead levels in their blood , said she has not gone to local events where clinton and sanders met with residents .
“ i ’ m not going to be used like that .
i ’ m not going to be a token , ” said mays , founder of water you fighting for ? , another activist group .
“ do something first , then i ’ ll show up. ” president barack obama declared a state of emergency in flint in january , but lawmakers in congress have been unable to agree on a funding package to replace aging pipes .
the issue will get a full national airing from the democratic presidential candidates in a debate in flint scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. est on sunday .
republican presidential candidates have steered clear of flint on the campaign trail , but when u.s .
senator marco rubio was asked about flint during thursday ’ s debate in detroit he defended snyder and said the “ politicizing ” of the crisis was unfair .
the u.s. presidential election is in november .
both clinton and sanders , who are vying for support from black voters in michigan and nationally , have highlighted the crisis in flint as an example of racial and economic inequality .
clinton was quick to jump on the issue , sending aides to flint to meet with local officials , visiting the city on feb. 7 and pressing for adding the debate in flint .
she was rewarded with an endorsement from flint mayor karen weaver and several black pastors in the region .
sanders also waded into the controversy , quickly calling for snyder ’ s resignation , but he did not visit flint until feb. 25 , more than two weeks after clinton .
clinton gets credit from some residents for her aggressive approach , even if some see it as political expediency .
“ she has certainly tried to bring a great deal of awareness to what has gone in flint , ” said rev .
allen overton , a member of the flint-area concerned pastors for social action group and a clinton supporter .
“ sanders is trying to catch up. ” the rev .
dan scheid of st. paul ’ s episcopal church in flint said the crisis raises questions about race and class - issues ripe for political exploitation .
“ the cynic in me would say there is an understandable level of opportunism taking place , ” scheid said .
“ but any attention the candidates can bring in putting this injustice in front of the country is helpful. ” keri webber , whose entire family has been afflicted with an array of illnesses , including a daughter with lead in her bones , said she was frustrated by the parade of politicians expressing sympathy for flint but taking few concrete steps to help .
“ the democrats are trying to build a name off us , and the republicans couldn ’ t tell you where flint , michigan , is , ” webber said .
( in 4th paragraph , corrects original source of flint water supply to lake huron ) ( editing by paul thomasch and matthew lewis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .