budapest ( reuters ) - hungary will not change its anti-immigration stance after the european union s top court dismissed a challenge against migrant quotas , prime minister viktor orban said on friday .
the eu s highest court ruled on wednesday that member states must take in a share of refugees who reach europe , dismissing the challenge by slovakia and hungary and re-igniting an east-west row that has shaken eu cohesion .
we must take note of the ruling as we can not erode the foundation of the eu - and respect of law is the foundation of the eu - but at the same time this court ruling is no reason for us to change our policy , which rejects migrants , orban told state radio .
the mediterranean migrant crisis of 2015 flooded the balkans , italy and greece with migrants , which prompted the eu to impose mandatory quotas on its member countries for relocating asylum seekers .
the flow of migrants has receded , easing pressure to force compliance on nationalist leaders like orban , who is benefiting from his tough anti-immigrant policies as elections approach in 2018 .
now that the legal challenge has failed , orban said he would pursue a political fight to force the eu to change its mandatory migrant quotas .
the whole issue raises a very serious question of principles : whether we are an alliance of european free nations with the commission representing our joint interests , or a european empire which has its center in brussels and which can issue orders , orban said .
he said eu countries which let in migrants , unlike hungary , decided to do so of their own will and now they can not ask hungary to take a part in correcting their mistake .
it is not us hungarians who question the rules of the club , but the commission had changed the rules and this is unacceptable , orban added .
he said that unlike some of the major member states of the eu , whose colonial legacy has made them immigrant countries , hungary did not have a colonial past .
these countries with colonial legacy , which have become immigrant countries by now , want to impose on us central europeans their own logic ... but hungary does not want to become an immigrant country , orban said .
at the same time , he said hungary was committed to eu membership , because hungarians had decided in a referendum to join the bloc in 2004 .
no government can lead hungary out of the eu as it was the hungarian people which decided to be inside and this is right .