rome ( reuters ) - egyptian billionaire businessman naguib sawiris condemned on friday a crackdown on graft in saudi arabia , saying the purge had undermined the rule of law in the kingdom and would deter investment .
in unusually outspoken comments , sawiris , a well-known business figure in north africa and the middle east , also accused qatar of destabilizing the region , and said there were only a handful of arab nations that were safe to invest in .
saudi security forces rounded up dozens of members of the country s political and business elite last month on the orders of crown prince mohammed bin salman in what was billed as a war on rampant corruption .
sawiris , whose family s orascom businesses have interests ranging from construction to telecommunications , said influential figures should stand up to the crown prince , whom he referred to as this young man .
we need to tell him no .
there is the rule of law and order .
you have a transparent process .
where is the court ?
what is the evidence ?
who is the judge ?
he told a conference in rome , questioning the crown prince s motives .
are you not part of this ?
where did you get your money ?
didn t you do this ?
what is the system ?
he said .
prince mohammed has said saudi arabia needs to modernize and has warned that without reform , the economy will sink into a crisis that could fan unrest .
critics say his purge is aimed at shoring up his own power base , which the saudi government denies .
sawiris said everyone with a conscience should speak out , but added that many were too frightened to do so .
everyone is scared because they have interests there , they have the oil , they have the money .
but you need to have a conscience .
when i say this , i know i am done-for in saudi arabia .
no more business ( there ) .
ok , i don t care .
a monthly reuters poll published on thursday showed middle east fund managers had become more positive towards saudi arabian equities after an initial market sell-off following the launch of the anti-graft drive .
but sawiris , who is not known to have major investments in saudi arabia , predicted business leaders would steer clear of the country in future .
i think after what happened in saudi arabia , no one will invest there , he said .
sawiris also took aim at iran , accusing the country of interfering in the affairs of its neighbors .
he likewise denounced qatar , saying it was funding terror groups .
why don t they take care of the prosperity of their own people instead of financing crazy clergymen who push young men to go and kill ?
he said .
a group of arab nations led by saudi arabia and egypt cut ties with qatar in june , accusing it of fomenting instability .
qatar , a tiny gulf state , has denied supporting militants .
asked where was safe to invest in the arab world , sawiris mentioned egypt , morocco , tunisia , jordan and sudan , but jokingly dismissed lebanon .
the problem with lebanon is they are all sharks and they leave nothing to anyone .
only a crazy person would invest in lebanon , he said .