the mainstream media will never show you both sides of the story , so we will in 2015 , hedge fund magnate anthony scaramucci appeared on fox business network , where he slammed anti-american trump for being another hack who will probably make elizabeth warren as his vice presidential nominee .
scaramucci also delivered a message to trump while he was on a roll , you re an inherited-money dude from queens county .
bring it , donald .
bring it .
the mainstream media will likely play his comments on a loop , as a way to discredit president trump and his new pick to replace the outspoken white house communications director sean spicer.scarmucci s emotional comments were in response to what he perceived to be an attack by trump on hedge fund managers .
during his campaign , trump vowed to reform the tax code to ensure that hedge fund managers paid their fair share of taxes .
he called hedge fund managers paper-pushers , and said he would seek to help the middle-class by lowering their tax burden .
the hedge fund guys are getting away with murder .
they re making a tremendous amount of money .
they have to pay taxes .
i want to lower the rates for the middle class .
the middle class is the one , they re getting absolutely destroyed .
this country doesn t have won t have a middle class very soon .
trump told cbs news.after the announcement was made today about the changing of the guard in the white house communication department , scaramucci appeared on fox to explain his position .
the video below shows the disparaging comments about candidate donald j. trump that scaramucci made on fox business network in 2015 , as well as a clip from today showing scaramucci putting his remarks into context that he made when he was admittedly an unexperienced person in the world of politics .
in addition to apologizing profusely for his misguided remarks , scaramucci also admitted that he was supporting another candidate at the time he made the comments about donald j .
trump.watch : .
@ scaramucci called @ potus a hack in 2015.he has publicly apologized today .
msm may choose not to show his apology .
both clips back to back pic.twitter.com/eueenwqgbl corryn ( @ corrynmb ) july 21 , 2017after his much-talked about attack on undocumented immigrants , republican presidential candidate donald trump is now taking on hedge fund managers , vowing to reform the tax code to ensure they pay their fair share .
in a campaign marked by his now-trademark bombastic style , trump called hedge fund managers paper-pushers , and said he would seek to help the middle-class by lowering their tax burden .
the hedge fund guys are getting away with murder .
they re making a tremendous amount of money .
they have to pay taxes .
i want to lower the rates for the middle class .
the middle class is the one , they re getting absolutely destroyed .
this country doesn t have won t have a middle class very soon , trump told cbs news .