washington ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders , responding to reports president barack obama called on democrats to rally around hillary clinton as the likely nominee , said on thursday it was “ absurd ” to suggest he drop out of the race .
obama privately told a group of democratic donors last friday that sanders was nearing the point at which his campaign against clinton would end , and that the party must soon come together to back her , the new york times reported .
sanders , a vermont senator and self-proclaimed democratic socialist , while saying he did not want to comment directly on obama ’ s reported remarks , pushed back on the idea that his campaign had run its course and he should throw in the towel .
“ the bottom line is that when only half of the american people have participated in the political process ...
i think it is absurd for anybody to suggest that those people not have a right to cast a vote , ” sanders told msnbc in an interview .
the white house on thursday said obama did not indicate which candidate he preferred in his remarks to the donors .
clinton , a former secretary of state in the obama administration , has a large lead in the race for the democratic nomination and she won all five states that were contested on tuesday .
sanders said he will do better in upcoming contests in western states , after losing to clinton in a number of southeastern states .
“ to suggest we don ’ t fight this out to the end would be , i think , a very bad mistake .
people want to become engaged in the political process by having vigorous primary and caucus process .
i think we open up the possibility of having a large voter turnout in november .
that is exactly what we need , ” sanders said .
“ a low voter turnout , somebody like a trump can win .
high voter turnout , the democratic candidate will win , ” he said , referring to donald trump , the front-runner in the race to pick the republican nominee for the november presidential election .