cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - more than 2,600 houses have been burned down in rohingya-majority areas of myanmar s northwest in the last week , the government said on saturday , in one of the deadliest bouts of violence involving the muslim minority in decades .
about 58,600 rohingya have fled into neighbouring bangladesh from myanmar , according to u.n. refugee agency unhcr , as aid workers there struggle to cope .
myanmar officials blamed the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) for the burning of the homes .
the group claimed responsibility for coordinated attacks on security posts last week that prompted clashes and a large army counter-offensive .
but rohingya fleeing to bangladesh say a campaign of arson and killings by the myanmar army is aimed at trying to force them out .
the treatment of myanmar s roughly 1.1 million rohingya is the biggest challenge facing leader aung san suu kyi , accused by western critics of not speaking out for the muslim minority that has long complained of persecution .
former colonial power britain said on saturday it hoped suu kyi would use her remarkable qualities to end the violence .
aung san suu kyi is rightly regarded as one of the most inspiring figures of our age , but the treatment of the rohingya is , alas , besmirching the reputation of burma , foreign minister boris johnson said in a statement .
the clashes and army crackdown have killed nearly 400 people and more than 11,700 ethnic residents have been evacuated from the area , the government said , referring to the non-muslim residents .
it marks a dramatic escalation of a conflict that has simmered since october , when a smaller rohingya attack on security posts prompted a military response dogged by allegations of rights abuses .
a total of 2,625 houses from kotankauk , myinlut and kyikanpyin villages and two wards in maungtaw were burned down by the arsa extremist terrorists , the state-run global new light of myanmar said .
the group has been declared a terrorist organisation by the government .
but human rights watch , which analysed satellite imagery and accounts from rohingya fleeing to bangladesh , said the myanmar security forces deliberately set the fires .
new satellite imagery shows the total destruction of a muslim village , and prompts serious concerns that the level of devastation in northern rakhine state may be far worse than originally thought , said the group s deputy asia director , phil robertson .
near the naf river separating myanmar and bangladesh , new arrivals in bangladesh carrying their belongings in sacks set up crude tents or tried to squeeze into available shelters or homes of locals .
the existing camps are near full capacity and numbers are swelling fast .
in the coming days there needs to be more space , said unhcr regional spokeswoman vivian tan , adding more refugees were expected .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
bangladesh is also growing increasingly hostile to rohingya , more than 400,000 of whom live in the poor south asian country after fleeing myanmar since the early 1990s .
jalal ahmed , 60 , who arrived in bangladesh on friday with a group of about 3,000 after walking from kyikanpyin for almost a week , said he believed the rohingya were being pushed out of myanmar .
the military came with 200 people to the village and started fires ... all the houses in my village are already destroyed .
if we go back there and the army sees us , they will shoot , he said .
reuters could not independently verify these accounts as access for independent journalists to northern rakhine has been restricted since security forces locked down the area in october .
speaking to soldiers , government staff and rakhine buddhists affected by the conflict on friday , army chief min aung hlaing said there is no oppression or intimidation against the muslim minority and everything is within the framework of the law .
the bengali problem was a long-standing one which has become an unfinished job , he said , using a term used by many in myanmar to refer to the rohingya that suggests they come from bangladesh .
many aid programmes running in northern rakhine prior to the outbreak of violence , including life-saving food assistance by the world food programme ( wfp ) , have been suspended since the fighting broke out .
food security indicators and child malnutrition rates in maungdaw were already above emergency thresholds before the violence broke out , and it is likely that they will now deteriorate even further , said pierre peron , spokesman for the u.n. office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs in myanmar .
more than 80,000 children may need treatment for malnutrition in northern rakhine and many of them reported extreme food insecurity , wfp said in july .
in bangladesh , tan of unhcr said more shelters and medical care were needed .
there s a lot of pregnant women and lactating mothers and really young children , some of them born during the flight .
they all need medical attention , she said .
among new arrivals , 22-year-old tahara begum gave birth to her second child in a forest on the way to bangladesh .
it was the hardest thing i ve ever done , she said .