buenos aires ( reuters ) - an argentine submarine with 44 crew on board was missing in the south atlantic two days after its last communication , prompting the navy to step up its search efforts late on friday in difficult , stormy conditions .
the ara san juan was in the southern argentine sea 432 km ( 268 miles ) from the patagonian coast when it sent its last signal on wednesday , naval spokesman enrique balbi said .
the emergency operation was formally upgraded to a search-and-rescue procedure on friday evening after no visual or radar contact was made with the submarine , balbi said .
detection has been difficult despite the quantity of boats and aircraft involved in the search , balbi said , noting that heavy winds and high waves were complicating efforts .
obviously , the number of hours that have passed - two days in which there has been no communication - is of note .
the navy believes the submarine , which left ushuaia en route to the coastal city of mar del plata in buenos aires province , had communication difficulties that may have been caused by an electrical outage , balbi said .
navy protocol would call for the submarine to come to the surface once communication was lost .
we expect that it is on the surface , balbi said .
the german-built submarine , which uses diesel-electric propulsion , was inaugurated in 1983 , making it the newest of the three submarines in the navy s fleet , according to the navy .
president mauricio macri said the government was in contact with the crew s families .
we share their concern and that of all argentines , he wrote on twitter .
we are committed to using all national and international resources necessary to find the ara san juan submarine as soon as possible .
argentina accepted an offer from the united states for a nasa p-3 explorer aircraft , which had been stationed in the southern city of ushuaia and was preparing to depart to antarctica , to fly over the search area , balbi said .
a hercules c-130 from the argentine air force was also flying over the operational area .
brazil , uruguay , chile , peru , britain and south africa had also formally offered assistance .