berlin ( reuters ) - germany s spy chief has warned that russia should be seen as a potential danger rather than as a partner in building european security and said its big military exercise in summer showed an alarmingly high level of modernization in its armed forces .
bruno kahl , head of bnd foreign intelligence , made his remarks in a speech at an event hosted by the hanns seidel foundation think-tank in munich on monday .
an audiofile of the speech was heard by reuters on wednesday .
kahl s remarks come after u.s. intelligence accusations that moscow sought to interfere in the u.s. elections in january and followed similar charges by spanish ministers who say russian-based groups used social media to promote catalonia s independence referendum and destabilize spain .
moscow denies interfering in any foreign elections and accuses the west of a campaign to discredit russia .
kahl said it was important for germany , the u.s.-led nato alliance and the european union to keep a close eye on russian military development .
he said russia s large-scale zapad exercise in summer had shown it was very , very close to meeting its target of modernizing 70 percent of its armed forces by 2020 .
we must stay alert .
peace in europe is no longer a guaranteed fact , he said .
russia s goal included weakening the eu , pushing back the usa , and in particular driving a wedge between the two .
that means , instead of a partner for european security , we have in russia a potential danger , he said .
russian president vladimir putin was determined to prevent the eastward spread of european values to include ukraine which , together with georgia , had no chance of becoming members of nato as long as putin s world view prevailed in moscow , he said .
the threat to germany s security had increased with moscow s stationing of short-range missiles in its kaliningrad enclave , he said .
the world player russia is back .
it will remain an uncomfortable power , and the west must see that realistically , he said , though it was important to maintain some dialogue with moscow despite its assertive actions .