qara bagh , afghanistan ( reuters ) - hundreds of demonstrators rallied near the afghan capital on tuesday to denounce a propaganda leaflet drop by u.s. forces last week that caused widespread offense and forced american commanders to issue an apology .
the leaflet drop near bagram air field , one of the biggest u.s. bases in afghanistan , was intended to encourage people to report insurgents to the authorities and depicted a lion chasing a dog , symbolizing the taliban .
however it prompted widespread outrage as the picture of the dog , considered an unclean animal in islam , incorporated a profession of faith from the quran that forms part of the taliban flag .
the americans have insulted muslims through this action and their beliefs and we will not sit quietly by , said mir rahman , a protester at the rally in qarabagh district near bagram .
if the americans and nato continue to insult islam , they will face the same fate that the russians faced in afghanistan .
u.s. commanders apologized for the leaflet and promised to hold those responsible to account but the affair has caused severe embarrassment at a time of heightened sensitivity over the separate issue of civilian casualties caused by air strikes .
while the nato-led resolute support coalition has generally taken pains to avoid cultural insensitivities , there have been several other examples where international forces , most of which come from non-muslim cultures , have caused offense .
in a previous incident in 2012 , when copies of the quran were mistakenly burned , a number of people died in the following protests .
so far , demonstrations have been on a much smaller scale but some protesters said they might continue .
apologies on their own will never cure any wound , said mehrabuddin , another protester , who like many afghans , goes by one name .
if the americans repeat such an insult in future we will keep up our demonstrations and , if needed , attack bagram base , he said .
last week , the taliban , seeking to establish islamic law after their 2001 ouster , claimed a suicide attack near the entrance to bagram which it said had been launched in retaliation against the leaflets .