ikom , nigeria ( reuters ) - when soldiers burst into her village in southwest cameroon last month with guns blazing , small farmer eta quinta , 32 , raced into the forest with three of her children .
i found a canoe and i used it to cross over with my kids , not knowing where my husband and my ( other ) two kids are , she told reuters across the border in nigeria , where thousands of english-speaking cameroonians have fled in past weeks .
what began last year as peaceful protests by anglophone activists against perceived marginalisation by cameroon s francophone-dominated elite has become the gravest challenge yet to president paul biya , who is expected to seek to renew his 35-years in power in an election next year .
government repression - including ordering thousands of villagers in the anglophone southwest to leave their homes - has driven support for a once-fringe secessionist movement , stoking a lethal cycle of violence .
the secessionists declared an independent state called ambazonia on oct. 1 .
since then , 7,500 people have fled to nigeria , including 2,300 who fled in a single day on dec. 4 fearing government reprisals after raids by separatists militants killed at least six soldiers and police officers .
the united nations refugee agency unhcr is preparing for up to 40,000 refugees .
quinta and her children walked for three days through the dense forests to reach a border crossing at the agbokim waterfalls .
they remain without news of the rest of the family .
there are many pregnant women in the forest , quinta said as she held her sick two-month-old baby whose head was covered by a white wooly hat .
i have friends in the forest and am not sure if i will get to see them again or their kids .
at the end of world war one , germany s colony of kamerun was carved up between allied french and british victors , laying down the basis for a language split that still persists .
english speakers make up less than a fifth of the population of cameroon , concentrated in former british territory near the nigerian border that was joined to the french-speaking republic of cameroon the year after its independence in 1960 .
french speakers have dominated the country s politics since .
cameroonian authorities say the english-speaking separatists pose a security threat that justifies their crackdown .
the new arrivals in nigeria live mainly with host families who have supported them with food , clothing and shelter .
the integration , a unhcr official said , was made easier by the pidgin english spoken on either side of the border .
food and medicine are in limited supply .
four people have died of sicknesses since coming to nigeria and the refugees sometimes sleep as many as 50 to a five-by-seven meter room .
their anger has grown toward a government they feel no longer represents them , which could provide the separatists with easy recruits .
we were walking for peaceful demonstrations ... but it s because of the killing of our innocent people that is why our own people have started reacting , said tiku michael , a businessman , farmer , father of six and now a refugee .
even ... god himself , he will not allow things to go ( on ) like that .