this ex-ice agent reminds us of how ridiculous jill stein s cherry-picked 3 state vote recount effort really is .
meanwhile , the left and the leftist media completely ignore states like ca , where illegal aliens rioted against trump and anyone who supported him , before and after the election over fear of deportation or loss of taxpayer funded benefits .
ca was largely responsible for hillary s slight edge in the popular vote .
without california s lopsided votes for hillary , trump would have won the popular vote by a large margin.a california state bill was just signed in to law in october , 2015 , by gov .
jerry brown , that registers and allows illegal aliens to vote in us elections .
the motor voter act ( a.b.1461 ) automatically registers residents of california to vote at the dmv .
according to the law and a report by the washington times , the new motor voter act automatically registers to vote all eligible voters when they obtain or renew their drivers licenses at the department of motor vehicles instead of requiring them to fill out a form .
the goal is to ease barriers to voting , but election-integrity advocates warn that the measure could inadvertently add millions of illegal voters to the rolls given that california allows undocumented aliens to obtain drivers licenses .
california state officials are praising the law and alex padilla , california s secretary of state says , citizens should not be required to opt in to their fundamental right to vote .
we do not have to opt in to other rights , such as free speech or due process .
the right to vote should be no different .
state assemblywoman lorena gonzalez from san diego said , this bill will lead to millions more registered california voters , which means more people we can talk to .
critics of the law have called it for what it really is .
absolute and complete voter fraud and corruption on a grand scale .
stephen frank from california political review issued a statement saying , a.b .
1461 assures corruption of our elections .
our elections will look like those of mexico and other corrupt nations and honest people will stop voting , since illegals will out vote them .
linda paine of the elections integrity project says , citizens must oppose this treasonous attempt to turn california into a form of government that gives control to non-citizens .
-raw conservativewhen trump tweeted about illegal aliens affecting the outcome of the vote , specifically in ca , politfact was quick to accuse him of being dishonest : grabbing the attention of the golden state , president-elect donald trump claimed in a recent tweet there was serious voter fraud in three states won by hillary clinton during the general election , including california.trump made this claim on sunday during a flood of tweets about voter fraud .
the president-elect also said he would have won the popular vote if not for the millions of people who voted illegally .
politifact national examined that claim and rated it pants on fire.we decided to fact-check trump s eye-opening claim about serious voter fraud in california.our researchtrump offered no evidence about california voter fraud in his series of tweets .
his allegations are completely unfounded , california secretary of state alex padilla said in an interview .
i think it s a big disservice to our country and to our democracy to continue to raise these doubts .
if anything , a message back to mr. trump is , if you have proof , if you have evidence , please bring it forward .
procedures are in place to investigate any real voter fraud .
but as the evidence has shown , the cases of voter fraud across the country are statistically minimal if you go back decades .
padilla s office could not immediately say how many voter fraud complaints it s received for this and past general elections.hillary clinton held a 3.9 million vote lead over trump as of nov. 28 , a margin that s grown substantially as california continues to count the state s many absentee ballots .
broad brush allegations dean logan , president of the california association of clerks and election officials and the top elections official in los angeles county , said in a statement responding to trump s tweets , that the state has a history of accurate and accountable elections .
logan described trump s voter fraud claims as broad brush allegations .
logan added in an email to politifact california that : quantifying complaints or allegations of voter fraud is not a specific data set that we track .
that alone probably gives you a sense of the frequency , but there is no indication that the rate of concern on this issue was higher in this election cycle than in any other .
he added that there are legal avenues for challenging a voter s eligibility .
but none were used before or after the election , he said .
and i think that sort of goes to the point that there s nothing to back up those allegations , logan said.trump s unsupported claim about voter fraud in california may also draw on misinformation about two recent state laws : ab 60 , which allows undocumented immigrants to obtain state driver s licenses ; and the new motor voter act , which by mid-2017 will automatically register citizens to vote when they obtain or renew a driver s license .
politifact ca