baltimore police officers shot a 13-year-old boy who was carrying a toy bb-gun .
the shooting occurred just as the city hit the one-year anniversary of demonstrations after the killing of freddie gray and concerns about police brutality and training swept the country.a 13-year-old boy was shot by a police officer in baltimore on wednesday , after the officer saw what he believed to be a semi-automatic handgun , officials said.what officers thought was a handgun ultimately proved to be a replica bb gun , baltimore police commissioner kevin davis told reporters.the boy was expected to survive his injuries , davis said .
my thoughts and prayers are with him , davis said .
my thoughts and prayers are with his family .
baltimore police later released this photo of the bb gun : police also took in the boy s mother , and video footage was released of that : .
@ namenzie correction : boy shot by cops is not dead .
grainy/compressed vid of mother `` taken in . ''
# baltimoreuprising pic.twitter.com/4wvdasxhjz nicola_a_menzie ( @ namenzie ) april 27 , 2016a police commander was caught on video alleging that the gun looked 1,000 percent real .
new : man records police commander explaining this afternoon 's shooting of 13 yr old .
`` that gun looked 1000 % real '' pic.twitter.com/fetyne8lux justin fenton ( @ justin_fenton ) april 27 , 2016crime reporter justin fenton noted that the shooting comes on a violent week in baltimore , where 16 people have been shot with 9 killed over the last three days.even though the shooting has not yet been completely investigated , the police commissioner told the baltimore sun there is no reason to believe that these officers acted inappropriately in any way .
it is a message that echoes several similar statements issued by police departments seeking to defend their own , only to have supplementary video footage or testimony contradict the claims of officers on the ground.recently the family of 12-year-old tamir rice entered into a legal settlement with the city of cleveland after the child was shot and killed while holding a toy gun .
in that case , police claimed the boy was reaching into his waistband , which prompted the lethal shooting .
surveillance footage proved this was inaccurate , but the officer involved , timothy loehmann , was not indicted.featured image via facebook