riyadh ( reuters ) - prince miteb bin abdullah , born in 1953 , headed the saudi arabian national guard , an elite internal security force originally based on traditional tribal units that was run by his father for five decades .
as the sandhurst-trained preferred son of the late king abdullah , he was once thought to be a leading contender for the throne .
he was also the last remaining member of abdullah s shammar branch of the family to retain a key position at the top of the saudi power structure , after brothers mishaal and turki were relieved of their posts as governors in 2015 .
that run in power ended on saturday , when he was relieved of his post at the national guard by a royal decree .
miteb had been in effective command of the force since his father became the country s de facto leader in 1996 , when king fahd suffered a debilitating stroke , but was only officially named as its commander in 2010 .
he s very pragmatic .
i think he s a lot smarter than people think he is .
and he s very ambitious , said a diplomatic source in the gulf .
his position was consolidated in 2013 when the national guard was given its own ministry and he was named as minister .
the guard formed a power base for king abdullah for decades as a sort of parallel army , serving as a bulwark against any possible military coup and providing the country s powerful tribes with their main link to the government .
its origins can be traced back to the kingdom s founder , king abdulaziz ibn saud , who led white-clad ikhwan tribal warriors in conquering much of the arabian peninsula in the first three decades of the 20th century .
after ibn saud s death , saudi authorities transformed the office of the jihad and mujahideen , which managed the ikhwan and other tribal forces , into the national guard .
it remains administratively distinct from the other two pillars of the saudi security architecture , the ministries of interior and defense .
the national guard today runs military academies , housing projects and hospitals , and is a prodigious source of revenue for u.s. military contractors who train its some 100,000 active members and 27,000 irregular volunteers .
the vinnell corporation , now a subsidiary of northrup grumman , has held contracts to modernize the institution for nearly four decades .
miteb is well-liked by tribal leaders and , more important , by recruits who benefit from his largesse , wrote scholar joseph kechichian in his book power and succession in arab monarchies .
in less than fifty years , the guard transformed a segment of the saudi population from destitute tribal elements into well-off , well-armed , and well-trained recruits .
as commander , miteb also inherited from his father the responsibility for the annual janadariyah festival , which draws millions of saudis each winter to celebrate the traditions , architecture and folklore of the kingdom s various regions .
for many saudis , the festival is a major expression of national pride , safeguarding a cultural heritage that is fast disappearing in the kingdom s rapidly modernizing society .
it is politically beneficial to be associated with it .
prince miteb s business interests are thought to include ownership of the prestigious hotel de crillon in the center of paris , which the french newspaper le figaro reported that he bought in 2010 for $ 354 million .
his father specifically instructed him to distance himself from excessive commercial activities , according to kechichian s book .
he is married to a daughter of saleh fustock , who hails from a lebanese family and whose sister was one of king abdullah s most important wives .
fustock owns arab builders for trading , the local partner for vinnell at the national guard .
the prince is an avid equestrian and his son prince abdullah was part of the bronze-medal-winning saudi equestrian team at the london olympics in 2012 .