( reuters ) - maine governor paul lepage said on friday he would reject the latest budget deal by a bipartisan group of legislators , warning that most of the state government would shut down without more spending cuts .
the second-term republican said repeatedly this week that he would be ready to close down non-essential government services as the july 4 holiday weekend starts if the lawmakers can not agree on a $ 7.055 billion two-year budget that would require no new taxes .
the deal reached late on thursday called for $ 7.1 billion in spending .
“ i ’ m out of ink , ” lepage told reporters in the state capital of augusta .
“ there will not be a signature on a budget that increases taxes. ” the full legislature was due to vote on friday , the day after a six-member bipartisan budget committee reached a deal that would repeal a measure that voters approved in november to impose an additional 3 percent income tax on state residents who earn more than $ 200,000 a year .
the proposed budget also increases public education funding by $ 162 million .
the leaders of maine ’ s democrat-controlled house of representatives and republican-controlled senate supported the measure , but it was unclear if they could garner the two-thirds support needed for passage .
even if they do , state law gives the governor 10 days to respond to any budget passed by the legislature .
lepage said on friday that he was ready to wait that long before vetoing any budget that raises taxes .
most of the government would shut during that time .
without a shutdown , “ i lose all my leverage for negotiation for the next 10 days , ” lepage said , adding that he did not think lawmakers could reach a budget deal on friday that he would accept .
state police , parks and all offices responsible for collecting revenue would continue to operate during a shutdown , lepage has said .
the state ’ s democratic house speaker urged lawmakers to back the budget deal .
“ in a divided government , compromise is the only option , ” speaker sara gideon said in a statement .
a maine advocacy group sued the state in federal court on thursday , seeking an order that would ensure that public assistance payments continue uninterrupted to the 450,000 people , about one in three residents , who receive them .
in 1991 maine ’ s government shut down for several weeks due to a budget impasse , and lawmakers reached a deal only after furloughed state workers picketed the capitol .