gaza ( reuters ) - the red cross said on monday israel has a duty to guarantee the safety and dignity of palestinian families visiting prisoners , after a right-wing lawmaker was filmed shouting abuse aboard a bus taking relatives to a family visit in an israeli jail .
the legislator , oren hazan , boarded the bus at the gaza border with video crews in tow .
he said on twitter he told the relatives that the prisoners were terrorists who belong in the ground .
in a video clip on social media , he shouted at one prisoner s mother that her son was an insect and a dog .
an insect ? , she yelled back .
my son is the best of men .
a dog is whoever calls him a dog .
hazan has a record of staging publicity stunts , including crashing a welcoming ceremony for visiting u.s. president donald trump .
he once agreed to stage a fistfight at the border with a member of jordan s parliament , only to cancel it on the orders of prime minister benjamin netanyahu .
the families on the bus were on their way to nafha prison in southern israel from the gaza strip in a convoy escorted by the international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) .
in a statement , the icrc said it takes very seriously what happened today .
families have the right to visit their loved ones in a dignified manner , suhair zakkout , gaza spokeswoman for the icrc , said in the statement .
it is the responsibility of the competent authorities to ensure that the visits take place safely and without interference .
hazan , a member of netanyahu s likud party , said he confronted the relatives to promote legislation to cancel such family visits until israeli prisoners in gaza and the remains of israeli troops were returned .
hamas , the dominant militant group in the gaza strip , has acknowledged holding three israeli civilians who crossed into the enclave .
in addition , israel is seeking the return of the remains of two soldiers it says were killed in a 2014 gaza war .
hamas has demanded the release of its members who were re-arrested and imprisoned by israel in 2014 for alleged security offences after being released in a 2011 swap for a captured israeli soldier .
israel s prisons service declined comment on the incident .
maximum security nafha prison , in the southern israeli desert , is used mainly to hold palestinians convicted of anti-israeli security offences .
the convoy completed its journey to the facility .
qadoura fares , chairman of the palestinian prisoner club that advocates on behalf of palestinians held by israel , branded hazan a fanatic but said israel s government bears responsibility for this brutal action .