dublin ( reuters ) - irish musician and activist bob geldof called myanmar leader aung san suu kyi a hand maiden to genocide on monday as he returned his freedom of the city of dublin award in protest over his fellow recipient s response to the repression of rohingya muslims .
i don t want to be on a very select roll of wonderful people with a killer , geldof told state broadcaster rte .
someone who is at best a handmaiden to genocide and an accomplice to murder .
more than 600,000 muslims from myanmar s rakhine state have fled to refugee camps in bangladesh after military operations described by the united nations as ethnic cleansing .
their plight has drawn outrage around the world .
but suu kyi , long seen as a champion of human rights , has been criticized for failing to speak out against violence .
there have been calls for her to be stripped of the nobel peace prize she won in 1991 .
suu kyi was given the freedom of dublin in 1999 while she was held under house arrest by mayanmar s then military government .
she received her award at a reception in ireland in 2012 , two years after her release .
her association with our city shames us all and we should have no truck with it , even by default .
we honored her , now she appals and shames us , geldof said in a statement .
the lord mayor of dublin , micheal mac donncha , said the city council had discussed taking away the honor and the matter was still under review .
last month she was stripped of a similar honor by the british university city of oxford , where she was an undergraduate .
but mac donncha , a councillor for the irish nationalist sinn fein party , also criticized geldof s gesture , saying it was ironic as geldof held a british knighthood despite the shameful record of british imperialism across the globe .
the former boomtown rats singer was given an honorary knighted in 1986 in recognition of his charity work , including organizing the 1985 live aid concert to help those suffering from starvation and disease in ethiopia .
other foreign recipients of the freedom of dublin include john f. kennedy , nelson mandela and mikhail gorbachev .
irish rockers u2 , who had campaigned for suu kyi s release while she was a political prisoner , also voiced disappointment and said her silence was starting to look a lot like assent .
who could have predicted that if more than 600,000 people were fleeing from a brutal army for fear of their lives , the woman who many of us believed would have the clearest and loudest voice on the crisis would go quiet , the band said in a statement .
for these atrocities against the rohingya people to be happening on her watch blows our minds and breaks our hearts .
the myanmar military says it launched the crackdown in response to attacks by rohingya militants .