aboard seefuchs rescue ship ( reuters ) - just before the sun dipped into the mediterranean on saturday , rescuers spotted a tiny wooden boat on the horizon .
it turned out to contain five young libyans fleeing violence and turmoil who were waving their arms for help .
the crew of the seefuchs plucked them from the old fishing boat , gave them water and couscous and one of the men , 26-year-old hamza tekbali , explained why they had fled their country .
libya is terrible , tekbali told reuters as he waited to be transferred to an italian coast guard vessel .
in libya , if you do not kill , they will kill you , he said , adding that he feared he would be sent straight back home .
the seefuchs , a ship operated by the humanitarian group sea-eye , carried the men to catania , italy , on wednesday along with 16 other libyans picked up on sunday .
already this year some 800 libyans have reached italy by sea , more than double the number for the whole of 2016 , according to data collected by the u.n. refugee agency ( unhcr ) .
the number is a fraction of the more than 100,000 non-libyan migrants who have come to italy from the country since january , but it suggests that the situation is deteriorating for libyans in their own country .
migrants traveling through libya from elsewhere in africa en route to europe already face terrible conditions .
for the past few months we have seen more libyans , said marco rotunno , who monitors migrant arrivals for unhcr in sicily .
they mostly point to a lack of security as their reason for leaving .
they talk about fighting , kidnappings , ransom and armed robberies .
conditions in libya have deteriorated sharply since a 2011 uprising that ousted muammar gaddafi .
gangs frequently kidnap people for ransom , power and water outages are common , health services have been crippled and residents often have to line-up for days to withdraw cash from banks due to a liquidity crisis .
the united nations is making a new push to end the conflict that has opened the way for islamist militants and armed smuggling groups who have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to europe .
in mid-september , fighting erupted in sabratha , a people smuggling hub on the western coast , after an armed group clamped down on migrant boat departures , prompting a cross-town rival to retaliate .
as of friday , at least 26 civilians and combatants had been killed and 170 wounded .
islamic state militants conduct attacks in libya as well , including one on wednesday that killed at least four people and wounded 39 .
unhcr says there are still more than 217,000 internally displaced people in libya and more than 278,000 who have recently returned home and who are considered people of concern .
tekbali abandoned his hometown of kikla , which is located southwest of tripoli and said it was too dangerous to return .
his friend rafat , who did not give his last name , said he was fleeing libya after having been kidnapped by a militia in 2016 .
he was released after nine days when his father paid a ransom of 120,000 dinar ( $ 87,600 ) but said he feared a repeat .
a third man , 24-year-old alaa , said he was persecuted in libya because his father had fought in gaddafi s military .
tekbali said the five friends planned their voyage for a month and set out from a beach between sabratha and zuwara after paying 5,000 euros ( $ 5,888 ) to smugglers for the boat and the small outboard engine .