the left has officially taken parenting out of our hands via legislation and handed it over to our government the list of things 15-year-olds are not legally allowed to do in oregon is long : drive , smoke , donate blood , get a tattoo even go to a tanning bed.but , under a first-in-the-nation policy quietly enacted in january that many parents are only now finding out about , 15-year-olds are now allowed to get a sex-change operation .
many residents are stunned to learn they can do it without parental notification and the state will even pay for it through its medicaid program , the oregon health plan .
it is trespassing on the hearts , the minds , the bodies of our children , said lori porter of parents rights in education .
they re our children .
and for a decision , a life-altering decision like that to be done unbeknownst to a parent or guardian , it s mindboggling .
in a statement , oregon health authority spokeswoman susan wickstrom explained it this way : age of medical consent varies by state .
oregon law which applies to both medicaid and non-medicaid oregonians states that the age of medical consent is 15 .
while 15 is the medical age of consent in the state , the decision to cover sex-change operations specifically was made by the health evidence review commission ( herc ) .members are appointed by the governor and paid by the state of oregon .
with no public debate , herc changed its policy to include cross-sex hormone therapy , puberty-suppressing drugs and gender-reassignment surgery as covered treatments for people with gender dysphoria , formally known as gender identity disorder.herc officials refused repeated requests by fox news for an interview and even gave fox news inaccurate information about the medical director s work schedule.oregon health authority officials directed fox news to their website .
it shows transgender policy was discussed at four meetings in 2014 .
it was passed without any opposition or even discussion about teenagers new access to undergoing a sex change.gender dysphoria is classified by the american psychiatric association as a mental disorder in which a person identifies as the sex opposite of his or her birth .
it is rare , affecting one out of every 20,000 males and one out of every 50,000 females.according to a 2008 study published in the journal of the american academy of child and adolescent psychiatry , most children with gender dysphoria will not remain gender dysphoric after puberty .
dr. paul mchugh , who led the johns hopkins psychiatry department and still practices , said oregon s policy amounts to child abuse .
we have a very radical and even mutilating treatment being offered to children without any evidence that the long-term outcome of this would be good , mchugh said.dr .
jack drescher , a member of the apa who worked on the sexual and gender identity disorders work group , says treatment for gender dysphoria has received a lot more attention in recent years .
he said this year new york changed its policy to cover cross-sex hormone drugs and sex-reassignment surgery for medicaid recipients who are at least 18 years old .
he thinks oregon is offering the treatment too early .
children age 15 may not fully understand all the consequences of the procedures they are undergoing , he said.jenn burleton disagrees .
she underwent a sex-reassignment surgery and started the portland non-profit group transactive .
she said requiring parental consent would lead to more suffering and teen suicide attempts .
parents may not be supportive , burleton said .
they may not be in an environment where they feel the parent will affirm their identity , this may have been going on for years .
the science is unsettled .
a 2010 murad study concluded very low quality evidence suggests sex reassignment improves gender dysphoria and overall quality of life .
the authors admitted the evidence was sparse and inconclusive .
lisa maloney , a parent and scappoose , ore. , school board member , is outraged .
to know that taxpayers are now on the hook for that , that a child can do that without their parent s knowledge or information or consent , parents have absolutely no say , that s appalling , maloney said.the oregon health authority could not say how many medicaid recipients have been treated for gender dysphoria since the new policy took effect in january .
oregon has 935,000 people enrolled in the oregon health plan .
herc assumes between 14 and 112 of them may be gender dysphoric .
it estimates the total cost of adding cross-sex hormone therapy , puberty-suppressing drugs and sex reassignment surgeries to the coverage will be no more than $ 150,000 per year.but herc also believes the state will save money due to fewer suicide attempts .
it estimates there will be one less suicide attempt per year .
the centers for disease control and prevention estimates the average cost per suicide attempt in the u.s. is $ 7,234.but dr. mchugh says a sex-change operation , especially for young people with gender dysphoria , is never appropriate .
we can help them if we begin to explore with them and their families what they re fearing about development , what they re fearing about being a young boy , a young adolescent appropriate to themselves .
via : fox news