geneva ( reuters ) - government forces have used chemical weapons more than two dozen times during syria s civil war , including in april s deadly attack on khan sheikhoun , u.n. war crimes investigators said on wednesday .
a government warplane dropped sarin on the town in idlib province , killing more than 80 civilians , the u.n. commission of inquiry on syria said , in the most conclusive findings to date from investigations into that chemical weapon attack .
the panel also said u.s. air strikes on a mosque in al-jina in rural aleppo in march that killed 38 people , including children , failed to take precautions in violation of international law , but did not constitute a war crime .
the weapons used on khan sheikhoun were previously identified as containing sarin , an odorless nerve agent .
but that conclusion , reached by a fact-finding mission of the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) , did not say who was responsible .
government forces continued the pattern of using chemical weapons against civilians in opposition-held areas .
in the gravest incident , the syrian air force used sarin in khan sheikhoun , idlib , killing dozens , the majority of whom were women and children , the u.n. report said , declaring the attack a war crime .
commission chairman paulo pinheiro told a news conference : not having access did not prevent us from establishing facts or reasonable grounds to believe what happened during the attack and establishing who is responsible .
in their 14th report since 2011 , u.n. investigators said they had in all documented 33 chemical weapons attacks to date .
twenty-seven were by the government of president bashar al-assad , including seven between march 1 to july 7 .
perpetrators had not been identified yet in six attacks , they said .
the assad government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons .
it said its strikes in khan sheikhoun hit a weapons depot belonging to rebel forces , a claim excluded by pinheiro .
that attack led u.s. president donald trump to launch the first u.s. air strikes on a syrian air base .
a separate joint inquiry by the united nations and opcw aims to report by october on who was to blame for khan sheikhoun .
the u.n. investigators interviewed 43 witnesses , victims , and first responders linked to the attack .
satellite imagery , photos of bomb remnants and early warning reports were used .
the independent investigators said they were gravely concerned about the impact of international coalition strikes on civilians .
we continue to investigate coalition air strikes carried out to expel isis from raqqa resulting in an increasing number of civilian casualties , pinheiro said .
the report said : in al-jina , aleppo , forces of the united states of america failed to take all feasible precautions to protect civilians and civilian objects when attacking a mosque , in violation of international humanitarian law .
a u.s. military investigator said in june the air strike was a valid and legal attack on a meeting of al qaeda fighters .
however , the commission however has not found any evidence that such an al qaeda meeting was taking place , pinheiro said .
the american f-15s hit the building adjacent to the prayer hall with 10 bombs , followed by a reaper drone that fired two hellfire missiles at people fleeing , the u.n. report said .
most of the residents of al-jina , relatives of victims and first responders interviewed by the commission stated on that on the evening in question , a religious gathering was being hosted in the mosque s service building .
this was a regular occurrence .