jakarta ( reuters ) - the head of an indonesian group representing victims of the mass killings of alleged communists in the mid-1960s said he had pinpointed 16 suspected mass grave sites in central java that could contain about 5,000 bodies .
bedjo untung , of the 1965 murder victims research foundation ( ypkp 65 ) , said the sites were around the town of purwodadi where suspected communists were sent for execution .
untung has asked the human rights commission ( komnas ham ) to investigate .
some of the bodies were thrown into a ravine .
some were thrown in wells , untung told a new briefing , citing the testimony of three witnesses .
i have a witness who when he was a kid used to follow his father to wash the dead bodies .
every morning people sent them around 50 bodies .
so we estimate there were around 5,000 , he said , adding that human bones had been found in the area .
i can conclude that they were suspected followers of the indonesian communist party ( pki ) , said untung , who was himself jailed for being a member of the now banned pki .
one of the worst massacres of the 20th century , some historians say at least 500,000 people died in an orgy of bloodshed after then-general suharto took power following an abortive coup .
a million or more people were jailed , suspected of being communists .
the killings in 1965 and 1966 have never been officially investigated and perpetrators have never faced justice despite a pledge by president joko widodo to resolve human rights issues .
untung said that 122 other suspected sites of mass graves had previously been identified .
according to newly declassified u.s. documents , the u.s. government had intimate knowledge of the mass killing of alleged communists even as it failed to publicly reveal the slaughter .
the documents also reveal that indonesian army intermediaries told western embassies they were considering toppling then president sukarno less than a fortnight after the killing of six generals by rebel military personnel that sparked the bloodletting .
[ l4n1mt2ud ] amiruddin al rahab , a commissioner at komnas ham , said he would look into the matter .
the rights group has previously made recommendations to launch an official investigation and set up ad hoc human rights courts but so far these have not been enacted .
indonesia , the world s largest muslim-majority country , still has periodic bouts of anti-communist hysteria .
in september , a meeting by human rights activists and ypkp 65 was shut down after islamists and nationalists rioted outside the venue .