madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s deposed leader carles puigdemont urged the region s political forces on tuesday to unite against spain , as a window for him to seal an electoral pact with other pro-independence parties began to close .
puigdemont went into self-imposed exile in belgium last month after spain s central government fired his secessionist administration , dissolved the catalan parliament and called an election in the region for dec 21 .
pro-secession parties want that vote to become a de facto independence referendum .
two of those parties , puigdemont s pdecat and the erc party , said at the weekend they might contest it on a combined ticket .
but they must register any alliance by the end of tuesday , and prospects of them bridging their differences in time looked slim .
the catalan independence push has deeply divided spain , dragging it into its worst political crisis since the return of democracy four decades ago and fuelling anti-spanish sentiment in catalonia and nationalist tendencies elsewhere .
in an interview with catalunya radio on tuesday from brussels , puigdemont said all parties contesting the election should unite against madrid .
the ideal would be a broad regional list of parties ... that stand for democracy and freedom .
he said , mentioning pdecat , erc , the anti-capitalist cup and left-wing +podemos .
erc s spokesman sergi sabria said on monday his party did not rule out a coalition with pdecat , but would agree only if other parties joined them , including cup , which has yet to decide whether it will contest the december ballot .
unequivocal support for puigdemont and his cause came from some 200 pro-independence catalan mayors who attended a rally in brussels on tuesday evening .
they called for continued non-violent resistance and for the european union to intervene .
perhaps the path toward freedom will be longer than we thought , but it continues and we haven t given up , said toni comin , one of four former cabinet members in brussels .
polls show the erc and pdecat combined would not win enough votes for a majority in the catalan parliament , though running together would increase their chance of success .
puigdemont also said he might be in jail by the time of the election , but prison doesn t deprive anyone of legitimacy .
madrid issued an arrest warrant against puigdemont on charges including rebellion , but a brussels court ruled on monday the deposed leader could remain at liberty in belgium until it had decided whether he should be extradited .
he and other secessionist leaders face the charges for organizing an independence referendum on oct. 1 and proclaiming a catalan republic , in defiance of spain s constitution .
the party that forms the main opposition to the secessionists in catalonia emerged as the big winner in the first nationwide voter survey published by spain s most closely watched polling group since the referendum .
support for the pro-business ciudadanos rose almost three percentage points to 17.5 percent , the sociological research centre ( cis ) survey showed .
podemos which supports a negotiated referendum on independence in catalonia and its allies fell almost two points to 18.5 percent in the survey .
during tuesday s rally , puigdemont called on the spanish government to suspend article 155 , which prime minister mariano rajoy enacted last month to govern catalonia from madrid , and said they would contest it in the december election .
catalans have the right to know if their choice will be respected on dec. 21 , he said .