kabul ( reuters ) - afghan president ashraf ghani s bid to oust one of the country s most powerful provincial governors has run into strong resistance that has deepened political uncertainty just as washington steps up its campaign against the taliban insurgency .
atta mohammad noor , governor of the strategically important northern province of balkh , has refused to leave office , a week after ghani s office said the president had accepted his resignation and named a replacement .
the standoff has underlined how uncertain central government control remains outside the capital and how volatile the political situation has become as maneuvering begins ahead of a presidential election scheduled for 2019 .
one of a number of powerful regional leaders who command strong local loyalty while acting semi-independently of the government , atta noor has long sought a role on the national stage and is a potential candidate in the 2019 election .
allies have warned that unless ghani reverses his decision , he risks civil unrest that will threaten security and allow taliban and islamic state militants to gain a foothold in balkh , a major economic hub which sits on lucrative trade routes to central asia .
if president ghani does not show flexibility , he will be responsible for the consequences , said farhad azimi , a member of parliament from balkh province .
however he said no side had any interest in a confrontation that would cause violence or threaten security .
the standoff , which has alarmed afghanistan s western partners , has re-opened divisions that were only partially covered up by the u.s.-brokered agreement creating ghani s unity government following a disputed presidential election in 2014 .
after widespread claims of fraud by both sides in the election , ghani was finally installed as president alongside his former rival abdullah abdullah from the jamiat-i islami party , who took the specially created post of chief executive .
atta noor , who has built a strong regional power base as balkh governor , has received the backing of the party , which is supported mainly by ethnic tajiks from northern afghanistan , many of whom still resent ghani , an ethnic pashtun .
atta mohammad noor is the strongest figure in jamiat , said bresha rabeh , another member of parliament from balkh .
he will not back down .
however he has clashed bitterly with his party rival abdullah , whom he called a serpent whose teeth he would break .
after days of silence , abdullah confirmed on monday that he had backed the decision to remove atta noor .
the dispute comes as u.s. forces have stepped up air strikes against the taliban and other militant groups as part of a beefed-up strategy aimed at forcing the insurgents to accept a peace settlement after 16 years of war .
u.s. commanders say the campaign has had significant success against the taliban but the impact risks being diluted by political turmoil that has undermined public confidence in the western-backed government .
as the turmoil has deepened , tensions between tajiks and pashtuns , afghanistan s two largest ethnic groups , have intensified , undermining attempts to build national unity .
parliamentary elections , officially scheduled for next year , are in doubt and opposition groups have stepped up pressure on the government , with former president hamid karzai calling for a loya jirga , or council of elders and political leaders .