how many more days remain in our community organizer in chief s term in office ?
he can t make golfing his full time job fast enough this week , former cia director gen. david petraeus testified on capitol hill , warning that inaction in syria carries risks for the united states .
russia s recent military escalation in syria is a further reminder that when the u.s. does not take the initiative , others will fill the vacuum often in ways that are harmful to our interests , petraeus said.fox news exclusive russian , syrian and iranian military commanders have set up a coordination cell in baghdad in recent days to try to begin working with iranian-backed shia militias fighting the islamic state , fox news has learned.western intelligence sources say the coordination cell includes low-level russian generals .
u.s. officials say it is not clear whether the iraqi government is involved at the moment.describing the arrival of russian military personnel in baghdad , one senior u.s. official said , they are popping up everywhere .
cnn report sept. 8 , 2015 : the russians already have been building up their military presence in syria , a subject expected to factor prominently in a planned meeting between president obama and russian president vladimir putin in new york monday on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly.while the u.s. also is fighting the islamic state , the obama administration has voiced concern that russia s involvement , at least in syria , could have a destabilizing effect.moscow , though , has fostered ties with the governments in both syria and iraq .
in may , iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi flew to moscow for an official visit to discuss potential russian arms transfers and shared intelligence capability , as well as the enhancement of security and military capabilities , according to a statement by the iraqi prime minister s office at the time.iranian quds force commander qassem soleimani also was spotted in baghdad on sept 22 .
he met with shia militias backed by iran ; intelligence officials believe he met with russians as well.meanwhile , a u.s. official described to fox news how , over the weekend , the russians were able to move 24 attack jets into syria undetected.the russian military flew 12 sukhoi su-25 frogfoot and a dozen sukhoi su-24 fencer attack aircraft in tight formations under the steady stream of the large russian an-124 cargo planes that have been ferrying supplies from bases in russia through iran before traveling on to syria , the official said.the large cargo planes appeared as a big blip on radar , but flying beneath them were tight formations of the smaller russian fighter jets that used jamming pods and switched off their iff , which would identify the aircraft to radar.the large russian cargo planes have the capability to fly directly from russia to syria , but the smaller attack aircraft do not .
the russian jets did not have the legs to make it directly from russia to syria , and needed a base to refuel , said the official , who spoke to fox news under the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to disclose sensitive information.according to the aviationist , the russian cargo planes and fighter jets landed at an airbase in hamadan , iran , roughly halfway between baghdad and tehran on sept 18-19.fox news also has learned from u.s. military sources that the russians have begun flying some of the sukhoi fighter and attack jets from bassel al-assad airport , in latakia , now a russian forward operating base along the mediterranean.the planes are not dropping bombs or conducting attack missions , but just flying around near the base , according to one official .
the official also confirmed that russian destroyers are in position off the mediterranean coast.on thursday , state department spokesman john kirby denied a u.s. intelligence failure led to u.s. officials being caught unaware of the two dozen russian warplanes arriving in syria .
i can tell you that we ve been watching this very , very closely and we have not been ignorant of what the russians have been doing , said kirby.asked thursday about russia s military involvement in syria , defense secretary ash carter cautioned that without russian support for a political transition in damascus , it could pour gasoline on the isil phenomenon rather than to lead to the defeat of isil .
but just two days ago , secretary of state john kerry said the russian build-up was consistent with defensive measures .
for the moment , it is the judgment of our military and most experts that the level and type represents basically force protection , a level of protection for their deployment to an airbase given the fact that it is in an area of conflict , kerry said at the state department tuesday .