in 1991 a reporter for the london times found a very interesting memorandum composed in 1983 by victor chebrikov , the top man in the kgb .
the memo was addressed to yuri andropov , the top man in the ussr .
the subject : sen. edward kennedythe memorandum reads in part : on 9-10 may of this year , sen. edward kennedy s close friend and trusted confidant [ john ] tunney was in moscow .
the senator charged tunney to convey the following message , through confidential contacts , to the general secretary of the central committee of the communist party of the soviet union , y. andropov .
the message included an offer to visit moscow the main purpose of the meeting , according to the senator , would be to arm soviet officials with explanations regarding problems of nuclear disarmament so they may be better prepared and more convincing during appearances in the usa .
kennedy was offering to help soviet russia deal with president reagan , by telling them how to paint their propaganda picture.via forbes : the document , kengor continues , has stood the test of time .
i scrutinized it more carefully than anything i ve ever dealt with as a scholar .
i showed the document to numerous authorities who deal with soviet archival material .
no one has debunked the memorandum or shown it to be a forgery .
kennedy s office did not deny it .
as part of the deal , kennedy promised to make sure that certain american news networks gave andropov air time and would go soft on him while still making it look like true journalism.why would kennedy do this , you might ask ?
tunney remarked that the senator wants to run for president in 1988 , the memorandum continued .
kennedy does not discount that during the 1984 campaign , the democratic party may officially turn to him to lead the fight against the republicans and elect their candidate president .
so apparently , if a democratic senator actually seeks out help from soviet russia to beat his opponent , that s ok , but if a republican cabinet member so much as has contacts in russia , the gloves come off .
( source : forbes )