21st century wire says this latest stunt only goes to show what a complete rip-off the us healthcare industry truly is.this week , john oliver , host of hbo s last week tonight trumped media mogul and billionaire oprah winfrey by announcing he will forgive the medical debt of 9,000 people .
presently , the us healthcare industry has the world s highest and most inflated medical pricing on goods and services pushing millions of americans into debt over health treatments which should not cost the same as a brand new lexus suv or land rover .
despite the hype , obamacare did nothing to address this fundamental flaw in the us system .
in fact , it made the situation worse , and has turned out to be absolute boon for the corporate insurance racket.if obamacare was really all it was cracked up to be , then it would ve done en mass what john oliver demonstrated on his show buying up medical debt at a merger one half cent on the dollar , and then putting that into cold storage .
instead , obamacare only succeeded in raising the cost ( and debt ) of healthcare for individual payers.more on this story here watch out , oprah winfrey .
john oliver , host of hbo s last week tonight , outdid tv s biggest gift giver on sunday when he forgave nearly $ 15m worth of medical debt on his show.oliver s giveaway came at the end of a 20-minute segment on debt collectors .
the segment focused on the bad actors in the industry , who buy debt from banks for cents on the dollar .
these predatory collectors attempt to recoup the debt they purchased using threats and other aggressive tactics without first verifying the exact details of the debt .
once the company has bought your debt , whether the information is accurate or not , they are going to try to collect on it , oliver explained on sunday.last week tonight spent about $ 50 to create a debt-acquisition company in mississippi .
the corporation s name is central asset recovery professionals inc also known as carp .
according to oliver , soon after its creation , carp was offered a portfolio of medical debt worth $ 14,922,261.76 at a cost of less than half a cent on a dollar , which is less than $ 60,000 .
( ) thanks to this 5 june airing of the hbo comedy series , last week tonight show with john oliver , there are a lot more of us now privy to this collection industry practice and the debt treadmill it creates , said craig antico , co-founder of rip medical debt .
in a painfully hilarious ( debt as funny ?
somehow , yes ) piece , john oliver triumphantly out-oprah s oprah in giving away valuable gifts .
continue this story at the guardianread more health news at : 21st century wire health files