lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistani opposition leader imran khan s party said on monday it had built momentum in a by-election for ousted prime minister nawaz sharif s parliamentary seat , despite finishing second , but the biggest inroads were made by two new islamist groupings .
sharif s wife kulsoom won the by-election with 49.3 percent of the vote in the eastern city of lahore - a handsome margin of victory but down from the 61 percent garnered by the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party in the constituency in an election in 2013 .
the vote was seen as a barometer of support for nawaz in the wake of his disqualification by the supreme court in july , and an indication of whether the corruption allegations leveled at the sharif family have had an impact in their power base in the vast punjab province .
a general election is due next year .
the election commission s preliminary results released on monday showed that the candidate of khan s pakistan tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party took 37.6 percent of the vote , up from 35 percent in the last poll .
shah mehmood qureshi , the pti deputy chairman , said the shrinking of the pml-n s winning margin from 26 percentage points to about 12 in a constituency where it has been so dominant showed its vulnerability in closer-run races in punjab in 2018 .
if this happens in one of the strongest constituencies of pml-n , the prime minister s constituency which they ve had since 1985 that means there is a surge for pti , there is a tilt for pti , said qureshi .
pti candidate yasmin rashid , a gynaecologist from the area , on monday disputed the count and filed a petition with the electoral commission to suspend the results .
we will continue our struggle for verification of the controversial votes which played an important role in the pml-n victory , rashid said .
it was two candidates backed by religious parties that appeared to most chip away at pml-n s vote share , however , together winning about 11 percent .
neither party - one of which is linked to u.s.-designated terrorist hafiz saeed - existed in 2013 .
analysts say the by-election result will certainly concern sharif s party .
the committed and hardline vote did not shift from pml-n , but others who are not hard core or are somewhat independent , they seem to have shifted , said hasan askari , a political analyst .
pti officials are betting that corruption trials against nawaz and his family due to start before the next poll , likely in mid-2018 , will further erode support for the veteran leader who has served three stints as prime minister .
nawaz denies any wrongdoing and his family have alleged a conspiracy led to the supreme court disqualifying him for not declaring a small source of income , which he denies receiving .
nawaz s daughter maryam , who spearheaded the campaign as her mother is receiving cancer treatment in london , had framed the by-election as a chance for voters to reject the supreme court s verdict against her father , and late on sunday suggested some pml-n workers had been threatened and abducted .
maryam did not name anyone , but pml-n sources said she was accusing elements of the military establishment .
the military has not commented on maryam s remarks .
pml-n officials tout kulsoom s victory as proof that nawaz remains popular with voters and say the closer margin is largely due to the strong showing by the two candidates backed by religious parties .
one of the surprises of monday s official results was the third-place finish of shaikh azhar hussain rizvi , an independent candidate backed by tehreek-i-labaik , a coalition of islamist groups .
the labaik-backed candidate won 6 percent of the vote campaigning on a platform of support for pakistan s strict blasphemy laws .
his campaign posters praised executed killer mumtaz qadri , a bodyguard who assassinated punjab s governor for suggesting the laws might be reviewed .
after his execution , qadri was hailed by some religious sects as a martyr for islam .
yaqoob sheikh , who was himself designated a terrorist by the united states in 2012 , captured nearly 5 percent of the vote .
sheikh is backed by the new milli muslim league ( mml ) party that is loyal to hafiz saeed , who washington accuses of being the mastermind behind the 2008 attacks in mumbai that killed 166 people .
a retired general and analysts have said that the mml - which has yet to be legally recognized , forcing sheikh to appear on the ballot as an independent - was likely part of a mainstreaming project envisioned by the military to draw some militant groups into politics .
the mml on monday said it planned to contest another by-election in the northwestern city of peshawar next month .
despite their relatively strong gains , neither the mml nor the tehreek-i-labaik is seen as having much chance of winning many seats in 2018 .
( ths story has been refiled to add dropped word in paragraph 5 )