paris/berlin ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron , concerned that a divisive discussion over euro zone reform might undermine his broader european agenda , has begun prioritizing other areas of eu cooperation , french officials say .
macron hinted at the shift at an eu summit in october when he described his plan to create a budget for the 19-nation currency bloc as a long-term project whose logic would become clear once europe moved towards closer integration in other areas , such as defense , migration , energy and digital .
since then , french officials have told reuters the elysee does not want to get bogged down in a technical debate over euro zone reform at a time when the eu can deliver on other fronts that may resonate more with the public .
the euro zone is just one piece of the puzzle and i don t necessarily think it s the best one to start with , one senior official said .
it is not our goal to have a technocratic discussion about the budget and how it would work .
during his election campaign , 39-year-old macron talked intently about euro zone reform , seeing it as critical to strengthening the european project after years of tumult and ensuring another sovereign debt crisis didn t occur .
after barely two decades of the euro , he wanted to make sure the single currency project had the strength and flexibility to last the long-run , while remaining responsive to the 350 million eu citizens who depend on it daily .
french officials stress that macron has not discarded his ideas for the euro zone .
but the decision to shift them down the priority list is a recognition of the political realities in europe .
it also underscores an irony : for years german chancellor angela merkel waited for an ambitious partner in france .
now she has one , but is less able to deliver herself .
germany , with which macron had hoped to agree deep changes to euro area governance in the first half of 2018 , faces months of political limbo as merkel tries to cobble together a coalition .
early signals from germany and other eu members have underscored how difficult it will be for macron to deliver on his euro zone ambitions , which call for the budget , a finance minister and a separate parliament for the currency bloc .
it did not go unnoticed in paris that the new dutch government , in its october coalition agreement , voiced opposition to any euro zone fiscal mechanism to cushion economic shocks .
earlier this month , dutch prime minister mark rutte spoke of his opposition to more european integration and other ideas coming from france .
a new right-wing government in austria could adopt a similar stance to the dutch .
focusing on the technical details of european reform is the wrong approach , said sylvie goulard , a former member of the european parliament who served briefly as macron s defense minister .
you really need to focus on the bigger picture - the challenge from ( u.s president donald ) trump and from china , she said , echoing the view from people in macron s entourage .
on friday , leaders of the 19 nations that use the euro meet in brussels to discuss how to strengthen their currency union .
the meeting is unlikely to produce anything concrete , due to political uncertainty in berlin , and the eu goal of agreeing concrete proposals by june now looks ambitious .
the prospect of another german grand coalition that includes the macron-friendly social democrats ( spd ) has alleviated some of concerns in paris .
spd leader martin schulz made clear in a speech last week that he would put europe at the top of his party s agenda in looming negotiations with merkel , calling for a united states of europe by 2025 .
but whether the weakened schulz , who barely talked about europe during the election campaign , can push merkel towards macron on the issue of euro zone reform is questionable .
i am very skeptical .
i don t share the big hopes for the merkel and macron couple , henrik enderlein , who heads the berlin office of the delors institute , said last week at an event at the hertie school of governance in berlin .
the more cautious stance in paris also reflects doubts about merkel s own commitment to the changes macron is seeking .
during her coalition talks with the free democrats and greens , which collapsed last month , merkel was not an enthusiastic advocate for macron s ideas , according to several participants from the greens party .
one central difference between berlin and paris has become obvious in recent months .
while macron has pushed for a multi-speed europe in which france and germany lead the way , there is a cross-party consensus in berlin that any reform push should include a broad swathe of eu members .
that s a position that is also backed by the european commission .
the contrast was apparent during french finance minister bruno le maire s visit to berlin last month , where he sparred with the greens on the inclusiveness issue , participants said .
officials in berlin have been impressed by macron s domestic reform push and there is a broad consensus in merkel s party that the next german government must find ways to work with the french president .
on monday , she vowed to work with france on a joint corporate tax policy , digital initiatives and the harmonization of arms export policies .
but there was no mention of his euro zone ideas .
there is still the old instinct to do as little as possible on the euro area , said jeromin zettelmeyer , a former official in the german economy ministry who developed euro zone reform ideas with macron s team when he was french economy minister .
but the old instinct to do as little as possible to accommodate france , that is gone .
there is a sense that something constructive must be done .