ljubljana ( reuters ) - slovenian president borut pahor will face a second-round election on nov. 12 after he fell short of a majority in sunday s first round , as he tries to win a second five-year mandate .
with 99 percent of the vote counted , according to the state election commission , pahor had 47.1 percent of the vote .
in next month s runoff , he will face marjan sarec , the mayor of the city of kamnik , who took 25 percent .
turnout reached 43.5 percent .
the result contradicted exit polls by tv slovenia that showed pahor winning in the first round .
in the second round anything is possible , although pahor is a big favorite , peter jancic , the editor of political website spletni casopis told reuters .
although the office is mostly ceremonial , the president leads the army and also nominates several top officials , including the central bank governor .
most of his nominations have to be confirmed by parliament .
the vote amounted to a warning for prime minister miro cerar and his party of modern centre ( smc ) before the general election due next june or july .
its candidate , education minister maja makovec brencic , took only 1.7 percent of the vote and came seventh out of nine candidates .
smc will surely have a lot to show at parliamentary election , cerar told tv slovenia .
we have a lot of ideas for the future .
pahor , 53 , who ran as an independent candidate , is a former long-time leader of the center-left social democrats .
he told reporters he will focus on connecting people , cooperation , political stability and security if he wins in the second round .
he was slovenia s prime minister from 2008 to 2012 , the years that led to the worst financial crisis in slovenia s history .
in 2013 , the country only narrowly avoided an international bailout for its banks .
a former fashion model , he is also known as the king of the instagram , for posting photos on instagram showing him in his official duties but also in various sports activities .
sarec , 39 , is not affiliated with parliamentary parties but is running as a candidate of his own non-parliamentary , center-left party , lista marjana sarca .
he is a former actor .
i am happy about this result , which shows that us mayors do a lot for people at the local level and are working hard , he said .