brussels ( reuters ) - the collapse of german chancellor angela merkel s talks to form a three-way coalition government is bad news for europe given the leading role of the european union s biggest member state , the dutch foreign minister said on monday .
germany s political crisis was weighing on the euro and european shares after the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) unexpectedly pulled out on sunday from weeks of talks with merkel s conservatives and the ecologist greens .
it s bad news for europe that the government in germany will take a little longer , new dutch foreign minister halbe zijlstra said on arrival for talks with eu peers in brussels .
germany is a very influential country within the eu so if they don t have a government and therefore don t have a mandate it ll be very hard for them to take positions .
germany s outgoing eu minister michael roth , a member of the social democrats who are not in talks on forming a new merkel government , said : we all have an interest in getting a mandate so that we are able to take care fully of business in europe .
we have never had such a situation in germany .
so , given the collapse of these exploratory talks , we will need to assess the situation and decide accordingly .
the spokesman for the eu s executive arm in brussels stressed the need for stability in germany , as did an official in french president emmanuel macron s office .
we are confident that the german constitutional process will provide the basis for the stability and continuity that has been a trademark of german politics and we hope this time will not be different , said the european commission s margaritis schinas .
while some in germany spoke of a possible new election , zijlstra said that was a bad idea and noted that the dutch government took seven months to form , which meant german parties could still return to talks after a pause .
foreign minister didier reynders of belgium , which was without a government for 18 months after an election , sought to strike a lighter tone on germany .
in belgium we have a tradition to do that , sometimes it s very long , reynders told reporters .
zijlstra did not think the situation in germany affected the brexit talks specifically for now , as the eu was waiting for a substantial offer from the british on the exit bill .
both roth and reynders agreed london must make a move on the money now .
arriving at the same talks , the czech republic s eu minister , ales chmelar , said : we are hopeful that we will have a strong government in germany sooner rather than later .