beijing ( reuters ) - a taiwanese activist on trial in china confessed on monday to attempting to subvert the beijing government , according to videos of his hearing released by chinese authorities , although his wife refused to recognize the court s authority .
lee ming-che , a community college teacher known for his pro-democracy and rights activism , went missing on a trip to mainland china in march .
china s authorities later confirmed that he was being investigated on suspicion of damaging national security .
lee said he accepted the charge of subversion and expressed regret in videos of his comments released on social media by the yueyang city intermediate people s court in central hunan province .
i spread some attacks , theories that maliciously attacked and defamed china s government , the chinese communist party and china s current political system , and i incited the subversion of state power , lee said , referring to comments written in an instant messaging group .
taiwan s presidential office said in a news briefing on monday afternoon that the government is engaged in an all-out effort to assist mr. lee ming-che s family .
his relief is our top priority .
the position of this government has been very clear .
mr. lee is one of our citizens , an office spokesman said , adding : we ll do everything in our power to ensure his safe return .
lee stood trial alongside chinese national peng yuhua , 37 , who confessed to creating instant messaging groups and founding an organization that sought to promote political change in china .
lee had been involved in both , peng said in testimony released on video by the court .
taiwanese rights activist xiao yiming traveled to the mainland for the trial , but said he was barred from entering the courtroom .
xiao suspected peng was being used by authorities to help strengthen the state s case against lee , as he was unaware of any previous connection between the two men .
taiwan has democratic freedoms and lee has the right to share his ideas , xiao told reuters by phone , describing lee as a prisoner of conscience .
lee ching-yu , lee s wife , attended the hearing .
before leaving for china she had asked that lee s supporters to forgive him for anything he might say that disappoints them during the hearing .
she wrote a letter to her husband on monday morning before the trial began , photographs of which were seen by reuters .
i do not recognize this court .
i also did not hire any lawyers , she wrote .
after the hearing , she tearfully repeated her request for forgiveness and unveiled what appeared to be two new tattoos on the underside of each of her forearms that read , lee ming-che and i am proud of you , videos sent to reuters showed .
no one answered the court phone when called by reuters on monday .
releasing videos and transcripts of court hearings has become increasingly common in china as part of a push for greater judicial transparency and oversight .
but rights activists say that in sensitive cases holding open trials allows authorities to demonstrate state power and deter others , with statements and verdicts usually agreed in advance .
ties between beijing and taipei have been strained since president tsai ing-wen , leader of the independence-leaning democratic progressive party , took office last year .
tsai s refusal to state that taiwan and china are part of one country has angered beijing , as have her comments about human rights on the mainland .
beijing maintains that the island of taiwan is part of china and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under its control , while proudly democratic taiwan has shown no interest in being governed by the communist party rulers in beijing .