london ( reuters ) - the british government will soften its seven-year grip on public-sector pay with police and prison officers set to get increases above a 1 percent cap , media reported .
the reports suggested british prime minister theresa may and her finance minister philip hammond want to take a cautious approach to increasing pay for public sector workers .
police account for around 5 percent of the 5.1 million public sector workers in britain and prison staff represent a smaller group .
based on calculations by the institute of fiscal studies , an increase in pay for police to match britain s current 2.6 percent inflation rate would cost about 145 million pounds ( $ 191 million ) this year , a small extra strain on the budget which is likely show a deficit of 58 billion pounds .
if the government gave all public sector workers a 2.6 percent increase this year , the additional spending would rise to nearly 3 billion pounds , ifs analyst jonathan cribb said .
news reports published late on sunday said ministers were expected to accept recommendations for bigger pay rises this week , paving the way for similar increases for other government employees in future .
the higher increases for police and prison officers are based on the recommendations of independent pay-review bodies , with recruitment and retention problems being cited in the case of prison officers , the bbc said .
asked on monday if the public sector pay cap was still in place , the prime minister s spokesman said the pay review process was continuing .
a spokeswoman for the finance ministry declined to comment on the reports .
public-sector pay was frozen for all but the lowest earners in 2010 and increases were limited to of 1 percent a year from 2013 .
may has been under increasing pressure from ministers and lawmakers to end the cap since her party lost its majority in parliament in elections in june .
britain s inflation rate has risen sharply since last year s brexit vote hit the value of the pound and is likely to reach about 3 percent soon , squeezing the spending power of households .
the bank of england is watching for signs of pay growth as it considers when to raise emergency-level interest rates for the first time since the global financial crisis a decade ago .