beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party is expected to amend its constitution at a key party congress next month , state media said on monday , in a sign that president xi jinping aims to enshrine his guiding ideological doctrine in the charter .
since assuming office almost five years ago , xi has rapidly consolidated power , with moves such as heading a group leading economic reform and appointing himself military commander-in-chief , although as head of the central military commission he already controls the armed forces .
the politburo , one of the party s elite ruling bodies , deliberated a draft amendment to the constitution to be discussed at the congress that would include major theoretical viewpoints and major strategic thought , the official xinhua news agency said .
while the xinhua report did not elaborate , a key measure of xi s power will be whether he manages to have his name crowned in the constitution , elevating him to the level of previous leaders exemplified by mao zedong thought and deng xiaoping theory .
xi s more recent predecessors , jiang zemin and hu jintao , both had the party constitution amended to include their guiding thoughts , but without their names directly attached .
jiang has his three represents , which embraced private entrepreneurs , written in , while hu , xi s immediate predecessor , had his economic doctrine of scientific development included .
the party has been pushing xi s four comprehensives , which refer to china working comprehensively to build a moderately prosperous society and strengthen reforms , rule of law and party discipline , but it is not clear yet what wording could be put into the constitution to reflect xi s thought .
amending the constitution at the 19th cpc national congress on the basis of the new situation and tasks would promote the development of socialism with chinese characteristics and party building , xinhua said .
the amendments should include the key theories and strategic thoughts presented by a work report at the start of the congress , which opens on oct. 18 , it added .
the amended constitution should fully represent the latest sinicisation of marxism , new governance concepts and the fresh experiences in adhering to , and strengthening , party leadership , and in strict party governance , xinhua said .
the amendment should make the communist party more vigorous , stronger and enable it to keep a close connection with the people .
the draft amendment will be submitted on oct. 11 to a party plenary meeting , it added , a smaller scale gathering of about 200 of the most senior leaders to finalize the agenda for the congress .