bogota ( reuters ) - colombia s senate has backed a law to regulate transitional justice under the country s peace deal with marxist farc rebels , including special tribunals that will try guerrilla leaders for war crimes .
the law , approved late on wednesday , is considered the cornerstone of the agreement signed last year between the government and the farc , known then as the revolutionary armed forces of colombia .
the measure still needs approval from the lower house of congress , which is likely to vote on it early next week .
the special courts will mete out alternative sentences like landmine removal for ex-guerrilla leaders who are convicted of war crimes .
under the peace deal , those convicted will not serve time in traditional jails .
the law can also apply to members of the military and civilians who funded illegal groups like paramilitaries .
congress has until the end of the month to approve the law using the court-approved fast-track mechanism to reduce the number of required debates in an effort to implement the peace accord as quickly as possible .
in a move that invigorated the previously slow debate in the senate chamber , the nation s top court ruled this week that the majority of the law , including provisions that allow former rebels to participate in politics , is constitutional .
the court made several modifications however .
a provision in the agreement prohibits extradition of former farc members , but the ruling said that only applied to crimes that occurred before the deal .
it said ex-rebels who commit crimes after demobilization would be subject to regular laws that include the possibility of extradition .
that did not sit well with the farc , which is now officially a political party .
the extradition prohibition as it stands in the final accord is a right and not a benefit , senior farc member ivan marquez told journalists on thursday .
making the prohibition ineffectual constitutes a flagrant and very grave non-compliance with the deal .
under the agreement the farc will have 10 guaranteed seats in congress until 2026 .
the group has already announced a slate of candidates for elections next year .