washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama said on tuesday he was dismayed about violence and divisiveness on the u.s. presidential campaign trail and , in a reference to republican front-runner donald trump , called on leaders to clean up the tone of the race .
“ we have heard vulgar and divisive rhetoric aimed at women and minorities , at americans who don ’ t look like us or pray like us or vote like we do , ” obama said during an event on capitol hill .
“ we ’ ve seen misguided attempts to shut down that speech .
however offensive it may be , we live in a country where free speech is one of the most important rights that we hold .
in response to those attempts , we ’ ve seen actual violence .
and we ’ ve heard silence from too many of our leaders. ” obama spoke as americans in five states - ohio , florida , illinois , missouri and north carolina - voted in the latest round of primaries to select the democratic and republican presidential candidates for the november election .
trump has drawn wide criticism , including from within the republican establishment , for a campaign that has included calling mexican immigrants rapists and proposing a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
there have been some clashes in recent days at his rallies between his supporters and protesters .
trump , a new york real estate magnate , has dismissed accusations that he has fueled the violent atmosphere .
obama said this year ’ s campaign cycle was not an accurate reflection of the united states .
“ it has to stop , ” the democratic president said , describing the atmosphere of the campaign as “ vicious , ” and adding that the behavior “ can undermine our democracy , our society and even our economy. ” mitch mcconnell , the republican senate majority leader , told reporters that trump had called him on tuesday .
“ i took the opportunity to recommend to him that no matter who may be triggering these violent expressions or conflicts that we ’ ve seen in some of these rallies , it might be a good idea to condemn that and discourage it , ” mcconnell said .
he declined to comment on trump ’ s response .
u.s .
senators ted cruz of texas and marco rubio of florida and ohio governor john kasich are challenging trump for the nomination .
“ i suspect that all of us can recall some intemperate words that we regret .
certainly i can , ” obama said .
“ and while some may be more to blame than others for the current climate , all of us are responsible for reversing it . ”