( story corrects to million from billion in paragraph 12 of september 11th version . )
by prak chan thul and matthew tostevin phnom penh ( reuters ) - accused of plotting treason with cambodia s detained opposition leader , the u.s. embassy posted a picture of a red herring on its facebook page .
the cryptic suggestion that the accusations were false - a mystifying reference for many cambodians - was followed by further posts on monday showing how u.s. aid was helping to preserve temples and forests .
those posts also underscored the big difference between aid from the united states and aid from china , whose greater support for big ticket projects has helped allow prime minister hun sen to brush off criticism over the arrest of election rival kem sokha .
not only is china vastly outspending the united states in a country once destroyed by cold war superpower rivalry , but its money goes on highly visible infrastructure projects and with no demands for political reform .
u.s. aid goes more towards social projects and trying to build democracy - unwanted interference for the government of a prime minister who has ruled for over 30 years .
taking aid doesn t mean they can order us to do what they want .
we aren t their ally .
we aren t their slave , government spokesman phay siphan told reuters .
the chinese always support us in economic growth and they never interfere in our decisions .
the u.s. embassy made no immediate comment .
cambodia has dismissed u.s. and western criticism of the sept. 3 arrest of opposition leader kem sokha .
china has backed hun sen. to ensure the security of cambodia , china will cooperate with cambodia in all circumstances , wang jiarui , vice chairman of china s national assembly , said in phnom penh last week , according to the official cambodian record .
the support doesn t only run one way .
china relies on cambodia in southeast asian meetings on issues such as its claims in the south china sea .
in cambodia , china s military has also gained a strategic foothold .
figures from cambodia s overseas development aid database show how important china has become .
it accounted for nearly 36 percent of $ 732 million listed in bilateral aid for 2016 - nearly four times as much as from the united states .
most of the rest is from other western countries , whose protests have also been dismissed .
the disparity is even starker in investment .
china provided nearly 30 percent of investment capital in cambodia last year - more than cambodians themselves .
the united states accounted for only just over three percent .
meanwhile , u.s. president donald trump s proposed aid cuts have pointed to a possible 70 percent reduction in u.s. assistance to cambodia from 2018 , according to a draft proposal .
what cambodia gets from the united states and china is very different .
chinese projects include roads , bridges , irrigation systems , electrical transmission infrastructure and dams .
the list of u.s. projects is much longer , but they are much smaller : in education , health , conservation as well as efforts to build democracy which grate on the government .
the u.s. funded national democratic institute ( ndi ) pro-democracy group was expelled last month and accused of conspiring to help bring down hun sen - a charge rejected by the ndi and the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) .
the fact the government has been criticized by western donors over the recent crackdown just means cambodia is becoming more dependent on china , said ou virak of the future forum think tank .
the united states is a much bigger export market than china , particularly for cambodia s garment factories , but the united states has not publicly suggested it could use trade to bring pressure for democratic change .
kem sokha s deputy , mu sochua , said aid that did not include conditions on human rights did not serve cambodia well .
cambodia needs china , it needs america , it needs democracy to pull it out of many years of poverty , she told reuters .
but cambodia depends much less on aid than it did .
this year will mark the seventh year of near 7 percent growth or above - a fact hun sen often points to in a country he took over after the devastating killing fields genocide committed by the khmer rouge , in which he was once a commander .
world bank figures show overseas development assistance fell from over 120 percent of central government expenditure in 2002 to barely 32 percent in 2015 .
per capita gross domestic product rose from less than $ 340 in 2002 to nearly $ 1,300 last year .
dismissing u.s. interference in a speech on monday , hun sen threatened a possible ban on the opposition party .
then he took a plane for beijing where he said he would seek money for the health sector - an area dominated by western donors until now .