liberal heads explode in 5 4 3 2 1president trump could win the white house again in 2020 which likely would send hostile political operatives and the disapproving news media into an epic meltdown .
news flash : get ready .
mr. trump will likely win re-election , says one analyst .
president trump did not ascend to the white house in the usual way ; he broke with traditional campaign orthodoxy and tactics , ford o connell , a political analyst and adjunct professor at the george washington university graduate school of political management , tells inside the beltway .
while trump s first six months in the white house have been marked by early stumbles , a healthy dose of palace intrigue and low approval numbers , history says trump is in fact the odds-on favorite to win re-election in 2020 , should he choose to run .
why ?
because presidential incumbency has its privileges .
since 1900 , 20 presidents have sought re-election .
of those , 15 won and five lost that is , if you include gerald ford , who was never elected in the first place .
adds mr. o connell , so how does president trump avoid becoming the sixth president to be fired by the people in the last 120 years ?
barring some unforeseen calamity or dwayne the rock johnson becoming the democratic presidential nominee , the fate of trump s presidency will live and die with the state of the economy in the fall of 2020 .
to ensure that the electoral winds are favorable to trump , his administration must deliver results by passing tax reform before the 2018 midterms , showing significant progress on other key campaign promises : securing america s borders , infrastructure , trade , conservative judicial appointees .
he must also continue to instill in working-class voters in both the rust belt ( ohio , pennsylvania , iowa , michigan , wisconsin ) and sun belt ( florida , north carolina , arizona ) battleground states the belief that he is tirelessly fighting for them .
if trump does that , voters will forgive his impetuous ways and rehire him , the professor concludes.for entire story : washington times