seoul/beijing ( reuters ) - curbing north korea s nuclear ambitions will top south korean president moon jae-in s agenda in beijing during a visit this week aimed at breaking the ice after a furious row over seoul s deployment of a u.s. anti-missile system .
while both south korea and china share the goal of getting north korea to give up its nuclear weapons and stop testing increasingly sophisticated long-range missiles , the two have not seen eye-to-eye on how to achieve this .
china has been particularly angered at the deployment of u.s.-made terminal high altitude area defence ( thaad ) anti-missile system in south korea , saying its powerful radar can see far into china and will do nothing to ease tension with north korea .
at his third meeting this year with chinese president xi jinping on thursday in beijing , moon is expected to reaffirm south korea s agreement with china in late october that they would normalise exchanges and move past the dispute over thaad , which froze trade and business exchanges between the two .
the thaad disagreement had dented south korea s economic growth , especially its tourism industry , as group tours from china came to a halt while charter flights from south korea were cancelled .
while china still objects to thaad , it has said it understands south korea s decision to deploy it .
in an interview with chinese state television shown late on monday , moon said thaad s presence was inevitable due to the looming north korean threat but assured it would not be used against china .
south korea will be extremely careful from here on out that the thaad system is not invasive of china s security .
south korea has received promises from the united states multiple times regarding this , moon said .
joint efforts by china and south korea could have good results if they work together to bring north korea to the negotiating table , he added .
north korea has shown little sign it wants to engage in formal talks , with its state media citing leader kim jong un as saying on tuesday north korea should develop and manufacture more diverse weapons to completely overpower the enemy .
kim was addressing a rare munitions conference on monday to laud the north s latest intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) .
north korea last month test-launched what it called its most advanced icbm in defiance of international sanctions and condemnation as it presses on with its mission to create a nuclear-tipped missile that can hit the united states .
speaking over the weekend , chinese foreign minister wang yi said moon had chosen to have friendly cooperation with china , and china was willing to work with south korea to bring peace and stability to the korean peninsula .
during his first visit to china since taking office in may this year , moon is expected to get bilateral economic exchanges back on track .
according to south korean media , moon will be accompanied by the biggest business entourage ever with more than 220 businesses taking part in the four-day visit .