corruption is nothing new for hillary and bill .
what is truly stunning is the mountain of evidence that clearly shows their criminal behavior has been going on for decades how did documents describing hillary clinton s role in the death of white house counsel vince foster vanish ? foster is believed to have shot himself with a .38 caliber revolver at fort marcy park along the potomac river on july 20 , 1993from newsmax april 4 , 2001 .
vince foster s gun serial number searched before deathwhen vince foster was found dead from an apparent gunshot wound to the head in 1993 , the government was quick to write off the death as a suicide.that sat well with bill clinton and vince s closest confidante , hillary rodham clinton.for years , detail after detail emerged questioning the official ruling.significant questions were raised about the unusual gun a .38 colt revolver made from the parts of three guns with two serial numbers found conveniently in vince s hand.the park police said one of the serial numbers indicated the gun was vintage 1913 and had no pedigree.foster family members insisted neither foster nor his father ever owned the old revolver.recently , a newsmax.com reader named craig brinkley contacted us.curious about the gun , brinkley had filed a freedom of information act request with the fbi , asking details of requests on the gun s serial numbers with the ncic the national crime information center.the ncic keeps records of all law enforcment inquiries of serial numbers.on march 23 , 2001 , the fbi responded to brinkley s request.serial number 356555 , one of the numbers on the gun , was never searched , not by the fbi , the park police or by that investigation by ken starr.serial number 355055 was found on the frame of the gun .
brinkley believes that was the gun s real nnumber.that number was indeed searched by the park police , on the evening of foster s death , more exactly at 22:45 edt on july 20 , 1993.interestingly , searches were conducted on the same serial number no fewer than three times earlier that year , before foster s death , on march 3 , march 7 and april 29.was someone checking to see that this gun had a clean predigree and was untraceable ? we called marilyn walton at the fbi s access integrity unit .
she told us that the government does not disclose which law enforcement agencies requested a trace on the serial number .
she said it could have been made by local or federal agencies who have access to the ncic computer.she noted that serial numbers are often duplicated , and usually when a request is made , it includes additional information , such as the gun s make and model.in all four cases no such information was entered , just the number .
walton added that many guns share similar serial numbers.is it a coincidence that in the year of foster s death , four searches were conducted on the serial number found on the old gun none ever before or after ?
two former fbi agents involved in the investigation tell daily mail online they issued reports linking hillary s tirade to foster s suicidein interviewing clinton white house aides and foster s friends and family , the fbi found that a week before foster s death , hillary held a meeting at the white house with foster and other top aides to discuss her proposed health care legislation.hillary angrily disagreed with a legal objection foster raised at the meeting and ridiculed him in front of his peers , former fbi agent coy copeland and former fbi supervisory agent jim clemente told me .
copeland was starr s senior investigator and read the reports of other agents working for starr.during the white house meeting , hillary continued to humiliate foster mercilessly , according to both former fbi agents , who spoke about the investigation for the first time .
hillary put him down really , really bad in a pretty good-size meeting , copeland says .
she told him he didn t get the picture , and he would always be a little hick town lawyer who was obviously not ready for the big time .
indeed , hillary went so far as to blame foster for all the clintons problems and to accuse him of failing them , according to clemente , who was also assigned by the fbi to the starr investigation and who probed the circumstances surrounding foster s suicide .
foster was profoundly depressed , but hillary lambasting him was the final straw because she publicly embarrassed him in front of others , says clemente .
hillary blamed him for failed nominations , claimed he had not vetted them properly , and said in front of his white house colleagues , you re not protecting us and you have failed us , clemente says .
that was the final blow .
after the white house meeting , foster s behavior changed dramatically , the fbi agents found .
those who knew him said his voice sounded strained , he became withdrawn and preoccupied , and his sense of humor vanished .
at times , foster teared up .
he talked of feeling trapped.on tuesday , july 13 , 1993 , while having dinner with his wife lisa , foster broke down and began to cry .
he said he was considering resigning.archived material related to the case , housed at national archives in college park , md .
were examined by the author to no availafter filing a freedom of information request , it was determined that the agents reported have gone missing fbi agents reports of interviews documenting that hillary clinton s stinging humiliation of her friend and mentor vince foster in front of white house aides triggered his suicide a week later are missing from where they should be filed at the national archives , daily mail online has learned exclusively.on two separate occasions , this author visited the national archives and records service in college park , md. , to review the reports generated by fbi agents assigned to investigate the 1993 death of bill clinton s deputy white house counsel.on the first visit , archivist david paynter provided the box of records that he said contained the fbi reports of interviews conducted by fbi agents on foster s death.on a second visit , archivist james mathis provided what he said were those same documents.while the box contained dozens of fbi reports concerning foster s death including interviews with the medical examiner , u.s. park police officers , and white house aides about the contents of foster s office the reports on hillary clinton s role in his death were absent.after filing a freedom of information request with the national archives , martha murphy , the archives public liaison , reported that she directed a senior archivist to conduct a more thorough review of the relevant fbi files , including those that had not been previously made public in response to foia requests .
he examined all eight boxes but found no interviews by any investigator that detail either a meeting between hillary clinton and vince foster or the effects of a meeting between hillary clinton and vince foster on vince foster s state of mind , murphy reported in an email .
we did not limit ourselves to interviews by the two individuals [ fbi agents ] you mention .
while murphy said the archives searched for the records that would be responsive to your request and concluded that they could not be found , when asked for comment , john valceanu , the archives director of communications and marketing , said , we do not agree with your conclusion that the records you requested are missing from the national archives simply because we were unable to locate any responsive records in response to your request .
while confirming that the records could not be located , valceanu held out the possibility that the fbi interviews were not filed where they should have been and were somewhere else in the more than 3,000 boxes of records amounting to 7.5 million pages generated by the starr investigation.this is not the first time documents related to the clintons have apparently vanished from the national archive.in march 2009 , the archives found that an external hard drive from the bill clinton white house containing confidential documents was missing.when it could not be located , the inspector general s office announced that it had opened a criminal investigation.offering a reward of up to $ 50,000 for information leading to recovery of the hard drive , the archives asked that tips be reported to the secret service .
at the time , the archives said it had a backup drive.via : daily mail