yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar s army released a report on monday denying all allegations of rape and killings by security forces , having days earlier replaced the general in charge of the operation that drove more than 600,000 rohingya muslims to flee to bangladesh .
no reason was given for major general maung maung soe being transferred from his post as the head of western command in rakhine state , where myanmar s military , known as the tatmadaw , launched a sweeping counter-insurgency operation in august .
i don t know the reason why he was transferred , major general aye lwin , deputy director of the psychological warfare and public relation department at the ministry of defense , told reuters .
he wasn t moved into any position at present .
he has been put in reserve .
a senior u.n. official , who had toured the refugee camps in bangladesh , on sunday accused myanmar s military of conducting organized mass rape and other crimes against humanity .
the myanmar military said its own internal investigation had exonerated security forces of all accusations of atrocities .
the investigators findings were posted on the facebook page of the military s commander-in-chief , senior general min aung hlaing .
the developments came ahead of a visit on wednesday by u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson .
he is expected to deliver a stern message to myanmar s generals , over whom national leader aung san suu kyi has little control .
a spokeswoman for the u.s. state department , katina adams , said the united states was aware of reports of the general s replacement and added : we remain gravely concerned by continuing reports of violence and human rights abuses committed by burmese security forces and vigilantes .
those responsible for abuses must be held accountable .
lawmakers in washington are pressing to pass legislation imposing economic and travel sanctions targeting the military and its business interests .
in an op-ed in britain s guardian newspaper on monday , republican representative steve chabot and democratic representative joseph crowley said it was time to expeditiously impose sanctions .
the u.s. needs to send a clear message that there is no excuse for a cruel , extensive and grossly disproportionate crackdown on civilians , they said .
the government in mostly buddhist myanmar , which is also known as burma , regards the rohingya as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
leaders of asian nations meeting in manila on monday skirted around the exodus of the rohingya , disappointing human rights groups who were hoping for a tough stand .
maung maung soe s transfer was ordered on friday and brigadier general soe tint naing , formerly a director in logistics , was appointed as the new head of western command .
made up of three divisions , western command is overseen by the bureau of special operations , which reports to the office of min aung hlaing .
a senior u.n. official , u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein , has described the army s actions in rakhine as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
myanmar says the clearance operation was necessary for national security after rohingya militants attacked 30 security posts and an army base in the state on aug. 25 .
the internal investigation put the number of fighters involved in the attacks at over 10,000 , more than doubling an earlier official estimate .
speaking in dhaka , pramila patten , the u.n. special representative of the secretary-general on sexual violence in conflict , said she would raise accusations against the myanmar military with the international criminal court in the hague .
when i return to new york , i will brief and raise the issue with the prosecutor and president of the icc whether they ( myanmar s military ) can be held responsible for these atrocities , patten said .
sexual violence is being commanded , orchestrated and perpetrated by the armed forces of myanmar , otherwise known as the tatmadaw , patten said following a three-day tour of the rohingya refugee camps in the cox s bazar region of bangladesh .
rape is an act and a weapon of genocide , she said .
refugees have accused myanmar soldiers and buddhist vigilantes of torching their villages , murdering their families and raping women .
patten said brutal acts of sexual violence had occurred in the context of collective persecution that included the killing of adults and children , torture , mutilation and the burning and looting of villages .
the forms of sexual violence we consistently heard about from survivors include gang-rape by multiple soldiers , forced public nudity and humiliation , and sexual slavery in military captivity .
one survivor was in captivity for 45 days by the myanmar army , patten said .
the myanmar military s internal probe said that according to 2,817 people interviewed from 54 rohingya villages soldiers did not fire on innocent villagers , rape or commit sexual violence against women .
nor were there any killings or beating of villagers , and the security forces did not carry out any looting or set fire to rohingya mosques , it said .
the report also concluded that security forces only used small arms in clashes with rohingya militants and there were no findings to suggest the use of excessive force .
it also blamed the militants for setting fire to the villages and frightening and coercing people to leave their homes .
myanmar is refusing entry to a u.n. panel that was tasked with investigating allegations of abuses after a smaller military counteroffensive launched in october 2016 .
the country is in the early stages of a fragile transition to democracy after being ruled by a junta for 49 years , and the generals have retained their autonomy on matters of defense , security and border issues under a 2008 constitution .
three generals are members of the cabinet .
suu kyi has said that any alleged atrocities should be substantiated and investigated , while her government is working to stabilize rakhine in order for the rohingya to return .
for now , though , the flow is one way .
the international rescue committee , a new york-based aid agency , reckons that around two-thirds of an estimated 300,000 rohingya remaining in myanmar could head across the border in the coming months .