jerusalem ( reuters ) - the israeli parliament voted on monday in favor of a draft law barring police from publicizing its conclusions in criminal probes legislation seen as shielding prime minister benjamin netanyahu , who is under investigation for corruption .
the draft must still pass two more parliamentary votes .
but if written into law , police would not be allowed to say whether they have found sufficient grounds to charge netanyahu , keeping the israeli public in the dark until the attorney-general determines whether the prime minister is to be prosecuted .
the draft law also proposes a one-year jail term for officials who leak findings to the press .
its two sponsors , confidants of netanyahu , said the law is meant to protect suspects rights and reputation , while the opposition derided it as a blatant attempt to protect netanyahu and withhold knowledge from the public about his investigations .
the public doesn t need to know everything .
the public will find out at the end , netanyahu s coalition head , david bitan told the knesset television channel .
netanyahu has said he has no interest in promoting personal legislation but he has not ordered bitan and his co-sponsor of the bill , david amsalem , to withdraw the legislation .
netanyahu is a suspect in two cases , one into alleged meddling in the media industry and the other into gifts he received from rich businessmen .
he denies any wrongdoing .
but , if charged , he would come under heavy pressure to resign or could call an election to test whether he still had a mandate .
this is a netanyahu law , said yair lapid , leader of the opposition party yesh atid , which latest polls show as neck in neck with netanyahu s likud .
it is tailored for very few people .
the only people to benefit from it are politicians , mafia heads and politicians who behave like mafia heads .
all four prime ministers of the past two decades have been suspects in police investigations , but only ehud olmert was charged and convicted .
he spent 16 months in jail for accepting bribes from real estate developers .
in high-profile cases such as these , police usually say if they have gathered sufficient evidence against the suspects , before handing over to the justice ministry , where the attorney-general and prosecutors decide whether to file charges .
the attorney-general has expressed alarm about the proposed legislation .
[ l8n1nk5ek ] the two investigations in which netanyahu is a suspect are known as case 1000 and case 2000 .
case 1000 revolves around gifts he received from businessmen , including cigars and champagne .
netanyahu s lawyers say they were simply presents from long-time friends , with no quid pro quo .
case 2000 focuses on suspicions netanyahu negotiated with the publisher of israel s best-selling newspaper for better coverage in return for curbs on the competition .
the prime minister s lawyers say netanyahu never seriously considered any such deal .
netanyahu has described himself as a victim of a political witch hunt and said of the cases against him : there will be nothing because there is nothing .