barcelona ( reuters ) - supporters of catalan independence began occupying polling stations on friday , setting up a possible confrontation with police who have been ordered to clear them out by sunday morning to ensure a referendum can not go ahead .
the central government , which has sent thousands of police reinforcements to stop people voting and has attempted to dismantle the infrastructure needed to conduct the referendum it says is illegal , insisted it would not go ahead .
catalan leader carles puigdemont told reuters in an interview , however : everything is prepared at the more than 2,000 voting points so they have ballot boxes and voting slips , and have everything people need to express their opinion .
bands played at a closing rally for the referendum campaign in barcelona where people constructed the slogan referendum is democracy in big white letters on a stage in front of a cheering crowd , many draped in the red-and-yellow catalan flag .
people preparing to camp out in polling stations in order to defy court orders to close them were also in high spirits .
at one barcelona school , hector , a 43-year-old local , said five or six families would be spending the night .
we want to make sure the school is open for activities and at night when they might come to clear us out or empty it , there will be families sleeping or people in the street , he said , adding that they planned to play ping-pong and cook a fideua seafood dish on saturday .
the head of the catalan regional police ordered officers to evacuate and close polling stations by 6 a.m. on sunday , before the voting is due to open at 9 a.m .
in an internal memo published by la vanguardia newspaper , the police chief said force should be used only as a last resort .
at all times , before using force , you must take into account what might be the consequences of this police action and avoid the escalation of this situation , especially when there are children , elderly or other vulnerable people amongst the crowd , the document , whose authenticity was confirmed by a police spokeswoman , said .
so far , the catalan police , known as the mossos , a force that is held in affection in the region , particularly after the islamist attacks in august , have shown a friendly face .
the mossos have come to see what we are doing and they ve seen we re having a party , said 45-year-old ferran taberner who was at the school with his daughter .
if it gets complicated we ll stay inside peacefully and they won t move us .
organizers said 60,000 people had registered to participate in the mass school sleepover which they say will show peaceful resistance , even if they are prevented from voting .
i don t believe there will be anyone who will use violence or who will want to provoke violence that will tarnish the irreproachable image of the catalan independence movement as pacifist , puigdemont said .
at a news conference , regional officials displayed one of the white plastic ballot boxes bearing the crest of the regional government .
puigdemont has said more than 6,000 were being kept in a secret place .
police have confiscated thousands of voting slips , and courts have fined and threatened to arrest regional officials .
catalonia s high court ordered google ( goog.o ) to delete a smartphone application that the catalan government was using to spread information about the vote .
a company spokeswoman said google removes content when it receives a court order .
madrid , which claims the authority of a constitution that declares the country to be indivisible , remained implacably opposed to the vote , but also expressed the hope sunday would be peaceful .
i insist that there will be no referendum on oct. 1 , government spokesman inigo mendez de vigo said , adding that organizers would face criminal charges for trying to hold it .
in a sign that large crowds are expected on the streets on sunday , department store chain el corte ingles said it would shut three stores in central barcelona .
the central government said airspace above the city would be partly restricted .
credit rating agency s & p said that while it did not it expect catalonia , a wealthy region that borders france , to secede from spain , protracted tensions between madrid and barcelona could have a negative impact on the country s economic growth outlook .