barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - catalan secessionists were working on friday toward a unilateral declaration of independence from spain that could be adopted next week in defiance of a court order and increased economic pressure from madrid .
after spain s constitutional court suspended a session of the catalan regional parliament set for monday , which had been expected to endorse an independence declaration , the parliament said the region s pro-independence leader carles puigdemont would address the assembly at 6 p.m. ( 1600 gmt ) on tuesday .
madrid apologized for the first time on friday for police use of violence in trying to hinder a weekend referendum it had declared illegal .
that crackdown raised the temperature of a confrontation that has grown into the worst political crisis for decades in spain .
a catalan legislator was quoted by el mundo newspaper as saying secessionist parties in the catalan parliament were discussing an independence declaration to be submitted to the assembly next tuesday .
we are in talks about a text , with paper and pencil , on the declaration that we want the regional parliament to accept on tuesday , carles riera , a lawmaker from the pro-independence cup ( popular unity candidacy ) , was quoted as saying .
nobody has put forward any scenario of delay , ambiguity or confusion .
we are not working on that scenario , he said .
the stakes are high for the euro zone s fourth-largest economy .
catalonia is the source of a huge chunk of its tax revenue and hosts multinationals from carmaker volkswagen to drugs firm astrazeneca ( azn.l ) .
the catalan region s head of foreign affairs , raul romeva , told the bbc earlier that the catalan parliament intended to make a decision on independence , without specifying when .
parliament will discuss , parliament will meet .
it will be a debate and this is important , romeva said .
the spanish government stepped up economic pressure on the catalan government on friday by passing a law to make it easier for companies to move their operations around the country , potentially dealing a blow to the region s finances .
within hours of the government s move , caixabank ( cabk.mc ) , spain s third biggest lender and catalonia s biggest company , said its board had decided to move its registered office to valencia in light of the current political and social situation in catalonia .
catalonia-based utility gas natural ( gas.mc ) said its board had decided to move its registered office to madrid for as long as the legal uncertainty in catalonia continued .
they joined a number of other catalonia-based companies , including sabadell ( sabe.mc ) , spain s fifth-largest lender , that have already announced plans this week to move their registered offices elsewhere in spain .
spain made a conciliatory gesture in apologizing for sunday s referendum violence , where spanish police used batons and rubber bullets to stop people voting .
the scenes brought worldwide condemnation and fanned separatist feeling but failed to prevent what the catalan government described as an overwhelming yes vote .
when i see these images , and more so when i know people have been hit , pushed and even one person who was hospitalized , i can t help but regret it and apologize on behalf of the officers that intervened , enric millo , the spanish government s representative in catalonia , said in a television interview .
the apology came after the catalan newspaper la vanguardia quoted sources in puigdemont s party as saying a unilateral declaration of independence could be delayed if madrid made a gesture , such as withdrawing some spanish police reinforcements from the region .
artur mas , a former head of the catalan government who was barred from public office for two years in march for staging an informal independence referendum in 2014 , told the financial times on friday that the region had yet to lay the groundwork for real independence .
he said there was a debate among catalan leaders about whether now was the right time to unilaterally declare independence .
amid calls from many groups , including barcelona soccer club , for a mediated solution to the standoff , swiss state broadcaster rts said neutral switzerland was ready to help forge dialogue between the spanish government and catalonia .
the foreign ministry said switzerland was in touch with spain and catalonia but conditions for talks were not yet ripe .
puigdemont has called for international mediation to find a way out of the impasse .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy has offered all-party political talks to find a solution , opening the door to a deal giving catalonia more autonomy , but only if the catalan government gives up any independence ambitions .
you can t hold talks if people are outside the law , spanish government spokesman inigo mendez de vigo told reporters after the weekly cabinet meeting .
final referendum results released by the catalan regional government on friday showed 90.18 percent support for breaking away among the nearly 2.3 million people who voted .
but turnout was only about 43 percent as catalans who favor remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the ballot .
secession could fuel separatist-nationalist divisions across the rest of spain , which only this year saw eta guerrillas in the northern basque region lay down their arms after a campaign lasting almost half a century .
spanish ruling-party lawmakers say rajoy is considering invoking the constitution to dissolve the regional parliament and force fresh catalan elections if the region s government goes ahead with an independence declaration .
romeva s remarks about the catalan parliament pressing ahead with an independence debate hit spanish stocks and bonds , including shares in the region s two largest banks , caixabank and sabadell .
in a separate development that could raise tensions , catalan police chief josep lluis trapero appeared in spain s high court on friday to answer accusations he committed sedition by failing to enforce a court ban on holding the referendum .
opinion polls conducted before the vote suggest a minority of around 40 percent of residents in catalonia back independence .