new york ( reuters ) - former soviet leader mikhail gorbachev , celebrated in the west for championing democracy and helping end the cold war , sees little chance russia will turn from czarist-reminiscent , strongman government anytime in coming decades , the u.s. author of a new biography said on monday .
pulitzer prize-winning william taubman interviewed gorbachev , now 86 , eight times for his gorbachev : his life and times and said in the reuters global markets forum online chat room that gorbachev was widely disliked in russia .
here are edited excerpts : question : how do russians now see gorbachev , who was popular in the 1980s ?
answer : he is widely despised in russia .
people blame him for the collapse of the ussr , loss of its empire , the economic crash that accompanied the collapse , and also for seeming to be ( to them , at any rate ) a weak , indecisive leader .
q : why does russian president vladimir putin ignore gorbachev , even as he memorializes much russian history ?
a : putin has only gained by ignoring or criticizing gorbachev .
in many ways , putin s program is the opposite of gorbachev s. it is as if gorbachev has bequeathed the program , namely , the reverse of his own .
as for russia s dissatisfaction today , it is apparently growing as economic conditions worsen .
but putin has rallied support by annexing the crimea , by depicting the west as russia s enemy , by invoking the old czarist trinity of principles : autocracy , nationality , and orthodox religion .
q : does gorbachev have much hope of seeing a more democratic government ?
a : gorbachev himself says it might take decades to democratize russia , even the whole 21st century .
this from a man who had hoped to see democracy come to the ussr in a few short years .
q : is gorbachev content in his late life ?
a : he insists he is .
but i can t imagine he really is .
his innate optimism may sustain him .
but in addition to all the political attacks on him that continue , he now lives largely alone ( except for bodyguards , chefs and chauffeurs ) in a big house in the suburbs .
( ( this interview was conducted in the reuters global markets forum , a chat room hosted on the eikon platform . ) )