kabul ( reuters ) - ( this version of the july 23 story corrects reference to a-29 super tucano in para 7 .
the aircraft are built in the united states under an agreement between their brazilian manufacturer , embraer and sierra nevada corp. ) as the u.s. administration prepares its new strategy for afghanistan , the kabul government and its western allies are working hard to develop an air force that gives government forces the advantage in their war against taliban militants .
the level of equipment , training and assets falls far short of matching the air assets the americans still maintain in afghanistan , but billions of dollars are earmarked for the force which is being built up almost from scratch .
“ that is what will provide the asymmetric advantage to break the stalemate on the ground , ” brigadier-general phillip stewart , commander of taac-air , the resolute support mission advising the air force , told reuters .
a four-year , $ 7 billion expansion plan is aimed at training more flight and maintenance crews and increasing the number of aircraft in the afghan air force ( aaf ) .
“ in 2014 , remember , we ( nato and the u.s. military in afghanistan ) had the best air force in the world and the coalition pulled out and we realized we hadn ’ t grown the afghan air force , ” stewart said .
u.s. officers say the aim is to build a counter-insurgency force able to support troops fighting in remote and forbidding terrain with air strikes , supplies and intelligence .
the air force is already conducting some air strikes using brazilian-designed a-29 super tucano light attack aircraft and specially adapted md-530 scout helicopters and it is building capacity in other areas .
last month , an afghan air crew parachuted around 400 kg of supplies to an isolated border police outpost , the first time the aaf had conducted an aerial supply drop .
“ we can do casualty evacuations , we can take cargo , we can take ammunition , we can transport vehicles to different places where they can ’ t go by road , ” said major khail shinwari , an afghan c-130 hercules pilot .
the aaf has about 120 aircraft in service , ranging from small propeller cessna 208s to old soviet-era helicopters , as well as the a-29s , md-530s and its four veteran c-130 hercules transporters .
in coming years , the old russian mi-17s helicopters , which are increasingly difficult to maintain , will be replaced by american uh-60 black hawks .
the aaf says it is flying up to 140 sorties a day , carrying supplies and providing close air support to troops fighting the afghan taliban and islamic state .
but whether it can be built up quickly enough to turn the tide against the stubborn taliban insurgency is unclear .
all the air power of the nato-led coalition was not enough to defeat the militants and the aaf is nowhere near being able operate alone .
u.s. drones , f-16s and apache attack helicopters are still heavily engaged in areas like helmand , where u.s. aircraft conducted at least 52 air strikes in the space of five days last week in support of afghan forces .
for the moment , the afghan a-29s are still using unguided bombs rather than the guided weapons used by the americans , and the md-530 helicopters , which came into service in 2015 , fire machine guns and rockets attached to their landing gear .
“ it ’ s close air support but not as anyone who grew up in the u.s. air force would understand it , ” stewart said .
“ it ’ s not precision , it ’ s .50 cal ( ibre machine guns ) and rockets but they get close to their work and they ’ re very good. ” u.s. trainers say afghan pilots and crews are being trained to a standard comparable with their american counterparts .
but the length of time it takes to train crews - up to four years for pilots and as much as seven years for specialized mechanics - means it will be years before the air force can operate fully independently .
for the moment , the emphasis is on building a force suitable for afghanistan , which means using less complicated equipment such as the c-208s or md-350 helicopters “ at the expense of maybe getting some bigger , sexier platform , ” stewart said .
the aim is to increase the effectiveness of the security forces , which advisers hope to get to a point where the taliban are forced to negotiate a political settlement .
as the aaf has grown , however , it has faced increasing pressure from army units to step up operations .
advisers say one of the main risks it faces is overstretch .
“ they just don ’ t have the airplanes and sometimes the ground forces will become frustrated because they want more , ” stewart said .