washington ( reuters ) - a small group of republican lawmakers will join president barack obama ’ s historic trip to cuba on sunday , underlining growing divisions in the party over the future of the united states ’ trade embargo against the island nation .
at least five republicans , all known for favoring normal trade relations with cuba , will make the trip , congressional sources and lawmakers told reuters .
republican congressional leaders have made opposition to president barack obama ’ s easing of the cuban trade embargo a hallmark of their foreign policy .
but an increasing number of party members , drawn by the economic benefits of scrapping the cold war-era embargo , are lining up to back the white house .
“ this is the right policy .
he ’ s done the right thing , ” said republican senator jeff flake , an outspoken proponent of closer ties with cuba who is going to havana .
besides flake , republicans making the trip include house of representatives members mark sanford , tom emmer and reid ribble , as well as senator dean heller , congressional sources and lawmakers said .
all of the representatives confirmed their participation , except for heller , whose office declined requests for comment .
but other lawmakers confirmed his travel .
republicans backing obama ’ s policy cut against the grain of the party ’ s establishment thinking that seeks to avoid giving obama any kind of policy win , either domestically or internationally .
normalizing relations with cuba would be a significant foreign policy legacy for obama .
many republicans see the embargo as contrary to their party ’ s pro-business tenets and believe the government should not tell citizens where they can travel .
“ it ’ s about americans ’ freedom and embracing engagement rather than isolation as a way of changing other governments , ” sanford said in a facebook post explaining his decision to make the trip .
at least 15 of the 54 republicans in the senate , mostly members from states like kansas where agriculture is a significant industry , have publicly backed increased cuban trade or fewer restrictions on travel .
supporters of obama ’ s policy say the total number of republican supporters in the house and senate reaches several dozen .
some members say they want to see how the election plays out before speaking publicly .
the u.s. embargo on cuba , first imposed in 1960 , can be lifted only via a majority vote in congress , which is now controlled by republicans .
obama and cuban president raul castro shocked the world in december 2014 by abruptly announcing the cold war adversaries would move to normalize relations after more than a half-century ’ s estrangement .
the news drew immediate condemnation in congress , where a bloc of mostly republican cuban-american lawmakers has worked to keep tight restrictions on trade and travel with cuba for years .
although polls show 72 percent of americans want to abandon the embargo , the republican party line has firmly supported the restrictions .
critics of obama ’ s policy say cuba ’ s government is still too repressive for the united states to ease restrictions .
but this week businessman donald trump , who has questioned the embargo , easily won the republican primary in florida , defeating leading embargo advocate senator marco rubio .
trump ’ s victory countered the long-standing assumption that the state ’ s cuban exiles would defeat any anti-embargo candidate .
a young generation of cuban-americans has warmed to obama ’ s engagement policy , with many excited about the chance to open businesses in their homeland .
ribble , a founder of the house cuba working group who is going on the trip , represents wisconsin , one of several states where farmers want the chance to sell to an island just 90 miles from the u.s. coast .
“ american producers are missing out on a market that imports the vast majority of its agricultural products , and cubans are missing out on exposure to the freedom and democracy that lies just 90 miles from their shore , ” ribble said in a statement .
( this story corrects name to dean heller not mark in paragraph 5 . )