( reuters ) - like any republican candidate , front-runner donald trump needs to collect a majority of the party ’ s 2,472 delegates in state nominating contests to become his party ’ s candidate for the u.s. presidential election in november .
if he falls short of that 1,237 threshold , the republican party ’ s delegates will need to pick their nominee at a contested convention in cleveland in july , by following a complex process of sequential votes .
trump currently has 673 delegates , after winning nominating contests in florida , illinois , and north carolina on march 15 , according to the associated press .
that compares with 411 delegates for u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and 143 for ohio governor john kasich .
u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , who had 168 delegates , dropped out of the race on tuesday night after losing his home state to trump .
at this point , trump would need to win around 55 percent of the delegates still up for grabs in order to avoid a contested republican convention in july .
that is a tall order for a candidate who has so far been scoring in the mid-to-high 40 percent range in state contests - though his chances could improve given that several upcoming state primaries are winner-take-all .
if trump walks into the convention in july with the most delegates , but falls short of the 1,237 threshold , delegates will start a sequence of floor votes .
in the first vote , at least 5 percent of the total 2,472 republican delegates are unbound - meaning they can vote as they please .
the other delegates must vote according to the result of the voting district they represent .
if no candidate reaches the 1,237 threshold in that vote , a second vote is held , this time with a larger proportion of delegates becoming unbound .
this process continues , with more delegates becoming unbound with each new vote , until a candidate gets a majority and wins the party nomination to run for the presidency .
all bets are off , however , if different rules are adopted before the convention , which is always a possibility .
the republican national committee rules committee will meet ahead of the convention to draw up bylaws .