islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan has told at least 10 foreign-funded aid groups to close , an umbrella agency said on wednesday , including a charity founded by hedge fund billionaire and philanthropist george soros , the group said .
pakistan has toughened its stance towards domestic and international non-governmental groups in recent years , accusing some of using their work as a cover for espionage .
in january , it ordered about a dozen groups working on women s issues and human rights to halt their operations .
a representative of the pakistan humanitarian forum ( phf ) , which represents 63 international aid groups , said the ministry of interior had issued 10 of its members letters of rejection , meaning their applications to register had been rejected .
the forum did not identify the 10 groups but two international groups , the pakistani branch of the soros charity the open society foundations , and actionaid , said they had been told they had to close .
we obviously find what has happened both disappointing and surprising , and are urgently seeking clarification , the executive director of the open society s pakistani office , saba khattak , said in a statement .
the group had spent $ 37 million on grants and relief assistance in pakistan since 2005 , she said .
the interior ministry did not respond to requests for comment .
however , the ministry , in a letter to one of the 10 groups and seen by reuters , said its registration application had been denied .
wind up operations/activities of above said ingo within 60 days , the ministry said in the letter .
it did give a reason why the group had to stop its work .
the ministry lists 139 international non-governmental organizations ( ingo ) on its website that have submitted registration applications , of which 72 are still being processed .
there is no list of those whose applications have been denied .
during the lengthy ingo registration process we provided all the information and documents required and are confident we comply with all necessary rules and regulations , actionaid country director iftikhar nizami said in a statement .
this year , medical charity medecins sans frontieres was ordered to stop work at three facilities in violence-plagued ethnic pashtun areas bordering afghanistan , although the interior ministry lists the group as an approved ingo .
the save the children aid group fell afoul of the government in 2011 , when it was linked to a pakistani doctor recruited by the cia to help in the hunt that led to the killing of al qaeda militant leader osama bin laden in the town of abbottabad .
save the children s foreign staff were expelled from pakistan soon after the accusations surfaced , but more than 1,000 local staff continued to operate .
the charity denied any links with the doctor or the cia .