dublin ( reuters ) - sinn fein president gerry adams said on tuesday he would outline his succession plans in november as the former political wing of the irish republican army ( ira ) prepares to complete a generational shift in its leadership .
adams , sinn fein leader for over 30 years , will seek re-election to the one-year post at the party s annual conference and set out his future plans at that time .
i will be allowing my name to go forward for the position of uachtaran shinn fein ( president of sinn fein ) , adams said in a speech at a meeting of the party s lawmakers .
and if elected i will be setting out our priorities and in particular our planned process of generational change , including my own future intentions .
reviled by many as the face of the ira during its campaign against british rule in northern ireland , adams , 69 next month , reinvented himself as a peacemaker in the troubled region and then as a populist opposition lawmaker in the irish republic .
around 3,600 people were killed during northern ireland s troubles , three decades of sectarian bloodshed between pro-british protestant unionists and catholic nationalists seeking a united ireland that was ended by a 1998 peace agreement .
whenever he decides to step down , he will almost certainly hand over to a successor with no direct involvement in the decades of conflict in northern ireland , say political analysts , making sinn fein a more palatable coalition partner in the irish republic where it has never been in power .
deputy leader mary lou mcdonald , who has been at the forefront of a new breed of sinn fein politicians transforming the left-wing party s image , is the clear favorite to take over .
michelle o neill , another sinn fein lawmaker in her 40s , succeeded martin mcguinness as leader in northern ireland shortly before the former ira commander s death in march .
with mcguinness , adams turned sinn fein into the dominant nationalist party in northern ireland and the third largest party south of the border .
adams said last month that he intended to lead the party into the next parliamentary election in the irish republic where suspicion of sinn fein s role in the northern ireland troubles still runs deep among the main political parties .
the far larger ruling fine gael and main opposition fianna fail , a more natural ally , have ruled out governing with sinn fein but analysts say a change of leader could soften that stance .
the next election is expected in the next 12 months .