sydney ( reuters ) - papua new guinea will delay by at least 24 hours a plan to forcibly evict hundreds of men from an abandoned australian detention center , three asylum seekers said on saturday .
hundreds of men have barricaded themselves into the manus island center for more than 11 days without regular food or water , defying closure bids by australia and papua new guinea in what the united nations calls a looming humanitarian crisis .
rejecting united nations calls to restore utilities to the camp , papua new guinea this week said it would apprehend those responsible for the stand-off when it forcibly evicted the men on saturday .
but several asylum seekers said papua new guinea officials told them detainees could remain until sunday .
police are talking on a microphone outside prison , behrouz boochani , a kurdish journalist from iran , who has spent more than four years detained in the camp , told reuters .
they re telling the refugees to leave , saying tomorrow will be the last day you are here , he said in a text message .
it was not immediately clear what caused the postponement .
pressure on the asylum seekers , drawn largely from afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka , and syria , has grown in recent days as papua new guinea tries to get them to move to three transit centers .
the asylum seekers fear reprisals if they move to the transit centers , pending possible resettlement in the united states .
the main camp was closed on oct. 31 and water and power have been cut off .
some island-dwellers are angry at what they perceive as preferential treatment for the asylum seekers , many of them well educated , in a poor , rural society , and some detainees have come under attack when on release from the camp .
the patience of papua new guinea authorities has begun to wane , however , and they moved this week to remove camp fences and dismantle rainwater collection bins and makeshift shelters built to ward off the tropical sun and rain .
under pressure , groups of men have elected to move to the transit centers .
but the exact number left is difficult to ascertain , though manus island police commander david yapu told the australian broadcasting corporation about 400 remain .
several of those remaining told reuters they would not move , setting the scene for a potential clash , which would further stoke international criticism of australia .
australia has used the center , and a camp on the tiny pacific island of nauru , to detain asylum seekers who try to reach its shores by boat .
it says boat arrivals will never enter australia , even if found to be refugees , as this would encourage people smugglers in asia .
australia says the policy prevents people drowning at sea , but it has been widely condemned .
acting prime minister julie bishop said there was no reason for the remaining men to choose to stay , rejecting criticism of inadequate facilities at the transit centers .
over the last few months they have traveled to east lorengau on many occasions and never raised any concerns , bishop told reporters in perth .