senator mike lee gives it right back to fox s martha maccallum when she grilled him on why the senate won t accept a supreme court nominee : martha maccallum ( host ) : the president has laid out i think what anyone would say is a very fair set of circumstances for nominating someone , so why not give this person hearing ? sen .
mike lee ( r-ut ) : ok that all sounds great .
we do have to remember martha , we re talking about a lame duck president in his final months of office who is talking about making a lifetime appointment to the highest court in the land , a court which in recent years has played an increasingly large role in the development of public policy .
and we think the american people have a voice , that voice should be heard and the american people ought to be able to choose their next president and have the next president , whether that s a republican or democrat , make the choice.maccallum : yeah but i think , senator , with all due respect , wouldn t the american people say we elected president obama ?
we also elected the senators who are currently in office , and we expect them both , on both sides to do their job .
the president s job is to name a nominee , your job is to give that person a hearing and either appoint or not .
either consent , to give consent , or not .
so why not go through the process ?
why do you get to decide that ? lee : you re absolutely right that elections have consequences .
president obama was elected again as president in 2012 .
senate elections also have consequences and when republicans were elected to the majority in the senate after the 2014 elections , we had an increasingly large role to play in the system .
now you re also absolutely right , the president has the right to nominate .
that is his prerogative .
it s also the senate s right to decide when , whether , how , to what extent , to confirm someone and here what we re saying is , we think that it s very important to maintain a tradition , a tradition that goes all the way back to 1888 by the way .
1888 was the last time you had a supreme court vacancy arise during a presidential election year , and the last time that that vacancy arising during the presidential election year was filled during the same year , and confirmed by a senate that was run by a party opposite the president s party.maccallum : i think everybody listens to that and understands what you are saying and that there s but i don t think that gets around the basic requirement to do the job , to go through the process and if you all decide that you don t want to give consent to that person , well that s absolutely your right .
and just given your background and being such an adherent to the constitution , it seems somewhat surprising i think to some people to take that attitude .
and it also feeds in perhaps to the notion that people in your position don t want to are blocking things from happening on capitol hill.lee : we are blocking this from happening , make no mistake about it .
we are blocking this one .
and we feel it s our obligation to do so .
we think that especially with this president who has overstepped his constitutional boundaries so many times [ crosstalk ] maccallum : but then why does it make it right on to do that on your side ?
you can look at this person and say no thank you , we don t like this person , but why the hesitation to have a hearing ?
to do the process ?
i think that s what people have a hard time understanding.via : media matters