rome/tripoli ( reuters ) - italy wants libya s coastguard to take responsibility within three years for intercepting migrants across about a tenth of the mediterranean even as libyan crews struggle to patrol their own coast and are accused of making deadly mistakes at sea .
six years after the revolution that overthrew muammar gaddafi , libya is split between rival governments in the east and west while ports and beaches are largely in the hands of armed groups .
for a graphic on italy 's handover of sea rescues to libya , click tmsnrt.rs/2o1wlc6 migrant smuggling has flourished , with more than 600,000 making the perilous journey across the central mediterranean in four years .
migrants transiting through libya often endure appalling conditions , including rape , torture and forced labor .
the italian plan , outlined in a slide presentation seen by reuters , shows that italy and the european union are focusing on rebuilding libya s navy and coastguard so they can stop boats .
but aid groups say the libyans are poorly trained and accuse them of mishandling a rescue last month in which some 50 people are thought to have died .
the libyans return all migrants , including refugees , to libya even though the situation on the ground there is far from resolved .
italy has been coordinating rescues off the libyan coast since 2013 .
the 30 slides show spending of 44 million euros ( $ 52 million ) to expand libya s capacity by 2020 , equipping the coastguard and enabling it to establish its own rescue coordination center as well as a vast maritime search-and-rescue region .
it also foresees a pilot project for monitoring libya s southern border .
the project draws on european union and italian funds , and needs eu approval .
the plan was presented by the italian coastguard at a conference hosted by the eu s anti-trafficking mission , sophia , in rome last month .
representatives from the eu , non-governmental groups and various mediterranean navies and coastguards attended the closed-door presentation , said a source who was present .
libya s coastguard has already been pushing further into international waters , often firing warning shots or speeding close to charity boats .
over the summer , three charities abandoned rescue operations in part because of fears of the increasing libyan sea presence .
arrivals to italy have fallen by two-thirds since july from the same period last year after officials working for the u.n.-backed government in tripoli , italy s partner , persuaded human smugglers in the city of sabratha to stop boats leaving .
the libyan coastguard also increased the rate of its interceptions , turning back about 20,000 this year , though it still only stops a portion of the boats .
the crisis remains a major issue in italy .
state shelters for asylum seekers are nearly full , and with elections looming politicians across the spectrum insist the flows from north africa be stopped , which the new scheme is likely to address .
italy s coastguard did not reply to a request for comment .
the prime minister s office referred questions to the interior ministry , which is spearheading the effort to fight people smuggling in libya and also had no comment .
each nation has the right to declare its own search-and-rescue zone , and to carry out search-and-rescue operations , a defence ministry spokesman said , citing international law .
ayoub qassem , a libyan coastguard spokesman , said he did not have details of the plan , but both sides recognized the need to cooperate in tackling irregular migration .
recently the italian side has been eager to cooperate with libya because it s more effective than working without libya that s natural , he said .
italy has supplied libya with four refurbished vessels so far , and six more have been promised , while the eu has trained about 220 libyan coastguards .
but rights groups and aid workers say partnering with libya s unprofessional coastguard risks exposing migrants to drowning during rescues or to further rights abuses if sent back to detention centers inside libya .
from the testimony we hear from the migrants , we know that people intercepted at sea have then re-entered the circle of violence and imprisonment and abuse that they were fleeing , said nicola stalla , search-and-rescue chief for sos mediterranee , one of the charities still operating off libya .
activists also point to incidents such as one on nov. 6 , when crew members of the german humanitarian ship sea watch 3 witnessed a libyan naval vessel draw alongside an inflatable migrant boat .
when people fell into the water , sea watch used small rubber speedboats to pull people from the water while the libyans looked on .
some migrants who climbed on board the libyan vessel were whipped with ropes , and the libyan boat sped off with a man still dangling in the water , according to videos shot by sea watch and crew member gennaro giudetti , who pulled the body of a lifeless 2 1/2-year-old nigerian boy named great from the water .
they watched us and shot videos .
they even threw potatoes at us .
that s not how you save lives , said giudetti .
libya s naval coastguard accused sea watch of obstructing the rescue and trying to lure away migrants who had already boarded their ship .
some migrants jumped into the water to try to reach sea watch rescuers .
the libyans said their smaller speedboats , which are mounted on larger patrol vessels and are the safest to use for rescues , were broken .
we have only one or two of these boats and they do not work , so how we can put them into the water ?
qassem , the coastguard spokesman , told reuters .
the expansion of libyan patrols has led to confusion and competition over who should take the lead during rescues .
some charity ships say they have been directed to hold off rescues to allow the libyans to arrive , putting migrants at risk .
libya s search-and-rescue region extends 90 miles from shore in some places , and 200 miles in others , qassem said .
this summer the libyans notified the international maritime organization about plans to take over a large search and rescue region , but withdrew the notification this month , saying it would resubmit a new one soon , an imo spokeswoman said .
it would be the first time libya has set up a search-and-rescue region , she said .
the italian plan proposes helping libya formally declare such a zone .
it would also provide for training , maintenance , new cars , ambulances and buses , communications equipment and clothing .
full operation capability is seen by the end of 2020 .