geneva ( reuters ) - leaders of spain s industrialized northeastern region of catalonia have said the regional population voted for independence in a ballot that the central government and constitutional court say was illegal .
the push for catalan independence does not appear to find much support in international law nor much successful precedent .
here is a look at how to achieve independent statehood , in law and practice .
as a matter of international law you become a state by being recognized by other states , said anna stilz , professor of politics at princeton university .
she declined to comment on the catalan case , but said there were several accepted scenarios for a group of people to claim the right to rule themselves independently of any other country .
the right of self-determination is conventionally thought not to extend to internal minorities within a state .
it s conventionally thought only to apply to colonized people , people subject to overseas colonization , peoples who are subject to an apartheid government or peoples under military occupation .
the idea of self-determination , popularized by u.s. president woodrow wilson a century ago in response to the ideas of russian revolutionary vladimir lenin , was hard-coded into u.n. charter establishing the united nations in 1945 .
subsequent u.n. agreements clarified that there was to be no interference in other states , although colonies and other non-self-governing territories had a distinct status and a right to self-determination .
there is no hard and fast rule about how many countries recognition is required for a state to be recognized as such .
taiwan is not universally recognized as a state but still functions independently of china for most purposes .
supporters of an independent state of palestine achieved a breakthrough when the u.n. general assembly recognized it as a non-member observer state in 2012 , giving it a ticket to join international bodies such as interpol .
but other countries crucially israel and the united states do not recognize it , and it struggles to operate independently .
the 1933 montevideo convention sets out four criteria for statehood : a functioning government , a fixed population , control over territory and the capacity to enter into relations with other states .
but ticking those boxes is not enough .
an entity like somaliland , with its own currency , territory and government , is not recognized as a state , stilz said .
u.n. membership is also irrelevant to statehood switzerland was not a u.n. member until 2002 but nobody thought it less of a state .
since the break-up of the soviet union in 1991 , several new countries have arisen after years of war , such as in former yugoslavia .
in south sudan and east timor , the international community approved referendums on self-determination in hopes of cementing the peace after decades of bloodshed .
the shadow of yugoslavia s war ensured czechoslovakia s divorce triggered when slovak independence parties won regional elections was peaceful .
but opinion polls showed a majority on both sides would have preferred to stay together .
separatists in scotland and quebec held referendums after years of political campaigning , but both votes went against independence .
both regions had been granted greater autonomy to undermine the case for independence .
other referendums were not internationally recognized , such as the russian-backed claim for crimea to leave ukraine , and last month s vote in iraqi kurdistan .
kosovo unilaterally declared secession in 2008 from serbia , which went to court to try and stop it .
the international court of justice ruled that international law contains no applicable prohibition of declaration of independence although one dissenting judge said it created a very dangerous precedent .
( this refiled version of the story removes reference to margin of victories in par 16 ) .