ankara ( reuters ) - a formal u.s. recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel would cause catastrophe and lead to new conflict in the middle east , turkish deputy prime minister bekir bozdag said on monday .
speaking to reporters after a cabinet meeting , bozdag , who is also the government spokesman , said jerusalem s status had been determined by international agreements and that preserving it was important for the peace of the region .
the status of jerusalem and temple mount have been determined by international agreements .
it is important to preserve jerusalem s status for the sake of protecting peace in the region , bozdag said .
if another step is taken and this step is lifted , this will be a major catastrophe .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war .
it later annexed it , declaring the whole of the city as its capital a move not recognized internationally .
palestinians want jerusalem as the capital of their future state .
on sunday , u.s. president donald trump s adviser and son-in-law said trump had not yet made a decision on whether to formally recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , a move that would break with decades of u.s. policy .
past u.s. presidents have insisted that the status of jerusalem home to sites holy to the jewish , muslim and christian religions must be decided in negotiations .
on saturday , turkish president tayyip erdogan held a phone call with palestinian president mahmoud abbas in which they discussed the status of jerusalem , sources in erdogan s office said .
the sources said erdogan told abbas that preserving the status of jerusalem was important for all muslim countries , adding that international laws and united nations decisions should be followed on the issue .
any move by the united states to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital would fuel extremism and violence , arab league secretary-general ahmed aboul gheit said on saturday .
a senior jordanian source said on sunday that amman has begun consultations on convening an emergency meeting of the arab league and the organisation of islamic cooperation before trump s expected declaration this week .