berlin ( reuters ) - later this year , angela merkel may form a new government with a party whose leader says greece should leave the euro , russia can keep crimea and refugees will have to go home .
the free democrats ( fdp ) , a socially liberal , pro-business party , were long seen as the natural partners of chancellor merkel s conservatives .
they ruled in coalition with her mentor , former chancellor helmut kohl , for 16 years and were junior partners in merkel s second government , from 2009 to 2013 .
but after crashing out of the german parliament four years ago , the fdp also known as the liberals were forced to reinvent themselves .
and the new incarnation , led by an ambitious 38-year-old who preaches an ultra-hard line on europe , has unsettled the german political establishment , including members of merkel s party .
nevertheless , if her conservatives can form a government with the fdp after a sept. 24 election , merkel will have little choice but to link up with the party and its young leader christian lindner .
( for a graphic on german federal elections click tmsnrt.rs/2h0nqct ) for her center-right cdu/csu , the prospect of reviving an alliance with the party s historic partner will be hard to resist , especially after four years of a right-left coalition with their longtime rivals , the social democrats ( spd ) .
merkel s horror scenario is a narrow majority with the fdp , said frank decker , a political scientist who was lindner s thesis adviser at bonn university .
she would have no choice .
she would be condemned to govern with them .
polls give merkel s cdu/csu bloc and the fdp a combined score of roughly 45 percent , just shy of a majority .
if they do fall short , the fdp could still enter the government as part of an unwieldy three-way coalition that also includes the greens .
in 2013 , after its former leader guido westerwelle failed to deliver on his promise of tax cuts , the party scored just 4.8 percent , the first time in the post-war era it failed to make the 5 percent threshold needed to enter parliament .
later this month , it is expected to double its score of four years ago .
lindner , with his banker suits and designer stubble , has almost single-handedly hauled the fdp back from the political wilderness .
german media have likened him to french president emmanuel macron : the two are just a year apart in age and share a healthy self-esteem .
in the fdp s highly personalized campaign posters , a brooding lindner is shown in black and white , staring off-camera , like a model from a 1990s calvin klein ad .
look beneath the surface however , and there are big differences between lindner and macron .
the french leader is promising to work with the next german government on an overhaul of the euro zone , introducing a budget and finance minister for the currency bloc .
lindner has dismissed those ideas with an aggressiveness that has surprised even some of his closest allies .
if one takes lindner and the fdp s campaign manifesto at face value , the party would introduce automatic sanctions for countries that violate eu budget rules , do away with the euro zone s bailout fund and make it easier for countries to leave the currency .
greece is a favorite target .
two weeks ago , lindner told a banking conference in frankfurt that a reintroduction of the drachma would be a boon for the country .
all those who vacation in mallorca would go to the greek islands instead , he said .
martin lueck , an investment strategist at blackrock , sees a risk that the euro crisis could return , with italian borrowing costs spiraling higher , if the fdp makes it into government .
fdp officials play down such risks , pointing to moderating influences in the party like members of the european parliament alexander graf lambsdorff and michael theurer .
our program is about direction .
it shows what we would do if we were able to govern alone , which of course won t be possible , one senior official said .
but aides to merkel acknowledge that she would probably be more limited in what she could achieve with macron if the fdp were a partner , particularly if lindner became finance minister .
he could make our european partners nostalgic for wolfgang schaeuble , one aide quipped , referring to merkel s current finance minister , who is seen as a hardliner himself .
if the fdp were to end up in a three-way coalition with the greens , its more radical ideas would surely be blunted .
that is why some members of merkel s party say she would prefer a jamaica coalition so named because the colors of the parties would match those of the green , yellow and black jamaican flag to a two-way alliance with the fdp .
in the final stretch , lindner has floated an array of controversial ideas in an apparent attempt to lure voters from the hard-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party .
last month , he recommended accepting russia s 2014 annexation of the crimea region of ukraine as a permanent provisional arrangement .
last week , he said refugees should be forced to go home as soon as peace returned to the middle east countries from which they fled .
even fdp members say they have trouble discerning how much of this is mere pre-election posturing .
as the party s identity has become intertwined with its leader lindner , its core beliefs have become muddied .
the picture may become clearer on sunday , when the fdp is due to unveil a l0-point list of policy priorities .
expect a modern twist on classic fdp positions tax cuts , investments in broadband and a canada-style immigration law making it easier to bring in skilled workers that are closer to those of other european liberals like macron .
regardless , the fdp faces a steep learning curve if it makes the leap from outside parliament into government a feat no party has achieved since the 1950s .
two-thirds of the fdp candidates who could win bundestag seats have never worked there before .
only one has cabinet-level experience in berlin .
we ll see whether they have learned the lessons of the past , said decker .
westerwelle was a great opposition leader but struggled in government .
lindner must avoid the same fate .