beirut ( reuters ) - buses carrying evacuated islamic state fighters reached syria s deir al-zor on wednesday in return for releasing a hezbollah prisoner , a commander in the pro-damascus alliance told reuters .
damascus and hezbollah allowed nearly 300 lightly armed militants and 300 relatives to leave the syria-lebanon border in a surrender deal , after an offensive there last month .
the transfer marked the first time islamic state publicly agreed to such an evacuation from territory it held .
a u.s.-led coalition had stopped the 17 buses from reaching deir al-zor for weeks and the convoy split in two .
it was not immediately clear if all the buses arrived in islamic state territory in the eastern syrian province on wednesday .
the deal has been completed , said the commander in the military alliance fighting in support of the damascus government .
the buses took the route between the town of al-sukhna and deir al-zor , a main road that the syrian army and allied forces captured in recent days , the commander said .
along the route , the combatants swapped the evacuees for a hezbollah prisoner who had been in islamic state captivity , the non-syrian commander added .
under the evacuation deal in august , islamic state militants left their border foothold after a week-long battle in return for safe passage to deir al-zor province in syria .
iran-backed hezbollah has played a major role in fighting sunni militants along the border .
since early in the six-year syrian conflict , it has sent thousands of fighters to support president bashar al-assad s government .
lebanon s shi ite hezbollah retrieved the remains of some of its forces killed in syria as part of the swap , and was meant to get back one of its fighters that islamic state held captive .
the deal included recovering the bodies of nine lebanese soldiers that islamic state captured in 2014 .
the transfer ended any insurgent presence from the syrian war on the frontier , where the lebanese army also fought the militants in a separate offensive on its side .
but the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state blocked the convoy from entering is territory in east syria , near the border with iraq , by cratering roads and destroying bridges .
the convoy split in two , with 11 buses remaining in the open desert and others retreating into government territory .
last week , the u.s. coalition said its surveillance aircraft moved away from the buses in the no-man s land after pro-syrian government forces advanced past the convoy .
damascus was responsible for the evacuees , it said .
the syrian army and its allies reached deir al-zor city , breaking an islamic state siege of an enclave there that had lasted three years .
u.s.-backed syrian militias have also launched a separate assault in another part of deir al-zor province , which has become islamic state s last major foothold in syria .