my success in the financial markets has given me a greater degree of independence than most other people , soros once wrote .
this allows me to take a stand on controversial issues : in fact , it obliges me to do so because others can not .
-george sorosmore and obs , two groups funded by george soros , advertised money available for people willing to travel to protest ( @ organizemo is the twitter account of more ) : listen to radical socialist george soros talk about his innocuous < sarcasm > and oh so transparent little organization here : george soros gives billions to left-wing causes : soros started the open society institute in 1993 as a way to spread his wealth to progressive causes .
using open society as a conduit , soros has given more than $ 7 billion to a who s who of left-wing groups .
this partial list of recipients of soros money says it all : acorn , apollo alliance , national council of la raza , tides foundation , huffington post , southern poverty law center , soujourners , people for the american way , planned parenthood , and the national organization for women.george soros wants to curtail american sovereignty : soros would like nothing better than for america to become subservient to international bodies .
he wants more power for groups such as the world bank and international monetary fund , even while saying the u.s. role in the imf should be downsized .
in 1998 , he wrote : insofar as there are collective interests that transcend state boundaries , the sovereignty of states must be subordinated to international law and international institutions .
after protesters protested not getting their checks from more on may 14th , more allegedly distributed the following list as to who was paid to protest in ferguson and elsewhere , to show where the money had been going.obviously , as we ve mentioned before , this is far from a grass roots spontaneous protest.you can see money paid out to lisa fithian , $ 1,127.75 for visit expenses .for those who do not know , lisa fithian is an infamous leftist organizer .
she organized at occupy , but has been used as a training organizer for many years before that .
she spent time in ferguson in 2014 training people to simulate chaos .
is it possible that george soros has a love affair with lisa fithian because of their common hatred for israel ? also of note , you can see that some people are being paid to travel to other places to protest , you can see the travel to selma , and to d.c. , as well as money paid out for vans , including to a union for providing the vans .
elizabeth vega got $ 2000 for activist trip to baltimore .there is money paid for protester supplies and protester catering , as well as for video recording of the protests .
some things were not so defined such as $ 2000 to taylor payne for support . $ 52,815 is paid to more .
money clearly was to go through them to the protesters , according to the protesters during their # cuthtechecks protest.there are big payouts to jeff ordower .
jeff ordower is a bit like a male lisa fithian , he was an organizer for the seiu and acorn .
he founded more and his stated goal is welcoming co-conspirators in attempts to scale up numbers of radical organizers who can financially support themselves in the work .
he is the white man protesters are complaining to in this clip , when they protested not getting paid .
he would appear to be disburser of the checks.wcc hot seat pic.twitter.com/uo65ic2uuz search4swag ( @ search4swag ) may 14 , 2015brittany ferrell and ashley yates receive thousands on behalf of mau , millenial activists united , one of the protester groups .
ferrell , tries to justify her position in this facebook post where she blames ordower for screwing everything up .
via : weasel zippers