beirut ( reuters ) - syrian government forces on tuesday reached troops besieged for years by islamic state in the eastern city of deir al-zor , the militants last major stronghold in syria , the army said .
tanks and troops pressed quickly toward a government-held enclave in the city , where islamic state has trapped thousands of civilians and syrian soldiers since 2014 .
the advance has opened a land route linking that territory to the outside .
the advance into strategic prize deir al-zor , a city on the euphrates river and once the center of syria s oil industry , is a significant victory for president bashar al-assad against islamic state and another stinging blow to the group .
the group is being fought in syria by government forces , backed by allies iran and russia , and separately by a u.s.-led alliance of arab and kurdish fighters .
in iraq , the jihadists were driven out of their mosul stronghold earlier this year .
islamic state still holds half of deir al-zor city and much of the province , however , as well as parts of its former stronghold raqqa to the northwest , where the u.s.-backed offensive is being fought .
our armed forces and allies , with support from syrian and russian warplanes , achieved the second phase of their operations in the syrian desert , syria s military said .
they have managed to break the siege .
state media and a war monitoring group said advancing forces had linked up with the besieged troops at a garrison on the western edge of the city .
footage on syrian state tv showed soldiers cheering near the garrison .
state media said residents in government-held parts of the city were celebrating the advance .
the syrian observatory for human rights said a nearby military air base and three districts remained under siege by is .
battles still raged around the city , the british-based war monitor said .
deir al-zor governor mohammed ibrahim samra told reuters that government troops were also pushing toward the air base .
the forces have begun to lift the siege , he said .
our residents have been waiting for this moment ... forces are ( trying to ) break the siege on the military airport as well .
the coming days will see the clearing of deir al-zor city ( of militants ) and advances on nearby countryside under islamic state control , samra added .
assad congratulated the troops in a statement from his office .
the army and its allies made rapid advances in recent days pushing through islamic state lines with the help of heavy artillery and russian air strikes .
a russian warship in the mediterranean sea fired cruise missiles at islamic state positions near deir al-zor to boost the offensive , russia s defense ministry said .
the city has been cut off from government-held syria since 2013 , after rebel groups rose up against assad during the first flush of syria s six-year war .
islamic state then overran rebel positions and encircled the army enclave and nearby air base in 2014 .
the united nations said in august it estimated 93,000 civilians were living there in extremely difficult conditions .
during the siege , high-altitude air drops have supplied them .
deir al-zor lies southeast of islamic state s former base in raqqa .
hemmed in on all sides , islamic state fighters have fallen back on footholds downstream of deir al-zor in towns near the iraq border .
the deir al-zor gains form an important launching pad for expanding military operations in the area , the army said .
for damascus , the latest advance caps months of steady progress as the army and its allies turned from victories over rebels in western syria to push east against islamic state .
the eastwards march has on occasion brought them into conflict with u.s.-backed forces .
still , the rival campaigns have mostly stayed out of each other s way , and the u.s.-led coalition has stressed it is not seeking war with assad .
in a statement on sunday an alliance of iran-backed shi ite militias allied to damascus , including lebanon s hezbollah , accused washington of trying to hinder the advance to deir al-zor .
an official in the pro-assad alliance said senior iranian revolutionary guard corps commander qassem soleimani was closely monitoring fighting , a sign of iran s close military involvement .