if republicans were even moderately literate , they would know that the message of shakespeare s julius caesar is that assassinating leaders you don t like is just bad juju all around .
everyone ends up unhappy in the end .
enter donald trump jr , stage far-right.shortly after the guy who shot gop rep. steve scalise and four other people at baseball practice was revealed to be a green party person who voted for jill stein , regularly bashed hillary clinton , and who happened to volunteer for bernie sanders campaign , donald trump jr. hopped on twitter to blame a bunch of actors .
events like today are exactly why we took issue with ny elites glorifying the assassination of our president , the tweet reads .
it is , of course , referencing the shakespeare in the park production of julius caesar .
traditionally , the play has featured various world leaders , including abraham lincoln , in the role of caesar .
in 2013 , for example , the very same play with the very same script featured a man who looked strikingly similar to barack obama .
he was murdered , because the play s plot largely hinges on the historical fact that julius caesar was murdered .
here is a photo of the 2013 caesar : conservatives said nothing at the time because it was barack obama , but when donald trump the current president * was caesar , all hell broke loose because republicans , as a group , are f * cking morons.fortunately , the fine folks on twitter were kind enough to let him know that he s too stupid to know he s stupid : the point of the play is that political violence is wrong.that s like saying we shouldn t watch saving private ryan or it ll lead to war .
mikel jollett ( @ mikel_jollett ) june 14 , 2017sorry , i missed this controversy .
is donald trump jr. complaining about new york elites ?
rod johnson ( @ hauterodjohnson ) june 14 , 2017in fairness to fox , it s probably safe to assume shakespeare would have detested trump .
rod johnson ( @ hauterodjohnson ) june 14 , 2017i m afraid they are too ignorant of the plays meaning to see the correlation to modern times .
they only see the trump/cesar being stabbed ellen .
( @ ellenmd53 ) june 14 , 2017remember when sarah palin joked about having gabby giffords in her crosshairs ?
literally ?
then she was shot .
grifterivanka ( @ notimeforthis24 ) june 14 , 2017remember when sarah palin joked about having gabby giffords in her crosshairs ?
literally ?
then she was shot .
grifterivanka ( @ notimeforthis24 ) june 14 , 2017i didn t see anyone speaking up 5 years ago when the play was about assassinating obama impeach trump ( @ forgettrump2020 ) june 14 , 2017the moral of the play is that violence is wrong .
did you never read julius caesar ?
why are you politicizing the shooting in va ?
# alexandria janice fredericks ( @ janfred1903 ) june 14 , 2017you re both so fucking stupid .
it s shakespeare , you inbred cum stain .
where were you when they assassinated obama for 8 years ?
cx ( @ cxcope ) june 14 , 2017were these people shot by a piece of art or a gun , you fucking idiot ?
sean hartofilis ( @ beachpillows ) june 14 , 2017hey jr , your father on live tv actually rallied for his supporters to exercise their 2nd amendment rights against hilary clinton .
hypocrite !
darlakay ( @ darlaforestal ) june 14 , 2017pic.twitter.com/efiwlk8q15 donald j. trump ( @ akadonaldtrump ) june 14 , 2017you can t be serious .
raspyvoicedchick ( @ tammietoren1 ) june 14 , 2017no peep from you when they did the same to obama ?
camisheffield ( @ camianns ) june 14 , 2017 basically , if you haven t noticed , the gop is effectively fictional detective frank drebin lately : ( function ( d , s , id ) { var js , fjs = d.getelementsbytagname ( s ) [ 0 ] ; if ( d.getelementbyid ( id ) ) return ; js = d.createelement ( s ) ; js.id = id ; js.src = `` //connect.facebook.net/en_us/sdk.js # xfbml=1 & version=v2.3 '' ; fjs.parentnode.insertbefore ( js , fjs ) ; } ( document , 'script ' , 'facebook-jssdk ' ) ) ; this scene has never been funnier.posted by john prager on monday , june 12 , 2017while we could not reasonably expect anyone from the trump family aside from barron to present a reasonable response to anything the kid was the only person who showed any sign of dismay when one of trump s supporters shouted out that obama should be killed at his father s inauguration , after all it is still disappointing that don jr. , like all republicans , refuses to address the fact that nothing was done to prevent him from getting a gun.featured image via getty images ( win mcnamee ) /screengrab