as a side note , the last major appearance by the geriatric rolling stones band , was a free concert in havana , cuba .
the aging band appeared there only days after our commie sympathizer in chief made a high profile visit to cuba and was followed around by his friends in the mainstream media capturing his historic trip to the ballpark with the brutal dictator , raul castro.presumptive republican presidential nominee donald trump was warned wednesday to stop playing rolling stones music on the campaign trail .
the rolling stones have never given permission to the trump campaign to use their songs and have requested that they cease all use immediately , a spokesperson for the band said in a statement , according to time.donald trump delivered a fiery speech to celebrate an impressive primary victory tuesday in indiana .
while the real estate mogul and his entourage existed the stage , supporters were treated to the rolling stones song , start me up .
other trump events have featured the group s popular song you can t always get what you want .
several other artists have previously asked the trump campaign not to use their music at official events.last june , rocker neil young requested that then-newly-announced gop presidential candidate donald trump not play his song rockin in the free world at campaign events .
young , a devout liberal , did , however , give socialist democrat white house hopeful bernie sanders permission to play his songs.five months later , aerosmith frontman steven tyler threatened to sue trump if he did not stop playing the rock band s song dream on on the campaign trail.trump , a longtime rolling stones fan , is not held in high esteem among members of the british rock band .
can you imagine a president trump ?
rolling stones guitarist keith richards told vanity fair in march .
the worst nightmare .
but we can t say that , because it could happen .
this is one of the wonders of this country .
who would ve thought ronald reagan could be president ?
via : breitbart news