barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s secessionist leader faced increased pressure on monday to abandon plans to declare independence from spain , with france and germany expressing support for the country s unity .
the madrid government , grappling with spain s biggest political crisis since an attempted military coup in 1981 , said it would respond immediately to any such unilateral declaration .
a week after a vote on independence which the government did its utmost to thwart , the tension also took its toll on the business climate of spain s wealthiest region .
three more catalonia-based companies joined a business exodus from the region that has gathered steam since the oct. 1 referendum .
property group inmobiliaria colonial ( col.mc ) and infrastructure firm abertis ( abe.mc ) both decided to relocate their head offices to madrid and telecoms firm cellnex ( clnx.mc ) said it would do the same for as long as political uncertainty in catalonia continued .
publishing house grupo planeta said it would move its registered office from barcelona to madrid if the catalan parliament unilaterally declared independence .
spain s finance minister said it was the catalan government s fault the companies were leaving .
regional leader carles puigdemont is due to address the regional parliament on tuesday afternoon and madrid is worried it will vote for a unilateral declaration of independence .
catalan officials say people voted overwhelmingly for secession in the oct. 1 referendum , which had been declared illegal by the government .
some 900 people were injured on polling day when police fired rubber bullets and stormed crowds with truncheons to disrupt the voting .
the issue has deeply divided the northeastern region as well as the spanish nation .
hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated against breaking away in barcelona at the weekend .
they say the referendum did not show the true will of the region because those who want to stay in spain mainly boycotted it .
buoyed by the show of support , spanish deputy prime minister soraya saenz de santamar a said on monday : i m calling on the sensible people in the catalan government ... don t jump off the edge because you ll take the people with you .
if there is a unilateral declaration of independence there will be decisions made to restore law and democracy , she told cope radio station .
underlining conflicting pressures on puigdemont , the small , anti-capitalist popular unity candidacy ( cup ) party , which has an outsized influence on his government , said the outcome of the vote must be applied .
we don t want to hold up the declaration of the catalan republic , cup lawmaker benet salellas told a news conference .
european heavyweights germany and france weighed in against a split .
german chancellor angela merkel spoke to prime minister mariano rajoy on saturday , stressing her support for spain s unity but encouraging dialogue , her spokesman said .
france said it would not recognize catalonia if the region unilaterally declared independence .
if secession were recognized it would lead to catalonia s automatic exit from the european union , a french junior minister said .
this crisis needs to be resolved through dialogue at all levels of spanish politics , france s european affairs minister nathalie loiseau said .
the european union has shown no interest in an independent catalonia , despite an appeal by puigdemont for brussels to mediate in the crisis .
under catalonia s referendum law , deemed unconstitutional by madrid , a vote for independence in the assembly on tuesday would start a six-month process envisaging divorce talks with spain before regional elections and a final act of separation .
rajoy gained some political cover on monday for the so-called nuclear option of removing catalonia s government and calling new regional elections .
opposition socialist leader pedro sanchez said he would support the response of the rule of law in the face of any attempt to break social harmony , but stopped short of explicitly saying his party would back dissolving the regional parliament .
barcelona mayor ada colau advised puigdemont against proclaiming independence on the basis of the referendum results and she urged rajoy to rule out suspending catalonia s autonomy .
losing catalonia , which has its own language and culture , would deprive spain of a fifth of its economic output and more than a quarter of exports .
the crisis has reopened old divisions in a nation where the right-wing dictatorship of general francisco franco is a living memory easily revived by strong displays of nationalism .
a spokesman for the ruling people s party ( pp ) invoked the memory of former catalan leader lluis companys , who was arrested for declaring independence in 1934 and later executed .
we hope they don t declare anything tomorrow , because anyone doing so might end up like him 83 years ago , in prison , pablo casado told a news conference in madrid .
many moderate spaniards , including in catalonia , oppose a breakaway .
regional authorities say about 90 percent of votes in the referendum were for secession , but turnout was only 43 percent .
sunday 's anti-independence demonstration helped calm financial markets , as did credit rating agencies moody 's and dbrs which said they expected spain to remain united .
spanish borrowing costs fell to a one-week low and the main share index .ibex touched a week high .
puigdemont appeared resolute on sunday , saying the referendum law called for a declaration of independence in the event of a yes vote .
we will apply what the law says , he told tv3 .
catalonia s high court asked for more security , specifically drafting in the national police , who were called in to stop the referendum when the catalan police force failed to act .
puigdemont said on sunday he had not been in contact with the madrid government for some time because it refused to discuss independence .
what is happening in catalonia is real , whether they like it or not .
millions of people have voted , who want to decide .
we have to talk about this , he said .
rajoy has said repeatedly he will not talk to the catalan leaders unless they drop their plans to declare independence .