actor and immigration activist george clooney will move to los angeles with his wife amal and newborn twins ella and alexander due to security concerns at his england estate , according to a report.life & style magazine reported last week that the 56-year-old oscar-winner will move his newly-expanded family to his mansion in studio city , california , after deeming his 17th century mansion in sonning , england to be not sufficiently safe for them .
as soon as amal found out she was pregnant , he hired former secret service agents to assess all his properties and make recommendations for improvement , an unnamed clooney insider told the magazine .
his mansion in studio city [ calif. ] was deemed the most secure , and it s within minutes of an lapd station .
he doesn t feel like amal and the twins are safe living in the english countryside , the source told life & style .
he s determined to move his family to la , where he feels much more secure .
the report comes as england has been rocked by terrorist attacks in recent months , including the terrorist bombing of a concert by pop singer ariana grande in manchester in june that claimed the lives of 22 people , many of them young children.in may , british government officials disclosed that 23,000 known jihadi terrorists are believed to be residing in britain , far more than the 3,000 that had initially been reported.the move for the clooneys comes as both george and amal have been among the most vocal and active celebrity advocates for open borders and the free flow of refugees between countries.in february of last year , the actor met privately with german chancellor angela merkel , and praised the german leader s acceptance of refugees from syria and other countries .
the same month , clooney told sky news in an interview that the united states is not doing enough to help syrian refugees , and that 10,000 refugees per year was too low a figure to be admitting into the country.in an april 2016 interview with the bbc , amal clooney criticized then-republican presidential candidate donald trump s plans to build a security wall on the u.s.-mexico border , telling the outlet that the plan does not represent u.s. values .
george has also been an outspoken critic of trump , telling the guardian in a march 2016 interview that he believes trump to be a xenophobic fascist and an opportunist .
he previously described trump s immigration policy proposals as idiotic and intolerant .
breitbart in july , 2016 , it was reported that the clooney s were considering moving from their mansion in italy after a massive makeshift refugee camp was established in lake como , the popular and secluded celebrity hideaway where hollywood a-lister george clooney keeps a home.the migration of hundreds of people from arab nations , africa , and asia was triggered following the swiss government s decision to close its southern border with italy.now , waiting for smugglers to lead them into northern europe , groups of migrants are camping out in tattered tents around the lake como resort.flimsy dwellings , clothes and trash are scattered around the northern italian town s railway station , where dozens of new families and refugees have flocked.the migrant camp is , oddly enough , just steps away from the front door of immigration activists george and amal clooney s multi-million dollar lakeside mansion in lake como , according to the daily mail.the power couple has spent some time talking about the migrant crisis .
the clooneys met privately with german chancellor angela merkel in february and praised and thanked her for her leadership during the crisis.the clooneys have taken refuge from the hollywood spotlight in their summer home in italy for years .
last year , page six reported that clooney was mulling putting his lake como villa on the market due to ever-present and intrusive paparazzi.it is unclear if the recent deluge of refugees pouring into town will have an affect on clooney s decision to sell or not .
breitbart