it s actually quite refreshing to see someone on the right who is unafraid to take off the gloves .
his message to those who support amnesty is pretty clear and he s not backing down to political pressure from the left .
firing back at univision for its refusal to air his miss usa and miss universe pageants , the outspoken mogul and gop presidential candidate has barred anyone who works for univision from the greens of his miami golf course.in a letter friday to randy falco , trump advised the univision ceo that under no circumstances is any officer or representative of univision allowed to use trump national doral , miami its golf courses or any of its facilities .
trump also demanded that falco , whose company s miami office is next door to trump national doral , immediately stop work and close the gate which is being constructed between our respective properties .
trump gave falco one week to take care of that matter , or we will close it .
the letter was dispatched a day after univision declared it was canceling its coverage of the miss usa pageant july 12 on its unimas network as well as the miss universe pageant , which had been scheduled to air on the flagship univision channel next january , and was severing its business relationship with the miss universe organization , which produces both pageants .
the reason : what univision called insulting remarks about mexican immigrants recently voiced by trump , a part owner of miss universe.during his presidential campaign kickoff speech last week , trump had portrayed immigrants from mexico as bringing drugs , they re bringing crime , they re rapists , and some , i assume , are good people .
he also called for building a wall along the southern border of the u.s .
the remarks drew condemnation from the mexican government as biased and absurd , and sparked univision s announcement.trump , who has said his criticism was directed against u.s. policymakers , not the mexican people or its government , stated thursday that univision would be defaulting on an ironclad contract if it doesn t air the pageants .
he pledged to take legal action against the company.he also accused the new york-based univision of having ties to mexico that led the network to submit to pressure from mexican leaders to punish him for pro-u.s. positions he expresses as a presidential candidate .
they don t want me saying that mexico is killing the united states in trade and killing the united states at the border , trump had said.in a p.s .
to his letter , which was addressed to univision s manhattan headquarters , trump continued on that track .
please congratulate your mexican government officials for having made such outstanding trade deals with the united states , he wrote falco .
however , inform them that should i become president , those days are over .
we are bringing jobs back to the u.s. also , a meaningful border will be immediately created , not the laughingstock that currently exists .
the letter was signed , sincerely , donald j. trump .
when asked for comment on trump s letter , univision seemed to be treating it as par for the course.a memo to univision management on thursday directed that , as part of the company s decision to cut ties with miss universe , employees should not stay at trump properties while on company business or hold events/activities there .