ulaanbaatar ( reuters ) - mongolia s parliament voted to oust prime minister jargaltulga erdenebat , its website said late on thursday , after his ruling mongolian people s party ( mpp ) was defeated in a july presidential election .
no prime minister of mongolia , a thinly populated and mineral-rich country sandwiched between russia and china , has completed a four-year term since 2004 .
of 73 members of parliament attending the vote , 42 were in favor of erdenebat s removal .
the outgoing prime minister noted that the country had seen 13 governments in the last 25 years .
the resignation of a government in a democratic parliament is a normal occurrence , but it can be harmful if a good thing goes beyond its norms , erdenebat said in a statement on parliament s website .
a former soviet satellite , mongolia transitioned to a parliamentary democracy in 1990 .
i believe that dismissing government is a mistake that hinders the development of the country , rather than a positive mechanism of accountability , erdenebat said .
the mpp gained power in mid-2016 in elections in which it won 65 of parliament s 76 seats .
it is expected to hold a party congress to choose new leadership , said dale choi , an analyst and head of altan bumba financial group in ulaanbaatar .
i don t think it means instability for the government , he said .
i think it means internal party politics .
it s clearing the party s decks after a monumental , unexpected presidential loss .
last month , some 30 members of the parliament , or state ikh khural , signed a petition calling for erdenebat s resignation in the aftermath of the presidential vote , which was won by populist former martial arts star and businessman khaltmaa battulga of the opposition democratic party .
the defeat was seen as a rejection of the mpp government s austerity policies and a reaction to allegations of corruption .
in mongolia s parliamentary democracy , the prime minister is the leader of the government , and the president has limited powers including the ability to veto legislation and to propose laws to parliament .
higher coal prices this year have helped the resource-dependent economy gain momentum .
but earlier this year , a slump in foreign investment and declining commodity prices forced mongolia to agree to a $ 5.5 billion economic bailout led by the international monetary fund , to relieve fiscal strains and try to restore investor confidence .