they shot him in the head with a 45 .
they found out from the coroner that he was on his back ( like this ) with his hands up and they shot him through his hands and through his head .
now that s the original hands up don t shoot , cuz that really happened .
and mr. trump is willing to go out and sacrifice , he doesn t need money , he doesn t need power , he s powerful already .
he has a name , he has what he needs , but he loves america .
he loves america .
he wants to make it good again .
jamiel shaw sr. , the father of a high school student killed by an undocumented immigrant , will introduce donald trump on saturday at a rally in phoenix , trump campaign officials tell cnn.shaw s son , a high school football star , was shot and killed in los angeles in 2008 by a gang member born in mexico .
on friday , trump met in los angeles with shaw and other family members of victims of crimes perpetrated by undocumented immigrants .
he then gave a lengthy press conference in which he consistently railed against illegal immigration.shaw said friday that trump s recent comments about illegal immigration resonated deeply with him .
he s speaking for the dead .
he s speaking for my son , he said .
he s speaking for the people who can t speak for themselves that demand that somebody do something .
at friday s press conference , trump claimed mexico was sending its criminals to the united states .
the fact that they are sending criminals and prisoners into our country and there are people stupid enough to put them in jails or let them roam the street , which is even worse , i have to respect ( mexico ) for it , trump said .
i don t know it you know , ( former cuban leader fidel ) castro , many years ago , opened up his prisons and sent his prisoners to the united states , he continued .
in a much more sophisticated manner , mexico is doing the same thing .
here is jamiel shaw sr. s introduction today : trump , who announced his white house campaign bid last month , sparked national outrage by saying that some people crossing the border into the united states from mexico were rapists and criminals .
a slew of corporations , including macy s , nbc and espn , responded to his inflammatory remarks by severing business ties with the real estate magnate.despite the backlash , trump has doubled down on his rhetoric.and the support that he is receiving from shaw and others demonstrates that the businessman s message is appealing to some * ( many ) voters who view illegal immigration as a serious problem .
* edit by 100 % fed up ! via : cnn