the politics of muslim cemeteries have sprung up recently in dudley , mass .
( pop .
: 11,390 ) ; walpole , mass .
( pop .
: 24,070 ) ; farmington , minnesota ( pop .
: 21,086 ) ; carlisle , pennsylvania ( pop .
: 18,916 ) ; and farmersville , texas ( pop .
: 3,301 ) , reports the associated press.apr 26 , 2016not only is it muslim cemeteries that are being forced upon us , it s also mosques .
with the help of our department of justice , towns are being threatened if they don t cave to the construction of mega mosques : over the past decade , the total number of mosques in the us has continued to grow at a tremendous rate .
as part of this survey , a count of all mosques in the us was conducted and 2,106 mosques were identified .
a total of 1,209 mosques were counted in 2000 , and 962 mosques were counted in 1994.islam is set to surpass christianity as the most popular religion in the world in no time flat : how many muslims in the world ?
islam set to overtake christianity as most popular religion , while us population also rapidly growingislam is the fastest growing religion in the world and will overtake christianity as the most popular before the end of this century , according to an analysis of religious surveys published tuesday by the pew research center.with 1.6 billion , muslims made up 23 percent of the world s population , according to a 2010 pew estimate .
that figure was still some way short of the 2.2 billion christians which comprised 31 percent of the population.however , by 2050 there could be near parity between the numbers of adherents of the two religions for the first time in history .
the reasons for this rapid growth are thought to be the greater number of children muslims have compared to other religious groups and the comparatively young age of muslims.proposed 34-acre muslim cemetery : jack hawkins , a farmersville landowner , said he was strongly opposed to the cemetery and the muslim religion in general .
if i had my way , i would outlaw it in america .
and i would tear down every mosque that was in this country .
that s the way i feel about it , hawkins said .
resident said that one of their main concern was the way in which muslims inter their dead ( in shrouds with no caskets in the ground ) .
pastor david meeks , of the bethlehem baptist church , was one of the most vocal opponents in 2015 opposition he said has only grown stronger .
from what i hear , from my perspective , is that people are really more concerned than before , meeks said .
there have been terrible , drastic things happen in the world through radical islamic terrorism , and any thought of that coming to our community just brings and harbors anxiousness , you know , that we re concerned with .
read more : nbcdfw