who says president trump isn t moving on his agenda ?
neil gorsuch became the 113th justice of the supreme court today !
be happy america !
our president chose a perfect candidate to replace justic scalia.now if we can just get ruth to step down that would be great !
she s hanging on for dear life because she knows trump will pick someone who s not a liberal hack .
it s puzzling that she even made it on the court because of her very liberal views !
she s an outspoken critic of president trump and has recently spoken out on his immigration policy.gorsuch took the constitutional oath in a private ceremony , administered by chief justice john roberts in the supreme court s justice s conference room .
he was accompanied by his wife louise , who held the bible , and his two daughters .
that oath will be followed by a public ceremony at the white house where justice anthony kennedy gorsuch s former boss will administer the judicial oath.gorsuch takes the seat of the late justice antonin scalia , who died in february last year , and whom gorsuch has been compared favorably to by conservatives hopeful for another originalist on the court.gorsuch is likely to cast a deciding vote in a number of high-profile cases , which in part explains the terse and partisan hearing the 49-year-old faced .
the high stakes led republicans to trigger the nuclear option last week to kill the 60-vote filibuster threshold for supreme court nominees.justice anthony kennedy , gorsuch s former boss , administered the judicial oath in the rose garden with president donald trump present .
fox news continued : in his remarks , gorsuch thanked his family and the american people for entrusting him with such an important job : to the american people , i am humbled by the trust placed in me today , gorsuch said after taking the oath .
i will never forget to whom much is given to much will be expected , and i promise you that i will do all my powers permit to be a faithful servant of the constitution and laws of this great nation .