berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel on monday dismissed the idea that her christian democrats ( cdu ) defeat in a regional election had made her already tricky job of forming a three-way national coalition even harder .
it was sufficiently hard enough anyway , she said .
still reeling from their worst national result since 1949 in september s national election , merkel s conservatives slumped to 33.6 percent in the northern state of lower saxony , their poorest showing in the rich agricultural province in nearly six decades .
i don t see the lower saxony election result as weakening us in this ( coalition ) task , merkel said , adding that regional issues had played a big role in the campaign there .
the social democrats ( spd ) won the vote in lower saxony - home to carmaker volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) , which is enmeshed in a diesel emissions scandal - with 36.9 percent , despite lagging far behind the conservatives when campaigning began in august .
education was one of the key campaign topics .
three weeks after her poor national showing , merkel is about to begin what look set to be thorny coalition discussions with the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens on forming a jamaica alliance - so named because the parties colors correspond with those of the jamaican flag .
merkel said her conservative bloc was heading into the talks knowing it was the strongest of the three groups , while acknowledging negotiations would be challenging .
we ll have sufficient conflicts anyway .
no one is under any illusions about that , merkel said .
policy areas over which the three parties are expected to clash include migration , climate and the euro zone .
greens co-leader simone peter said the talks would be tough due to the parties vastly diverging programs , adding : we must now pull ourselves together and see if coalition negotiations are possible or not .
the conservatives will meet the fdp and greens separately on wednesday and then hold three-way discussions on friday .
merkel said she expected the exploratory talks - an initial stage during which parties decide whether to go ahead with full-blown coalition negotiations - to last several weeks because the jamaica alliance , untested at the national level , was an extraordinary political constellation .
horst seehofer , head of the christian social union ( csu ) - the cdu s bavarian sister party - said the time before christmas needed to be used to form a stable government but his colleague alexander dobrindt was skeptical : whether it succeeds , whether a government is formed , is yet to be seen , he said .
carsten nickel , deputy research director at teneo intelligence , said the weak cdu result would particularly worry the csu , which faces a regional election next year .
the csu will fear that lower saxony demonstrates that the popular backlash against merkel s choices in the 2015 migration crisis is not yet over , he said , referring to her decision to operate an open-borders policy that allowed more than a million migrants to enter germany .
after the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) took almost a million voters from the conservative bloc in september s national election , the sister conservative parties put a long-running internal dispute to bed by agreeing to limit numbers of migrants coming to germany .