recently , donald trump shocked even his critics by openly offering to destroy a texas state senator for a sheriff who didn t like his opposition to the corrupt practice of civil asset forfeiture that s when police can take your stuff regardless of whether or not you have been convicted of a crime and you often have to prove your possessions innocent to get them back.after rockwall county , texas , sheriff harold eavenson , told trump about a lawmaker who had proposed asset forfeiture legislation he thinks would aid drug cartels , trump straight-up offered to destroy the guy : who is the state senator ?
do you want to give his name ?
we ll destroy his career .
the room erupted in nervous laughter , but eavenson refused to name names .
i m not into assassinating his character , he said.sheriff tells trump that state senator is doing something he does n't liketrump : `` do you want to give his name ?
we 'll destroy his career . ''
pic.twitter.com/75y3t9zc54 steve kopack ( @ stevekopack ) february 7 , 2017currently , the only lawmaker in texas to propose eliminating the corrupt practice is senator konni burton a woman and a conservative though others , republicans don huffines and bob hall , are on record as opposing asset forfeiture .
ultimately , it appears that trump s sheriff was lying to him.whether or not trump s buddy was lying , one state senator from pennsylvania who also opposes the practice has something to say to trump : bring it .
hey @ realdonaldtrump i oppose civil asset forfeiture too !
democratic senator daylin leach wrote on tuesday .
why don t you try to destroy my career you fascist , loofa-faced , shit-gibbon !
hey @ realdonaldtrump i oppose civil asset forfeiture too !
why do n't you try to destroy my career you fascist , loofa-faced , shit-gibbon !
daylin leach ( @ daylinleach ) february 7 , 2017leach was flooded with praise following his challenge to the orange one and he just ate it up : @ inovog61 @ realdonaldtrump i do indeed rock .
daylin leach ( @ daylinleach ) february 8 , 2017 @ itsangelbitchz @ realdonaldtrump lol > be careful what you wish for daylin leach ( @ daylinleach ) february 8 , 2017 @ ndlevinson @ maddow @ tuesdaystoomey i 'm open to offers .
but i 'll need only green m & ms in my dressing room .
daylin leach ( @ daylinleach ) february 8 , 2017 @ bgerh well , i think its fair to say my fan-worship does n't go overboard .
daylin leach ( @ daylinleach ) february 7 , 2017 @ ckk0703 @ realdonaldtrump it 's like a cockwomble , only less appealing .
daylin leach ( @ daylinleach ) february 9 , 2017 @ daylinleach @ realdonaldtrump i humbly bow to you sir .
phaedra klein ( @ phaedraklein ) february 9 , 2017 @ daylinleach @ realdonaldtrump i just fell in love with daylin leach .
thank you for the laughs and the spine .
laurel mcnair ( @ yamdothprotest ) february 9 , 2017konni burton also spoke out against trump and his sheriff friend. , pointing out that she didn t even know who the hell the latter was until he opened his mouth and appeared to issue a veiled attack against her .
i have never met with sheriff eavenson , nor even heard of him before yesterday .
however , i take exception to his comments on asset forfeiture reform , she said in a statement , adding that she will not be discouraged nor deterred by the attack.no matter who trump offered to destroy , even if he was a figment of eavenson s imagination , it is clear that we have an unstable , vindictive , tangerine menace in the white house one that needs to be removed by any legal means available as soon as possible.featured image via screengrab