the left woke up in a fury after they discovered president trump retweeted 3 videos showing disgusting hate crimes committed against europeans by muslims .
was the president trying to prove his case about how the mass muslim migration into europe is destroying their cultures and making the citizens unsafe ?
president trump didn t include any commentary with his retweets , he simply retweeted the videos .
should president trump have retweeted these videos ?
we d love to hear your thoughts in the comment section below.on wednesday morning , president trump retweeted videos posted by a british nationalist , which showed muslims committing crimes.trump retweeted content posted by jayda fransen , the deputy leader of britain first , a far-right group that stands against theislamisation of the united kingdom.the first video purportedly shows a muslim migrant beating up a dutch boy on crutches.video : muslim migrant beats up dutch boy on crutches !
pic.twitter.com/11lgbffjdq jayda fransen ( @ jaydabf ) november 28 , 2017twitter responded to the video with the boy on crutches by saying that the muslim migrant who beat up the boy on crutches was arrested the next day and was actually a dutch citizen .
we have checked both dutch ( link and link ) websites who claim that the boy was neither a muslim or a migrant .
we couldn t verify if either one of the sites we checked are legitimate sources of news.the fact that the president retweeted this bigot is disgusting .
brian krassenstein ( @ krassenstein ) november 29 , 2017according to dutch media , the culprit was n't a muslim .
also not a migrant .
but a 16-year old dutch boy from town of edam-volendam.he was arrested on may 13th 2017 , one day after the incident happened .
edna sullivan ( @ sumtomgoingon ) november 29 , 2017 the second video shows a muslim man speaking to the camera and then bashing a statue of virgin mary on the ground , shattering hervideo : muslim destroys a statue of virgin mary !
pic.twitter.com/qhkrfqrtjv jayda fransen ( @ jaydabf ) november 29 , 2017thats such a good point pic.twitter.com/vff8ekppy6 blablaa ( @ ceethehit ) november 29 , 2017the third video president trump retweeted shows an islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death !
video : islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death !
pic.twitter.com/xxtlxnnsip jayda fransen ( @ jaydabf ) november 29 , 2017not everyone disagreed with president trump s retweets .
many applauded him for bringing these videos to the attention of the world : europe is lost .
this is the new setting of europe .
it 's so sad .
you can thank angela merkel .
joey mannarino ( @ realjmannarino ) november 29 , 2017it 's already too late for the uk and much of europe , but hopefully it can be at least managed .
so much danger .
joey mannarino ( @ realjmannarino ) november 29 , 2017last year , fransen was found guilty of religiously aggravated harassment after accosting a muslim woman.the charge stemmed from a january 2016 incident in which fransen , wearing a political uniform and during a so-called christian patrol , accosted a muslim woman named sumayyah sharpe in luton , england .
daily mail