johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s high court ruled on friday that president jacob zuma s appointment of a state prosecutor to decide whether to reinstate corruption charges against him was not valid and should be set aside immediately .
the court also ruled that zuma should not make a new appointment and that deputy president cyril ramaphosa should appoint a new public prosecutor within 60 days .
the ruling is a stinging rebuke for zuma , who is due to step down in 2019 after more than a decade in power .
zuma s office said he would appeal the decision .
the national prosecuting authority ( npa ) , whose head prosecutor shaun abrahams was removed from his post by the high court ruling , also said it would appeal .
the rand was buoyed by the court ruling , with analysts saying markets saw zuma s influence curtailed .
judge president dunstan mlambo said at the pretoria high court the appointment of abrahams as the national director of public prosecutions was invalid and set aside .
in his ruling , mlambo said : in our view , president zuma would be clearly conflicted in having to appoint a national director of public prosecutions , given the background ... and particularly the ever present specter of the many criminal charges against him that have not gone away .
the charges against zuma relate to a 30 billion rand ( $ 2 billion ) government arms deal arranged in the late 1990s and have amplified calls for zuma to step down before his term as president ends in 2019 .
in october the supreme court of appeal upheld an earlier decision by a lower court that the nearly 800 corruption charges filed against zuma before he became president be reinstated .
it then fell to abrahams , appointed by zuma as chief state prosecutor in 2015 , to decide whether or not the npa would pursue a case against zuma .
abrahams gave zuma until the end of november to make representations to prevent the charges being brought against him .
abrahams has not commented on whether zuma presented any submissions of what decision he has taken on the matter .
the case in the pretoria high court had been brought by a trio of civil society organizations seeking an order declaring the previous state prosecutor s removal was invalid .
zuma has faced a string of corruption allegations during his time in office , many of them over leaked emails that suggest his friends the gupta family may have used their influence to secure lucrative state contracts for their companies .
zuma and the guptas deny wrongdoing .
the african national congress ( anc ) , which is set to elect zuma s successor next week , said it would allow the parties involved to reflect on the judgment and its implications as well as decide whether to appeal or not .