( video above ) state department spokesperson harf won t comment on the cheryl mills block of sensitive documents about hillary clintonhillary s chief of staff could be part of the key to the truth of so much corruption .
cheryl mills ran interference the night benghazi broke .
hillary s claim that an anti-islam video , created benghazi , was promoted by mills .
benghazi information was compromised by ms. mills but it would be asking too much to expect her to come clean on it .
truth just isn t in the cards for any of these lowlifes.washington when hillary clinton was secretary of state , her staff scrutinized politically sensitive documents requested under public-records law and sometimes blocked their release , according to people with direct knowledge of the activities.in one instance , her chief of staff , cheryl mills , told state department records specialists she wanted to see all documents requested on the controversial keystone xl pipeline , and later demanded that some be held back.in another case , ms. mills s staff negotiated with the records specialists over the release of documents about former president bill clinton s speaking engagements also holding some back.the records requests came under the freedom of information act , or foia , the public s main tool to get information from the government .
decisions on what to release belong with each agency s foia staff , say experts on the law , to guard against the withholding of documents for political or other inappropriate reasons.questions about the transparency of mrs. clinton s state department tenure have been bubbling ever since it was revealed that she exclusively used a private email account to conduct her work as secretary .
the existence of that private system , which is being investigated by a house special committee probing the 2012 attack on a u.s. diplomatic outpost in benghazi , libya , meant the department didn t have access to her emails when public requests to see them came in.read more : wsj