frankfurt ( reuters ) - german industry leaders want a shift toward digital services to be a priority as the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) appear set to enter coalition talks with angela merkel s conservatives and the greens .
the fdp , which returned from the german political wilderness with 10.7 percent of the vote in sunday s election , promise to cut taxes and raise investment in infrastructure , partly funded by privatizations .
investing in high-speed telecoms networks and automation would boost economic activity and global competitiveness and has long been a key demand of germany s export-led manufacturers although some workers fear it risks job losses .
investments in education and digital infrastructure are urgently needed , werner baumann , chief executive of drugmaker bayer ( baygn.de ) , said in an emailed statement .
joe kaeser , chief executive of industrial group siemens ( siegn.de ) agreed , but warned of marginalizing workers and pushing them into the arms of the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , the first far-right party to enter the german parliament in more than half a century .
we are an industrial nation and must shape the fourth industrial revolution and design it in a socially inclusive way - so that as many people profit from its as possible , he said .
economists see such investments as a way to combat the effects of an ageing population and to boost stalling productivity gains , factors that are casting a shadow over growth prospects in the medium term in europe s largest economy .
domestically , a focus on digitalisation is one opportunity to counteract these structural headwinds , and re-accelerate productivity growth , morgan stanley economist elga bartsch wrote in a note .
german business confidence deteriorated unexpectedly in the weeks before sunday s federal election , suggesting that a consumption-led upswing could lose momentum in coming months .
thilo brodtmann , executive director of powerful engineering lobby vdma , said on monday : we need a clear signal for a digital breakthrough , for education and research , innovation-friendly tax policies and above all a priority for flexibility and good ideas .
the vdma represents large manufacturers such as engineering group siemens , robot maker kuka ( ku2g.de ) or machine-tool maker dmg mori ( gilg.de ) as well as a host of smaller firms banking on digitization to boost productivity .
and a host of communications firms including vodafone ( vod.l ) , liberty global ( lbtya.o ) and united internet ( utdi.de ) stand ready to take advantage of funds that may be made available to expand rural broadband , for example through the further privatization of incumbent deutsche telekom ( dtegn.de ) .
but ubs economist felix huefner said he doubted that any radical stimulus measures would be taken soon , given that the german economy is expected to grow at its strongest pace in six years this year .
even if digitalization may be a key priority for merkel , we don t expect deep reforms ... given the lack of pressure in a very benign economic environment , he wrote in a note .