reckless hillary couldn t have cared less about the seriousness of exposing america s top-secret intel to the world by using an unsecured email server .
why would any american want to put her in charge of our troops ?
why would any voter trust her with our national security .
the job of commander in chief is too important to leave to a self-serving grifter simply because she is equipped with female genitalia .
just ask the family of shahram amiri a friend of the us who paid the ultimate price for providing america with iran s nuclear weapons secrets while hillary was our crooked secretary of state hillary clinton used her private email server to discuss details of the iranian nuclear scientist who was executed for giving information to the cia.shahram amiri , who was hanged for revealing secrets to the enemy , was in the us and allegedly informing on tehran s extensive nuclear program during the democrat s controversial reign as secretary of state.at the time she stressed researcher had been there of his own free will and was described as our friend in correspondences .
but he maintained he had been kidnapped by intelligence agents .
emails sent by clinton s advisers point to the scandal involving amiri suggesting it was a diplomatic , psychological issue , but not a legal one .one aide also warned he would lead to problematic news stories richard morningstar , a former state department special envoy for eurasian energy wrote to clinton : we should recognize his concerns and frame it in terms of a misunderstanding with no malevolent intent and that we will make sure there is no recurrence .
our friend has to be given a way out .
our person won t be able to do anything anyway .
if he has to leave so be it .
senior adviser jake sullivan sent another email about amiri on july 12 , 2010.it appears he is referring to the scientist just hours before he showed up at the iranian interests section of the pakistani embassy in washington d.c. , demanding he be sent home.he said : the gentleman has apparently gone to his country s interests section because he is unhappy with how much time it has taken to facilitate his departure .
this could lead to problematic news stories in the next 24 hours .
amiri went missing in 2009 after leaving for a pilgrimage to mecca , but appeared in a video apparently recorded in the u.s. in which he claimed to have been put under pressure to reveal sensitive information to the intelligence agency.in interviews he has claimed he was drugged , put on a plane , and then kept under psychological pressure at an undisclosed location in the u.s.there he was asked to hand over classified documents , but he claims he never did as he didn t want to betray his country.he then walked into the iranian interests section at the pakistani embassy in washington and demanded to be sent home.he came back to a hero s welcome and insisted he was a simple researcher .amiri worked for a university affiliated with tehran s extensive nuclear program.he is said to have had an in-depth knowledge of iran s nuclear program and was kept at a secret location after returning to the country.according to cbs , he told officials in interviews he was being held against his will by saudi and u.s. spies.but american officials said he was set to receive millions for informing.amiri s mother told the bbc that his body had been sent to her with rope marks around his neck.on sunday , an iranian judicial spokesman confirmed the execution had taken place.iran confirms execution of iranian nuclear scientisthe told the mizan online news site : shahram amiri was hanged for revealing the country s top secrets to the enemy ( us ) .
in another recording filmed when he was missing , the scientist suggested he had fled from the usa , where he had been held against his will.but us officials said they paid amiri some $ 5 million to defect and provide significant information about iran s atomic program .
amiri later fled the u.s. without the money.iranian officials previously touted amiri s claim he had been abducted by u.s. agents while on a pilgrimage to holy sites in saudi arabia.they welcomed him home in 2010 as a hero.but his family confirmed to the bbc he had been given a lengthy jail sentence after returning to the middle east.the state department declined to comment on amiri s execution.via : daily mail