donald trump , the pathetic man who has yet to apologize for all the hateful and divisive things he said throughout his campaign , is demanding an apology from the media.seriously.trump has been lashing out at the media and the intelligence community all weekend over a dossier revealing that he paid prostitutes to pee on the bed in the presidential suite of the ritz carlton hotel in moscow , and also reveals that his campaign colluded with russia to win the election.he whined about the media during his first press conference in six months , resorting to calling cnn and buzzfeed fake news for running the story.now trump is crowing because legendary reporter bob woodward , who shall now be known as a sell-out , agreed with him that the dossier should never have been reported on , which would have hidden information from the american people .
his demand for an apology was written in all caps , even though he has failed to apologize for any of the insults and offensive statements he said during his campaign.thank you to bob woodward who said , that is a garbage document it never should have been presented trump s right to be upset ( angry ) donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 15 , 2017about that those intelligence chiefs made a mistake here , & when people make mistakes , they should apologize .
media should also apologize donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 15 , 2017and because trump is being a hypocrite when it comes to apologies , twitter told him to go to hell .
@ realdonaldtrump we are sorry you are such a douche .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) january 15 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump pic.twitter.com/rlgfoqsvr2 notabillionaire ( @ billionairesno ) january 15 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump you must stop fixating on the pee story .
the more you bring up the pee story the more people will think about it , donald .
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) january 15 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump and if you continue to vilify the media , it s very unlikely they ll apologize to you about anything , dear .
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) january 15 , 2017 @ bessbell @ realdonaldtrump maybe it s me , but he seems frustrated .
almost as if he is guilty of something ?
tara ( @ tgruka ) january 15 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump stop asking people to apologize you oversensitive man-child .
also stop paying people to piss on each other .
tj fixman ( @ tjfixman ) january 15 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump msm : hillary used private email servers djt : lock her up !
msm : trump may be feeding intelligence to russia djt : msm lies !
mike denison ( @ mikd33 ) january 15 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump my god , do you ever get tired of hearing yourself whine ?
give it a rest for once in your life .
charles gaba ( @ charles_gaba ) january 15 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump couldn t agree more sir .
we re waiting .
pic.twitter.com/gmewlfpc6d mike polk jr. ( @ mikepolkjr ) january 15 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump like you apologized to jeb s wife or to obama for that birther bullshit , or to the women who you called pigs , or to the .
pic.twitter.com/ykbdm2w1jd kristina wong ( @ mskristinawong ) january 15 , 2017donald trump really needs to stop whining and making demands on twitter .
he is five days away from taking over the white house .
it s time for him to grow up and start acting like an adult instead of the petulant child he has been his entire life.featured image by jeff j mitchell via getty images