( reuters ) - myanmar stands accused by rights groups of ethnic cleansing and human rights violations after violence broke out in the northwestern state of rakhine , triggering an exodus of about 400,000 rohingya muslims to southern bangladesh .
at least 400 people have been killed , and thousands of homes and villages have been torched , since the military launched a counteroffensive against rohingya insurgents in late august .
myanmar does not recognize the roughly 1.1 million rohingyas as citizens , leaving them effectively stateless .
the following are questions and answers on the violence : the military says it is protecting myanmar against attacks by the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , which it has labeled a terrorist group and accuses of killings and destruction in rakhine state .
human rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and ethnic rakhine buddhist vigilantes have mounted a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the rohingya .
rights groups say an independent investigation is required to determine possible abuses or violations by various parties .
yes , according to united nations officials and rights groups .
top u.n. officials have said the violence in myanmar is a case of textbook ethnic cleansing .
the u.n. has in the past defined ethnic cleansing as rendering an area ethnically homogeneous by using force or intimidation to remove persons of given groups from the area .
ethnic cleansing is not recognized as a separate crime under international law .
but allegations of ethnic cleansing as part of wider , systematic human rights violations have been heard in international courts against individuals - including former bosnian serb leader radovan karadzic , who was convicted of genocide .
phil robertson , deputy director for asia at human rights watch ( hrw ) , said initial investigations in myanmar were indicative of an ethnic cleansing campaign .
when an army is burning people out of their villages all over northern rakhine state and using violence against civilians , it results in the kind of incredible refugee flows we re seeing , he added .
myanmar has denied allegations of ethnic cleansing .
are we seeing genocide , war crimes , crimes against humanity ?
turkish president tayyip erdogan has said the killing of hundreds of rohingya amounted to genocide , but rights groups have so far stayed away from these labels , because all three categories are clearly defined and covered in international law .
for the ongoing violence to be considered war crimes , the parties involved would have to be at war .
currently , experts say , myanmar is not technically at war because it only has one party - the military - that is organized enough to carry out intensive fighting operations .
we have not yet been able to determine whether a state of war is present in rakhine state , said hrw s robertson .
crimes against humanity and genocide could be taking place even in the absence of war , but , under u.n. definitions , there would need to be proof of other conditions such as broader , systematic attacks against the rohingyas .
human rights groups have accused myanmar of laying anti-personnel mines along the border with bangladesh to prevent rohingya refugees from returning to rakhine state .
because the crisis is not currently defined as a war , this can not be considered a war crime , according to experts .
however it would violate other international human rights laws , even though myanmar is not party to the 1997 mine ban treaty .
for nations that are not parties to the treaty , the use of anti-personnel mines violates customary international law , because the weapons are inherently indiscriminate and cause disproportionate long-term harm to civilians , said richard weir , a legal expert at hrw .
a myanmar military source told reuters that landmines were laid along the border in the 1990s to prevent trespassing and the military had since tried to remove them , but that none had been planted recently .
in international law , an individual can be held criminally responsible for when a state or military commits war crimes or crimes against humanity .
rights groups have called for an independent investigation of abuses by all parties , including arsa .
many believe the government and the military should be held responsible .
myanmar is systematically violating the rights of the rohingya ... and both the government and the military now need to suffer serious consequences for this , said hrw s robertson .
this depends on the findings of an independent investigation , if the myanmar government allows one to take place , experts say .
rights groups have called for the u.n. security council to also reprimand myanmar in other ways , for instance , by imposing sanctions such as an arms embargo .
they have also urged countries , including the united states and australia , to suspend bilateral military ties .
the 1991 nobel peace prize winner has faced widespread international criticism for not doing enough to protect the rohingya community .
suu kyi has no direct control over the military , which remains powerful under myanmar s army-written constitution .
but she is myanmar s foreign minister and de facto civilian leader and has defended the military operation .
it s premature to speculate , said robertson , adding that individual responsibility should be based on an impartial investigation .
the international criminal court ( icc ) , based in the hague , netherlands , has the jurisdiction to prosecute crimes of genocide , war crimes , and crimes against humanity .
myanmar is among the countries , which also include the united states and china , that are not signatory to the treaty that created the icc , so it is not obligated to cooperate .
but if the u.n. security council were to refer a case to the court then myanmar , being a member of the u.n. , would be subject to its jurisdiction .
ad hoc tribunals and commissions have been set up in the past to hear cases of mass human rights violations .
for instance , the united nations established the international criminal tribunals for yugoslavia and rwanda to deal with crimes that took place there .
rights groups say they are protected by various u.n. human rights treaties , primarily the universal declaration of human rights , which myanmar voted for in 1948 .
the document includes provisions for the right to life and right to a nationality - particularly relevant to the rohingyas , who are effectively stateless .
( story amends headline . )