hillary s all about protecting women who are victims of rape unless of course her husband is the accused rapist in her first extensive interview in over a decade , the nurse who found juanita broaddrick in her hotel room immediately after bill clinton allegedly raped broaddrick recounted what she says she witnessed in that room 38 years ago .
she was crying , recalled norma rogers , a nurse who worked for broaddrick , who at the time was a nursing home administrator volunteering for then-arkansas attorney general bill clinton s 1978 gubernatorial bid .
and the thing i think i remember most is that her mouth was all swollen up .
it was cut .
her pantyhose were all ripped , rogers stated in dramatic , lengthy new testimony.rogers drove broaddrick back home after the incident .
this week , she recounted that emotional drive .
i think we stopped at least twice to get ice .
i would go up and get fresh ice and put it on her mouth because she was trying to keep her face from bruising and looking like something bad had happened to her , you know .
it was just crazy .
the whole situation was just crazy .
rogers was speaking in a lengthy interview on this reporter s talk radio program , aaron klein investigative radio , broadcast on new york s am 970 the answer and newstalk 990 am in philadelphia.events leading to incidentrogers took listeners back to the spring of 1978 when she traveled to little rock for an industry convention along with her nursing home boss , broaddrick .
the two shared a room at the city s camelot hotel.in an interview with me in november , broaddrick herself provided background on her personal encounters with clinton leading up to that infamous day.broaddrick said clinton previously singled her out during a campaign stop at her nursing home .
he would just sort of insinuate , you know when you are in little rock let s get together .
let s talk about the industry .
let s talk about the needs of the nursing homes and i was very excited about that .
broaddrick said she finally took clinton up on that offer when she traveled to little rock with rogers for the convention.broaddrick says she phoned clinton s campaign headquarters to inform him of her arrival and was told by a receptionist that clinton had left instructions for her to reach him at his private apartment .
i called his apartment and he answered , broaddrick recounted during our november interview .
and he said , well , why don t we meet in the camelot hotel coffee room and we can get together there and talk .
and i said that would be fine .
clinton then changed the meeting location from the hotel coffee shop to broaddrick s room .
a time later and i m not sure how long it was , he called my room , which he said he would do when he got to the coffee shop .
and he said , there are too many people down here .
it s too crowded .
there s reporters and can we just meet in your room ?
and it sort of took me back a little bit , aaron , she said of clinton s request .
but i did say , okay , i ll order coffee to the room , which i did and that s when things sort of got out of hand .
and it was very unexpected .
it was , you might even say , brutal .
with the biting of my lip .
in the new interview , rogers confirmed broaddrick s version of events : i just know when i left that morning it was my understanding that she was going to be meeting with mr. clinton downstairs in the coffee shop for a meeting that they had planned ahead of time to discuss nursing home issues.bloody lip .
ripped pantyhose .
state of shock.broaddrick previously recounted the aftermath of the incident , when her friend rogers came back to the room after broaddrick failed to show up to the convention.in our radio interview , rogers recounted what she says she saw upon entering the room.i went back to the room and i can t remember if it was because she didn t come down to the meeting because i expected her to have a short meeting and then come to the meeting .
and so i went back up to the room and when i went back into the room and she was just very , very upset .
she was crying.and the thing i think i remember most is that her mouth was all swollen up .
it was cut .
and she just told me .
she started then telling me the story of how he had just basically overtaken her and bit her lip in order to keep her quiet and to keep her from trying to leave or get away from him .
and then she proceeded to tell me that he had pushed her onto the bed , and had raped her.her pantyhose were all ripped .
and she was just in a terrible state .
crying and just , she began telling me , you know , what had happened.but in the meantime she was starting to get her things together and she said we are leaving now .
and you know we just started getting our stuff together and i drove her home.asked whether broaddrick s lip was bleeding , rogers replied , there were obviously open spots where he had bitten her .
it was open but not openly bleeding .
you know it was just open spots on her lip .
read entire story here : breitbart news