in a shocking interview with joel gilbert , producer of dreams from my real father , malik talks about having to come through the back door at the white house or being asked to come at night so no one sees him .
he talks about everything that barack s aunt zetouni did for him when he needed her , and how he wouldn t contribute a penny for her funeral .
he left it up to the poor villagers in kenya to figure out how to get her body back to her home country .
he also reveals how barack has never contributed a dime to help a family member in kenya .
ever since president barack obama was elected president , many have wondered who obama really is and what he stands for .
undisclosed and unreported to the mainstream media , joel gilbert , who produced the film , dreams from my real father : a story of reds and deception , has released an interview with obama s brother malik obama , the freedom post reported on friday .
gilbert conducted the 12-minute interview with malik obama on april 10 , 2015 and was published on april 22 , 2015.the interview shows clips of president obama speaking of how his father grew up and herded goats and then gilbert told malik that obama had deceived americans when obama stated that he would cut the deficit , support israel , and that obamacare is not a tax and how he felt about it .
malik responded to gilbert and said , well , the way that he s turned and become a different person with the family is the same way that i see him behaving politically .
he says one thing and then he does another .
he s not been an honest man , as far as i m concerned , in who he is and what he says and how he treats people .
gilbert then asked malik on how he felt about being the oldest brother in the family , malik responded with disappointment and said , disappointed disappointed , used , used and also betrayed .
in the beginning , i didn t think that he was a schemer .
his real character , his real personality , the real him , is coming out now .
malik also spoke on how he and obama s family back in kenya feel no respect from obama and was hurt and crushed that obama would act that way to them .
i don t understand how somebody who claims to be a relative or a brother can behave the way that he s behaving , be so cold and ruthless , and just turn his back on the people , malik said .
he said were his family .
watch interview here : joel gilbert came to the front lines of obama really is when his book and film was released .
the film and book chronicles the life of president obama , based in part on two years of research , interviews , newly unearthed footage and photos , and the writings of alleged real father of president obama , frank marshall davis as well as obama himself .
the film and book also chronicles barack obama s life journey in socialism and marxism , from the day he was born through his election to the presidency.via : the examiner