moscow ( reuters ) - a russian hacker arrested in spain on a u.s. warrant said on thursday he previously worked for president vladimir putin s united russia party and feared he would be tortured and killed if extradited , ria news agency reported .
peter levashov was arrested while on holiday in barcelona in april .
u.s. prosecutors later charged him with hacking offences , accusing him of operating a network of tens of thousands of infected computers used by cyber criminals .
levashov s comments offered a rare glimpse into the relationship between cyber criminals and the russian state .
u.s. officials say russian authorities routinely shield hackers from prosecution abroad before recruiting them for espionage work .
russian hackers have been under intense scrutiny since u.s. intelligence officials accused moscow of interfering in last year s u.s. presidential election .
the kremlin has repeatedly denied the allegations .
u.s. prosecutors are seeking a 52-year jail sentence and levashov , who denies the charges against him , is fighting his extradition from spain .
he told a court in madrid on thursday that he had worked for the united russia party for the last 10 years .
i collected different information about opposition parties and delivered it to the necessary people at the necessary time , ria quoted him as saying .
levashov provided no further details about his work for the party , ria reported , though said he was an officer in the russian army with access to classified information .
it was unclear if levashov was a serving officer or an army reservist having completed mandatory military service .
he also told the court investigators in the united states would torture him for information about his political work if he was sent there to face the charges against him .
if i go to the u.s. , i will die in a year .
they want to get information of a military nature and about the united russia party , ria quoted him as saying .
i will be tortured , within a year i will be killed , or i will kill myself .
levashov has long been seen by cyber security investigators to be the person behind an online persona known as peter severa .
severa spent years listed among the world s 10 most prolific spammers , according to spam-tracking group spamhaus .
u.s. prosecutors have accused levashov of running the infamous kelihos botnet , a network of more than 100,000 infected devices used by cyber criminals to distribute viruses , ransomware , phishing emails and other spam attacks .
russia lodged its own request for levashov s extradition last week , ria reported .