london ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential candidate donald trump said muslims were not helping to prevent attacks such as those that killed at least 30 people in belgium , drawing a rebuke from britain ’ s government and from muslim groups in the country .
in an interview broadcast on britain ’ s itv television on wednesday , trump was asked what his message was for british muslims after tuesday ’ s bombings in brussels and the attacks in paris last november .
“ when they see trouble they have to report it , they are not reporting it , they are absolutely not reporting it and that ’ s a big problem , ” trump said .
his comments were countered by british interior minister theresa may who said he was “ just plain wrong ” to suggest muslims in britain were failing to report suspicious activity by extremists .
trump , the front-runner in the race to be the republican candidate in november ’ s presidential election , has made a series of controversial statements during his campaign .
his supporters see him as someone who speaks uncomfortable truths but he has outraged many others in the united states and around the world .
trump , who has called for a ban on muslims entering the united states , said it was “ a disgrace ” that one of the suspects behind last november ’ s attacks in paris had been found after a long manhunt by police in an area of brussels where he lived .
“ he was in his neighborhood where he grew up and nobody even turned him in and supposedly this is retribution for that .
it ’ s a disgrace , ” he said .
trump said there were signs that an attack by suspected muslim extremists in california in december , which killed 14 people , could have been stopped .
“ a lot of people in the community knew they were going to do it because in their apartment they had bombs all over the floor ... and they didn ’ t report them , ” he said .
“ i don ’ t know what it is .
it ’ s like they ’ re protecting each other but they ’ re really doing very bad damage .
they have to open up to society , they have to report the bad ones. ” britain ’ s may told parliament that trump was mistaken .
“ i understand he said that muslims were not coming forward in the united kingdom to report matters of concern .
this is absolutely not the case - he is just plain wrong , ” she said .