susan rice just announced she won t testify before the senate on the russian hacking.senator lyndsey graham said he s very disappointed but said , we ll deal with her later .
she gave a very flimsy excuse for not testifying via her lawyer : rice considered the invitation a diversionary play to distract attention from the investigation into russian election interference , including contacts between trump allies and russians during the campaign , the source said.that s ridiculous !
could it really be that she doesn t want to testify under oath ?
ya think ! according to cnn , barack obama s national security adviser turned down a request from sen. lindsey graham to participate in the hearing .
senator whitehouse has informed us by letter ( see below ) that he did not agree to chairman graham s invitation to ambassador rice , a significant departure from the bipartisan invitations extended to other witnesses , rice s lawyer kathryn ruemmler wrote in a letter to graham .
under these circumstances , ambassador rice respectfully declines senator graham s invitation to testify .
rice was the administration official who made the dozens of requests seeking to unmask the identities of trump associates , which she said were for national security reasons and not politically motivated read more : daily callerthe letter from rice s lawyer : dear chairman graham and ranking member whitehouse : i write on behalf of my client , ambassador susan e. rice , in response to senator graham s invitation to ambassador rice to testify at a may 8 , 2017 hearing before the senate committee on the judiciary , subcommittee on crime and terrorism entitled russian interference in the 2016 united states election .
while ambassador rice commends the subcommittee s efforts to examine this matter of extraordinary national significance , it is extremely rare for the congress to request the testimony of a former senior advisor to the president given the longstanding and well-recognized separation of powers concerns at issue .
moreover , chairman graham s invitation was extended only after the hearing was noticed , less than two weeks before the hearing was scheduled to occur , and without consultation with ambassador rice , a professional courtesy that would customarily be extended to any witness .
notwithstanding the significance of these concerns , ambassador rice is prepared to assist congressional inquiries into russian election interference because of the important national interests at stake , provided they are conducted in a bipartisan manner , and as appropriate , in classified session.in this case , however , senator whitehouse has informed us by letter that he did not agree to chairman graham s invitation to ambassador rice , a significant departure from the bipartisan invitations extended to other witnesses .
under these circumstances , ambassador rice respectfully declines senator graham s invitation to testify.again , and as ambassador rice has stated publicly , she supports and is committed to assisting the bipartisan congressional inquiries into russian interference in the 2016 election , given the utmost importance of this matter to our national security.please contact me if you have any questions .
sincerely , kathryn h. ruemmler of latham & watkins llpsusan rice has lied numerous times over the years who could forget after benghazi when rice went on 5 morning shows and lied about the cause of the attack :