when will the libs start delta smelt shaming and demand answers from the left for putting a fish before the lives and livelihood of so many tv cop tom selleck may or may not have improperly swiped precious water by the magnum , but he didn t commit a crime , real california cops told nbc news on wednesday.selleck , the 70-year-old star of blue bloods and formerly of magnum , p.i. , and his wife , jillie , were sued this week by the calleguas municipal water district in ventura county for allegedly sending a water tender like the giant tanker trucks used to supply fire engines to siphon off tankloads of water from a public hydrant at a construction site at least 12 times over the last two years.the water district said in its suit that it hired a real private investigator who several times observed the same water tender leave the 61-acre ranch the fictional p.i .
owns in the ritzy hidden valley area of ventura county , which is in a different water district and was assessed last year at more than $ 10 million ( and was once owned by dean martin ) .the suit says the water district sent cease-and-desist letters to selleck after its investigator spotted the truck at the hydrant eight times the week of sept. 29 , 2013.but the truck showed up again in december of that year , and was tracked as it proceeded to selleck s property , according to the suit.then , on four straight days just last march , the same truck again drained tankloads of water from the construction site and delivered it to the selleck ranch , the suit says .
the suit seeks an order forcing selleck to stop using the district s water , plus reimbursement for the $ 21,685.55 it paid the investigator , with damages and other costs.but the suit is a civil action , not a criminal case .
ventura county sheriff s capt .
john riley meanwhile told nbc news that the sheriff s office did investigate allegations of criminal water theft , but we are unable to establish a crime was committed .
the ventura county district attorney s office also confirmed that no case has been referred to it for prosecution.selleck hasn t responded to requests for comment , and it s unknown whether he has anything to do with the water truck , which is registered under a commercial license.eric bergh , the water district s manager of resources , said the suit wasn t meant to be an example of drought shaming , a peculiarly california activity in which people suspected of hogging water are publicly called out .
our policies have been on the books for decades , bergh said .
we just want any such activity to stop that is the bottom line for us .
it s really about doing the right thing and preserving our water supply for our users .
via : cnbc