wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s labour party on thursday promised no surprise new taxes until 2020 and improved its position as frontrunner in a national election , with a poll showing its support edging up , threatening the national party s ten-year grip on power .
the result was at odds with a shock survey by another pollster this week that put the centre-right national in the lead and underscored the unusually volatile nature of the race to the vote on sept. 23 .
backing for the labour party rose 1 point to 44 percent , the one news-colmar brunton poll showed , while support for the national party also gained 1 point , putting it at 40 percent .
in another positive sign for labour , its potential coalition partner , the green party , recovered , rising 2 points to 7 percent , comfortably above the 5 percent threshold needed to gain seats in parliament .
the nationalist new zealand first party fell 3 points to 6 percent , making it less likely that labour would need the populist party to form a coalition government after the election .
poll results have been swinging wildly and a separate newshub-reid poll on tuesday had shown a surprise surge for national , giving it a robust lead of almost ten points .
the national party has vowed to support free trade as global protectionism rises , in particular , by championing the trans-pacific partnership pact , which labour has said it would renegotiate .
an average of polls released by radio new zealand on wednesday , which included the results of newshub s shock poll , put the two parties at almost even support .
thursday s poll was published on the same day labour moved to stem criticism of a plan to set up an expert panel to consider new levies , such as a capital gains tax .
to avoid any doubt , no one will be affected by any tax changes arising from the outcomes of the working group until 2021 , said labour finance spokesman grant robertson , in a statement .
as rivalry has heated up , labour leader jacinda ardern on wednesday called national desperate liars in response to an advertisement saying the centre-left party would bring in new taxes and subverting its slogan , let s do this into let s tax this .
investors have been made jittery by the uncertainty over who will govern , but currency reaction to the latest poll was muted .
the new zealand dollar - the word s 11th most traded currency in 2016 - softened slightly to $ 0.7240 from $ 0.7250 shortly before the poll results .