qamishli , syria ( reuters ) - kurdish-led authorities held local elections on friday in areas they control in northern syria , pushing ahead with autonomy plans opposed by both the government of president bashar al-assad and by turkey .
kurdish forces and their political allies now hold the largest part of syria outside the grip of assad s government .
they have captured vast territory from islamic state with the support of u.s. arms , jets and ground advisers , although washington opposes their autonomy drive .
kurdish leaders say their goal is to establish self-rule within syria , not secession .
but their influence has infuriated ankara , which considers the kurdish ypg militia to be an offshoot of the banned kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) that has run a decades-long insurgency in turkey .
assad has vowed to recover every inch of the country , as his territorial grip expanded rapidly over the past two years with help from russia and iran .
damascus has more forcefully asserted its claim to territory held by kurdish-led forces in recent months .
the head of syria s delegation to u.n.-backed peace talks in geneva , bashar al-ja afari , rejected the election , repudiating any unilateral act that happens without coordination with damascus .
since syria s conflict began more than six years ago , the dominant kurdish parties have been left out of international diplomacy in line with turkish wishes .
they were excluded again from u.n.-led peace talks which reconvened in geneva this week .
hadiya yousef , a senior kurdish politician , said the kurdish-led administration would not be bound by decisions taken in its absence .
we are not present in these meetings , and therefore we are developing the solution on the ground , yousef told reuters .
peace talks would not arrive at solutions so long as they do not involve those running 30 percent of the country , she added .
voters are picking from close to 6,000 candidates for town and city councils on friday , the second part of a three-stage process that will culminate in electing a parliament early next year .
they chose representatives for smaller-scale district councils in september .
everyone should take part ( in the election ) because this is the fate of the entire region , said sheikhmous qamishlo , a 65-year-old syrian kurd at a polling station in qamishli .
this is a new experience , we wish it success , he said , and described casting his vote as a national duty .
the election was being monitored by a small group of politicians from other countries in the middle east , yousef said , including a member of the kurdistan democratic party which runs the autonomous kurdish region in neighboring iraq .
yousef said the iraqi kurdish official s presence was a kind of recognition of the syrian kurdish political project .
the iraqi kurdish authorities , whose own plans for independence were met with a swift backlash from states in the region in the past two months , have previously been hostile to the syrian kurdish parties .