buenos aires ( reuters ) - president barack obama and the first lady will visit the lake-side patagonian tourist city of bariloche later this month during an official trip to argentina , a u.s. diplomat told local radio on friday .
the trip will follow the couple ’ s visit to cuba on march 21 and 22 , another major step toward ending decades of animosity between former cold war foes .
they will meet with newly elected argentine president mauricio macri on march 23 and fly to bariloche the following day , kevin sullivan , deputy chief of mission at the u.s. embassy in buenos aires , told radio mitre .
the stopover in ski-destination bariloche , known for its crystal clear lakes and panoramic mountain vistas , appeared to be first lady michelle obama ’ s idea , sullivan said .
“ i believe she heard what bariloche is like ... and it seemed to her it would be a good place to share a little family time , ” sullivan said .
relations have improved between argentina and the united states since macri took office in december .
macri has moved to open latin america ’ s no .
3 economy to foreign investment by ditching trade and currency controls enacted by his predecessor .
“ it seems to us to be a good moment for president obama to get to know argentina and have a dialogue with president macri , ” sullivan said .
the agenda will include international cooperation , terrorism , human rights and energy investment .
argentina has some of the world ’ s largest untapped shale oil and natural gas formations .
china is a major investor in argentina ’ s energy and grains sectors .
march 24 will be the 40th anniversary of the 1976 coup that installed a military dictatorship , which the united states initially supported .
argentina returned to democracy in 1983 .
adolfo perez esquivel , who won the nobel peace prize for his human rights work during the dictatorship , wrote an open letter to obama this week saying that if the u.s. president stayed in buenos aires on the 24th , many argentines would see that as “ a provocation. ” marches and demonstrations in honor of the victims of the military junta are planned for that date in the argentine capital .