jacksonville , fla. ( reuters ) - president barack obama used a trip to a lithium-ion battery factory on friday to defend his economic record against arguments made by republicans in the race to succeed him after the nov. 8 presidential election .
obama said his policies , including the $ 760 billion economic stimulus he brought in when he first took office , helped the american economy bounce back from the 2007-2009 recession that he inherited much faster than european nations that adopted austerity measures .
“ if we don ’ t recognize the progress we ’ ve made and how that came about , then we may chase some snake oil and end up having policies that get us back in the swamp , ” obama told workers at the plant built by french company saft with $ 95.5 million from the stimulus .
“ we knew that it ’ s going to take more than one year or even one president to get to where we need to go , but we can see real tangible evidence of what a new economy looks like .
it looks like this facility right here. ” the saft plant , which opened in 2011 , created almost 300 jobs in the region but has struggled with sluggish demand for lithium-ion batteries .
the french company had to take a writedown and its chief executive has said it would probably take two to three years to become profitable .
obama acknowledged the pace of changes in the economy has been “ scary sometimes. ” those economic fears have helped propel the campaign of donald trump , the billionaire businessman who is the front-runner in the race to be the republican candidate for the nov. 8 presidential election .
florida , home to republican presidential candidate senator marco rubio , is critical to both the march 15 primary vote and the general election that follows .
obama brought democratic u.s. representative patrick murphy from florida with him on the trip .
murphy is running for rubio ’ s senate seat .
stimulus investments to advanced battery makers were panned by republican lawmakers after a123 systems , a lithium-ion battery maker , went bankrupt in 2012 and was bought by chinese auto parts maker wanxiang .
battery maker lg chem came under fire after a 2013 energy department inspector general report found that the company used some of its funding for a michigan battery plant to pay employees to watch movies , volunteer at non-profits and play games because there was little work for them to do .
but obama said the stimulus helped america compete in the global race to boost solar and wind power .
“ taxpayers are getting their money back , and some , ” he said .
( reporting by roberta rampton and ayesha rascoe ; editing by bill trott ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .