this administration has to be the most bumbling and clueless one ever !
they ve just incentivized kidnapping and holding hostage anyone and everyone the terrorists think they can get a ransom out of .
brilliant general john r. allen on ransom for hostages : what is hard to prove is how many americans have not been kidnapped as a result of the fact that the enemy knows they will not get a penny from us , said gen. john r. allen , who recently retired as the top commander in afghanistan .
the fact that there are americans in the region who were never taken because they knew there was no advantage to doing so needs to be factored in .
the obama administration was accused wednesday of giving terrorists an incentive to kidnap as it unveiled a hostage policy overhaul allowing families of u.s. hostages to pay ransom and allowing the u.s. government to help families communicate with captors .
this doesn t fix anything , rep. duncan hunter , r-calif. , a leading critic of the administration s hostage policy , told fox news .
the money that we re going to be paying isis is going to be used to buy arms and to buy equipment to fight americans and to fight the iraqis .
but the white house said the changes are being unveiled with the families and victims in mind .
we re not going to abandon you .
we re going to stand by you , obama said of hostages families , speaking at the white house on wednesday.the policy review was formally released shortly before noon , and includes a host of changes beyond the clarifications on ransom discussions notably , the creation of a new bureaucratic structure for handling hostage cases.the white house plans to establish a hostage recovery fusion cell responsible for coordinating the recovery of hostages ; a hostage response group responsible for coordinating hostage policies ; and the position of special presidential envoy for hostage affairs .
obama said this is being done to sync up various efforts , citing past coordination problems.read more : fox news