new york ( reuters ) - in april , reuters photographer zohra bensemra was sent to cover the drought in somalia .
once there , she looked for ways to humanize the plight of more than 2 million people trying to survive the famine amid fields of withered crops and the brittle skeletons of livestock .
see her portfolio of work here in a makeshift camp for displaced people , bensemra met zeinab , a 14-year-old girl forced to marry an older man offering $ 1,000 as her dowry .
zeinab had wanted to become an english teacher , but that small fortune made it possible for her extended family to travel to a somali town on the ethiopian border where international aid agencies providing food for drought refugees .
bensemra found similar stories during a nearly two-week trip through the horn of africa .
photography opens eyes to what s going on in the world , says bensemra , who was named agency photographer of the year by the guardian , a u.k.-based newspaper .
it s not about nationalism or religion but about human beings .
the guardian recognized bensemra s 2017 work covering some of the planet s most dire situations : the fight against islamic state in iraq and syria ; the rohingya refugee crisis ; and the drought in somalia , among others .
read the story here in bensemra s role as an eyewitness to war , human rights abuses and other atrocities , she says it is crucial to remain unbiased .
it s important to stay neutral if we want people to believe us and trust us , bensemra says .
we have to be in the middle .
we don t take sides .
read her photographer profile here based in algeria , bensemra says she believes being a woman in the field has its advantages .
for one , people are more likely to open up to her and share their stories .
one of her most memorable photographs of the year shows an exhausted khatla ali abdallah , 90 , fleeing a battle with islamic state outside mosul in february .
bensemra had tears in her eyes as she shot the photograph , imagining the woman as her own grandmother , but unable to help .
when you see people suffering and living very , very hard lives , i imagine myself in their place , she says .