kabul ( reuters ) - nancy hatch dupree , a historian from the united states who helped set up the afghanistan centre at kabul university , has died in the country whose culture she worked for more than five decades to preserve , the university said on sunday .
she was 89 .
dupree arrived in kabul in 1962 as a diplomat s wife but soon divorced and married louis dupree , an archaeologist celebrated for his adventurous exploits and groundbreaking discoveries of paleolithic afghan tools and artifacts .
for the next 15 years , they traveled across afghanistan by land rover as louis dupree excavated prehistoric sites and nancy wrote a series of witty and insightful guidebooks to a country since torn apart by decades of warfare .
she called herself an old monument and a lot of afghans called her the grandmother of afghanistan , said wahid wafa , executive director of the afghanistan centre .
she understood and knew afghanistan much better than anybody else .
a fixture in the social scene of kabul during the 1970s , a now-vanished world of smart cocktail parties and mini-dresses , they were forced to leave in 1978 after the soviet-backed government accused louis dupree of being a spy .
her husband died in 1989 and much of the time before her return to afghanistan in 2005 was spent in pakistan , where as well as briefly meeting osama bin laden and working with the growing number of war refugees , she assiduously gathered as much documentation on afghanistan as she could .
in 2005 , after the fall of the taliban and the installation of a new western-backed government in kabul , she returned with some 35,000 documents wrapped up in fertilizer bags , which became the basis for the afghanistan centre archive .
a prolific writer , she was director of the centre between 2006 and 2011 and continued to go into her office after she stepped down , remaining an institution in the cultural life of kabul and receiving a stream of visitors .
it was nancy s aim to preserve afghanistan s heritage , said wafa .
she was a very funny , interesting person who loved to talk to anyone coming to visit .
she was kind , she was very giving with the information she had and she was always lobbying for the afghanistan she first knew .
while she could be waspishly critical of both blundering westerners and afghans she felt were promoting a bigoted version of their culture , she retained her faith in her adopted country to the end , wafa said .
despite the 40 years of war in afghanistan she was always hopeful of the future and hopeful for the future of the new generation in afghanistan .