ljubljana ( reuters ) - slovenian president borut pahor was re-elected for a second term in a runoff vote on sunday , beating his challenger in a tight race .
pahor had won about 53 percent of the vote , with 99.9 percent of the votes counted , according to the election commission , while his opponent , ex-comedian marjan sarec , had 47 percent .
turnout was about 42 percent , according to preliminary figures , the lowest for a presidential election since slovenia became an independent country in 1991 .
i will be the president of all ( slovenians ) , i will connect people , build upon the things we have in common , pahor told reporters after securing another five-year mandate .
he had said that he would focus on cooperation , political stability and security .
although the role of the president is mainly ceremonial , the president leads the army and also nominates several top officials , including the central bank governor .
most of his nominations have to be confirmed by parliament .
pahor , 54 , was forced into a second-round run-off after falling short of securing a majority in the first round last month .
sarec , who is mayor of the northern town of kamnik and represents a party that does not even have seats in parliament , said he was encouraged by the close result even though he lost .
however , he refused to say whether his party would run in a general election expected in june next year .
this is a very good result regardless of the final outcome ... and shows that the time for a generation change has arrived , he told tv slovenia .
tomorrow is a new day and then we will see how to proceed , he said when asked whether his party would run in the general election .
in the first round three weeks ago , pahor won about 47 percent of the vote among nine candidates , with sarec coming in second with almost 25 percent .
pahor was a long-serving leader of the center-left social democrats but ran for president both times as an independent candidate .
he was slovenian prime minister from 2008 to 2012 , the run-up to the worst financial crisis in slovenia s history .
in 2013 , the euro zone member only narrowly managed to avoid an international bailout for its banks , burdened by a large amount of bad loans .
a former fashion model , pahor is also known as the king of the instagram for frequently posting photos on social media showing him in various sporting activities as well as his official duties .
sarec , 39 , campaigned arguing that a change of policy was needed to further improve the economy and lift slovenians living standards .
he is supported by his own center-left party , lista marjana sarca , which has so far only been active at local level .