havana/bogota ( reuters ) - members of colombia ’ s marxist farc guerrillas will meet u.s. secretary of state john kerry in cuba , a spokeswoman for colombia ’ s government peace negotiators said on sunday , adding a twist to a historic visit to the island by u.s. president barack obama .
the meeting with kerry on monday will be the first time a u.s. secretary of state has met the negotiators from the revolutionary armed forces of colombia , who have been talking peace with the colombian government in havana for more than three years .
“ at around 4 p.m. ( 2000 gmt ) , the meeting between kerry and the farc delegation will take place , ” after the colombian government delegation meet him , the spokeswoman said .
a source at colombia ’ s office of the high commissioner for peace said the rebels and colombian government negotiators would also go to an exhibition game between major league baseball ’ s tampa bay rays and cuba ’ s national team on tuesday .
that game will be attended by obama , who on sunday became the first sitting u.s. president to visit cuba in nearly 90 years .
but farc negotiator pastor alape said he was not aware of an invitation to attend the baseball game .
he said that before meeting with kerry , the rebels would meet the u.s. special envoy for colombian peace talks , bernard aronson , to agree on an agenda .
the united states sees the colombian peace talks hosted in havana as an example of how restoring normal relations with cuba can help its wider goals in latin america .
latin america ’ s longest war has killed some 220,000 people and displaced millions of others since 1964 .
the government and rebels are attempting to reach a deal that would be placed before colombian voters for approval , with a u.n. mission supervising rebel disarmament .
colombian president juan manuel santos and farc leader rodrigo londono , better known by the nom de guerre timochenko , had set a self-imposed march 23 deadline to reach a comprehensive pact but have since conceded that goal may not be reached .
washington designated the farc as a foreign terrorist organization in 1997 , and many of its leaders have been indicted in the united states on charges of cocaine trafficking .