table set for thanksgiving in siem reap .
( photo : andre vltchek ) andre vltchek neoa table was set up for two , an advertisement table , a table with a photo of a giant turkey , two elegant plates , and a u.s. flag sticking out into the air .
thanksgiving at angkor royal cafe , a flier read .
and : 23rd november join us for a traditional thanksgiving feast .this was at one of the international hotels in siem reap , a cambodian city near the world architectural treasures of angkor wat and the ancient khmer capital , angkor thom.the same day i read an email sent to me from the united states , by my native american friends , with a link to an essay published by mpn news , called thanksgiving guide : how to celebrate a sordid history .
it began with a summary : while millions of americans prepare this week to get into the holiday spirit , beginning with thanksgiving , how many are prepared to view the day through an accurate lens ?
while to many americans the holiday serves as a reminder to give thanks , it is seen as a day of mourning by countless of others .
the truth is : european migrants brutally murdered native americans , stole their land , and continue to do so today .
the day became an official day of festivities in 1637 , to celebrate the massacre of over 700 people from the pequot tribe.in a hotel , i approached a cheerful french food and beverage manager and asked him whether he was aware of what he was suggesting should be celebrated in one of his restaurants ?
oh i know i know , he replied , laughing .
it is a little bit controversial , isn t it ?
bit controversial ?
i wondered .
it appears more like you are inviting people to celebrate genocide , a holocaust , with free flowing wine and a giant turkey .
i am trying to see things positively , he continued grinning at me .
then he summarized : so i guess you won t be joining us tonight ?
what a pity what a pity , i thought , what a pity .
i won t get to eat that famous american pie tonight and turkey and who knows what else , just because i am not eager at all to celebrate the massacres and land grabs perpetrated by the empire.the manager couldn t help asking : where are you from ?
i knew he would ask .
no european would say what i was saying .
i m russian , i replied .
oh i see , he gave me that i should have guessed smile .
russian-american , i added.i m convinced that the french manager has been sincerely oblivious about what i was stating .
he is supposed to be oblivious .
there are , after all , our genocides , and the genocides of the others .
our genocides , those that we triggered or committed , should never be discussed .
or more precisely , it is extremely impolite to discuss them .
most of the people don t even know about them , including many of the victims .
on the other hand , the genocides committed by the others , particularly by adversaries of the west , are widely discussed , publicized , analyzed , inflated and very often even fabricated ( all this described in detail in my 840-page book exposing lies of the empire ) .cambodia is the textbook case of the latter .
here , several decades ago , the u.s. and its allies first supported the hopelessly corrupt and brutal government in phnom penh , while triggering a monstrous carpet-bombing campaign of the cambodian countryside , mainly near the border with vietnam .
this was supposed to prevent the country from going communist , or at least ho chi minh style communist .
hundreds of thousands of villagers were murdered by the bombing .
millions were forced to hit the road , leaving their dwellings , as the countryside was converted into a giant minefield , covered by unexploded ordnance.further hundreds of thousands died from starvation and diseases .
furious , mad from suffering , the people of cambodia rose against the collaborators with the west in phnom penh .
pol pot and his khmer rouge took the capital virtually unopposed .
recently , deep in the jungle , i spoke to the former pol pot s personal guards .
i asked them point-blank whether they knew anything about communism .
nothing at all , i was told .
the u.s. was murdering our families , for no reason .
corrupt elites were selling the country to the west .
we were all outraged , and ready for revenge .
we would follow anybody calling for revenge .
however , the west is passing the events , to this day , as a communist genocide .rwanda is yet another case of a twisted narrative .
i made an entire full-length documentary film rwanda gambit on the subject .
there , the west turned the history upside down , reducing the entire tragedy into a primitive and easy-to-digest narrative of bad hutus killing good tutsis .
yet even the former u.s. ambassador robert flatten told me that his country groomed , armed and supported the deadly rpf , mainly tutsi army , which had been , before 1994 , raiding the rwandan countryside from neighboring uganda , burning villages and killing civilians.while a former australian lawyer and u.n. investigator , michael hourigan , supplied me with information about the downing of the plane , which , in april 1994 , killed both the rwandan president juvenal habyarimana and burundian president cyprien ntaryamira , while on the final approach to kigali airport .
the orders to shoot down the plane were given by the rpf leader paul kagame , who was in turn sponsored by the west .
this event triggered the terrible bloodletting on 1994 .
the next year , in 1995 , the rwandan army entered the democratic republic of congo ( drc ) and participated in the killing of at least 9 million people , mainly civilians , on behalf of western governments and multi-national companies , making it the worst crime against humanity in recent history.in fact , almost all the major genocides committed by the west or its allies in modern history , are silent ones , including those in iraq , syria , iran , west papua , east timor , drc , indonesia , afghanistan , angola , and dozens of other unfortunate places all over the world.the gruesome genocides committed by the west all over the world , during the last 2,000 but especially during the last 500 years , are never defined as such ; never as genocides .
throughout history , european countries have been destroying , systematically , most of the cultures on all continents of the planet , enslaving virtually all the non-white nations , plundering and looting its colonies ( read : almost all the non-white nations of the world ) , while exterminating hundreds of millions of men , women and children .
the death toll has been rising , accumulating , to near 1 billion , according to the testimony of one of my friends , a senior u.n. statistician.i will return to the cambodian story soon , on the pages of this magazine .
and i will be returning , again and again , to the genocides committed by europe and north america , virtually everywhere .
unless the history is understood and acknowledged , the world has no future , and there can be no solutions to the terrible problems that our humanity is facing.but for now , let me conclude this brief essay by saying that i did not participate in the consumption of turkey and american pies on thanksgiving holiday , in the cambodian city of seam reap.my thoughts went to those 700 people from the pequot tribe who rebelled , stood firm and died for freedom , almost 400 years ago .
these were some of the first fighters against western imperialism .
these were the americans that i admire , this is america that had been terribly damaged but not yet completely destroyed .
no overly sugary , sentimental and empty words could fully choke its essence , as no gluttony and food orgies could ever fully silence the screams of the pain of those who died in the hands of the european invaders , during and after the conquest of what has been so cynically christened as the new world .
* * * andre vltchek is a philosopher , novelist , filmmaker and investigative journalist .
he has covered wars and conflicts in dozens of countries .
three of his latest books are his tribute to the great october socialist revolution a revolutionary novel aurora and a bestselling work of political non-fiction : exposing lies of the empire .
view his other books here .
watch rwanda gambit , his groundbreaking documentary about rwanda and drcongo and his film/dialogue with noam chomsky on western terrorism .
vltchek presently resides in east asia and the middle east , and continues to work around the world .
he can be reached through his website and his twitter.support 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv