sydney ( reuters ) - hundreds of asylum seekers refused to leave a detention center in papua new guinea on wednesday , even after power and water were cut and food supplies dwindled , in a stand-off that human rights groups warn could become a humanitarian crisis .
australia and png are trying to close the manus island center , one of two remote pacific camps that canberra uses to detain asylum seekers who arrive by boat .
the camps have drawn widespread international condemnation .
the remote manus island center has been a key part of australia s disputed sovereign borders immigration policy under which it refuses to allow asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores , detaining them instead in png and nauru in the south pacific .
around 600 detainees on manus island are defying the attempts to close the camp , saying they fear violent reprisals from the local community .
the men refused to board a bus to a transit center on the island on wednesday , three of the asylum-seekers told reuters , frustrating australia s plans to dismantle part of its costly offshore detention program .
they took generators this morning and they cut the main pipes , there is no power in the whole center and no water , sudanese refugee abdul aziz told reuters .
people are extremely anxious .
the asylum seekers , warned that utilities would be cut , had begun to collect rainwater in bins .
however , without running water , advocates fear a rapid decline in sanitary conditions of the camp .
the loss of power also threatens to dampen morale of the detainees , nearly all of whom are suffering from mental health issues , according to a united nations report in 2015 .
mobile phones are a lifeline for these men , said elaine pearson , director of human rights watch in australia .
they are completed isolated and they need phones to get real-time information about what is happening elsewhere on manus , as well as to stay in touch with their families .
the detainees were sharing what food remained but some of the men reuters spoke to by phone said supplies were running low .
they had been given enough meals to last only until the camp s official closure on tuesday .
acting australian prime minister julie bishop said the men should move to the new centers , which australia has said it would support with a $ 250 million ( $ 195 million ) worth of food and security for the next 12 months .
the relocation of the men is designed as a temporary measure , allowing the united states time to complete vetting of refugees as part of a refugee swap deal that australia hopes will see it no longer responsible for the detention of nearly 1,400 asylum seekers who have been classified as refugees .
those not accepted by the united states would likely be resettled in png or in another developing country , dashing hopes of coming to australia .
vehement opposition among manus residents to the asylum seekers has raised fears within the camp of potential violence , stoked further by the departure of australian-employed private security guards on tuesday .
we did not sleep , about 30 guys at one time would keep watch for potential attacks , said an asylum seeker who asked to be identified only as imran , due to fears his application for u.s. resettlement could be jeopardized .
lawyers for some of the 600 men filed a last-minute suit in png s supreme court on tuesday to prevent the camp s closure and for services to be returned .
a ruling is expected later on wednesday .
png s high court ruled last year that the manus center , first opened in 2001 , was illegal .
the united nations and rights groups have for years cited human rights abuses among detainees in the centers .