jerusalem ( reuters ) - less than an hour after u.s. president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , palestinians protested by turning off the lights on the christmas tree outside bethlehem s church of the nativity , the traditional birthplace of jesus .
it was a timely reminder that while headlines focused on islamist calls for uprisings and trump s references to jewish historical ties , the president s words also stirred deep feelings among the palestinians small christian community .
coming out of the sunday service in his assyrian catholic church in jerusalem , fredrick hazo accused trump of dragging all the world into trouble , and called on the u.s. leader to reverse his decision .
we are united - christians , muslims , we are one , said the 59-year-old palestinian musician , standing in an alley in the heart of the old city , surrounded by shops selling religious trinkets .
he was frustrated by the politics , but confident the delicate balance the three faiths kept in the holy city would prevail .
in this sacred place , god is protecting us all .
we are guarded by his angels in jerusalem , hazo added .
christians make up around just one percent of the palestinian population in gaza , the west bank and east jerusalem - though they punch above their weight in local and national politics .
back in july , hazo protested alongside muslims against israel s installation of security scanners at the nearby al-aqsa mosque - islam s third holiest site - after two arab-israeli gunmen shot dead two israeli police officers at the site .
it removed the metal detectors after days of bloody clashes , scenes that have not been repeated in the city since trump s declaration .
the appeals to religious unity inside jerusalem s walls stand in contrast to the more divided voices outside .
in the hours running up to trump s statement , pope francis called for the status quo in the city to be respected .
the episcopal church of the united states said trump s announcement could have profound ramifications on the peace process and the future of a two-state solution .
but trump s decision found strong backing from another corner of the christian community - many among his own country s politically powerful evangelicals who see god s hand in the modern-day return of jews to a biblical homeland .
trump convened a circle of evangelical advisers during his presidential bid , and he was the overwhelming favorite of white evangelical voters in last year s u.s. election .
we are all bible-believers and we believe that this is the bible-land and that jerusalem is the ancient capital of israel back to the days of king david , said dallas-based mike evans , part of an evangelical group that met trump on monday .
so for our president to stand up and declare it makes us extremely proud and honored .
for palestinian supermarket cashier mohammed al-hawa , however , trump s words and the logic behind them ignored the more complex reality on the ground .
people of all faith in jerusalem were united in prayer , the 33-year-old said , even if they were divided over politics .
christians , jews and muslims live in this city together .
there is no problem between them .
only the politics .
the governments want to make wars , he said .
this is my city - my blood , my life , added a 70-year-old palestinian , walking through the pilgrim-packed courtyard of jerusalem s church of the holy sepulchre , revered by christians as the site of jesus s tomb .
the church is packed into a small parcel of land that also holds the al-aqsa compound and judaism s western wall i can go to the church , to anywhere in jerusalem , not trump nor netanyahu can stop me , added the man who identified himself only as a jerusalemite .