hey , everything is fair game in this war to win the white house .
the clintons have their attack dog in john podesta who s about as radical and devious as they come .
it s pretty interesting that all of a sudden the democrats are saying you need to keep it clean .
they certainly don t have the moral high ground in anything political .
podesta must be desperate .
what a putz ! a top aide for democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton s campaign on monday ripped attacks on bill clinton s past infidelity by gop rival donald trump , saying trump has gone in the gutter .
clinton campaign chairman john podesta also issued a warning to clinton s democratic rival sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt. ) to stay away from the topic .
i hope he s not going there , podesta said of sanders during an appearance on msnbc s andrea mitchell reports after the host noted it seems there s some piling on here by sanders .
he said that he s going to run a positive campaign , that he wasn t going to go in for personal attacks and i take him at his word on that , podesta continued .
but i hope he s not thinking about going there , because , again , i think what trump has done to go in the gutter is reprehensible , the clinton campaign chairman added .
podesta on bringing bill s sexual exploits into the campaign : sanders fielded a question late friday at a town hall in iowa about bill clinton s affair with white house intern monica lewinsky .
hillary clinton is not bill clinton .
what bill clinton did , i think we can all acknowledge was totally , totally , totally disgraceful and unacceptable .
but i am running against hillary clinton .
i am not running against bill clinton , sanders told the questioner , according to the washington post.trump has for several weeks knocked the clintons over bill clinton s sexual history , and on sunday argued that hillary was an enabler for her husband.clinton s campaign manager maintained on monday that bill clinton remains an asset for us .
via : the hill