beijing ( reuters ) - china said on thursday its friendly policy toward zimbabwe would not change , after the military said it had seized power and was holding president robert mugabe and his family safe while targeting criminals .
china is paying close attention to the situation in zimbabwe and hoped for stability and a peaceful , appropriate resolution , foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang told a daily news briefing in beijing .
china s cooperation with zimbabwe was all round and benefited both peoples , he added .
china s friendly policy towards zimbabwe won t change .
we will continue to develop friendly cooperation with zimbabwe on an equal , mutually beneficial win-win cooperation principle , geng said , without elaborating .
influential state-run chinese tabloid the global times said in an editorial on thursday that zimbabwe was unlikely to reverse its relations with china .
since zimbabwe s independence , there has been no anti-china faction in the country , and it is unlikely to appear in the future , it said .
in contrast to his elevated status on the continent , mugabe is reviled in the west as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of africa s most promising states .
china and zimbabwe have a close diplomatic and economic relationship and beijing has stood with mugabe s government in the face of western economic sanctions , investing in auto , diamond , tobacco and power-station projects .
baic motor corp ltd ( 1958.hk ) , which has a joint venture making pick-up trucks in zimbabwe , told reuters there had been no impact on its operations .
neither of two other chinese companies - tianze tobacco and diamond mining anjin investments - responded to requests for comment on their operations in zimbabwe .
in august , zimbabwe s government said a chinese company planned to invest up to $ 2 billion to revive operations at zimbabwe iron and steel company ( zisco ) , which ceased production in 2008 at the height of zimbabwe s economic meltdown .
that same year , china vetoed a proposed western-backed u.n. resolution that would have imposed an arms embargo on zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on mugabe and 13 other officials , saying it would complicate , rather than ease , conflict .