21st century wire says there have been a string of active shooter events prior to 2016 s first presidential debate this coming week with many incidents appearing suspicious in nature .
the guardian reports that the apparent motive still remains unclear : a 20-year-old suspect was in custody on sunday for the killing of five people during a deadly shooting at a mall in burlington , washington , two days before .
arcan cetin of oak harbor , washington , a legal permanent resident who had immigrated to the us from turkey , was discovered zombie-like , police said , on saturday evening after police responded to a tip-off following an intensive 24-hour manhunt .
cetin was unarmed at the time of his arrest , authorities said .
although a motive for the shooting remains unclear , authorities told local media that cetin s ex-girlfriend had previously worked at the targeted department store but left her job months ago .
the suspect had been charged three times with domestic assault against his stepfather and had been ordered by a judge not to possess a firearm , according to the seattle times .
at a saturday press conference , the fbi said terrorism was not a suspected motive .
memory hole below photo illustration 21wire s shawn heltoncascade mall shooting an active shooter drill ? memory holevictim corpses remain in mall overnightwitnesses sequestered from pressphotograph depicts porta-potties , hugs and smiles at sceneas we have sought to document at mhb on a routine basis , active shooter drills are now common occurrences across the us .
such training is a consequence of the heightened federalization of local and regional law enforcement.the september 23 cascade mall shooting north of seattle in northwest washington state took place shortly before 7:00pm local time , and has certain suspect features evident in photos , particularly evidence of tents and porta-potties on the scene , as observed by a mhb reader.there is an absence of footage of wounded or deceased victims in triage or being given ambulatory services away from the scene .
instead , news media were told victims remained in the mall awaiting the local coroner .
the washington post reports , as of saturday morning , the bodies of the four female victims were still inside the mall , skagit county coroner hayley thompson said at a news conference saturday .
thompson said when she gained access to the scene , the four female victims would be taken to skagit valley hospital and undergo autopsies .
such events are reported on by major news media uncritically , thus supporting the call for strengthened gun control measures while ironically stimulating gun purchases by a public that fears such restrictions.the cascade mall shooting s police spokesperson for the event is washington state patrol s mark francis .
a press release was issued over 18 hours after the event transpired .