havana ( reuters ) - the man forecast to replace cuban president raul castro early next year rejected u.s. demands that the communist-run country change its political and economic system .
in a sunday speech blasting u.s. pressure on the venezuelan government and what he termed an effort to discredit the cuban tourism industry , first vice president miguel diaz-canel said these and other recent events in the region proved imperialism can never be trusted , not even a tiny bit , never .
diaz-canel was quoting ernesto che guevara at a ceremony commemorating the 50th anniversary of the death of the revolutionary who had helped lead a bolivian uprising modeled after cuba s. cuba will not make concessions to its sovereignty and independence , nor negotiate its principles or accept the imposition of conditions , diaz-canel said , apparently responding to u.s. president donald trump s recent statement at the united nations that sanctions would not be lifted until the caribbean island restores democracy and capitalism .
the changes needed in cuba will solely be carried out by the cuban people , diaz-canel said .
castro , 86 , has announced he will step down as president in february .
experts expect diaz-canel , 57 , to become the first head of state since the early 1960s without castro as a last name .
there are no direct elections in cuba for national office .
trump said in june that he would once more tighten sanctions on cuba and seek a better deal from the country than the gradual detente achieved by predecessor barack obama .
the trump administration has drastically reduced staffing at its embassy in cuba and ordered a reciprocal reduction of cuban diplomats in washington due to a series of alleged health attacks on u.s. personnel in havana .
the united states has not blamed cuba for the still unsolved incidents but holds it responsible for not protecting its personnel .
the administration has also issued a travel warning stating u.s. citizens might be targeted .
some unnamed officials are propagating unusual nonsense without any evidence , with the perverse aim of discrediting the impeccable reputation of our country as a safe destination for foreign visitors , including from the united states , diaz-canel said .