* * * warning * * * video is disturbing * * * * what is even more disturbing is that hillary s campaign chairman and closest advisor was invited to partake in this event by his brother .
these people are off the charts bizarre and sick in perhaps the most disturbing wikileaks release to date , tony podesta ( john podesta s brother ) is invited to a spirit cooking dinner with performance artist marina abramovic.dinner with a famous artist might sound deeply mundane , but there is far more to this story.abramovic , 69 , is a fairly famous serbian performance artist , who now lives in new york.in an email dated june 28 , 2015 , abramovic wrote : here s a video showing marina abramovic mixing vat of what appears to be concealed blood with fresh breast milk and fresh semen to drink on earthquake nights keep in mind , these are the same podesta brothers responsible for helping hillary to obtain up to $ 25 million in donations from saudi arabia.abramovic is known for her often-gory art that confronts pain and ritual .
her first performance involved repeatedly , stabbing herself in her hands .
the next performance featured her throwing her nails , toenails , and hair into a flaming five-point star which she eventually jumped inside of , causing her to lose consciousness .
during the next , she ingested a medication to treat people who are catatonic , which caused violent muscle spasms.perhaps most famously , in 1974 , abramovic placed 72 objects on a table , including a rose , a feather , honey , a whip , olive oil , scissors , a scalpel and a gun and a single bullet .
alongside the items was a sign informing the audience that the items could be used on her in any way that they chose.for six hours , she remained at the mercy of the audience , allowing them to do as they pleased .
during that time , she was stripped , cut , and one audience member even held the gun to her head .
what i learned was that if you leave it up to the audience , they can kill you .
i felt really violated : they cut up my clothes , stuck rose thorns in my stomach , one person aimed the gun at my head , and another took it away .
it created an aggressive atmosphere .
after exactly 6 hours , as planned , i stood up and started walking toward the audience .
everyone ran away , to escape an actual confrontation , she later said of the performance .
wearechange.orgit will probably come as no surprise to see hillary supporter , lady gaga partaking in such a disgusting and gruesome event : https : //twitter.com/wdfx2eu7/status/794530179267727360she s with hillary :