washington ( reuters ) - the united states believes progress with china on a range of trade issues has become more difficult and beijing appears on a trajectory of retrenchment , a senior trump administration official said on tuesday .
president donald trump will insist in upcoming talks with chinese president xi jinping that more balance is needed in u.s.-chinese trade relations , the official said , briefing reporters ahead of trump s nov. 3-14 asia trip that will include a stop in beijing .
trump s asia tour is shaping up to be the longest by an american president in 25 years .
with tensions aboil over north korea s nuclear challenge , trump leaves on friday on a trip with stops in japan , south korea , china , vietnam and the philippines .
while in south korea , trump will speak to u.s. and south korea troops , but time constraints will preclude a stop at the demilitarized zone , the border region that separates north and south korea , another senior official said .
the official s remarks on the u.s.-chinese trade relations could herald some friction in trump s talks with xi on a state visit to beijing that comes just as xi consolidated power in a communist party congress .
trump has repeatedly complained about the u.s. trade deficit with china , which was $ 347 billion in 2016 .
but he has shied away from taking major punitive trade actions against china .
the official said over the long-term china must provide fair and reciprocal treatment to u.s. and international companies and stop predatory trade and investment practice .
progress on a range of bilateral economic issues has become increasingly difficult .
we believe this reflects a slowdown and even a retrenchment in china s move toward a market-oriented economy , the official said .
on monday , chinese ambassador to the united states cui tiankai predicted in a briefing with reporters that there will be significant outcomes on the economic side while trump is in beijing .
cui said countries can not look simply at trade balance and imbalance because what is behind those numbers is important and very complicated .
he called the u.s. trade deficit a structural problem that can not be resolved overnight .
while on his trip trump will also hold his first face-to-face meeting with philippines president rodrigo duterte on the sidelines of the association of south east asia nations summit being held in manila .
despite a history of anti-american rhetoric , one of the administration officials said trump and duterte have developed a warm rapport .