pamela anderson is best known for her role on the tv show baywatch .
lately , she s getting attention for being the love of wikileaks julian assange .
that s why it s interesting that she s now somewhat of a fan of melania trump .
it s interesting that anderson praised melania for not wearing fur to the inauguration because the first lady has been pictured many times wearing fur .
an unlikely cause or has melania gone anti-fur ?
it is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace pamela andersonon wednesday , the baywatch alum shared a letter she received from the first lady .
dear melania , thank you for your sweet note , anderson tweeted alongside an image of the letter .
it is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace .
the note from melania trump thanked anderson for sending a beautiful eco-faux fur from russian faux-fur manufacturer only me .
melania trump s letter concluded , i am grateful for your support and encouraging words ; they mean a great deal .
together , we can empower more women to stand up for their beliefs .
anderson sent the gift to flotus in february , with a note that read , amid all the mania at the inauguration , you looked stunning in an outfit by ralph lauren one of many fur-free designers .
i am so happy that you chose not to wear fur !
as first lady , you will help set style trends , and by remaining compassionate with your choices , you will warm the hearts of many .
anderson has been a longtime animal rights activist and member of people for the ethical treatment of animals ( peta ) .
in july 2015 , she wrote an open letter to russian president vladimir putin asking him to save endangered fin whales.this is an interesting choice for a common cause since melania trump has been pictured in many beautiful furs over the years .
is she now anti-fur ? pam anderson and wikileaks julian assange an itemin april , the playboy cover star opened up about her relationship with wikileaks founder julian assange , who has been living in the ecuadorian embassy in london since 2012 .
i understand that our affair and the curiosity surrounding that might bring some attention to his situation .
that s fine , but i d rather not go into private details , she told people .
let s just say everyone deserves love .
president donald trump has expressed that it s ok with him if the justice department wanted to charge assange .
wonder what anderson has to say about that ? via : hollywood reporter