dolly kyle has written a scathing tell all book exposing the sickening hidden truth about bill and hillary clinton .
hillary s war on just about anyone who is beneath her , or who would dare to get in the way of her ascent to the white house .
when will the media do their job and report the truth about this horrible opportunist ? dolly kyle who was just 11 when she first crossed paths with bill , dated him through high school and began sleeping with him once they graduated published the claims about the clinton couple s racial epithets and politics in her new book , hillary : the other woman , published by wnd books.bill and hillary clinton profess to have always been supporters of racial equality , but anecdotes published in a new book by his ex-lover claim otherwise.bill was also sued several times by blacks and hispanics for violations of the 1965 voting rights act.behind the reverend jesse jackson s back , the clinton duo called him , that g * * damned n * * * * r .dolly claims the couple used the same insult toward robert say mcintosh , one of the leading african-american activists in little rock , arkansas when bill was governor .
mcintosh was dogging clinton about ongoing relationships with black prostitutes , q charge , she says , bill never denied.clinton never denied stories that he was having an ongoing relationship with one black prostitute as well as her friends .
he did deny a rumor that he had fathered a child with a black prostitute while governor and took a dna test that was reported as negative.rumors of the trysts throughout little rock and were aided by one prominent black female newscaster who used to brag openly around the television station about her relationship with the governor , although they were only indulging in oral sex .bill clinton and dolly grew up with jim crow laws in place in the plantation mentality of the south and they were in full force during the 1950s and 60s.it was a segregated society in hot springs at that time .
black and white students went to different schools .
in the movie theaters , black people had to watch the movie from a balcony , use separate bathrooms and water fountains .
signs that separated whites and colored were deadly serious and always enforced , dolly writes.in arkansas , everyone had to pay a $ 2 poll tax to vote , and the cost was a huge sum for many black people.the black vote was further diluted by gerrymandering , a wide-spread practice of dividing electoral districts along racial lines to dilute the black vote .not one black was voted into the arkansas legislation in hundreds of elections.in the 1980s , clinton was sued several times by blacks and hispanics for violations of the 1965 voting rights act and he lost every case.the district lines were redrawn under court order.ben mcgee was a black democrat was elected to the state legislature in 1988 .
clinton tried to replace mcgee with a white democrat of his choice , claims dolly.the case went all the way to the supreme court was ruled 8-0 against clinton and the arkansas officials who challenged mcgee s election.in the 1980s , hispanics were moving into arkansas in greater numbers and clinton began racial profiling against hispanics , she claims.he instituted the racial profiling program three years after his brother , roger clinton went to prison in 1985 for dealing cocaine .
the program was initially part of his anti-drug program , although roger s drug suppliers and buyers were white .
for no good reason , bill and hillary decided to profile hispanics as drug dealers , dolly writes.state troopers now had the authority to stop and search any vehicle remotely suspect of carrying drugs .
specifically , the troopers were to stop and search cars driven by hispanics , especially those cars with texas license plates .
clinton was sued in federal court for his criminal apprehension program that was ruled unconstitutional .
billy threw one of his infamous temper tantrums about the ban on his racial profiling of hispanics and he threatened to renew the racial profiling program in spite of the court s ruling , dolly reports .
via : daily mail