mogadishu ( reuters ) - turkey s swift response to somalia s deadliest truck bombing drew praise from survivors and officials who called ankara their only genuine international partner .
it is an implicit challenge to western backers that spend billions on security but have not , in the view of many somalis ; jumped to help .
whenever there is a problem , turkey helps us .
where are the other countries ?
runs a popular cartoon circulating on somali social media .
within 48 hours of the huge twin explosions that hit mogadishu on saturday , a turkish air ambulance had landed in the battle-scarred capital and picked up dozens of wounded somalis to transport them to turkey for free medical treatment .
its health minister also pitched up with surgeons who set to work at once in hospitals alongside somali doctors and nurses .
ankara has invested heavily in somalia over the past five years , with one eye on rich economic pickings should stability ever return and the other on burnishing president tayyip erdogan s image of turkey as a global promoter of compassionate islam .
turkey is the best friend to somalia and they were the first supporter to us after the blast , said abdiasis ahmed , a jobless university graduate who said four friends had been airlifted out , one with a broken back .
at least 300 people were killed in the blasts and more than 400 injured .
although islamist al shabaab militants were pushed out of mogadishu in 2011 , saturday s attack - which al shabaab has not claimed - shows the dangers still facing the capital .
many somalis contrasted ankara s response with that of the european union , which has a naval force including combat ships equipped with emergency medical systems off mogadishu s shore to deter piracy , but which did not take in casualties .
i ve heard a lot of complaints from somalis saying there s a huge western navy on our shores - why can t those people come to help us ?
, said rashid abdi , a nairobi-based somalia analyst at international crisis group , a think-tank .
a spokesman from the naval force said the force had diverted its nearest vessel , a spanish ship , that delivered equipment and medical supplies once it reached the somali coastline .
he said the maritime area the force covers is vast but the ship arrived mogadishu as quickly as possible .
a tweet from the naval force earlier on wednesday said it was providing vital medical aid for the victims .
senior officials also compared the speed and scale of turkey s assistance with that of somalia s foreign partners , including neighbors kenya and djibouti and the united states and the united nations .
mogadishu mayor thabit mohamed tweeted on monday that he was grateful for turkey s immediate response and relief for victims , compared with a thanks for standing with # mogadishu tweet 24 hours later aimed at the u.s. embassy .
turkey is always first to help us .
they are our only genuine brother , information minister abdirahman omar osman told reuters , recalling a personal visit by erdogan in 2011 , when somalia was in the grip of famine .
their support is visible to everyone .
they build hospitals , they build schools , and that s why they are different than others , he said .
others might give more money but turkey is perceived by the people to be the ones really helping somalia .