beirut ( reuters ) - when iran declared victory over islamic state in syria and iraq , it hailed the strong and pivotal role played by lebanon s hezbollah movement .
the praise , contained in a top general s letter to iran s supreme leader in november , confirmed hezbollan s pre-eminence among shi ite muslim regional groups backed by tehran that are helping the islamic republic exert influence in the middle east .
hezbollah has emerged as a big winner in the turmoil that has swept the arab world since the uprisings of 2011 that toppled governments in several countries .
it has fought in syria and iraq , trained other groups in those countries and inspired other forces such as iran-allied houthis waging a war in yemen .
but its growing strength has contributed to a sharp rise in regional tension , alarming israel , the united states - which designates it as a terrorist organization - and sunni muslim monarchy saudi arabia , iran s regional rival , which accuses hezbollah of having a military role on its doorstep in yemen .
israel fears iran and hezbollah will keep permanent garrisons in syria and has called for action against iranian aggression .
with hezbollah stronger than ever , war with israel is seen by many in the region as inevitable , sooner or later .
hezbollah has gained from the experience of working with armies and managing numerous weapons systems simultaneously - air power , armored vehicles , intelligence , and drones : all specialties of conventional armies , said a commander in a regional alliance fighting in syria .
hezbollah is now a dynamic army , bringing together guerrilla and conventional warfare .
hezbollah s elevated status among iran s regional allies was clear at the funeral this month of hassan soleimani , father of major general qassem soleimani who wrote the letter praising hezbollah s role fighting is in syria and iraq .
hezbollah s delegation , led by sayyed hashem safieddine , a top figure in its clerical leadership , took responsibility for organizing talks on the sidelines of the funeral between the various iranian allies present , an official who attended said .
all the resistance factions were at the condolences .
hezbollah coordinated and directed meetings and discussions , the official said .
hezbollah was set up by the powerful iranian revolutionary guards ( irgc ) to fight israeli forces that invaded lebanon in 1982 and to export iran s shi ite islamist revolution .
it has come a long way from the bekaa valley camps where its fighters first trained .
its fighters spearheaded the november attack on albu kamal , a town near syria s border with iraq , which ended is resistance in its last urban stronghold in the country .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah has said the battle for albu kamal was led by qassem soleimani , commander of the branch of the irgc responsible for operations outside .
an iran-backed iraqi shi ite militia , the popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) , crossed into syria to help during the battle .
hezbollah helped to set up the iraqi pmf at the peak of islamic state s expansion in 2014 .
the attack was of huge symbolic and strategic significance for iran and its regional allies , recreating a land route linking tehran , baghdad , damascus and beirut - often termed the shi ite crescent by iran s regional enemies .
the united states says iran is applying what you might call a hezbollah model to the middle east - in which they want governments to be weak , they want governments to be dependent on iran for support , white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster said in late october .
so , what is most important , not just for the united states but for all nations , is to confront the scourge of hezbollah and to confront the scourge of the iranians and the irgc who sustain hezbollah s operations , he told alhurra , a u.s.-funded arabic-language news network .
syria is where hezbollah has made its biggest impact outside lebanon though its role was kept secret when its fighters first deployed there syria in mid-2012 .
the initial aim was to defend the shrine of sayeda zeinab , a shi ite pilgrimage site near damascus .
but as president bashar al-assad lost ground , hezbollah sent more fighters to aid syrian security forces ill suited to the conflict they faced .
hezbollah s role was crucial in defeating many of the rebels who fought assad with backing from his regional foes , helping him win back the cities of aleppo and homs , and other territory .
its publicly declared role in support of assad has been accompanied by an effort to establish new syrian militias that have fought alongside it , said the commander in the regional alliance fighting in syria .
hezbollah has lost more than 1,500 fighters in syria , including top commanders .
but it has gained military experience , supplementing its know-how in guerrilla tactics with knowledge of conventional warfare thanks to coordination with the syrian and russian armies and the irgc , the commander said .
with iranian support , hezbollah has raised and trained new syrian militias including the national defence forces , which number in the tens of thousands , and a shi ite militia known as the rida force , recruited from shi ite villages , the commander said .
hezbollah has also taken the lead in the information war with a military news service that often reports on battles before syrian state media .
the united states and saudi arabia are worried hezbollah and iran are seeking to replicate their strategy in yemen , by supporting the houthis against a riyadh-led military coalition .
hezbollah denies fighting in yemen , sending weapons to the houthis , or firing rockets at saudi arabia from yemeni territory .
but it does not hide its political support for the houthi cause .
saudi concern over yemen is at the heart of a political crisis that rocked lebanon in november .
lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri s sudden resignation was widely seen as a saudi-orchestrated move to create trouble for hezbollah at home .
shared concerns over hezbollah may have been a motivating factor behind recently declared contacts between saudi arabia and israel .
hezbollah is meanwhile expanding its conventional arsenal in lebanon , where it is part of the government , including buying advanced rocket and missile technology , in a broadening of the threat to the eastern mediterranean and the arabian peninsula , nick rasmussen , the director of the u.s. national counterterrorism center , said in october .
despite newly imposed u.s. sanctions , hezbollah sounds confident .
with is now defeated in iraq , nasrallah has indicated hezbollah could withdraw its men from that front , saying they would return to join any other theater where they are needed .
he says his group will continue to operate wherever it sees fit , repeatedly declaring : we will be where we need to be .