tunis ( reuters ) - the united nations is seeking to marshal international support this week for a new push to break a political stalemate in libya and end the turmoil that followed the country s 2011 uprising .
the world body s libya envoy , ghassan salame , is expected to set out an action plan on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly in new york on wednesday that will propose amending a 2015 peace deal that quickly stalled .
the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) set up under the december 2015 deal has never fully established itself in tripoli , leaving libya with three competing governments aligned with rival armed alliances .
hamstrung by internal splits in its nine-member leadership , or presidency council , the gna has been unable to tackle libya s acute liquidity crisis , save collapsing public services or bring powerful militias to heel .
though oil production has partially recovered and local forces ousted islamic state from their north african stronghold of sirte last year , security vacuums in central and southern libya persist and armed groups control the informal economy .
eastern-based commander khalifa haftar has gradually strengthened his position on the ground , with support from egypt and the united arab emirates .
lauded by allies for his anti-islamist stance , haftar is accused by foes of seeking to reimpose military rule that they fought to overthrow when they toppled veteran ruler muammar gaddafi six years ago .
the most important thing is to convince haftar that a peaceful solution is better than a military one , said karim mezran of the atlantic council , a u.s. think-tank .
you have to convince the egyptians and the emiratis who are his main supporters to reduce that support .
salame , who took up his post in august , is expected to propose reducing the unwieldy gna presidency council to three members and it would then nominate a new transitional government , diplomats and analysts say .
but securing changes to the 2015 deal would need the approval of a barely functional eastern-based parliament .
the european union and the united states have imposed sanctions on the head of that parliament , agila saleh , accusing him of stalling libya s political process .
a delegation from the eastern parliament is expected to start negotiating with members of its tripoli-based rival assembly .
they are under pressure to reach an agreement before dec. 17 , when opponents of the 2015 deal say it expires .
salame must also balance calls for new elections with the need to prepare a legal framework in which they can take place , diplomats say .
before elections you need a timetable to do the necessary preparation ... but at the same time you need a government that can govern and unify the political , economic and social and military institutions of the country and deliver services in that interim period , said a senior western diplomat .
some armed groups have cemented their positions since 2015 , while political factions across libya have become even more splintered .
now the problem is that those factions have fragmented internally , said claudia gazzini , a senior analyst for the international crisis group .
it s even more difficult to solicit representative views .
elections would require an electoral law , and possibly a referendum to endorse a new constitution .
in 2014 , elections were challenged , leading to a major escalation of conflict and the division of libya s key institutions .
of course it s not going to be easy , and once ( salame ) makes the announcement there ll be some who will not see advantage out of it , said the western diplomat .