washington ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s threats to slap steep tariffs on chinese and mexican imports may have won him votes in republican primaries but they would likely backfire , severely disrupting u.s. manufacturers that increasingly depend on global supply chains .
the republican presidential front-runner ’ s campaign pledges to impose 45 percent tariffs on all imports from china and 35 percent on many goods from mexico would spark financial market turmoil and possibly even a recession , former trade negotiators , trade lawyers , economists and business executives told reuters .
“ i don ’ t mind trade wars when we ’ re losing $ 58 billion a year , ” trump said in a feb. 25 debate , referring to the 2015 u.s. goods trade deficit with mexico .
economists dispute the idea the united states is “ losing ” money as the trade deficit is simply the difference between what the united states imports and what it exports to a country .
`` imposing tariffs or putting up trade barriers may sound good , but it will hurt our economy and credibility , '' said wendy cutler , the former acting deputy u.s. trade representative who helped lead u.s. negotiations in the 12-nation trans-pacific partnership trade deal last year .
among those hardest hit would be the u.s. auto industry , which has fully integrated mexico into its production network .
some $ 118 billion worth of vehicles and parts flowed north and south across the border tariff-free last year , according to u.s. commerce department data .
a 35 percent tariff would raise costs for ford motor co 's u.s.-assembled f-series and medium-duty pickup trucks that use mexican-made diesel engines , one of its most profitable vehicle lines .
( graphic on u.s.-mexico auto and parts trade : tmsnrt.rs/1un3wun ) ford ceo mark fields on wednesday defended the company ’ s investment strategy , which includes $ 9 billion for u.s. plants over the next four years , saying , “ we will do what makes sense for the business. ” buyers of fiat chrysler automobiles nv ’ s popular ram 1500 pickup trucks assembled in saltillo , mexico , could see their $ 26,000 base price pushed up by $ 9,000 if the tariff is fully passed on to consumers .
a chrysler spokesman declined to comment on trump ’ s statements .
trump ’ s campaign said in a statement that u.s. trade policy constitutes “ unilateral economic surrender ” and needs complete change because it allows foreign competitors to shut out u.s imports , devalue their currencies and unfairly target u.s. industries .
“ i don ’ t think he does our issue any favors by making it so incredibly jingoistic and bombastic , ” said scott paul , president of the alliance for american manufacturing , a group that allies domestic steelmakers and other manufacturers with the united steelworkers union .
“ but i believe there ’ s widespread agreement ... that there is something amiss with our economic relationship with china and it ’ s past time that our government pushes back a little more forcefully. ” it would take years for u.s. industry to rebuild supply chains devastated by sudden tariff hikes on chinese and mexican goods and any retaliatory measures , said peter petri , a brandeis university professor who has co-authored an influential study on the effects of the tpp trade deal on national income .
even if u.s. firms were able to make such a transition , petri said this would likely result in a permanent annual reduction in u.s. national income of more than $ 100 billion , or 0.8 percent .
trump ’ s tariff plans would effectively violate nafta and revoke u.s. commitments to the world trade organization , say trade lawyers .
beijing and mexico city “ are just going to retaliate on the things that are likely to hurt us most , ” said susan schwab , the u.s. trade representative from 2006 to 2009 in the george w. bush administration .
schwab negotiated major portions of free trade agreements with south korea , colombia and panama .
in 2009 , mexico slapped duties up to 25 percent on more than 90 different u.s. farm goods , from pork to frozen potatoes due to foot-dragging by u.s. lawmakers on allowing mexican truckers on to u.s. roads , as specified under nafta .
the national potato council estimates that u.s. growers lost about $ 70 million in revenue over 31 months , a 50 percent cut from their third-largest export market .
mexico ’ s economy minister , ildefonso guajardo said last week that big tariffs on mexico would return the united states to “ an isolationist , xenophobic and protectionist vision. ” and a full-scale tariff war with china would likely expose the largest u.s. export sectors to steep duties , including aircraft , semiconductors , corn and soybeans , trade lawyers said .
retaliatory tariffs would also hurt growing u.s. vehicle exports to china - at 300,000 a year now equivalent to the annual output of a large assembly plant .
general motors co is now planning to import a buick sport-utility vehicle from a chinese joint venture plant .
a gm spokesman declined to comment .
china ’ s state-run global times newspaper called trump “ big-mouthed , anti traditional and abusively forthright ” in an editorial , but did not directly address his tariff proposals .
a long-running u.s.-china trade dispute over solar panels illustrates how tariffs can sometimes cause unanticipated damage .
in 2012 , the u.s. commerce department slapped anti-dumping duties of up to 78 percent on chinese solar panels after german-owned solarworld ag complained that below-cost chinese imports were hurting its u.s. production .
china responded with its own 57 percent duties against u.s. producers of polycrystalline silicon , the raw material for photovoltaic cells .
this put the brakes on an industry that was fast expanding to meet demand from chinese solar panel makers .
hemlock semiconductor , controlled by dow corning , abandoned construction of a $ 1.5 billion new polysilicon plant in 2014 .
dow corning spokesman jarrod erpelding said hemlock “ serves as a strong example of how trade disputes often have unintended consequences. ” “ this is really stupid , ” said francine sullivan , chief legal officer of rec silicon in moses lake , washington , which halted production this year .
“ the necessity and value in putting on tariffs to protect solar panels in the u.s. was just not thought through .
we ’ ve suffered enormous financial damage as a result of this. ” the trump campaign said measures like tariffs would level the playing field and help bring “ millions of manufacturing jobs back to the united states. ” but durwin “ oodie ” royal , a furnace operator at u.s. steel corp ’ s lone star tubular operations in texas , knows first-hand that such relief can be temporary .
workers at the plant cheered when the united states imposed anti-dumping duties on chinese drilling pipe in 2009 and 2011 .
but the company announced on friday that it would temporarily idle the tube mill , laying off 450 workers as it battles a slump in u.s. oil and gas drilling , a continued global steel glut and “ unfairly traded imports. ” “ when they slap tariffs on one country , the imports just come in from another country , ” said royal , who expects to be among those workers who are idled .
after the tariffs were imposed on china , south korean imports surged , he said .
“ right now , we ’ re just limping along like everybody else . ”