this is awesome !
london mayor sadiq khan was drilled by piers morgan on why khan isn t keeping tabs on the 400 plus known isis radicals living in london : where are they ?
where are they ? how are we letting trained jihadis back into the uk without knowing where they are ?
sadiq khan grilled by susanna reid and piers morgan pic.twitter.com/g7ygwe5mkv the telegraph ( @ telegraph ) june 6 , 2017morgan : where are the 400 jihadis still in london ?
you re the mayor !
where are they ?
mayor khan : i can t cover 400 peoplemorgan : why not ?
why can t you instruct the police , why can t you say everyone of those people who ve come back from a war zone , i want them followed ? mayor khan : they have to prioritizemorgan : what could be a bigger priority than people coming back from a syrian battlefield with the intent to harm british citizens ?
why s it not the number one priority ?
why are these people allowed to just come back in in the first place and then the london mayor does not have a clue to where any of them are ? our latest report on the mayor of london : london s muslim mayor sadiq khan , called on the british government today to cancel their visit with president donald trump .
speaking to channel 4 news , khan felt trump s out-of-context criticisms and continued attacks on twitter meant that the u.k. should not roll out the red carpet for the president as his policies go against everything we stand for .
he added : when you have a special relationship it is no different from when you have got a close mate .
you stand with them in times of adversity but you call them out when they are wrong .
there are many things about which donald trump is wrong .
hollywood reportershouldn t london s government be more concerned with their current mayor s past than of president trump s efforts to unify the world in the fight against extreme islamic terrorism ? in 2016 , the now mayor of london , sadiq khan was branded unfit to be london s mayor after it emerged that he had described moderate muslim groups as uncle toms a notorious racial slur used against black people to suggest that they are subservient to whites.the incendiary claim emerged in a 2009 interview with iranian-backed press tv , when mr khan was minister for community cohesion , in charge of government efforts to stamp out extremism.the revelation is a major blow for mr khan , who has faced a string of claims about his past dealings with muslim extremists during the bitter campaign to succeed boris johnson .
daily mailwatch the 2009 video here : that s not the only video that should make every london citizen be concerned about their mayor s radical views .
a 2002 video has emerged showing sadiq kahn defending convicted islamic terrorists who attempted to revive the islamic liberation party in egypt.the video , via josh caplan of vessel news , shows khan defending terrorists .
at the beginning of the video , muslims in the street shout allahu akbar !
gprare clip from '02 shows then lawyer sadiq khan defending convicted terrorists who attempted to revive the islamic liberation party in egypt pic.twitter.com/gms9niyxmq josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 6 , 2017