this is just a preview of what these terrorists professional agitators , who ve actually met with our community organizer in chief in our white house have planned for this summer .
this is not your grandparents democrat party u.s. attorney general loretta lynch is coordinating with democratic activists to so disrupt the upcoming republican and democratic national conventions that martial law will be declared.that s the stunning discovery revealed in a series of direct messages between three activists.on friday , june 10 , 2016 , someone hacked into the twitter account of # blacklivesmatter ( blm ) leader and former baltimore mayoral candidate deray mckesson .
mckesson later confirmed the hack to the baltimore sun.on june 11 , 2016 , a twitterer who calls himself the saint ( @ thesaintnegro ) tweeted a direct-message conversation on june 10 between kckesson and another blm leader johnetta elzie ( netta ) , in which the two discussed talking with attorney general loretta lynch about plans to bring on martial law by causing chaos at the upcoming republican national convention in cleveland , ohio , and the democratic national convention in philadelphia , pa , so as to keep obama in office.here s the conversation over the course of several days between black activists deray mckesson ( dm ) and johnetta elzie ( je ) , and between mckesson and a white ally named sam ( s ) : je : have you spoken with mrs. lynch [ attorney general loretta lynch ] recently about the plan for the summer and fall leading up to the elections .
dm : we spoke two weeks and they want us to start really pushing how racist trump is now instead of waiting so the others can start getting the protesters ready to shut both conventions down .
dm : if we can get both conventions shut down for messing over bernie and for having racist trump , then get martial law declared so obama can stay in office we will win .
call you soon when i get to my dads so i can use his landline and we can talk more on this .
dm : we have to make sure that we use our voices to keep people disrupting trump all summer and through the fall so martial law can be declared .
s : i wanted to touch base with you about the summer of chaos .
so far we have over 2,000 people bused in from different cities and another 6,000 to 8,000 expected to drive into cleveland for the convention .
s : they will not be ready for the crowds we are bringing and they will blame trump for it , especially if we shut it down .
the gop will have to replace him at that point or we will continue the disruptions nationwide .
dm : i will pass the info along .
good work , sam .
you never let us down .
it s so important we stop trump .
he can not be president .
he will destroy everything we worked so hard for and we can t trust .
dm : today and he [ sam ? ]
confirmed that there will be around 10,000 protesters disrupting the [ republican ] convention .
plans are being made for other cities as well for upcoming trump events .
ads have already been placed looking for people to help .
i know you don t care for them [ white people ] but this is the time we need our white allies doing a lot of the work for us .
they are the ones who listen the best .
je : that will put fear into the gop and the country when they can t have their convention for all their racist supporting trump .
we ve worked too hard and closely with the obama administration to have that racist ass take it all away and hillary .
you know i can t stand those white allies , but yo right this is the best to use them .
they hang on every word you say and will do whatever is asked .
i just hate all that kiss ass they try to do .
like that changes who they are .
dm : we have a lot of white allies volunteering for trump s campaign to pass along information to us before it s made public so we know when rallies are coming up before they are announced .
that way we can plan major disruptions in those cities in advance .
we just have to keep our names out of this and let these [ white ] people do the work for us by pushing how trump s racist ways will destroy .
je : that s all those white people are good for in my eyes .
i couldn t imagine even pretending to like that racist ass trump even to get info on his events .
i ll be glad when we shut his ass down .
dm : with the support we have from mrs. lynch and the help we ve got from sam and others it won t be hard to cause enough .
here are screenshots of the saint s series of tweets : the authorities seem to be taking the plan to disrupt the republican convention seriously.as reported by alice speri for the intercept , june 23 , 2016 , local police and federal agents from the fbi , dhs , and secret service are knocking on the doors of activists and community organizers in cleveland asking about their plans for the republican national convention in july.on june 29 , 2016 , deray mckesson sort of confirmed the plan when he went public with warnings about possible protests at the dnc and rnc , as reported by usa today.in fact , a recent survey showed that as many as 67 % of democrats want obama for a third term.via : dc clothesline