vienna ( reuters ) - hundreds of police sealed off part of central vienna on monday as austria became the only western european country with a far-right party in power , but protests against the swearing-in proved small and largely peaceful .
conservative sebastian kurz , who is just 31 , became chancellor in a coalition with the far right two months after winning a parliamentary election with a hard line on immigration after austria was swept up in europe s refugee crisis in 2015 .
the last time the anti-immigration freedom party ( fpo ) entered government in austria , demonstrations were so big that the cabinet took a tunnel from the chancellery to the swearing-in ceremony at the president s office across the street .
there was no need for that this time as , almost 18 years on and to a significantly more muted reaction , the country once again became an exception among its peers , but in a very different european political landscape .
protests nearby drew only a fraction of the tens of thousands who gathered in 2000 - and criticism from across the continent has also been more restrained .
police wore riot gear and stationed two water cannon at the main protest site .
we will certainly not be going underground to the hofburg , but rather with our heads held high in the street , fpo leader heinz-christian strache said earlier in an interview with regional newspapers .
he was referring to the former imperial palace that houses the president s office .
this time , police cleared a large area around the head of state s office , keeping several thousand protesters about 100 meters ( 110 yards ) away in a nearby square .
chants could be heard as the new ministers from the fpo and the conservative people s party crossed the street quietly to the ceremony .
the coalition deal hands control of much of austria s security apparatus to the fpo , which came third in the election with 26 percent .
any crime committed in austria is one too many , fpo chairman herbert kickl said as he assumed his new position of interior minister .
the fpo was also given the foreign and defense ministries .
the agreement , which made strache vice chancellor , includes plans to cut public spending and taxes and curb benefits for refugees .
i fear a total shift to the right , a hardening of the domestic political climate and incitement against outsiders , said 69-year-old protester wolfgang pechlaner .
police said 1,500 officers were deployed .
people marched peacefully , carrying placards saying nazis out and chanting strache is a fascist .
police put the number of protesters at 5,000-6,000 and said three arrests were made .
organizers put the turnout as high as 10,000 .
by late afternoon , the crowds had dispersed .
the fpo s success made it an outlier in europe in the 1990s when it was led by the late joerg haider .
now it is one of many anti-establishment parties gaining ground in europe .
its allies and sister parties this year entered the german parliament and made the french presidential run-off .
swearing in the government , president alexander van der bellen highlighted safeguards built into the coalition agreement .
we have achieved a clear consensus that ( involvement in ) europe or the european union and continuity in our foreign policy as well as respecting our fundamental rights and freedoms are important fundamental principles , he said .
that was a reference to the coalition having ruled out a referendum on eu membership , and to austria s support for eu sanctions against russia despite the fpo s pro-moscow stance .
the fpo , founded in the 1950s by former nazis , has backed away from calling for a vote on eu membership .
it and kurz s conservatives want the eu to focus on fewer tasks , like securing external borders , and hand more powers back to member states .
france and germany were cautious about future ties with vienna .
we will follow how the eu policy of austria develops , german chancellor angela merkel said .
chancellor ( sebastian ) kurz has the intention of being an active partner in europe , and i am glad of that .
we have lots of problems to solve in europe .
israel was also less than effusive about dealing with a foreign ministry controlled by the fpo , which has courted jewish voters with limited success .
israel will hold working contacts with the operational echelons of the ( austrian ) government departments that are headed by ministers from the freedom party , israel s foreign ministry said in a statement .
israel wishes to underline its total commitment to fighting anti-semitism and commemorating the holocaust .
kurz travels to brussels on tuesday to meet european commission president jean-claude juncker and council president donald tusk .