dresden , germany ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel urged her conservatives on saturday to forge a three-way alliance with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens , her most explicit backing yet for the so-called jamaica coalition .
merkel , who won a fourth term in the sept. 24 election but bled support to the far-right , needs to form a coalition .
the jamaica alliance , named for the black , yellow and green party colors which match jamaica s flag , is her most likely path to a parliamentary majority .
merkel also said a special party meeting should be held to let members of her conservative christian democrats ( cdu ) discuss and vote on any coalition deal .
she told the youth wing of her party in dresden that members should concentrate on talks that lie ahead , first within the conservative bloc between the cdu and its csu sister party from the state of bavaria , and then with the fdp and greens .
aside from internal differences in the conservative camp , especially on migrant policy , the three blocs that would form the jamaica coalition are at odds on energy and climate policy , tax and europe .
yet in a marked shift , merkel made clear there were no other realistic options .
she closed the door on another tie-up with the social democrats ( spd ) , her coalition partners for the past four years , who have announced their intention to go into opposition after slumping to their worst post-war result .
it is clear that the social democrats are not capable of being in government on the national level in the foreseeable future , so i advise us all to waste no time thinking about that any more , said merkel .
if merkel is unable to form a jamaica coalition , the prospects of a minority government or even new elections loom , an unpalatable scenario for investors who are already spooked by months of uncertainty ahead .
merkel s first task in building a coalition comes on sunday when she meets the csu to agree common positions , most notably on migrant policy , before starting exploratory talks with other parties .
the csu , which has served as sister party to the cdu for decades , fears heavy losses in next year s bavaria election and is digging its heels in over a demand for a cap on the number of refugees .
merkel says a cap would breach the constitution which guarantees asylum to politically persecuted people .
merkel , who left germany s borders open to 1 million migrants in 2015 , acknowledged her handling of that crisis had shaken the relationship between the cdu and csu , and took responsibility for election losses because of her decision .
most of the migrants who arrived two years ago entered germany through bavaria .
merkel implored both parties to compromise , saying the parties deal to live with their differences and fight the election together this year had meant they had won .
i will do everything i can to move this forward .. with good will , that is possible , she said .
the conservative youth wing on friday agreed on a dresden declaration calling for change after the heavy election losses .
while it stopped short of the csu s demand for an upper limit on migration , it rejected uncontrolled immigration .
on euro zone reform , merkel sounded skeptical on the idea of a finance minister for the currency zone .
a finance minister will only be appointed if a finance minister is necessary , she said .
the fdp has said it could not agree to a euro zone budget that would help redress economic imbalances within the bloc .