the judge did not rule on the legality of the executive order , nor did she say that others who have not yet arrived in the u.s. can be allowed to proceed .
watch for major hissy fits to be played out in main stream media in an attempt to change public opinion on refugees .
the propaganda machine from the left is working overtime on this.on another note , does the aclu even work for legal americans anymore ?
they jumped into this and proudly proclaimed they had stopped trump after a day of chaos at airports around the world , a federal judge in brooklyn on saturday night stayed deportations under president trump s executive order barring citizens of some muslim countries from entering the united states.u.s .
district judge ann m. donnelly ordered a halt to any removal of refugees or others who hold valid visas to enter the united states meaning those who have arrived at u.s. airports from the seven predominantly muslim countries named under the president s executive order can remain , for now.the judge did not rule on the legality of the executive order , nor did she say that others who have not yet arrived in the u.s. can be allowed to proceed.the ruling came in response to a petition filed by the american civil liberties union on behalf of two iraqis detained at john f. kennedy international airport : hameed khalid darweesh , who was a translator for the u.s. military , and haider alshawi , who was on his way to join his wife , who had worked for a u.s. contractor in iraq.aclu attorneys argued that returning either petitioner could cause irreparable harm by exposing them and their families to retaliation from extremists.the two lead plaintiffs were held by authorities and threatened with deportation , even though both assert a fear of returning to their countries , and if they are not admitted pursuant to their valid entry documents , [ they ] seek an opportunity to pursue asylum , the lawyers argued in the emergency petition .
this ruling preserves the status quo and ensures that people who have been granted permission to be in this country are not illegally removed off u.s. soil , said lee gelernt , deputy director of the aclu s immigrants rights project , who argued the case.the order appears to affect the 100 to 200 people who have been detained in transit to the united states .
while the order will prevent them from being sent home , it is less clear whether they will have to remain in detention while their asylum cases are being decided.via : lat