nice/moscow ( reuters ) - a french judge put russian businessman and lawmaker suleiman kerimov , whose interests the kremlin has pledged to defend , under formal investigation on wednesday after his arrest linked to a french tax evasion case , the prosecutor said .
the investigation , a step that often but not always leads to a trial in the french legal system , was opened on suspicion of aggravated laundering of tax fraud proceeds , a crime that carries a prison sentence of up to 10 years .
the judge decided that kerimov could be released from detention but had to turn in his passport and could not leave the alpes-maritime county nice is in .
he was also ordered to post a bail of five million euros ( $ 5.9 million ) and to check in with police several times per week .
the kremlin said earlier that it would spare no effort to defend the rights of kerimov , a 51-year-old billionaire who was arrested monday night in the french riviera resort city of nice .
shares in polyus , russia s biggest gold producer which is controlled by kerimov s family , fell on the news of his detention .
we will do everything in our power to protect his lawful interests , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told a conference call with reporters .
intensive work is now being undertaken by the foreign ministry .
the prosecution requested that kerimov be kept in custody and a decision by a judge was expected soon .
a second person was also put under formal investigation .
a representative for kerimov in the upper house of russia s parliament , where he sits as a lawmaker , declined to comment on the case on wednesday when contacted by reuters .
polyus also declined to comment .
russia s state-run rossiya 24 tv station , citing an unnamed source , reported that kerimov had denied any guilt .
it was not immediately clear if a lawyer had been hired to represent kerimov in france .
in the lower house of parliament , lawmaker rizvan kurbanov asked the russian foreign ministry to make representations on kerimov s behalf with the french authorities .
we have still not received from the french authorities any explanation of the reasons for the detention of our colleague , kurbanov told parliament .
all this testifies to an unprecedented demarche by the french , he said , adding that he hoped the russian foreign ministry would issue a formal protest .
shares in polyus fell more than 3 percent in early trade in moscow on wednesday but then recovered some ground to close down 1.25 percent .
originally from the mainly muslim russian region of dagestan , kerimov built his lucrative natural resources business through a combination of debt , an appetite for risk , and political connections .
he owned top flight soccer club anzhi makhachkala until he sold it in 2016 .
kerimov s fortune peaked at $ 17.5 billion in 2008 before slumping to just $ 3 billion in 2009 , according to forbes magazine , due to so-called margin calls on his assets triggered by the 2007-2009 global financial crisis .
in march this year , russian president vladimir putin signed a decree giving kerimov the state award for services to the fatherland , second class for his contribution to russian parliamentary life .
french police arrested kerimov at nice airport on monday evening .
a french judicial source said the investigation centered on the purchase of several luxury residences on the french riviera via shell companies , something that could have enabled kerimov to reduce taxes owed to the french state .
( $ 1 = 0.8465 euros )