the irony here isn t lost on us .
hillary is being compared to the president she wanted to take down .
nixon s got nothing on this criminal who wiped her server clean after e-mails were requested from her .
john fund questions the democrat s strategy to support a nixonian type candidate with more baggage than a samsonite factory she s secretive , scandal-plagued , and seemingly inevitable .
ever since hillary clinton s e-mail scandal broke , comparisons between her secretive style and that of richard nixon , whom she ironically pursued as a young lawyer on the house impeachment committee , have been frequent .
but with the revelation that she wiped her private e-mail server clean after her records were requested by the state department last year , the comparisons are becoming more concrete .
washington wags note that even nixon never destroyed the tapes , but hillary has permanently erased her e-mails.exactly what would a hillary presidency look like , and could it plunge the nation into another round of debilitating clinton scandals ?
that s a question democrats should ask themselves before they hand the nomination over to her .
many democrats have reservations about hillary s cozy relations with wall street , her 2002 vote for the iraq war , and the clinton couple s flexibility on issues .
they love winning .
they re both masters of it , hillary maybe even more than bill .
but that s not the same as having a belief system , noted the liberal rolling stone magazine .
but some democrats also want hillary to be challenged on her nixonian penchant for slipperiness and questionable fundraising.a strong primary challenge has provided clues as to how she would run in a general election something democrats should know .
after all , the first clinton presidency was good for the clintons , but not for the democratic party , which lost both houses of congress along with a majority of the nation s governorships and during a time of economic prosperity and peace.read more : national review