london ( reuters ) - calling himself a proud saboteur of the brexit process , britain s liberal democrat leader vince cable on tuesday appealed to opponents in all parties to put aside differences and fight a divorce from the european union .
the fourth-largest party with 12 representatives in the 650-seat parliament , the liberal democrats are hoping to become the lightning rod for any rise in anti-brexit sentiment as prime minister theresa may s government edges closer to leaving the eu in march 2019 .
cable , an economist who was business minister in the 2010 to 2015 conservative-liberal democrat coalition government , has redoubled his party s criticism of the decision to leave the eu since becoming party leader in july .
i want our party to lead the fight against brexit , cable said in his address to the party s autumn conference .
he called for a new referendum , describing brexit as a looming disaster .
in the real world , we have yet to experience the full impact of leaving europe .
but we ve had a taste of what is to come in the fall of the value of the pound , cable said .
sterling fell by as much as 20 percent against the dollar in the months after the june 2016 eu referendum .
it has recovered around half those losses , in part thanks to increasing expectations of an interest rate hike to ease inflation , but the pound is still 9 percent down on pre-brexit levels .
foreign exchange dealers are not point-scoring politicians , they make cool , hard , unsentimental judgments .
quite simply , that brexit britain will be poorer and weaker than if we had decided to stay in europe , cable said .
he also said the government was relying too heavily on its relationship with the united states to help it adjust to life after brexit , criticizing u.s. president donald trump as volatile , and dangerous and an apologist for religious and racial hatred .
opposition to brexit has been emboldened after may failed to win a clear mandate for her exit strategy at a snap election in june .
she lost her majority in parliament but kept power thanks to a deal with a small northern irish party .
cable said britons had a democratic right to a second referendum once the final terms of the brexit deal become clear .
at the end of these tortuous divorce negotiations , the british public must be given a vote on the outcome , he said .
but polls show little sign of a radical shift in public opinion against brexit .
polling firm yougov said a significant proportion of the 48 percent who voted against brexit now thought the government had a duty to leave .
only 27 percent of britons want to reverse the decision , they said .
cable , whose centrist party went from junior coalition partner to near extinction in the 2015 election , made only small gains in the june election having set out the party s stall as the most pro-eu party in british politics .
cable has previously said he expects dissatisfaction with brexit to grow as the negotiations develop , and called for opponents from all parties to come together to oppose the divorce .
we have got to put aside tribal differences and work alongside like-minded people to keep the single market and customs union , so essential for trade and jobs , he said .