beirut ( reuters ) - fighters with the syrian kurdish ypg militia have credited kurdish leader abdullah ocalan with their victory over islamic state in raqqa , in apparent response to u.s. criticism of their praise of a man jailed in turkey for treason .
in a video praising ocalan s ideological power , the ypg fighters rebuffed u.s. criticism of battle celebrations in raqqa last week where the ypg s all-female affiliate , the ypj , unfurled a banner with his face on it .
the banner has become a new focal point for turkey s anger over u.s. support for the ypg , which ankara sees as an extension of ocalan s outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) .
deeply concerned by the rise of kurdish power in northern syria , turkey has opposed the u.s. alliance with the ypg which spearheaded the raqqa campaign under the banner of the multi-ethnic syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) .
on saturday , the u.s. embassy in turkey issued a statement reiterating its misgivings about ocalan , in an apparent response to criticism from the turkish government over the banner .
the pkk is listed among foreign terror organizations .
ocalan has been jailed in turkey for his actions related to the pkk .
he is not a person to be respected , it said .
in the video circulated by the ypg press office on sunday , seven fighters credit ocalan s ideology for the defeat of islamic state at raqqa , which served as the jihadists syrian base of operations and a hub for planning attacks in the west .
all victories , developments and gains made here are results of a great battle based on his opinions and philosophy .
if his ideological power hadn t been with us , we wouldn t know what to do in such a situation , said one of the fighters .
raqqa would never have been rescued from the darkness of recent years , and all other is occupied cities as well .
ocalan s influence runs deep in kurdish-led regions that have emerged in northern syria since its civil war began in 2011 .
steps are under way to establish a new political system based on his ideas about federalism and local democracy .
another of the fighters , who identified himself as a canadian and gave his name as hozan kobane , said the u.s. government position on ocalan was a mistake and a bit behind the times .
the writings and the philosophy and the influence of abdullah ocalan was very , very decisive in motivating the soldiers with an ideology of peace and democracy that allowed this liberation to be possible , he said .
the u.s.-led coalition has said the ocalan banner was not sanctioned by the sdf leadership .
furthermore , the coalition does not approve of the display of divisive symbols and imagery at a time in which we remain focused on the defeat of daesh ( is ) in syria , colonel ryan dillon , the coalition spokesman , said .
ocalan has been in jail in turkey since 1999 on a treason conviction .
more than 40,000 people , most of them kurds , have died in the fighting since the pkk took up arms against the state in 1984 .
the pkk is considered a terrorist organization by the united states , turkey and the european union .