kiev ( reuters ) - ukraine s neighbors have a right to criticize a new ukrainian law banning schools from teaching in minority languages beyond primary school level , a leading european rights watchdog said on friday .
ukraine has sizeable russian , hungarian and romanian minorities but passed the school-language legislation on sept. 5 , angering hungary in particular , which threatened to retaliate by blocking kiev s hopes of eu integration .
kiev has submitted the law for review by the venice commission , a body which rules on rights and democracy disputes in europe and whose decisions member states , which include ukraine , commit to respecting .
in an opinion adopted formally on friday , the commission said it was legitimate for ukraine to address inequalities by helping citizens gain fluency in the state language , ukrainian .
however , the strong domestic and international criticism drawn especially by the provisions reducing the scope of education in minority languages seems justified , it said in a statement .
it said the ambiguous wording of parts of the article 7 legislation raised questions about how the shift to all-ukrainian secondary education would be implemented while safeguarding the rights of ethnic minorities .
as of 2015 , ukraine had 621 schools that taught in russian , 78 in romanian , 68 in hungarian and five in polish , according to education ministry data .
the commission said a provision in the new law to allow some subjects to be taught in official eu languages , such as hungarian , romanian and polish , appeared to discriminate against speakers of russian , the most widely used non-state language .
the less favorable treatment of these ( non-eu ) languages is difficult to justify and therefore raises issues of discrimination , it said .
language is a sensitive issue in ukraine .
after the pro-european maidan uprising in 2014 , the decision to scrap a law allowing some regions to use russian as an official second language fueled anti-ukrainian unrest in the east that escalated into a russia-backed separatist insurgency .
the latest education bill has damaged ukraine s ties with its western neighbors however .
in october , hungarian foreign minister peter szijjarto said the issue had driven relations to their lowest since ukraine won independence following the soviet union s break-up in 1991 .
ukraine said it was willing to discuss minorities concerns and will bear the commission s opinion and recommendations in mind when fine-tuning the law .
in a statement released while the commission was still in session , the education ministry said the watchdog s position was balanced and constructive .
together with national communities , the ministry will work on further developing various approaches on education of minorities , taking into account their educational needs , the statement said .
the main goal is to provide a sufficient level of fluency in both the state and native languages .