washington ( reuters ) - the united states does not aim to impede european trade and business transactions with iran despite president donald trump s decision last week to decertify the 2015 nuclear agreement , secretary of state rex tillerson told the wall street journal .
european union leaders in brussels on thursday highlighted the need to protect their companies and investors dealing with iran from any adverse effects should washington reinstate sanctions against iran , officials said .
the president s been pretty clear that it s not his intent to interfere with business deals that the europeans may have under way with iran , tillerson told the journal in an interview thursday .
he s said it clearly : that s fine .
you guys do what you want to do .
trump last week adopted a harsh new approach to iran by refusing to certify its compliance with the nuclear deal struck with the united states and five other powers including britain , france and germany .
the republican president gave congress 60 days to decide whether to reimpose economic sanctions on iran , lifted under the pact in exchange for scaling down a program the west fears was aimed at building a nuclear bomb , something tehran denies .
trump has criticized the nuclear accord as the worst deal ever and has vowed to withdraw if congress and european allies do not address his problems with it .
tillerson s comments appeared aimed at reassuring the europeans that washington is not trying to pressure them into avoiding business with iran .
we ve been working with the europeans for six months , tillerson said .
they have been brought along with this same thought process .
it doesn t mean that they necessarily agree entirely with it .
... now we will start a more formalized process with them now that the policy s been adopted .
the journal said tillerson would not discuss the multibillion-dollar deals reached by boeing co ( ba.n ) under the 2015 accord .
boeing , which was the first major u.s. company to announce a major business venture with iran , last year agreed to sell dozens of commercial planes to tehran .