washington ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders on sunday took a jab at rival hillary clinton ’ s electability , pointing to the controversy surrounding her use of a private email server as evidence of potential damage to the front-runner ’ s campaign .
“ in terms of what people are going to get slapped with , look at the front pages today in terms of what secretary clinton is getting slapped with , ” sanders said on abc ’ s “ this week , ” referring to clinton ’ s use of a private email server while secretary of state .
“ there is a legal process underway right now , ” he said .
“ and i ’ m not going to politicize that issue. ” sanders , a senator from vermont , had previously refrained from invoking the controversy over clinton ’ s controversial use of a private email account on a private server .
in an early democratic presidential debate , he declared that the american people were “ sick and tired ” of hearing about it .
but the issue has taken on new urgency in recent days as the two fight in an increasingly tight battle for the party ’ s nomination .
on friday , the u.s. state department announced they would withhold seven private email chains from clinton ’ s server , saying they contain top-secret information .
throughout the dispute , clinton has maintained that she did nothing wrong in conducting state department business outside of an official server , arguing that it was permitted and that there was precedent for the practice .
when asked on sunday whether she thought the call to withhold the email exchanges was political , clinton shied away from outwardly accusing anyone but questioned the timing of the decision , which came just before monday ’ s first-in-the-nation nominating contest in iowa .
“ i just have to point out that the timing and some of the leaks that have led up to it are concerning , ” clinton said on abc ’ s “ this week. ” “ the best way to resolve is to do what i asked months ago , release these , let the public see them and let ’ s move on , ” she added .
in iowa , sanders and clinton are locked in a statistical dead heat , with clinton earning 45 percent support of likely caucus-goers compared with 42 percent for sanders , according to a des moines register/bloomberg politics .
nationwide , clinton leads sanders with 51 percent support to 40 percent , according to a jan. 27 reuters/ipsos poll .
( reporting by alana wise ; editing by jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .