santiago ( reuters ) - conservative billionaire sebastian pinera said he would court centrist s on monday in a bid to regain ground in chile s presidential election after a surprise surge by leftists in sunday s first-round vote .
pinera faces a tight dec. 17 runoff against center-left alejandro guillier and will also likely have to deal with opposition to his promised tax breaks in the next left-leaning congress if he triumphs .
a former president who ran chile between 2010 and 2014 , pinera placed first with more than 36 percent of the vote , but his two main left-leaning rivals made a stronger-than-expected showing , garnering a combined 43 percent between them .
and after congressional elections that also took place on sunday , left-of-center lawmakers will outnumber pinera s chile vamos voting bloc in congress , complicating his plans to cut the corporate tax rate and slash red tape in the top copper exporter .
markets that had priced in a new four-year term for pinera sank on monday .
chile s stock index took its biggest daily dive in six years and the peso currency suffered its sharpest depreciation since 2013 .
it s going to be a tight and hard-fought election , pinera told foreign media on monday in capital santiago .
to boost his chances of winning , pinera said he would tap some of the more popular lawmakers-elect in his bloc to help guide his campaign .
we re going to appeal to the center , to the kind of people who want moderation , said pinera .
we re going to listen with humility to what the majority of chileans want .
on monday night , the center-left christian democratic party endorsed guillier without conditions .
its presidential candidate , carolina goic , who was the most moderate of those running to pinera s left , garnered about 2 percent of the vote in sunday s contest .
according to the vote tally , many chileans want change .
a new leftist grouping , frente amplio , which has criticized chile s model of free-market provision of services and promised to tax mining companies and the super-rich , performed much better than expected .
the bloc s presidential candidate , beatriz sanchez , secured 20 percent of votes in the field of eight , double the support predicted by pollster cep .
the block won its first senate seat and around 20 seats in the lower house of congress .
no single bloc will control congress .
a pinera victory in december was no longer a sure thing , said election forecaster and political scientist kenneth bunker .
it s all up in the air right now , bunker said .
we were just dumbfounded when the results started to come in .
in another bad sign for pinera , chileans went to polls in bigger numbers than expected on sunday .
analysts say a low voter turnout favors pinera because his supporters tend to be better at showing up to vote .
chile , a country of 17 million people with a $ 250 billion economy , has been one of latin america s most business-friendly and stable nations since its transition to democracy in 1990 .
its economy slowed , however , to an average growth rate of 1.8 percent during outgoing president michelle bachelet s term , with lower copper prices dragging on government revenue .
guillier has promised to deepen bachelet s policies , from expanded access to free university education to protections for striking unions , without departing from chile s free-market economic model .
he has a tricky task ahead to attract the support of chile s wide-ranging left-of-center voters , in part because he is seen by many as a continuation of bachelet s unpopular government .
having slammed pinera as a step backward for chile , sanchez , a 46-year-old former radio journalist , could rally her supporters to vote for guillier , but likely in exchange for policy concessions .
if mr guillier wants us to vote for him , he s going to have to give in to beatriz s proposals , sanchez supporter and salesman hector mino said .
he cited sanchez plan to wipe out student debt and overhaul the public-private pension system to ensure bigger payouts as possible offerings .
but a too-sharp left turn could push more centrist s to pinera .
as left-leaning blocs weighed possible alliances , far-right jose antonio kast threw his weight behind pinera .
kast won nearly 8 percent of votes and urged the chileans who cast them to vote for pinera in the runoff .
we re not going to demand anything in return , said kast , who defended deceased chilean dictator augusto pinochet during the campaign .