tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe s ruling coalition is on track for a big win in sunday s general election - even though almost half the country s voters don t want him to keep his job , a media survey showed on monday .
behind that paradox is a fizzling challenge by an upstart party led by tokyo governor yuriko koike , a divided opposition and jitters about a volatile north korea that incline wary voters toward a safe pair of hands , political analysts said .
abe s liberal democratic party ( ldp ) is set to win between 281 to 303 seats in the 465-member lower house , while its junior coalition partner the komeito is on track to take 30-33 seats , the mainichi newspaper said , based on an oct. 13-15 survey .
that would put the ruling bloc on track to maintain the two-third s super majority it held before the chamber was dissolved for the snap election .
that means abe s grip on his post is all but assured when parliament convenes to elect a premier after sunday s poll .
the mainichi survey , however , showed 47 percent of voters would prefer not to see abe stay in his post .
abe took office nearly five years ago promising to bolster defense and boost growth with his abenomics strategy .
thirty-seven percent want him to remain .
abe is not popular , but his party is trusted by enough voters to win big if only because the new parties are untested and have not generated excitement , said jeffrey kingston , director of asian studies at temple university japan .
an electoral system where 289 seats are from single-member districts where the candidate with a plurality of votes wins and others get no representation at all also means a split opposition benefits abe s ldp .
the rest of the chamber s seats are from proportional representation blocs .
koike s fledgling party of hope , which the former ldp lawmaker launched last month as a reformist , conservative alternative to the ldp , is likely to win between 42-54 seats .
the party of hope absorbed a big chunk of the failed main opposition democratic party .
but an early burst of voter enthusiasm seems to have dissipated after koike declined to run for a lower house seat or say whom her party would back as a candidate for premier .
the party s platform also shares much of abe s hawkish security agenda , but differs by promising to freeze a planned sales tax hike and to exit nuclear power by 2030 .
a smaller constitutional democratic party of japan ( cdpj ) , formed by liberal members from the democratic party , was set to win between 45-49 seats , the mainichi said - raising the possibility that it might become the leading opposition group .
the cdpj crept up from nowhere , kingston said .
it is clear there are a lot of people who feel left by the wayside by abenomics .
the mainichi forecasts were based on responses from 73,087 voters nationwide .