taipei ( reuters ) - taiwan s new premier , william lai , vowed on friday to work towards luring greater investment to the self-ruled island , while sticking to the policies of the ruling democratic progressive party .
lai , formerly the mayor of the southwestern city of tainan , made the remarks at a cabinet transition ceremony following the resignation this week of his predecessor , lin chuan ..
the cabinet reshuffle , at a time of low public approval ratings for president tsai ing-wen , will give the government an opportunity to push through legislation with less resistance .
ratings for tsai shrank to below 30 percent by august , a survey by a private foundation showed , down from nearly 70 percent soon after her landslide election victory in 2016 .
my main responsibility is to build the country , expand the economy and look after the people , said lai , adding that his cabinet would press on with reforms in areas ranging from the energy industry to labor , pensions and tax , while eliminating obstacles for investment .
he added , these will have a pragmatic strategy and will be solved in a steadfast way .
dissatisfaction with labor and pension reforms are seen to have weighed on tsai s ratings , sparking occasional protests .
the reshuffle brought several new key appointments , though most of the other ministry-level positions stayed unchanged .
the financial supervisory commission gets a new chief , wellington koo , while acting economics minister shen jong-chin was confirmed in the role .
a new vice premier and secretary-general were also appointed to the cabinet , or executive yuan .
lai , a member of tsai s independence-leaning party , won a landslide reelection in 2014 in tainan , home to the plants of taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co ( tsmc ) and other technology firms .
the harvard-educated lai is expected to take a cautious stance in the transition , as shown by his modest personnel changes , analysts say .
lai brings an effective administrative style , and will seek to keep the agenda on track , said edward yang , an associate professor at national taiwan normal university .
his popular style also contrasts with that of lin , who was seen as a less effective communicator , yang added .
the dpp is striving to shore up its popularity ahead of local elections next year in which it faces off against its main rival , the china-friendly kuomintang ( kmt ) party .
local election results are seen as a harbinger for the presidential election in 2020 .