paris ( reuters ) - france s efforts to combat terrorism and prevent further attacks on its soil are generating so much work for investigators and law courts that further staffing will be needed to keep up , intelligence and justice officials say .
the warning comes at a time when president emmanuel macron is trying to curb public spending while ensuring security is not compromised , a balancing act that has already prompted an army commander to resign over budget cuts .
the workload of the anti-terrorism justice system has risen ten-fold in the past five years , ministry figures show , with a sharp increase since 2014 , when followers of the islamic state group specifically called for attacks targeting the french .
more than 240 people have been killed in the past three years in france , including 130 by a group of is-inspired gunmen and suicide bombers in paris in november 2015 .
statistics collected by the justice services underscore the scale of the judicial challenge .
in all of 2012 , the year islamist militant mohammad merah killed three jewish schoolchildren and three soldiers near toulouse - an attack now regarded as a turning point , there were 10 cases of suspected terrorist activity .
in 2016 , 240 new terrorism-related cases were opened , while in the first three months of 2017 a further 130 were added .
the total workload as of oct. 9 was 621 cases , of which 452 were either early-stage or full inquiries into suspected islamist-militant activity , according to justice officials .
the number of counter-terrorist investigators at the paris prosecutor s office has doubled since 2012 , but still stands at only 14 .
alongside them , the number of so-called investigating magistrates and judges dedicated to counter-terrorism has risen to 11 from 7-8 , with another beginning next year .
we are not at breaking point , but the question now is how long it can last like that , said pascal gastineau , head of the french association of investigating magistrates .
the workload is piling up in the courts as france cracks down on those who leave for iraq and syria to join is , a number estimated at between 1,800 and 2,000 .
in the past , terrorism-related convictions meant around 10 years in prison .
now many of those who finance , recruit , join or return from the wars in syria and iraq face 20 years in jail .
but convictions and the heavier sentences in most cases now require trial by jury of professional magistrates , a slow process that compounds the backlog .
for affairs dating to 2016 , a trial will not take place before 2018-2019 , said one judge , who argues for some form of streamlining to process cases more rapidly .