( reuters ) - while many miami hospitals are shutting down as hurricane irma bears down on florida , some are offering shelter to their pregnant patients , bracing for the increase in births that often accompanies these large storms .
at least three of the city s hospitals have plans in place to care for women with advanced or high-risk pregnancies .
they could be busy .
when houston was hit by hurricane harvey , the number of women who gave birth spiked .
according to a memorial hermann health system representative , at least five of the not-for-profit system s 11 houston-area hospitals with labor and delivery units reported increases in the number of deliveries during hurricane harvey .
in three , deliveries doubled .
the reason may have something to do with a drop in barometric pressure that accompanies a hurricane .
a 2007 study published in the archives of gynecology and obstetrics noted a causal relationship between low barometric pressure and spontaneous delivery .
but overall , the evidence is inconclusive , said dr. shannon clark , an associate professor in the division of maternal fetal medicine at university of texas medical branch in galveston , on the gulf of mexico .
there s some studies that show an association and some that don t. it s kind of mixed , clark said in a telephone interview .
even so , she said , it s still worth it to forewarn pregnant women in areas that are going to get hit that there could be a potential complication .
in miami , jackson health system alerted women who are at least 34 weeks pregnant or who have a high-risk pregnancy that they may take shelter in one of three of its hospitals , as long as they have registered with the hospital in advance .
these women are allowed to bring in one guest , but no pets .
tania leets , a spokeswoman for the public health system which serves miami-dade county , said they offered the same service last year during hurricane matthew .
baptist health south florida offers shelter to women in miami who are at least 36 weeks pregnant or who have a high-risk pregnancy in one of its four area hospitals .
a pregnant woman and one adult companion can set up camp in a waiting room area ; those who come must bring their own food , water and bedding .
the shelter opens at 8 a.m. on saturday and closes when the storm has passed , baptist health south said in a statement .
mount sinai medical center in miami beach will likewise shelter women who are at least 36 weeks pregnant or those with high-risk pregnancies , according to a statement on its website .
at memorial hermann greater heights hospital in houston , deliveries started to soar two days before hurricane harvey arrived , requiring five managers to help with patient care .
we all know in this business - full moons and storms are a problem , said kim kendall , director of the hospital s family birth center .
staff made an effort to close the shades , redirect the conversation and focus on the delivery .
we tried to maximize the experience and minimize the hurricane , said kendall .