vienna ( reuters ) - no party is likely to obtain a majority of votes in austria s parliamentary election on oct. 15 .
a coalition between two of the three biggest parties the conservative people s party ( ovp ) , the social democrats ( spo ) and the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) will probably be needed to govern .
below is a breakdown of polling , positions and comments the parties have made about potential coalitions .
since 31-year-old foreign minister sebastian kurz took over as leader of the ovp in may , his party has consistently attracted support in polls of around 33 percent on a platform dominated by tough rhetoric on immigration .
that has dislodged the freedom party from the top position in polls it reached in the aftermath of the refugee influx of 2015 and 2016 .
the freedom party is competing with chancellor christian kern s social democrats for second place , both at around a quarter of votes in most polls .
polls put the greens , the liberal neos and a new party founded by former greens lawmaker peter pilz all on around 5 percent of the vote , above the 4-percent threshold for entering parliament .
ovp leader kurz called an end to the centrist coalition with the social democrats , triggering a snap parliamentary election .
he has not ruled out any party as a potential coalition partner and has said he will hold talks with all parties if his party comes first .
kurz has avoided setting conditions before the vote apart from saying that any potential partner must be pro-european and not merely stand by europe , but also have the desire to shape europe .
his plans on cutting immigration , reducing the corporation tax burden and streamlining the eu overlap with the freedom party s. the ovp wants a slimmer eu that focuses on its core competences such as trade and securing its external borders .
in contrast to the fpo , however , kurz is in favor of more european defense cooperation , which he says would not threaten austria s neutrality .
the fpo says it would only go into a coalition if it were given control of the interior ministry .
it also would like to secure the post of foreign minister , but has not made that a fixed condition .
fpo leader heinz-christian strache has said the fpo will not enter a coalition with the spo until a full spo party conference has lifted the ban on coalitions with his party .
the decision to lift the ban was taken by the spo party leadership .
the fpo has also said it would only enter a coalition that results in more referendums or direct democracy , which is part of the ovp program .
strache has rowed back from the fpo s former stark euroskepticism , but he has called the idea of a european army a red line .
he says austria is at the heart of europe but also wants a referendum on austria s future in the eu if it hands more powers to brussels or if turkey accedes to the bloc .
strache has also ruled out that the fpo will sign up to a coalition headed by the third-placed party if it comes second , as it did in 2000 when it became a junior partner to the ovp .
under chancellor christian kern , the spo has lifted self-imposed ban on national coalitions with the freedom party ( the two parties already govern together in burgenland , one of austria s nine provinces ) .
the ban was replaced by a values compass , which makes principles such as a pro-european position and gender equality pre-conditions for cooperation .
kern has also said the fpo must leave the far-right faction in the european parliament , which france s national front is also part of , if it wants to join a coalition with the social democrats .
in a recent debate with strache , kern said the two parties are still worlds apart .
the social democrats favor closer european integration on issues like economic and monetary union and social policy .