flashback : watch the video below to see kudlow mock republicans for their strong defense of closing our borders in his interview with gang of eight member , jeff flake ( r-az ) two years ago .
the president had his last chance last sunday night .
and he didn t do it .
he is not a wartime commander in chief .
in fact , he is not a commander in chief .
a hardline shift from an immigration reformer.i know this is not my usual position .
but this is a war .
therefore i have come to believe there should be no immigration or visa waivers until the u.s. adopts a completely new system to stop radical islamic terrorists from entering the country .
a wartime lockdown .
and a big change in my thinking.isis and related islamic terrorists are already here .
more are coming .
we must stop them.until fbi director james comey gives us the green light , i say seal the borders.here s what we must do : completely reform the vetting process for immigrants and foreign visitors .
change the screening process .
come up with a new visa-application review process .
stop this nonsense of marriage-visa fraud .
and in the meantime , seal the borders .
i agree with jessica vaughn , director of policy studies at the center for immigration studies , who argued many of these points in excellent detail on the national review website on friday.again , why am i taking this hardline position ?
in the past , i have been an immigration reformer , not a restrictionist .
but we are at war .
that changes everything.watch kudlow demean conservative position on border control and immigration reform to rino , rep. jeff flake ( r-az ) : let me emphasize that my support for wartime immigration restrictions is not based on religion .
i think donald trump made a big mistake here .
instead , i agree with this rupert murdoch tweet : complete refugee pause to fix vetting makes sense .
fortunately , the republican house voted to tighten restrictions on travel to the u.s. by citizens of 38 nations who presently enter our country without a visa .
this covers 20 million visitors a year who are allowed to stay 90 days .
and of course this system is abused , big time.but i say seal the borders .
people hoping to relocate to the u.s. from syria , iraq , and anywhere in the middle east , and people coming here from france , england , sweden , and wherever will be upset , at least for a while .
there may be some unfairness to this .
but i don t care .
wars breed unfairness , just as they breed collateral damage.we may set back tourism .
we may anger saudi princes whose kids are in american schools .
but so be it .
we need a wartime footing if we are going to protect the american homeland.of course , president obama doesn t get it .
he never will .
already we should have led nato into a declaration of war against isis .
already we should have pushed a resolution of war against isis through the un security council .
already we should have convened meetings with our mideast allies to formally declare war against isis .
already the u.s. congress should have issued a formal declaration of war against isis.the president had his last chance last sunday night .
and he didn t do it .
he is not a wartime commander in chief .
in fact , he is not a commander in chief.as i have written before , if the u.s. wants to destroy isis , it can destroy isis .
we won t end terrorism around the world .
but we can destroy isis in syria and iraq .
prominent generals are telling us that .
prominent national security strategists are telling us that.so let s do it.if there is to be a true wartime effort to destroy isis , our leaders must communicate a sense of urgency and energy .
define the clear goal : the destruction of isis .
speak to that goal constantly .
take steps at home and abroad to back up that goal .
lead the country .
rally the country.republican and democratic commanders in chief have done this in the past .
we must do it again.i don t believe a visa or immigration lockdown here in the u.s. will solve the islamic terrorist threat .
many other steps must be taken .
and i am not suggesting this in the name of religious profiling .
instead , i am hardening my position on immigration because we are at war and i fear we may be losing this war.my shift in thinking comes from a deep desire to strengthen homeland security .
hopefully an immigration freeze will not be in place for very long .
but for now i believe we must do it .
( by the way , keeping america safe is a prerequisite for growth .
) and let me add , as i have in the past , if the u.s. has the will , the urgency , and the energy to destroy isis , then we will destroy isis.watch kudlow s defense of immigration in this video only one year ago .
my , what a difference a year makes : via : breitbart news