new york ( reuters ) - a second federal judge has taken the rare step of allowing a group suing for records from hillary clinton ’ s time as u.s. secretary of state to seek sworn testimony from officials , saying there was “ evidence of government wrong-doing and bad faith. ” the language in judge royce lamberth ’ s order undercut the democratic presidential contender ’ s assertion she was allowed to set up a private email server in her home for her work as the country ’ s top diplomat and that the arrangement was not particularly unusual .
he described clinton ’ s email arrangement as “ extraordinary ” in his order filed on tuesday in federal district court in washington .
referring to the state department , clinton and clinton ’ s aides , he said there had been “ constantly shifting admissions by the government and the former government officials. ” spokesmen for clinton did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
the case is a civil matter , but the order adds to the legal uncertainty that has overshadowed clinton ’ s campaign to be the democratic nominee in the nov. 8 presidential election .
the fbi is also conducting a criminal inquiry into the arrangement after it emerged that classified government secrets ended up in clinton ’ s unsecured email account .
clinton has said she does not think she will be charged with a crime .
lamberth ’ s order granted the request by judicial watch , a conservative watchdog group suing the department under open records laws , to gather evidence , including sworn testimony .
the group has filed several lawsuits , including one seeking records about the 2012 attack in benghazi , libya , that killed u.s .
ambassador christopher stevens and three other americans .
“ where there is evidence of government wrong-doing and bad faith , as here , limited discovery is appropriate , even though it is exceedingly rare in foia ( freedom-of-information ) cases , ” lamberth noted in his order .
the government is normally given the benefit of the doubt that it properly searched and produced records .
since the email arrangement came to public knowledge a year ago , the state department has found itself defending clinton in scores of lawsuits from groups , individuals and news outlets who say they were wrongly denied access to clinton ’ s federal records .
clinton left the department in 2013 , but did not return her email records to the government until nearly two years later .
last month , judge emmet sullivan , who is overseeing a separate judicial watch lawsuit over other clinton-related records , allowed a similar motion for discovery .
( story refiles to fix date of presidential election , paragraph 6 . )