so far , this video has over 530,000 views .
does that make the content legitimate ?
certainly not .
but the premise is certainly not that far-fetched , considering our government has been bringing mostly muslim refugees to america for over 35 years through the very secretive us state department refugee resettlement program.a large number of refugees that have been strategically placed throughout the u.s. are muslims .
so why are catholic and lutheran charities the # 1 and # 2 largest benefactors of our taxpayer dollars when it comes to delivering muslims from countries who hate us ? i placed a call to our local catholic charity office where the director assured me over the phone that they aren t selective about who comes here .
i told her , that as a catholic , i was more concerned about helping the christians who are being left behind to be slaughtered by muslims than bringing muslims to america .
she assured me there really is no difference .
i asked her what the rate of conversion is once they bring tens of thousands of muslims to our local area in michigan ?
silence.bill o reilly seems genuinely shocked to find out that our very own state department has been quietly dumping off refugees in new jersey with no approval from the state or its citizens.watch here : of the approximately 2,000 syrian refugees who have come to the united states over the past several years , an estimated 97 percent are muslim.in fy 2015 , the state department , through the bureau of population , refugees and migration and the office of refugee resettlement , spent more than $ 1 billion on these programs , which settled international refugees vetted by the united nations high commission on international refugees in all 50 states and the district of columbia .
the federal government spent hundreds of millions of dollars more than that on refugees , however .
the department of health and human services also provided a number of entitlements to these refugees.much of this $ 1 billion in annual revenue goes to voluntary agencies ( volags ) , several of which are christian non-profits , such as catholic charities , lutheran immigration and refugee service , world relief corporation , church world service , and domestic and foreign missionary service of the episcopal church of the usa .
( also referred to as episcopal migration ministries ) , who are contracted on behalf of the government to help these refugees get settled in their new homes in america.five of the top nine volags are christian non-profits .
the other four are hebrew immigrant aid society , international rescue committee , us committee for refugees and immigrants , and the ethiopian community development council.after providing three to four months of resettlement services to these refugees , having been well compensated for their assistance services , these christian non-profit volags stop providing services and are not required to keep track of the refugees location within the united states.as ann corcoran wrote recently at refugee resettlement watch , the arrangement benefits the volags but provides little comfort to americans worried about the national security implications of bringing in so many unvetted refugees : refugee resettlement is profitable to the organizations involved in it .
they receive money from the federal government for each refugee they bring over .
they have almost no real responsibilities for these refugees .
after 4 months the sponsoring organization is not even required to know where the refugee lives.a good percentage of the revenues of these christian non-profit organizations , many of which were originally established to provide charitable services to the poor already within local american communities , now comes from their work as subcontractors to the federal government to relocate these foreign , often muslim , refugees.in effect , critics argue , these volags have become agents of the federal government whose new mission is to import terrorism to the united states under the false flag of christian compassion.as refugee resettlement watch reported , there are multiple ways for these volags to generate revenue from this program : a .
$ 1,850 per refugee ( including children ) from the state department.b .
up to $ 2,200 for each refugee by participating in a u.s. dhhs program known as matching grant .
to get the $ 2,200 , the volag need only show it spent $ 200 and gave away $ 800 worth of donated clothes , furniture , or cars.c .
the volag pockets 25 percent of every transportation loan it collects from refugees it sponsors .d .
all volag expenses and overhead in the washington , dc hq are paid by the u.s. government.e .
for their refugee programs , volags collect money from all federal grant programs marriage initiative , faith-based , ownership society etc. , as well as from various state and local grants.the program is so lucrative that in some towns the catholic church has lessened support for traditional charity works to put more effort into resettlement .
it uses collection offerings to promote the refugee resettlement program.despite claims that these muslim refugees have been vetted to keep out terrorists , numerous reports , including those by the department of homeland security and fbi , indicate that this process is flawed , especially for refugees from countries like syria , where virtually no data bases to perform background checks exist.of the approximately 2,000 syrian refugees who have come to the united states over the past several years , an estimated 97 percent are muslim.president obama wants to bring in an additional 10,000 syrian refugees to the united states in fy 2016 ( which ends september 30 , 2016 ) .
at least 26 governors and the vast majority of americans oppose this plan on national security grounds , but the president is doubling down .