vatican city ( reuters ) - the former president of a vatican-owned hospital in rome on saturday was convicted of abuse of office for diverting nearly half a million dollars of funds to renovate a top cardinal s luxury apartment .
the vatican court , a three-judge panel , gave giuseppe profiti a one-year suspended sentence .
the prosecution had asked for three years for the former head of the prestigious bambino gesu hospital .
it also reduced the seriousness of the charge against profiti to abuse of office from the initial embezzlement .
massimo spina , the hospital s treasurer , was acquitted .
testimony at the trial , which began in july in the city-state s courtroom , again exposed lack of transparency in the financial handling of vatican assets in italy , where it owns numerous institutions and much real estate .
profiti and spina were charged with spending 422,000 euros ( $ 481,000 ) in 2013 and 2014 on refurbishing the large vatican retirement home of cardinal tarcisio bertone , the holy see s former number two .
his retirement apartment , which has a huge terrace and breath-taking view of the dome of st. peter s basilica , has become a symbol of the difficulty of the frugal-minded pope s efforts to rein in the luxury some church leaders still enjoy .
bertone , 82 , was the vatican secretary of state , effectively the deputy pope , for most of the pontificate of former pope benedict and was one of the most powerful men in the roman catholic church .
he was removed from office in 2013 , eight months after the election of francis .
the renovation started a few weeks later on the spacious property , which is next door to the vatican guest house where the pope lives in a modest suite .
bertone hired the construction firm of a friend to do the reconstruction work , bypassing the customary bidding process , and made a down payment with his own money .
the company eventually went bankrupt but the foundation that runs the hospital sent 422,000 euros to a london-based company affiliated with the construction firm .
neither bertone nor the owner of the construction company were called to testify at the trial .
when the vatican confirmed last year that profiti and spina were under investigation , a lawyer for bertone said the cardinal had never asked for or authorized payment for the restoration work from hospital funds .
profiti said the hospital used some of its funds to renovate bertone s apartment because the cardinal had agreed that it could be used for fundraising .
after the scandal was first revealed in a book , bertone gave 150,000 euros of his own money to the bambino gesu to make amends for damage done to the hospital s image .