london ( reuters ) - british police and spy agencies have not found evidence that last week s attack on a london commuter train was ordered or organized by a recognized militant group , according to u.s. and british government sources familiar with the investigation .
counter-terrorism officers have arrested two men after a crude homemade bomb sent flames shooting through a packed carriage at west london s parsons green underground station during the friday morning rush hour , injuring 30 people although it apparently failed to detonate fully .
following the attack , amaq , the news agency of the islamic state militant group , claimed responsibility for the bombing .
on monday , five u.s. and british government sources said it was possible that the attack was somehow inspired by islamic state via its extensive array of internet-based propaganda and instruction materials .
but they said no evidence had emerged of any direct connection between the attack and is , or any other organized militant group or faction .
it doesn t sound to me like a centrally directed plot , one official said .
british police are questioning an 18-year-old man arrested in the departure lounge of the port of dover on saturday and another suspect , 21 , detained hours later in the west london suburb of hounslow .
officers are also conducting a major search of a property in sunbury-on-thames , a town just outside london and about four miles ( six km ) from hounslow .
local media said the home belongs to a couple who have fostered hundreds of children , including refugees .
the leader of the local authority was quoted as saying the 18-year-old was an iraqi who had come to britain as an orphan aged 15 .
the 21-year-old is a syrian national who had lived in britain for a number of years , according to the media reports .
british police have declined to confirm the identities of those being questioned , which is common practice .
interior minister amber rudd said on sunday the two arrests suggested it was not a lone-wolf attack but there was no evidence is was involved .
friday s bombing was the fifth major attack regarded by authorities as a terrorist incident in britain this year .
islamic state militants have claimed credit for other previous attacks , including two in london and one at a concert by american singer ariana grande in manchester .
british officials have said there is scant evidence the group orchestrated those attacks , but those responsible might have been radicalized by is online propaganda .