buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina revoked the credentials of some activists who had been accredited by the world trade organization ( wto ) to attend its ministerial meeting taking place in buenos aires next month , the foreign ministry and civil society groups said on thursday .
the 63 activists who had their accreditations rescinded were largely affiliated with the our world is not for sale network , said organizer deborah james .
the group opposes corporate globalization and has staged protests at previous wto meetings .
a spokeswoman for argentina s foreign ministry told reuters some individuals were not allowed to attend because they were determined to be more disruptive than constructive .
wto meetings often attract protests by anti-globalization groups , but they have remained largely peaceful since riots broke out at the 1999 meeting in seattle .
we ve never had this happen before .
it s totally unprecedented , james , who is also director of international programs at the left-leaning center for economic and policy research , said by telephone from washington , d.c .
the group posted a public letter including an email the wto sent to certain participants on wednesday discouraging them from traveling to argentina for the dec. 10-13 meeting to avoid being turned away at the airport .
the geneva-based wto did not immediately respond to request for comment after normal business hours .
the financial times on thursday quoted wto spokesman keith rockwell saying the wto had asked the argentine government to reverse the decision .
argentina s president mauricio macri has promoted free-trade policies since taking office in december 2015 , and argentina will host global events as chair of the g20 group of major economies next year .
during protests that coincided with a world economic forum event in buenos aires earlier this year , security forces used water cannons and tear gas to control picketers who had blocked a highway .
james said it was unusual for a government that had agreed to host an international gathering to deny entry to people who were accredited by the host organization .
the activists represented 20 different groups , including friends of the earth international and global justice now .
nearly 500 civil society groups registered .
james said she could not tell why some members were rejected and others not , and said she planned to attend .
they re not blacklisting me , and i m the organizer .