vienna ( reuters ) - austria s president gave the green light to conservative leader sebastian kurz on friday to form a government , but kurz gave little away about his coalition plans , leaving a tie-up with the far right the most likely outcome .
kurz s people s party ( ovp ) secured 31.5 percent of the vote in sunday s parliamentary election , winning by a clear margin but falling well short of the majority needed to control parliament in the affluent alpine republic .
i would like to build a government that has the courage and determination to bring real change to austria , kurz , 31 , told reporters after meeting president alexander van der bellen , who will oversee the process .
kurz campaigned on a platform that combined a hard line on immigration similar to that of the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) with traditional conservative principles like slimming down the state and cutting taxes .
he said he would start by holding talks with all parties in parliament although only two of them , the social democrats ( spo ) and fpo , have enough seats to give him a majority if they go into coalition with the ovp .
i will now get straight to work and hold the first discussions , definitely in the coming days , and possibly even today , kurz said , adding that after those initial discussions he might launch formal coalition talks with one party .
kurz went to brussels on thursday to assure european union leaders of his support , allaying concerns that austria country would become a dissonant voice in the eu with the anti-immigrant far right likely to enter its government .
it became clear after neighboring germany s election last month that it was headed towards a three-way jamaica coalition - so called because the parties colors match that country s flag .
austria s political future could be colorful too .
using the same principle and some creative licence , austria s next government could be dubbed botswana or islamic state .
two other options , haiti and albania , appear to be off the table , at least for the time being .
in austria as in germany , each party is traditionally associated with a color - black for kurz s ovp , red for the centre-left spo and blue for the far-right fpo .
botswana ( black and blue ) remains the most likely option , given that kurz and the head of the social democrats , outgoing chancellor christian kern , have often clashed and kurz called an end to their coalition , forcing sunday s snap election .
kurz has said he would prefer to form a stable coalition but not ruled out a minority , monochrome government ( islamic state ) .
he has accused his rivals of holding talks on an spo-fpo , red-blue coalition ( haiti ) .
but fpo leader heinz-christian strache poured cold water on the idea of a coalition of losers in an interview with tabloid oesterreich .
asked if kern had been voted out as chancellor , strache said : in my opinion , yes .
he added that people had voted for change and kurz had a mandate to try and form a government .
if he were to invite us ( to hold coalition talks ) , we would accept the invitation , he said , adding that in such a case the fpo would not hold parallel talks with the spo .
strache hosted kurz at his home for dinner this week , their first one-on-one meeting , he said .
the chances of a red-blue alliance are a thousandth of a thousandth , kern told reporters at an eu summit in brussels , but he added that his party was still open to talks .
a black-red coalition ( albania ) has not been completely ruled out .
kurz has hinted at being prepared to consider it if kern is replaced as leader by defense minister hans peter doskozil .
strache also focused his criticism on kern rather than the spo as a whole .