berlin ( reuters ) - during germany s election campaign , the social democrats ( spd ) rallied behind french president emmanuel macron s ideas for reform of the euro zone , including the creation of a budget , finance minister and separate parliament for the currency bloc .
but as momentum builds for another grand coalition between the spd and chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , doubts are rising about whether the center-left party will make european reform a top priority in looming negotiations .
several senior spd officials , some speaking on condition of anonymity , said that while the party continued to support macron s ideas , domestic reforms of health insurance , pensions and the labor market were likely to play a more prominent role in eventual talks .
europe is not a theme where we can simply push things through .
we need to strive for a consensus , said johannes kahrs , a budget expert for the spd in parliament and leader of the conservative seeheimer kreis wing of the party .
it would be nice if the conservatives went along with the idea of a budget for the euro zone , but they need to want it .
it would make no sense to try to bully them into this .
the comments may come as a disappointment to macron , who called spd leader martin schulz after the collapse of three-way talks between merkel s conservatives , the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) and greens a week ago , and urged him to do his part to ensure political stability in germany .
the eu faces a narrow window to forge agreement on macron s european reform proposals because , as 2019 approaches , it is expected to be consumed by the brexit negotiations , wrangling over a new long-term budget for the bloc and eu elections .
for that reason , the french president would prefer to avoid a lengthy period of political uncertainty in germany , including new elections that could delay the formation of a government in berlin until mid-2018 .
macron also may be hoping the spd led by former european parliament president schulz and foreign minister sigmar gabriel can convince merkel s conservatives to embrace some of his more controversial ideas for the euro zone .
macron , a centrist , honed many of his european reform ideas with gabriel when both were economy ministers .
on page 98 of their election program , the spd calls for many of the same measures that macron supports : a euro zone budget , finance minister and parliament , as well as harmonized corporate tax rates and the transformation of europe s esm bailout mechanism into a more robust european monetary fund .
two months after the election , senior spd officials say there is still broad support in the party for these ideas .
but none suggest that the party is likely to insist on them in talks with merkel that could begin next month .
several pointed to the departure of merkel s hardline finance minister wolfgang schaeuble , who has shifted to the role of bundestag president , as a significant step already .
before the election , a lot of people said we needed to get rid of schaeuble .
now they ve done that for us , said one senior party member .
will we push for more on europe ?
yes .
will there be other priorities that are perhaps more important ?
yes .
another spd official said achieving a level playing field on corporate tax rates in europe and introducing a financial transactions tax were just as important as macron s plans to overhaul euro zone governance .
while merkel has shown a readiness to work with macron , other members of her conservative bloc are skeptical about his euro zone ideas , fearful europe could develop into a transfer union in which germany pays for reform-wary southern countries .
over the past four years , the spd struggled to put its mark on european policy , with schaeuble , backed by merkel , setting a strict rules-based course that emphasized structural reforms in euro member states over closer integration .