sarajevo ( reuters ) - in the 1990s he was the burly , brash general leading nationalist bosnian serbs towards a seemingly sweeping victory in bosnia s war .
two decades later , he was reduced to an ailing old man trying in vain to delay judgment for genocide in a u.n. court .
on wednesday , the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) convicted ratko mladic , 74 , in one of the highest profile war crimes cases since the post-world war two nuremberg trials of germany s nazi leadership .
radovan karadzic , political leader of bosnia s serbs in the 1992-95 war , and serbian president slobodan milosevic , who armed and funded bosnian serb forces , were tried on the same charges .
the icty convicted karadzic in 2016 and jailed him for 40 years .
milosevic died in his cell in 2006 before his trial ended .
defiant until the close of his five-year trial , mladic desperately tried to postpone the verdict .
his lawyers persistently accused the icty of denying him proper medical care .
they asked for him to be treated in serbia or russia , but were rebuffed .
prosecutors demanded a life sentence for the man who critics called the butcher of bosnia .
his lawyers called for his acquittal and release , arguing he never approved mass killings of muslim or croat civilians in bosnia s vicious , often neighbourhood war and was a victim of western anti-serb bias .
mladic said he wanted to be remembered as a defender of serbs in a struggle for survival against muslims dating back centuries , and made urgent by a muslim-croat vote for bosnia s independence from serbian-led yugoslavia in 1992 .
i am general ratko mladic .
the whole world knows who i am , he told a pre-trial hearing in 2011 .
i am here defending my country and people , not ratko mladic .
mladic was charged with genocide for the slaughter of 8,000 unarmed bosnian muslim men and boys rounded up in the town of srebrenica , and his forces 43-month-long siege of sarajevo in which thousands of civilians were killed by artillery , mortar , tank and sniper fire from the rugged hills ringing the capital .
from the time of his icty indictment in mid-1995 , before the war ended , it took 17 years to bring him to trial in the hague - a testament to the loyalty he inspired among serbs who helped conceal him and to the resilience of their nationalist cause .
but as serbia evolved after bosnia s war from authoritarian rule to democracy seeking integration with the european union , mladic lost his sanctuary .
when serbian police acting on an icty arrest warrant finally traced mladic to a cousin s farmhouse in may 2011 , they found a penniless , shambling and ill old man .
the son of a world war two yugoslav partisan killed in 1945 , mladic was a general in the old communist yugoslav people s army ( jna ) when the multinational balkan republic began to disintegrate in 1991 with the secession of slovenia and croatia .
when bosnia s serbs rose up in response to a referendum for independence by muslims and croats , mladic took over belgrade s forces in bosnia which swiftly overran 70 percent of the country with a combination of daring , ruthlessness and brutality .
serb paramilitaries entered the conflict with a campaign of murder , rape , mutilation and expulsion mainly against bosnian muslims .
dozens of towns were besieged with heavy weapons and villages were burned down as 22,000 u.n. peacekeeping troops stood by more or less helplessly , with orders not to take sides .
mladic had a cameraman film the blitz of the muslim enclave of srebrenica , showing him bronzed and fit at 53 , extolling his lads and haranguing hapless dutch u.n. peacekeepers who took his soldier s word that the inhabitants would be safe .
instead , 8,000 of them were systematically executed in a massacre that took several days in july 1995 .
tv footage showed mladic asserting that he had liberated srebrenica and gifted it to serbs as revenge against turks who ruled the region when it was part of the ottoman empire .
muslim men and boys were separated from women , stripped of identification then shot .
the dead were bulldozed into mass graves .
the remains were later dug up and hauled away in trucks to be better hidden from the world in more remote mass graves .
over 6,900 victims have since been identified by dna tests .
the massacre was the grim culmination of a 3-1/2-year conflict in which the beefy general had pounded sarajevo daily with the entire bosnian serb arsenal , killing over 11,000 people , until local sports fields were overflowing with graves .
his goal , icty prosecutors said , was ethnic cleansing - the forcible extermination or expulsion of muslims , croats and other non-serbs to clear bosnian lands for a greater serbia .
prosecutors said it was a conspiracy in which mladic and karadzic were aided , armed and abetted by milosevic .
only a combination of western pressure and covert american arms and training for croats and muslims turned the tide in 1995 against mladic s army , ultimately depriving it of equipment and fuel supplies from serbia .
nato air strikes did the rest .
he spent only half his time at large as a hunted fugitive .
even after milosevic fell to a pro-democracy uprising in 2000 , mladic remained well protected in various belgrade apartments until 2005 .
he received treatment at a top military hospital .
sporadic sightings put him at a belgrade horse race or soccer match .
when finally arrested in the shabby rural farmhouse , he put up no resistance .
his right arm was lame , the apparent result of an untreated stroke .
his trial had to be delayed over and over because of his shaky health .
yet in court , mladic grinned as a judge read out the charges of genocide , war crimes and crimes against humanity .
srebrenica massacre survivors attending one hearing were shocked when he made a throat-slitting gesture towards a muslim woman who had lost her husband , son and several brothers .
in 2014 , he refused to give evidence in support of old ally karadzic , calling the tribunal a satanic court .
when the time finally came on wednesday to face judgment , mladic delayed proceedings , first by taking a bathroom break and undergoing a blood pressure test at his request , then screaming this is all lies , you are all liars on returning to the court .
he was hustled out of the chamber , and the tribunal announced he had been convicted of genocide and crimes against humanity .
mladic will appeal against the verdict , his lawyer said .
even with his conviction on wednesday , mladic s trial is unlikely to further post-war reconciliation in bosnia .
the u.s.-brokered dayton accords of 1995 halted the bloodshed by dividing bosnia into a semi-autonomous serb republic entity and a bosniak-croat federation .
this did not heal ethnic splits or prevent a resurgence of serb separatism .
most bosnian serbs remain convinced that mladic is innocent , and that the tribunal is utterly biased against them .
of the 83 defendants the icty has convicted , over 60 of them are serbs .
i am a very old man ... and i am not important , mladic told the tribunal .
it matters what kind of legacy i will leave behind , among my people .