new york ( reuters ) - if hillary clinton decided to run as an independent for new york city mayor this year , she would open with a sizable lead over incumbent democrat bill de blasio , according to quinnipiac university poll released on wednesday .
clinton led de blasio 49 percent to 30 percent in the survey of 1,138 city voters .
it had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9 percentage points , meaning results could vary that much either way .
since democrat clinton ’ s loss to republican president-elect donald trump in november , there has been speculation that the former u.s. secretary of state and u.s. senator from new york state might set her sights on the new york city mayoralty this year .
political analysts have dismissed the rumors , saying there is little chance clinton , 69 , would seek de blasio ’ s office after coming so close to winning the white house .
clinton ’ s camp has not denied the possibility outright , though advisers have said they do not expect her to seek public office again .
a spokesman for de blasio ’ s re-election campaign and a clinton spokesman did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
the poll may also be a reflection of de blasio ’ s public standing , which has had its ups and downs during his four-year term .
forty-five percent of those surveyed approved of de blasio , while a nearly identical 46 percent did not .
nevertheless , the poll showed de blasio ahead of other possible challengers , including former city council speaker christine quinn , who lost to de blasio in the 2013 democratic primary , and city comptroller scott stringer .
“ new yorkers aren ’ t in love with mayor bill de blasio , but they seem to like him better than other possible choices – except hillary clinton , who probably is an impossible choice , ” tim malloy , the poll ’ s assistant director , said in a statement .
the poll was apparently the first major survey to include clinton as a potential mayoral candidate .
new york city has never had a female mayor .
in the nov. 8 presidential election , clinton captured more than 80 percent of new york city votes , even though trump was born and raised in the heavily democratic city .
she moved in 1999 to chappaqua , new york , about 30 miles north of the city , in order to run for the u.s. senate .