( reuters ) - nicaragua is set to join the paris climate agreement , according to an official statement and comments from vice president rosario murillo on monday , in a move that leaves the united states and syria as the only nations outside the global pact .
nicaragua has already presented the relevant documents at the united nations , murillo , who is also first lady , said on local radio on monday .
it is the only instrument we have in the world that allows the unity of intentions and efforts to face up to climate change and natural disasters , murillo said .
u.s. president donald trump said in june he would withdraw the united states from the accord , and nicaragua s decision to enter the pact means only two countries will now be outside it - the world s no .
1 economy and war-torn syria .
nicaragua , a poor central american nation that is often threatened by hurricanes , was the only nation to reject the agreement in 2015 , and has argued for far more drastic action to limit rising temperatures .
the paris accord , agreed by nearly 200 countries two years ago , seeks to limit planetary warming by curbing global emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that scientists believe drive global warming .
the administration of former u.s. president barack obama had pledged deep emissions cuts as part of the deal , but his successor , trump , has said the accord would cost america trillions of dollars , kill jobs , and hinder the oil , gas , coal and manufacturing industries .
island nation fiji will host the next round of u.n. climate talks from nov. 6-17 in bonn , germany , where environment ministers from around the world will work on a set of international guidelines for the paris accord .
the latest round of negotiations take place after a string of powerful hurricanes ravaged caribbean island nations and caused billions of dollars in damage along the texas and florida coastlines .
climate scientists have said warmer air and water resulting from climate change may have contributed to the severity of the storms .
the u.s. environmental protection agency has disputed such claims as an attempt to politicize natural disasters .