warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s political establishment must open up negotiations on proposals to reform the country s courts to avoid further damage to the country s judicial system , a united nations envoy urged on friday .
secrecy surrounding the proposals , if not dispelled , could do lasting harm to poland s court system , said diego garcia-sayan , a un special rapporteur on the independence of the judiciary .
the proposed changes risk hampering the capacity of judicial authorities to ensure checks and balances and protect and promote human rights , garcia-sayan said at a briefing after a four-day mission to warsaw .
poland s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party is embroiled in a confrontation with president andrzej duda over reforming the court system .
the standoff began in july , when the president , a pis ally , unexpectedly vetoed bills that would have changed the makeup of the supreme court and how judges are chosen .
pis says the judicial system needs to be reformed because the courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist-era mentality .
but critics of the plans say they are part of a drive toward authoritarianism .
jaroslaw kaczynski , the leader of pis and poland s paramount politician , has since met privately with duda four times for talks on the reforms .
details of those meetings have been kept secret , and it is not known whether a consensus is in sight .
garcia-sayan said it was difficult to understand how in a democracy work on major legal reforms could take place behind closed doors .
it s not a technicality that s being discussed , but a major thing that will have to do with justice , checks and balances , and so on , he said .
so , a major suggestion is , please , open political , substantial dialogue .
he added that the judiciary reform that pis has been pushing since coming to power in late 2015 has been presented as a cure , but appears to be worse than the disease affecting the polish judiciary .
garcia-sayan s comments were not supported by facts and were harmful for poland and the polish people , rafal bochenek , a government spokesman , told poland s state news agency , pap .