jerusalem ( reuters ) - prime minister benjamin netanyahu barred israeli government comment on monday s kurdish independence referendum in iraq , two officials said , after his sept. 13 endorsement of kurdish statehood irked turkey .
the plebiscite was held despite objections from the united states and turkey , a regional power whose ties with israel have long been troubled .
the autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) has also voiced misgivings about overt israeli backing .
asked to comment on the referendum , one israeli cabinet minister declined , telling reuters on condition of anonymity : bibi ( netanyahu ) asked us not to .
a second israeli official confirmed the order , saying the subject was too sensitive .
netanyahu s office did not respond to a request for comment .
israel has maintained discreet military , intelligence and business ties with kurds since the 1960s , viewing the minority ethnic group - whose indigenous population is split among iraq , turkey , syria and iran - as a buffer against shared adversaries .
israel also has a sizeable kurdish jewish immigrant community .
israel has backed kurdish independence in the past - most recently in the sept. 13 statement by netanyahu .
centrist israeli lawmaker yair lapid , a former minister in netanyahu s conservative coalition , tweeted on monday : the jewish people know what it is to struggle for a homeland .
the kurds have a moral right to a state of their own .
i wish them luck today .
but kurdish officials said such rhetoric is unsolicited and damaging .
our adversaries attack us as a second israel in the region and this kind of israeli talk contributes to that , one kurdish official told reuters .
turkish president tayyip erdogan said on monday netanyahu s position on the kurds affected ankara s relations with israel .
speaking in istanbul , erdogan said that while visiting new york for the u.n. general assembly he met u.s. jewish leaders who had quoted netanyahu as describing israeli-turkish ties as not going well .
how could that be ?
there is no one recognizing the krg ( referendum decision ) except him .
we are in a different position , erdogan said .