washington ( reuters ) - u.s. senate majority leader mitch mcconnell said on thursday he had spoken with myanmar s aung san suu kyi and that she said she was working to get aid to the rohingya muslim areas in the southeast asian nation that were affected by violence .
suu kyi agreed with the need for immediate and improved access of humanitarian assistance to the region , particularly by the international red cross , and she conveyed that she is working toward that end , mcconnell said on the senate floor .
mcconnell , whose republicans control majorities in both houses of congress , repeated earlier criticism of a resolution introduced in the u.s. senate urging suu kyi to do more for myanmar s ethnic minority rohingya population , and lessening the chance that any such measure could pass .
mcconnell has had close ties to suu kyi for years .
he said suu kyi , a nobel prize laureate and de facto head of the government in myanmar , also known as burma , told him when they spoke on wednesday that violations of human rights would need to be addressed .
attacks by rohingya militants on security posts last month triggered an army operation that has killed more than 400 people , destroyed over 6,800 houses and sent nearly 400,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to bangladesh .
suu kyi has been a target of criticism from fellow nobel laureates and religious leaders across the world for failing to condemn human rights abuses against the rohingya during the military s fierce response to rohingya militant attacks .
the united nations appealed thursday for massive help for the nearly 400,000 who fled to bangladesh , amid concern the number could keep rising unless myanmar ends what critics denounce as ethnic cleansing .
mcconnell said suu kyi s position in the government was exceedingly difficult and that as a civilian , she had virtually no authority over the military .
he warned that weakening her could interfere with the country s transition from decades of military rule .
mcconnell said he expected a briefing soon from suu kyi s office and that she was trying very hard to improve conditions for the rohingya .
burma s path to representative government is not at all certain and is certainly not over .
and attacking the single political leader who has worked to further democracy within burma is likely to hinder the objective over the long run , mcconnell concluded .