phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen , facing western donor pressure over a crackdown on critics ahead of 2018 elections , will seek more aid and investment from china during a visit this week , his aide said on wednesday .
china is already cambodia s biggest donor and its support has bolstered hun sen in the face of criticism of what his opponents say amounts to the destruction of democracy .
the aide , sry thamrong , said hun sen would attend a special summit from thursday to sunday held by the ruling communist party on a theme espoused by chinese president xi jinping on turning the world for the better and without interference .
the aim of hun sen s meetings to discuss aid and investment with xi and chinese investors is to create more jobs in cambodia , he said .
especially , we need more bridges on the mekong river , we also need many more roads , trains , sky train , sry thamrong told reporters at the international airport in phnom penh , the capital , before the departure .
these are the things we need in the future .
china has supported cambodia s crackdown , making no criticism of the government , which is one of beijing s most important allies in southeast asia after more than three decades in power .
the supreme court this month banned the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) at the government s request .
that followed the arrest of its leader kem sokha for plotting to take power with american help .
the united states has stopped election funding ahead of next year s general election and threatened further concrete steps .
the european union has raised a potential threat to cambodia s duty free access .
washington is working on a review of its ties with cambodia after the dissolution of the cnrp , william heidt , the u.s. ambassador to cambodia said .
that is something we are taking very seriously , having a very serious review of our policies towards cambodia , he told broadcaster voice of america in an interview on wednesday .