hmmm ever wonder why the left fears trump so much ?
the daily beast s tim mak and brandon zadrozny woke up on tuesday to find that cnn completely embarrassed them .
after publishing a more-than-1,700-word-long invective on monday evening reprinting old and disproven allegations against gop presidential frontrunner donald trump by his ex-wife in divorce proceedings trump s ex-wife herself came out with a statement to cnn standing by her ex-husband , and discrediting the liberal outlet s hit piece which relied heavily on statements she made in divorce proceedings 30 years ago .
i have recently read some comments attributed to me from nearly 30 years ago at a time of very high tension during my divorce from donald .
the story is totally without merit .
donald and i are the best of friends and together have raised three children that we love and are very proud of .
i have nothing but fondness for donald and wish him the best of luck on his campaign .
incidentally , i think he would make an incredible president , ivana trump , donald s ex-wife , said in the statement to cnn.donald and ivana trump had three children together ivanka , eric and donald , jr. , donald s oldest children and now all officials at trump s company three of trump s five children.the embarrassing and quick putdown of the daily beast story comes just hours after the outlet ran a blistering headline falsely accusing him of rape : ex-wife : donald trump made me feel violated during sex .
the sub-headline of the inaccurate article was even worse , directly leveling the false rape allegation : ivana trump once accused the real-estate tycoon of rape , although she later clarified : not in the criminal sense .
the way they justified dredging up the three-decade-old allegation from divorce proceeding transcript , which was again per ivana s statement to cnn clearly false ?
donald trump introduced his presidential campaign to the world with a slur against mexican immigrants , accusing them of being rapists and bringing crime into the country .
mak and zadrozny wrote as the lead of their article before delving into the lurid , old and disproven details .
i mean somebody s doing it !
who s doing the raping ?
donald trump said , when asked to defend his characterization .
it was an unfortunate turn of phrase for trump in more ways than one .
from there , they delve into the old allegations : not only does the current frontrunner for the republican presidential nomination have a history of controversial remarks about sexual assault , but as it turns out , his ex-wife ivana trump once used rape to describe an incident between them in 1989 .
she later said she felt violated by the experience .
the incident did come up in the divorce proceedings transcripts and was first reported on widely and publicly by former texas monthly and former newsweek reporter harry hurt iii in his 1993 book : lost tycoon : the many lives of donald j. trump .
so , what did mak and zadrozny do ?
bring the old story back up of course.for entire story : breitbart news