caracas ( reuters ) - the whale , the dog or the zebra ?
players line up beside a small kiosk in a poor neighborhood to choose animals in a lottery game that has become a craze in venezuela even as the oil-rich country suffers a fourth year of brutal recession .
it seems more and more venezuelans are turning to gambling in their desperation to make ends meet amid the country s unprecedented economic crisis .
though more people lose than win overall , the illusion of a payday has become more alluring as venezuelans endure the world s highest inflation , shortages of basics from flour to car batteries , and diminished real-term wages .
among multiple options from race courses to back-street betting parlors , the roulette-style los animalitos ( or the little animals ) is currently by far the most popular game on the street .
most people i see playing the lottery are unemployed , trying to make a bit extra this way because the payouts are good , said veruska torres , 26 , a nurse who recently lost her job in a pharmacy and now plays animalitos every day .
torres often plays more than a dozen times daily at the kiosk in catia , spending between 5,000-10,000 bolivars , but sometimes making up to 50,000 or 60,000 bolivars in winnings - more than a quarter of the monthly minimum wage .
when that happens , she splits the money between buying food and diapers for her baby boy , and re-investing in the lottery .
the animalitos game , whose results appear on youtube at scheduled times , is hugely popular because it goes through various rounds , holding people s interest , and provides more chances to win than most traditional betting options .
the cheapest ticket costs just 100 bolivars - a quarter of a u.s. cent at the black market currency rate , and more than 10 times less than that at the official exchange level .
it helped me a lot , said eduardo liendo , 63 , of a timely win .
he recently lost his house and lives in a car in caracas propatria neighborhood , but had a successful punt on the animalitos , choosing the dog figure after his own had died .
there is no hard data on betting figures , and the government s betting regulator did not answer requests from reuters for information .
but those behind venezuela s gambling businesses , run by a mixture of private companies and local regional authorities , said trade was booming , with lines longer and busier than ever - because of , not despite , the hard times .
in a crisis like the one we re going through , people drink and gamble more to escape from reality , said psychologist rosa garcia from the rural state of barinas .
the latest scarcity in venezuela is cash - as authorities can not produce enough notes to keep up with dizzying inflation - so many bars , shops and betting parlors have quickly switched from cash to electronic transactions to keep money flowing .
that has hit the caracas hippodrome , where cash is still king .
but thousands still go there at weekends , pushing against fences in front of the sand track to cheer their horse on as salsa music booms in the background .
( see reut.rs/2a2eoeb for a related photo essay )