the big question with the extradition of the hacker named guccifer : will he only be used to demonstrate how easy it was to crack max blumethal s private account and thus how negligent hillary was in handling classified material ? we reported on the smoking gun release of guccifer s info on clinton/blumenthal exchanges .
the e-mails between clinton and blumenthal expose what self-centered lunatics they are .
unreal : testimony from state department employee on clinton s handling of classified information : the extradition of romanian hacker guccifer to the u.s. at a critical point in the fbi s criminal investigation of hillary clinton s email use is not a coincidence , according to an intelligence source close to the case.one of the notches on guccifer s cyber-crime belt was allegedly accessing the email account of clinton confidant sidney blumenthal , one of clinton s most prolific advice-givers when she was secretary of state .
it was through that hack that clinton s use of a personal account clintonemail.com first came to light.former law enforcement and cyber security experts said the hacker , whose real name is marcel lehel lazar , could now that he s in the u.s. help the fbi make the case that clinton s email server was compromised by a third party , one that did not have the formal backing and resources of a foreign intelligence service such as that of russia , china or iran .
because of the proximity to sidney blumenthal and the activity involving hillary s emails , [ the timing ] seems to be something beyond curious , said ron hosko , former assistant director of the fbi s criminal investigative division from 2012-2014.on tuesday , lazar appeared in an alexandria , va. , federal courtroom for his detention hearing , attended by fox news .
he faces a nine-count federal indictment on computer hacking charges and , according to both romanian and u.s. officials , is expected to be in the country for 18 months.a spokesman for the fbi s washington field office , which led the guccifer investigation , had no comment on the extradition , the timing , and any potential intersection with the clinton email probe.on or about march 31 , lazar was extradited 3,700 miles to alexandria from a prison in arad , romania , where he has been serving a seven-year sentence for hacking crimes committed in his native country .
his targets in romania were prominent government officials and political figures whom he often taunted under the name of micul fum or little smoke .
following his 2014 conviction , lazar was effectively neutralized in prison and no longer a threat , which makes his transfer to the u.s. all the more noteworthy.the 44-year-old entered the alexandria courtroom wearing a green jumpsuit , with the yellow word prisoner stenciled on the back .
lazar appeared confident and relaxed during the four-minute appearance , telling the court he did not need the translator provided for the hearing.according to the 15-page federal indictment , lazar specialized in gaining unauthorized access to the online accounts of high-profile individuals including clinton ally blumenthal , who appears to be identified as victim 5 a journalist and former presidential advisor who was the true owner of an aol account with subaccounts known to the grand jury .
the indictment went on to note that using his alias of guccifer on blumenthal s account , lazar attempted to conceal his identity by accessing the account from a proxy server located in russia .
read more : fox news ( catherine herridge and pamela browne )