villavicencio ( reuters ) - blanca real traveled 17 hours by canoe and bus from colombia s eastern plains to listen to a message of peace by pope francis , in the hope he can heal her pain decades after she and her family survived a massacre .
real , 44 , is one of thousands of victims of colombia s half-century of conflict that will seek blessings and guidance from the pontiff on friday during his visit to the rural town of villavicencio .
the argentine pope , leader of the world s roman catholics , is visiting colombia with a message of national reconciliation , as the country tries to heal the wounds left by the conflict and deep polarization over a peace deal agreed last year .
after visiting the capital bogota on wednesday and thursday , francis will travel to villavicencio , where he will lead a prayer event with some 6,000 victims from around the andean nation .
villavicencio , a mid-sized city and the capital of the cattle ranching province of meta in central colombia , is ringed by vast plains which until recently were host to combat between leftist guerrilla groups and right-wing paramilitaries .
it will be comforting to get rid of this pain that we ve suffered for so many years , said real , who survived a 1998 paramilitary massacre in puerto alvira , meta province and was later displaced from her farm by rebels from the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) .
paramilitary groups , which officially demobilized back in 2006 but remain active across colombia , were formed in the 1990s as private security forces to protect wealthy cattle ranchers and landowners from the farc .
but they soon morphed into cruel drug-trafficking armies that massacred communities as they battled the farc for territory .
if i don t forgive and take away the pain i have in my heart , i will never be able to be happy , said real , who lost friends among the 18 killed in the massacre .
a small group of victims and perpetrators - including civilians , former guerrillas and soldiers - are scheduled to speak at the event .
violence between the rebels , paramilitaries and armed forces has killed more than 220,000 people and displaced millions more .
other victims said that , despite the papal visit , there remained challenges .
for my wounds to heal , to forgive these people , they need to stop hurting me , but they continue to do things in my area , said ana delia cundumi , head of a victims group from the southeastern jungle province of guaviare .
we are still seeing blood spilled in our land because of these people , she said .
we are still threatened .
francis has staunchly supported the peace deal between the government and the farc , but delayed his visit to colombia until implementation was in full swing .
the farc has now disarmed and converted into a political party .
remaining rebel group the national liberation army ( eln ) , founded by radical roman catholic priests in 1964 , is in peace talks with the government .
the two sides announced a bilateral ceasefire this week , set to last at least into january 2018 .