brussels ( reuters ) - the european union vowed to ensure that malta finds the barbarous assassins of a journalist being buried there on friday and to resolve potential structural problems with the rule of law on the island .
reflecting concern in europe over possible systemic failings in maltese democracy , european commission first vice president frans timmermans called on the eu s smallest state to leave no stone unturned in hunting the killers of investigative blogger daphne caruana galizia , who died in a car bombing last month .
the eyes of europe are on the maltese authorities , wrote timmermans , a former dutch foreign minister who as jean-claude juncker s deputy oversees the brussels executive s efforts to ensure member states respect democratic and judicial standards .
if journalists are silenced , so is democracy , he said in a reply , seen by reuters , to a letter from european media editors urging the eu to ensure justice for caruana galizia .
we want those directly and indirectly responsible for this horrible murder to be brought to justice .
and we want the investigations to run their full course , so that any other related wrongdoings that may emerge can also be prosecuted and potential structural problems be resolved , he added .
caruana galizia was a controversial figure who accused many of the most senior figures in both government and opposition of corruption and involvement in international money-laundering .
we insist that the maltese authorities leave no stone unturned to make sure that this atrocious , barbarous assassination does not lead to the situation that the perpetrators apparently want to achieve : that no-one dares ask pertinent questions and no journalist dares investigate the powers that be , he added .
this will not happen in europe .
not on this commission s watch .
the commission said in a separate statement that juncker condemned such attacks in the strongest possible terms .
the right of a journalist to investigate , ask uncomfortable questions and report effectively , is at the heart of our values and needs to be guaranteed at all times , the statement said .
prime minister joseph muscat , who is himself suing caruana galizia s son for libel over allegations of corruption , says everything will be done to find her killers .
his government has offered a one million-euro reward and protection for anyone providing information to identify them .
the commission has limited powers to intervene directly in member states .
it has applied largely moral pressure on hungary and poland to reverse proposed laws that it sees as breaching eu treaties by curbing judicial , media or other freedoms .
it has warned that it could seek to suspend poland , but this would require support from all member states - something the commission sees as difficult to obtain .
the commission does have powers to fine states for breaches of eu legislation .
european parliament president antonio tajani said in a statement he would attend the funeral in malta at the invitation of caruana galizia s family .