bandar seri begawan ( reuters ) - oil-rich brunei s absolute ruler marked 50 years in power on thursday , with elaborate celebrations that included a glittering procession through the capital on a gilded chariot .
sultan hassanal bolkiah , 71 , is now the world s second-longest reigning monarch , after ascending the throne in the tiny northeast borneo nation in 1967 .
dressed in gold brocade , the sultan entered the capital , bandar seri begawan , with his wife , queen saleha , and their children on a carriage pulled by 50 members of the royal household clad in traditional black and gold woven cloth .
a military band led the five-km ( three-mile ) procession , which was greeted by more than 80,000 well-wishers , some of whom had arrived as early as 5 a.m. to secure a good spot .
the procession was part of a month-long celebration of the golden jubilee , which includes the opening of brunei s first cable-stayed bridge , the unveiling of a major new urban park and a state banquet at the gold-domed palace on friday , attended by regional leaders as well as british and middle eastern royalty .
the responsibility of the king is to his people and the people have a responsibility to the king , the sultan told an audience at the palace .
together , the king and the people hold the trust of the nation .
brunei , a former british protectorate of about 400,000 people , relies heavily on oil and gas exports for its wealth .
the country does not hold elections but any discontent is assuaged with generous government polices , including zero taxes , subsidized housing and free healthcare and education .
despite tight social controls , the sultan is hugely popular .
his rule has seen brunei gain full independence from britain and living standards soar to among the highest in asia .
when we go to friday prayers at the mosque , he is there .
we can go up to him and shake his hand or pass him letters if we have complaints , said aizzat bakar , 32 , a businessman working in the capital .
but the sultan also presided over the adoption of tough islamic law in 2014 , which raised concerns among tens of thousands of non-muslims , including western expatriate workers .
the sale of alcohol is banned in brunei and evangelism by other religions is strictly forbidden .
details of the lavish lifestyle of the sultan s brother , prince jefri , including owning hundreds of luxury cars and a yacht , became public during a family feud , grabbing global headlines and shocking many in the country .
the sultan , once the world s richest man , has a firm grip on power , but brunei has also become a microcosm of the trouble faced by oil-dependent states .
as global energy prices tumbled over the past three years , government revenue nosedived by 70 per cent .
brunei is the only association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) country to have seen a recession for three straight years .
the price collapse prompted brunei to embrace chinese investment , with beijing pumping billions into key infrastructure projects .
in return , the sultanate has remained largely silent on beijing s vast territorial stake in the south china sea , which overlaps brunei s own claims in the disputed waters .