new york ( reuters ) - donald trump had come to a run-down new york city apartment on a fall day in 2003 to tape a scene for his new reality television show , “ the apprentice. ” suddenly , one of the contestants cried out in surprise .
the young woman , omarosa manigault , had been struck in the head by a piece of plaster dislodged from the ceiling by a microphone boom .
she immediately blamed the mishap on another contestant .
as trump watched , every camera in the room shifted to capture the outburst , one of those moments that are the lifeblood of reality television , a former crew member recalled .
fast-forward to 2016 : as a presidential candidate , trump talks often about turning the cameras .
he creates moments of great drama during his rallies by pointing out television cameramen and accusing them of refusing to show the size of his crowds .
“ turn the camera ! ” he chanted at a michigan rally last year .
the crowd of 9,000 joined him until a roar filled the room and exploded into cheers as the cameraman finally swung his camera to show the crowd .
such scenes have become commonplace .
trump ’ s 2016 white house run is built in part on drama and controversy , a campaign that former cast and crew members of “ the apprentice ” said appeared to draw lessons from reality tv , especially one : how to grab the public ’ s attention and keep it .
trump denied in an interview that he had learned any tricks from the show .
his success on television , he said , came from a “ natural instinct. ” but those involved in “ the apprentice ” said trump the candidate is not all that different from the contestants on the dog-eat-dog elimination game show , where 14 people engaged in a series of business-related challenges to win a job at trump ’ s real estate company .
at the end of each episode , trump would appear with the contestants in an executive boardroom and eliminate one with his trademark , “ you ’ re fired. ” a producer on the show ’ s first season , bill pruitt , said he believed trump had learned , by watching and refereeing fights among the contestants , how they “ defended or went after one another. ” pruitt said he had seen trump evolve on the show , honing his ability to get candidates to turn on one another , one of the hallmarks of the show .
“ he learned , as time went on , how to do that , how to speak and create reactions , ” said pruitt , who is not supporting trump ’ s presidential run .
“ the campaign is much different than a show , ” trump responded , rejecting the idea that his campaign bore any resemblance to reality television .
long before the debut of “ the apprentice , ” the new york businessman was a regular fixture in the pages of his hometown ’ s daily newspapers , which covered his fights with other real estate developers and celebrities like rosie o ’ donnell .
but “ the apprentice ” gave him a truly national platform for the first time , and he saw how his blunt and unfiltered style helped make the show a major hit .
at it ’ s peak , nearly 21 million people watched the show , which ran for 14 seasons and has still not been canceled by nbc .
“ i haven ’ t changed .
‘ the apprentice ’ didn ’ t change me .
i think i changed ‘ the apprentice ’ , ” trump told reuters , asserting that he had come up with the idea to say , “ you ’ re fired. ” and he dismissed intensifying criticism that his presidential campaign thrives on conflict .
“ i ’ m not looking for conflict .
with the show it ’ s a little bit different. ” yet trump has dominated media coverage of the election in a way that has little modern precedent in american politics , and he has done that mostly by saying or doing something that makes people angry .
his barrage of insults in twitter battles with opponents , including fellow republican candidates , has delighted many supporters , who regularly tell pollsters they like the billionaire because he says what he thinks and doesn ’ t hold back .
his claim that mexico was sending rapists over the u.s. border enraged the mexican government ; his call for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states prompted widespread international condemnation , as did his call for killing the families of terrorists and torturing terrorism suspects .
mike dematteo , who worked on “ the apprentice ” as a sound mixer for nearly a decade , said it would have been hard for trump not to have drawn lessons from the show .
“ when you ’ re sitting back and watching it and seeing the reaction in the press as it evolved , you get a very good gauge of what people are talking about , who they like , what they don ’ t like , ” he said .
“ you ’ re really starting to understand the people out there. ” dematteo described himself as a trump fan but said he disapproved of some of his recent comments .
the place where apprentice contestants could battle for fame was the boardroom .
boardroom scenes found trump seated at the head of a long polished wood table , criticizing contestants ’ work .
contestants worked in teams , so trump ’ s questions were often about which team member was to blame for mistakes .
“ he would ask a lot of very to-the-point questions , he would put people on the spot , he would get information about contestants that would make the other ones mad at them , ” recalled dematteo .
michael tarshi , 36 , a boston-based real estate developer and a contestant on season 3 , has first-hand experience of this .
during one boardroom scene in season 3 , trump listened as members of a team described their roles in a failed project .
trump then asked one of the members , bren olswanger , whom he would fire .
olswanger named team-mate stephanie myers , setting off an argument between the two contestants .
when tarshi tried to interject , trump cut him off : “ michael let me ask you a question .
he ’ s telling me how bad stephanie is and you ’ re interrupting him with nonsense over nothing .
let me ask you this : he ’ s killing her .
he ’ s going after her .
she should be fired according to him. ” trump then turned the tables on tarshi .
“ michael , you ’ re fired , ” he said .
“ he definitely learned a lot about how to maneuver , to incite conflict between each contestant and each political candidate , ” said tarshi , who has attended trump ’ s rallies and private parties promoting his presidential bid .
“ you got ta be quick - boom boom ” the most popular season of “ the apprentice ” was its first , in which manigault was struck by the plaster .
even though that scene never aired , manigault spent several episodes complaining about being hit on the head .
it helped define her as the show ’ s combative character - a role that made her famous and fueled the show ’ s popularity .
she has remained a public figure and has endorsed trump for president .
in praising her combativeness at a rally last month , trump could have been describing himself .
“ when omarosa goes after you , you ’ ve got ta be quick - boom boom - and you ’ ve got ta be fast , ” he told the crowd .