the more they hammer the gop frontrunners , the more popular they become with the american voter .
is the real revolution taking place with the american people against the misleading , reckless and agenda driven media ?
after more than a hundred days of leading in every national poll , a new york times/cbs poll released tuesday shows dr. ben carson edging into a 26 % to 22 % national lead over donald trump for the republican presidential nomination .
the margin of error is a high 6 % .
but in this same poll , the trend shows that trump has lost -5 points , while carson gained +5 points.according to the real clear politics poll of poll , trump currently enjoys a +5 point national lead over carson.every other candidate is trailing by -14 or more points .
sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) is in third with 8 % ; jeb bush and carly fiorina are tied at 7 % .
sen. rand paul ( r-ky ) , sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) , mike huckabee , and john kasich are all tied up at 4 % .if you include cruz , the non-establishment candidates earn 59 % of support from republican primary supporters.there is some good news for trump : his support is firmer than carson s. a full 55 % of trump supporters said he is their guy to the bitter end , compared to just 20 % for carson.carson s national surge ( at least in this poll ) into first place coincides with what can only be described as a commanding lead in iowa .
according to the real clear politics poll of polls , carson beats trump by 9 % in the all-important caucus state.trump enjoys a commanding lead in every other state.to those of us living out here in the real world , carson s rise is only a surprise to the dc media .
earlier this month , carson had a phenomenal week as the dc media ganged up to destroy carson over things he said that were not at all controversial .
carson suggested students practice self-defense if faced with a mass-shooter and that nazi-era jews would have been in a better position to resist more had the government not confiscated their firearms in advance of the holocaust.democrats and their media allies have a long history of punishing black people who do not think the way they believe black people should think .
only today , instead of using the kkk , german shepherds , and firehoses , the media uses narratives and name-calling ( crazy , stupid ) to other free-thinking black men who dare stray from the left-wing thought plantation .
that s why people don t trust you ( the press ) anymore .
ben carson brilliantly hands the press their hat in this clip : https : //youtu.be/gjcynehc0x8in the face of his racist dc media oppressors , carson , who has struggled in the past during media appearances , was nothing short of phenomenal .
the good doctor kept his cool , his poise , and brilliantly made his case .
it was the best week of his campaign , and what voters saw was a man fully capable of handling a hostile media.also , voters are likely responding to the fact that , at least for now , carson gives the gop their best chance to defeat hillary .
he s up +5 points over her in the real clear poll of polls .
trump loses by -2.5 points.via : breitbart news