jerusalem ( reuters ) - u.s. pressure delayed an israeli ministerial vote on sunday on a proposed bill that washington fears entails annexation of jewish settlements near jerusalem , an israeli lawmaker said .
the greater jerusalem legislation would put some settlements in the occupied west bank , built on land palestinians seek for a future state and viewed as illegal by most countries , under the jurisdiction of jerusalem s municipality .
the bill , proposed by a member of prime minister benjamin netanyahu s right-wing likud party , was to have been submitted for approval on sunday to a ministerial committee on legislation , a first step before a series of ratification votes in parliament .
but likud lawmaker david bitan , chairman of netanyahu s coalition in parliament , said a vote by the cabinet committee would be delayed because washington told israel the bill s passage could impede u.s. efforts to revive peace talks that collapsed in 2014 .
there is american pressure that claims this is about annexation and that this could interfere with the peace process , bitan told army radio .
the prime minister doesn t think this is about annexation .
i don t think so either .
we have to take the time to clarify matters to the americans .
therefore , if the bill passes in a week , or in a month , it s less problematic , he said .
proponents of the legislation say it falls short of formal land annexation to israel but will enable some 150,000 settlers to vote in jerusalem city elections .
intelligence minister israel katz , a supporter of the bill , has said this would ensure a jewish majority in a united jerusalem .
israel s claim to all of jerusalem as its capital , including the eastern sector it captured along with the west bank and gaza strip in a 1967 middle east war , has not won international recognition .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a state they seek to establish in the west bank and gaza strip .
israeli media reports said the u.s. ambassador to israel , david friedman , had conveyed misgivings about the legislation , under which the large maale adumim and beitar illit settlements would become part of a greater jerusalem municipality .
israel s haaretz newspaper quoted netanyahu as telling cabinet ministers on sunday : the americans turned to us and inquired what the bill was all about .
as we have been coordinating with them until now , it is worth continuing to talk and coordinate with them .
a u.s. embassy spokeswoman declined immediate comment .
some 500,000 israelis live in the west bank and east jerusalem , areas home to more than 2.6 million palestinians .
israel disputes that its settlements are illegal , citing historical , biblical and political links to the territory , as well as security considerations .