florence , italy ( reuters ) - expatriate britons gathered in florence on friday to voice their frustration at how brexit will impact them , awaiting the british prime minister s arrival in the italian city to set out her vision for future ties with the european union .
may will try to rescue the stalled talks over terms for britain s exit from the eu in a speech that will be scrutinized to see if she can offer enough to eu negotiators to persuade them to move forward .
outside an imposing 14th century church in the center of the tuscan city , protesters waved eu flags and posters showing may holding a burning passport .
they called for the rights of british citizens living in other eu countries to be protected .
rachel pugh , a 48-year-old from north wales who has lived in florence since 1991 , said she was worried about losing her rights to a pension in the future and had been left uninformed by the british government .
who do we ask ?
the tooth fairy ?
father christmas ?
the easter bunny ?
who can we trust ?
none of them , she said , sporting eu and welsh flags on her lapel .
we couldn t vote .
we re invisible , in limbo .
negotiations , which began three months ago , have effectively reached an impasse over the divorce , including the issue of how much britain will have to pay to unspool more than 40 years of economic and political integration in the eu .
immigration was a key issue ahead of the june 2016 eu referendum in britain , and millions who have moved smoothly between britain and the rest of europe are waiting nervously to see how their lives may change .
civil rights campaigner and former british member of parliament roger casale said he had come to florence to show solidarity with all those who would be affected .
we think the eu should be setting an example and should give unilateral guarantees now to all brits in europe , he said .
citing media reports that british trade minister liam fox had described eu citizens living in britain as possible bargaining chips , casale said may had a hostile environment strategy vis a vis immigration , leaving people in a state of uncertainty .
britain is keen to start negotiating the terms of its new relationship with the bloc , and discontent over the slow progress and lack of clarity is also surfacing among voters .
visiting florence on holiday , malcolm burley , a 70-year-old retired plumber from leicestershire in central england , said he had voted to leave the eu and wanted a deal to be reached quickly .
( may ) needs to go and get it sorted as soon as possible .
time is running out , burley said .
we need to get it sorted and make sure we get the correct deal for england .