bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand is seeking to prosecute ousted prime minister thaksin shinawatra for graft under a law that allows politicians to be tried in absentia , an official said on tuesday , months after thaksin s sister was sentenced to jail in her absence .
thailand is divided broadly between those backing thaksin and his sister , former prime minister yingluck shinawatra , whose government was removed in a 2014 coup , and the elite in the capital , bangkok .
a former commerce minister and member of yingluck s puea thai party that was ousted in the coup said the planned prosecution of thaksin was politically motivated .
the former telecommunications tycoon was ousted in a 2006 coup and has since lived in self-imposed exile to avoid a graft conviction in 2008 he says was politically motivated .
separate cases against thaksin , including graft cases in 2008 and 2012 , had to be suspended until he returned to thailand for trial .
but an amendment to the law in september makes it possible for politicians to be prosecuted in their absence .
the 2008 and 2012 cases involved thaksin s alleged conflict of interest in a telecoms concession and suspected abuse of power .
public prosecutors put in a request to the supreme court today to proceed with the two cases without presence of the accused , in accordance with the new law , wanchart santikunchorn , a spokesman for the office of the attorney-general , told reporters .
thaksin was not immediately available for comment .
thaksin re-shaped thai politics after building a business empire , winning staunch support with populist policies that raised living standards , especially among the rural poor , and propelled him or his loyalists to victory in every election since 2001 .
yingluck fled the country in august , ahead of a verdict in a negligence trial , but was eventually found guilty and handed down a five-year jail term in absentia in september .
former commerce minister watana muangsook said the junta was damaging the country with politically motivated court cases .
the law which allows court proceedings in absentia of the accused is aimed at destroying the regime s political opposition , watana said in a statement to reuters .
wanchart denied the moves against the shinawatra family were biased , saying they were in line with the newly amended law .