sounds like one of the best reasons ever to vote for trump a saudi prince has urged americans not to vote for donald trump in the upcoming general election.turki al-faisal , who served as saudia arabia s ambassador to the us from 2005 to 2007 , spoke against the presumptive republican nominee during a foreign policy dinner in washington , dc on thursday.he blasted trump s proposal to ban muslims from entering the us , which the billionaire first formulated in december last year before renewing his vow on wednesday .
for the life of me , i can not believe that a country like the united states can afford to have someone as president who simply says , these people are not going to be allowed to come to the united states , turki said according to the huffington post .
it s up to you , it s not up to me , turki added .
i just hope you , as american citizens , will make the right choice in november .
this plea to not vote for trump should come as no surprise since saudi arabia has donated up to $ 50 million to the clinton foundationwfb the gulf nations represent three of the largest donors to the foundation , but that is hardly the extent of their ties to the clintons .
qatari , uae , and saudi firms paid bill clinton millions of dollars for speeches during the time hillary served as secretary of state , when she also approved weapons deals with all three countries worth billions of dollars to u.s. defense firms , many of which are also clinton foundation donors.bill clinton has praised the qataris as intelligent , forward looking investment partners for their collaboration on clinton foundation projects .
one of hillary s top advisers , cheryl mills , served on the board of the new york university campus in abu dhabi .
bill clinton is the friend and former classmate of saudi prince turki bin faisal al saud , who recently attended a lavish clinton foundation conference in marrakech , hosted by the king of morocco .
the bill clinton presidential library in little rock was funded in part by a $ 10 million from the saudi royal family.turk , who went to georgetown university in washington , dc , isn t currently part of saudia arabia s government but serves as the chairman of the king faisal center for research and islamic studies , a cultural organization that conducts research in politics , sociology and heritage .
h/t : breitbart news via : daily mail