according to the new york times , outlet stores t.j. maxx and marshalls have instructed their employees to throw away signs for ivanka trump s clothing line , and hang her clothes so that they mix in with other lines.the instruction was to eliminate special displays for the merchandise , not to remove it from the sales floor , said doreen thompson , a spokeswoman for the tjx companies , the retailers parent corporation .
we offer a rapidly changing selection of merchandise for our customers , and brands are featured based on a number of factors , she said.the company did not respond to the new york times query as to whether or not this kind of handling of product was normal , but one employee came forward and told the paper that after several years of being employed with the stores , she had not been instructed to do this before .
-the blazetj maxx and marshalls corporate headquarters are located in the very liberal city of farmington , ma.in the 2016 general election , 75 percent of the 39,722 registered voters in farmington participated in the presidential election.of those voters , 20,277 voted for clinton , with 7,031 for trump .
so it should come as no surprise that the people making the decisions on behalf of the stores would send such an outrageous message to their employees that appears to be intended to harm ivanka trump s clothing line .
for many shoppers like myself , these new developments as they relate to the trashing of ivanka trump s clothing and accessory brand really puts a crimp in my shopping patterns at some of my favorite stores , which include norstrom and tj maxx and the tj maxx owned home goods store .
gone are the days when these kinds of corporate decisions are made and kept under the radar .
trump has an army of exceptionally loyal supporters who are willing to defend him and his lovely family , even if it means we have to do our shopping elsewhere.in a usa today article , tj maxx ceo ernie herrman noted , we are extremely pleased that our comp store sales growth was almost entirely driven by customer traffic .
your companies recent decision to trash ivanka trump s brand in your store may change that mr. herrman here s a letter to tjmaxx ceo from a leftist in vt that was published in the local mountain times newspaper .
editors note : the following is an open letter to ernie herrman , ceo and president of tjmaxxdear mr. herrman , i am writing to tell you that i have stopped shopping in tjmaxx stores since the election in november of 2016 .
that is when i became aware that you carry ivanka accessories .
i m sure that you have not missed my 100 or so dollars a month that i would usually spend at your store .
but i have missed shopping with you .
this is probably hurting me more than it is you .
but the real hurt is what is being delivered to our nation by trump.let me be very clear : the objective of boycotting is not to destroy your business or to cause job losses .
the objective is to send a direct message to you , the ceo , to your board of directors , and your stockholders that your merchandising choice regarding ivanka brand goods needs to change.i know that public pressure and consumer spending has a big effect on markets and policy .
just this week , the ceo of uber resigned from trump s economic advisory council .
uber profited from continuing service at jfk airport last weekend when all the nyc cabs boycotted the airport in a show of support for the protesters .
consequently , 200,000 customers deleted their uber accounts .
the ceo decided it wasn t economically advantageous to be aligned with the trump administration.recently , the retailers : shoes.com , neiman marcus , and nordstrom s all cancelled their ivanka fashion and jewellery line because of public outcry and customer boycotts of their stores.in a consumer based economy , our money has power .
so i am asking you to cancel your merchandising of ivanka accessories .
please let me know as soon as possible when you have done this , so that i can resume shopping at my favorite tjmaxx store.in the meantime , i am going to donate the $ 100.00 i would have spent at your establishment this month to the aclu , so that green card holders , immigrants and refugees seeking to enter the us can have some legal representation.sincerely and respectfully , your once loyal customer , candy jones , rutland