caracas/bogota ( reuters ) - veteran venezuelan opposition leader antonio ledezma , under house arrest since 2015 for alleged coup plotting , escaped across the border to colombia on friday and later flew to spain .
with a 2018 presidential election looming , an array of major venezuelan opposition figures are now in exile , detention or are barred from holding office .
they say maduro has turned venezuela into a dictatorship , while the government accuses them of joining forces with a u.s.-led global plot to topple him .
ledezma , the best-known detained opponent of leftist president nicolas maduro after leopoldo lopez , had spearheaded street protests against maduro in 2014 that led to months of violence and 43 deaths .
in spain today i feel free , he said at madrid s barajas airport , where he arrived in the early hours of saturday .
he was cheered by a small crowd including his wife and two daughters , who were already in spain .
supporters chanted the venezuelan anthem .
let s not permit that venezuela dies in our hands , he also said , adding that he would soon meet with spanish prime minister mariano rajoy .
the 62-year-old former caracas metropolitan mayor said he had gone past 29 police and army controls during a clandestine , overland journey that he kept secret from his loved ones .
i ask my wife and daughters to understand .
they have suffered long hours of anguish without knowing where i was , he told reporters in the colombian border town of cucuta after crossing a bridge from san antonio in venezuela .
it was my decision alone .
welcome to freedom !
tweeted former colombian president andres pastrana , who is close to venezuela s opposition and the families of other jailed activists .
ledezma was mocked by maduro as the vampire , and accused by officials of helping violent hardliners , including dissident military officers plotting to topple the president via air strikes .
ledezma said those charges were trumped up .
i hope they never send him back , they can keep the vampire , maduro said on friday evening .
the people of madrid will have to be careful at night , the vampire ( is going ) to madrid .
before boarding a private plane to bogota , ledezma said he was planning a global pilgrimage to fight for political freedom in venezuela .
he thanked colombia s government , which also recently gave asylum to another high-profile venezuelan dissident , former state prosecutor luisa ortega .
it s time for him ( maduro ) to step aside and allow a transition government , said ledezma .
maduro can not keep torturing the venezuelan people , he s killing venezuelans with hunger .
the opec nation of 30 million people is suffering a fourth year of brutal recession , with the highest inflation in the world , shortages of food and medicines , and many people having to skip meals or suffering preventable illnesses .
government supporters have long vilified ledezma for supporting a brief 2002 coup and accused him of corruption .
state media repeatedly show a video where a jailed student radical lauds him as an old fox ... the politician who most supported the resistance .
ledezma , along with another opposition leader , maria corina machado , has been part of the more militant wing of venezuela s opposition coalition .
both oppose a planned new political dialogue between the opposition and government scheduled for early december in the dominican republic .
i left my flag with maria corina machado , in whom i trust completely , ledezma told reporters .
ledezma won the caracas mayoralty in 2008 , but some of his functions and funding were quickly transferred to a new , pro-government office .
upstaged by younger opposition leaders , ledezma was not viewed as a future presidential candidate .
intelligence agents took him from his office in caracas in february 2015 .
he was originally held at the ramo verde military prison before being granted house arrest .
machado told reporters ledezma had been under increasing pressure from authorities and had faced threats to return him to ramo verde due to his opposition to the political dialogue .
we believe in real negotiations , but only ones that lead to the exit of the dictatorship , she told reporters .