Trump has no compassion, and he has no empathy.
He only focuses on himself, which is proven with a blog post of supposed condolences, to Hollywood star Kelly Preston after her son died from a seizure in 2009.
His mind is so warped he couldn t even say, I m sorry for your loss, without first going into detail about how he tried to get Preston into his bed, along with bragging about his outstanding record on bedding beautiful women: A long time ago, before I was married, I met Kelly Preston at a club and worked like hell to try and pick her up.
She was beautiful, personable, and definitely had allure.
At the time I had no idea she was married to John Travolta.In any event, my track record on this subject has always been outstanding, but Kelly wouldn t give me the time of day.
She was very nice, very elegant, but I didn t have a chance with her, and that was that.
Seriously.
That was the first thing he said in the he dedicated to her on Trump U. s site.
Only when he was done talking about trying to have sex with her, and how great he is at getting women to have sex with him, did he finally get around to actually saying what ought to be said in such letters: When I later found out she was married to John, I liked and respected her even more.
Some people have values that matter to them, and she is one of them.
Her loyalty was unwavering and I have always remembered that about her.Being true to someone is very close to being true to yourself.
That s a valuable attribute in today s world.
I m sure she was a wonderful mother to Jett and my thoughts are with her and her family after their terrible loss.
He could have left When I later found out she was married to John, out, along with the sheer insensitivity that was the first two paragraphs, but his ego wouldn t let him.
He should have simply said that he knew, liked and respected her as someone who was true to her values, and he was sorry for her terrible loss.
The fact that he couldn t is yet another a clear window into the way he thinks about women.Of course, ever since the Access Hollywood tape came out, we ve all been more acutely aware than ever that Trump is nothing more than a womanizing sexual predator who believes he s entitled to the, ahem, company of beautiful women.
Any remaining delusion any sane person had that this man-boy actually has a heart, though, is now destroyed.This man-child is a piece of primordial slime through to his core.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images