So basically the Obama administration is making it easier for Central American illegals to come to America without just sneaking in.
John Kerry and Obama should be called out on this effort to totally flood America with Central Americans and Muslims.
YOU ARE PAYING FOR THIS!
I cannot stress enough how bad this is for America.
Entire towns have been broken with the influx of refugees .
Now, by expanding the definition of refugee to include the illegal aliens from Central America, we re going to be INCREASING the number on the dole to nearly 100,000.
PLEASE make the effort to contact ANY or ALL of your elected officials to raise heck about this.
WE CANNOT AFFORD THIS!The United States will increase the number of refu gees it admits to allow in more people fleeing violence in Central America, Secretary of State John F. Kerry said Wednesday.In a speech at the National Defense University, Kerry said the expansion of the Refugee Admissions Program will be directed toward people from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, to offer them a safe and legal alternative to the dangerous journey many are currently tempted to begin, making them easy prey for human smugglers who have no interest but their own profits.
The United States already plans to admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in the fiscal year that began in October, but only 3,000 spaces are set aside for Central Americans.
The total allotment is 15,000 more refugees than in the previous year and includes 10,000 Syrians referred by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees under a special vetting process that typically takes 18 to 24 months.
The ceiling for refugees is even higher for 2017, when it will rise to 100,000.Kerry did not say how many more Central American refugees would be admitted and when the expansion would take effect.The State Department said refugees will be selected for resettlement in the United States in collaboration with the UNHCR and a number of nongovernmental agencies it works with to orient and relocate new refugees around the country.
Among those who will be considered in need of refu gee protection are people targeted by criminal gangs, human rights defenders and those who may be at imminent risk of harm.
Since the Syrian crisis began with peaceful anti-government protests in 2011, the United States has donated more than $4.5 billion in humanitarian aid related to Syrians alone.
Most has gone directly to help shelter, feed and clothe refugees, but some has helped governments in neighboring countries that are burdened with massive numbers of refugees.
Officials say that helping refugees near the countries they have fled will prevent them from going to other countries, as has happened in Europe when humanitarian aid to Syrians dried up.Read more: WaPo