The Mayor of London s recent remarks about Barack Obama are causing him more problems than he likely expected.
During a rant about the president s suggestion that the U.K. not leave the European Union, Boris Johnson ripped into the president for his decision to remove a bust of Winston Churchill from the Oval Office: Some said it was a symbol of the part-Kenyan president s ancestral dislike of the British empire of which Churchill had been such a fervent defender.
In reality, the president removed the bust of the British icon, placed there by George W. Bush, to make way for one more relevant to the United States: Martin Luther King, Jr. President Obama says that he had Churchill removed because There s only so many busts you can have before it starts looking a little cluttered in there.
This incident provided us with a macabre ability to feel relieved that other countries have their Tea Parties, as well.
In the United Kingdom, such a group would be the Tories.
The remark was widely condemned as racist, with Labour leaders condemning Johnson s dog whistle remark.
In fact, he was directly compared to the Tea Party:Labour s shadow chancellor John McDonnnell tweeted: Mask slips again.
Boris part-Kenyan Obama comment is yet another example of dog whistle racism from senior Tories.
He should withdraw it.
Fellow Labour frontbencher Diane Abbott said that what Mr. Johnson had written was offensive and echoed words used by the Tea Party right-wing tendency in the US.Former Lib.
Dem.
leader Lord Campbell added that Mr. Johnson s comments were an unacceptable smear , adding: If this is an illustration of the kind of diplomacy that we might expect from a Johnson leadership of the Tory Party then heaven help us.
Now, college students are standing up and refusing to allow the racist mayor to get away with his bigoted rhetoric.
Right-wing lie-factory Breitbart complains that Safe Space Stalinists and footsoldiers of orthodoxy and conformism at King s College are PC-ing up the place.
In fact, they talked it over and decided that they don t want him stinking up their campus.
In an email canceling the mayor s plans to speak to a group of students called King s Think Tank, informed Johnson: The level of discourse over the past few days does not meet the bar we set for these events nor do we feel does it help the British people in making the most momentous decision of our lifetime.
Furthermore, they added, we believe it does not reflect the true greatness of the United Kingdom, a land of tolerance, respect and fair play towards all .Next part of #borisjohnson backlash of his Obama ancestry comments.
Kings College letter withdrawing #EUref invite pic.twitter.com/OUYyQyYDw1 Ryan Heath (@PoliticoRyan) April 24, 2016 Given your inappropriate comments and inferences towards President Obama s Kenyan heritage, of which he is rightly proud, and your general tone of disrespect over the past few days in retaliation to the President of the United States of America, the students said, we are now formally withdrawing your invitation to speak at Kings College London.
Johnson seems to have made the same mistake as Republicans in our country often do: he assumed that because he hates the president and his skin color, the rest of the world feels the same way.
Unfortunately for Johnson, he just received a lesson in how much people all across the globe adore the truly great man who currently occupies the Oval Office.Sorry, Boris.Featured Image via Getty Images (Chris Ratcliffe)/Getty Images (Pool)