A scene from a Donald Trump rally in North Carolina showing a white Trump supporter sucker punching a black protester as The Donald s private police ignore him has been making waves since the incident occurred Tuesday night.
As Rakeem Jones was being escorted out of the event along with a group of others who chose to peacefully speak out against the American Hitler s unabashed hatred of all that isn t white, one of Trump s supporters drew on the numerous permissions his Master has given him to assault black people at rallies and sucker punched Jones.In video captured from multiple angles, Trump s private police force ignores the 78-year-old cowboy hat-wearing white man, now identified as John McGraw of Linden, NC, and piles on the victim of the attack because, after all, this was a Trump rally and people like Jones are considered Untermensch.
Boom, he caught me, Jones told the Washington Post.
After I get it, before I could even fain my thoughts, I m on the ground getting escorted out.
Now I m waking up this morning looking at the news and seeing me geting hit again.
It s happening at all these rallies now and they re letting it ride, Jones said, adding that he was also targeted by the racisl slurs that are typically hurled at black men who attend Trump rallies.
The police jumped on me like I was the one swinging.
He added: My eye still hurts.
It s just shocking.
The shock of it all is starting to set in.
It s like this dude really hit me and they let him get away with it.
I was basically in police custody and got hit.
Yes, it really did seem like McGraw was going to get away with it but thanks to public outcry, the police have no choice but to deal with the problem.
WRAL reports:A 78-year-old Linden man has been charged with assaulting a protester at the rally held in Fayetteville Wednesday for Republican front-runner Donald Trump.John McGraw is charged with assault and battery and disorderly conduct, according to the Cumberland County Sheriff s Office.A video posted on YouTube shows McGraw hitting Rakeem Jones as he was being escorted out of Crown Coliseum by authorities.After being hit, Jones was tackled by law enforcement officials.Amazing and all it took was monumental social media outcry for law enforcement to do the thing that should have been done in the first place.Watch the assault below:Featured image via screengrab