Rand Paul and Carly Fiorina have recently received word that they have been left out of the next Republican presidential debate and one of them isn t taking it very well.Thursday night s GOP debate in North Charleston, South Carolina is set to feature the usual knuckleheads: Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, Ben Carson, Jeb Bush, Chris Christie and John Kasich.
Paul found out that he wasn t included in the debate last night, and couldn t contain his disappointment.
Referring to the slight as a rotten thing to do, Paul posted several angry tweets about his exclusion from the line-up, and even told CNN that he is boycotting the debate and won t participate in anything that s not first tier because we have a first tier campaign.
.
@RandPaul: I will not participate in an undercard debate https://t.co/6OZtrfIwim https://t.co/s27wHk5elS CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) January 11, 2016Fox Business January 14 debate marks the first time only seven candidates will be in the Republican debate, allowing candidates to be included based on the average of the five most recent national polls and the top five candidates in Iowa or New Hampshire.
Paul didn t qualify, but he doesn t want to accept that.
He told CNN: It s a mistake because the thing is we actually have been in the top five or six in most of the recent polls.
In fact, last week in a national poll we were just one point out of fourth place.
So I think it s a mistake to try to exclude me from the national debate.
Continuing his temper tantrum on social media, Paul busied himself with retweeting posts from supporters that painted him in a more favorable light.Rand was so angry, that he also released this statement:And of course when all else failed to get his point across, Paul begged his supporters for donations to prove the media wrong:Paul has not had much luck in the polls, coming in consistently low compared to his fellow GOP candidates but he apparently felt entitled to this debate and felt he should be given the chance to bore voters with his speeches, despite the fact that they ve already proven that they re not interested.
For a man who was once considered the most interesting man in American politics, that s certainly a hard pill to swallow.Featured image via Medill DC / Flickr