The man who wrote the speech for Patricia Smith, a.k.a.
Benghazi Mom, for the GOP convention has found that he no longer recognizes his own party.
This is someone who calls Richard Nixon, of all people, an icon of his.
It s a strange twist of irony that he d write a speech that ended with, If Hillary Clinton can t give us the truth, why should we give her the presidency?
Because Nixon was so honest, but that s beside the point.
Now, Richard Cross says that Hillary is the only choice, despite writing a speech that called her a liar and held her personally responsible for Benghazi.
In an op-ed for the Baltimore Sun, Cross says he s faced with an inconvenient truth about Trump versus Hillary: Despite what I wrote in that nationally televised speech about Hillary Clinton, I may yet have to vote for her because of the epic deficiencies of my own party s nominee I have never voted for a Democrat for federal office, but when I hear the president criticize the GOP nominee, I can t honestly disagree with him.
He feels that the main question of the 2016 election is whether Muslim Americans are full and equal citizens of the U.S., and to him, the answer is yes.
Also, like the rest of the sane world, he thinks Trump s racist, anti-immigrant rhetoric is just plain terrible: Now, the question becomes: Can we come together and find a positive solution to the issue of illegal immigration, just like President Reagan and congressional Democrats were able to achieve?
The answer to that is, we must.'
With the addition of the white supremacy, conspiracy theory-peddling Stephen Bannon as campaign CEO, Trump s message and behavior are only going to get worse.
Paul Manafort and the GOP itself have completely failed to rein him in, and he s surrounded himself with sycophantic clones; the only people who will give him everything he wants (except a win in November).Cross is not thrilled about the prospect of voting for Hillary, and still doesn t have much to say about her that s good.
The idea of voting for her makes him very uncomfortable.
But the man who asked if we can trust her with the presidency when we can t trust her to tell the truth dropped this truth bomb at the end of his op-ed: But the only prospect more terrifying than voting for Hillary Clinton is not voting for her.The reality of American politics today is, she is the only choice.
For someone who was able to compose an entire speech raking her over the coals her for Benghazi, that s a hell of a turnaround.Featured image by Mark Makela/Getty Images