And we wonder how we keep producing snowflakes?
You know, the kind of college kids that can t take no for an answer.
They live in their own world and don t take direction or follow social mores.Just wondering why this mom wouldn t fill this little girl in on how this might now be such a great idea and why Not cute but kinda gross, right?Nothing says you love your child more than saying no and gently guiding them to do the right thing It s never too early to start!FUTURE SNOWFLAKE ALERT!A 3-year-old girl in Missouri named Audrey had every immature adult s dream: a poop-themed birthday party.Audrey s mother, Rebecca, said she went all out for her daughter s second birthday, decorating a pumpkin patch and going a little crazy, she told Babble.
So for the next year, she decided she would do whatever Audrey wanted.
For months, every time we mentioned her party, Audrey requested poop balloons and a poop cake, the mom told The Huffington Post.
I tried suggesting other themes, but she always insisted on poop.
So eventually her mom gave in and decided to have a poo-poo party.But, being an enthusiastic and good mother, this mom didn t just settle for balloons and a cake.
Instead, she went all out, getting a poop pinata, a poop cake, poop cookies, poop costumes, whoopie cushions and a game called pin the poop, per Fox 13.
Think pin the tail on the donkey, but with a toilet and some feces-themed stickers.
Audrey herself wore a shirt with the poop emoji on it.
In the pi ata, the mom placed Tootsie Rolls, Hershey Kisses and other brown candies.
I expected the grandparents to question it, but they all just laughed when I told them She just happens to really, really like poop.
I don t think it ever even occurred to her that it was a strange request As for those who think such a party may be weird or even disturbing, well, this mom doesn t give a crap.
This party wasn t for me, it was for Audrey.
I love that we will look back at pictures, and it will represent her at 3 my funny and quirky little girl I will never forget how excited she was when she came down the stairs and saw everything To see how happy she was, was totally worth whatever embarrassment I felt wearing a poop costume.Read more: Charlotte Observer