Talk about throwing your own party under a bus.
This Trump supporter literally said the GOP has rigged elections and that is supposed to prove that Hillary Clinton has rigged the 2016 Election.Roger Stone is one of Trump s biggest supporters and in defense of the Republican nominee s assertion that the 2016 Election is rigged in favor of Hillary he wrote a column for The Hill in an attempt to demonstrate that Trump is right to be concerned.
Not only did it go badly, but the Republican Party must be totally pissed off about it.That s because Stone claimed that Wisconsin Republicans, under Reince Priebus s leadership, were successful at rigging five elections in the state to make sure things went their way.
As someone with great sentimental attachment to the Republican Party, as I joined as the party of Goldwater, both parties have engaged in voting machine manipulation, Stone claimed before naming names.
Nowhere in the country has this been more true than Wisconsin, where there are strong indications that Scott Walker and the Reince Priebus machine rigged as many as five elections including the defeat of a Walker recall election.
Stone even accused Priebus of orchestrating Ted Cruz s victory over Trump in Wisconsin earlier this year:When the Trump vs. Cruz primary took place, the same pattern emerged again of a Marquette University poll showing a 20 point shift from Trump ahead by 10% to Trump behind by 10%, which was simply absurd.
Shifts like that don t happen over brief intervals of time, absent a nuclear explosion.
It didn t make any sense unless you knew what was going on was an instant replay of Walker s victories.
The machine Priebus built was delivering for Cruz big time.In short, Trump s longtime ally just tried to prove that Hillary could rig the election by accusing Republicans of rigging five elections and a primary in Wisconsin.Of course, this doesn t prove Trump s accusation against Hillary.
What it does do, however, is call into question the trustworthiness of Republicans.
If Reince Priebus is capable of rigging elections in Wisconsin to the point where Republicans can win five of them he is definitely capable of rigging a national election to make sure Republicans gain absolute power even though all of the polls indicate that Trump is losing this election badly.Trump own man just kneecapped the GOP nominee s own claims by shifting the election rigging accusation to Republicans.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images