Infamous Donald Trump spokeswoman Katrina Pierson has once again proven just how pitiful and ridiculous The Donald and his entire team is.
In speaking about President Barack Obama s recent endorsement of Hillary Clinton, Pierson revealed that she actually thinks that supporters of Bernie Sanders are going to switch sides and vote GOP.
Actually, she said with full confidence that she thinks HALF of Sanders fans are going to switch over to team Trump.It doesn t get any more idiotic than this, and it s almost hard to believe.
When Jake Tapper asked Pierson how many Sanders supporters will jump ship to avoid voting for Clinton, Pierson said: I think the polls are showing, one in four, maybe, I think it s going to be half at some point.
There is a transition happening, not just in this country but globally, the consciousness is definitely changing, and younger voters want to see the status quo busted up.
That is absolute madness, and Pierson has mocked the intelligence of Bernie s followers by saying they would vote for a racist, misogynistic Republican.
First of all, Trump has insulted their chosen candidate several times, referring to him as Crazy Bernie.
He s also encouraged violence against Sanders supporters that dare to attend his rallies.
Another thing Trump is in denial about is the fact that Sanders will probably be giving Clinton his endorsement soon, and urge his supporters to throw their support behind the former Secretary of State as well.Now, Sanders fans might not be happy that Clinton is leading the Democratic party, but most of them know that Trump needs to be stopped by any means possible.
According to a recent poll, the real numbers reveal that less than a quarter of Sanders voters might switch over to Trump.
The polls also revealed that 71 percent of Sanders backers would choose Clinton over Trump but when has the Trump campaign ever really been concerned with facts?You can watch Pierson spew this pro-Trump nonsense in the video below:Featured image is a screenshot