Lady Gaga and Julianne Moore are speaking out after the horrific terror attack that left at least 58 people dead and 515 injured in Las Vegas on Sunday night.The Hollywood stars both took to Twitter on Monday, demanding that politicians get to work on enacting stricter gun control laws in the wake of the tragedy, which is now the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history.I mourn this senseless loss of life.
What will it take, #Congress, for you to act?
@Everytown @MomsDemand #endgunviolence https://t.co/6HpuWk9ZLe Julianne Moore (@_juliannemoore) October 2, 2017 Cheap sound bites don t protect innocent lives, read a tweet on Moore s account, as she pointed out this is the eighth mass shooting just this year.It s okay to use guns in violent movies that make money for actresses like the hypocrite, Julianne Moore (see photo below), it s just not okay with her for everyday Americans to use guns to hunt or in self-defense.Lady Gaga took a more direct approach in getting her message out, tweeting at the President and Speaker of the House while stating that blood in on the hands of the men and women of Congress.Prayers are important but @SpeakerRyan @realDonaldTrump blood is on the hands of those who have power to legislate.
#GunControl act quickly.
https://t.co/bXZQ7enuEp xoxo, Gaga (@ladygaga) October 2, 2017Shortly after Lady Gaga blamed President Trump and Congress for the deaths of at least 58 and over 500 injured concertgoers in Las Vegas, she tweeted that she was trying to connect us all through inner peace.
Wow!
How most Americans don t need that kind of sick inner peace.
My intention is to connect us all through inner peace.
I believe we can calm inflammation in the world by calming each other.
#meditation pic.twitter.com/6cUbvdsW09 xoxo, Gaga (@ladygaga) October 2, 2017Gun control Gaga is no stranger to using guns on stage as props, in fact, she s used them quite regularly, but who s counting in Hollywood?
After all, it s not about what celebrities do with guns, it s what the little people (the ones who watch their movies and purchase their music) do with guns that matters to them Nice gun Gaga Gaga is clearly crazy for guns on stage Nice Rolling Stones cover Gaga where d you get the guns?In addition to offering up their condolences and prayers, President Trump and Speaker Ryan also ordered that all flags be flown at half-mast to pay tribute to the victims.That was not enough however for Gaga, who when first commenting on the attack wrote: This is terrorism plain and simple.Terror bares no race, gender or religion.
Democrats & Republicans please unite now #guncontrol.
Daily Mail