The Republican nominee s campaign has bragged about how he will appear on Dr. Oz and allow the television physician to read the results of his latest physical.
I know this that Donald Trump will turn over those records right to Dr. Oz and he will analyze it and it will be a surprise to Donald Trump what Dr. Oz is going to say, Fox News host Brian Kilmeade said on Tuesday.According to The Hill, Trump bragged about undergoing the physical and made predictions.
I did pretty much the whole deal, because I think we should, I think we should do that, Trump added on CNBC s Squawk Box.
Trump predicted his physical would show large numbers and hopefully very good statistics.
I feel very confident, otherwise I probably wouldn t be telling you I did this, right?
Trump asked.
Large numbers are not necessarily a good thing, especially if we are talking about blood pressure.But despite his bragging, Trump has still not released any medical information and he won t be releasing any during his interview with Dr. Oz either.CNN host Brian Stelter reported on Wednesday that just hours before the show taped Trump cowardly backed out of releasing his medical records and letting Dr. Oz read them on the air.
Trump will be talking with Oz about his physical activity, dietary habits, and broader health-related issues.
The plan also calls for Trump to discuss political topics that are of interest to the Dr. Oz Show audience, like efforts to fight the Zika virus and Trump s new child care policies.
So the only thing we know about Donald Trump s health is that all of his lab results are positive according to the ridiculous note written by his alleged physician Dr. Harold Bornstein, which Dr. Jennifer Gunter hilariously shredded on CNN last month.
Lab results aren t reported as being astonishingly excellent or not we give lab values of positive or negative, she explained.
Then there s the fact that he says all of Mr. Trump s results are positive which, of course, would be a bad thing.
When I tell someone they have gonorrhea, when they have a positive test for gonorrhea, they re not happy about that.
That s not astonishingly excellent.
Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images