Megyn Kelly is quite possibly the least popular host on television.
She s also quite possibly one of the highest paid hosts on one of the lowest rated morning shows on television.
In her desperate attempt to do just about anything for ratings, the very unlikeable host went after Fox News and the former top-rated host Bill O Reilly.
Was Kelly s on-air letter an attempt to jump on Hollywood s anti-sexual harassment bandwagon?
Was she hoping to endear herself to a more left-leaning audience, since she clearly has no hope of ever regaining the conservative fans she lost when she attacked then-candidate Trump during a FOX News hosted GOP primary presidential debate?
The NBC News host made the reveal before welcoming former Fox News host and O Reilly accuser Juliet Huddy onto her Monday talk show.Former Fox News host Juliet Huddy spoke out for the first time about her accusations against Bill O Reilly and what women face when going up against a corporation on Monday s Megyn Kelly Today.During an opening segment about this weekend s report of new sexual harassment revelations against O Reilly, former Fox News host Kelly revealed that she, too, had complained about O Reilly s behavior.
She said she understands the roadblocks women see when speaking out about sexual harassment, something an emotional Huddy explained as You are just this one person about to go up against a machine.
It s daunting and frightening and it holds you back from taking action sometimes.
Earlier this year, the New York Times reported that Huddy said O Reilly pursued a sexual relationship with her in 2011 and that when she rebuffed his advances he tried to derail her career.
Allegations included O Reilly calling Huddy repeatedly, sometimes sounding as if he were masturbating, and after asking her to return a key to his hotel room, he appeared at the door in his boxer shorts.
In exchange for her agreement not to sue, she was paid a sum in the high six figures, though 21st Century Fox and O Reilly said her allegations were false.To open the show, Kelly made public for the first time a letter (below) she wrote to the co-presidents of Fox News about O Reilly, displaying the note she sent to Bill Shine and Jack Abernethy during the top of her show while discussing this weekend s Times report about a new sexual harassment settlement made by O Reilly.
Fox News was not exactly a friendly environment for harassment victims who wanted to report, in my experience, Kelly said.
However, O Reilly s suggestion that no one ever complained about his behavior is false.
I know because I complained.
Not so fast Megyn Bill O Reilly immediately revealed 2 handwritten letters from Megyn Kelly where she gushed all over him and how much she appreciated him on his website:My former FNC colleagues Megyn Kelly & Gretchen Carlson wrote me notes when we worked together.
You can read them on https://t.co/rryWmyXe7C Bill O'Reilly (@BillOReilly) October 23, 2017Here are Kelly s letters to O Reilly: O Reilly even took it a step further and released a letter from sexual harassment accuser and former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson:Here is Carlson s letter to O Reilly:Bill Thank you for being the calm in the sea.Thank you so much for supporting me.Thank you for being my friend.It means the world to meGC[Gretchen Carlson]Megyn immediately got hammered on Twitter after O Reilly released her letters to him.
This tweet is from NYC radio talk show host Mark Simone:Yet Megyn Kelly forgets to mention that NBC covered up the Harvey Weinstein story for a year.
Must have had another hard break.
MARK SIMONE (@MarkSimoneNY) October 23, 2017A desperate Megyn Kelly tries a Hail Mary pass to save her ratings disaster show: https://t.co/54BhadCVH2 MARK SIMONE (@MarkSimoneNY) October 23, 2017This is NOT Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, but the Twitter user who goes by the name of Rex Tillerson landed a knockout punch to the former top-rated Fox News host.Ahh, the sweet sound of Megyn Kelly diving off the cliff of relevance & gradually disappearing into the abyss of obscurity.
Rex Tilllerson (@RexTilllerson) October 23, 2017Megyn Kelly has only sexism card left in playing the victim for relevancyThanks for playing, megyn, you're cancelled #MondayMotivation PinkAboutIt (@Pink_About_it) October 23, 2017