On Tuesday afternoon, legendary journalist Dan Rather weighed in on the Trump administration s latest scandal involving former national security advisor Michael Flynn s collusion with Russia.
Watergate is the biggest political scandal of my lifetime, until maybe now.
It was the closest we came to a debilitating Constitutional crisis, until maybe now, Rather began.
He explained that while he rates Watergate as a 9, and the Flynn scandal is only at a 5 or 6 right now, the situation is cascading in intensity seemingly by the hour.
In hindsight, he said, we may one day see that this is at least as big as Watergate.
This is chilling, Rather said.
When we look back at Watergate, we remember the end of the Nixon Presidency.
It came with an avalanche, Rather continued.
But up until then, things had rumbled along with a low-grade intensity.
Things are different this time around.
This Russia story started out with an avalanche and where we go from here no one really knows, he explained.We are still less than a month into the Trump Presidency, and many are asking that question made famous by Tennessee Senator Howard Baker those many years ago: What did the President know, and when did he know it?
Rather noted that recent reports indicate that Trump has been aware of Flynn s treasonous conversations for weeks.
This leads him to ask, how far does this go?
The White House has no credibility on this issue.
Their spigot of lies can t we finally all agree to call them lies long ago lost them any semblance of credibility.
I would also extend that to the Republican Congress, who has excused away the Trump Administration s assertions for far too long.
We need an independent investigation.
Damn the lies, full throttle forward on the truth, declared the famed journalist.
He added that truth is definitely proving to be stranger than fiction when it comes to Trump s scandal-ridden presidency.
If a scriptwriter had approached Hollywood with what we are witnessing, he or she would probably have been told it was way too far-fetched for even a summer blockbuster.
But this is not fiction, Rather said.
It is real and it is serious.
Deadly serious.
We deserve answers and those who are complicit in this scandal need to feel the full force of justice.
You can read Rather s post in its entirety here: Featured image by Robin Marchant via Getty Images for AWXI