Donald Trump might try to tell American voters that he cherishes women, but his long, ongoing history of misogyny and oppressive policies prove that the exact opposite is true and one of his latest moves has just verified this fact even more.The Republican nominee recently made anti-abortion Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, one of his top domestic policy advisors.
Dannenfelser is going to champion Trump s new pro-life coalition , which Trump just announced while also making several statements about all the misogynistic things he s going to do as President of the United States.While introducing his coalition, Trump also promised that he would get anti-abortion justices into the U.S. Supreme Court, nix funding to Planned Parenthood, promote the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and make sure that federal funds couldn t go toward abortion.It should be noted that Dannenfelser was absolutely against Trump at first, and in the beginning of the year had begged Iowa voters to vote for anyone but the business mogul.
However, once The Donald was nominated and demonstrated how extreme his views were, Dannenfelser was more than happy to make the pro-life case for Trump.
Without a doubt, she was probably tickled pink when Trump said that women should be punished for having abortions a few months ago.Dannenfelser s involvement in Trump s campaign should terrify women and anyone who cares about them she not only holds some of the most extreme views on abortion and women s health, but opposes women getting abortions in case of rape and incest, as well as cases in which a woman s health is at risk in carrying out a pregnancy.
Really, you can t get more anti-woman than forcing a woman to die or be constantly reminded of a traumatic, horrifying experience in order to carry out a pregnancy.Dannenfelser is also massively against Planned Parenthood, an organization that provides safe, accessible and affordable healthcare to millions of women.
She even believes that the organization is sexist because it primarily focuses on women s health.
In an interview, she said: I love men!
What about men s health?
I mean, do we have anything to say about men s health and the particular health problems that men have?
Do we ever talk about the men s gap when we re moving into an election?
She s an absolutely nutcase and should not be allowed to have any effect on policies.
To show just how dangerous Dannenfelser is, here are some recordings of her talking about Planned Parenthood and abortion, via Right Wing Watch:Featured image via WPA Pool and Spencer Platt / Getty Images