Several mosques in California have received threatening letters from some of Trump s loyal subjects, which boldly proclaim that Trump is going to clean up America starting with Muslims.
They want him to, in their own words, do to you Muslims what Hitler did to the jews [sic].
The letters were addressed to the children of Satan, and just got worse from there: Your day of reckoning has arrived, the letter states, according to CAIR-LA.
There s a new sheriff in town President Donald Trump.
He s going to cleanse America and make it shine again.
And, he s going to start with you Muslims.
Perhaps they think Trump will be happy to deputize them in whatever crusade he launches against Muslims, and, well, pretty much everyone who isn t obviously white.This group is signing these letters as, Americans For A Better Way, because of course that s what they think they are.This is part of the rash of hate incidents and crimes that have occurred at the hands of Trumpkins since the Nov. 8 election.
In fact, the Southern Poverty Law Center says that there had been more than 700 recorded hate incidents and crimes between the election and Nov. 18.
That s more than seventy such incidents per day, compared to a little more than two anti-Trump incidents per day.
And it s disgusting.
It s terrifying.The Counsel for American-Islamic Relations in L.A. came forward with the letters that went to two mosques there after they learned that a mosque in Northern California had likewise gotten one.
Executive Director Hassam Alyoush said: [People at the mosques are] disheartened that anyone would address fellow Americans, fellow human beings, in such a hateful, dehumanizing way.You always want to trust that most people are good, that your neighbors have been good, and that has been our experience.
Sadly, for a growing number of people, believing that people are generally good is going to become a relic of the past if this keeps up.
While CAIR and other organizations recognize that Trump didn t create racism (and neither did Obama), he did normalize it.
He made it okay.
He vindicated the lunatic fringe and now they re trying to work their way into mainstream dialogue.
Ayloush said the irresponsible, hateful rhetoric of the Trump campaign has fueled a level of vulgarity, vile hatred and anger among many self-proclaimed Trump supporters.'
We can expect more mosques to receive letters like this (or worse), even as police in California begin investigating these incidents and stepping up protection where it s needed.
Trump spends an awful lot of time railing against the media and against Democrats and his enemies, but he needs to rail against this.
Otherwise he s truly the president of hate.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images