Two anti-abortion activists are facing 15 felony charges after they secretly filmed themselves trying to buy aborted fetal tissue from Planned Parenthood.
(In case you missed it, these attempts were unsuccessful because, duh.
But that didn t stop them from editing this video footage and then using it to claim that the women s health provider was selling baby parts.
They weren t.)State Attorney General Xavier Becerra announced the charges against David Daleiden and Sandra Merritt on Tuesday.
The Associated Press reports:The allegations say the pair filmed 14 people without permission between October 2013 and July 2015 in Los Angeles, San Francisco and El Dorado counties.
One felony count was filed for each person.
The 15th was for criminal conspiracy to invade privacy.According to Becerra, Daleiden and Merritt created a fictitious biomedical research company, which they then lied about in order to convince representatives of Planned Parenthood to meet with them and then they secretly recorded them without their knowledge.Daleiden claims these charges are bogus and are only being brought against him because of Planned Parenthood s political cronies.
Naturally.
The public knows the real criminals are Planned Parenthood and their business partners, Daleiden said.
(For the record, the women s health care provider has committed zero crimes.
)Last April, Daleiden claimed on social media that his home had been raided by agents from the California Department of Justice who confiscated all his video footage, among other things.
There had been no word on the investigation since then until the charges were filed with the San Francisco Superior Court on Tuesday.In January of 2016, Daleiden and Merritt were both indicted on similar charges by a grand jury in Texas.
That grand jury had originally been convened to investigate Planned Parenthood, but not only did they find no wrongdoing on the part of the women s health care provider, they also ended up indicting the filmmakers for their bogus video.
Unfortunately, these charges were dropped because the prosecutor said the jury had overstepped since this was not why they were convened.Featured image via Eric Kayne/Getty Images