What a great place to take the whole family!Welcome to the liberal utopia of Germany Things are so bad authorities are posting no defecating in the shower signs.Via Instapundit:The migrants have also tried to storm them women s locker room.
Der Bild reported (translated) via Vlad Tepes:Outrageous accusations coming from the Zwickau Townhall: According to B der GmbH, (Baths Inc.) refugees are masturbating and defecating into the water.
And they also harass women in the Sauna and have tried to storm the women s changing rooms.All this and more is written in a report from January 19th.
Rainer Kallwait, ordinance department leader for B der GmbH, wrote the report for the safety related services of B der GmbH.
The city administration has confirmed the authenticity of the report.Kallweit writes of a memo from Johannisbad Swimming Pool.
In it it says, among other things: One asylum seeker masturbated in the whirlpool and ejaculated into the water.
It is recorded on surveillance camera.
And, The swimming pool supervisor threw him out.
The asylum seeker came back with comrades to get his cell phone.
Together the visitors , hooting and jeering, took a selfie in the whirlpool.
The day before 8 foreign men were in the Sauma .
The local people felt harassed.
When women are in the Sauna, asylum seekers are now told that the Sauna is closed.
In general refugees only have free access to the swimming pool.
They would have to pay for the use of the Sauna.
But they won t do that, according to B der GmbH: When they were prompted to pay up at the register, they turned around, laughed and left.
Similar can be read in a memo of Gl ck-Auf-Schwimmhalle , Halle, in Kallwait s report.
A group of youths, single men and children with guardians visited said pool in Halle on January 9th.
Since none of them could swim, they used the kids pool.
The users contaminated the pool by way of emptying their intestines.
Local guests immediately left the pool.
Here s another sign telling migrants to not grab women s butts at the pool.Via: Gateway Pundit