Sean Hannity needs a safe space because he can t take a joke.For months, the deplorable Fox News host who has been attacking a dead man named Seth Rich in defense of his good buddy Donald Trump has been referring to liberals as snowflakes because they are offended by the things Trump has done.Well, after months of using the term to attack liberals, Hannity committed hypocrisy by whining about an article published by The Onion, a well-known satire publication.Hannity posted the piece on Twitter complaining about how the left think these sorts of things are funny.
The article Hannity is complaining about features Roger Ailes corpse and how a bunch of mini Sean Hannitys burst out of his body.
You know, because Hannity is a parasitic nightmare.What is wrong with the left that they think these sorts of things are funny?
https://t.co/sAxON5xxmh Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) June 1, 2017Again, this is satire.
It s what The Onion does best.
And they don t just make fun of conservatives either.
They make fun of everyone and everything.But Hannity couldn t handle it because unlike liberals, he is a true snowflake and a hypocrite.
And Twitter users mocked him to oblivion for it.It s simple: you remind the writer of a parasitic symbiote that fed on the corpse of the rapist who ran your soon-to-be-former network home Charles Bramesco (@intothecrevasse) June 1, 2017Dude it s The Onion.
Steve Schreiber (@sschreiber13) June 1, 2017This is so offensive.
The only recently fresh corpse Sean Hannity would ever desecrate belongs to Seth Rich.
Jon Bershad (@JonBershad) June 1, 2017Sean did you read their story about the dog speaking at a recent graduation ceremony?
It s outrageous.
https://t.co/U9lpvHUbKh Ben K. (@benyankee) June 1, 2017Since when is @TheOnion part of the left?
They lampoon stupidity.
If they are lampooning you, find a mirror.
(((Ryan Wagman))) (@RAWagman) June 1, 2017What s really funny is all the traffic you re sending toward @TheOnion with this tweet.
It s like you want to make them some money.
Joshua Guess (@JoshuaGuess) June 1, 2017I think it s hysterical, snowflake Bradley Herring (@BEHdc) June 1, 2017Aw, snowflake Sean has been triggered by a satirical publication.
Drumpf Micropenis (@Dons_Angry_Inch) June 1, 2017You need a safe space?
Morty Heureuse (@BNick) June 1, 2017The fact that you don t know this is a parody website is so hilarious and shows how terrible your research skills really are.
Sam Geden (@KaisaJesta) June 1, 2017Once again, Sean Hannity just got his ass handed to him.
Now we just need to wait for him to whine about that like the snowflake he is.Featured Image: Paul Zimmerman/Getty Images