Donald Trump s desperate effort to make people ignore the fact that Russia helped him win the election runs contrary to American values and Van Jones ripped him for it.During a panel discussion on CNN this Sunday about Trump s reaction to Russian interference with our political process, Jones chimed in with a searing takedown.
This is baffling to anybody with a functioning brain stem, Jones began.
We have to be honest about this.
Indeed, the CIA and 17 intelligence agencies along with the FBI all agree that Russia launched a cyber attack against our political institutions with one of the goals being to help Trump beat Hillary Clinton.Now Vladimir Putin will have a puppet in the White House for the next four years who refuses to condemn Russia because it would acknowledge that he is illegitimate.
Yes, other presidents have tried to say nice things about the Russians, Jones continued.
Not in the face of an active attack on the country!
It s true.
Past presidents have made attempts to be friendly toward Russia, but Trump is doing so after our intelligence community just concluded that Russia committed espionage, which is an act of war, against our country.
But Trump is defending Russia instead.
Cyber war is real war, Jones explained.
So you have an active attack on our country and you have the president-elect who cannot find in himself to say this is wrong and it needs to stop.
Jones pointed out that Trump has responded personally and as a partisan to attacks, but has demonstrated an unwillingness to respond as a patriot to an attack on our nation s sacred election infrastructure.
This is an attack on our country!
Jones said in conclusion.
And I just think that everybody sitting here trying to pretend this is normal, this is not normal and it s dangerous.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump recently demanded that China return a United States Navy drone they seized in the South China Sea.
He s more upset about that than the attack on our democracy perpetrated by Russia.
That s unacceptable and it s why Trump is unfit to be president.Featured image via screenshot