It s the first day of Black History Month and Donald Trump was quick to celebrate it inappropriately.February is the month when our country recognizes the long history of African-Americans.
Their achievements and struggles are America s achievements and struggles and we must recognize both to move forward and create a better future.But rather than honor Black History Month with the dignity it deserves, Donald Trump made it all about him instead.During a breakfast in the White House Cabinet Room, Trump said a few words about Black History Month.During this month we honor the tremendous history of the African-Americans throughout our country, throughout the world if you think about it, right?
And this story is one of unimaginable sacrifice, hard work, and faith in America.
And then after giving a shout out to his token black cabinet member Ben Carson, who heads Housing and Urban Development despite having zero experience, he started bitching about and attacking the media over a report on Trump s first day that the Martin Luther King bust had been removed from the Oval Office, a mistake that was quickly corrected the same day but Trump still whines about.
The statue is cherished, it s one of the favorite things, and we have some good ones, we have Lincoln and we have Jefferson, we have Dr. Martin Luther King, he said.Trump then praised Fox News for kissing his ass and once again talked about inner cities as if they are crime-ridden war zones.
I don t like watching fake news.
Fox has treated me very nice, I don t know where Fox is, thank you.
We need more jobs, better wages.
We re going to work very hard in the inner city.
Ben will be doing that, one of his big things.
We need safer communities.
We re going to do that with law enforcement.
We re going to make it safe.
We re going to make it much better than it is right now.
Right now it s terrible.
Not content to just use Black History Month as an excuse to air his petty grievances, Trump chose to pat himself on the back as well.
If you remember, I wasn t going to do well with the African-American community.
And after they heard me speaking and talking about the inner city and lots of other things.
We ended up getting I won t go into details but we ended up getting substantially more than other candidates who had run in the past years.
Hillary Clinton received 88 percent of the black vote on Election Day while Trump only received 8 percent, hardly something to brag about.Trump then gave permission to his black supporters to lavish him with praise.An Ohio pastor told Trump that we love you and actually dared to mention Trump and God in the same breath.
He also somehow kept a straight face while claiming that Trump is a good listener.Trump then returned to bashing the media and whining.
So much of the media is opposition party.
Knowingly saying incorrect things.
It s a very sad situation.
But we seem to be doing well.
You know, it s almost like, in the meantime we won.
So maybe they don t have the influence they think.
They really have to straighten out their act.
They re very dishonest people.
Here s the unbelievable video via YouTube.Basically, Trump said more about Omarosa and his black media surrogates than he did about black history, reducing the names of King, Rosa Parks, and Frederick Douglass to mere footnotes in his remarks and once again demonstrating that he is a disgrace.Featured image via screenshot