Marco Rubio might have been flying high after the results from Iowa, but he well and truly crashed hard at Saturday night s ABC GOP debate in New Hampshire.
Like Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson before him, Rubio watched his Presidential hopes die.There s no way to sugar coat this one Rubio choked.
He likely over-rehearsed, came prepared with his lines all ready, but was then totally unable to respond to spontaneous questions during the debate.
The result?
He churned out the exact same line four times in a row, word-for-word, within minutes, unable to expand on his soundbite.Someone had clearly told Rubio to hit Obama hard, and so he had to keep saying that Republicans need to dispense with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn t know what he s doing.
It landed the first time he said it, but then he just couldn t stop saying it.
It was truly awkward to watch, and you could see the panic in his eyes.
Think about a child in the school play who forgets their next line, so just keeps repeating the last one over and over to a silent audience.
That.Further down the panel, Chris Christie smelled blood and went in for the kill.
He has maintained an attack on Rubio for being too polished and inauthentic, and this played right into that.
But instead of Rubio taking the opportunity to come back at Christie with a counter-attack, he literally went back and repeated his Obama line again.
We re not kidding.
Watch.As AL.com s post-debate roundup puts it:Instead of responding, Rubio repeated the same statements and made Christie looked like his criticism was spot on.
It was a strange exchange and one that seemed to taint the rest of Rubio s debate he ended up repeating himself over and over and looked lost.
He did better later in the debate but it could very well be Rubio s Howard Dean moment.The morning after the debate, with all eyes on Rubio to rally back, the candidate may well have killed his campaign.
Appearing on ABC with George Stephanopoulous, Rubio was asked to respond to critics of his robotic performance.
His answer looked great first time: I would pay them to keep running that clip.
Because that s what I believe passionately.
It s one of the reasons that I m not running for re-election in the Senate.
I m running for president.
But then Stephanopoulos followed up with a rebuttal: But you re getting pounded for repeating that speech.
And then it all fell apart.
Because Rubio had scripted one line, and one line only, to respond to critics that he scripts his lines.
So, he went on repeat again.
I hope they keep running it, he replied.
And I m going to keep saying it because it s true.
And then he said it again.
It s what I believe and it s what I m going to continue to say, Because it s one of the main reasons why I am running.
If you watch the video closely, you might just be able to spot the exact moment where Rubio realizes his Presidential hopes just died.
Featured Image via Screengrab