Self-proclaimed fiscal-conservative Tim Allen cracked a joke about President Obama at the conclusion of the show Last Man Standing on Friday, and let s just say, not only was it not funny, but it wasn t exactly substantiated in fact either.Here s what he had to say: So, if you re a young person not exactly sure where life is taking you, that s okay.
We can t all be Barack Obama and have our first job be president.
In case Tim Allen wasn t aware, here s a full list of every single job President Obama has had before being elected.
We can assure you, being president wasn t his first, not by a long shot.Tim Allen may think he s funny, but unfortunately for him, his joke isn t even close to being even halfway true.
But, while we re on the subject perhaps we should discuss one of Tim Allen s first jobs.
Typically, we wouldn t bring up somebody s past in such a light, but Allen brought it up first.
In 1978, Allen was arrested for cocaine possession and almost spent life in prison.
And, it was no small amount he had over 650 grams on him.
That s a lot of Columbian snow.
Does Allen really want to compare his list of previous jobs with the president?
We didn t think so.This wasn t the first time Allen has used jokes on the show to make fun of President Obama, either.
Back in October, he blamed Obama for not being able to have a pit underneath his car.
We must admit, this joke, however, was kind of funny.
It helped that Jay Leno was on the show, backing him up.
You have a pit.
I ve always wanted a pit.
You can t have a pit these days cause of zoning laws.
(Because of) Obama.
Tim Allen has repeatedly gone on television and proclaimed himself to be a conservative and every single time he has showed us how little he actually knows.
One of his most recent talk show appearances was when he went on Sean Hannity and discussed his story on why he considers himself to be a conservative: I like problem-solving.
And a lot of it is about how are we going to pay for this?
In my neighborhood, we wanted to put in trees, (but) here in communist California it s difficult because there are so many regulations.
Perhaps Tim should do some fact-checking first the next time he decides to talk about fiscal-conservativism.
According to The Atlantic, a conservative publication, GOP presidents have been the WORST contributors to the federal debt.
Just take a look at the chart below.
The last four Republican presidents all significantly contributed to the national debt.Numbers don t lie, but people do.Pic via The AtlanticFeatured image via screen capture.