Remember that explosive Russian dossier from a few months that revealed Donald Trump s collusion with Moscow and affinity for pee pee parties?
At the time, the document (supposedly written by a British spy) was considered too questionable to be believed.
But now, it appears that at the dossier may be more legitimate than originally thought.CNN reported on Tuesday that the FBI deemed the Russian dossier reliable enough to obtain a FISA warrant against Trump aide, Carter Page.
Sources added that FBI Director James Comey had also used the document to bolster [the FBI s] investigation during his testimony to Congress.According to CNN, the dossier alleges that Page met senior Russian officials as an emissary of the Trump campaign, and discussed quid-pro-quo deals relating to sanctions, business opportunities and Russia s interference in the election.
CNN REPORTING JUST NOW: FBI used dossier of alleged Russian ties to Trump s campaign as part of the justification to get FISA approval.
/1 Marshall Cohen (@Marshall_Cohen) April 18, 2017The FISA was to monitor the communications of Carter Page, who was a foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign at the time.
/2 Marshall Cohen (@Marshall_Cohen) April 18, 2017Page s trip to Russia in July 2016 drew the FBI s attention and raised concerns of his contacts with suspected Russian operatives.
/3 Marshall Cohen (@Marshall_Cohen) April 18, 2017Page tells CNN he will sue Obama admin.
officials for civil rights violations.
(Remember: He asked Comey to investigate this.)
/4 Marshall Cohen (@Marshall_Cohen) April 18, 2017So the FBI used the dossier as part of its justification to get Page FISA.
Even though FBI has distanced itself from the dossier lately.
/5 Marshall Cohen (@Marshall_Cohen) April 18, 2017As CNN points out, the fact that the FBI used the dossier to obtain a FISA warrant means that they believe at least parts of it are true.
Officials familiar with the process say even if the application to monitor Page included information from the dossier, it would only be after the FBI had corroborated the information through its own investigation, noted the network.Featured image via Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images