Not long ago, the hacker collective known as Anonymous declared war against Michigan s Republican governor Rick Snyder in a new campaign called #OpFlint.
The declaration came, as they always do, in the form of a slick YouTube video, where they called for Snyder s arrest.
Less than 24 hours after Anonymous released the video, a major cyber-attack has been confirmed in Flint.Anonymous did not make any specific details on what action(s) they will take in order to help the people of Flint.
They say in the video, that We must remind the city officials of Flint we do not forget and we do not forgive, the spokesperson in the video says.
The crimes committed by Gov.
Snyder as well as other city officials will not go unpunished.
The next day a cyber-attack rocked the Hurley Medical Center.
That s the hospital where Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha first noticed there were elevated levels of lead in children s blood in Flint.Here s the video: Hurley Medical Center has IT systems in place, which aid in detecting a virus or cyber-attack, hospital spokeswoman Ilene Cantor said.
As such, all policies and protocols were followed in relation to the most-recent cyber-attack on our system.
Patient care was not compromised and we are closely monitoring all systems to ensure IT security is consistently maintained.
It hasn t been confirmed that the cyber-attack is connected to Anonymous.
However, it would be a pretty big coincidence for Anonymous to make this threat, and then for a completely random hack to occur.
I think it is pretty safe to assume that if it was Anonymous who did hack the Hurley Medical Center, it was in an effort to get info on the situation.
Not to actually harm the hospital.
Or at the very least, to let the Snyder administration know that they mean business.Speaking of Snyder, he should be very concerned about the potential threat of a massive data breach.
In his State of the State address on Tuesday, Snyder promised he would release all of his e-mails in a show of transparency.
That promise just turned out to be another slap to well, at this point, the entire nation, who is watching him like a hawk.
Here is an example of what transparency means to Snyder:That s not the kind of bullsh*t you want to be pulling with a hacker group breathing down your neck.
With all things Anonymous, it is important to maintain a healthy dose of skepticism.
That being said, it will be interesting to see if they escalate their fight with Snyder and the rest of his cronies in the near future.
Especially since his administration has landed Michigan s government the honor of being ranked worst in transparency.Featured Image Credit: Video Screenshot via YouTube