(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to soon end an Obama-era policy that protects nearly 800,000 immigrants who entered the country illegally as children, a senior administration official said on Thursday.
In the past, Trump has sometimes seemed supportive of the program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.
At other times he blasted it.
Following are some of Trump’s comments on the so-called Dreamer policy: February 16, 2017, news conference at the White House - “We’re gonna show great heart, DACA is a very, very difficult subject for me, I will tell you.
To me, it’s one of the most difficult subjects I have because you have these incredible kids.
In many cases, not in all cases.
And some of the cases, having DACA and they’re gang members and they’re drug dealers, too.
But you have some absolutely, incredible kids, I would say mostly.
They were brought here in such a way - it’s a very - it’s a very, very tough subject.
We’re gonna deal with DACA with heart....
But the DACA situation is a very, very - it’s a very difficult thing for me because you know, I love these kids, I love kids, I have kids and grandkids.
And I find it very, very hard doing what the law says exactly to do and you know, the law is rough.” November 28, 2016, interview with TIME Magazine - “We’re going to work something out that’s going to make people happy and proud....
They got brought here at a very young age, they’ve worked here, they’ve gone to school here.
Some were good students.
Some have wonderful jobs.
And they’re in never-never land because they don’t know what’s going to happen.” February 15, 2016, press conference in Hanahan, S.C. - “Wait, you mentioned dreamers.
I want dreamers to come from the United States.
I want the people in the United States that have children, I want them to have dreams also.
We’re always talking about dreamers for other people.
I want the children that are growing up in the United States to be dreamers also.
They’re not dreaming right now.” August 16, 2015, NBC’s “Meet the Press” - “We’re going to keep the families together.
We have to keep the families together...But they have to go...We will work with them.
They have to go.
Chuck, we either have a country, or we don’t have a country.
Either we have a country or not.”