A new ad by the Hillary Clinton SuperPac Priorities USA was released on Tuesday.
It s perhaps the most frightening of all because it directly quotes Trump saying, I love war, and specifically, he loves nuclear war.Here s the ad:FactCheck did their due diligence with the ad and the biggest complaint they could find is that the direct quotes from Trump came from two different times.
Still, here are his entire quotes:Trump, Nov. 12, 2015: This is the Trump theory on war.
But I m good at war.
I ve had a lot of wars of my own.
I m really good at war.
I love war, in a certain way, but only when we win.And then the second half, a few months later he talked about nukes:Trump: It s not like, gee whiz, nobody has them.So, North Korea has nukes.
Japan has a problem with that.
I mean, they have a big problem with that.
Maybe they would in fact be better off if they defend themselves from North Korea.Wallace: With nukes?Trump: Maybe they would be better off including with nukes, yes, including with nukes.So, now that we ve confirmed that yes, Trump does love war, how is his campaign going to spin that?Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway appeared on Good Morning America on Wednesday and it was clear she was out of her league, even though most of the questions weren t that hard hitting.At first, she deflected:Conway responded that what is actually irresponsible is taking little, cherry-picking little snippets of what he said and not giving the full context of the sentence let alone the speech.
This woman was secretary of state for four years.
And I think the reason she s struggling in the polls part is because aren t really fond of that record and she will be held account for that record, Conway said, ripping into Clinton over her recent polling troubles.
She s actually been in control of many aspects of our national security and our troops and our defense and I think that given all of her advantages, including her super PAC including her campaign hang spent over $200 million most in paid advertising one wonders why is she not at 50, 60 percent in the polls.
Why isn t she at 60, 65 percent among women?
Hillary Clinton has a Hillary Clinton problem.
Source: PoliticoWhen pressed further, she still had no explanation: I d have to see the entire snippet there but obviously many commanders in chief have made the very difficult decision to go to war, Conway responded.
You have Hillary Clinton as secretary of state calling a Russia reset that didn t work, she was wrong on Libya, she was wrong on Syria, she was certainly wrong on Benghazi and I think they ll both be held to account for that.
Here s her spin: ABC Breaking News | Latest News VideosThe fact is that Trump does love war and he has no concept whatsoever of the ramifications of his actions.
In a national security briefing, Trump asked three times why we can t use nuclear weapons.
If you aren t frightened by Trump s racism, sexism or xenophobia, please be frightened by the fact that he has complete disregard for the damage war, and in particular, nuclear weapons, can inflict.
Be frightened over his dangerous stupidity.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.