Hillary is failing miserably with the young voters.
In her wildest dreams, she couldn t have imagined running neck-and-neck with a 74 year old rumpled Socialist.
More importantly, she couldn t have imagined Sanders would run away with the youth vote.
Bernie Sanders has endeared throngs of young voters by offering taxpayer funded Free sh*t, but in the last few rounds of primary votes, it appears that isn t enough, as he continues to fall behind the candidate who is under FBI investigation.
It sure makes one wonder what dirt Hillary is holding over Obama s head, as this recent shift of allegiance to team Hillary comes as a surprise to many.
It s been pretty clear for the past seven years that there is no love lost between Barack and the Clinton s.In unusually candid remarks, President Obama privately told a group of Democratic donors last Friday that Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont was nearing the point at which his campaign against Hillary Clinton would end, and that the party must soon come together to back her.Mr.
Obama acknowledged that Mrs. Clinton was perceived to have weaknesses as a candidate, and that some Democrats did not view her as authentic.But he played down the importance of authenticity, noting that President George W. Bush whose record he ran aggressively against in 2008 was once praised for his authenticity.Mr.
Obama made the remarks after reporters had left a fund-raising event in Austin, Tex., for the Democratic National Committee.
The comments were described by three people in the room for the event, all of whom were granted anonymity to describe a candid moment with the president.
The comments were later confirmed by a White House official.Mr.
Obama chose his words carefully, and did not explicitly call on Mr. Sanders to quit the race, according to those in the room.
Still, those in attendance said in interviews that they took his comments as a signal to Mr. Sanders that perpetuating his campaign, which is now an uphill climb, could only help the Republicans recapture the White House.Mr.
Obama s message came at a critical juncture for Mr. Sanders, who had just upset Mrs. Clinton in the Michigan primary and has been trying to convince Democrats that his campaign is not over, despite Mrs. Clinton s formidable lead in delegates.
Via: NYT sSen.
Bernard Sanders call for a political revolution has resonated with a growing segment of Democratic voters who are committed to his message but who, party leaders fear, will walk if he s not the eventual presidential nominee.Some of those voters tell pollsters they doubt they could support Hillary Clinton, Mr. Sanders chief competition for the party s nod, saying she s part of the very establishment the maverick Vermont senator is fighting against.
Other Democrats say Mrs. Clinton would only earn their grudging support, leaving the party fearful of a catastrophic split.
Via: Washington Times I don t think there s going to be a lot of change if Clinton wins, said Cronk, 21.
Like many younger voters, he s especially alarmed by income inequality, the issue that Sanders has made a centerpiece of his campaign.
The Clintons don t really stand in that position very well.Clinton s weakness with younger voters has stood out consistently this year she lost Democratic primary voters who are aged 18 to 29 by 70 points in Iowa, 68 points in New Hampshire and 25 points on Super Tuesday, when she won seven of the 11 states in play for Democrats.
Hillary s weakness with millennials has to be very worrisome for the Democratic Party, said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democrat Network, a center-left advocacy group.
What you re seeing is the millennial generation has essentially seceded from the Democratic establishment.
Obama s presidential campaigns showed the power of voters under 30, who gave him 2-1 support in both 2008 and 2012.
In 2016, even more millennials than Baby Boomers are eligible to vote, and they make up a large share of potential voters in battleground states such as Ohio, Pennsylvania and Iowa, demographers say.For months, Clinton tried to connect with younger voters through famous supporters such as singer Katy Perry and actor Lena Dunham.
She embraced the anti-police-brutality movement Black Lives Matter, spearheaded by young African-Americans, and vowed to expand President Obama s deportation relief for young people in the country illegally and their families.
She promised debt-free college for all, only to be one-upped by Sanders pledge of free college for all.Clinton has acknowledged she s fallen short, saying she has to work harder to convince young people she will help them.
When an Iowa college student asked her in January why so many other youths found her dishonest, Clinton blamed decades of Republican attacks.
Via: Florida Politics