What a treat!
Laura Ingraham interviewed President Trump Senior Policy Adviser Stephen Miller tonight:Miller has been spot on from the beginning of his tenure as Senior Adviser to Trump He often warmed up the Trump rally crowds with incredibly uplifting speeches.
He also gave a great speech about why not to vote for Hillary:Trump spokesperson Stephen Miller just hammers Hillary Clinton!
You will love every minute of this!The guy is so dialed in on immigration and what needs to be done to reform it.
One million people come into the U.S. yearly!
300K in the 70 s, 500K in the 80 s and now 1 million!
NUTS!Ingraham pivots to speak about polls and the media Note that he calls the media the extreme media LOL!
Who doesn t love that new term?Ingraham discusses Trump s agenda and the populist movement.
It s about trade, immigration, public safety to help ALL Americans.Uplifing everyone is the key!SOME BACKGROUND ON MILLER S RISE TO TRUMP S INNER CIRCLE:When Jeff Sessions first looked at Stephen Miller, he saw potential in the recent Duke University graduate.Miller, then in his early 20s, took up an offer from the conservative author David Horowitz to visit Capitol Hill to introduce him to members of Congress.
Horowitz believed that Miller, who penned conservative columns at Duke and in Horowitz Front Page Mag, would be a capable D.C. staffer.
A meeting with Sessions was on the top of Miller s Washington wish list.
What was supposed to be a 15-minute meeting became an hour-long meeting with the senator, Stephen Boyd, Sessions former communications director who eventually hired Miller.
Sen.
Sessions immediately saw that Stephen Miller was an extraordinary young man who had a deep grasp of conservative politics.
It wasn t only Sessions who saw something in Miller.When Donald Trump takes the oath of office on Friday, the 31-year-old Miller will be one of the president s closest confidants, serving as a senior White House advisor.
That title, announced last month, comes after Miller worked as a senior policy advisor for the better part of a year on the Trump campaign.
Trump also tasked Miller with writing his speech to the Republican National Convention, and initial reports indicated that Miller would be writing the inaugural address.
The Trump camp is now saying that the president-elect wrote that one himself, although New York Magazine poked some holes in that claim.While Sessions did not have an opening for Miller at the time of that first meeting nearly 10 years ago, he told Boyd to put him on his radar.
He came out and he said to me, I want you to keep an eye on him and see if he can be a part of our team one day,' Boyd recalled.
After working as a press secretary to two House members, Miller was hired as a communications staffer on the Judiciary Committee, where Sessions was the top Republican.
I remember setting up a staff and it was Friday afternoon, and I got the go-ahead to hire a press secretary just to work on Judiciary.
[Sessions ] directions were very clear and he and I discussed it that it was obvious this was a kid with a lot of talent, Boyd said.Miller would move up the ranks from a Judiciary Committee staffer to press secretary for Sessions office, eventually rising to communications director when Boyd departed to become chief of staff to Rep. Martha Roby, R-Montgomery, in 2012.
Miller could not be reached for this story.On the surface, there didn t seem to be much in common between Sessions, who grew up near Selma, and Miller, who was raised in liberal Southern California.The turning point for Miller came after the Sept. 11 attacks, when he was disgusted with how his high school in Santa Monica ridiculed President George W. Bush and how the liberal-leaning faculty banned conservatives like Horowitz and talk show host Larry Elder from speaking at the school but allowed leftists and a Communist to address the student body, according to an interview he gave to the Los Angeles Times.
During that dreadful time of national tragedy, anti-Americanism had spread all over the school like a rash, Miller wrote in a 2003 essay, How I Changed My Left Wing High School, which Horowitz published.
The co-principal broadcasted his doubts about the morality of the air strikes against the Taliban to the entire school via the PA system.
One teacher even dragged the American flag across the floor as we were sending off brave young men to risk their lives for it.
It was then that I first took action, writing to prized radio personality Larry Elder.
He invited me to discuss these issues on his program, which immediately drew the ire of the teachers, administrators, and even my fellow students.
Their resistance only strengthened my resolve.
Miller continued his conservative advocacy at Duke, when he gained attention for defending the white lacrosse players accused of raping a black stripper (the players were ultimately exonerated) at a time when public opinion was against them.
His position led to appearances on cable news, further raising his profile.
Three of our fellow students are being put on trial not because of evidence but because of a DA s incompetence and malice, he wrote in the university s student paper.
Sadly, many in the community have shown that they are not fair minded but would rather hunt for witches than search for justice.
Miller s writings were one of the main factors in Boyd hiring him.
I focused on his material he had written for the other two members of the House.
I was very impressed he had a column in college and he was a very good writer, Boyd recalled.
I was impressed with his intellect, I was impressed with his grasp of politics.
I was impressed with his ability to get the core of the matter and articulate it in a way [the public would] understand.
Sessions office later found out that Miller had an uncanny ability to channel the senator s when dealing with the press.
Colleagues of Miller s and Sessions told Politico that the two had a mind meld, a quality that Boyd also attested to.
Miller has demonstrated an ability to capture the voice of his boss in a way that is very important and also exceeds the ability of most Capitol Hill staff, Boyd said.That voice was mostly flexed on immigration, where explained Sessions views to the public.When his boss was accused by pro-immigration groups of being a demagogue for his opposition to an unsuccessful 2010 bill to grant illegal immigrants amnesty for enrolling in college or enlisting in the military, Miller stuck to the issue instead of responding with another attack.
The DREAM Act is a proposal for mass amnesty that would even include those who have committed serious criminal offenses, he told AL.com in November 2010.
It would add millions of newly authorized workers at a time when Americans are struggling with high unemployment and recession.
Besides being a conduit between the senator and the media, Miller also played a role on policy matters; he was instrumental in helping Sessions derail the Gang of Eight immigration reform bill in 2014 that would have given illegals a pathway to citizenship.
Miller helped put together a briefing book for Republicans filled with talking points and data to bolster their case.
We had been working on the ideas in it for months, and Stephen put it in the handbook in a very quick time in a very cogent fashion, Sessions told Politico.
It was very timely and it impacted the outcome of the vote.
Boyd said Miller s involvement on policy was unusual for a communications staffer.
It is rare, although in his case I think it speaks to his grasp on the issues and his understanding as they impact the average man and woman, Boyd said.
There s no doubt that there was a great trust between Sen.
Sessions toward Stephen Miller and they made a great team.
Miller s having switched to a high-level position on Trump s team at a relatively young age does not come as a shock to Boyd, who said his former colleague has adeptly articulated Trump s views.
I think personally that Miller was one of the first people to really understand the deep frustration that the American working class is feeling, their concerns with open borders and trade policies that hurt them more than they help, and also brought an ability to channel that energy toward president-elect Trump, he said.Steve Bannon, former Breitbart News CEO and Trump s campaign manager who will join Miller in the White House as chief advisor to the president, said Sessions work in the Senate with Miller s input paved the way for Trump s candidacy.
Whether the issue was trade or immigration or radical Islam, for many years before Donald Trump came on the scene, Sen.
Sessions was the leader of the movement and Stephen was his right-hand man, Bannon told Politico in their June profile of Miller.What started out as the potential of a recent college graduate has turned into high expectations for Miller.