Marcus Lemonis has no problem with some customers taking their RV and outdoor needs elsewhere.
Close followers of NASCAR know Lemonis, CEO of Camping World, is a major player in the sport.
His brand is the title sponsor of the truck racing series, while its subsidiary Overton s has sponsored multiple races and cars this season.Amid the flood of CEOs rushing to distance themselves from Trump s business councils after the U.S. president s wishy-washy denunciation of white supremacy last weekend, Lemonis on Wednesday appeared on CNBC s Power Lunch, where he seemed to suggest he wouldn t be shattered if people who supported Trump s comments decided to shop elsewhere.
Marcus, you have a consumer-facing business, Camping World, CNBC s Michelle Caruso-Cabrera asked.
So do you worry about, if you were on one of these councils, would you worry, thinking, wow, I ve got to deal with consumers every day, are they going to look at the business poorly because I m associated with the White House?
Lemonis response: There s no doubt that there is probably not many consumers in this country today that are in favor of what has been said in the last couple days and if they are, frankly, don t shop at my business.
Lemonis hasn t been shy about criticizing Trump and NASCAR chairman Brian France who last year endorsed Donald Trump for president, for their past political views.
He ripped France for endorsing Trump at a rally during last year s presidential election, and NASCAR was forced to move its postseason truck series banquet from Trump National Doral Miami resort in 2015 after Lemonis threatened not to attend.
NESNOne day later, Martin said he regretted his remarks after Camping World CEO Marcus Lemonis called him (Translation: The major NASCAR sponsor pressured him into publicly regretting his remarks ):https://twitter.com/markmartin/status/899688975371206662Two days later, Martin posted an image of the Winnebago he would no longer be purchasing.
He clearly appears to be sticking to his original statement.This was the @Winnebago i was wanting.
Would have been fun for short trips.
Probably wouldn't have used it much anyway.
pic.twitter.com/ma8wROB43q Mark Martin (@markmartin) August 22, 2017