Kellyanne Conway is a complete hypocrite who has no soul and CNN host Jake Tapper proved it.Tapper grilled Conway during a recent forum at Harvard Kennedy School s Institute of Politics in which Conway claimed that because Donald Trump is the president-elect that means his petty tweets are presidential behavior.
I will tell you that the president-elect looks at his social media accounts combined 25 million, probably more at this point, users on Twitter and Facebook as a very good platform which to convey his messages, Conway told the student who asked the question.
He s a unique person who s been following his instincts and his judgement from the beginning.
But Tapper, who as a CNN host has seen Trump s many hissy fits over CNN coverage, couldn t believe what he was hearing.Tapper pointed out that Trump s claim that 3 million people voted illegally was totally false and further pointed out that Trump routinely posts petty attacks against individuals who criticize him.
Is that really presidential behavior, he asked.
Well, he s the president-elect, Conway replied.
So that s presidential behavior, yes.
As the audience gasped in shock because Trump s behavior is definitely NOT presidential, Tapper brough up an interesting point.
So the things that Bill Clinton did in the Oval Office that you criticized, those were presidential?
Tapper cleverly asked.
You are saying if the president does it, it s presidential?
Conway acted shocked that Tapper would dare compare Trump to Bill Clinton, but we are talking about a man who said he liked to grab women by the p*ssy without permission.Tapper told Conway that just because a president does something it doesn t make it presidential.
I wasn t saying otherwise, Conway claimed.
And then the audience laughed at her.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump s behavior over the last year and a half is not presidential, but Conway insists that everything Trump does now is presidential simply because he s the president-elect.
And that means Conway demonstrated her hypocrisy by whining when Tapper asked if Bill Clinton getting a blow-job in the Oval Office is presidential.
After all, if the president does it, it must be presidential, right?Seriously, how does Kellyanne Conway live with herself?Featured Image: Screenshot