Donald Trump came in second place in the Iowa caucus, and while it may not seem like a bad position to be in, it s a disaster for his campaign.
Trump has always positioned himself as a winner and painted everyone lower than him in the polls as losers.
He used his supposed popularity in the polls to justify all manner of nasty hate speech and shameful policies.
His entire candidacy is hinged on him being the best.
And he just lost.Second place might as well be last place.
And nobody seems to believe that more than Donald Trump and the internet couldn t wait to remind him about it.During Trump s long, mind-numbing, career on Twitter, he s repeatedly recycled a favorite quote of his from Walter Hagen: No one remembers who came in second.
He tweeted it in 2013, and liked it so much that he then tweeted it again in 2014.Needless to say, the silly message stuck in people s minds, especially tonight when Trump found himself falling short to his rival Ted Cruz by a considerable margin.
He may very well become the second place finisher that no one remembers.LOVE THIS QUOTE Cited by The Donald, Especially Tonight: Think It'll Haunt His Campaign?
#IowaCaucus #uspoli #Iowa pic.twitter.com/zGOt7GiUib Jim Harris (@JimHarris) February 2, 2016It will be fascinating to see how Trump handles losing.
If history is any indication, he ll react very poorly.
Throughout his campaign, we ve seen that any time his poll numbers started to slide or another candidate started to emerge as a threat, Trump has lashed out with ugly aggression.
In a telling example, Trump was very friendly with Cruz when Cruz had no chance, but as he established himself, Trump quickly turned on him even going full-birther on the Canadian born senator.Even more embarrassing for Trump, his No one remembers who came in second tweet began going viral.
Having been dormant for years, suddenly just after Trump s loss in Iowa, the 2013 tweet began getting thousands of retweets.
No one remembers who came in second.
Walter Hagen Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 30, 2013Perhaps, that will be Trump s legacy.
Paradoxically taken down by the very blustering egomania that gave him a platform in the first place.
Trump has gained thousands of fans by loudly claiming he wasn t a loser what happens when they start to wander if maybe he is one after all?
Feature image via Gage Skidmore/Flickr