Remember when President Barack Obama s Attorney General Loretta Lynch just happened to get a surprise visit in Phoenix, while on the tarmac at the airport, from the husband of the Democrat candidate for President, former President Bill Clinton?
Have Americans already forgotten, that the secret meeting between Lynch and Bill Clinton took place only hours before the DOJ was about to release their report on Benghazi?
Remember when Loretta Lynch told the media that their secret meeting was primarily social and was mostly about grandchildren and golf?
Primarily?
Watch:As previously reported by Gateway Pundit, Judicial Watch forced the FBI to admit it has 30 new documents related to the infamous Clinton-Lynch tarmac meeting in mid-October.This is after the FBI originally told Judicial Watch they couldn t locate any records related to the tarmac meeting.Fitton blasted the FBI!
The FBI is out of control.
It is stunning that the FBI found these Clinton-Lynch tarmac records only after we caught the agency hiding them in another lawsuit.
Judicial Watch will continue to press for answers about the FBI s document games in court.
In the meantime, the FBI should stop the stonewall and release these new records immediately.
Previous tarmac meeting documents released were redacted by the DOJ not Obama s DOJ, Trump s DOJ under Jeff Sessions!
The talking points are completely blacked out you heard that right.
They re blacked out.
Again, they weren t blacked out by Attorney General Lynch, they weren t blacked out by James Comey, they weren t blacked out by Barack Obama.
They were blacked out by the Justice Department run by Attorney General Sessions, an appointee of President Trump.
Isn t that outrageous?
Today, Judicial Watch president, Tom Fitton blasted James Comey, and the FBI for lying about the documents they were hiding about the Clinton-Lynch tarmac meeting on Twitter:FBI Hid Clinton/Lynch Tarmac Meeting Records.
But the cover-up begins to end thanks to @JudicialWatch the day after tomorrow.
@RealDonaldTrump needs to clean house at FBI/DOJ.
https://t.co/tytBp28sYL Tom Fitton (@TomFitton) November 28, 2017