Everyone is rightfully stunned and outraged that Donald Trump decided to inexplicably fire the man who was investigating his 2016 presidential campaign s ties to Russia, Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey.
People are (also rightfully) suggesting that this firing is all part of a cover-up an attempt to squash the Russia investigation.
While there was likely nervousness related to the Russia investigation that went into this decision, there is a much more Trumpian reason for it, according to Politico: a Trump temper tantrum over the media s coverage of the criminal probe into the possibility of Trump/Russia collusion.Comey recently testified on Capitol Hill that there is an ongoing investigation into Russia s 2016 election meddling.
Said probe includes the possibility that Trump campaign officials coordinated with the Russians in an attempt to tip the election to Trump.
Of course, Trump was outraged at this public scrutiny, and his ego cannot take the idea that anything but his own supposed brilliance won him the election.
From Politico:He had grown enraged by the Russia investigation, two advisers said, frustrated by his inability to control the mushrooming narrative around Russia.
He repeatedly asked aides why the Russia investigation wouldn t disappear and demanded they speak out for him.
He would sometimes scream at television clips about the probe, one adviser said.So, there you have it.
Trump was angry that Comey s testimony had brought the Russia story that refuses to go away back into the spotlight, and he was angry at his and his staff s inability to control it.
Trump has reportedly been considering getting rid of Comey for roughly a week, which would mean that it was right around the time of Comey s Capitol Hill testimony that the easily agitated president put his FBI Director in the line of fire over Russia.This is nothing short of a Constitutional crisis.
We have no choice but to DEMAND a 9/11-style independent commission on Russia, as well as a special prosecutor for this case.
No one appointed by Trump ESPECIALLY Attorney General Jeff Sessions should be anywhere near this probe.This isn t partisan.
This is about the soul of the republic, and we must get to the bottom of this, even as Trump continues to make Nixonian moves in fits of rage and attempts at cover-ups.Featured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images