Bristol Palin had something to say and pondered some questions after Tina Fey roasted her mommy on Saturday Night Live over the weekend.Last week, America s village idiot returned to the political stage to endorse Donald Trump in a rambling incoherent speech that has been lampooned repeatedly by comedians across the country.Frankly, Chris Hardwick s mockery of Palin s speech on Comedy Central s @Midnight has been my favorite thus far.But on Saturday, Tina Fey received yet another opportunity to mock Palin in what became an instant classic opening segment on the long-running NBC sketch comedy program.And of course, Sarah Palin s demon spawn couldn t resist taking shots at Tina Fey making fun of her looks and the way she sounds.Bristol Palin commented on the Saturday Night Live sketch on Monday by asking Who wore it better- Sarah Palin or Tina Fey?
in reference to the jacket worn by both ladies.
Anyway, I think it s funny that the producers of SNL couldn t get their hands on the same top my mom wore, because it was sold out, the failed abstinence advocate wrote.
I have to admit, the shirt looked great.
But I still think my mom wore it better.
She then included a poll, which everyone should totally add their vote to, asking who wore it better.But that s not all.As mentioned earlier, Bristol also trashed Fey s impersonation of her mom and her looks.
I m sure many of you saw Tina Fey, who sounds nothing like my mom, do a skit based on my Mom s endorsement of Donald Trump.I don t know about you, but hearing her fake accent is like nails on a chalkboard for me!I may be biased, but I think my mom trumps her in the looks department.
(Especially for having three more kids and seven more years on Tina!
)Saturday Night Live and Fey have been clinging to this impersonation a little too long.
It s getting pathetic.
Its been 7 years!
Are they desperate for content?
Or just desperate for viewers?
In the interest of fairness- after all, Bristol did say she may be biased - here s a poll asking who s voice sounds like nails on a chalkboard- Sarah Palin or Tina Fey?
Be sure to vote and don t forget to vote on Bristol Palin s poll, too.Sarah PalinTina FeyFeatured Image: Distractify