Donald Trump has once again taken to Twitter to issue a threat to a perceived rival, except this time he is launching the threats at the wife of Ted Cruz.We have been awaiting Trump s response to a hostile ad campaign designed to appeal to the religious right, which featured Melania Trump (Donald s wife and the prospective First Lady) in a naked photoshoot.
The ad was put together by a pro-Cruz PAC.
Anti-Trump group is running Facebook ads to drive up Mormon turnout in Utah and Arizona.
https://t.co/v6ZZPKPMPp pic.twitter.com/Gps5KPbb2T McKay Coppins (@mckaycoppins) March 21, 2016It appears that Trump is now making his play back at Ted Cruz, by aiming the guns at the Texas Senator s wife Heidi.Lyin' Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a G.Q.
shoot in his ad.
Be careful, Lyin' Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2016Whether Trump has some beans to spill on Heidi, or he just huffing and puffing like some sort of fairy tale wolf the spat marks a new low in an already desperately poisonous election season for the Republican party.
Two potential candidates for the office of President of the United States trading Yo wife!
insults it is an embarrassment to the election process.It also comes hot on the heels of the worrying news that US elections have just been ranked worst among the longstanding democracies of the world.
America came flat last.
As the Washington Post puts it:What do Argentina, Costa Rica and Brazil have in common?They all outranked the United States in a comparison of election standards and procedures conducted by the Electoral Integrity Project.
The United States ranked 47th worldwide, out of 139 countries.So what is it that has driven America to the bottom of a league table of which we should be on top?
The report states: experts expressed concern about the quality of the electoral laws, voter registration, the process of drawing district boundaries, as well as the regulation of campaign finance, In short, the game is rigged to a degree in the United States, which it is not elsewhere in the developed world.
This issue should be front and center in this election campaign, with candidates doing everything they can to restore the integrity of American democracy.
Instead, the Republican candidates are busy sl*t-shaming each other s wives.The electorate deserve better, and they should vote for better.Featured image via Screengrab/Flickr Creative Commons