Don t ask Bill Maher to give Donald Trump a chance.
Because he ll tell you the truth about why he won t.During a CNN town hall event that will air on Thursday, the Real Time host bombarded a Trump supporter with reality after being asked to give Trump a chance.
The president has been in office barely three weeks, the man began.
Why can t you guys in the media and Hollywood give him some slack?
Because of what he s done!
Maher quickly replied.
But it s only been three weeks!
the man said.In those three weeks, however, Trump has done more to damage and embarrass our country than any president in modern times and Bill Maher proceeded to tell the delusional Trump supporter all about it.
It s a giant con, what he s done.
He ran for the little man.
And then what does he do?
He gets into office, the coal companies can dump sludge in the river.
Because, you know, that s what the little man is aching for.
Undoing Dodd-Frank, because so many of the town halls in Appalachia, people were standing up and saying, Mr. Trump, please get rid of the Volcker Rule, because if I can t make certain speculative investments, it s killing us here!
Indeed, Trump promised his rich friends that he would dismantle Dodd-Frank, the law that regulates Wall Street to prevent banks from doing the same things that caused the Great Recession in 2008.Trump has also been attacking the Environmental Protection Agency by making their job harder.
Trump is chipping away at Clean Water and Clean Air rules that keeps Americans safe and healthy.Trump has also already botched a military raid and is escalating confrontations with China and Iran.
And he is doing all this while insulting our allies.And that s just the tip of an iceberg that includes taking healthcare away from millions of Americans and attacking Social Security and Medicare.It may have only been three weeks, but Trump has done a lot in those three weeks to deserve all the criticism he has received.But Maher also pointed out that Trump is unfit to be president on a personal level because of his thin skin and tendency to lie every time he opens his mouth or posts on Twitter.
It s beyond politics, it s about sanity, Maher continued.
It s about somebody who makes stuff up, who doesn t read.
His information is either anecdotal, or pulled out of his behind.
Here s the video via YouTube.Any Trump supporter who seriously thinks Trump should be given a chance is only expecting blind support for a man who is clearly unqualified for the office he holds.Nothing Trump has said or done so far is worthy of respect.
He whines about the media every day and hurls personal attacks and insults at anyone who criticizes or opposes him.
Giving him a chance equates to supporting him no matter what he says or does.
He is petty and only cares about himself.
And every Trump supporter who says otherwise is lying to themselves as much as Trump lies to the public.Read more:Featured image via screenshot