A little-noticed detail in the 1993 biography Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump has just resurfaced and come back to haunt him big time.No one gave it much thought when Trump s then-wife, Ivana Trump, revealed to her friends that despite being amazing at erecting skyscrapers, the business mogul struggled in the bedroom department.
Thanks to an initiative by Politico to bring five of Trump s biographers together to discuss the Republican party s frontrunner, this little detail came back to life.
Politico reported what the different biographers have revealed, with Ivana s comments coming from Harry Hurt III: Want to know where Trump inherited his entrepreneurial bent?
Gwenda Blair traces it to his grandfather, who ran a series of restaurants in the Klondike that featured some of the best food in town, as well as private areas where sporting ladies could entertain miners.
Who was really doing the deals that made Trump famous?
Wayne Barrett will tell you the only signature that really mattered on a contract belonged to Trump s father, Fred.
What broke up Trump s first marriage?
Harry Hurt III writes that Ivana confided to female friends that Donald had difficulty achieving and maintaining an erection.
That personal detail managed to fly under the radar and actually make it into the published book because it was overshadowed by Ivana s claim that Trump attacked and raped her during their marriage.
Hurt was the first reporter to break that news, and the only reason that his publisher was able to avoid a lawsuit was because Trump was too dumb for his own good.
Hurt said: Prior to the publication of my book, he and his lawyer, Jay Goldberg, came to scream at the folks at Norton, mainly about Ivana s divorce deposition And finally Donald got so frustrated, he jumped up and he pulls a tape recorder out of his coat pocket.
He said, I ve been recording all this, and our little lawyer looked at him, and Goldberg just turned like this napkin, white.
You ve been recording this and you didn t tell us?
That s not right.
And I m going, Yeah.
They walked out and I said, He can t sue us now.
He s not going to sue us because they just shot themselves in the foot.
Now of course, making fun of someone s issues in the bedroom is no laughing matter, but the fact that it s Trump a man who forced millions of people to watch him talk about how big his d*ck was during a GOP debate is slightly humorous.
It merely validates what we ve all known Trump s brash, vulgar behavior is just a cover-up for some deep-seated insecurity.Featured image via Ralph Freso / Getty Images