Earlier today, White House Correspondent Mark Knoller was Tweeting out the info from Obama s announcement about goodies for criminals and I just couldn t believe it.
I know, I know it s really not hard to believe for some but this is such a blatant slap at the rule of law and to the law abiding American taxpayers it really is shocking: Obama plans several things via executive order that will benefit criminals.
One executive order installs a program called ban the box where government agencies can t ask about criminal history when hiring.
The second thing Obama s doing for inmates is to give them education grants and housing assistance .WTH!
Ever in search of benefits to hand leftist constituencies, Democrats have decided to give goodies to their most natural constituency of all: criminals.
According to the Associated Press, President Obama will announce executive orders Monday attempting to prevent screening for prior criminality in government hiring.
The so-called ban the box program would prevent government agencies from asking about criminal history until later in the interview process.
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Vermont Senator Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) (D-Loonbag), and former Maryland Governor Martin O Malley have all joined Obama in calling for banning the box meaning the check box for criminal conviction.
Obama also wants to prevent public housing from hindering the ability for convicted criminals to gain access to subsidies.
So, in short, we all get to hire unhireable employees with criminal backgrounds, and subsidize those who wouldn t be able to find housing because they have committed crimes.
All of this merely represents the latest in a string of attempts by Democrats to reach out to those at odds with law enforcement.
Last summer, Obama visited a federal prison, where he told prisoners that as a former user of both marijuana and cocaine, he could have ended up in prison, too.
These are young people who made mistakes that aren t that different from mistakes I made, Obama said.
The difference is they did not have the support structure, the second chances, the resources that would allow them to survive these mistakes.
Actually, the difference is that Obama didn t get caught, tried, and convicted.
And while Obama finds pandering to convicted criminals cute, those who live in the neighborhoods such drug dealers destroy might find it less endearing.
Meanwhile, just days ago, Hillary Clinton said she would sign a law that would ban racial profiling.
She did not explain how the legal standard of racial profiling would be proved, thus placing every arrest of a person of color at risk of potential legal liability.
She also said she would use executive action to destroy sentencing differentials between crack and powder cocaine, despite the fact that crack cocaine and powder cocaine use differs widely, and that black legislators originally sought the sentencing differential to rid drug-ravaged inner cities of the crack scourge.
The same day, Clinton demonstrating her own belief that crime and ethnicity are inherently tied launched African Americans for Hillary at Clark Atlanta University after lunching with vicious Jesse Jackson.
We have to create those channels of opportunity so that we go from childhood to adulthood pursuing your dreams, instead of cradle to prison and seeing them die, she intoned.
This weekend, Obama echoed that message.
I believe we can disrupt the pipeline from underfunded schools to overcrowded jails, he said in his weekly address.
I believe we can address the disparities in the application of criminal justice, from arrest rates to sentencing to incarceration.
Obama did not explain how school funding leads people to become criminals, because there is no information suggesting that it does.
Nor did he present statistics showing systemic bias against people of color in the criminal justice system as opposed to white people with the same criminal histories and same crimes.
And he certainly didn t discuss the Welfare-driven collapse of the black family, which has contributed to criminality in the black community more than any other single factor.
No, he pandered, just as he has over and over again with regard to anti-police militancy.
Obama s pattern is simple: the police are always wrong at first glance, and even if they re not wrong based on the eventually revealed fact pattern, their innocence is an outlier.
After all, Obama is fond of saying, black Americans aren t making up issues with law enforcement.
Read more: Breitbart