Donald Trump must be squirming in his tightie-whities as the investigation into his administration s collusion with Russia heats up because he just tweeted one of the absolute dumbest things he has said in quite a while that the investigation should shift to President Obama because his administration uncovered Vladimir Putin s verified plot (complete with direct instructions) to install Trump in the Oval Office.
Since the Obama Administration was told way before the 2016 Election that the Russians were meddling, why no action?
Trump tweeted on Saturday.
Focus on them, not T!
Since the Obama Administration was told way before the 2016 Election that the Russians were meddling, why no action?
Focus on them, not T!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 24, 2017Then, he insinuated that Russia was actually trying to install Hillary in office:Obama Administration official said they "choked" when it came to acting on Russian meddling of election.
They didn't want to hurt Hillary?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 24, 2017It is true that the Obama administration was completely aware of what was going on.
That s why the President expelled numerous suspected Russian spies who were aiding the operation from within our borders, considered harsh sanctions, and set up the digital equivalent of bombs that could be detonated if the US found itself in an escalating exchange with Moscow that would cripple Russia s economy.
Unfortunately, President Obama left it up to Trump to push the button and he s only just getting around to admitting that Russia not someone sitting on their bed weighing 400 pounds was behind the interference in our election.Naturally, the fine folks on Twitter came to the rescue, attempting to save Trump from somehow growing a third foot for the express purpose of shoving it in his mouth with the other two by correcting him and mocking him in an effort to cause him to feel shame for the first time in his miserable life:Donald was informed of the Russian attack during his campaign and did nothing but ride the wave into the White House.#NiceTryTrump val broeksmit (@BikiniRobotArmy) June 24, 2017You re an idiot.
Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) June 24, 2017Stop gaslighting us.
You have been calling this a hoax for six months.
Now it is something real that you blame on Obama???
Adam Best (@adamcbest) June 24, 2017On his way out, Obama made sure he was rough on Russia.
Trump is trying to undo how Obama admin penalized them.
Why is T so soft on Putin?
pic.twitter.com/8CvANdbwVF Adam Best (@adamcbest) June 24, 2017pic.twitter.com/CcCL4Wl7Dx B TY (@SHABOOTY) June 24, 2017You have dismissed this serious attack on our sovereignty until now, when you feel you can get score points against Obama.
It s outrageous.
Justin Hendrix (@justinhendrix) June 24, 2017You re too fucking stupid to exist.
BenDavid Grabinski (@bdgrabinski) June 24, 2017You said it was all FAKE NEWS invented by Democrats to excuse losing the election.
Suddenly you re admitting Russian interference.
Sad!
Charles Johnson (@Green_Footballs) June 24, 2017The Russian meddling that you said was a lying media /Clinton hoax you now say is a real, dangerous thing that was Obama s fault.
Okeydoke.
Dan Murphy (@bungdan) June 24, 2017Wait, I m confused.
Are we mad at Democrats for inventing hoax interference, or Obama for not responding forcefully to real interference?
?
Derek Johnson (@derekjGZ) June 24, 2017So it s Obama s fault for not stopping you sooner.
Okay, got it.
Makes sense.
Tom Bonier (@tbonier) June 24, 2017 Focus on them, not T!
pic.twitter.com/6bP1WVrAHe Zaki Hasan (@zakiscorner) June 24, 2017BITCH YOU ASKED RUSSIA TO HACK IN FUCKING JULY !!
https://t.co/4nFlDQBhtg ZZ TOD (@totally_tod) June 24, 2017Do not lie!
President Obama in December 2016 ordered the development of cyber weapons against Putin s hackers!
(@ElvisMikle) June 24, 2017I m more amazed everyday by how insane you are ray mckenzie (@raymack1999) June 24, 2017Again: The Russia thing can be Fake News or Obama s fault, but not both.
You ve found yourself between Barack and a hard place.
Melinda Gordon Blum (@MelindaGBlum) June 24, 2017Trump s ability to both call the Russian election meddling a hoax while simultaneously blaming Obama for it is almost impressive.It s high time Republicans grow some patriotism and impeach him already.Featured image via screengrab