Kellyanne Conway accidentally announced exactly how Donald Trump intends to reward Vladimir Putin for all the help he received from the Russian dictator s propaganda team, internet troll squad, and hackers on Monday.
Conway told Capitol Download that she doesn t feel more investigations are needed into the Kremlin s attack on our nation last year that helped barely win Trump the presidency (with a huge asterisk).
In fact, we re such good friends with Russia now that Putin helped The Donald with his little getting elected issue that Conway says Trump is going to look into lifting some of those pesky sanctions Putin couldn t get Obama to lift.
I predict that President Trump will want to make sure that our actions are proportionate to what occurred, based on what we know, Conway said, claiming that we have imposed harsher sanctions on the country that directly interfered in our election rather than North Korea and China after they hacked our nation.Conway attacked a bipartisan effort to get to the bottom of the hack, mocking Democrats not Republicans, who have spent the last eight years focusing solely on obstructing President Obama for attempting to work with the other side.
It s curious and a little bit humorous that Democrats would talk about anything bipartisan given how they have vowed to obstruct everything we do, she said, adding that there is a great deal of information out there about the hack.
I do find it to be very ironic that the uptick and the hue-and-cry of investigation and information has occurred after the election results are in, she added, completely forgetting that Hillary Clinton warned us of this exact scenario during the time leading up to the election and was mocked by Republicans when she suggested we look into it.
The fact is, the Democrats became super-duper interested in this entire issue after the election did not go the way they, quote, wanted and the way they expected.
But it s not just Democrats who think that a foreign power interfering with and manipulating our election, especially at this level, is a problem.
While most Republicans have remained silent in cowardly acceptance of the huge gift that has been given to them by Vladimir Putin and company, John McCain, Lindsey Graham, and a few others have also called for an investigation.Now, our next President whom a foreign dictator helped get into office by personally spearheading a hack of his political opponents and an aggressive propaganda campaign is poised to reward said dictator by lifting sanctions.
You know how Trump kept saying we should lock someone up?
Perhaps we should consider it but not the person he wants behind bars.Watch Conway s interview below:Featured image via screengrab