He s a Republican.
He s anti-gay.
He s all about family values.
So of course he just got busted for having a sex video of himself on his work computer.Nebraska GOP state Senator Bill Kintner is being urged to resign by Republican Governor Pete Ricketts after the Nebraska State Patrol discovered a sexually explicit video of Kintner on the government computer he uses for work.According to the Lincoln Journal Star,A source familiar with the situation said Kintner told investigators about the video when he asked the Nebraska State Patrol for help with computer problems in July 2015.The patrol confirmed Friday that Kintner had sought help for what he believed to be a potential internet scam that occurred while the senator was in Massachusetts using his state computer.
Having such a video on his work computer is a violation of Nebraska law, but it appears that Governor Ricketts and Kintner both ignored the law and hid the investigation from the public since last November when the discovery of the video was made.Only on Friday did Ricketts actually publicly call for Kintner to resign.
Due to the ongoing investigation of this issue, I have been unable to say anything publicly.
If the allegations are true, Senator Kintner needs to resign.
The violation and the cover-up has Democrats calling for more than just Kintner s resignation.
It is not enough for Sen. Kintner to resign in shame.
Anyone that knew this information and continued to let him sit in office must also resign, Nebraska Democratic Party chair Jane Kleeb said in a statement.
Did Gov.
Ricketts or his staff look the other way so they had (Kintner s) vote in the Unicameral?
This is so serious, in fact, that the State Patrol has turned out their findings to the Accountability and Disclosure Commission and and ethics investigation is underway.This is also incredibly hypocritical considering Kintner constantly brags about being a conservative Christian who has urged Christian-owned businesses to provide gay customers bad service on purpose and once told the Journal Star that his parents taught me the moral absolutes of Christianity, and I just applied those to everything.
Except himself, apparently.Featured Image: YouTube