21st Century Wire says Based on their own reports and public statements, it was clear that both Google and Facebook, and others, were engaged in formulating a wide program of censorship in order to tackle what the corporations deem as offensive speech or hate speech .
Although based on the political biases of members of these corporations, the actual administration of this will be done by fully hidden and unaccountable automated computer algorithms.
According to new reports, the new methods are not merely the manipulation of metrics used to downplay content.
These are incredibly clandestine and very sinister measures: without visibly shutting down an account, this new automated censorship process will simply make an account holder s posts invisible to their friends, fans and followers, in what Google/YouTube is calling a limited state in order to isolate and contain a targeted user even if they have NOT violated the user terms of services.
This is designed not only to disappear important opinions and information but also to frustrate users, in the hopes that they will eventually abandon the platform as a viable content distribution network.We believe that Facebook may also be implementing similar restrictions on political speech.
Mark Zuckerberg s admission to Angela Merkel that Facebook was working on eliminating hate speech was an early indicator, and undoubtedly the election of Donald Trump, and the subsequent scapegoating of fake news by Clinton supporters, has since pushed many progressive Silicon Valley executives over the edge.
However, things may have advanced considerably since then.
On August 5th, 21stCenturyWire.com Editor Patrick Henningsen had his personal Facebook newsfeed for 21WIRE articles disappeared : UPDATE: Sunday afternoon GMT, it seems that the invisible admins at Facebook has (quietly) re-opened his profile s newsfeed which seems to be visible to some of my friends now, although yesterday s posts are still HIDDEN (you can see them by scrolling down his timeline).
They did not respond to Henningsen s written complaint via customer service however no surprise there, as they never have done before.
The important aspect to focus on here is that these secretive measures are all part of a wider political agenda.
With Silicon Valley corporations clearly determined to preside over an all-encompassing social media monopoly, such restrictive politicized policies become even more dangerous.
The following story which broke yesterday details an apparent backlash from a Google employee against the company s diversity policies has gone internally viral at the company.
This was reportedly filed by VICE magazine s tech section, Motherboard: The person who wrote the document argued that the representation gap between men and women in software engineering persists because of biological differences between the two sexes, according to public tweets from Google employees.
It also said Google should not offer programs for underrepresented racial or gender minorities, according to one of the employees I spoke to.
The 10-page Google Doc document was met with derision from a large majority of employees who saw and denounced its contents, according to the employee.
But Jaana Dogan, a software engineer at Google, tweeted that some people at the company at least partially agreed with the author; one of our sources said the same.
While the document itself contains the thoughts of just one Google employee, the context in which they were shared Google is currently being investigated by the Department of Labor for its gender pay gap and Silicon Valley has been repeatedly exposed as a place that discriminates against women and people of color as well as the private and public response from its workforce are important.
See Gizmodo s review of the 10 page Google Doc.Listen to this incredible analysis by Mister Metokur exposing the highly unethical, discriminatory, collusive and ultimately illegal practices which are being implemented by Google, Facebook, Twitter and other social media cartel platforms in order to erase political speech which they seek to suppress: SUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @ 21WIRE.TV