You may have heard that Hillary Clinton had a minor medical episode on Sunday, that resulted in her leaving a 9/11 memorial ceremony in New York.
After she left, Clinton went to her daughter s apartment.
Outside of the apartment, reporters and others questioned Clinton as to what her current medical state is.
Among the crowd was Martin Shkreli, a.k.a Pharma Bro .While outside of the apartment, Shkreli shouted stupid stuff as he put it on Twitter at Hillary Clinton.
He uploaded video evidence of his douchbaggery online.
Shkreli shouted things such as Are you still alive?
and Do you need Pharma Bro s help?
As well as saying, Go Trump.
Shkreli definitely hit the nail on the head when describing his comments.Me yelling stupid stuff at Hillary: https://t.co/AhlAt24lVd Martin Shkreli (@MartinShkreli) September 11, 2016I enjoyed screaming "why are you so sick" and "go trump" at @HillaryClinton .
Get well soon bae!
Martin Shkreli (@MartinShkreli) September 11, 2016So, Martin Shkreli, former CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals, was outside for Clinton's apartment departure pic.twitter.com/jdrmDci3ln Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) September 11, 2016To understand just how truly horrible Pharma Bro s comments are, you need to set aside all of your prior ideas about Hillary Clinton.
Imagine she isn t a public figure running to take over the Oval Office.
Clinton is a 68-year-old woman who appears to have suffered from a case of heat stroke.
It turns out Clinton has pneumonia.I know that this is a man whose only real claim to fame is being almost universally hated for jacking up the price of an essential HIV medication 4,000 percent for no apparent reason other than to raise profits.
Yet, while doing that he was operating under capitalist imperatives to do so.
It isn t right, but price gauging is currently all the rage in the pharmaceutical industry.Mocking a person for having a medical issue is just plain sadistic.
What s worse is the fact that there is an audience out there who is willing to listen and encourage this type of behavior.
Judging by the comments it is mostly Trump supporters who found the scene to be absolutely hilarious.
It s sad that segments of the right-wing have decided to throw away any pretense of having basic human decency.Featured image from screenshot