Because of Donald Trump, Republicans are finally being forced to admit that their party is a racist haven that caters to whites only.During an appearance on Fox News Sunday, longtime conservative columnist George Will told host Chris Wallace that the Republican Party is now the party of white people and he specifically blamed GOP frontrunner Donald Trump for it.
Trump is in the George Wallace tradition, Will said in reference to the staunch Alabama segregationist who ran for president back in 1964 and 1968.
Will continued by saying that Wallace said that there s too much dignity in American politics, we have to have more meanness.
Will noted that unlike Wallace, Trump has support all of over the country, but pointed out problems Trump and the Republican Party face.
The problem is this.
Not only are his negatives at 61 percent almost double his positives, they are at 32 percent but he s appealing entirely to white people.
Will explained that appealing for white votes is not enough for any national candidate to win elections anymore unless they receive a ridiculous percentage of the vote and that candidates must receive a sizable percentage of votes from other ethnic groups as well if they want to achieve victory in 21st century America.
Mitt Romney got 17 percent that s all of the non-white vote.
Trump, by every measure, would do worse than that.
Which means he would not have to get just the 65 percent of the white vote to win that Ronald Reagan got, sweeping 49 states.
He would have to get 70 percent of the white vote.
A, it won t happen and B, it would destroy the Republican Party by making it the party of white people.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, Trump s incendiary remarks about Hispanics and Muslims and the way his supporters have treated black protesters during rallies makes it highly unlikely he will capture many votes if any at all from those voting groups.When President Obama won a second term in 2012, he did so with 75 percent of the Hispanic vote and only less than half of eligible Hispanic voters actually showed up to vote.
Trump s hateful comments toward the Hispanic community make it more likely that that both percentages will rise in 2016 to the benefit of the Democratic candidate.And not only did African-Americans have a higher turnout rate than white voters in 2012, 93 percent of them voted for President Obama.The outright racism of the GOP in this election cycle could very well be enough to drive pissed off Hispanics and African-Americans to the voting booth in droves.
And that could spell doom for the GOP.
Featured image via Free Wood Post