21st Century Wire says If you haven t seen Hillary Clinton s bizarre and shrill performance the other night, it should be required viewing for anyone following the current 2016 Presidential Election.Clearly, something was very wrong with the Democratic Party candidate during this segment, as she shouted flippantly, made some very strange statements almost as if she was parodying herself in a Saturday Night Live skit By Anthony Brian LoganOn Wednesday, September 21st, 2016, Hillary Clinton gave a speech / address to the Laborers International Union of North America in which she went completely off the rails.
Her pitch was to support labor unions and be anti-right-to-work, something that Donald Trump has praised and supported.
During the midst of her speech, something went left.
Not with the environment of the place she was delivering the speech.
Not with the camera equipment.
But with Hillary herself.
The BIOS mainframe seemed to have obtained a virus.When she begins to talk about why she isn t 50 points ahead of Trump, Hillary begins to shout and point with a scowl on her face.
Maybe the numbers have her upset to the point where she can t contain it anymore?
It s hard to tell.
But whatever the case is, her behavior does not appear to be presidential.And that brings up the question she raised during her tirade.
Why aren t I 50 points ahead of Trump?
Well, the answer to the question is simple.
The reason for that is because of her behavior, as exhibited in the aforementioned video to the labor union.
Also, countless other videos.
Such as the video of her collapsing to the point where one of her shoes flew off and landed under a vehicle during the 9/11 ceremony in New York City.
The video of her having what appears to be Parkinson s related episode in a coffee shop where her head moves back and forth in an awkward, somewhat violent way.
The constant coughing fits.
The Parkinson s fit after the coronation speech at the 2016 DNC.
Last but not least, the constant corruption.
Emails, Benghazi, Clinton Cash, the list goes on and on.So maybe the answer to the question she raised and the question many people have about Hillary s behavior is much more easy to explain.
A fear of losing and a general problem with Hillary herself, whether that be medical or just her personality in general.
All Hillary, and Hillary supporters can do at this point is hope these problems don t reveal themselves during the debate on Monday September 26th or her chances at becoming the President will be over.
Which, in reality, is good for America anyway https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZtLznfIDEzI .
READ MORE ELECTION NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire 2016 Files