The lack of respect for the office of the President of the United States from Republicans is utterly appalling.
No matter who the president is, or how much you disagree with their policy proposals or how they conduct business, you respect the office.
You don t have the respect the person, but you respect the role they play as the leader of the nation.
However, Republicans seem to have forgotten this unwritten rule, especially under the presidency of Barack Obama.
Their utter disrespect borders on utter impudence.For the last seven years we ve even had members of the right-wing say that President Obama wasn t born in the United States.
It s as if they don t consider him valid as a president, so they don t need to offer him the respect and dignity the office of the presidency so rightly deserves.Yet another example of this insolence can be found in a recent tweet by the Republican governor of Texas, Greg Abbott.Abbott, upset that President Obama wants to curb the epidemic of gun violence after mass shootings have become all too common in occurrence, decided that he would directly threaten the president.What did the president say that got Abbott s Underoos in a bunch?
A few months ago, I directed my team at the White House to look into any new actions I can take to help reduce gun violence.
And on Monday, I ll meet with our attorney general, Loretta Lynch, to discuss our options Because I get too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids to sit around and do nothing.
I get letters from responsible gun owners who grieve with us every time these tragedies happen; who share my belief that the Second Amendment guarantees a right to bear arms; and who share my belief we can protect that right while keeping an irresponsible, dangerous few from inflicting harm on a massive scale.
You know, because God forbid we, as a nation, care enough to curb the epidemic of gun violence.However, Abbott takes it personally, and pandering to his base of voters and the right-wing lunatics who feel they should be able to own their personal arsenal to cater to their paranoia, he tweets this at President Obama:Obama wants to impose more gun control.
My response.#?
COME & TAKE IT @NRA #tcot #PJNET https://t.co/RUPbcev5jY pic.twitter.com/8VNwisj966 Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) January 1, 2016And, of course, this tween is also directed at the NRA, because Abbott feels the need to whine like the immature child that he presents himself to be, and needs them to help him fight his selfish battles.What Abbott, and all the other right-wing loons need to realize is, when you say, COME AND TAKE IT to the president of the United States with a picture of a gun or cannon, as the case may be, you are threatening the President of the United States.
Come and take it implies you are willing to kill to have your way.
You take your argument of clear dissent to that of a direct threat of violence against the president for wanting to impose policy you disagree with.Abbott also needs to realize that Texas is only a state, not its own nation, and they are to abide by the laws of the United States, and any action taken by President Obama.
Otherwise, they are in clear violation of the U.S. Constitution.These words from Abbott need to be called what they are a threat, and Abbott needs to held accountable.
As the governor of one of the largest states in the U.S. he should have a little more maturity than this, act like an adult, and apologize.
You don t have to agree with the president, but you need to respect the office.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr)