Ever since the end of the ridiculous exercise in futility and extremism that was the armed occupation of a federal bird sanctuary in Oregon, conservatives have been screaming from the rooftops that the evil federal government is persecuting patriots.
Sure, the militants repeatedly declared war on the federal government.
Sure, they were establishing a colony of armed and dangerous insurgents, many of whom couldn t legally own guns in the first place.
Sure, they were surrounding themselves with children they intended to use as human shields.
Sure, they resisted demands from locals that they leave and spent most of their time begging for free stuff and disturbing historical artifacts.This anti-government effort cost one person a violent and dangerous individual whose foster children (or, as he called them, his primary source of sweet, sweet dollar signs) were taken from him after he abandoned them to join the Revolution his life.
Dozens of the terrorists are now facing upwards of a decade in prison, including the original Welfare Cowboy, Cliven Bundy, who attempted to join the occupation after most insurgents had turned tail and fled.A message from darmour88 to the Harney county, oregon (burns) intel channel of messaging app Zello reveals that conservatives have more in mind than simply hanging out with a bunch of ducks they want to lynch the President:Like, I woke up this morning I woke up and went down to the coffee shop and sat around with a bunch of old ranchers and a bunch of people from the area this morning and had some discussions with them and all I can say is they re all ready to march into that White House and take that son of a bitch and lynch him publicly.
And that s a matter of fact.The message seems to be from a man by the name of Dustin Armour, who uses the same username and photo on Facebook as the Zello account from which the message originated.
Armour loves his Confederate flag, hate blacks, and proudly supports domestic terrorist LaVoy Finicum, who was shot by federal agents after he attempted to pull a gun on them.
According to his OKCupid profile, Armour has no problem with someone who has vocalized a strong negative bias toward a certain race of people, he has no problem with racist jokes, and he is an all around redneck who loves a good horror movie and some snacks the latter bit, of course, being something that would make him quite popular with the Oregon terrorists, who also love snacks.
Posts to right-wing extremist groups reveal that Armour also believes the government controls the weather:Conservatives are crazy especially the ones who are stupid enough to support armed terrorists.
But to suggest that the President should be lynched is an unfortunate position for them to take, no matter what their political leanings.Listen to the clip below:Featured image via screengrab