President Zero F*cks Left Obama strikes again.After a reporter informed President Obama that Republicans are blaming him for Donald Trump taking over the GOP Primary, he literally had a good laugh and proceeded to lay out exactly how Republicans brought the Trump circus upon themselves.
I have been blamed by Republicans for a lot of things but being blamed for their primaries and who they re selecting for their party is novel, Obama said as he and others chuckled.President Obama then stopped joking and took aim at Republicans for not taking responsibility for the mess they created.He pointed out that right-wing media and Republican leadership have been feeding the Republican base, for the last seven years, a notion that everything I do is to be opposed, that cooperation and compromise are a betrayal I don t think that I was the one to prompt questions about my birth certificate, for example, Obama continued.
I don t remember saying, Hey, why don t you ask me about that, or why don t you question whether I m American or whether I m loyal, or whether I have America s best interests at heart.
Those weren t prompted by any actions of mine.
What you re seeing within the Republican Party, is to some degree, all of those efforts over a course of time creating an environment where somebody like a Donald Trump can thrive.
He s just doing more of what has been done over the last seven and a half years.
Then President Obama pointed out that Trump s policies are no different than policies being pushed by Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, the other two extremists in the GOP presidential field.
It s not as if there s a massive difference between Mr. Trump s position on immigration and Mr. Cruz s position on immigration.
Mr. Trump might just be more provocative in terms of how he says it, but the actual positions are not that different.
For that matter, they re not that different from Mr. Rubio s positions on immigration, despite the fact that both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio, their own families are the result of immigration and the openness of our society.
In the end, President Obama dropped the hammer on Republicans who are trying to wash their hands of any responsibility for what is happening to their own party by blaming him instead of themselves.
What I m not going to do is to validate some notion that the Republican crackup that s been taking place is a consequence of actions that I ve taken There are thoughtful conservatives who are troubled by this I think it is very important for them to reflect on what it is about the politics they have engaged in that allows the circus that we ve been seeing to transpire.
Here s the video via YouTube.President Obama made the remarks during a joint press conference with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday.Featured image via video screen capture