A few days after Christmas in 1992, Felicia Houston, 16, and two of her cousins were walking in an apartment complex when she was murdered by a former leader of the Ku Klux Klan in Monroe, North Carolina.
Now, her murderer wants to be released from prison because he found Jesus.Russell Hinson was angry that a black drug dealer stole $70 from him on that fateful day.
He told a friend that he was going to get revenge, I m going to shoot a n****r through the heart.
So, he and a friend, Guy Brown, drove around the apartment complex where the drug dealer was living, when he came upon the group of girls.
The Charlotte Observer explained what happened next:Hinson and Brown heard their laughter.
Then they saw them.
Hinson reloaded and stuck the crossbow out the window.
Don t shoot, Brown said.
They re only girls.I don t care, Hinson said, One of them is going to pay.He fired.Felicia fell to her knees, her cousin testified, hollering, I m shot, I m hurt!
I m shot, I m hurt!
Felicia died sixteen hours after she was shot and Hinson was arrested shortly after.
The white supremacist went on trial for first-degree murder and it took an all-white jury just two and a half hours to convict him.
Now, twenty-three years after shooting a child with a crossbow, he wants to be released from prison early.Dennis Long, Hinson s uncle, claims that prison changed him.
He told the Observer his nephew found the Lord about six years ago and has expressed remorse about killing Felicia.
The North Carolina Parole Commission will be reviewing his case soon and deciding whether or not he deserves release.It s always humourous to me that murderers like Hinson murder someone, go into prison and then claim to have accepted Jesus into their lives.
As if picking up a Bible suddenly absolves them of the horrific crimes they committed.
What s even more ironic is that this guy, a former leader of an organization that believes in white superiority, would probably spit on Jesus if he appeared before him.
After all, Jesus was a Middle Eastern Jew.Hopefully, the parole board denies his request and sends him back to his cell where he belongs.Featured image via Charlotte Observer