Jill Stein, Green Party candidate for President of the United States, has made her case this election by painting herself as being the anti-Hillary Clinton.
She claims that Clinton s ties to Wall Street and her more cozy feelings towards big corporations and polluters make her a faux-progressive.
So Stein claims that she is the true outsider progressive who has the people s best interest at heart and that she will end the too-big-to-fail mentality on Wall Street.But her investment portfolio shows something completely different.Uncovered by the Daily Beast, Stein has millions of dollars worth of investments in the very entities she rails against in her faltering presidential campaign:According to the financial-disclosure form she filed with the U.S. Office of Government Ethics on March 30, 2016, Stein and her husband, Richard Rohrer, have investments (with the exception of real estate) valued at anywhere from $3,832,050 to $8,505,000.
(Stein told The Daily Beast she inherited over a half-million dollars from her parents.)
We don t know their exact net worth because filers are only required to provide a range of the value of their investments as opposed to exact values.Those investments, which but Stein s net worth in the millions (what an outsider), are held in mutual funds or index funds which provide more consistent, safer returns than individually picked stocks.Stein is invested in:Stein also has $50,001-$100,000 invested in a fund that represents Raytheon, which is the fourth largest defense contractor in the world and relies heavily on military contracts.So all of these entities, in which opposition to has been the cornerstone of Stein s campaign, are also her biggest benefactors financially.For years Jill Stein has made it her mission to paint Hillary Clinton and other Democrats as backstabbing, two-faced, corrupt shills while glorifying herself as a goddess in the progressive movement.
Meanwhile, she s been padding her net worth thanks to big oil, big pharma, Wall Street and defense contractors.Of course the Stein campaign refused to take any shred of responsibility, telling the Daily Beast:Like many Americans who hold retirement accounts, pension funds, or who invest in the American economy, my finances are largely held in index funds or mutual funds over which I have no control in management or decision-making.
Sadly, most of these broad investments are as compromised as the American economy degraded as it is by the fossil-fuel, defense and finance industries.She also left out the part where she could, if she really was the principled candidate she says she is, forgo these investments and invest the money somewhere else:While it s true that Stein would not have control over the investments of the funds she invested in, she did have a choice of whether to invest in these funds to begin with.
In the past, political candidates, in an effort to avoid a conflict of interest or have their judgment called into question, have invested their entire portfolios in U.S. Treasuries, cash/cash equivalents, in socially responsible index funds, or clean-energy funds.
In her statement, Stein said that she has explored more socially responsible funds but found their investments in fracking and large-scale biofuels not much better than the non-green funds.
I have not yet found the mutual funds that represent my goals of advancing the cause of people, planet, and peace.
But apparently big pharma, oil and Wall Street investments do?Ladies and gentlemen, Jill Stein: America s hypocrite of the year.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images