There are quite the number of mixed reviews coming in this morning of Larry Wilmore s monologue at the White House Correspondents Dinner.
Wilmore, who runs The Nightly Show on Comedy Central, took some pretty serious stabs at the mainstream media, particularly CNN.At one point, Wilmore asked where Wolf Blitzer was by saying, Speaking of girls, where s Wolf Blitzer.
The camera showed a profile of an unamused Blitzer as Wilmore went on to trash him and The Situation Room, as the crowd went silent except for a few jeers and oooohs :Wolf Blitzer looks less than amused with Larry Wilmore s jokes screen capture+Wilmore seemed to be, for the most part, bombing here.
The crowd, which arguably is full of the people Wilmore has decided to insult, isn t being kind to the anti-media position.
That didn t stop Wilmore from trudging on, coming to Don Lemon and delivering an epic roast that earned him more than just a few laughs, It earned Don Lemon s middle finger:Don Lemon couldn t show a little restraint, opting to show the bird to Larry Wilmore instead screen captureTo be fair, Larry Wilmore laid a smackdown on Lemon that probably warranted a little comeback, but seriously, Don?
At the WHCD?
The president and the first lady are in that room get a grip.Here s the exchange between Wilmore and Lemon that had fingers flying:The line, in case you missed it, was, America s finest black journalists are here tonight.
Don Lemon s here too.
Lemon reacted, poorly, and he ll catch a lot of grief for it.
Wilmore, on the other hand, has taken a few hits for what people called a horrible performance and also been heavily praised by people who think we SHOULD question the status quo.
CNN Doesn t get a pass just because they aren t Fox News anymore.
When President Obama delivered his monologue, he made notes of some journalists who had made moves away from the White House Press Corps and then he zinged Jake Tapper for leaving journalism to join CNN.
It was a rough night for the media, that s for sure.Featured image by Getty Images Pool/ Screen capture