Donald Trump is desperate to find singers to perform at his inauguration ceremony, so rapper Ice-T decided to have a little fun messing with Trump s supporters.For weeks, Trump s team has been reduced to looking under rocks to find someone to sing a song during his inauguration on January 20th.
So far, no real stars have signed on because no one wants to hurt their career by associating themselves with a narcissistic asshole who will probably be the last president.Trump has even reportedly gone so far as to offer ambassadorships to talent managers if they can get some major performers to agree to appear.Well, Trump s desperation gave Ice-T, who also portrays Detective Tutuola on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, the opportunity to make Trump supporters lose their sh*t. And he made the most of it by telling his fans on Twitter that Trump called him to get him to perform but he ignored the call and blocked the number.I just got call to perform at the Inauguration .
I didn t pick up and Blocked the number.
ICE T (@FINALLEVEL) December 16, 2016Ice-T then followed up with a suggestion.Just call Ted Nugent and call it a day .
ICE T (@FINALLEVEL) December 16, 2016Of course, Trump supporters threw a hissy fit, calling Ice-T a liar and telling him that they don t like him anyway.But the joke was on them as Ice-T made the whole thing up and mocked Trump supporters for taking his joke so seriously.Jokes people I got Jokes!
ICE T (@FINALLEVEL) December 16, 2016Lol It s so easy to fire these political Trolls up Lol ICE T (@FINALLEVEL) December 16, 2016Truthfully..
Anyone that thinks those MFs would call me?!
ME of all people??
Has gotta be a DumbFuck.
ICE T (@FINALLEVEL) December 16, 2016Ice-T even punked Trump supporters a second time with yet another joke.Trump wouldn t accept my refusal to play the Inauguration so he s coming over my house tonight to talk about it I won t be home.
ICE T (@FINALLEVEL) December 16, 2016And once again, Trump supporters threw a tantrum.
@FINALLEVEL we get it bro.
You don t like trump.
Move on.
Don t be a sore loser.
C. Matt Reynolds (@laineysdaddy) December 16, 2016@FINALLEVEL Nobody wants you to play anything Ice T = old ass has been.
AmericanValuesMatter (@sp1ritharambe) December 16, 2016Seriously, the stupid is strong in Trump supporters.
Ice-T proved that by winning the Internet with a single tweet.
And Trump supporters proved their own stupidity by falling for Ice-T s joke a second time.Well played, Ice-T. Well played.Featured image via Twitter