In a display of Olympic-level mental gymnastics, a South Carolina Sheriff said, and actually meant, that the NAACP is pretty much just like the KKK.
His reasoning?
They promote and support African Americans.During the talk, Wright addressed several topics.
The sheriff, who is known for being outspoken, said, among other things, I think the most racist people in America right now sometimes are minorities, small group minorities.
I ve got a chaplain who works for me.
He s an African-American, he is my brother and I love him more than anything..
He doesn t buy into that mess.
A bunch of his friends don t either.
They don t do the NAACP because I feel like that is a racist group as well as the KKK.
I don t care about them either.
I don t want to be a part of no group that s got something to do just because of your color.
I don t think they re right.In case you missed it, yes, he played the I have a black friend card.There s an argument to be made that black people can t be racists because they re not in positions of power to systematically oppress white people.
But semantics aside, Sheriff Redneck is right that SOME black people don t like white people.
In fact, they re downright bigoted!
I suppose that if I were black and white people constantly treated me like a criminal or mentally inferior, I might start to resent the hell out of white people.
Maybe I d even learn to hate them.
This doesn t excuse bigotry but it puts it into perspective.On the other hand, the KKK hates black people just for being black.
It s a not subtle difference.
Bigoted black people are, by and large, responding to how they re treated.
The KKK thinks blacks are innately inferior, if not, in fact, sub-human.But even putting aside of all that, the NAACP exists to help the black community stand on equal footing with white people.
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
It s right there in the name.
Black people have been systemically kept from getting the same educational and economic opportunities as white people.
The law treats them differently on every level and always for the worse.
Our popular media has spent decades (centuries?)
depicting black people as lazy, criminally inclined and stupid.
So, yes, Sheriff Good Ol Boy, the NAACP has got to do with skin color because America keeps treating that skin color poorly.Meanwhile, the KKK exists to maintain white supremacy, using violence and terrorism to keep the black community from freeing itself from the legacy of American slavery.
But, you know, that s just like what the NAACP does because Sheriff Inbred s black friend told him so.And just to top it all off?
Sheriff Boss Hog feels persecuted (because of course he does): This is a political bashing, that s all it is, to try to stir up controversy to draw some attention, Wright said.Yes, why would anyone want to draw attention to the fact that the sheriff thinks black people are just as racist as the KKK?
I just can t figure it out Featured image via The Houston Chronicle