Donald Trump is a racist.
That is a fact that cannot be disputed.
He has the support of white supremacists and other professional bigots, and yet the GOP elite continue to line up behind him, all while swearing they aren t racists.
Well MSNBC political commentator Michael Eric Dyson has had enough.During a conversation with Republican strategist Alex Castellanos, Dyson unloaded and pointed out that Trump is promoting white nationalism during a conversation regarding the United Kingdom s Brexit vote.
It is, in fact the same sort of dangerous xenophobia, racism, and nationalism that caused people in Britain to vote pro-Brexit.
As we are now seeing, it is not a good thing in the United Kingdom, and that same sort of nationalism that drives Trump s political success is not a good thing here in America either.
Here is a transcript of the exchange, via Media Matters:ALEX CASTELLANOS: The Brexit vote is a vote for the idea of nationhood.MICHAEL ERIC DYSON: It s nationalism.CASTELLANOS: Right, in Europe you ve destroyed borders.
You can travel anywhere.
Immigration has destroyed borders.
There are no economic borders now.
Greece can spend money that Germany has to pay back.
The British looked at this and said, we think being a nation is a good idea and that we ought to be one.DYSON: But nationalism is not the answerCASTELLANOS: Of course it is.DYSON: I m saying nationalism within AmericaCASTELLANOS: There were nations before the EU.
There will be nations afterwards.
This is not a crisis.
And when Donald Trump talks about building a wall DYSON: For who?CASTELLANOS: what people are hearing is we ought to have a real nation for all of us.DYSON: Donald Trump s nation doesn t represent all of us.
When he keeps saying he wants to ban Muslims.
He wants to keep immigrants out.
He wants to build a wall.
And look, at his rallies, when black people are pushed around, he then says, I will pay for the legal fees.
Donald Trump amplifies the worst instincts.
And his nationalism is really a white racist supremacist nationalism that reeks terror on the American democratic experiment.Dyson is right.
Trump s divisive, violent, racist rhetoric only serves to prey on people s fears, ignorance, and prejudices.
It divides rather than unites.
Diversity is a beautiful thing, but if Donald Trump has his way, there will be no such thing.Watch the exchange below, again via Media Matters:Featured image via video screen capture