The GOP and the Donald Trump for president campaign are reeling after the world watched and listened in horror to Trump describing pursuits of married women and straight up sexual assault in some of the most vulgar terms imaginable with then- Access Hollywood producer Billy Bush.
Even Trump s own wife and running mate couldn t defend what he s done, and his establishment support is being pulled in droves.
However, despite the tailspin Trump s campaign and indeed the entire Republican Party is in, according to a former producer of The Apprentice, this is just the tip of the iceberg, and nowhere near the worst there is to see of Donald Trump.Bill Pruitt, who says he produced the show that made Trump a national figure of business prowess, tweeted the following on Saturday:As a producer on seasons 1 & 2 of #theapprentice I assure you: when it comes to the #trumptapes there are far worse.
#justthebegininng Bill Pruitt (@billpruitt) October 8, 2016There seems to be credibility here as well, since Ed Henry of Fox News has suggested that Donald Trump s pal and former GOP primary rival Dr. Ben Carson has also said this is just the beginning.
Henry tweeted:.
@RealBenCarson told me he & @realDonaldTrump talked about more revelations coming: "They have have more things & they will drip them out" Ed Henry (@edhenry) October 8, 2016No one should be surprised by this.
Trump is a sexual predator, and due to his money, power, and fame, he has gotten away with being one for his entire adult life.
There s surely plenty of other hot mic tapes, Apprentice outtakes, and god knows what else out there that the world will be privy to in short order, and certainly prior to November 8th.For this reason, there will continue to be a drumbeat of calls from GOP heavy-hitters for Trump to drop out of the race, but Trump s ego will not allow him to do that.
Further, he has said that he won t, via his favorite medium of communication and feuding: Twitter.The media and establishment want me out of the race so badly I WILL NEVER DROP OUT OF THE RACE, WILL NEVER LET MY SUPPORTERS DOWN!
#MAGA Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 8, 2016Of course, his rabid, brainwashed supporters see nothing wrong with Trump s lewd, predatory tapes, and will continue to blame the media, the GOP establishment, Hillary Clinton, and everyone else but Trump himself for what is going on right now.
Either way, the GOP is stuck with Trump through the election, and they will be left with nothing but ashes for their split and broken party afterward.Congratulations, GOP.
You did this by propping this imbecile up and trying to put him in the White House, even though you know that it s the last place he should be.
You re getting exactly what you deserve.
Good luck having a party at all after this.As for the rest of us we ll be popping our popcorn and watching.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images