Fox News, purveyor of lies branded as news, has finally decided to drop the act and tell the world who they really are.
In a fairly surprising move, they re dropping their fair and balanced slogan.
The slogan was Roger Ailes from the time the network was launched, but it s come under increasing fire for sexual harassment and assault allegations.
The slogan is too closely tied to the worst harasser there was there Ailes himself so the network s management decided to drop it.And just when you thought they might actually be doing something right, they twisted reality again to fit their own warped view of themselves.
The new slogan will be, Most Watched.
Most Trusted.
Sure most trusted by people who don t know what facts are.
When Roger Ailes came up with fair and balanced, it was because he felt doing right-wing news branded as such was a recipe for failure.
That slogan had become the nearly-religious mantra behind their ongoing push of conservative ideology, no matter how outrageous (or, dare we say it, false) the stories were.Fox News has always seemed to be anti-fact because of that, and despite their fair and balanced slogan.
But most trusted?
In 2014, they weren t, at least, not among adults who had heard of them or in comparison to other networks, including CNN.
However, earlier this year, Rasmussen found that more Fox News viewers trust Fox News than CNN viewers trust CNN.Maybe that s what they mean by most trusted.
Of course, conservatives are allergic to factual reporting and so of course more of them would see Fox News as trustworthy.As for the most watched part?
Their ratings have been slipping ever since it came out that there s a serious problem with sexual harassment there.
At the end of May, Fox News had fallen to third place behind CNN and MSBNC for prime-time viewership.
That was the first time in 17 years that had happened.So Most Trusted?
Sure, if you re a right-wing nutjob who s allergic to facts, truth and history.
Most Watched?
That s a far more difficult claim to make.
Maybe they believe they ll regain their top spot, and there s nothing wrong with believing that.
But changing their slogan is probably only a tiny step towards convincing any sane person that they re capable of sticking to truth and facts, particularly with people like Tucker Carlson and Sean Hannity still on the air.Featured image via Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images