Michigan s Republican governor, Rick Snyder hasn t quite satisfied his penchant for evil doing.
Snyder, who is globally infamous for overseeing the poisoning of the city of Flint, Michigan, is now trying to re-steal more than half a billion dollars from Michigan s teachers.In 2010, a law was passed that forced school employees to contribute 3 percent of their pay to their healthcare retirement benefits.
The law was ruled as unconstitutional by the Court of Appeals on June 7.
That means that the already collected $550 million dollars that are currently held in escrow must be returned to the school employees that it was originally stolen from.
Governor Snyder s decision to drag this case out, even though the Attorney General will not assist in the appeal, is a shameful use of the people s time and money.
School employees deserve to have their hard-earned money returned to them as soon as possible, but instead they will have to wait as Governor Snyder spends more time defending what is clearly an unconstitutional law, said David Hecker, president of American Federation of Teachers Michigan.That ruling doesn t fit into Snyder s master plan.
He is now suing to appeal the court s decision.
The suit is so frivolous and politically toxic that even the governor s Republican comrade, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schutte isn t willing to touch it with a ten-foot pole.
Schuette has announced that he will not represent the Snyder administration.
After reviewing the appellate decision in American Federation of Teachers V. State of Michigan the Attorney General is declining to provide counsel if the Governor wishes to appeal the ruling, said Schuette spokeswoman Andrea Bitely.Bitley also said that In this case, we ve not only reviewed the ruling, but we ve also spoken with many teachers and heard from many teachers across Michigan, and it just didn t make sense to continue the appeals process through our office at this point.
Snyder insists that he is trying to protect the stability of the system, according to a statement from Snyder s press secretary, Anna Heaton.The Snyder administration has proven once again how badly government functions when it is controlled by Republicans.
Snyder s political career is virtually over.
That means he is free to fight for the causes he truly believes in without worrying about his name becoming more tarnished than it already is.
Apparently, those causes include stealing from teachers and school employees paychecks.Featured image from Mark Wilson/Getty Images