Rex Huppke, of the Chicago Tribune, is not exactly known for his formality or reverence toward pretty much anything.
He also voices a lot of support for Hillary Clinton in his columns.
There are probably a lot of readers who take him to task for that, but one apparently stood out to him, and he just had to highlight it on Twitter.This person asked, Rex, are you being paid by the Clinton Crime Family Foundation?
Here s Huppke s answer:Reader email: Rex, are you being paid by the Clinton Crime Family Foundation?
My response: pic.twitter.com/32XXb2TgRe Rex Huppke (@RexHuppke) September 15, 2016Well, that s pretty much all of the right s major conspiracy theories and fear-filled talking points right there.
He did forget the one where Hillary and Obama are coming to take everyone s guns, but that can be overlooked.
The Hail Hydra!
finishes this answer off with a nice, neat little bow.There s nothing the Hillary-haters love more than a good conspiracy theory.
Can t find solid evidence that she s a criminal?
It s because she and her husband have paid everyone off.
She s coughing and has pneumonia?
She s covering up a brain tumor, brain damage and Parkinson s, if she s not outright dead and has a body double doing her appearances for her.
People disappear out of the public eye?
Obviously, Hillary had them murdered.She s close to her assistant, Huma Abedin, so they must be secret lesbian lovers.
And of course, the conspiracy-mongers are still Benghazhingly Benghaziing their Benghazist Benghazis, which spawned the entire email scandal, which is another conspiracy theory of its own.A lot of this is being fueled by Donald Trump himself, because he actually encourages this type of thinking among his loyal subjects.
He loves conspiracy theories too he s the one who put the birther movement into the spotlight.
He also claimed that Ted Cruz s father may have helped assassinate John F. Kennedy.
One of his favorite phrases seems to be, Something s going on, and he declares loudly that we must find out what it is, which adds fuel to the fire.While it s not clear whether Huppke responded to a Trumpkin or a left-wing Hillary-hater, the truth is that the line between the two is increasingly blurred.
Huppke replied to that conspiracy-filled question in the only way that works.Featured image via Twitter