The Republican effort to impeach former President Bill Clinton is coming back to haunt them.Back in 1998, Republicans passed articles of impeachment against Clinton for lying under oath about an extramarital affair with Monica Lewinsky.
Seriously, they really sought to impeach a sitting president for this.Fast-forward to 2017 and America has been suffering through the Donald Trump circus for six months.
He has lied to the American people just about every time he speaks.
He launches vicious attacks on the media and individuals.
He is actively trying to kill an investigation into his ties with Russia that could reveal collusion during the 2016 Election, committing obstruction of justice along the way.
He has violated the Constitution more time than we can count.Yet Republicans in this Congress have absolutely no problem with Trump abusing his power and acting like a petulant child.If Bill Clinton or Barack Obama had done these things, Republicans would have impeached both of them without thinking twice.
And they would have successfully ousted them.Former Republican congressman Bob Inglis voted to impeach Clinton nearly 20 years ago, and now he admits that what Trump is doing is far worse than what Republicans tried to impeach Clinton for.During a 1998 interview, Inglis explained his vote by saying that president s need to have moral authority to lead.
There are issues around the world that require American leadership, he said.
The leader of the free world needs moral authority.
And we ve got a president who is sorely lacking in that regard.
CNN International host Christiane Amanpour reminded Inglis of his words on Monday and he was quick to apply them to the present day.
Well, I guess that young guy you were just playing there apparently hadn t seen something called the Donald Trump show because this is much more serious than anything we ever accused Bill Clinton of, Inglis declared.
I mean, Bill Clinton was a problem involving perjury with the underlying matter being a sexual affair.
This is something quite different, particularly when it gets into the Russia investigation and the firing of James Comey.
These are very serious matters.
Inglis also has a problem with Trump s involvement with Russia, his withdrawal of United States participation in the Paris Climate accords, and Trump sidelining America in the area of global leadership.Here s the video via Twitter.He voted to impeach Clinton.
@bobinglis now says he apparently hadn t seen something called the Donald Trump Show.
https://t.co/8zWMrwHQ1o Christiane Amanpour (@camanpour) July 3, 2017Donald Trump should be impeached.
His behavior has embarrassed the United States around the world and he has demonstrated clearly that he is unfit to hold office.
If a simple extramarital affair and one lie is enough for Republicans to impeach a president, Trump should have been ousted on the first day.
Republicans need to stop being hypocrites and do the right thing.Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images