Republicans apparently have no idea what they believe anymore.
The only constant in the GOP universe these days is believing whatever it is Trump wants them to believe.That s the only explanation I can think of for the results of the following polls.
This one, from Politico, shows overwhelming numbers of Republican supporting direct federal negotiation with individual businesses, tax breaks or incentives offered to specific individual businesses ( crony capitalism ), and advantages on government contractors for specific businesses:The best part?
Even the GOP platform doesn t agree!
Here s more, directly from the 2016 platform:Cronyism is inherent in the progressive vision of the administrative state.
When government uses taxpayer funding and resources to give special advantages to private companies, it distorts the free market and erodes public trust in our political system.
By enlarging the scope of government and placing enormous power in the hands of bureaucrats, it multiplies opportunities for corruption and favoritism.
It is the enemy of reform in education, the workplace, and healthcare.
It gives us financial regulation that protects the large at the cost of the small.
It is inherent in every part of the current healthcare law, which is packed with corporate welfare.
Crony capitalism gives us special interest tax breaks, custom-designed regulations, and special exemptions for favored parties.
The Solyndra debacle is a perfect example.
It creates both subsidies and restrictions to tilt the market one way or the other.
By putting the weight of government behind the status quo, it leads to economic stagnation.Now, I feel it is important to note that I don t agree with Republican economic theories at all.
There is no such thing as a truly free market when markets are an abstract concept defined by and regulated by a central authority no matter how much libertarian-minded conservatives may wish otherwise.
Yet it can t be denied that Trump and pence and GOP views right now overall do not see remotely eye to eye with the stance outlined in the platform.Strong regulatory rules that are the same for everyone (progressive economics) are a far cry from whoever the president wants to win, wins.
What Republicans are currently claiming to be in support of isn t a free market.
It s fascism, and it s as big as big government gets.
Even Sarah fucking Palin understands that!It gets better.
Another poll, from the Economist/YouGov, shows that Republicans are completely open with their newfound lack of free market economics:As you can see, traditional politics has been turned on its head this poll shows MUCH higher support for free market economics among Democrats and independents than Republicans.Now, interpretation.
I don t think anything has actually changed at all for the average Republican voter.
They believe the same things day to day they always did.
They re just not that smart, and they have way too much respect for authoritative leaders they re authoritarian followers who think a strong leader like Trump always knows what is best.
So this is less of a case of switched beliefs, and more a case of whatever dad says goes.
Some conservative leaders have tried to fight back against Trump s professed love of fascist economics, but the reasonable voices in the GOP (by their standard) should have learned that they were drowned out long ago.
This is Trump s party now.
And soon, it s Trump s America.The right wing has lost all sense of leadership and guidance and is now abandoning its own core principles in a desperate bid to retain power.
And I don t mean over one election they know the future of their party is in danger.
Hillary s 2.6 million popular vote victory, the simmering anger of a large number of Americans, and the upcoming census elections are ensuring that the few smart Republicans left see the writing on the wall: unless they pull off some massive populist victories during the next few years, they re doomed.With Trump at the helm and support for fascism on the rise, things are not looking good.Featured image partial shot of embedded Politico poll