Our former U.N. ambassador, John Bolton, is a ridiculous conspiracy theorist.
He s so ridiculous that Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) will work to block his appointment to the Department of State as undersecretary.
And, because conspiracy theorists can never keep their mouths shut about anything, he s got an absolutely wild theory about the Russian hacks: Obama did it.Seriously, that s the idea he floated on Fox News earlier today.
He thinks that the hacks may have actually been a false flag operation courtesy of the Obama administration: It is not at all clear to me just viewing this from the outside, that this hacking into the DNC and the RNC computers was not a false flag operation.
A false flag would mean that Obama himself undermined our electoral process to what?
Make Russia look bad?
Start a war?
The guy sounds like Alex Jones, who thinks everything that happens is a false flag of one type or another.Bolton s logic, if, indeed, it can be called that, is this: [I]f you think the Russians did this, then why did they leave fingerprints?We would want to know who else might want to influence the election and why they would leave fingerprints that point to the Russians.
That s why I say until we know more about how the intelligence community came to this conclusion we don t know whether it is Russian inspired or a false flag.
Bolton is likely doing wonders for Trump s relationship with the intelligence community.
Trump already pissed off the CIA by going after them for their report, rather than doing the responsible thing and calling for an investigation.
But then again, if a real investigation did take place, it could reveal he didn t legitimately win the election.The horror.His ego couldn t handle that.And Bolton s conspiracy-theorish nature couldn t handle an investigation, either.
Even so, accusing the Obama administration of orchestrating a false flag operation to steer our election and make it look like Russia did it is a serious deal.
No wonder Rand Paul doesn t want this guy anywhere near the presidential cabinet.The full exchange is below, via Twitter:John Bolton suggests DNC hack was potentially a false flag operation by the Obama administration pic.twitter.com/3rHLwHawR8 Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) December 12, 2016Featured image by Ethan Miller via Getty Images