When you think of anti-Trump people, South Carolina s governor, Nikki Haley, is probably not the first person to come to mind.
Haley is anti-government, anti-choice, anti-civil rights and anti-regulation.
In other words, she is the perfect Republican, but she s no fan of Donald Trump.In the past, Haley has said that Trump has definitely contributed to what I think is just irresponsible talk.
Sure, that s not exactly an endorsement, but then, she certainly seemed to leave other options open.On Thursday, though, Haley minced no words whatsoever.
She compared Trump to Dylann Roof, who is accused of killing nine black churchgoers in what was clearly a racist attack.
These comments are possibly worse than any of his opponents have dared levy against him:South Carolina Gov.
Nikki Haley said Thursday she wishes Donald Trump communicated differently because bad things result from divisive rhetoric, as evidenced by last June s massacre in Charleston.The Republican governor said divisive speech motivated Dylann Roof to gun down nine black parishioners at historic Emanuel AME Church.
Police have said the white 22-year-old charged with their killings wanted to start a race war.The Confederate flag that Roof was seen brandishing in photos had to be removed from the Statehouse grounds, she said, and she supports sending the rebel flag in The Citadel s chapel to a museum too.
But she opposes renaming buildings or monuments associated with the state s racist past.Haley, who endorsed then-candidate Marco Rubio ahead of South Carolina s primary, said she has vocally criticized Trump because I know what that rhetoric can do.
I saw it happen.
Source: Crooks and LiarsHere is the video:Haley is right.
Since Trump began running for president, hate crimes against Muslims have escalated.
He inspired at least one hate crime against a Latino man.
Trump is certainly winning with the white supremacist voting bloc.None of this is exactly new and in fact, Trump may be more of a symptom than a cause.
According to the Southern Policy Law Center, extremist groups have been growing, and that started before Trump announced his run for the presidency.The timing doesn t excuse Trump from blame, though.
Like any good marketing person (and we have to admit that Trump is that, if nothing else), Trump saw the insidious trend and ran with it.
It didn t hurt his cause that he was already very comfortable with racist, xenophobic rhetoric.
It didn t hurt his cause that he s probably sincere in his hatred, but as the SPLC notes, it s the job of our leaders to act like adults.
After seeing the bloodshed that defined 2015, our politicians should have worked to defuse this anger and bring us together as a nation, Mark Potok, editor of the report, wrote.
Unfortunately, the carnage did little to dissuade some political figures from spouting incendiary rhetoric about minorities.
In fact, they frequently exploited the anger and polarization across the country for political gain.
Source: PS MagThat is the most dangerous kind of cynicism.
It s clear that Trump doesn t care if a civil war breaks out.
Hell, he d be cheering people on.
Trump has one goal and only one goal, and that is to become Dictator in Chief.
It doesn t matter who is killed along the way.Featured image via video screen capture.