Obama is a scoundrel he ll say anything to stay in power.
He s counting on the American people to believe his total bs story about election fraud when in 2008 he spoke of fraud.
It s pretty funny that now he s claiming Trump s remarks are dangerous when he said the same thing in 2008!
When you suggest rigging or fraud without a shred of evidence Barack ObamaPlease be a poll challenger this year!
We ve done it several times and we feel it s the only way we can combat voter fraud head on.
Just contact your local Republican party office.
Please consider this!At a campaign rally for Hillary Clinton on Thursday in Miami Gardens, Fla., President Obama condemned Donald Trump s rigged election claims, describing these remarks as dangerous.
When you try to sow the seeds of doubt in people s minds about the legitimacy of our election, that undermines our democracy, he said.
When you suggest rigging or fraud without a shred of evidence, when last night at the debate, Trump becomes the first major party nominee in American history to suggest that he will not concede despite losing that is not a joking matter, Obama added.Trump said at the third presidential debate that he would keep the United States in suspense as to whether he would accept the election results.
Later, at a campaign rally, he promised in a jesting manner that he would accept the results if I win as the crowd roared.But despite condemning Trump for suggesting an election can be rigged, here is a clip of then-candidate Barack Obama in 2008 warning about voter fraud and suggesting Republicans could try to sway the election in their favor.
Well, I tell you what it helps in Ohio, that we got Democrats in charge of the machines, Obama said regarding the threat of election-rigging.He continued, Whenever people are in power, they have this tendency to try to tilt things in their direction.
That s why we ve got to have, I believe, a voting rights division in the Justice Department that is nonpartisan, and that is serious about investigating cases of voter fraud.
That s why we need paper trails on these new electronic machines so that you actually have something that you can hang on to after you ve punched that letter make sure it hasn t been hacked into, he added, admitting that even Democrats have monkeyed around with election results: I want to be honest, it s not as if it s just Republicans who have monkeyed around with elections in the past.
Sometimes, Democrats have, too.