Donald Trump s first debate against his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton went just as poorly as we thought it would and conservatives know it.
It s never been more clear that Trump doesn t even deserve to be on the same stage as Clinton, and all the holes in his campaign are being exposed effortlessly.
Between the fact-checking and not having any real policies or plans in place, Trump is f*cked big time.
Luckily, Fox News is coming to the rescue with some (truly awful, somewhat hilarious) advice for the inexperienced man-baby.Fox News host Charles Krauthammer thinks that Trump s greatest chances of succeeding during Sunday s second presidential debate will rely on Trump s amazing ability to lie about everything.
Basically, Krauthammer thinks Trump can win if he can deny it ever happened and ignore the fact-checkers.
The Fox host pointed out where Trump had gone wrong during the first debate: I think the most important thing here for Trump is the morning after.
He might have lost the debate.
It was pretty close.
It was not the rout that people say it was.
But he really threw it away the morning after when he went after he went down the rabbit holes on the Miss Universe and all the other stuff.
And that s happened to him before.
Krauthammer then tried to give Trump some pointers on how to beat a far more experienced, qualified Clinton: I think he can hold his own.
He just needs to be to ignore, as everybody here has said ignore the bait.
He should just dismiss all the quotations that he hears, the way that Pence did.
Deny it ever happened and then ignore the fact checkers the next day.
It is hilarious that anyone would suggest that Trump can ignore the bait.
Trump is a loose cannon with the temperament worse than a toddler.
Literally every time he gets baited (even by Clinton herself), he cannot resist taking it and making a bigger ass out of himself.
Krauthammer is basically begging Trump to keep his ego in check, even though he s proven that he s incapable of doing that.
Conservatives need to start accepting that Trump is going to blow this debate just like the first one, no matter how hard they try to guide him.You can watch Krauthammer try to help Trump below:[ad3media campaign= 1075 ]Featured image via Ethan Miller / Getty Images