Sure, we get it you trolled them teehee.
Trolling is fun.
Trolling for a cause is even more fun.
Liberal trolling is a fantastic world full of wonderful people who come together to attack ultra-conservative pages still calling for Obama s execution and to expose the stupidity of the right to as many young people as possible.
What you don t find in the world of liberal trolls are trolls who troll each other.This election, things have gone poorly for the mud-slinging internet portion of our Democratic primaries, who have taken to the field of battle on flat screens with mouse in hand and keyboard at the ready.
This thing called Bernie Sanders happened, and a lot of people got on board.
I got on board.
I m still on board.
If he wins I ll happily usher him into the White House.
If he loses, I ll support former First Lady, Senator and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
That eliminates me from contention in the ridiculous war between the extremist camps of both of these campaigns.Bernie or Bust, which is the dumbest political philosophy of all time, was born of those who are yet to belong to a party for real but want to vote for Bernie no matter what.
It s a die-hard movement that will die hard once the reality of a Donald Trump presidency hits America.
On the flip-side, you have the Hil-Bots, who are now infiltrating Bernie Sanders support groups on Facebook with an age-old trolling technique that works to have a group removed, if only temporarily.
By becoming members and posting lewd pictures, groups of them could then report the images to Facebook, whose automated system will take the page down and refer it to a human being for review.While the groups are back up, it was still just a nasty little trick.
What makes this worse is that these are liberals fighting with liberals.
Once we start trolling our own we turn into the fractured right.
Conservative groups and pages are divided over Trump vs Cruz.
If we could have been the adults in the room, we could have taken advantage of that while our candidates had an issues-driven campaign.Instead, what we have are violent groups of internet pranksters, ready to shake things up by inconveniencing Bernie supporters for a few hours, causing them to get their Hillary is a crook memes from somewhere else.
Honestly, we really should be above this.Casey there is awfully proud of herself.
You can see the whole discussion where she confesses in a piece on U.S. Uncut.
It will be nice, from a troll s point of view, when the primaries are over and reality sets in.
Whether you re Bernie or Bust or a die-hard Hil-Bot, you re going to learn that we have two excellent candidates for president.
Their roles started out as expected, with Sanders pushing Clinton further to the left and Clinton becoming a better candidate for it.
Then something happened, and people like me who thought they would support Hillary no matter what when it was our consolation prize in 2014 after the Democalypse.
We like Sanders, we d love to see the radical change he s talking about.
He s exciting, and real, and extremely fair.
I m proud to have been a part of something in American politics that special.On the other hand, Hillary Clinton isn t some consolation prize.
She s the most qualified person in the room.
She s the only one of the candidates ever to spend significant time in the Oval Office, and while Republicans occupied it she sat on the Senate.
Her reputation as a progressive voter has some of the realities of life attached to it.
She s been a politician and a businesswoman all of her life.
She has relationships with people that couldn t possibly be considered a bad thing when a call from her becomes a request from the White House.
If Hillary Clinton wins the nomination and you stay home because internet memes have convinced you how horrible she is, you weren t a Democrat to begin with.Anyone who thinks that the Republicans should win out of spite doesn t appreciate what handing all three branches of government to the GOP would do to this country.
That s the real fight.
Please stop bickering about superdelegates, rigged voting machines, tax returns and urine samples and focus on Removing as many Republicans from office while simultaneously providing a landslide victory for our eventual nominee.Featured image via Facebook/Getty Images