Ivanka Trump is going to be Donald Trump s First Lady so the Internet is treating her the way conservatives have treated Michelle Obama for the last eight years, minus the ugly racism.Her father is despised by billions of people all around the world and Ivanka hasn t exactly done much to make people like her either.Despite claiming that he won t use the presidency to conduct business, Donald Trump has allowed his daughter to sit in during meetings and phone calls with foreign leaders.
As Newsweek pointed out earlier this week, Ivanka has business deals pending in Japan and in Argentina, and she just so happened to be present during her daddy s meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and was on the line listening as her father talked to the Argentine president.So rather than just shout on social media, some people decided to take action against Ivanka in a more meaningful way.
By writing reviews of her line of boots on Amazon.
And they are absolutely brilliant.One comment nailed Trump for making products overseas despite promises to bring jobs back to America.
It also referenced Trump s racism and the similarities with the Nazis.
These Chinese boots are just perfect, whether walking the streets with your stepmother the streets of Moscow with your dad and Uncle Vlad or dancing the night away at the annual Aryan Gala to the strains of A Whiter Shade of Pale, or just your everyday trampling the rights of others.
However, they are so constricting that they sent me to the podiatrist, whom I could not pay, having lost my healthcare.
My mom offered to pay, but she has lost her social security and now lives in an alley behind a deli off Lex.
Another referenced Trump s desire to bang his own daughter and his admission that he grabs women by the genitals.
Did you ever feel like crap because your dad hasn t told the world he d be dating you if you weren t his daughter?
Just slip into these hot, stylish boots with sexy high heels to get Daddy s attention and praise for your hot bod if he s not too busy grabbing other women (those *&^*%s!)
(or America) by the p -!
While wearing these boots, I found myself unable to speak, another reviewer wrote.
Every time I tried to express my opinions, I was horrified to find myself bellowing, HEIL TRUMP!
Very embarrassing.
Nor could I walk very far without finding impediments to progress at every turn.Not the boots for me!
I sent them back and bought some good hiking boots instead, to wade through the massive amounts of bs already confronting the American people.
They are worn and stained already, and it isn t even 01/20/17 yet!Just hoping I won t need my hiking boots for four whole years.UPDATE: Ordered hip length wading boots.
Hope I get them ASAP, as it gets deeper on a daily basis.Here are some screenshots of some of the many other hilarious reviews.Ivanka Trump and her daddy better get used to this because it s going to be a long four years and they only have themselves and Republicans to blame.Featured image via Mark Makela/Getty Images