McDonald s in recent years has become an icon of gluttony and corporate greed, from the fight for NYC McDonald s workers to receive a $15 minimum wage, to the obesity epidemic, which still remains rampant throughout the country.
Morgan Spurlock s 2004 documentary, Supersize Me, exposed to the public just how awful McDonald s food is for the human body, and how McDonald s manipulates consumers into thinking otherwise.
Over the course of my McDiet, I consumed 30 pounds of sugar from their food.
That s a pound a day.
On top of that, I also took in 12 pounds of fat, said Mr. Spurlock in the documentary.
Now, I know what you re saying.
You re saying nobody s supposed to eat this food three times a day.
No wonder all this stuff happened to you.
But the scary part is: there are people who eat this food regularly.
Some people even eat it every day.
So, while my experiment may have been a little extreme, it s not that crazy.
But here is a crazy idea: Why not do away with your Super Size options?
Who needs 42 ounces of Coke?
A half pound of fries?
And why not give me a choice besides french fries or french fries?
That would be a great start.
But why should these companies want to change?
Their loyalty isn t to you, it s to the stockholders.
The bottom line: They re a business, no matter what they say.
And by selling you unhealthy food, they make millions.
And no company wants to stop doing that.
If this ever-growing paradigm is going to shift, it s up to you.
But if you decide to keep living this way, go ahead.
Over time, you may find yourself getting as sick as I did.
After the documentary was released, McDonald s removed their supersize option, but continued to develop very unhealthy menu items.
Rather than adapt to the progressive reforms and changing cultural landscape in America, McDonald s has the audacity to fight back.
In July, the company is opening up a new restaurant in Missouri with Automated Kiosk Cashiers to phase out several workers from employment.
The restaurant, often an only resort for low income Americans for food, is also offering bottomless French fries.The company is spending $1.59 million on the new restaurant to resemble fine dining.
Today s customers seek a comfortable and inviting atmosphere, the owner of the franchise restaurant, Chris Habiger, told the St Joseph News-Press.
So we re committed to providing a modern look and feel to this restaurant.
Mr. Habiger owns six other McDonald s franchise restaurants, which requires non-borrowed resources of $500,000 to even be considered by McDonald s to own a single franchise.While McDonald s workers across the United States have been fighting to earn a livable wage, in 2015 McDonald s CEO more than tripled his salary from $1.69 million in 2014 to $7.91 million in 2015; a 368 percent raise.Featured image via Flickr