Former CIA Operative Robert Baer weighed in on the revelations that Russians interfered with our presidential election in order to help Donald Trump win the keys to the White House.
Baer said on CNN that if the CIA can prove the accusations then the U.S. should vote again.
When the not-my-president-elect responded to the report, he attacked the agency instead of Russia so we re sure Trump will unleash some mean-girl tweets about Baer, too.
Then just hours after the report, Trump went on to name his choice for Secretary of State.
Trump picked Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson as his nominee, a man who has strong ties to Russia.Watch:The following year after Tillerson negotiated an energy partnership with Putin in 2011, the Exxon CEO received the Russian Order of Friendship, one of the highest awards the country bestows upon foreign nationals.
The deal he made with Russia had been put on hold due to sanctions levied against the Kremlin for its annexation of Crimea in 2014.
However, ExxonMobil said the company intends to resume the deal after sanctions are lifted.
As Secretary of State, Tillerson could help expedite that process.During the recount in Wisconsin, City of Ashland Cyber Security Consultant Eric Ellason and Bayfield County Director of Information Technology Paul Houck said that both municipalities have seen an unusual amount of traffic coming to their sites from Russia.Trump is filling up the swamp quickly and it s starting to have a Russian accent.Our election process was hacked.
This whole thing is a nightmare of epic proportions.
When we cast our votes on election day, we do that with pride, knowing that our vote counts.
That s no longer the case and this needs to be addressed now, not after Trump is sworn in.
Interestingly, both parties were hacked but only information was released on one of them.
That information was given to Wikileaks in order to discredit Hillary Clinton so that Trump would win the election and we have no idea whether that info was legitimate or not.This isn t simply a hack.
This is a takeover.
President Obama has ordered an investigation into the possibility that Russians in interfered with our presidential election.
He wants that on his desk before he leaves office.
What we re witnessing now has never happened before in this country.Image via screen capture.