Trump s wild lies continue unabated as he continues to say that he s met with people that have never once spoken to him.
This time, he s claiming he talked to the Chicago Police Department about the city s violence, and a top officer told him that he could solve the problem in just a week.
The problem, according to Trump, is that they don t have the authority to do so.Trump appeared on Bill O Reilly s show, where he was asked about how to solve Chicago s violent crime problem.
Trump spun a whopper of a lie answering that: How?
By being very much tougher than they are right now.
They re right now not tough.
I could tell you this very long and quite boring story.
But when I was in Chicago, I got to meet a couple of very top police.
I said, How do you stop this?
How do you stop this?
If you were put in charge to a specific person do you think you could stop it?
He said, Mr. Trump, I d be able to stop it in one week.
And I believed him 100 percent.
Har de har har Trump will say anything to convince people that he knows what he s talking about.
There is no way to solve any city s violence problems in a single week.
Of course, to avoid looking like the fool he is, he said that he didn t ask for this mysterious officer s strategy when O Reilly asked for it.That vagueness is one of the ways that Trump maintains credibility despite all his lies.CPD refuted his claim that he s spoken to them, and one of their spokespeople said: We ve discredited this claim months ago.
No one in the senior command at CPD has ever met with Donald Trump or a member of his campaign Beyond that, the best way to address crime is through a commitment to community policing and a commitment to stronger laws to keep illegal guns and repeat violent offenders off the street.
Once all of this became common knowledge, Trump s campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, tried to turn it around on the media by saying that Trump had never said he met with top brass.
She claims that s what the media said, which is in keeping with the campaign s assertions that the media intentionally twists his words.CPD has disputed claims from Trump before.
Back in March, when he canceled a rally due to violence and said that CPD told him to do so, they said that nobody had ever met with him, let alone told him to cancel his rally for safety reasons.Trump doesn t even know when he s lying because he does it so much.
This is another example of that.Featured image by Spencer Platt/Getty Images