GOVERNOR TELLS CITIZENS TO LEAVE STATE:Who the heck voted this guy in as governor?
His constituents should be his first priority!
If you haven t heard, Minnesota s Muslims have been a problem from the beginning.
Here s a video to fill you in on just how much they don t want to assimilate.
Sharia for everyone: Governor Mark Dayton took advantage of a St.
Cloud NAACP Community Conversation to express his feelings toward constituents who would rather live in Minnesota than in New Somalia: Look around you.
This is Minnesota, Dayton said.
Minnesota is not like it was 30, 50 years ago.
This is Minnesota and you have every right to be here.
And anybody who cannot accept your right to be here, and this is Minnesota, should find another state.
Minnesota isn t what it was like 5 years ago.
The government is displacing the population with unskilled Muslims from Africa at a blitzkrieg pace.Apparently some Minnesotans who have to pick up the tab for the welfare colonists don t appreciate having their state given away to the modern equivalent of a conquering army.
Dayton s message to them is clear: If you are that intolerant, if you are that much of a racist or a bigot, then find another state.
Find a state where the minority population is 1 percent or whatever.
It s not that in Minnesota.
It s not going to be again.
Governor Dayton: In the past, most people would fight to the death to prevent their society from being invaded and destroyed by a hostile and utterly alien foreign culture.
But liberals are sure that if they just brandish the word racist, citizens will meekly cringe and cower.Unsurprisingly, the Hamas-affiliated Islamic advocacy group CAIR was present:CAIR Minnesota Executive Director Jaylani Hussein, who had previously addressed the crowd on his concerns on racial tension said his organization is not affiliated with terrorist groups.This of course is a brazen lie.
But it hardly matters.
Thanks to the participation of our treasonous ruling class, hijrah has become a more effective form of jihad than terrorism.It could not be more obvious that our liberal rulers are as hostile as they are arrogant toward the people they supposedly represent.
They are deliberately destroying our society through the massive importation of largely unassimilable and government-dependent immigrants from the Third World.They do not expect us to like it.
They just expect us to bite the pillow and take it.
The price for doing so instead of rising up against these quislings will be the highest a society could possibly pay: the future.Via: moonbattery