The woman who accused Donald Trump of raping her at age 13 has dropped her lawsuit after canceling a press conference slated for the middle of next week, and nobody knows why.
However, she canceled the press conference because she had been getting death threats, and was too terrified to show up.On Wednesday, Lisa Bloom, the lawyer who organized the press conference that Ms. Doe canceled, said: Jane Doe has received numerous threats today, as have all the Trump accusers that I have represented.She is living in fear.
She has decided that she is too afraid to show her face.
She s been here all day ready to do it.
But unfortunately she is in terrible fear.
So it s entirely possible that Trump, his people, his supporters, and/or other misogynists literally terrorized her into dropping the suit.
Her fears would be well-founded, too, given that Trump allegedly threatened her if she told anyone how he d violated her.
One witness said: I personally witnessed Defendant Trump telling the Plaintiff that she shouldn t ever say anything if she didn t want to disappear like the 12-year-old female Maria, and that he was capable of having her whole family killed.
That adds some credence to the possibility that she dropped the suit out of fear.
She very likely stayed silent all this time because she was terrified of what would happen to her should she come forward.
Now she s receiving death threats, which must seem to her like her worst fears coming true.
It s horrific.On Friday, Jeffrey Meagher, Ms. Doe s lead attorney, simply filed a one-page notice dismissing the case without explanation.
It merely reads: Pursuant to F.R.C.P.
41(a)(1)(A)(i) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Plaintiff, by and through her counsel, hereby gives notice that the above-captioned action is voluntarily dismissed against the Defendants.
She may or may not be able to file this claim again, and her attorneys would have explained that to her.
However, if she s being terrorized the way it sounds and that s entirely plausible given the really despicable natures of Trump and everyone close to him she may just want to let it rest and hope to live out the rest of her life in relative peace.
That does not make her a liar, though, as many will no doubt say.
That makes whoever is threatening her despicable and deplorable.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images