The Right has been in a frenzy over comedienne Kathy Griffin s distasteful piece of artwork featuring Donald Trump s decapitated head, causing many to remember a simpler time when someone could literally threaten the president repeatedly and get invited to the next president s Oval Office to hang out.Ted Nugent a racist douchebag who sh*t his pants to dodge the draft and once adopted a minor child so he could legally have sex with her has repeatedly threatened and called for the deaths of President Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton over the years as the Right defended his patriotic expressions of free speech that totally weren t threats at all.While one might expect Nugent to shut up long enough to allow the vipers on the Right to continue striking at Griffin for her distasteful work of art, Nugent isn t that smart.
I ve never threatened to hang anybody.
I ve never suggested anybody get hung, except the one time after Benghazi, I recommended that Hillary Clinton be charged, arrested, tried and hung, the washed-up rocker said in an interview on Wednesday with far-Right radio host Ben Ferguson.
What she did as secretary of state was certainly treasonous, and I stand by that.
Hillary Clinton, of course, did nothing treasonous during her time as secretary of state or during any other time but Nugent s threats have been pretty graphic.
We need to ride into that battlefield and chop their [the Obama administration s] heads off in November, Nugent said of President Obama during the 2012 election.
If Barack Obama becomes the next president in November, again, I will either be dead or in jail by this time next year.
Nugent s post calling for the government to be cleansed of Obama and Hillary with the help of Mr. Noose is still live:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Our unholy rotten soulless criminal America destroying government killed 4 Americans in Banghazi.
Period!
What sort of Posted by Ted Nugent on Wednesday, January 20, 2016Trump, who expects us to believe that his 11-year-old son and possibly some of his other children can t tell the difference between a highly unrealistic mockup of his head, says that his children are having a hard time with Griffin s rather unfortunate joke but when Nugent actually made threats, here s what he said:Ted Nugent was obviously using a figure of speech, unfortunate as it was.
It just shows the anger people have towards @BarackObama.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2012It s interesting that Trump and company were perfectly fine with actual threats, but can t take a joke.Fortunately, we may not have to deal with their bullsh*t for much longer if our elected officials do their jobs.Though Ted Nugent once again renewed his call for Hillary Clinton s murder, the Right only has the sound of tiny crickets chirping away to offer.Listen to Nugent s interview below:Featured image via screengrab