Republicans in Maine tolerated Governor Paul LePage and his offensive words and actions for a long time, but now they are finally sick of him.LePage has constantly characterized blacks and Hispanics as drug-dealers and the enemy but it was a voicemail message he left for Democratic state Rep. Drew Gattine that finally caused Republicans to say enough is enough.
I would like to talk to you about your comments about my being a racist, you cocksucker, LePage said.
I want to talk to you.
I want you to prove that I m a racist.
I ve spent my life helping black people and you little son-of-a-bitch, socialist cocksucker.
You I need you to, just friggin I want you to record this and make it public because I am after you.
Thank you.
Clearly, LePage lost his sh*t in this message and actually threatened a member of the state legislature.That s a line too far, says Republican state Senator Amy Volk.Volk is so disgusted with LePage that she is seeking a censure, which is a formal resolution expressing severe disapproval that will be on the record.
Up until this point, I have refrained from publicly criticizing any of the governor s behavior both out of respect for the office and a desire to preserve a working relationship with him and his staff, Volk explained.
But this latest and the unwelcome attention it has brought to our state is a bridge too far.
My understanding is that it would be by a vote of the legislature that it s sort of an official reprimand entered into the record so you know some sort of displeasure with the governor s behavior, she added.A censure is a pretty big deal, especially when it s being called for by a member of the governor s own party.Frankly, LePage should have been censured and impeached a long time ago.After all, his outbursts and damaging decisions have embarrassed the state so much that Maine s largest newspaper actually apologized to the nation for him ever being elected to begin with.
Dear America: Maine here, the Portland Press Herald began: Please forgive us we made a terrible mistake.
We managed to elect and re-elect a governor who is unfit for high office.
He has a gruff exterior and blunt way of talking that some of us find refreshing, but he has shown again and again that he governs by grudge, and uses his power to beat up on people who cannot fight back.
Unfortunately for Maine, unless Republicans grow a spine and impeach their inflammatory governor they will be stuck with him until 2019, giving him plenty of time to humiliate himself and the state even more than he has already.Featured image via Flickr