If there is one upside to having this level of unchecked corruption running through the Trump White House it s that they aren t very good at hiding it.In yet another example of the lengths Trump s cronies will go to cover for him, the Republican House Intelligence Committee Chairman, Devin Nunes, was just exposed as having been secretly at the White House the night before he magically discovered an unnamed source that seemingly vindicated parts of Donald Trump s wiretapping claims.
Nunes claims that this visit was harmless and wasn t about coordinating with Trump.
And Nunes thinks you are stupid enough to believe that.Speaking to Eli Lake at Bloomberg, Nunes feigned innocence:In an interview Monday, Nunes told me that he ended up meeting his source on the White House grounds because it was the most convenient secure location with a computer connected to the system that included the reports, which are only distributed within the executive branch.
We don t have networked access to these kinds of reports in Congress, Nunes said.
He added that his source was not a White House staffer and was an intelligence official.But Daily Beast reporter Tim Mak who recently broke the story that Nunes had disappeared the night before his bombshell came out noted how ridiculous the premise was.
Of course the House Intelligence Chairman has access to secure locations in the Capitol.
He s the House Intelligence Committee Chairman.
His whole job is working with sensitive information in a secure way.Just a reminder that the committee Nunes chairs has its own secure area, and he could have easily used that https://t.co/Z7E0cwkicl Tim Mak (@timkmak) March 27, 2017Nunes was one of Trump s biggest supporters during the election.
As head of the intelligence committee, he has repeatedly claimed that he is impartial enough to investigate Trump, but this latest exposure of malpractice might be the straw that breaks the camel s back.
Nunes seems incapable of doing a single thing that doesn t point to his coordination with Donald Trump.
Rather than investigate Trump, Nunes seems hellbent on providing cover for him.As if to reinforce that point, Nunes has yet to provide a shred of evidence to back up his claims that Trump was wrongfully surveilled.
Ironically, the only thing he has done is bring up the possibility that Trump was incidentally recorded in FBI wiretaps of known criminals.
He might want to avoid bringing that up the next time he secretly goes to the White House.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images