On Wednesday morning, President Obama nominated Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court.
Garland was an excellent pick who is liked by members of both parties, so much, in fact, that it would be extremely difficult for the GOP to oppose his nomination.
But if we thought that Republicans would cut the bullsh*t and do their jobs, we were wrong.Shortly after Obama s announcement, Senator Mitch McConnell promised more obstructionism: The next justice could fundamentally alter the direction of the Supreme Court and have a profound impact on our country.
Translation: If Obama s nominee gets through, our conservative majority will be destroyed for years and we won t be able to attack women, minorities, immigrants and fight for the one percent.
McConnell continued: So, of course, the American people should have a say in the court s direction.
It is a president s constitutional right to nominate a Supreme Court justice and it is the Senate s constitutional right to act as a check on a president and withhold its consent the Senate will continue to observe the Biden rule, so that the American people have a voice in this momentous decision.
He went on to say Biden rule about fifty more times and try to pin Senate Republicans refusal to do their job on the vice president.
Unfortunately, Republicans seem to forget that Biden was speaking hypothetically back then, he did not actually obstruct the Supreme Court.
Unlike the GOP right now who seems to have forgotten that Americans had a voice in the direction of the court when they nominated Obama TWICE.But McConnell wasn t the only Republican to respond to Obama s pick like a bunch of toddlers who do not understand the Constitution.
Republican Chuck Grassley said: Today the President has exercised his constitutional authority.
A majority of the Senate has decided to fulfill its constitutional role of advice and consent by withholding support for the nomination during a presidential election year, with millions of votes having been cast in highly charged contests The American people shouldn t be denied a voice.
Again: We had a voice when we chose Obama over McCain AND Romney.Speaker of the House Paul Ryan tweeted:Under the #Constitution, the president has every right to make this nomination, and the Senate has every right not to confirm a nominee.
Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) March 16, 2016So far none of the Republican presidential candidates have spoken out, but we are sure it is going to sound exactly like the idiots above.
And while they are playing politics with the highest court in the land, Democrats will be sure to remind the American people just how seriously Republicans take their jobs.Watch McConnell refuse to serve the people of the U.S.:Featured image via video screen capture