The sweep of crazy anti-transgender bathroom laws has brought out the bigots in droves.
One such bigot is Texas police officer Tracy Murphree, who is also potentially in the running to become Sheriff of an entire county in the Lone Star state.
Murphree decided to post to Facebook his feelings on transgender women and that s not all.
This cop actually said that he would beat any transgender woman in a public restroom with his daughter until she lost consciousness.
This whole bathroom thing is craziness I have never seen.
All I can say is this: If my little girl is in a public women s restroom and a man, regardless of how he may identify, goes into the bathroom, he will then identify as a John Doe until he wakes up in whatever hospital he may be taken to.
Your identity does not trump my little girl s safety.
I identify as an overprotective father that loves his kids and would do anything to protect them.
Luckily, Murphree was quickly put in his place by Amber Dyden Briggle, who once ran for Denton County Council.
She also happens to have a transgender son.
Briggle responded to Murphee: As the parent of a transgender child who is only 8 years old, Tracy, this really, really upsets me, she wrote.
I know you are a protective parent, but SO AM I.
If my son were to walk into a women s room, looking the way he does, he would no doubt be corrected and sent to the men s room.
What we ve done now is call attention to a young child, only 8 years old, who is now behind closed doors with a bunch of men had he walked in there to use the bathroom to pee in the first place, no one would have batted an eye, because he looks like and IS a boy.
Let me put it another way: halfway through first grade, this PERFECT child of mine, who is just as miraculous and amazing today as he was on the day of his birth, stopped feeling comfortable using the girls room.
But, of course, the bigoted Murphree doubled down on his hatred and said that Briggle is the problem, not him: Amber, you have demonstrated part of the problem.
You advocate your right to defend your child and state that your child has the right to pee in peace.
Yet when I advocate my right to defend my child and her right to pee in peace I m a bigot and dangerous.
I m not a bigot I have nothing against you or your child.
I would defend both of you with my life.
Yes, I will be the next sheriff, and I will serve all citizens.
I will not sit back and not voice my beliefs and opinions.
I will not give in to the political correctness police.
I won t be threatened by those who may call me a bigot or ignorant.
I have no issue with transgenders.
That s between them and God.
The few transgenders rights do not trump the rights of the many.
I will not stand by in political correctness afraid of being labeled and allow a male to enter a bathroom my daughter occupies.
I just won t do it.
Mr. Murprhee is the last person who should be on any police force.
He has shown himself to be violent against those he hates and/or does not understand.
He is incapable of listening to logic and reason, or of learning to be accepting of diverse groups of people.
This man is dangerous.
He has explicitly said that he will harm his constituents for the crime of using a public bathroom.Denton County, please do NOT elect this violent brute as your next sheriff.Featured image via Wikimedia