You wouldn t think it, but the question of how to attack Donald Trump has been a difficult one.
The man is such a buffoon, such an angry lunatic, and so proud of it all, that very few genuine critiques seem to get through.
Republicans learned that the hard way during the primaries, where not a single attack leveled at Trump seemed to land.
If anything, every barrage only made him stronger.
He s like an orange-tinted Godzilla marching slowly towards Washington.But Hillary Clinton seems to have found Trump s weak spot and during a speech in Ohio, she went after it with full force.
What could make Trump lose his mind with rage?
Exposing how unsuccessful he really is.
And Clinton didn t hold back.Clinton: "He s written a lot of books about his business.
They all seem to end at Chapter 11."
Sam Frizell (@Sam_Frizell) June 21, 2016Clinton also noted that Donald Trump has occasionally admitted to and even bragged about the fact that as a businessman he often ripped off taxpayers by exploiting debt and bankruptcy laws for his own advantage.
The successes that Trump has had are really due to the hard work of American taxpayers that he has shown no hesitation to fleece.
During her speech, Clinton remarked that Trump once dubbed himself the king of debt not a great look for a guy who sells himself as the savviest businessman in the world.Trump s response to all of this was a freakout of monumental proportions.
We just got a taste of what it s like to see Trump have a nuclear meltdown in real time.
It s not pretty.First Trump sent seven (count them) emails in a row, attacking Hillary Clinton with literally anything he could think of (including a few conspiracy theories he seems to have lifted directly from the internet):Hillary Clinton attacked Donald Trump on the economy, and Trump responded with seven rapid-response emails.
pic.twitter.com/oXEEMehgvE Phil Elliott (@Philip_Elliott) June 21, 2016Then he grabbed his phone and started tweeting furiously, inadvertently sending a message that could very well be what historians note as the tweet that finally ended his campaign.
In response to Clinton s charge that he was the king of debt, Trump said of course he was.
And that he knew it was bad for the country but it made him rich.I am "the king of debt.
"That has been great for me as a businessman, but is bad for the country.
I made a fortune off of debt, will fix U.S. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 21, 2016If you re wondering how Trump s campaign team would allow him to send such a bone-headed tweet, the answer is 1) he fired his campaign manager yesterday and 2) Trump appears to have done this with zero oversight.Looks like Trump grabbed the wheel.
pic.twitter.com/yMZApSIED2 Rob Flaherty (@Rob_Flaherty) June 21, 2016Let s take a brief moment to sum up the current campaign for the Republican presumptive nominee:Things seem to be going pretty well.Featured image via Branden Camp/Getty Images