After a whole week off, and an emotional tribute from Hillary Clinton s portrayer, Kate McKinnon, Alec Baldwin will return to Saturday Night Live as Donald Trump.
Baldwin s portrayal of Trump was one of the larger bright spots in an otherwise infuriating and frustrating election cycle, and now that Trump has won the election, Baldwin s reprisal should be a welcome break from all the hate and fear Trump has unleashed.SNL has actually taken quite a bit of flak for portraying Trump and Hillary as equally bad candidates.
That will change now, and who knows how.
SNL can be quite unpredictable, and given Trump s, ahem, ascendancy, Weekend Update s Colin Jost said: Now it seems easier, in a way, to tell jokes about what Trump s doing specifically because he s in power.
If [the candidates] are talking about what they re going to do, it s harder to criticize it than when you start seeing what they re actually doing or not doing.
Trump is making white supremacists and other extremists members of his administration right now.
He won t like whatever SNL does with him unless Baldwin fawns over him, which is very unlikely.
Barring a love fest from the show, Trump will probably downright hate it.
He hated it before and tried to convince people that SNL was in on the efforts to rig the election against him:Watched Saturday Night Live hit job on me.Time to retire the boring and unfunny show.
Alec Baldwin portrayal stinks.
Media rigging election!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2016Maybe now he ll whine that they re trying to foment a rebellion or insurrection against him.Baldwin didn t play Trump the weekend following the election because he was booked, and because he s got small children at home.
SNL takes a huge chunk out of his time that goes well into the following day.
That doesn t mean he doesn t enjoy doing it he just won t be doing it as much, though: I m going to do it again this weekend, but not all that often.
There was a lot of things online that was said about it like why didn t I do it after the election?
he told Vanity Fair.
I was booked that weekend.
Not even other jobs; we have things to do.
But we all loved, you, Alec.
You do Trump better than Trump does Trump.If you miss Alec Baldwin s portrayal of Trump, then tune into Saturday Night Live and see what he does.
It should be pretty awesome.
As a reminder, here s Baldwin s portrayal of Trump during the third presidential debate:[ad3media campaign= 1357 ]Featured image by Jeff J Mitchell via Getty Images