Lucy Richards, a Tampa woman who believes lunatics like Alex Jones who say the Sandy Hook tragedy is a hoax, was arrested this week for threatening to kill a parent of one of the children who died in 2012.
This is just the latest in the potentially long list of what we can expect to come from fake news conspiracies being spread by right-wing nutjobs.Richards started making threats back in January, saying things like you gonna die, death is coming to you real soon, according to court documents released on Wednesday.
She also wrote, Look behind you.
It s death, to the parent, who was identified as Len Pozner in a statement he released after Richards arrest.
Pozner s son Noah was the youngest victim of the Sandy Hook massacre.Pozner, who now resides in Florida and spends his time disproving these so-called truthers, said in his statement:We are comforted to know that the system is working to protect the victims of violent crime from re-victimization by potentially violent Hoaxers.Sadly, Lucy Richards is not the only one from this group of Sandy Hook hoaxers that has harassed or threatened Mr. Pozner.
He s been dealing with this for years.According to The New York Times:The conspiracy theorists have criticized Mr. Pozner and his counterinvestigations of their work.
Mr. Pozner has filed complaints with law enforcement, private companies, and the attorney general s office.
He even wrote a 165-page book raising questions about a champion of the hoax theory according to a September article in New York Magazine.
People don t understand what trolls are, Pozner said, If you don t feed them, they don t just go away.
When Mr. Pozner asked a Florida Atlantic University professor, James F. Tracy, to stop posting photos of Noah, the professor sent him a certified letter asking for proof the boy existed.The professor, who was tenured, was soon fired and he blames Pozner.Professor Tracy didn t actually commit any crimes, no matter how disgusting his actions were, but Lucy Richards on the other hand Richards committed 4 counts of felony threat transmission and if convicted will spend up to 20 years in prison.
Let s hope the judge makes her serve the full 20.Featured image via Getty Images/Handout