Donald Trump screwed himself over by letting his tiny little hands go Twitter-happy over the weekend.
Just because he was pissed off over Jeff Sessions recusal, Trump failed to manage his emotions like an adult and couldn t keep his temper tantrum in check.
America watched on, horrified, as the current POTUS accused former President Barack Obama of wiretapping his phones in the Trump Tower on Saturday morning.
And now, he s facing severe consequences as people want answers.It is already highly probably that Trump has zero evidence to back up his accusation of Obama, mostly because he frequently lies and spreads false information based on his emotional state.
Trump has also repeatedly been asked to provide concrete proof that Obama tapped his phones, and hasn t been able to show anything that would make his inappropriate accusations believable.
Even Trump s fellow Republicans are demanding answers to such a ridiculous attack, one of them being Sen. John McCain, who has been a critical conservative voice against Trump since his presidential campaign.On Monday, McCain demanded that Trump release evidence to support his allegations, and also trashed the White House for not being able to provide more information about Trump s claims.
McCain argued that Americans have a right to know on what basis the president of the United States said that his predecessor had broken the law by wiretapping Trump Tower.
Clearly shocked by the whole matter, McCain admitted to reporters, I haven t seen anything like this.
Noting that the Trump administration should answer questions, McCain said: The American people should demand it.
The dimensions of this are huge.
McCain went on to say just how shocking Trump s weekend tweets had been.
McCain admitted that when he saw Trump s first tweet against Obama on Saturday morning, his first reaction was intense curiosity.
This is unprecedented.
I have never heard of a president of the United States accusing his predecessor or any other president of the United States of violating the law.
Trump had given America many firsts over the past year or so, and none of them were good.
That is something we all can agree on, regardless of party affiliation.
McCain s comments prove that even the GOP is regretful and fed up of Trump s behavior.Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images