It s no secret that Donald Trump isn t a fan of wind farms, especially when they interfere with the views off his precious golf courses.
Trump has been at war with Scotland for years over their offshore windfarms, but it s worse than simple repeated requests to Scotland to not do this to him and his poor golfers.
According to The Guardian, Trump spent years sending former First Minister Alex Salmond letters full of insults, cajoling, and even threats.In one letter, dated February 9, 2012, Trump wrote: With the reckless installation of these [wind turbine] monsters, you will single-handedly have done more damage to Scotland than virtually any event in Scottish history!
You seem hellbent on destroying Scotland s coastline and therefore Scotland itself I have just authorized my staff to allocate a substantial amount of money to launch an international campaign to fight your plan to surround Scotland s coast with many thousands of wind turbines.
That s a direct threat right there, but he put a veiled one in another letter dated Sept. 14, 2011: In short, this wind farm should not be built, or alternatively, be relocated.
If not, you should ask yourself if any other international developer would ever risk investing in Scotland after my experience and all the promises that were made to me!
Another letter, addressed to Phillip Hammond, who was the U.K. s defense secretary at the time, said that Salmond had a bloated ego.
That s rich nobody s ego is as bloated as that of King Cheeto.On March 15, 2013, he ended yet another letter pleading with Salmond not to plunge ahead with ruining the views from his golf course with: I truly believe it is very important that you not destroy the beauty of Scotland, its land or its seas, by placing thousands of these horrendous looking industrial structures in so many places which will ruin the magnificence and beauty of Scotland.
Do not be the man who destroyed Scotland do not be Mad Alex!'
He would also try and cajole Salmond into caving to his demands.
After saying that the world s greatest leaders have always been those who have been able to change their minds for the good, and blasting wind power yet again, Trump said: I will be your greatest cheerleader if you can change or modify your stance on at least the inappropriately placed turbines.
Salmond made the mistake of letting Trump bulldoze away an environmentally protected area because he believed Trump s promise of bringing thousands of jobs to Scotland and investing hundreds of millions in their economy.
The golf course only has 95 employees, most are part-time or seasonal, there s a single-story clubhouse and a small boutique hotel, and Trump spend a whopping 30 million.
Trump promised a huge development with a premier hotel.
Trump promised a lot more than the government previous to Salmond ever did, and he broke it all.How s Trump going to be in the White House, when other countries don t do what he wants them to do?
This isn t about wind power itself it s about Trump, his ego, and his willingness to harass another country s leader in an attempt to bend them to his will.Salmond only responded to one of the letters, in April 2012.
It s hard to blame him for ignoring most of these because, quite simply, Trump is ridiculous.
Salmond later warned U.S. voters not to vote for Trump.
He noted Trump s immaturity and bullying nature, and flat-out called him a man-child, which, let s be honest, is true.
These dealings with Trump over his golf course convinced Salmond that Trump does not have what it takes to be President of the United States.To read all of the letters in their entirety, click here.Featured image by Jeff J Mitchell via Getty Images