More proof that Donald Trump s presidential campaign is helping the fascist arm of the right-wing has just come in.
During the July broadcast of his radio program, Rocky Suhayda, the chairman of the American Nazi Party declared that Trump s campaign is a real opportunity for people like white nationalists.
Not only does Suhayda think that Trump presents an opportunity to build new, politically active white nationalist coalitions, he also believes that Trump will win the election in November for various reasons.
Suhayda believes that the enemy is in for a real surprise: I m gonna project, that I believe that Trump is going to win the election this November, for various reasons which I don t want to go into again.
I think it s gonna surprise the enemy, because, I think that they feel that the white working class, especially the male portion of the working class, and with him, his female counterparts have basically thrown in the towel.
Given up hope of any politician again standing up for their interests.
Suhayda then goes on to say that it is time for an American Nazi political caucus to form in Congress.
He also urges his followers to adopt the guise of being pro-white rather than overtly racist against minorities.
Now, if Trump does win, okay, it s going to be a real opportunity for people like white nationalists, acting intelligently to build upon that, and to go and start you know how you have the black political caucus and what not in Congress, and, everything, to start building on something like that, okay.
It doesn t have to be anti, like the movement s been for decades, so much as it has to be pro-white.
It s kinda hard to go and call us bigots if we don t go around and act like a bigot.
That s what the movement should contemplate.
Alright.
Trump has received support from the worst-of-the-worst within the white nationalist and white supremacist movements.
It s ridiculous to think that Trump might actually win the presidency this November.
Poll after poll shows Democratic challenger Hillary Clinton winning the election.
That being said, Trump s campaign itself is being used as a conversation starter for the KKK to recruit new members, according to the Washington Post.Trump s campaign is dangerous for the United States.
Republicans who support him are supporting white supremacist movements.
Well, more so than they already tacitly do through racist policy decisions.
November is fast approaching and it is time for Republicans across the United States to dump Trump and the fascist factions of the far right that support him.You can listen to the radio broadcast below.Featured image from Scott Eisen/Getty Images