While Donald Trump may be winning among those taking part in the Republican primaries, his method for garnering votes will probably not hold up as well in the general election if he were to be the GOP nominee.
So far, he s been incredibly racist and xenophobic, not to mention sexist, juvenile and just outright rude.
All things that play well with a large part of the Republican base, and Trump clearly knows this.Knowing he s getting closer and closer to securing the Republican nomination, and knowing Hillary Clinton is very close to securing the Democratic nomination, Trump has made a clear pivot to the general election in his campaign strategy.
Now, instead of making fun of his GOP competitors like Cruz and Kasich, he s putting more energy into making fun of Hillary Clinton.
And I say making fun, that is literally in the most sophomoric sense it can be taken.While in Connecticut, Trump decided he would imitate the former Secretary of State and how she conducts herself with speeches.
You know, like an adult like a person who wants to be president.After talking about how many have asked him to be more presidential, he tells his crowd he simply can t do such a thing, because he needs to rile up and entertain his crowds so they don t fall asleep.
Then he brings out his new attack line and nickname for Clinton and asks the crowd, have you ever seen Crooked Hillary?
then imitates her walking on stage.
Then he says, Hello.
How are you?
This is Crooked Hillary Clinton?
and of course his crowd ate it up, because let s be real, they d be entertained by a paper bag floating in the wind ( oooh, so pretty!
).The imitation wasn t only horrible, it was in horrible taste.
Trump is a man vying for the highest office in the entire nation and whoever wins the election will be leader of the free world, and he clearly thinks being a vile, misogynistic child is the way to behave to gain people s respect.Trump doesn t deserve our respect, he deserves our condemnation, and any decent person with half a brain should agree.
So, let him perform for his crowd of imbecilic simpletons.
The adults who will be deciding the general election will make damn sure he never sets foot in the Oval Office.Watch his insane performance here:.
@realDonaldTrump says acting "presidential" is easy, does a Hillary Clinton impression: https://t.co/0SZwzCgxxz https://t.co/pRiNYg0Vbl ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) April 23, 2016Featured image via video screen capture