Mark Zuckerberg has a daughter, and unlike parents involved in the anti-vaxxer movement, he s a responsible parent who cares about the health of his kid and those around her.The Facebook founder posted a photo of himself holding his daughter Max in a doctor s office waiting for vaccinations.
Doctor s visit time for vaccines!
Zuckerberg wrote.// < !
[CDATA[ (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); // ]]&gt;Doctor s visit time for vaccines!Posted by Mark Zuckerberg on Friday, January 8, 2016Because of this responsible act, Zuckerberg is protecting his daughter from diseases such as measles and rubella, the former of which has come roaring back as a threat because anti-vaxxers refuse to vaccinate their damn kids.But while most people praised Zuckerberg, anti-vaxxers were quick to attack him and demonize the vaccines and science that has saved hundreds of millions of people around the world since the MMR vaccine became available in 1971.According to Raw Story, a woman named Amy Smith claimed in a comment that one of her family members allegedly had a seizure because of vaccines.
We all care about our kids.
Growing up, my mom s best friend had a perfectly healthy daughter.
She received MMR and had a grand mal seizure and suffered brain damage.
Her dr diagnosed her with vaccine injury.
She was left unable to talk or walk for the rest of her life.
So that was MY first personal experience with vaccines.
Bottom line A pharmaceutical that carries at least a risk of harm to some, should never be mandated.
Because, in the end, no one seems to care about the sacrifices made for the common good.
Another woman named Colleen Kennedy wrote furiously that herd immunity is a myth and proceeded to try and scare people by listing the ingredients of the vaccine as if this has not been public knowledge for years.Others attacked the pharmaceutical industry for allegedly created epidemics so that they can sell more vaccines.
You know, crazy ravings from paranoid people.As we all know, measles became a national story once again as the virus became an epidemic in this country, especially in California where many parents send their unvaccinated kids to school.
Measles had been largely wiped out in this country by 1997, but because of anti-vaxxers, measles made a comeback and killed an American for the first time in 12 years.The MMR vaccine is one of the most successful preventive measures a parent can take to keep their kids healthy.
Not only is measles the eighth leading cause of death worldwide, it s deadlier than the Ebola virus that sent Americans over the edge with fear in 2014.
Even Fox News own medical expert strongly endorsed vaccines and ripped anti-vaxxers a new one when asked about the new epidemic.Mark Zuckerberg is being a responsible parent and leading by example that he doesn t fear vaccines and trusts science.
Other parents would be wise to follow suit for the sake of their own children.Featured Image: Raw Story