Seth Rich was hired by the Democrat Party as the official voter expansion data director.
Although there is no connection yet, he was clearly privy to information that could potentially harm the Democrat Party, and more specifically Hillary Clinton s chances of winning the election in November.
He was shot in the back several times but wasn t robbed.
He was left to die a short distance from his home in gun-free Washington D.C .
Possible Whistle Blower on Democratic Party Voter #Fraud assassinated in Washington DC,not in MsM https://t.co/Cbem0AJvw5 #DNC Egypt Built (@HosamDakhakhni) July 12, 2016Rich s death isn t the only suspicious death with ties to the Clintons.
A UN official tied to the Clintons was found in his apartment with his throat crushed by a barbell last month The UN claimed he died of a heart attack.
Read HERE.Washington DC police are offering a $25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the killer or killers of Seth Rich, the idealistic young DNC employee who was mysteriously shot multiple times in the back on Sunday night in affluent Northwest DC.At the same time, police are still not giving out any more information about the investigation beyond saying that they have not yet connected the killing to a robbery.
Officers have been canvassing the once-cheery Bloomingdale neighborhood where Rich lived and died, knocking on doors and asking for information.There is still no suspect, no motive, and no arrests.
As a result, conspiracy theories about Rich s murder continue to fly around Washington and around social media worldwide.Rich was shot while walking home after 4 a-m on Sunday morning.
He was on the phone with his girlfriend just before the attack.
Police say his body bore injuries indicating that Rich fought for his life.Rich s father told the local TV station in his hometown of Omaha that the killers took nothing from his son s body.
If it was a robbery-it failed because he still has his watch, he still has his money-he still has his credit cards, still had his phone so it was a wasted effort except we lost a life, Joel Rich told KMTV.At a Tuesday news conference about DC crime statistics, DC Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier, stated that overall robberies were down in the city.
When asked specifically about Seth Rich s murder, she said it has not been determined whether his death could be linked to a robbery.Conspiracy theories abound over Rich s death.
The most controversial theory is that Rich was on his way, in the dead of night, to meet with the FBI and inform on alleged voter fraud by Hillary Clinton and DNC boss Debbie Wasserman Schultz.
The theory goes that he was murdered to keep him silent.
HeatStreetAnita Moncreif worked for ACORN during Obama sHere are some interesting facts surrounding the Clinton connections with Seth Rich:SETH RICH was a young Washington D.C insider, hired by the Democratic National Committee/Convention, who was assassinated early this morning, July 11th.
He was hired by Democratic National Committee Chairwoman (and former co-chair of HILLARY Clinton s 2008 campaign) Debbie Wasserman-Schultz in June 2014 as the official voter expansion data director for this election season.Here is what I personally find suspicious about his very recent death:Debbie Wasserman-Schultz criticized the Bernie Sanders campaign of hacking into the NGP VAN voter database back in December of last year.
NGP VAN has previously contributed to the Clinton campaign.
In addition, it could have been entirely possible, given the many scandals surrounding Clinton, that the Clinton campaign may have taken crucial information or restricted the Sanders campaign from having stronger momentum in the days leading up to the Iowa primary.
This is an entirely different topic though.
Certainly Mr. Rich would have been aware of the particular data hacked or taken at this time.Mr.
Rich was hired by the DNC in June 2014.
Earlier in 2014, the Clintons announced a voter initiative project meant at counteracting voter ID laws & the stripping of provisions in the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
Another intention of this collaboration with the DNC was to increase voter turnout.
Mrs. Wasserman-Schultz at the time said she wished to make sure that everyone who wants to vote and is eligible has an opportunity to register, has an opportunity to turnout and can have their vote accurately counted.
However, it has been noted continuously by progressive media and r/sandersforpresident that Mrs. Wasserman-Schultz has deliberately done everything in her power to discourage voters from having their voices heard/accurately counted, thus creating another shield for Hillary Clinton from potentially losing to an outsider progressive.
Could Mr. Rich have expressed a personal conflicting opinion after the NGP VAN leak which would ve made Mrs. Wasserman-Schultz more angry?Another Reddit user on r/politics noticed that Mr. Rich s LinkedIn Page detailed his work for a firm called Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.
The CEO of this firm is a man named Stan Greenberg, a man who was a leading political strategist for Bill Clinton during his presidency.
This man also re-branded BP as a green petroleum company.
Is it possible that Mr. Rich was aware of the public s disdain for oil industry/fracking?
Clearly going against the oil industry would mean a significant loss of profits.
The U.S, as it is, has been oil dependent for ages, and the fight to change the climate has never been hotter than right now.In the months leading up to the BP oil spill, Mr. Rich was also a legislative affairs consultant for another firm called Kissel E & S Associates.
When I happened to google Kissel E&S Associates, Clinton , one of the front page results led to a University of Nebraska paper, and written during Hillary Clinton s tenure as Secretary of State.
This paper is titled Conflicts in the Licensing Process for TransCanada s Keystone XL Pipeline.
The Keystone XL Pipeline is one of the MANY positions on which Hillary Clinton has flip-flopped on.
Could Mr. Rich have dissented with some very powerful oil company interests who were looking to negotiate a backroom deal with the DNC?Mr.
Rich also happened to previously work for former Nebraska Senator & Governor Ben Nelson.
Former Senator Nelson happens to be a more conservative-leaning Democrat, but he also happened to be on the Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittees on Homeland Security/Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and was a member of the International Conservation Caucus.
Senator Nelson, in 2010, was the deciding vote to help block a Wall Street reform bill.
He also contributed a crucial vote to help pass Obamacare back in 2009.
Senator Nelson also suddenly quit his position in 2013, and was at the center of the Obamacare Supreme Court ruling last year.
Finally, I don t think that this is related to the conspiracy theory at hand, but last October, his daughter died from an accidental fall.Mr.
Rich was murdered in the back by an unknown assailant with a gun.
At 4:20 in the morning.
Near Howard University.
Not exactly the type of person who would be targeted in a nicer area of D.C. (I am aware D.C has lots of impoverished areas/urban decay.)
The District of Columbia happens to have a ban on the sale or purchase of handguns, but nearby Virginia has some of the most relaxed gun laws in the country.
And although there are many insiders who work for Washington D.C, wouldn t it take someone with intelligence to know and particularly target somebody who happened to have crucial intelligence that could decide this election?The police, as of July 11, don t have any suspects, witnesses, or surveillance footage at this time.
They also refused to comment if it was possibly related to recent robberies in the neighborhood.
It can be disputed that this was but a botched robbery, however, because nothing was taken from Mr. Rich s dead body.
One of the earliest rumored victims of the Clinton body count was Mary Mahoney, who died in a similar fashion as she was about to testify against Bill Clinton (and who had nothing taken from her body at the time of her death.)
(In comparison, The Manson family didn t steal anything from Sharon Tate s house when they brutally murdered her and others.
The Family was also accused of killing multiple potential dissenters during and after Manson s trial, for a sickening comparison.
)The TIMING of this tragedy seems too coincidental /accurately timed.
I think/know that:8a.
Mr. Rich s sudden death comes the day before Bernie Sanders is set to endorse Hillary Clinton at a party unity rally tomorrow.
Chairwoman-elect of the Nebraska Democratic Party (Rich s home state), Jane Kleeb, spoke of Rich as a young Nebraskan who worked on campaigns and stood for progressive issues.
8b.
As of Monday the 11th, the Democratic National Convention is set to take place in exactly two weeks, and the Republican National Convention in exactly one.
In addition, Bernie Sanders is set to speak at FDR Park on the 24th, about where the political revolution goes from here.8c.
Hillary-supporting Governor of Connecticut Dan Malloy is currently under investigation over a Cigna merger.
Hillary-supporting U.S Rep Corinne Brown is also currently under investigation over her super-gerrymandered Florida district (Wasserman-Schultz is from Florida).8d.
There are currently RICO lawsuits investigating multiple counts of electoral fraud, and surprisingly, these lawsuits are pulling through the courts and gaining traction.
Mr. Rich could have been aware of the American people actually standing a chance with these lawsuits, and given his access to crucial voter data, could have decided to be a DNC defector and testify on behalf of the people in charge of these electoral fraud lawsuits.
8e.
There is still a possibility that Russia/Julian Assange has DNC information and could be planning to leak it to the public in time for the convention.
Mr. Rich could have known of this.