White House press secretary Sean Spicer went to his safe place at Fox News on Friday to bash former President Barack Obama for responding to the Republican Health Care bill which is meant to replace Obamacare.
Oddly, though, but not unexpectedly, Spicer did an off-camera press briefing after the interview.
The White House has shrouded itself with secrecy while keeping the press they launched a war with at bay, thus keeping voters in the dark about the goings on of the Trump administration.Spicer briefing today at WH is off-camera.
But he was live this morning on @FoxNews.
pic.twitter.com/XxjkNUBVZR Mark Knoller (@markknoller) June 23, 2017On Thursday, Obama, who had not posted on his Facebook page since his final address on January 10th, took his gloves off to sound the alarm about the fundamental meanness at the core of Trumpcare.
On Tuesday, Trump called the GOP House health care replacement mean but apparently Spicer didn t read about that.
Simply put, if there s a chance you might get sick, get old, or start a family this bill will do you harm, Obama wrote.
And small tweaks over the course of the next couple weeks, under the guise of making these bills easier to stomach, cannot change the fundamental meanness at the core of this legislation.
Well, the real meanness is allowing American people to believe that ObamaCare is still alive, Spicer said during the interview with Fox News.
ObamaCare is dead it isn t an option, Spicer insisted.
I think we need to face the reality of that.
When people want to compare this bill with ObamaCare it s an unfair comparison.
Spicer said that the chances are very high the GOP bill will pass, and said it would help families hurt by ObamaCare.
I don t know how it s mean to provide people healthcare and that s what we re doing here, he added.Watch: Spicey is in the minority with his views on Trumpcare.
A mere 17 percent of Americans support the GOP health care plan.Trump/Reublicare would also repeal virtually all the tax increases imposed by the Affordable Care Act to pay for itself.
It would in effect hand a broad tax cut to the wealthy, paid for by billions of dollars sliced from Medicaid.
It would offer states the ability to drop many of the benefits required by the Affordable Care Act, like maternity care, emergency services and mental health treatment.Meanwhile, Spicer defended this travesty of a proposal on Fox News while keeping the cameras off during the press briefing.
Republicans are aware that American voters are pissed off at the concept of having their families health care gutted while the rich get richer.Image via screen capture.