Just a few days after activist and filmmaker Michael Moore wrote an open letter to Ivanka Trump begging her to convince her father to end his presidential campaign because Trump is not well, Moore has released another article explaining the insane downward spiral that Trump s campaign has been going down.According to Moore s column on the AlterNet, Trump is trying to lose this election on purpose because he never wanted to be President of the United States in the first place.
Moore believes that the only reason Trump was running was so that he could get a better deal on the next season of his reality TV show The Apprentice.
Moore wrote that Trump: never wanted to be president of the United States.
I know this for a fact.
I m not going to say how I know it.
I m not saying that Trump and I shared the same agent or lawyer or stylist or, if we did, that that would have anything to do with anything.
And I m certainly not saying that I ever overheard anything at those agencies or in the hallways of NBC or anywhere else.
But there are certain people reading this right now, they know who they are, and they know that every word in the following paragraphs actually happened.
Moore outlined that Trump had actually been bitter about a deal involving his shows, and felt this was a way to get more money out of it.
Trump openly admitted that he was thinking about moving his shows to another network, and then launched a presidential campaign that was never meant to make it this far.
So, on June 16th of last year, he rode down his golden escalator and opened his mouth.
With no campaign staff, no 50-state campaign infrastructure neither of which he needed because, remember, this wasn t going to be a real campaign and with no prepared script, he went off the rails at his kick-off press conference, calling Mexicans rapists and drug dealers and pledging to build a wall to keep them all out.
Jaws in the room were agape.
His comments were so offensive, NBC, far from offering him a bigger paycheck, immediately fired him with this terse statement: Due to the recent derogatory statements by Donald Trump regarding immigrants, NBCUniversal is ending its business relationship with Mr. Trump.
Of course, Trump s plans backfired because he found himself fired by NBC.
But another thing he didn t expect, was that he had struck a nerve in America s most racist and hateful population.
Moore said: And then something happened.
And to be honest, if it happened to you, you might have reacted the same way.
Trump, to his own surprise, ignited the country, especially among people who were the opposite of billionaires.
He went straight to #1 in the polls of Republican voters.
Up to 30,000 boisterous supporters started showing up to his rallies.
TV ate it up.
He became addicted to the way people responded to him, so his presidential campaign only continued on: Trump fell in love with himself all over again, and he soon forgot his mission to get a good deal for a TV show.
Trump never expected to become the leader of the GOP, but after winning the New Jersey primary, Moore believes that Trump s thoughts were something like, I m actually going to be the Republican nominee and my rich beautiful life is f#*@ing over!
Upon realizing that he wanted nothing to do with actually leading the country, Trump has been on self-destruction mode with controversy after controversy over the past few weeks.
By this past weekend, the look on his face said it all I hate this!
I want my show back!
But it was too late.
He was damaged goods, his brand beyond repair, a worldwide laughing stock and worse, a soon-to-be loser.
Many now are sensing the end game here because they know Trump seriously doesn t want to do the actual job and, most importantly, he cannot and WILL NOT suffer through being officially and legally declared a loser LOSER!
on the night of November 8th.
The fact that Trump has been self-sabotaging is a theory that is being touted more and more now that Trump s behavior becomes even more erratic.
Moore s insight definitely makes sense here.
Trump was a victim of his own ego and how he (and the GOP) are stuck with the consequences.Featured image is a screenshot