Since John Oliver left the Daily Show to take a spot on HBO, his is one of the few satirical news shows to regularly follow international news.
As it turns out, dictators don t generally respond well to satire and Oliver has found himself in a bit of a brush up with the Kremlin-backed ruler of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov all over a lost cat.In a segment on HBO s Last Week Tonight, Oliver ridiculed the friend of Putin after Kadyrov took to Instagram to ask the world to help find his cat, which he called a toyger, which as you might guess, is a cat that has been bred to look like a tiger cub.
.
.
, .
- .
, - , , , .
.
, - .
, .
, .
, - .
????????
# # # # # A photo posted by Ramzan Kadyrov (@kadyrov_95) on May 16, 2016 at 4:29am PDTUnfortunately, without the help of unreliable translation software, we don t know exactly what the post says, but he did ask for help and he did say that we have begun to seriously worry, asking people who have seen the cat to get in touch.Now, Kadyrov is not a nice person, despite his apparent love of cats, so Oliver couldn t leave it alone.
Not only did he release the video, but Oliver trolled the leader on Twitter.Here s the video:And this: .
@RKadyrov Is this your cat?
pic.twitter.com/2UacV3km7J John Oliver (@iamjohnoliver) May 23, 2016Featured image via Twitter.
Kadyrov was not happy.
Apparently, he follows American social media as carefully as the equally thin-skinned Donald Trump.
He once again took to Instagram to mock Oliver, this time in English, although the text reads like he ran it through one of those terrible translation programs.Recently my tiger cat has left the house.
It happens in spring from time to time.
He also needs to meet with friends, mingle and share news.
By cat rumors he has in our district a familiar she-cat with which he s going to start a family.
I m sure that after spring affairs, the cat will return to native walls.
Perhaps, he ll bring his sweet love with him.
I got used to share with my friends in Instagram with all news, including cat issues.
And this time I didn t want to leave as a secret the cat s adventures.
I receive lots of photos.
Some people say that they saw the cat in Vladivostok, Japan, Iceland, New Zealand, and even in the Oval Office of the White House!
I am grateful to all, but this is NOT my cat.
It became known that even the American TV channel HBO joined to search.
The anchorman comedian John Oliver asks millions of viewers to look for a cat.
I knew long ago that in the USA unevenly breathe to my younger friends.
One day horses aren t allowed to jump, the other a cat is a real star of a show.
Oliver laments a fact that we put on t-shirts with a photo of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
Yes, millions of people rejoice t-shirts with the image of the national leader.
For this purpose, there is a good motivation.
Vladimir Vladimirovich is a wise, courageous, resolute Head, who managed to withstand unfriendly campaign, which is conducted by the USA and its assistants.
Thanks to Putin, we have crushed terrorists among whom there were also citizens of the USA, and European citizens.
The country directed by Obama under the guise of peacekeeping operations spark new wars and bloody internal conflicts, in which die millions of people.
Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria That s why there is nothing surprising that Oliver also got a wish to appear publicly in a T-shirt with an image of Putin, but not Obama.
#Kadyrov #Russia #Chechnya #USA #HBO #Oliver #findkadyrovscat #Ihavenotseenyourcat #IHAVESEENYOURCATA photo posted by Ramzan Kadyrov (@kadyrov_95) on May 23, 2016 at 11:41am PDTThis would all be funny, and well, it actually is, but Kadyrov is one of the most notorious human rights abusers in the world and if he has his way, he ll have a lot more influence in the coming months and years.
At just 39, the anti-Muslim activist is looking for a position to be made for him in the Kremlin.Critics accuse the leader of kidnapping, torture, torching of homes and other human rights abuses.
According to Human Rights Watch, Kadyrov shuts down all critics in Chechnya and now he s trying to shut one down in the United States.
Kadyrov is also a strong admirer of Russian strong-man dictator, Vladimir Putin.He said it was no surprise that he liked to wear Putin T-shirts, and that millions of people rejoice t-shirts with the image of the national leader .
This, said Kadyrov, was because Putin is a wise, courageous, resolute Head, who managed to withstand unfriendly campaign, which is conducted by the USA and its assistants .Source: The GuardianAs for the cat, well, he s apparently okay.
He s apparently just a Catanova.
By cat rumors he has in our district a familiar she-cat with which he s going to start a family.
I m sure that after spring affairs, the cat will return to native walls.
Perhaps, he ll bring his sweet love with him, Kadyrov wrote.For now, though, perhaps Oliver should have his food tested for polonium-210.
Kidding.
Sort of.