Taxpayers need to start calling out the colleges and universities they re funding with their tax dollars.
This kind of communist indoctrination, that is being widely accepted as the norm is NOT okay!
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill issued a guide this week which instructs students that Christmas vacations and telling a woman I love your shoes!
are microagressions.
The taxpayer-funded guide entitled Career corner: Understanding microaggressions also identifies golf outings and the words boyfriend and girlfriend as microagressions.The UNC Chapel Hill guide, published on Thursday, covers a wide range of menacing microaggressions which are everyday words that radical leftists have decided to be angry or frustrated about.Christmas vacations are a microagression, the public university pontificates, because academic calendars and encouraged vacations which are organized around major religious observances centralize the Christian faith and diminish non-Christian spiritual rituals and observances.
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill issued a guide this week which instructs students that Christmas vacations and telling a woman I love your shoes!
are microagressions.
The microagression of liking shoes occurs when someone says I love your shoes!
to a woman in leadership during a Q & A after a speech.
So it s a very specific microagression.
The problem, the University of North Carolina document declares, is that the shoe admirer values appearances more than intellectual contributions.
Similarly, the public school pronounces, interrupting any woman who is speaking is a microagression.Golf outings are also a microagression, the University of North Carolina says, because suggesting a staff retreat at the country club or even just a round of golf assumes employees have the financial resources to participate in the fairly expensive and inaccessible sport.
(As an aside, daily greens fees at the gorgeous UNC Finley Golf Club range from $30 for students to $40 for professors and administrators.
)The words boyfriend and girlfriend as well as husband and wife are microaggressions, the University of North Carolina admonishes, because these words set the expectation that people do not identify as LGBTQ until they say otherwise or disclose their sexual orientation.
The correct terms are now partner and spouse, UNC Chapel Hill demands.In this same vein, bureaucratic forms only containing the options male and female are microagressions, the taxpayer-funded flagship school says.
It s also a microagression to refer to men who dress up as women with the pronouns he or him, UNC Chapel Hill scolds.Still more microagressions cited by UNC Chapel Hill include complimenting a foreign-born person s English skills, saying I get ADHD sometimes and telling a person you don t judge them by the color of their skinThe two lady authors of the UNC Chapel Hill microagressions guide are Sharbari Dey, an assistant director of multicultural affairs, and Krista Prince, a dorm life coordinator.In order to counter the multitude of microagressions listed in their document, Dey and Prince advise students to respond by interrupting and aggressively asking, What did you mean by that?
UNC Chapel Hill is home to a cultural competency workshop which instructs that white people are privileged because they can buy Band-Aids in flesh color and have them more or less match their vaguely beige-hued skin.
At least some students have apparently been required to participate in the workshop.Via: Daily Caller h/t Campus Reform