Secretary of Defense James Mattis was asked in an interview airing Sunday what keeps him up at night His answer is epic!
This man is a great choice by President Trump!At the end of an interview on Face The Nation , Mattis was asked about the variety of threats facing the United States.
Interviewer John Dickerson asked Mattis the odd question: what keeps you awake at night?
Without hesitation, Mattis replied, Nothing, I keep other people awake at night.
Fearless!
That s what you need in a SOD.
16 BEST QUOTES From General James Mad Dog Mattis most revered Marine in a generation 1.
I don t lose any sleep at night over the potential for failure.
I cannot even spell the word.
(San Diego Union Tribune)2.
The first time you blow someone away is not an insignificant event.
That said, there are some assholes in the world that just need to be shot.
(Business Insider)3.
I come in peace.
I didn t bring artillery.
But I m pleading with you, with tears in my eyes: If you fuck with me, I ll kill you all.
(San Diego Union Tribune)4.
Find the enemy that wants to end this experiment (in American democracy) and kill every one of them until they re so sick of the killing that they leave us and our freedoms intact.
(San Diego Union Tribune)5.
Marines don t know how to spell the word defeat.
(Business Insider)6.
Be polite, be professional, but have a plan to kill everybody you meet.
(San Diego Union Tribune)7.
The most important six inches on the battlefield is between your ears.
(San Diego Union Tribune)8.
You are part of the world s most feared and trusted force.
Engage your brain before you engage your weapon.
(Mattis Letter To 1st Marine Division)9.
There are hunters and there are victims.
By your discipline, cunning, obedience and alertness, you will decide if you are a hunter or a victim.
(Business Insider)10.
No war is over until the enemy says it s over.
We may think it over, we may declare it over, but in fact, the enemy gets a vote.
(Defense News)11.
There is nothing better than getting shot at and missed.
It s really great.
(San Diego Union Tribune)12.
You cannot allow any of your people to avoid the brutal facts.
If they start living in a dream world, it s going to be bad.
(San Diego Union Tribune)13.
You go into Afghanistan, you got guys who slap women around for five years because they didn t wear a veil.
You know, guys like that ain t got no manhood left anyway.
So it s a hell of a lot of fun to shoot them.
Actually it s quite fun to fight them, you know.
It s a hell of a hoot.
It s fun to shoot some people.
I ll be right up there with you.
I like brawling.
(CNN)14.
I m going to plead with you, do not cross us.
Because if you do, the survivors will write about what we do here for 10,000 years.
(San Diego Union Tribune)15.
Demonstrate to the world there is No Better Friend, No Worse Enemy than a U.S. Marine.
(Mattis Letter To 1st Marine Division)16.
Fight with a happy heart and strong spirit (Mattis Letter To 1st Marine Division)Via: WFB