If Donald Trump has proven one thing it s that he is a master of control.
He learns keywords that keep simple people focused on him like kittens to a shiny object.
He s figured out that ANY question can be answered with, We re gonna do it better.
He doesn t need to provide explanations to people who don t understand the federal government outside of the guy they contract with to deliver the mail.Trump s carefully crafted message full of 4th-grade vocabulary appeals to ignorant bigots, uneducated racists and angry xenophobes.
Those people all happen to be, or are now registered as, Republicans.
Trump chose the Republican party because you don t need facts to win with their base.
His campaign was a joke at first and spun into the colossus of stupid that it is now, all built on bullying and lies.
Now that it looks like Clinton is going to be his opponent, Trump has begun selling what will turn out to be an effective lie for the conservative base: Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the 2nd Amendment.The Hill reports that at an event in Washington, Trump officially appealed to the gun nuts of America with a preposterous lie that, if his record is any indication, he will NEVER retract: Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment.
She wants to abolish it.
Hillary Clinton wants to take your guns away and she wants to abolish the Second Amendment.
She wants to take the bullets away.
Trump went on to tell the crowd how much we should all cherish the 2nd Amendment.
By moving the conversation from racism, xenophobia and fear directly to guns, Trump is making a dangerous connection for some very stupid people.
If the idiots who believe the right to beat up protestors you disagree with is in the Constitution, what are the chances they won t show their support for Trump s favorite amendment and show up armed?
They won t get in, but they could engage in some friendly banter outside and maybe shoot someone.
That makes America great.The Clinton campaign s Jesse Lehrich tweeted out a response that sums up exactly how informed people see the Trump campaign:it must be liberating to just have no regard for facts whatsoever https://t.co/CtjXZz3ulR Jesse Lehrich (@JesseLehrich) May 7, 2016forthcoming Trump mailers, probably pic.twitter.com/rbJXUXvSYw Jesse Lehrich (@JesseLehrich) May 8, 2016Good stuff there.
The comments on the article are already full of the same rhetoric we ve been listening to for years.
Thanks to Trump and a whole slew of idiots, we get to listen to more of the theyz comin fer are GUNZ!
nonsense that s become so common during Obama s tenure as president.Featured image by Winn McNamee/Julie Dermansky Getty Images