The View co-host, and rabid, liberal, activist, Joy Behar, made a colossal ass of herself on Friday when she was handed a breaking news story in the middle of her show.
Joy Behar paused the show to read the breaking news statement aloud to her viewers: ABC News Brian Ross is reporting Michael Flynn promised full cooperation to the Mueller team, and is prepared to testify that as a candidate, Donald Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians!
Yes!
Joy proceeded to throw her hands in the air and toss the card containing what ended up being a fake news story, into the air, as a sign of her jubilation over the news that they finally got Donald Trump.
Joy was not only telling her audience something that wasn t true, she was showing what it looks like when a partisan hack puts their own selfish desires above a potentially serious issue that, if it were found to be true, could potentially be a serious national security issue.Watch:joy behar getting handed the flynn news is the definition of, well, joy pic.twitter.com/Ush7sH5K3r David Mack (@davidmackau) December 1, 2017Meghan McCain, who was clearly disturbed by her co-host Joy Behar s unprofessional behavior on Friday, gave Behar, and the rest of the liberal The View panel a piece of her mind on the show today.Watch:The funniest and most delusional part of the video happens when fellow unhinged, liberal, activists and co-hosts of The View attempt to convince their viewers how Hillary could never get away with half of the things Donald Trump has done.
EW- When it happened in real time, I think everyone who was watching the show could see my discomfort at the room erupting like the Dodgers had just won the World Series, she said when the topic of the correction was first brought up.
She then compared Behar s initial reaction to that of Rush Limbaugh saying that he hoped Barack Obama would fail as president.
McCain explained, If we re celebrating a breach of national security it s going to tear our country apart.
McCain then lambasted her co-hosts for spreading fake news with her on the panel.
I went to a Christmas party over the weekend; it s no secret, most of my friends are in conservative media, [and] I feel a lot like I m an astronaut from another planet to come here to try to explain both worlds to each other that s how different I feel on this show sometimes, she said.
And I will say that fake news, and what we did on Friday, that s what I was accused of being a part of.
McCain is a conservative who has criticized Trump in the past.
The daughter of Senator John McCain, she departed her brief stint as a Fox News host and contributor in September before officially joining The View the next month.
On both Friday and Monday, she was joined on the panel by recurring panelist Ana Navarro, the anti-Trump Republican commentator who voted for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election.
Behar, who first broke the erroneous Trump-Flynn information on The View after being handed a card featuring Ross reporting, is an outspoken Democrat.Ross has been suspended by ABC for four weeks, a decision the reporter publicly supported.