NBC s Meet The Press tried as much as possible to be charitable to the Trump campaign during a segment in which they projected the electoral college map in a Trump vs. Clinton general election.
But as host Chuck Todd discovered, when the math is against you, it just won t work.Todd opened the segment by repeating one of the tropes that Republican frontrunner and likely nominee Donald Trump has repeated for several months now: That he can somehow put states that have favored Democrats in play and flip them over to the Republican Party.Immediately it became clear that the Republicans face a huge uphill climb on election day.
Factoring in states that have voted for either party on a consistent basis over the last four elections, the nightmare for Trump and the GOP is revealed, with 243 electoral votes for Clinton and only 180 for Trump.
In a contest where 270 votes are needed, she s almost there without any so-called swing states being contested.
Democrats have been able to bank on states like California, New York, Pennsylvania with a lot of delegates, in addition to very reliable states like Maryland, Massachusetts, Illinois, and New Jersey staying in solid territory for the party.By contrast, after Texas, it s hard to find solid Republican states with a lot electoral college heft to them.
On a map the wide expanses of states like Wyoming, Nebraska and the Dakotas may seem impressive, but their sparse populations limit their impact on the electoral college.Todd then showed a scenario in which more recent swing states that have divided between the parties in recent elections have been counted.
If Trump won Ohio, Virginia, and Florida under this scenario, he still comes up short and the reality is all of those states in the two most recent elections went to President Obama.Then the funniest or saddest point was made by Todd.
For Trump to win if he somehow won those states (again, highly unlikely) he would need to find votes in Colorado or Nevada.
Those states also went Democratic in the most recent election, but that isn t even the biggest obstacle to a Trump triumph.
Todd pointed out that those are states with large Latino voting bases, also known as the community Trump has alienated and attacked characterizing them as rapists and murderers from the first day he was a presidential candidate.No election is set in stone, and it is more than half a year away to the general contest.
But make no mistake, especially with Donald Trump as its nominee, the Republican Party is the one behind the eight ball, facing a series of odds that make them the most likely to lose the entire race.Featured image via screen capture