The news that Russia interfered in our election to help Donald Trump win is enraging people across the country, including comedian Patton Oswalt.Only Oswalt had nothing funny to say about these latest revelations or the fact that if Trump is allowed to take office our nation is screwed.In an epic post on Facebook, Oswalt took direct aim at Trump and the evidence of Russian interference and he did NOT hold back.
These newest revelations, that Russia hacked the election.
Piles of evidence, teetering up to the sky.
That Russia ALSO hacked the RNC and are holding them over a barrel because of what they know.
Which would be hilarious if it wasn t so frightening.And the boiling chaos that s resulting from it.
I ve got conservative friends actually DEFENDING Russia on this.
I ve got progressive friends gloating that we ve finally had done to us what we ve done to other countries.
That Hillary somehow deserves this.
That WE somehow deserve this.
That infuriating cliche about, It s actually GOOD if Trump destroys everything it ll start a revolution BLAH BLAH BLAH FUCKING BLAH And in the middle of it all is Trump bloated, grinning, oblivious, wearing his cheap baseball cap and ruining people s lives with his Twitter, Oswalt continued.Oswalt then slammed Trump for dragging this country into the shitscape he lives in and then described what our country is about to become if Trump is allowed to take office by the Electoral College, which casts votes on December 19th.
Trump doesn t spread evil.
He doesn t even spread chaos.
Evil and chaos are beyond his abilities.
He spreads MEDIOCRITY.
And anyone who gets near him gets dragged into the same sloppy, tossed-off, first-draft shitscape he lives in.Except this time, it s the entire country who got too close to him.
We re about to become, as a nation, as garish and pathetic as one of his hotel suites.
Balsa wood under gold spray paint.
A chandelier over a toilet.
Knock-off Haviland and Parlon china on which to serve a Big Mac.
And the people MAKING the Big Macs getting screwed, stripped and exploited while the predators high-five on their private jets.
In nine days the electors make their choice.
Let s hope they choose to save us from our grope-y, racist uncle who just won $50,000 playing scratch-offs.
Donald Trump will be a disaster for this country.
The working class is going to be wiped out by the time he is finished and the Russians know it or they wouldn t have worked so hard to rig the election.
Trump is the puppet they have been waiting for so they can destroy this country from within and do whatever they want without being challenged.This is why Trump must not be allowed to take office and that means the Electoral College needs to vote against him.Featured Image: Wikimedia