Video of a passenger being violently dragged from a United Airlines flight has gone viral, and now Congress wants answers.Audra D. Bridges, who filmed the shocking video and posted it to social media, told the Courier-Journal that passengers were informed that the flight was overbooked at the gate.
The airline originally said that one person would need to give up their seat.
After everyone had boarded the plane, they were told that four passengers would have to give up the seat they had paid for so that airline employees would be able to fly instead.They asked for volunteers and even offered money and hotel accommodations to sweeten the deal.
But when no one offered to leave the plane, they randomly selected passengers to kick off the flight.
When the man they had chosen to boot out of the seat he paid for said he didn t want to leave because he was a doctor and had patients he had to care for in the morning, United Airlines called the police.In the video, you can see the cops forcefully grab the doctor and violently drag him off the plane while he screams out in pain.
Other passengers were horrified.
He was eventually allowed back on the plane, bleeding mouth and all.Now, Washington, D.C.
Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D), a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is demanding answers.
Norton is calling for a congressional hearing into the incident.
I deplore the violent removal of a passenger from a United Airlines flight this weekend.
Airline passengers must have protections against such abusive treatment.
I am asking our committee for a hearing, which will allow us to question airport police, United Airlines personnel, and airport officials, among others, about whether appropriate procedures were in place in Chicago and are in place across the United States when passengers are asked to leave a flight, Norton said in a statement.Norton said that she will be following up with a letter to committee chairman Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.), chairman of the aviation subcommittee, to request a hearing to investigate this incident and others like it.You can watch the disturbing video below:@United overbook #flight3411 and decided to force random passengers off the plane.
Here s how they did it: pic.twitter.com/QfefM8X2cW Jayse D. Anspach (@JayseDavid) April 10, 2017Featured image via video screen capture