Let nobody tell you racists don t have options this election.
If you re a racist who is turned off by Trump or perhaps, fired from his campaign you can always jump onto the Cruz train and fit right in.That s what former Trump adviser Sam Nunberg discovered when he was abruptly fired from Trump s campaign for the impressive feat of being too racist for Trump.
He didn t have to stay out in the cold for very long, now he s shilling for Cruz.In an exclusive with POLITICO, Nunberg completed his 180 degree spin on Trump and now says Cruz is the only choice for president.
Cruz is a Reagan Conservative.
Donald Trump does not have a coherent political ideology if anything, I would describe him as a Chris Christie Republican.
When did I decide that I could no longer support Trump?
Last fall, when he did not have any idea of what the nuclear triad is in a debate.
Actually, he didn t decide when he should stop supporting Trump he was fired by Trump for a series of vile Facebook posts targeting President Obama, African Americans, and liberals with racist, violent rhetoric.
In 2007, he called Civil Rights Leader Al Sharpton s daughter the N-word.He frequently referred to Obama as a Socialist Marxist Islamo Fascist Nazi Appeaser or a Pan Arabist Marxist Muslim.
He is also of course a rabid birther.
His comments were so noxious, that Trump was forced to part ways with him.And now he s Team Cruz and he has a completely different versions of events.
Hilariously, he told POLITICO that it was Trump s failure to denounce (fellow) white supremacist David Duke as part of what led him to have a falling out with Trump.
Apparently Nunberg believes in firing him, Trump got rid of the wrong racist in his campaign.Nunberg s effortless shift to Cruz only reinforces what many critics have been saying all along: The vote Cruz to stop Trump movement within the Republican Party, endorsed by moderates like Mitt Romney, isn t picking the lesser of two evils.
Both candidates are shockingly bad options, and vile in their own ways.
Voting for either means resigning the Republican Party to its worst elements: Racism, xenophobia, religious fanaticism and war-mongering.
The choice isn t between Trump and Cruz, it s between either and decency.Republicans should work on building a party that Nunberg feels uncomfortable in.
He shouldn t have options to choose from, he should be left out completely.Featured image via Talking Points Memo