Of course, Mateen s Muslim father vehemently denies his son was gay.
ISIS isn t gonna like this new little development, especially after they claimed responsibility for the actions of the gay terrorist A former classmate of Omar Mateen s 2006 police academy class said he believed Mateen was gay, saying Mateen once asked him out.Officials say Mateen shot and killed 49 people and injured 53 others at an Orlando nightclub early Sunday morning.The classmate said that he, Mateen and other classmates would hang out, sometimes going to gay nightclubs, after classes at the Indian River Community College police academy.
He said Mateen asked him out romantically.
We went to a few gay bars with him, and I was not out at the time, so I declined his offer, the former classmate said.
He asked that his name not be used.He believed Mateen was gay, but not open about it.
Mateen was awkward, and for a while the classmate and the rest in the group of friends felt sorry for him.
He just wanted to fit in and no one liked him, he said.
He was always socially awkward.
In Orlando, the Los Angeles Times reported that Mateen attended the Pulse nightclub possibly as many as a dozen times before the rampage.
Kevin West said he had messaged Mateen back and forth over a year s time on the gay dating app Jack d but never met him until he saw Mateen crossing the street about 1 a.m. Sunday.
He walked directly past me.
I said, Hey, and he turned and said, Hey, and nodded his head, West said.
I could tell by the eyes.
At least four regular customers of Pulse, the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender nightclub where the massacre took place, told the Orlando Sentinel on Monday that they believed they had seen Mateen there before.
Sometimes he would go over in the corner and sit and drink by himself, and other times he would get so drunk he was loud and belligerent, said Ty Smith, who also uses the name Aries.He saw Mateen at the club at least a dozen times, he told the Sentinel.
We didn t really talk to him a lot, but I remember him saying things about his dad at times, Smith said.
He told us he had a wife and child.
The Canadian Press reported Monday that Mateen had been seen there over three years.Chris Callen recalled the eventual killer being escorted drunk from the Pulse bar on multiple occasions, including one incident where he pointed a knife at a friend.
Said Callen, who performs under the name Kristina McLaughlin, He s been going to this bar for at least three years.
Mateen s father emphatically told The Post Monday that his son was not gay.
If he was gay, why would he do something like this?
Seddique Mateen asked.For entire story: Palm Beach Post