Matt Lauer s performance as moderator of the IAVA Commander-in-Chief Forum was roundly slammed, but according to Donald Trump, the morning show host was not easy on him.
So, Donald has come up with a way for the debates to treat him fairly.
The GOP thin-skinned presidential nominee thinks there should be no moderators.Donald pulled the system is being gamed card.
As far as the debates are concerned, the system is being gamed because everybody said that I won the debate, you know, the so-called forum that your group put on, Trump said.
But they all said I won and that Matt Lauer was easy on me.
Well he wasn t. He was I thought he was very professional, I have to be honest.
I think he s been treated very unfairly, but they all said that I won, and what they re doing is they re gaming the system so that when I go into the debate, I m gonna get be treated very, very unfairly by the moderators.
Donald added that Lauer, wasn t nice to me.
He was tough on me.
He gave me tough [questions].
I answered them better than she did.
That must have been a different debate than the one we all watched.
#LaueringTheBar quickly trended on Twitter.
Lauer interrupted Hillary repeatedly while letting Donald speak without calling out the Republican candidate s lies.
Meanwhile, Edward Murrow is spinning in his grave.
The fact is, that they re gaming the system, and I think, maybe, we should have no moderator, Donald said.
Let Hillary and I sit there and just debate because I think the system is being rigged so it s gonna be a very unfair debate, and I can see it happening right now because everyone s saying that he was soft on Trump, he continued.
Well now the new person s gonna try to be really hard on Trump just to show, you know, the establishment what he can do.
So I think it s very unfair what they re doing.
So I think we should have a debate with no moderators just Hillary and I sitting there talking.
On Monday, Trump-backing CNN contributor Jeffrey Lord echoed Donald s thoughts on banning moderators for the debates.
Has anyone seen Lord and Trump in the same room together?
They might be the same person.
They sure sound exactly alike.If Donald is afraid of a moderator, then he wouldn t fare well in talks with a world leader.Featured image via Mark Wallheiser/Getty