Mike Pence is a devout Evangelical Christian.
There s nothing wrong with that; after all, that s what the First Amendment is for.
However, it seems that Trump s vice president takes his piety to a whole new, incredibly creepy level.
First, there is the way he treats his wife.Reports of a dinner Pence had with state senators while he was still Governor of Indiana are most alarming.
Apparently, during the dinner, it was revealed that Pence actually calls his wife mother.
It seems that at first, people thought it was a cute joke or something, but then came to realize that he was completely serious.
Pence reportedly yelled down the table at his wife repeatedly during the meal.
From Rolling Stone:Gov.
Pence shouted to his wife, Karen, his closest adviser, at the other end of the table.
Mother, Mother, who prepared our meal this evening?
The legislators looked at one another, speaking with their eyes: He just called his wife Mother.
Maybe it was a joke, the legislator reasoned.
But a few minutes later, Pence shouted again.
Mother, Mother, whose china are we eating on?
Mother Pence went on a long discourse about where the china was from.
A little later, the legislators stumbled out, wondering what was weirder: Pence s inability to make conversation, or calling his wife Mother in the second decade of the 21st century.As if that weren t bad enough, it seems that there are even creepier rules with regards to how Pence treats women other than his wife.
In fact, according to New York Magazine, Pence is not allowed to dine alone with any woman who is not his wife, Karen Pence.
Supposedly, Karen Pence is her husband s gut check and prayer warrior, and is therefore rarely away from her husband.
Unsurprisingly, though, we never hear her speak.
Perhaps she is not allowed to.
Hell, Pence won t even go to any sort of gathering where there is booze on the menu unless Karen is right there.So, if Pence is not allowed to be in a room with any woman who is not his wife, then how on earth does he do government business if the adviser happens to be a woman?
Does his wife get to be in the Situation Room?
Does she get top level clearances?
Are they allowed to use religious liberty as the reason for such accommodations?
Time will only tell.
What we do know is that Mike Pence and his wife get creepier by the day, and that is very bad for America.The only consolation is that it sure as hell explains a lot but the more we learn about these creepy people, the scarier America s situation becomes.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images