It s too early to endorse Hillary?
What s Al Gore waiting for?
It s clear that Hillary is the anointed one for the Democrats so why would he wait and who would he be waiting for if not HRC?Al Gore declined to back Hillary Clinton for president when asked who he thinks would be next in the White House.When questioned by WPP founder Sir Martin Sorrell at the Cannes Lions festival of creativity about whom he would back for 2016, Gore Bill Clinton s vice president from 1993 to 2001 notably didn t take the chance to praise Hillary.
In a packed Cannes Lions session Friday, Sorrell asked Gore, Would you refuse to answer the question [who will be the next president of the United States]?
Gore responded, I wouldn t refuse to answer that question, I would try to cleverly dodge the question I would say it s actually too early.
Gore merely smiled, but didn t comment further, after Sorrell added, I think Hillary will win and it would be great to have a female president of the most powerful nation on the planet.
Gore has reportedly had a complicated relationship with the Clintons since 2000.
Political insiders speculate Gore may be remaining neutral for now but would eventually back the Democratic nominee.
Gore last October described Hillary in an interview with Bloomberg as an extremely capable person, adding she did an excellent job as secretary of state and a New York senator.
But he also said it was too early and I am not going to engage in horse race analysis before the horses even go to the gate.
The former vice president used his speech at Cannes to call on the ad and creative world to help him in his fight against climate change.
When asked about climate deniers, Gore said it was a campaign run by polluters and compared their actions to the tobacco industry, which employed actors posing as doctors to reassure consumers that smoking was safe: It was deeply unethical, immoral, destructive, really evil, and that is exactly what the climate denial industry is doing.
Gore believes global warming would be a big issue at the next election: The age of fossil fuels is beginning to end years ago a Saudi minister once said, The stone age didn t end because of a shortage of stones.
Read more: NYP