Following the horrific turn of events in Dallas, Obama addressed the country and mentioned that at some point we are going to have to really think about the powerful weapons that make shootings like this so deadly.
Any guess what happened next?
Just as expected, right-wingers totally lost their damn minds.The president said he was horrified by the vicious, calculated and despicable attack on law enforcement.
After expressing his support for law enforcement, Obama turned his attention to the guns that allow mass shootings like this to take the so many lives in mere minutes.We also know that when people are armed with powerful weapons, unfortunately it makes attacks like these more deadly and more tragic.
And in the days ahead, we re going to have to consider those realities as well.Predictably, Republicans went into full-on freak out mode.
Within an hour of President Obama s remarks, Ben Carson was throwing a hissy fit on Fox News.
Now is definitely not the time to get political, said the failed presidential hopeful turned Trump fanboy.
Now is the time to use logic and ask ourselves, why do we have a Constitution?
Why do we have a Second Amendment?
They re always saying you don t need a high-powered weapon to hunt deer.
The Constitution is not about deer hunting.
It s about people being able to defend themselves from an overly aggressive government or an external invasion.
Carson said that if he were president, he would ask everyone to imagine 24 or 48 hours with no police.
What would your life be like?
Yes, there are some bad apples and, yes, we will find ways to deal with them but in no way do we indict the entire police force, Carson said.Speaking of the tragic shooting in Dallas that took the lives of five police officers and left six more wounded, Carson said that there are terror cells and professional agitators all over our country looking for opportunities.
And these opportunities do arise.
They will continue to arise because, you know, there are bad apples in the police force like there are bad apples in everything.
There are bad surgeons, the retired neurosurgeon said.
But the vast majority of surgeons are wonderful people.
So, you know, these opportunities will continue to happen and they will continue to do these things.
But I guess the real issue is, you know, the president s going to start saying, see, gun control.
Former Arkansas Gov.
Mike Huckabee took the opportunity to pounce on the president s comments as well, arguing on Fox News that Obama should have addressed the nation more like Ronald Reagan did after the 1986 Challenger disaster.
He doesn t need to inject the divisive arguments like gun control at a time of great grief for the nation.
And he ought to do for us what Ronald Reagan did after the Challenger disaster, Huckabee said.Colorado Republican Senate candidate Darryl Glenn just had to jump on the bandwagon, saying that Obama needs to be very careful not to get too far ahead of the facts, but you need to be careful not to drive your policy agenda.
William Johnson, the executive director of National Association of Police Organizations, was asked on Fox News if police officers feel increasingly under siege and targeted.
Absolutely.
It s a horrible day.
It s a war on cops, Johnson responded.
And the Obama administration is the Neville Chamberlain of this war.
I think their continued appeasement at the federal level with the Department of Justice, their appeasement of violent criminals, their refusal to condemn movements like Black Lives Matter, actively calling for the death of police officers, that type of thing, all the while blaming police for the problems in this country has led directly to the climate that has made Dallas possible.
Speaking about the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile just hours before Thursday s mass shooting in Dallas, President Obama had tried to strike a balance between the public outrage over the police killings and support for law enforcement.
To be concerned about these issues is not to be against law enforcement, he said.
When people say black lives matter, it doesn t mean blue lives don t matter.
Featured image via Jim Lo Scalzo-Pool/Getty Images