In a hilarious development to the disturbing news that Donald Trump leaked classified information to the Russians, reporters gathered in the White House press room to report that they are hearing screaming coming from deeper in the West Wing.
Staffers must have heard the sounds too, because they quickly began cranking up the volume on the television sets placed around the room to help drown out the noise.Adrian Carrasquillo, a reporter for Buzzfeed, captured the meltdown in real time:Per @TreyYingst, Bannon, Mike Dubke, Sarah Sanders and Spicer walked into cabinet room just now.
They did not look happy.
Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) May 15, 2017Can now hear yelling coming from room where officials are.
https://t.co/xh8LQ0paPM Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) May 15, 2017WH comms staffers just put the TVs on super loud after we could hear yelling coming from room w/ Bannon, Spicer, Sanders Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) May 15, 2017Members of Trump s administration screaming at the top of their lungs is a good way to describe the mood within the White House.
News of Trump s intelligence implosion came at an already dark time.
Still reeling from Trump s firing of James Comey for refusing to stop the investigation into his involvement with Russia, and just hours after the news that Trump was hovering around the least popular he s ever been in the polls, the classified leaks from Donald Trump himself may have pushed several members of his team past their breaking points.The Daily Beast spoke to some of the despondent Trump staffers: Do not ask me about how this looks, we all know how this looks, the senior aide told The Daily Beast on Monday evening.
Trump administration officials spoke to The Daily Beast on the condition of anonymity so as to speak freely.
The aide described a scene at the White House as tense and a morgue.
For months, Trump has demanded that his team find anyone who is leaking news of his dysfunctional White House to the press.
The anger and fury did nothing.
The Washington Post and Buzzfeed each have different sources confirming the fact that Trump handed classified information over to Russian diplomats in a hamfisted attempt to brag about his intel.
The New York Times is also reporting that the source of the intel warned U.S. forces that if the information should leak, they would cut off communications.The classified info Trump shared with Russia came from an ally who already warned they'd cut off info if it leaked.
https://t.co/5NPrIvPWWz pic.twitter.com/htpMfIfEwi Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) May 16, 2017Thanks Trump!In an amazing addition, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who has shown an ability to lie that tops even that of Sean Spicer, walked out of the room where shouts could clearly be heard and claimed that she didn t know anything about it.Sarah H. Sanders told reporters she didn't know anything about yelling.
https://t.co/1CNSSomWKY Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 15, 2017She also said there would be no more press information tonight Sarah H. Sanders just addressed reporters in Upper Press advising there would be no further statements tonight.
Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 15, 2017 which is understandable because how on earth do you, as Trump s team, possibly spin this as anything other than an impeachable offense?Meanwhile, Republicans in Congress have taken an all-too predictable stance of loudly sighing, shaking their heads, and giving an exaggerated shrug.Featured image by Molly Riley-Pool via Getty Images