Twitter users have been annihilating Donald Trump after the Presidential candidate made a massive gaffe when speaking about 9/11 during a New York rally.
The GOP frontrunner failed to remember the date, calling it 7-Eleven instead.Mt Trump made his awkward mistake during his speech in Buffalo, New York where he is campaigning for the New York primaries.
While attempting to work up the audience by invoking the spirit of the emergency services workers, living and dead, who fought to save lives during the attacks on the World Trade Center in 2001 Mr Trump said: I was down there, and I watch our police and our firemen down on 7-Eleven, down at the World Trade Center, right after it came down and I saw the greatest people I have ever seen in action.
The audience are clearly somewhat confused.
The misspeak makes it sounds as if Donald Trump was down at his local 7-Eleven store, and all hell kicked off not that he witnessed one of the worst attacks on U.S. soil in history.https://www.facebook.com/ABC7/videos/10153504430897452/ Here are some of the finest tweets in response to the Trump gaffe:Donald Trump has spoken movingly about 7-Eleven.
It reminded him, he said, of the way Americans came together in 1941 after Pearl Necklace.
Damien Owens (@OwensDamien) April 19, 2016BREAKING: Trump refers to 9/11 as 7/11, fans cheer, say they're "fed up with the establishment telling us what dates things happened on" Rex Huppke (@RexHuppke) April 19, 2016Trump talked down 9/11 to 7/11.
He knows how to make a deal!
Chris Regan (@ChrisRRegan) April 19, 2016@AP @robdelaney This is no laughing matter.
I lost my dad in 7/11; he said he was running in to get a pack of smokes and I never saw him aga wade snook (@w_snook) April 19, 2016@itvnews @vine jet fuel can't melt slurpies Pete Hutcheon (@daddymojorisin) April 19, 2016The best bit was, this wasn t even the first mistake of the night.
This rally was a real low point for the candidate at a time when his campaign desperately needs to regain momentum.Earlier in the same speech, Trump thanked Buffalo Bills coach Rex Ryan for his introductory speech which was itself a disaster.
During the thanks, Trump attributed championship wins to the former Jets coach which never actually happened.From overselling the winning capability of himself and his allies, and repeatedly invoking the painful memory of the September 11 attacks Trump is aiming to seize the New York primary from his rivals.
More than 11,000 people attended the Buffalo hockey arena to hear Trump speak which sounds impressive until you realize Bernie Sanders attracted three times this many people to his rally in Brooklyn s Prospect Park on Sunday.There is the unmistakable whiff of decay around the Trump camp right now, as his six never-changing soundbites grow stale, and he has nothing else to offer.Featured image via screengrab