The Republican Party is no friend to LGBTQ people.
That is no secret.
However, there is a group of gay Republicans who are relentless in their efforts to change the party s views from the inside out the Log Cabin Republicans.
They are at it again, as the GOP just rolled out such an outrageously bigoted platform against LGBTQ people that even they can t keep quiet.
Therefore, the group has penned a letter begging for money so that they can, once again, try to muscle their way into a club of people who will never, ever accept them.
Here is the text of the letter, penned by Gregory T. Angelo, president of the Log Cabin Republicans:Date: July 12, 2016Dear Friend,There s no way to sugar-coat this: I m mad as hell and I know you are, too.Moments ago, the Republican Party passed the most anti-LGBT Platform in the Party s 162-year history.Opposition to marriage equality, nonsense about bathrooms, an endorsement of the debunked psychological practice of pray the gay away it s all in there.This isn t my GOP, and I know it s not yours either.
Heck, it s not even Donald Trump s!
When given a chance to follow the lead of our presumptive presidential nominee and reach out to the LGBT community in the wake of the awful terrorist massacre in Orlando on the gay nightclub Pulse, the Platform Committee said NO.BUT now is not the time to sit around feeling sorry for ourselves.
Log Cabin Republicans has been officially credentialed for the Republican National Convention, and when it convenes in Cleveland in a mere 6 days time I want to be able to take a stand, but we re going to need your support to do it.Cleveland is rightly making the most of their time in the spotlight, and prices for advertising in area news outlets are sky-high.That s why I m writing to ask for your help.Please give today and give generously $500, $250, $100, or whatever you can give would go a long way to ensuring we don t go quietly into the night.Take back the Platform.
Take back the Party.
Stand up today and let the folks on the Platform Committee who paved the way to this foolishness know you re not going down without a fight!Sincerely,Gregory T. Angelo PresidentNow, it s clear to anyone with a brain that the GOP will never, ever accept these people into their ranks.
They even banned all gay groups from the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) for fear of offending the most hateful of anti-gay hate groups and losing money even while welcoming white supremacist groups.
That s how bad it is, folks the GOP hates gay people so much that they d rather have racist hate groups instead.
Even GOProud, the offshoot of the Log Cabin Republicans who are even more conservative than these Log Cabin types, has disbanded, and the now-former president, Jimmy LaSalvia, has left the GOP altogether over their hateful beliefs.Mr.
Angelo and other members of the Log Cabin Republicans: hear this, and get it through your heads once and for all: THEY HATE YOU.
The sooner you realize that, the better.
Get out of that party of hate and stop embarrassing yourselves and the rest of us in the LGBTQ community.Featured image via screen capture from Salon