A young man recorded himself as he maliciously abused a young woman, apparently his girlfriend.
He then uploaded the video to the internet.
The man, who appears to be in his mid-to-late teens, seems to think that his horrific treatment of the girl in the video is either funny or cool.The 34-second video shows the male seated behind the wheel of his car.
The first thing he says is, I just don t want people to act up.
The girl is standing outside the vehicle, her arms folded across her chest in a protective stance.By the five second mark it becomes obvious that he has her trapped by the hair, which is rolled up in the window of the car.At this point he explains, clearly amused with himself, that this is exactly what he has done.
Pull her hair through the window, he says.
Roll the window up.
He then laughs as he begins to put the car into gear.The young woman is clearly terrified, and begins to beat on the window of the car.
The driver laughs harder, as she becomes more visibly frightened by his behavior, pleading with him to Stop, stop.
He continues to laugh, saying something that sounds like it could be the girl s name, Jenny, repeatedly.Watch the 34-second video below, via LiveLeak.https://youtu.be/SF0s9ycMi9oThe video appears to have been uploaded anonymously.
The young man who did this needs to be named and shamed.
Not only that, but the video needs to be turned over to police, so that they can arrest him on charges of domestic abuse.In most states, if the police have sufficient evidence to believe that domestic abuse has occurred, they do not need the victim to cooperate or press charges, in order to arrest the perpetrator.The young woman in this video may well be too afraid of what this abuser will do if she reports him.Domestic violence is defined as a pattern of behavior used to establish power and control over another person through fear and intimidation, often including the threat or use of violence.
The actions of the perpetrator in this video are clearly designed to terrify this young girl.
By his own admission, he s using terror-tactics to control her behavior or keep her from acting up.
One in four U.S. women will experience domestic violence in her lifetime.
Two out of every three female homicide victims are killed during an act of domestic violence.The perpetrator and victim in this video happen to be Black.
But research shows that domestic violence impacts women from all walks of life, regardless of race, ethnicity, or economic circumstances.While Black women between the ages of 20 and 24 are more likely to experience domestic violence than white women, in all other age groups, Black women and white women experience domestic violence at an equal rate.
So before you even start to imply that the couple s race has something to do with it, don t. Domestic violence is not an issue that is confined to any race.While the couple in this video may appear to be young, women between the ages of 16 and 24 years are most likely to be victims of intimate partner abuse.Domestic violence is everyone s problem.
Between 2003 and 2012, domestic violence accounted for more than 20 percent of all violent crimes in the U.S.
It costs society $37 billion annually in law enforcement involvement, legal work, medical and mental health treatment, and lost productivity.While the perpetrator in the above video is unidentified at this time, the internet has a way of finding people out.What if the young lady in this video was your daughter, sister or friend?Our society needs to send a clear message that this kind of terror-inducing behavior is not funny and it is certainly not cool.
This is a sadistic crime, and the young man that committed it needs to be held accountable for his actions.