The world reeled when beloved musical icon Prince Rogers Nelson known simply as Prince suddenly died at the age of 57 on April 21 of this year.
Music and pop culture lovers everywhere have mourned this iconic man s death and wondered how a seemingly healthy pop star could just drop dead at such a relatively young age, but we need wait no longer, as the medical examiner s report on the reason for his death has finally been released.Apparently, Prince was prescribed fentanyl, which is a an opioid painkiller that is even stronger than morphine.
It is also said to be highly addictive.
Prince s official cause of death is reported as fentanyl toxicity, and the medical examiner s report says that the overdose was accidental.
The decedent self-administered fentanyl, the report said.The Drug Enforcement Administration was a key part of the investigation into the superstar s death, as the prescription he was taking for pain was present when he was found unresponsive in an elevator at his Minnesota compound.
It had also become known that Prince was addicted to the drug, and was reportedly working on seeking help from an addiction doctor.
Unfortunately, that help did not come in time to save his life.This is the story of so many stars.
They have the money and the connections to get almost anything they like for the right price, and it often ends in these kinds of tragedies.
The same thing was true of Michael Jackson s untimely passing as well, and he was around the same age as Prince when we lost him as well.Prince apparently left no will to dictate who will receive his multimillion dollar estate, or who will receive the royalties from his incredibly large discography collection.
A court will decide where all of his money, his properties, and other belongings will go.Rest in peace, Prince.
Hopefully, your death will wake Hollywood doctors up and stop them from bowing to the wills of celebrities instead of doing what is safe and right.Featured image via Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images