Only one day ago, FOX News published a factual story outlining Hillary s involvement in the sale of uranium to Russia while she was acting as Barack Obama s Secretary of State.Fox News What was the Uranium One deal?In 2013, Rosatom, backed by the Russian state, acquired a Canadian uranium mining company, now called Uranium One, which has assets in the U.S.
Uranium is key to making nuclear weapons.Through the deal, Russia is able to own about 20 percent of U.S. uranium production capacity.
However, Colin Chilcoat, an energy affairs specialist who has written extensively about Russia s energy deals, said that the company only extracts about 11 percent of uranium in the U.S.The deal also doesn t allow for that uranium to be exported at all, Chilcoat told Fox News.
It s not like it s leaving the U.S. or somehow finding its way to more insidious players.
The agreement was approved by nine government agencies with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), an inter-agency group that reviews how certain foreign investments can impact national security.
Clinton s State Department was one of those agencies, though the former secretary of state told WMUR-TV in 2015 that she was not personally involved in the agreement.Why is it controversial?
Republicans have largely decried the deal, especially as some investors reportedly donated millions of dollars to the Clinton Foundation.
Former President Bill Clinton also received a $500,000 speaking fee in Russia and reportedly met with Vladimir Putin around the time of the deal.The FBI had looked into the agreement and uncovered that some Russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in nefarious dealings, which included extortion, bribery, and kickbacks, The Hill reported.
Evidence of wrongdoing by Vadim Mikerin, the Russian official overseeing Putin s nuclear expansion in the U.S. who was eventually sentenced to prison, was discovered by the FBI before the deal was approved, according to The Hill.Author Peter Schweizer who wrote about the deal in his 2015 book Clinton Cash told Fox News that there is no evidence that the people involved with approving the agreement knew that the FBI had an ongoing investigation into it.Republicans say the whole affair raises serious questions.
Now it s the Democrats who have some explaining to do, Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement.
I hope they will cooperate with the investigation, be forthcoming with the American people and I expect the media to cover these new developments with the same breathless intensity that they have given to this investigation since day one.
Yesterday, the liberal Fox News host, Shepard Smith infuriated a large number of the network s viewers on Tuesday after a six-minute segment in which he debunked far-right conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton s alleged wrongdoing in a sale of American uranium.
The segment was surprising given that a number of broadcasters on Smith s own network have promoted the idea that Clinton broke the law in approving the sale to foreign buyers who also donated to her husband s foundation.Smith said many claims about Clinton s supposed role in the uranium sale were inaccurate even as President Donald Trump and his supporters are calling for a federal investigation.The Fox News host began the segment by summarizing the particulars of the sale of Uranium One, a Canadian firm with rights to mine US uranium.Rosatom, a Russian firm, acquired a majority stake in Uranium One in 2010 and bought the remainder of the company in 2013.The segment infuriated Fox News viewers who demanded Smith be fired.
Shep Smith needs to be fired for his biased reporting, tweeted one Fox News viewer.
Daily Mail Twitter went nuts over the 6-minute propaganda piece on FOX News last night.Here are just a few of the tweets that blasted the whiny, liberal FOX News host for his disgusting liberal bias.Shepard Smith: AFFIRMATIVE ACTIONThe wrench in the @FoxNews wheel.PLEASE DUMP THE HACK.
pic.twitter.com/6xQnDBcA7K thebradfordfile (@thebradfordfile) November 15, 2017Raise your hand If you change the channel when thisObnoxiousFake Overly made-upLiberal shillBeta maleComes on@FoxNews #FireShep Shepard Smith Covers for Hillary, Spreads FAKE NEWS on #UraniumOne#WednesdayWisdom https://t.co/MBTIXz7uHz via @truthfeednews SparkleMAGA (@SparkleSoup45) November 15, 2017Most viewers of FOX News question why the only conservative-leaning cable news show would want someone like Shepard Smith driving viewers away.
Many believe Shep would be a better fit on any of the multiple liberal cable news shows, like MSNBC or CNN for instance.This Twitter user puts Fox News host Chris Wallace in the same category as Shepard Smith and thinks Fox should get rid of both of them:Chris Wallace and Shepard Smith should start a show on CNN called "Pink Hat Brigade" that's where you both belong.
Shameful Fox, Get rid of these two asshats.
Matt Couch (@RealMattCouch) November 13, 2017