Governor Rick Snyder should probably stay off social media for the rest of his life.During an interview on Monday, the Republican governor admitted that the Flint water crisis was mishandled; however, he didn t quite go so far as to blame himself.
After all, he s a Republican.
Everyone else is to blame.
The checks and balances that theoretically could have been there didn t work.
This is a mess.
I mean, I feel terrible about all this happening.
And that s why I m working hard to do everything I can to repair the damage and then actually work to strengthen Flint and the citizens.
After being asked if this is his Katrina, Snyder said that it s a disaster.
So far, ten people have died and the entire community has been forced to deal with a calamity that never should have happened in the first place.
In a lazy attempt to save money, the state switched Flint s water supply from Lake Huron a the river which has been undrinkable for decades due to lead and other industrial chemicals.
In short, the state provided the residents of Flint with poisoned water.Snyder has taken a lot of criticism since the disaster gained national attention, especially from Rachel Maddow, and many have called for his resignation and prosecution, which is why he posted an ill-advised tweet on Sunday.
Political statements and finger pointing from political candidates only distract from solving the Flint water crisis, Snyder wrote in the hopes of keeping people from blaming him.Political statements and finger pointing from political candidates only distract from solving the Flint water crisis.
Governor Rick Snyder (@onetoughnerd) January 18, 2016And needless to say, people were exactly thrilled with his tweet and they burned him for it.
Here are several of the best replies.Oh @onetoughnerd they are all that is helping to solve the crisis you created.
Thank President Obama and be quiet for God s sake.
Joan Walsh (@joanwalsh) January 18, 2016@joanwalsh @onetoughnerd be quiet.
Gov Poison needs a relocation to jail.
If he had a conscience, a resignation would be welcome!
Maureen (@Maureen2) January 18, 2016When snarky responses to a politician get more likes than the original it should automatically trigger a recall.
pic.twitter.com/xQsbHc6NpN sean (@SeanMcElwee) January 18, 2016@SeanMcElwee @contrarianp @DavidKlion Gov.Poison owes #Flint a new water system not contaminated w/ lead ==> $1.1 Billion #FlintWaterCrisis Chris Lynch (@TeaPartyUSA1) January 19, 2016@onetoughnerd That s a LIE Governor.. its does NOT distract, it brings the attention needed to hold you accountable for this disaster!
Corletta J Vaughn (@BishopCVaughn) January 18, 2016.
@onetoughnerd there s no solving lead poisoning of children after the fact.
If you had an ounce of human dignity you d begin by resigning.
Sam Seder (@SamSeder) January 18, 2016@SamSeder @onetoughnerd Where s the governor s personal responsibility Fox goes on and on about?
Bony Ghost (@Bony_Ghost) January 18, 2016@onetoughnerd @jaketapper Are you under criminal investigation yet?
That s where the focus needs to be.
Ricardo Harvin (@RicardoHarvin) January 18, 2016If someone can t beat @onetoughnerd by running on At least *I* never deliberately poisoned a city like a supervillain , I ll be shocked.
Dave Silverstone (@dwsNY) January 18, 2016@onetoughnerd You are responsible for crappy roads, failing Detroit schools, and the Flint water crisis.
How do you sleep at night?
Michael A Beaton (@MichaelBeaton) January 18, 2016@onetoughnerd @jameshohmann Governor, you should be charged with 10 counts of murder.
PA Equality Project (@PAEqPro) January 18, 2016@onetoughnerd you are the Flint water crisis wheatus (@wheatus) January 18, 2016rick, ive got an idea.
you can solve this by drinking all of the poisoned water @onetoughnerd #Brand al Thor (@aDumbMick) January 18, 2016Even actor Mark Ruffalo chimed in.
@joanwalsh @onetoughnerd He s going to get a lot tougher if he ends up in prison.
Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo) January 18, 2016The bottom line is that it is a well known fact that the Flint River was abandoned as a drinking water source for a damn good reason back in 1964 after industrial pollution made the water unsafe for consumption.
So it s been public knowledge that Flint River has been contaminated for 50 years now, but officials appointed by Snyder made the switch anyway and ignored history and the facts.That is why kids are going to have problems in the coming years are they become adults and it is why 10 human beings are dead and it is why an entire community is in crisis.
A crisis that only third-world countries usually have to deal with.
And that is precisely why Rick Snyder should resign in disgrace and face prosecution.
People are dead because of his irresponsible leadership, so he should have to pay the price for it.Featured Image: Flickr