It was hard to imagine Donald Trump getting any dumber during his presidential campaign, but he s truly outdone himself in the weeks after winning the election.
Not only has the President-elect been unintelligently tweeting up a storm, ditching protocol press pools and making every attempt to hide the $25 million lawsuit he just settled for fraud, but he is letting America know that he has no idea what presidents actually do.We ve seen Trump s complete ignorance of widely known facts before, like the time he told his own supporters the incorrect voting date.
At a Florida rally, Trump had with full confidence told his fanbase to vote on November 28th, a full 20 days off from the real voting date.
Today, Trump reminded us of this moment when he reinforced the fact that he STILL doesn t know what s going on.This morning, Trump notified everyone over Twitter that there would be a meeting at Trump Tower today with the people (aka the white supremacists) who will run our government for the next EIGHT years.
Huh?
Great meetings will take place today at Trump Tower concerning the formation of the people who will run our government for the next 8 years.
TwitterEither Trump is completely unaware that a President s term is only four years, or he s completely delusional about how long he s actually going to last in the White House.
We wouldn t be surprised if Trump thinks one term is actually 8 years, considering how clueless he is and his lack of knowledge about the United States Constitution, which clearly says: The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America.
He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the Vice-President chosen for the same Term For him to think that he s going to have the success that President Obama had and be elected for two terms is hilarious.
Obama has a tremendously high approval rating, and Trump s approval rating is historically LOW.
He s certainly in for a rude awakening if he thinks he s got eight years of dictatorship ahead of him.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images