Donald Trump s media mouthpiece, Fox News, is trying to put a positive spin on his terrible first 100 days, just like Reince Priebus and Trump himself.
Part of what Fox is doing seems to be taking to Twitter to loudly complain about how the rest of the media has covered his first 100 days.
Needless to say, they are very unhappy that the media s coverage has been overwhelmingly negative.
To them, this demonstrates a very obvious hatred of Trump:The media s 100-day war against @POTUS.
pic.twitter.com/orcTyETvzt Fox News (@FoxNews) April 23, 2017Study: 89% of broadcast news coverage of the Trump Administration has been negative.
pic.twitter.com/bSV5vCoDZZ Fox News (@FoxNews) April 23, 2017TV News pushed relentlessly negative agenda.
pic.twitter.com/G09jhqdra3 Fox News (@FoxNews) April 23, 2017But this is because it s Trump.
Fox News was similarly negative during Obama s first 100 days.
According to George Mason University s Center for Media Affairs, Bret Baier s Special Report only gave positive coverage to Obama 23 percent of the time (they analyzed Special Report because it most closely resembles traditional broadcast news).
77 percent of their coverage was negative.Overall, only 21 percent of Fox s total coverage was positive, and that number dropped to 15 percent when discussing his policies.Perhaps more than that, though, is the fact that Fox declared their opposition to Obama as quickly as they could.
In April of 2009, they were openly urging their viewers to get involved in Tea Party protests against President Obama s fiscal policy.Furthermore, they weren t afraid to use words like socialism, fascism, Marxism and even communism.
They uttered those words 1,400 times during Obama s first 100 days, or 14 times per day.So really, where do they get off whining about how the media s covering Trump?
The fact of the matter is that Trump has actually been a complete disaster since he got elected.
His proposals are literally impossible, he thought he could strongarm both Congress and hostile world leaders into falling in line behind him, and he s spent more time golfing in his first 100 days than Obama spent in his entire first year.
Calling all this out is part of the media s job.Photo of Donald Trump by Mark Wilson/Getty Images.
Photo of President Obama by Kevin Dietsch-Pool/Getty Images