Cops in America are out of control, and here is yet another case of a police department who needs to be sued into oblivion due to excessive force.
Kyle Cardenas of Gilbert, Arizona is a veteran with PTSD who went through two harrowing tours of duty in Iraq.
His family says that they contacted the VA Crisis Hotline due to Kyle s having a mental health emergency related to his PTSD.
That s when things went wrong.The Gilbert cops showed up, and there was a scuffle.
The thing that is really awful here is that the family insisted that they wanted a crisis team and they also said hammered the point home that they wanted no cops.
However, cops violent cops are just what they got.
They have filed an official complaint, which says, in part: The police charged into this bedroom and attempted to restrain Kyle again.
During the melee, the officers Tased Kyle at least seven times, sprayed OC spray directly into Kyle s face, struck Kyle multiple times with their batons, punched Kyle in the face with closed fists, kicked and kneed Kyle in the thighs and legs, and ordered one of the K-9 unit dogs to attack and bite Kyle.
That is beyond despicable, but wait there s more.
When Kyle was immobilized on a hospital gurney, the trigger happy cops used a Taser on him again, this time until his heart stopped beating and medical professionals had to restart it.Of course, despite all of this, the cops are playing the victims here, and they say that they attempted to bring Kyle in without incident, but that he was violent.
Well, no sh*t. You were scaring a man who was already suffering from a mental breakdown.
This is why police are the last people who should be sent to deal with mental health crises.Thanks to the reckless, violent cops, Kyle Cardenas is now permanently disabled.
The Gilbert Police Department says they are looking into what happened here, but of course, they ll likely investigate themselves and clear themselves of any and all wrongdoing.Watch a video news report below, via ABC 15:Featured image via video screen capture