The vast majority of Donald Trump s campaign promises were both unworkable and, well, hateful.
His promise to lock (Hillary Clinton) up, was as empty as it was unifying for those on the rabid right.
It was the same with his promise to build a wall along the Mexican border and his promise to repeal and replace Obamacare on day one.
Occasionally, though, like a broken clock, Trump occasionally got it right, and now Democrats want him to make good on one such promise.Despite the fact that nearly everything Trump adorns with his name is made elsewhere, one of the cornerstones of his presidential campaigns was to force manufacturers to employ Americans.Republicans are doing everything in their power to ensure that Trump doesn t get to keep this campaign promise.
There s a bill in the Senate that would help deliver clean water to Americans and help Flint, Michigan with emergency funding.
Originally, there was a buy American and hire American provision in the bill.
That should be non-controversial, right?
Well, Republicans, who seem to stand against absolutely everything that s good and right, stripped that part out of the bill back in December.
Now Dems want them to bring it back.Sen.
Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis) reintroduced the provision to the bill:Dem senator to reintroduce #BuyAmerica legislation @thehill https://t.co/uRuOOH9Bbg Sen. Tammy Baldwin (@SenatorBaldwin) March 24, 2017 Now is the time for President Trump to decide if he will keep his promises by supporting this legislation, or will he go along to get along with Congressional Republicans who have embraced the status quo and blocked this legislation that puts in place a strong Buy America standard, said Baldwin, who planned to announce the bill at a Wisconsin foundry that makes manhole covers for cities throughout the United States.
The choice for the Republican establishment in Washington is clear: Do you stand with American manufacturers and workers or do you support spending taxpayer dollars on Chinese and Russian steel for American water infrastructure projects?
Source: IB TimesDem senator to reintroduce #BuyAmerica legislation @thehill https://t.co/uRuOOH9Bbg Sen. Tammy Baldwin (@SenatorBaldwin) March 24, 2017Baldwin s bill deals with the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, which in the last two decades has delivered nearly $28 billion in financing for more than 12,000 drinking-water projects across the country.
Her legislation would mandate that moving forward, the program targets its funding to projects that use only American-made iron and steel.It s unlikely the bill will pass with this provision, but it does put Trump s feet to the fire.
If he signs the Republican version (which he almost certainly will), it will be just more evidence that the emperor has no clothes.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.