Long before Donald Trump owned the Doral Golf Course in 1962, to be exact it became the home to the PGA World Golf Championships.
Now, the tournament is moving to Mexico, one of the countries the presidential candidate rants the most about on the campaign trial, and the billionaire is not happy, not at all.Supposedly, it s not a political move.
It is purely economic.
The auto manufacturer, Cadillac, pulled out of sponsorship, so they have to leave Trump s resort and head to cheaper grounds.Fox News asked Trump about the move, and he didn t waiver from his antagonistic and xenophobic campaign rhetoric.
Cadillac s been a great sponsor, but they re moving it to Mexico, Trump said in a Tuesday night interview on Fox News.
They re moving it to Mexico City which, by the way, I hope they have kidnapping insurance.
They re moving it to Mexico City, he continued.
And I m saying, you know, what s going on here?
It is so sad when you look at what s going on with our country.
For Cadillac, it all boiled down to money.
The cost to them for sponsorship is well above $10 million for a single tournament.
Beyond that, people just don t care that much anymore.
The tournament has lost its luster, said Erik Compton, a PGA Tour player who lives in Miami.
The community just doesn t seem as involved.
Source: ESPNWhile this isn t political, Trump obviously takes it very personally as he should.
While this wasn t intended to be a Donald Trump snub, almost any country would have been better for Trump than Mexico, the country against which Trump wants to build a giant wall.
It s also a country Trump has accused of intentionally sending its criminals our way: The worst elements in Mexico are being pushed into the United States by the Mexican government.
The largest suppliers of heroin, cocaine and other illicit drugs are Mexican cartels that arrange to have Mexican immigrants trying to cross the borders and smuggle in the drugs.
The Border Patrol knows this, Trump wrote.
Likewise, tremendous infectious disease is pouring across the border.
The United States has become a dumping ground for Mexico and, in fact, for many other parts of the world.
Source: Business InsiderPrivately, though, Trump has no problem outsourcing jobs to our neighbor to the south.
His own line of clothing is made in Mexico.
Where s his concern for worker safety in his own factories?
Where s the outrage over this??
pic.twitter.com/19h8BOQSrF Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) July 1, 2015Featured image via Spencer Platt at Getty Images.