There s always another side that s usually being buried by the mainstream media in order to promote a leftist agenda Media coverage on Ahmed Bomb-Clock Mohamed has been remarkably one-sided, with the Mohamed family and the media spinning a tale of Islamophobia and overreaction.However, in an appearance on Glenn Beck s The Blaze TV last night, the mayor of the city where Mohamed goes to school painted a starkly different picture.
Among other revelations were her claims that the Mohamed family had stonewalled her and seemed more interested in talking with the Council on American-Islamic Relations and related groups than with city officials.Irving, Texas, Mayor Beth Van Duyne said that, since Mohamed is a juvenile, they cannot release the records of what caused police to arrest him.
She says that the family has refused to allow those records to be released, according to Townhall.com.
The (Irving) school district, a number of times, has asked the family to release the records, so that you can have the balanced story out there, Van Duyne said.
The family is ignoring the request from the ISD.
The mayor said the records would help to describe why it progressed as it did.
Nobody is going to walk in and say, Oh you re a 14-year old child, you re totally cooperating, we have all the answers we need, let s arrest you, Van Duyne said, adding she had information that Mohamed was being passive aggressive and non-responsive when police questioned him.Van Duyne also noted that the family seemed more interested in seeking press than resolving the issue.
We had tried to reach out to the family a number of times; this was before it ever even hit the papers on Wednesday, Van Duyne said.
At the exact same time they were supposed to be meeting with us, they were on their front lawn with a press conference.
Van Duyne also slammed President Barack Obama for jumping the gun on Ahmed Mohamed s case.
We never even got a call from anybody at the White House asking to verify any of that information, Van Duyne said.
I don t think the picture of the hoax bomb was even released before he tweeted cool clock kid.
Van Duyne, adding that Irving officials were receiving death threats because of the case, said that the teacher was reacting to the device, not the student.
If something had happened, and nobody had spoken up, people would be livid, Van Duyne said.
Can you imagine if you were a parent at ISD and no one said anything?
Via: Conservative Tribune