Donald Trump has made it a point of his campaign to never apologize for anything, but he poorly tried to do exactly that on Thursday and Hillary Clinton nailed him for it.
Sometimes, in the heat of the debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don t choose the right words or you say the wrong thing, Trump told an audience in North Carolina.
I have done that, and I regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain.
Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues.
But then he turned around and wiped that apology away by claiming that he will never lie to his supporters and that he will will always put their interests first.
In this journey, I will never lie to you.
I will never tell you something I do not believe myself.
I will never put anyone s interests ahead of yours.
But Hillary Clinton did not let the Republican nominee get away with making a false apology.Her campaign issued a statement in response and it s absolutely perfect.
Donald Trump literally started his campaign by insulting people, the statement reads.
He has continued to do so through each of the 428 days from then until now, without shame or regret.
We learned tonight that his speechwriter and teleprompter knows he has much for which he should apologize.
But that apology tonight is simply a well-written phrase until he tells us which of his many offensive, bullying and divisive comments he regrets and changes his tune altogether.
The statement then goes on give a list of examples of all the groups Trump has insulted complete with citations.
Then it lists Trump past record of regret.
On attacking the Khans, a Gold Star family: I don t regret anything.
On assailing the ethics and motives of Judge Curiel:Asked if he regretted making his criticism of the judge personal,Trump said his side had been treated very unfairly.On calling immigrants rapists: No, I don t apologize.
On mocking a reporter with a disability:Trump denied he had mocked the reporter and demanded his own apology.This is a fake apology by Trump.
He s had more than a year s worth of opportunities to sincerely apologize for the horrible things he has said but he has only doubled down.
He cannot possibly expect that this one sorry excuse for an apology will cover all of the harmful words he has vomited over the last year and two months since his campaign began.
Nor should he expect it to be blindly accepted.It is said that it is better late than never but in this case it is too late.
This slate cannot be wiped clean.
Trump owes a personal apology to all the people he has demeaned, threatened, and mocked.The Republican Party needs to be held accountable for making Trump their leader and Trump needs to face actual consequences for all the bullshit he has spewed.
That punishment and accountability can only come in one way.
Americans need to vote on Election Day in November and send a clear message to Trump and the GOP.
And that means a landslide victory for Democrats.Featured image via Getty Images