Scott Adams, who s best known as the creator of the Dilbert cartoon, is endorsing Hillary Clinton, but not because he agrees with her policies, or even because he likes her.
He s endorsing her because he believes, somewhere in his twisted little mind, that he ll be murdered if he doesn t.In his blog (did you know there was a Dilbert blog?
), he says that his politics don t match up with any of the candidates, but he does credit Trump with extraordinary persuasion skills.
It gets worse, and don t feel bad if you have trouble keeping up with his theory.This past week we saw Clinton pair the idea of President Trump with nuclear disaster, racism, Hitler, the Holocaust, and whatever else makes you tremble in fear.The only downside I can see to the new approach is that it is likely to trigger a race war in the United States.
And I would be a top-ten assassination target in that scenario because once you define Trump as Hitler, you also give citizens moral permission to kill him.
And obviously it would be okay to kill anyone who actively supports a genocidal dictator, including anyone who wrote about his persuasion skills in positive terms.
(I m called an apologist on Twitter, or sometimes just Joseph Goebbels).If Clinton successfully pairs Trump with Hitler in your mind as she is doing and loses anyway, about a quarter of the country will think it is morally justified to assassinate their own leader.
I too would feel that way if an actual Hitler came to power in this country.
I would join the resistance and try to take out the Hitler-like leader.
You should do the same.
No one wants an actual President Hitler.Then, it gets even weirder.
Adams predicts that Trump will win in a landslide, but he believes that by endorsing Clinton, he will insulate himself from any backlash, because, according to Adams, one of the first people targeted when people try to assassinate Trump, will be the creator of Dilbert.So I ve decided to endorse Hillary Clinton for President, for my personal safety.
Trump supporters don t have any bad feelings about patriotic Americans such as myself, so I ll be safe from that crowd.
But Clinton supporters have convinced me and here I am being 100% serious that my safety is at risk if I am seen as supportive of Trump.
So I m taking the safe way out and endorsing Hillary Clinton for president.Uh huh.
So, that would be a backdoor endorsement of Trump.
Believe us when we say, Scott Adams, if Trump is elected, you ll likely be one of the last people anyone thinks about.Featured image via YouTube video screen shot.