Donald Trump just got caught lying about one of his biggest claims as the South Carolina primary approaches.Throughout his campaign, Trump has hammered Jeb Bush over his brother George W. Bush s terrible decision to go to war with Iraq, a war that cost America trillions of dollars and thousands of lives.He has even claimed to be the only candidate in the GOP field who opposed the war before we invaded and he did so again during the GOP Debate on Saturday night.
I m the only one on this stage that said, Do not go into Iraq.
Do not attack Iraq, Trump declared.
Nobody else on this stage said that.
And I said it loud and strong.
And I was in the private sector.
I wasn t a politician, fortunately.
But I said it, and I said it loud and clear, You ll destabilize the Middle East.
That s exactly what happened.
Trump repeated himself again on Thursday night during the GOP Town Hall event, even going so far as to say that George H. W. Bush dealt with Iraq the right way when we went to war against Saddam Hussein in order to protect Kuwait in 1992.Up to this point, Trump s claims had gone unchallenged.
But now an audio recording has popped up of a Trump interview with Howard Stern that blows both of Trump s claims about both wars in Iraq out of the water.As it turns out, Trump not only lied about his opposition to the Iraq invasion in 2003, he lied about believing that Operation Desert Storm was handled correctly.
Are you for invading Iraq?
Stern asked Trump point-blank back in 2002, a year before the first troops set foot in Iraq.TRUMP: Yeah, I guess so.
I wish the first time it was done correctly.
Here s the damning audio via Buzzfeed.And when Anderson Cooper asked Trump about the Stern interview on Thursday, here is what Trump had to say.
I could have said that.
Nobody asked me that.
I wasn t a politician.
It was probably the first time anyone has asked me that question.
When you re in the private sector, you get asked things, and you re not a politician, and probably the first time I was asked.
By the time the war started, I was against it, and shortly thereafter, I was really against.
Note to Donald: It doesn t matter if you were a politician or not.
A lie is a lie and your time in the private sector does not exempt you from being called out for it, nor does it excuse it.
Featured image: Flickr