Twenty-year-old Palestinian Mohammad Abu Khalaf was shot multiple times by Israeli occupation police in Occupied East Jerusalem on Friday, in what witnesses and a video from the incident show was an execution of the young man.Watch Video Here:https://www.facebook.com/aljazeerachannel/videos/10154110984474893/An Al-Jazeera crew said that Abu Khalaf had tried to stab an occupation policeman when soldiers shot him with two rounds.
Abu Khalaf then fell to the ground and was incapacitated and bleeding.
But, as the video shows, occupation police then pumped 50 bullets into Khalaf.
The graphic video shows Abu Khlaf s body only moving as a result of the bullets sprayed into him.
He was clearly dead.
The soldiers then removed the journalists and declared the area a closed military zone.
Al-Jazeera anchor Elias Karram said: The scene was terrifying, we barely escaped with our lives.
The soldiers fired so many live rounds at this young man, they could have killed us all, every person who was there was in direct danger.
What happened was the execution of the young man.
The border police officers lined-up and opened fire although they could have easily arrested the man, especially since he was already injured.
Karram and his crew were filming in the historic Palestinian neighborhood of Bab al- Amoud in Jerusalem when they witnessed the stabbing attempt followed by the execution.
Here is a graphic picture of Abu after the 50 bullets entered his body.Israel s occupation of Palestinian East Jerusalem is illegal under international law and the majority of countries, including the United States, don t recognize Israel s sovereignty of the holy city.
Yet, Israel has been ethnically cleansing the native Palestinian population for decades, annexing the city, ghettoizing its Palestinian neighborhoods, and has jailed, or as is the case with Abu Khlaf and thousands of others, killed anyone who resists its draconian policies and its professional killers.Featured image from video screen capture.