One thing in life you never want to do is pretend you know something about another person s life experiences.
You ll never know the moments and quality of life someone had unless you actually hear it from that person themselves.
However, now, in a last-ditch effort to appeal to voters, Republican presidential candidate Dr. Ben Carson has decided to tell us all about how President Obama grew up.
In fact, Carson s gone so far as to allude to the fact that actually he would be the real first black president, because Obama was raised white, and that Obama doesn t actually understand what it s like to be black.He told the Politico podcast: He s an African American.
He was, you know, raised white.
Putting an emphasis on African however, continuing: I mean, like most Americans, I was proud that we broke the color barrier when he was elected, but he didn t grow up like I grew up Many of his formative years were spent in Indonesia.
So, for him to, you know, claim that, you know, he identifies with the experience of black Americans, I think, is a bit of a stretch.
Carson also seems to believe that the racism many are experiencing now, such as young unarmed men being gunned down in the street by those paid to protect and serve, as well as every reason Black Lives Matter needs to exist, isn t really racism as compared to what he went through.
Carson implies that his life experiences are the ones that should really count as racism and other people, well, they just don t know.
He said: Remember now, I ve been around for 64 years, you know.
I ve had a chance to see what real racism is.
Carson also claims that he doesn t think the Republican Party is racist.
I don t find any particular problem being an African-American in the Republican Party.
The people I know that in the progressive side of things, they like to say that the Republicans are racist.
I know that.
I haven t experienced that.
So, because he hasn t experienced it.
Well, then, it must not exist.
Right?It s as though he believes he s the be all and end all in the discussion of racism.
Perhaps if he ever took the time to get out of his own egotistical, self-serving mind, he d understand that racism now, is real racism, too.
Every experience is valid.
Every experience needs to be heard.
And to undermine President Obama, and to make the bold claim that he s not really black because he was raised white is not only presumptuous and disrespectful, but outright wrong.Listen to the whole podcast here:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/248401712 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]Featured image: Flickr