Donald Trump likely caused a diplomatic crisis with China when he decided he would talk to the president of Taiwan on Friday.
The move left political observers scratching their heads and wondering how he could have possibly thought this was a good idea.
The answer is simple.
It s the same reason Trump does everything he thinks he can get something out of it.
In this case, another luxury resort.In 1979, the United States severed all diplomatic ties with Taiwan and adopted a One China stance.
Since that time, no president (or president-elect) has spoken with the country s president.
As far as China is concerned, Taiwan is part of China.
Trump s phone call with Tsai Ying-wen, the president of Taiwan, is likely to infuriate Beijing which regards the island as a renegade province.
So why on earth would Trump do something like this?
Go figure, the Trump Organization just happens to be looking at Taiwan as a location for their next luxury resort.The Shangiist, a publication that covers news in China, reported the following in November:The mayor of Taoyuan confirmed rumors on Wednesday that US president-elect Donald Trump was considering constructing a series of luxury hotels and resorts in the northwest Taiwanese city.A representative from the Trump Organization paid a visit to Taoyuan in September, expressing interest in the city s Aerotropolis, a large-scale urban development project aimed at capitalizing on Taoyuan s status as a transport hub for East Asia, Taiwan News reports.
With the review process for the Aerotropolis still underway, Taoyuan s mayor referred to the subject of the meeting as mere investment speculation.
Other reports indicate that Eric Trump, the president-elect s second son and executive vice president of the Trump Organization, will be coming to Taoyuan later this year to discuss the potential business opportunity.The dire consequences that could come from this simple phone conversation cannot be understated.
The only thing less surprising than Trump s stupidity is his willingness to sacrifice the United States for his own selfish gains.
His businesses and foreign financial ties have come under scrutiny for the conflicts of interest they create now that Trump is going to be president.
He hasn t even been sworn in yet and already he is saying to hell with America for the sake of his own bank account.
This is exactly why this man should not be the leader of the free world.Featured image via Ty Wright/Getty Images