Donald Trump s new campaign manager is just a few days into her role, but already Kellyanne Conway is having difficulty defending her presidential candidate and is basically showing us that she is just as much of a flip-flopper as Trump.Trump s refusal to release his tax returns has become a massive talking point against him at this point of the election, with people from both parties asking him to be transparent.
On Sunday night, Conway went on CNN to tell Americans that Trump would be releasing his tax returns after they were done being audited.
But just seconds later, Conway seemed to contradict that statement and say that the campaign had no plans to release tax returns that were not being audited.CNN host Dana Bash had cornered Conway at the beginning of the interview, calling her out by stating that before she became Trump s campaign manager, she had been an advocate for releasing the tax returns.
According to Conway, however, this all changed when she accepted her new role.
Conway said: So, now that I am on the inside, I know something I didn t know then, which is, he is under audit and what that means.
And he has said very clearly and I back him up completely that when the audit is completed, he will release the tax returns.
Bash reminded Conway that not all of Trump s tax returns were being audited by the IRS some were finished.
Bash asked, You mentioned the audit.
According to his lawyers, the years 2002 to 2008 are no longer under audit.
So, would you release those tax returns?
Conway backtracked and said, No, I would not, and then rushed to change topics and blame Obama for something just like her boss.
She said: And this entire tax return debate is somewhat confounding to me, in the following sense.
I don t think that it creates one job, gets one more individual who does not have health insurance covered by health insurance, particularly under the disaster that has been Obamacare with these private insurers pulling out our exchanges now and reporting billions of dollars of losses.
What I think happened I think people are most concerned about is, how would a President Trump or how would a President Hillary affect their tax bill?
Everyday life is becoming increasingly unaffordable for Americans, and they deserve the kind of relief that he laid very strongly out in his speech.
Ironically, Conway then talked about transparency: If we want transparency, if we want specifics, the most relevant thing that people can look at is, what is his plan for their tax bill to make everyday affordability, job security and rebuilding the American economy.
You can watch Conway crash and burn below, following in her boss footsteps:Featured image is a screenshot