Donald Trump stooge Kellyanne Conway attempted to defend the unconstitutional Muslim ban on Sunday and failed miserably.On Friday, Trump signed an executive order banning immigrants from Yemen, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, and Libya from entering the United States.The order instantly caused mass chaos as businesses rushed to call back employees from overseas and airports became detention centers.
Even people with green cards, which makes them American citizens, are being barred from entering the country.During an interview with Fox News host Chris Wallace, Conway ignored the worldwide chaos and actually had the gall to call it a good thing that somehow makes America safer.
You re talking about 325,000 people from overseas came into this country just yesterday through our airports, Conway said when Wallace asked if Trump made a mistake by not thinking about the consequences of the order.
You re talking about three hundred and some who have been detained or are prevented from gaining access to an aircraft in their home countries and must stay for now.
That s 1 percent.
And I think in terms of the upside being greater protection of our borders, of our people, it s a small price to pay.
Here s the video via YouTube:Except that Trump s Muslim ban does not make America safer at all.
In fact, it makes us less safe because extremists will use the ban as proof that America hates Muslims, which will be the perfect recruitment tool for terrorist organizations.For instance, this is how Iran responded to the order.
While respecting the American people and distinguishing between them and the hostile policies of the U.S. government, Iran will implement the principle of reciprocity until the offensive U.S. limitations against Iranian nationals are lifted.
The restrictions against travel by Muslims to America are an open affront against the Muslim world and the Iranian nation in particular and will be known as a great gift to extremists.
So we can expect terrorist organizations like ISIS to use Trump s ban as a recruiting tool to persuade more people to align with them and commit acts of terrorism against the United States and nothing Trump does will stop them because his administration is far too incompetent to do so.The ban also would not have prevented any of the mass shootings conservatives point to as justification for the ban such as shootings in Ft.
Hood, Orlando, and San Bernardino, because all of the shooters were natural born United States citizens.And Trump s ban did not include nations that are actually responsible for killing American citizens, such as Saudi Arabia, where the 9/11 hijackers were from and received funding.This Muslim ban is totally unconstitutional and targets people because of their religion.
It goes against our values as a nation and every American should be horrified by what Trump has done.
Our reputation around the world has just been sullied and we are going to pay a price in blood for it.Featured image via screenshot