CNN political commentator Van Jones on Wednesday visited ABC s The View, where he criticized fellow liberals for being mad at every single person who voted for President Donald Trump.
Jones tells the women that the Democrats need to make their tent bigger to include folks in Appalachia Really?
He goes on to say that they ve been embracing Muslims and other minorities but need to include the miner with black lung Huh???
Basically, he s saying the Democrats are willing to toss their remaining policies to wh*re themselves out for votes any votes they can get from any warm body they can drag to the polls.
Is anyone else out there as offended by this as we are?Jones first argued that, while the tent of the Democratic Party is diverse, it is not as inclusive as it could be.
Right now I don t see Democrats looking at the situation and saying, you know what, maybe we drew our circle too small, Jones said.
I love that we re hugging LGBT and Muslims and all the people who usually don t get a hug.
We re hugging them, but maybe we need a bigger hug, and include some of those folks in Appalachia.
That s exactly what the DNC chair said, co-host Sunny Hostin insisted.
We had Tom Perez on the show, and that s exactly what he said.
They are trying to do that, co-host Joy Behar affirmed.
Listen, there may be some leaders who are.
Unfortunately, and I have to be honest I get in trouble because I m honest, Jones said.
I know you do, Hostin interjected.
When I listen to liberals, when they re not on TV trying to make it sound good, we re still in grief; we re still mad, Jones said.
And we re not just mad at Trump, who we should be mad at.
We re mad at every single person who voted for Trump, even people who have no jobs, even coal miners who have black lung disease and who are dying and Democrats don t have anything to say about it for years.
Behar and co-host Whoopi Goldberg interrupted Jones to take issue with the idea that liberals are mad at Trump voters, asking Jones specifically who he was talking about.
Jones explained his point of view comes from conversations with liberals.
In my conversations with liberals, it s like they, those Trump voters, them.
I don t understand how those people could ever do that.
In America, we don t have to agree.
We have to try to understand, he said.Via: WFB