The prospect of Donald Trump winning the presidency is scaring the hell out of the world s markets, and conservatives are to blame.The economy is facing a free-fall that will make Brexit look like a yawn if Donald Trump pulls out a win.
As the electoral votes came in for Trump on Tuesday night, Dow Jones futures dropped an astonishing 750 points while the value of the dollar dropped just over one percent.According to Market Watch,Futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged nearly 750 points before modestly paring losses as Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump s lead in the Electoral College over Democratic rival Hillary Clinton widened.Dow futures YMZ6, -3.63% were off 700 points, or 3.9%, at 17,574.
The U.S. dollar USDJPY, -3.23% slumped 3.2% to 101.64.
The ICE U.S. Dollar index, a measure of the dollar s strength against a basket of six rivals, was off 1.2% at 96.68.And the damage was not isolated to the United States as Asian and Australian markets also fell and the Mexican peso dropped in value to a new record low as well.In Asia, stocks opened sharply lower, with Hong Kong s Hang Seng index HSI, -2.82% down 607 points, or 2.7%, at 22,299.
The Nikkei 225 NIK, -4.79% slid 783 points, or 4.5%, at 16,387.
Australia s all-ordinaries index XAO, -2.26% was off 143 points, or 2.7%, at 5,198.Meanwhile, the Mexican peso USDMXN, +12.0999% plunged more than 11% to a new record low at 20.30 pesos to the dollar.Unrelated but still worth noting, the Canadian immigration website has crashed, presumably because people are scared to death at the prospect of a Trump presidency.Republican voters literally put America s economy at serious risk by voting for Donald Trump.
If the world economy takes a major hit and consequently hurts this country and erases all of the progress we have made since the Great Recession eight years ago, Republicans will OWN this.
It will be their fault and they will be the only ones to blame.This election is a seriously embarrassing moment in our history and our reputation around the world just went from one of respect to a total joke.These conservative voters in rural areas just got duped into thinking that this billionaire blowhard actually cares about them, their families, their jobs, and their financial future.
But they are about to be severely disappointed because Trump only cares about himself.
He does not care about making sure people get a fair wage.
He does not care about all those blue-collar workers who somehow think Trump will bring back manufacturing jobs.
This is a guy who imports materials from China because he d rather buy cheap instead of buying from American companies.So if you are a conservative and you lose your job, home, and savings.
Look in the mirror and blame yourself.
You caused your own misery and you deserve every bit of it.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images