Since disgusting revelations came to light that show the Republicans horse crap-covered, diseased nutsack of a nominee is actually a sexual predator, Trump has been frantically trying to cover his ass in every way imaginable.
There is no line he will not cross, no level to which he will not sink, in order to turn the whole thing around in a pathetic attempt to come out smelling like roses.
That includes pushing ever-wilder conspiracy theories about how the nefarious Hillary Clinton is behind all of this.Yes, Trump wants people to believe that this is all a worldwide smear campaign specifically intended to derail his candidacy.
His asinine cease-and-desist letter to The New York Times revealed that (along with the true intent of the lawsuit threat), and so do the growing, nutty conspiracy theories he was touting in West Palm Beach today: The most powerful weapon deployed by the Clintons is the corporate media: the press.
Let s be clear on one thing, the corporate media in our country is no longer involved in journalism.
They re a political special interest, no different than any lobbyist or any other financial entity with a total political agenda and the agenda is not for you, it s for themselves.Their agenda is to elect crooked Hillary Clinton at any costs, at any price, no matter how many lives they destroy.
For them, it s a war.
And for them, nothing at all is out of bounds.
This is a struggle for the survival of our nation.
Believe me.
And this will be our last chance to save it.
Oh, it s a war all right, but it s a war against the evil that pervades Trump and his loyal, minion-y followers.
Nobody s destroyed Trump s life but Trump himself.
When it comes to the women he s assaulted he s out to destroy their lives, and the lives of members of the press, for daring to report the truth about him.
He is so not a victim.Trump s followers are dead certain that this election will be stolen from them, and Trump is playing that like a master violinist.
For Trump, it s simple: The election is stolen if he loses.
The election is fair if he wins.
End of story.His minionish cult of followers see it the exact same way.But wait!
It gets better.
He also drew connections between his assault victims coming forward, Wikileaks, and Hillary: These claims are all fabricated, they are pure fiction, and they are outright lies It s not coincidence that these attacks come at the exact same moment and all together at the same time as Wikileaks releases documents exposing the massive international corruption of the Clinton machine.
Coincidence or not, nothing changes the fact that he s a sexual predator who has no business being anywhere near a position of such power and responsibility as the presidency.As he continued to speak, his descent into madness became clearer: We ve seen this [corruption] first hand in the Wikileaks documents in which Hillary Clinton meets in secret with international banks to plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty in order to enrich these global financial powers, her special interest friends, and her donors.
The funny thing is that those emails reveal nothing of the sort.
Time pointed out that a lot of things he said there are invented.
As The Atlantic put it, they show a political candidate being political.
Is that good?
Not necessarily.
However, they don t reveal anything nearly as horrific as what s come out about Trump recently.It s time for the cowardly GOP to actually come forward as a unified party and do something about this man.
He s beyond help at this point.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images