During the New Rules segment of Real Time with Bill Maher, Maher gave a hilarious analysis of Republican s hypocrisy, how they flip-flop only when it happens to them, and what that means for the planet.Maher tosses off a litany of examples of individual Republicans who have completely changed their minds about issues as soon as those issues found their ways into their lives.
Maher says: It explains why John McCain supports every form of war ever invented and some he just fantasizes about in the shower but torture?
No, because he was tortured by Sarah Palin.
It explains why Ronald Reagan suddenly cared about AIDS only after it struck his friend Rock Hudson.
And why Nancy Reagan got religion on stem cell research after Ronnie got Alzheimer s. And it explains why Newt Gingrich gave up hunting after he married an owl.
That s good news for people on the right side of history already.
Most Republican politicians eventually catch up with the rest of class on most issues.
It may take a long time and a lot of work but public opinion shifts and they must shift along with it.The problem is if having a personal stake in the matter is the spark that helps create that shift, issues that are more recondite in nature can be almost impossible for them to change their minds on.
Issues like climate change just won t become a major issue for most Republicans.Maher makes fun of this, hoping that the gods of irony hit Republicans with problems caused by environmental destruction.
Let Rush Limbaugh be attacked by a swarm of dying bees and the Koch brothers be swallowed up by a fracking-induced earthquake.
And to slap the global warming denial out of Marco Rubio whose own state of Florida is one of the most likely places to be inundated by rising oceans his own home must get flooded and Marco must be swept out to sea and washed up all the way back to Cuba, where we will find out that Marco Rubio is really Elian Gonzalez.
You can watch the clip below:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kjn5kfDkSDAFeatured image from video screenshot