Well, here we go again.
Donald Trump saying something weird, stupid or offensive has become as common as the sun rising.
Despite that, he just keeps managing to take things up one more notch on the ladder of inflammatory nonsense.Today s new normal in stupidity comes with Trump s declaration that he would be open to arranging the assassination of world leaders that he doesn t like.
This was revealed when he said that he would make China assassinate Kim Jong Un, the leader of North Korea.Trump elaborated a bit on his plan for forcing another country to assassinate people.
However, he failed to explain exactly how he could force another sovereign nation to actually do something so asinine: I would get China to make that guy [Kim Jong Un] disappear in one form or another very quickly.
China has control, absolute control of North Korea.
They don t say it, but they do, and they should make that problem disappear China is sucking us dry.
They re taking our money, they re taking our jobs and doing so much.
We have rebuilt China with what they ve taken out.
We have power over China.
China should do that.
Source: InquisitrWe all know it isn t a big shock when Republicans, Trump in particular, simply don t know what the hell they are talking about.
However, on this one, Trump really does take the cake.
State-arranged assassination is illegal in the U.S. and has been for decades.
Gerald Ford banned it via executive order in 1976, and Jimmy Carter strengthened the ban again in 1978.
Executive Order 12036 lays it out plain as day.2-305.
Prohibition on Assassination.
No person employed by or acting on behalf of the United States Government shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, assassination.Source: fas.orgThis follows promises by Trump to not only bring back waterboarding but to also include new and unspecified methods of torture that he calls a hell of a lot worse.
Do you know who else assassinates people and tortures enemies of the state?
North Korea.
Will Trump get so bad that he advocates for the assassination of himself?
It would be ironic.Featured image from alan.com