On Monday night, Kenneth Walker received a letter in his mailbox.
The letter, which appears to be written by someone who would be likely to support Donald Trump, warned Walker that he was not wanted in the small New York town of North Tonawanda especially not in his current position.Walker is the town s sole African-American firefighter the guy on whom residents can count to save them if something terrible happens.
But to the person who wrote the letter, he s just a n*gger.
via CNNThe letter oh-so-politely informs him that n*ggers like himself are not welcome to be firefighters, and that no one wants him in the city.
Walker is warned that he has until the end of the week to resign his position.
The racist threat is punctuated by an ominous or you will regret it .. n*gger.
Apparently, the author was unwilling to actually wait until the end of the week.
A fire broke out at Walker s home while he and his family were away.
Almost everything inside was destroyed, including the family s two beloved pet cats.
I have children that live here, Walker told CNN affiliate WKBW.
You can have a problem with me, you can have a problem with anything I may say or do.
But there s no reason to involve my home.
I told everybody it s appalling to think about what s taking place, North Tonawanda Fire Chief Joseph Sikora told CNN.
Our city has never had an issue like this.
Not in 26 years.
Quite frankly it sickens me.
If nothing else, this hateful act has proved the letter writer wrong about exactly how wanted Walker actually is by the townsfolk.
The community banded together to provide food, money and clothes to the Walker family, but they still have nowhere to live: Unfortunately we couldn t take anything because there s nowhere to put it.
As for a resignation, it does not appear that will be happening.
A sign outside the Gratwick Hose Fire Company reads, We support Ken Walker.
He s there on Sundays.
He s there on holidays taking time away from his family and sleep to answer calls, Bob Brennan of the fire company told WKBW.
I wish I had 20 more members like Ken Walker.
Walker says he refuses to be intimidated, and that he is not at this point going to resign.
He may consider a transfer to another company, however, if he determines his family is not safe.The FBI is investigating the attack.Watch a report on the fire below:Featured image via screengrab