Donald Trump accused the media of covering up terrorist attacks and promptly got his ass handed to him by Anderson Cooper on CNN.On Monday during remarks to U.S. Central Command, Trump claimed that terrorist attacks are happening all over Europe all the time but the media is allegedly not reporting on them just to keep Americans in the dark.
All over Europe it s happening, Trump said.
It s gotten to a point where it s not even being reported.
And in many cases, the very, very dishonest press doesn t want to report it.
They have their reasons and you understand that.
However, when Trump released a list of terrorist attacks that the media has supposedly ignored, news agencies everywhere laughed.The list of 78 attacks includes those that occurred in San Bernardino, Paris, Orlando, and Nice, just to name a few.
The problem is that the media covered these attacks thoroughly on a daily basis for quite some time.
And there is video tape to prove it.During his show on Monday night, Cooper played a montage of himself covering many of these attacks and he blasted Trump for lying.
Not only did we cover many of the attacks on that list, we covered them heavily.
I know, because I was on the ground reporting a number of them.
CNN was on the ground in Ottawa, Canada, when a gunman killed someone at the tomb of the unknown soldier.
I was in Orlando, I flew there right after the news broke.
December 2015, that was on the list, San Bernardino.
I was there, 14 people killed and 21 wounded in coordinated attacks.
This was just a month after I reported on the carnage in Paris, where terrorists killed 130 people and wounded many others.
To be sure, this program did not cover each and every incident on the list, however other programs, as well as CNN International, covered most if not all of them, most of them exhaustively.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump has told lie after lie after lie since taking over the White House and his attacks against the media are childish.
There is literally thousands of hours of video of news reporters and anchors covering all of the attacks Trump put on the list.
At this point, the media really should take action against Trump.
His attacks constitute slander and the media definitely has a strong case.Trump is trying to hype up terrorist attacks in order to scare Americans into supporting his unconstitutional Muslim ban.
And he is trying to make it sound like the media is helping the terrorists.
If anyone is helping terrorists it s Donald Trump.
His Muslim ban is literally being used as propaganda by terrorist organizations as a recruiting tool.
He should be ashamed of himself, and if and when a terrorist attack does occur against this country, Trump will be to blame.Featured Image: Screenshot