The disgraced Representative John Conyers (D-MI) was not about to quit his job as an elected official before he hand-selected his son as his successor.
Never mind that his son has absolutely no experience in politics.
His last name is Conyers , and that s apparently enough for the 88-year old politician.
But is that really all they need to know about the 27-year old son of the disgraced lawmaker and the former Detroit councilwoman, Monica Conyers, who was recently released from prison after serving 2 years of a 3-year term for bribery?
And should anyone be surprised by anything that comes out of the mouth of the 88-year old lawmaker, who, in 2010, was caught on video, as he brazenly read a Playboy magazine on a domestic flight in plain view of other passengers, and who has recently been accused by multiple women of either sexually assaulting or attempting to sexually assault them.
John Conyers III also has an interesting background.According to NBC News, on February Feb. 15, John Conyers was arrested on suspicion of domestic abuse but wasn t charged, after his girlfriend called the police.
The unidentified woman said the younger Conyers accused her of cheating on him, then body slammed her on the bed and then on the floor where he pinned her down and spit on her, according to a district attorney s report quoted by NBC News.
The woman claimed that Conyers III took her phone when she tried to call the police, he chased her into the kitchen and swung a knife at her, resulting in a cut on her arm.Conyers III asserted that the woman had been drinking and using marijuana and tried to throw him out of her home before they began pushing and shoving one another.
He said she threatened him with a knife and cut herself as they struggled.NBC reported that the Los Angeles County District Attorney s Office chose not to move forward with the case, citing a lack of independent witnesses and investigators conclusions that it could not be proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the victim s injury was not accidentally sustained.
FOX NewsConyers III also likes to think of himself as a rapper .
He recently made this video where interestingly, he refers to his father as a f*cking player : Conyers III also caused public headaches for his father in 2010.Chicago Tribune In 2010, MLive.com reported that John Conyers III was cited for speeding in his father s Cadillac Escalade or rather, the government-leased vehicle his father used as a member of Congress.There were also reports that year that the younger Conyers had driven the vehicle to a rap concert and that it was broken into, according to MLive.com.
The then-20-year-old reported to police that two laptops had been stolen from the Cadillac, along with tens of thousands of dollars worth of concert tickets.After the incident, the elder Conyers apologized.