This cop killer was a hateful, racist sub-human.
He not only hated white people and cops, he bragged about it.
The scary thing is, much like ISIS, who has no trouble recruiting people with hate in their hearts, there are no shortage of people to carry out Obama s war on cops in America.
These are terrorists and our very own President has inspired these people to act on their hate for Whites, for cops and for America.
This, is Obama s real legacy The 29 year old ex-marine, Gavin Eugene Long, who ambushed and killed three unsuspecting Baton Rouge police officers on Sunday morning, hated those who did not share his skin-tone and harbored a particular hatred for the police.
As revealed in the hours after the shootings, a Youtube account operated by Long under the handle I Am Cosmo where the alleged killer posted dozens of clips, provides insight into what motivated the young man to kill three police officers and wound three more on his 29th birthday.In the Youtube videos, Long rants against crackers, and makes multiple references to the July 5th killing of Alton Sterling at the hands of police officers only five miles away from Sunday s attack.
The videos also detail that Long is a member of the Nation of Islam, labelled a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center for its black supremacist and racist views towards Jews, Asians, and whites which the group s leaders argue have sucked the blood from and exploited the black community.As Daily Caller details, the 29-year-old was a native of Kansas City, Missouri and was honorably discharged from the Marines in 2010 after reaching the rank of E-5.
He preferred to go by the name Cosmo Ausar Setepenra rather than Gavin Eugene Long.In a video published on Thursday, the racist shooter says that If I would have been there with Alton Clap before promoting a book that he wrote that discusses black liberation ideology.
I wrote it for my dark-skinned brothers, said Long.
If you look at all the rebels like Black Panthers, Huey P. Newton, Malcolm X, and Elijah Muhammad, they was light-skinned.
But we know how hard y all got it.
https://youtu.be/kGuUq6eUoFwThe assailant also suggested that the black community should buy only from black-owned businesses rather than working for the white people.
In one video Long is heard lamented working for the white people.
He encouraged one man riding in his vehicle as he filmed using a body camera to shop only at black-owned businesses.
He brought up a hypothetical scenario in which a family member who wanted to buy carpet was forced to buy from non-black business owners saying Who s she going to f with?
The cracker, the Arab, the Chinese?
These Arabs, these Indians, they don t give two fucks about us, said the shooter.Come to think of it, he may have a point.
Via: Zero HedgeThis loser has his own Youtube channel.
If you care to stomach has cancer-like rhetoric, you can find his channel HERE.