Petulant child Donald Trump released a statement on Sunday morning demanding that Congress investigate President Obama.On Saturday, Trump took to Twitter and openly accused President Obama of wiretapping Trump Tower without providing a shred of evidence to back up his claim.Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Is it legal for a sitting President to be wire tapping a race for president prior to an election?
Turned down by court earlier.
A NEW LOW!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017I d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process.
This is Nixon/Watergate.
Bad (or sick) guy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Of course, Trump is just trying to distract everyone from focusing on his Russia scandal by making an outrageous accusation to shift the story.But now Trump is going even further by demanding an investigation and even declared that he won t comment on Russia anymore until he gets what he wants.You know, like a toddler who holds their breath until they get the candy bar they want at the store.
Reports concerning potentially politically motivated investigations immediately ahead of the 2016 election are very troubling, Trump said in a statement issued by the White House.
President Donald J. Trump is requesting that as part of their investigation into Russian activity, the congressional intelligence committees exercise their oversight authority to determine whether executive branch investigative powers were abused in 2016.
Neither the White House nor the President will comment further until such oversight is conducted.
If Republicans actually start a witch hunt against President Obama instead of investigating Trump s obvious ties to Russia it will be clear that they are incapable of doing their jobs.Trump literally repeated what he read on Breitbart and now he is desperately hoping that Congress and the media will focus on President Obama instead of the ever-growing Russia scandal he and his administration are embroiled in.The American people should be outraged.Featured Image: Wonkette