Jon Stewart completely annihilated Sean Hannity on national television, and the Fox News host threw a hissy fit over it.On Thursday night, Stewart made a surprise appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and briefly took over the desk to deliver a stinging take down of Sean Hannity.Hannity has often derided President Obama for using a teleprompter and has accused him of being divisive and thin-skinned, but hypocritically praises Donald Trump despite the fact that the Republican nominee does and is all the things Hannity claims to hate about President Obama.And Stewart masterfully ripped him a new one for it.
Either Lumpy (Hannity) and his friends are lying about being bothered by thin-skinned authoritarian less-than-Christian readers of prompter being president, or they don t care, as long as it s their thin-skinned prompter authoritarian tyrant narcissist.
You just want that person to give you your country back because you feel that you re this country s rightful owners.
The only problem with that, this country isn t yours!
You don t own it!
It never was!
There is no real America!
You don t own it!
You don t own patriotism, you don t own Christianity, you sure as hell don t own respect for the brave and sacrifice of military, police and firefighters!
Trust me!
I see you and I see your bulls t. Here s the epic video via YouTube.On Friday, Hannity responded by throwing a temper tantrum that only a petulant child could love.
I see they brought that idiot Jon Stewart back from the dead.
Great, attack me all you want.
I was right about Obama and you re a fool who head his head had your head so far up Obama s ass, Jon Stewart.
I ve never seen anybody kiss an ass like you kiss his.
I know you re a rich liberal.
Are you donating money to those families, the 46 million American families on food stamps, Jon?
Hey, Jon, are you helping out the 50 million Americans in poverty?
Hey, Jon, are you going to help use your wealth from all your comedy writers that lay out the material for you, are you going to help pay down the debt that Obama s accumulated?More debt than every other president before him combined?
Are you going to help, Jon, the 1 in 5 American families in the country that don t have a single family member that have a job?
I know you re rich enough, you don t have to work anymore.
Here s the audio via YouTube.This is how you know that Jon Stewart kicked Hannity s ass.
Hannity goes on his radio show and throws a hissy fit complete with expletives and every insult he can think of while ignoring the fact that Stewart used video tape to prove how much of a hypocrite Hannity is.Featured image via screenshot