Republican presidential candidate and Texas Senator Ted Cruz believes with every ounce of his being that Donald Trump in the White House is a grave mistake but he confessed that he would endorse the disgraceful GOP candidate anyway.Cruz revealed this on Sunday during CNN s State of the Union.
Host Jack Tapper asked Cruz about the recent attacks against Trump by other conservatives, especially presidential candidate Marco Rubio (R-FL).
Not to be outdone, Cruz also had some choice words for Trump, blasting the front runner for standing behind Planned Parenthood, his plan to stay neutral between Israel and the Palestinians, and longtime support of expanding Obamacare into Bernie Sanders-style socialized medicine, putting the government in charge of your health care, putting government bureaucrats into a position to ration your care, especially that of seniors.
Cruz, absolutely terrified of what President Trump could mean for America, warned: If Donald becomes president, who the heck knows what he would do?
Even Donald doesn t know what he would do.
I think the challenges facing the nation, they re too grave to roll the dice.
Cruz made it perfectly clear during this interview that he felt a Trump presidency would be the worst case scenario for America, but Tapper pressed him to see if he would still back his rival if Trump took the nomination.
Cruz s answer is puzzling after all the negative things he just said about Trump, Cruz still felt that: I will support the Republican nominee.
Period.
The end.
This response by Cruz is absolutely infuriating and goes beyond stupidity.
Cruz recognizes that Trump is dishonest, terribly offensive, unqualified and without question the wrong person to lead the country and will STILL advocate for him just because he s a Republican.
Cruz should be wise enough to know that even though he doesn t want a Democrat president in the White House, America would be in far more capable hands and so much safer.You can watch the interview below:In another part of this interview, Tapper also asked the same question of candidate John Kasich (R-OH).
Kasich echoed Cruz s opinion and said: At the end of the day, I m going to support that person who came through the arena and became the nominee.
As insane as these responses from Cruz and Kasich are, they re not entirely to blame the Republican National Committee is basically forcing them to back Trump if he wins the nomination, as every GOP candidate took a solemn oath to support whichever candidate wins the Republican party s nomination.It s so unfortunate that the GOP is so bitter about left-leaning politics that they would rather support a candidate that is going to destroy America than explore alternative possibilities with a more capable Democratic candidate.
They cannot see far enough past their narrow-minded views and hateful rhetoric to see that the future of America will be greatly jeopardized with Trump, and they d rather watch it crash and burn than trust someone outside the GOP.
Featured image via Flickr