This ad is disgusting in so many ways.
The video shows a group of kids bullying and name calling another kid because his dad didn t vote.
We ve seen these tactics used before with union members and other leftists in the Democrat Party.
But at a time when schools and parents are being asked to be more vigilant about bullying, what makes this group who supports Hillary, and spends money to ensure Trump doesn t win the election think this is okay?
America is starting to discover through a series of Hillary s campaign manager s emails, and undercover videos exposing the corrupt nature of Hillary s campaign, those who support her through various radical groups and organizations and of course, the Democratic Party.This video, from non-profit Civic Innovation Works, also has a Super PAC with the same name that supports Hillary to children everywhere sends a clear message: If you know of a kid who s parents aren t planning to vote, it might be a good time to start bullying them Watch:This ad was funded by a Civic Innovation Works whose officer is the same person who is named as the treasurer on the radical Civic Innovation Super PAC.
Sounds pretty harmless right?
Well actually, they re a group who funds ads for Hillary and ads against Trump.
One of their top contributors is co-founder of Facebook, Dustin Moskovitz.The billionaire who made a fortune off of Facebook, a social media platform that was created for users of all races, ages and political backgrounds has committed to spending $20 million to defeat Trump in the upcoming election.
You ll never hear about him and his desire to affect the outcome of the election by funding a campaign against Donald J. Trump.Daniel Hausman is the treasurer of the leftist group, Civic Innovation USA.
Here are screen shots of a few of their recent expenditures.
The organization that promotes bullying of kids by other kids supports Hillary:They also spent money to defeat Trump:How much more evidence do American voters need to see the Democratic Party is not their grandparents, or even their parents party?