On Sunday, Iran executed a nuclear scientist for giving vital information to the enemy.
Shahram Amiri disappeared in 2009 during a trip to Mecca in Saudi Arabia.
For a year he was missing, but then resurfaced in the United States in June of 2010.
Amiri says that he had been kidnapped by the CIA and put under intense psychological pressure to reveal sensitive information.
He claims that he rejected the United States efforts to break him, but the U.S. Government said at the time that Amiri had defected voluntarily, and had been paid millions of dollars for useful information related to the country s nuclear program.The next month, he appeared in Washington DC at the Iranian interests section of Pakistan s embassy, seeking to return to Iran.Days later, he obtained passage home, where he originally received a hero s welcome.
But in May of 2011, he was arrested and tried for treason.
Though his family believed he had been given ten years in prison, which would have made him eligible for release in 2022, he was actually sentenced to death.
Finally, his execution was carried out on August 7, 2016.
Amiri had access to confidential military secrets and was connected to our No.
1 enemy, the Great Satan, Islamic Republic of Iran spokesman Gholamhosein Mohseni-Ejei said in his weekly news conference.
He was sentenced to death in primary court, and the sentence was confirmed by Supreme Court after Amiri appealed the decision.
The CIA thought that its movements were kept away from the eye of Iranian Intelligence Ministry, Mohseni-Ejei said.
They took Amiri to Saudi Arabia.
To most, this seems fairly standard.
He released video informing his country that he betrayed their national secrets to the CIA, the United States confirmed that he had done so, and for some reason he thought it was safe to return home.
This is documented history unless, of course, you re Tom Cotton.You see, Amiri was mentioned in recently-released Clinton emails.
According to Cotton, the messages, which did not become public until very recently, were the cause of Amiri s 2011 arrest and death sentence.
We have a diplomatic, psychological issue, not a legal one.
Our friend has to be given a way out, Richard Morningstar, a former State Department special envoy for Eurasian energy, wrote nine days before he returned to Iran.
Our person won t be able to do anything anyway.
If he has to leave so be it.
On Face the Nation, Cotton tossed a thick layer of blame on Clinton: I m not going to comment on what he may or may not have done for the United States government, but in the emails that were on Hillary Clinton s private server, there were conversations among her senior advisors about this gentleman.
That goes to show just how reckless and careless her decision was to put that kind of highly classified information on a private server.
And I think her judgment is not suited to keep this country safe, Cotton added, apparently forgetting that all of this happened years before her emails were released.In fact, the timing doesn t seem to matter to anyone on the right wing.
Gateway Pundit s Jim Hoft, more commonly known as the stupidest man on the internet (seriously, Google it), declared that Clinton s unprotected emails got [an] Iranian nuclear scientist executed.
They found out he was working for the US thanks to Hillary Clinton s emails, Hoft writes.
Nice work, Hillary.
He even includes this cute little tweet: Unfortunately for all of them, a quick Google search quickly disproves their latest stupid, stupid theory related to Hillary s emails.F*ck off, Tom and Jim.Watch Cotton try to blame Hillary below:Featured image via screengrab