In what could be the most damning information revealed yet, and what seems to be a remarkable oversight by most of the media, the Wall Street Journal published an article in May 2016 revealing that Donald Trump himself met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Ivanovich Kislyak.While everyone has been focused on trying to figure out which members of Trump s campaign had met with Russian representatives, it s printed that Trump met with him, and met with him during his presidential campaign.
This is a very, very huge deal considering Trump has time and time again said that he hadn t been talking to Russia.According to the Wall Street Journal in an article titled Donald Trump Goes His Own Way With Vladimir Putin it shows Trump saying this: I believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of strength only is possible, absolutely possible, Mr. Trump said in a foreign-policy speech at Washington s Mayflower Hotel in April.
Some say the Russians won t be reasonable.
I intend to find out.
WSJ then reports: A few minutes before he made those remarks, Mr. Trump met at a VIP reception with Russia s ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Ivanovich Kislyak.
Mr. Trump warmly greeted Mr. Kislyak and three other foreign ambassadors who came to the reception.
Yes, that s the same Sergey Ivanovich Kislyak who met with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, went to the Republican National Convention, and was in attendance at Trump s Joint Address to Congress.Kislyak seems to be a major player in Trump s long game seeing as he is in regular attendance pretty much everywhere.
This fact is rather alarming considering Kislyak is considered Moscow s Top Spy Recruiter in the United States.
Don t expect the Trump/Russia story to go away anytime soon.
If anything, it is just heating up and deserves more scrutiny than any other story around.
If Trump is connected directly to Russia, and Russia did, in fact, help Trump win the election, that s not only a direct threat to national security and our democratic process but it is a global threat as well.The Russia connections will continue to present themselves and Trump will be seen as the fraud and colluding traitor that he may very well be.Featured Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images