In case you haven t heard, there s a theory going around that Bristol Palin s baby was actually born in November.
but the family held out on the announcement until Christmas Eve.
With a pile of circumstantial evidence that leads to the conclusion that Bristol was impregnated during a Vegas romp with a known Alaskan adult industry worker on or around Valentine s Day 2015, The blog Right Wing Crooks broke a very compelling story.Bristol, good Christian spokesperson that she is, responded to her critics in a less than Christly way.
Using her Instagram screen name, bsmp2, she first offered a denial, worded strongly enough that people would take notice:OK, well that solves that then, right?
Wrong.
If there is no truth to the story the Palins could avoid the internet shitstorm headed their way and comply with one request:Well now we sound like Donald Trump and the birthers of 2008, don t we?
Not really, since nobody really cares when Bristol Palin had her baby or who the father is.
Things like this are the left s form of divine justice.
Every so often karma swings at people like the Palins who preach how much better they are because they love God and America, building fake reputations off of some purity that doesn t exist.Where Bristol is concerned, it s almost too much to handle.
While pregnant with her second child out of wedlock she was defending her position as an abstinence counselor.
To find out she got knocked up during a one night stand in Vegas wouldn t change any elections, it wouldn t alter the course of human history, and the Palins would still manage to somehow stay relevant because people love stupidity.
It would, however, be absolutely hilarious, especially if the whole thing comes tumbling down over a piece of tape.Bristol has already had enough, not bothering to indulge the question or deny it further.
She simply abandons her own decency with this:Whoa.
Pretty strong.
Is Bristol sending a message that she won t engage in questions about it all, or is this all a part of the ruse?
Making it seem ludicrous and blowing it off would be much easier than releasing a birth certificate or time-stamped images.Since the story was released Bristol has had little to say.
She has been posting, however.
Is this maybe another message to people who would question the abstinence princess and her 2 illegitimate children?
Let s hope not:Guns, guns and more guns!
It seems like someone may be using all of the grains of powder at her disposal to deal with some anger issues.This is the legacy of Bristol Palin.
Teenage girl who should have just hidden behind her couch during her idiotic mother s run for the Vice Presidency turned 25-year-old woman whose only accomplishment is a high placement on Dancing With The Stars that she didn t deserve.Nobody really cares, Bristol.
If you had your baby to cover up slutty behavior just admit it.
If not, then well good for you.Featured image via screen capture