We have roughly 92 billion opinion polls going around regarding the presidential election, and right now, they all show Trump and Hillary either locked in a dead heat, or Hillary leading, across the nation and in key states.
Of course, this means the polls are rigged, or at least biased, right?
Right.
So Breitbart, being of sound editorial judgment, commissioned Gravis to conduct their own poll.
The results?Hillary leads Trump 42 percent to 37 percent.That s in a four-way race, not a two-way.
The poll surveyed 2,832 people on August 9, and carries a 1.8 percent margin of error.
So Hillary is outside of even that.Alex Marlow, editor-in-chief at Breitbart, has this to say about their poll: It s an open secret that polls are often manipulated and spun to create momentum for a particular candidate or issue.
Breitbart News Network s first national poll marks the start of a major initiative to give our readers an accurate assessment on where the American people stand on the key topics and people of the day without the mainstream media filter.
It s pretty telling when the poll you conducted, with the intent of being as neutral as possible, brings back the same results as the polls you think are biased.
This poll has Hillary leading Trump by five percent.
In a four-way race, Reuters/Ipsos most recent poll likewise has Hillary leading by five points, Economist/YouGov has her up by six points, and even Rasmussen Reports has her up by three points.But Trump s crowds are huge and Hillary s aren t, so of course the polls are screwy.
Breitbart and Gravis are trying to put a positive spin on it, though, saying that the poll reveals areas where Trump can reach more voters.
For some reason, Doug Kaplan, managing partner at Gravis, thinks things like 11 percent support for Trump from the black community presents a problem for Hillary.
His rationale seems to be based only on the fact that Hillary has less support from the black community than Obama did in 2012.Hillary also won big when it came to the question, Do you agree or disagree?
Donald Trump/Hillary Clinton would fight for people like me.
Overall, only 39 percent feel that Hillary would fight for them, and Trump had 38 percent of that.
However, when it came to Muslims, a stunning 84 percent said they think she ll fight for them.Obviously, Trump won t have that kind of support from the Muslim community.
Not with his Islamophobic remarks toward them.Overall, Breitbart walked away from this with egg on their face, because they sought to prove one thing and failed miserably.
In the end, all they showed is that either Gravis is biased, too, or that (gasp!)
the polls are more accurate than the right would like to believe.Photo of Hillary by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images.
Photo of Donald Trump by Alex Wong/Getty Images.
Images merged by Rika Christensen