Mike Huckabee is fed up with evangelical Christians and threw a temper tantrum because they won t support his run for president.The Republican presidential wannabe aired his grievances with conservative Christians during an interview with Fox host Todd Starnes, throwing them under the bus in the process.Huckabee s poll numbers stand at a meager 1.3 percent, which makes him particularly angry at evangelicals as they flock to Ted Cruz.
This, of course, sent the former preacher into a jealous rage as he accused evangelicals of caring more about getting rich off social issues than changing the law.
A lot of them, quite frankly, I think they re scared to death that if a guy like me got elected, I would actually do what I said I would do, and that is I would focus on the personhood of every individual, we would abolish abortion based on the Fifth and 14th Amendment, we would ignore the Supreme Court s same-sex marriage decision.
As we all know, Huckabee has repeatedly said he intends to ignore the Supreme Court and abolish a woman s right to choose and same-sex marriage should he become president.
But he says evangelicals are not really into doing either of those things because it would bring their money-making operation to an end.
A lot of these organizations wouldn t have the ability to do urgent fundraising because if we slay the dragon, what dragon do they continue to fight?
And so, for many of them, it could be a real detriment to their organization s abilities to gin up their supporters and raise the contributions, and I know that sounds cynical but, Todd, it is what it is.
Huckabee then accused conservative Christians of running on secular standards instead of on biblical principles and told Starnes that these organizations should come out and admit to donors that they really don t believe in biblical principles, they just want to dupe Christians into making them rich.
Look, we re a club, we re an organization, Huckabee suggested they say.
We talk about prayer, but we don t necessarily believe that it will change things.
There comes a time in our lives where we either believe in a great God who does great things and uses sometimes the weak to get it done, or else we don t believe in that and we just get human might and we gather all the human resources and we live or die by the human sword.
Here s the audio via Right Wing Watch.This little hissy fit by Huckabee is incredibly revealing.
Not only did Huckabee decimate any chance he had of getting their support, he basically blew the whistle on how these conservative Christian organizations operate and what they actually believe.
Huckabee just came out and blasted these organizations of fleecing donors for money by pretending to believe in God and prayer and not really caring about enacting a social conservative agenda because they wouldn t be able to make any more money once it goes into effect.This might actually be the first time Huckabee has been truthful throughout his entire political career, and you can bet that conservatives are going to blow a gasket over it.Featured Image: Wikimedia