Seriously, Trump supporters are scarily messed up people.The Secret Service needs to be on high alert through Election Day, because Trump supporters are just waiting for Donald Trump to give the word so they can launch an assassination attempt against the Democratic nominee.As the third presidential debate got underway on Wednesday, a Trump supporter watching it on television decided to aim his gun at Hillary Clinton and take a picture of it for Twitter.
He a message to Donald Trump telling him he is ready to pull the trigger whenever he commands him to do so.Winning Democrats reports that Faggotini Alfredo (or @yunghomo), which is clearly a fake name, posted the image and tagged Trump with the caption, Give me the go-ahead my guy.
Here s the image via Winning Democrats.This isn t the first time a Trump supporter has threatened to assassinate Hillary.Trump himself called for Second Amendment people to do something to stop Hillary during a rally in August.Ever since then, the calls for bloody rebellion and assassination have only grown and gotten more frightening.One Trump supporter told the Boston Globe last week, If she s in office, I hope we can start a coup.
She should be in prison or shot.
That s how I feel about it.
We re going to have a revolution and take them out of office if that s what it takes.
There s going to be a lot of bloodshed.
But that s what it s going to take I would do whatever I can for my country.
Another Trump supporter in Georgia said he s ready for civil war if Hillary becomes president.
The war that s going to break out if Hillary Clinton s elected, if that happens, he said.
Your patriots are going to overthrow the government.'
Trump s supporters are only getting more eager to commit acts of violence as Election Day approaches.
These people are scary, and clearly they are just itching to start firing bullets if Trump gives the word.
And if he does, he should be immediately arrested for treason.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images, tweet via Winning Democrats