Who can forget when Lois Lerner sat smugly before the House panel and plead the 5th She sat there as cool as a cucumber and didn t answer about the IRS targeting of conservatives.Well, now it s time for her to finally be held accountable Truly accountable and NOT pleading the 5th.REMEMBER WHEN WE GOT A PEAK AT HER E-MAILS?
YIKES!
It s official!
Lois Lerner is the bitter b*tch we all knew she was when she took the 5th before Congress.
Who s not surprised that she targeted conservatives while she was at the IRS.
Remember Lois Lerner?
How could you forget.
She s the former head of the IRS Exempted Organizations division who was caught using the agency to target Americans based on their political views.Well we now have snippets from some of her email conversations, and it becomes crystal clear that she targeted conservatives because, well, she really hates conservatives.
Clearly the type of person who should be placed in a position of governmental power.From The Hill:Lois Lerner, the central figure in the IRS targeting controversy, called Abraham Lincoln the country s worst president in an email disclosed in a bipartisan Senate report, according to USA Today.
Look my view is that Lincoln was our worst president not our best, Lerner wrote in an email dated March 6, 2014.Lerner, the former IRS director of Exempted Organizations, joked in one email that the 16th president should have just let the South secede, rather than fighting the Civil War.
He should [have] let the south go, Lerner wrote in response to a friend who disparaged Texas as a pathetic state.
We really do seem to have [two] different mind sets.
And what is your mind set Ms. Lerner?
That government officials should target American citizens if they hold political views you don t like?The report also highlighted emails written by Lerner calling conservatives crazies and a holes.
Yes ladies and gentlemen, this is your government.
Corrupt beyond belief, shady, unethical, dangerous and vengeful.So why is Lois Lerner not sitting in a jail cell for this clear abuse of power?
Because oligarchy.Via: Zero Hedge