Infamous Italian dictator Benito Mussolini anticipated Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump s campaign slogan 89 years before Trump first descended the escalator at his Manhattan headquarters to declare his candidacy.Mussolini visited the United States in 1927 and gave a speech that was recorded by Fox Movietone News in one of the first newsreels with audio and video.
In that speech, Mussolini exhorted Americans to make America great.
I am very glad to be able to express my friendly feelings toward the American nation.
Friendship with which Italy looks at millions of citizens who, from Alaska to Florida, from the Pacific to the Atlantic, live in the United States, Italy is deeply rooted in our hearts.
This feeling created by mutual interests so contributed to preparation of an even brighter era in the lives of both nations.I greet with wonderful energy the American people and I see and recognize among you the salt of your land, as well as ours, my fellow citizens who are working to make America great.I salute the great American people.
I salute the Italians of America who unite in a single love of two nations.Mussolini was a fascist dictator who ruled Italy with an iron fist.
His regime engaged in assassination of political opponents, and put him in control of nearly all aspects of Italian life without respect for liberty and freedom of speech.A few years after this appearance, Mussolini formed a pact with Germany , forming the Axis along with Japan.
Eventually, the three nations were at war against the United States, England, and Russia in World War II.
They were of course, completely defeated.In 1945,Mussolini was caught and executed by his own people, shot as he tried to escape the country with his mistress.
Make America Great Again is not the only Trump slogan to be associated with fascism.
Throughout his campaign, Trump has declared America First, which shares a name with the America First Committee.
AFC was a pressure group associated with aviator Charles Lindbergh that was sympathetic to Adolph Hitler and tried to keep America out of World War II.Featured image via Youtube/Flickr