Donald Trump has declared war on the free press and his chief of staff apparently has his back.
Appearing on Face the Nation this Sunday, Reince Priebus defended the tweeter in chief when it comes to his feud with the media.Trump has proclaimed the press to be the enemy of the American people, (through his Twitter account, of course) and Priebus thinks we should take this seriously, but for all the wrong reasons.
CBS host John Dickerson asked Priebus about Trump naming the media the enemy in his tweet and the response he got was probably not what he was expecting.
Well, I think you should take it seriously, Priebus said.
I think that the problem we ve got is that we re talking about bogus stories like the one in the New York Times, that we ve had constant contact with Russian officials.
The next day, the Wall Street Journal had a story that the intel community was not giving the president a full intelligence briefing.
Both stories grossly inaccurate, overstated, overblown, and it s total garbage.
The chief of staff continued, explaining that his biggest complaint about the media is their habit of protecting their sources and not outing them to the world.
I think that the media should stop with this unnamed source stuff, Priebus said.
Put names on a piece of paper and print it.
If people aren t willing to put their name next to a quote, then the quote shouldn t be listed We re talking about stupidity and intelligence reporting that is based on facts that s not coming out of the actual heads of these intelligence agencies.
And we re sitting here talking about it.
And it s a shame.
And it needs to end.
Trump and his team are trying their best to convince the American people that the only place they can get the truth is from them.
They are doing all they can to delegitimize the media and convince us that everything the press tells us is a lie.
If the people don t trust the media, then there will be no one to bust them when the start spinning their alternative facts and this is precisely what the Trump administration wants.Here s the video:Featured image via video screen capture