Last week, MO State Senator Chappelle-Nadal said she hoped Trump would be assassinated on her Facebook page.
Thepost referring to President Donald Trump, has since been removed.
But Chappelle-Nadal confirmed to the Post-Dispatch that she had written it in response to another commenter before deleting it.The U.S. Secret Service s St. Louis field office is looking into this, the office confirmed.Kristina Schmidt, special agent in charge, told the Post-Dispatch that hypothetically in such investigations, agents try to determine intent, to determine if there was a violation of federal law.
If there is, then we refer it to the U.S. Attorney.
Our primary goal is to determine if there is intent and meaning behind it, Schmidt said.According to a screenshot of the now-deleted conversation obtained by the Post-Dispatch, another commenter named Christopher Gagn was writing about a cousin of his who he said was on Trump s Secret Service detail.Here is a screen shot of the post that Chappelle-Nadal deleted after she was outed on social media:After Chappelle-Nadal was criticized by thousands of Americans, she still refused to back down and told the media she would not apologize to President Trump for the heinous remarks she made.After some members (not all) of the Democrat Party suggested she should step down from her position as state senator, Maria Chappelle-Nadal suddenly had a change of heart.
All of a sudden, after her career as a MO lawmaker was being threatened, Chappelle-Nadal seems to have found her conscience, and is now offering a heartfelt apology to President Trump.
Hmmm .funny how that happened.State Sen. Maria Chappelle-Nadal apologized at a press conference streamed live on the Facebook page of the Clayton Times, a St. Louis County newspaper.
President Trump, I apologize to you and your family, Chappelle-Nadal said at the Wellspring Church in Ferguson, Missouri.
I also apologize to all the people in Missouri.
And I also apologize to my colleagues in the Missouri legislature for the mistake that I made.
Watch her tearful apology below.
Here's some video of Sen. Chappelle-Nadal's remarks in Ferguson today.
#moleg pic.twitter.com/ByMhEfvlvx Celeste Bott (@celestebott) August 20, 2017