When you insult CBS, Stephen Colbert goes on the offensive.
And Donald Trump is going to have a mental meltdown when he sees this.On Sunday, CBS host John Dickerson interviewed Donald Trump on Face The Nation.After being asked about his pathetic first 100 days, Trump whined about the fake media and then insulted Dickerson by saying that he refers to his show as Deface The Nation.
It s always a challenge like life itself is a challenge, Trump said.
It s very funny when the fake media goes out which we call the mainstream media, which sometimes, I must say is you.
You mean, me personally?
Dickerson asked.
Your show, I love your show, Trump replied.
I call it Deface the Nation , but your show is sometimes not exactly correct.
Trump s insult went viral and was heavily criticized for being the kind of behavior that is beneath the presidency.But Trump created a bigger problem for himself than he thought because Dickerson s friend Stephen Colbert also works for CBS, and while Dickerson had to exercise professionalism and restraint, Colbert informed Trump that as a comedian he isn t held to same standard.
Donald Trump, John Dickerson is a fair-minded journalist and one of the most competent people who will ever walk into your office, Colbert said.
John Dickerson has way too much dignity to trade insults with the president of the United States to his face.
But I, sir, am no John Dickerson.
With the gauntlet thrown down, Colbert proceeded to tear Trump apart with a scathing round of insults that will turn Trump into a stuttering mess if he ever sees it.
Mr. Trump, your presidency?
I love your presidency, I call it Disgrace the Nation.
Colbert said.
You re not the POTUS, you re the BLOTUS.
You re the glutton with a button.
You re a regular Gorge Washington.
You re the presi-dunce.
But you re turning into a real prictator.
You talk like a sign language gorilla who got hit in the head.
You have more people marching against you than cancer.
And then Colbert delivered the knockout blow.
Sir, the only thing your mouth is good for is being Vladimir Putin s d*ck holster.
Absolutely.
Sick.
Burn.Here s the video via YouTube.Featured Image: Shawn Thew Pool/Getty Images