When you want to learn more about what a person is really like, talk to the people they have been around a lot.
It s one thing to push a persona into the spotlight that has been sculpted to how one would like to be perceived,while it is quite another to get to the truth behind the actual person.So, when half a dozen former contestants from Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump s reality show The Apprentice come forward to issue statements condemning the candidate, we should all probably listen.
Some of those who have come forward are the winner from Season 4, Randal Pinkett alongside Kwame Jackson who was runner-up in Season 1.
They are also planning a press conference.According to Bloomberg: In statements, the contestants slammed Trump s rhetoric as divisive and accused him of running a campaign of sexism, xenophobia, racism, violence and hate.
Winning Project Manager from The Apprentice, Marshawn Evans Daniels said: Trump is passionately and strategically reigniting a dirty and divisive culture soaked in a history of prejudice, fear and hate.
It is unpatriotic, anti-American, self-serving, regressive and downright lazy.
Pinkett stated: As alums of The Apprentice, we have had the opportunity to work with Donald in various capacities, including as employees of the Trump Organization.
Based on that experience and Donald s campaign, we do not believe he is worthy of becoming president of the United States.
Of course, Trump responded to these criticisms in the most Trumpian way possible, and said the group of former contestants are six failing wannabes.
He said: How quickly they forget.
Nobody would know who they are if it weren t for me They just want to get back into the limelight like they had when they were with Trump.
Total dishonesty and disloyalty.
They should be careful or I ll play hours of footage of them individually praising me.
Ask how successful they ve been since they left.
Six failing wannabes out of hundreds of contestants so sad!
A statement in response that pretty much proves the former contestants point of what a hateful, vindictive person Trump is.
As you may have noticed, in Trump s mind, he s never wrong.
It s always someone else s fault.
It s always someone else doing something to him, and never ever the other way around.
This is a true sign of an egomaniacal narcissist.
It s amazing that he can fit his giant, braggadocios head through any door.We need to listen to these former contestants.
They ve had to work with him, and aren t afraid to tell it like it is.
Donald Trump cannot be our next president.
It wouldn t only be bad for the nation, but the entire world.Featured Photo by Amanda Edwards/Getty Images