Donald Trump called Atlanta a crime infested city that is falling apart in response to Rep. John Lewis calling him illegitimate.
That was a YUUUGE mistake.One of America s most influential southern cities just hit back at Trump for attacking the congressman who represents them in a scathing editorial on the front page of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution on Sunday.Earlier this week, Rep. Lewis stated his belief that Trump is an illegitimate president.
In response, Trump attacked Lewis on Twitter and the district Lewis represents, which includes the city of Atlanta, Georgia.Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results.
All talk, talk, talk no action or results.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017Trump literally accused Lewis of being all talk and no action.
This comes from a wealthy prick who dodged the draft during the Vietnam War and obtained his riches through inheritance while Lewis was busy fighting for civil rights and voting rights, and getting beaten by police for it during the Civil Rights Movement.
Indeed, Lewis has been a tireless crusader for equal rights and a tireless public servant for the city of Atlanta, the state of Georgia, and the United States.Trump immediately drew backlash for his attack, including from Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed..@RepJohnLewis is an American hero & a national treasure.
Period.
Full stop.
(1/3) pic.twitter.com/SN9W4uY31c Kasim Reed (@KasimReed) January 14, 2017That PEOTUS Trump would attack Congressman Lewis on MLK Day weekend for all talk no action when he bled to actually Make America Great Kasim Reed (@KasimReed) January 14, 2017is why far less than half the country supports him at the dawn of his presidency.
#HeStoodUpForUs #LetsStandForHim Kasim Reed (@KasimReed) January 14, 2017And the Atlanta Journal-Constitution followed that up with a blistering defense of the city and Lewis.The newspaper pointed out that many Atlanta residents slammed Trump for ignoring Lewis accomplishments and informed Trump that Atlanta boasts a strong and thriving downtown area with great neighborhoods.The congressional district that Lewis represents includes many of Atlanta s crown jewels as well as pockets of poverty.
It runs from Buckhead to Decatur, over to Atlanta s Westside and reaches south to include Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport and parts of Clayton County.
Georgia went for Trump, but the 5th Congressional District and the city of Atlanta as a whole remain solidly Democratic and supported Hillary Clinton over Trump in November.The district that Trump described as in horrible shape includes Emory University and Morehouse College, as well as Spelman College and Georgia Tech.
The Coca-Cola headquarters is just one of that district s many, high-profile corporate residents.
Lewis represents Midtown s shiny residential high-rises and the pricey Intown neighborhoods filled with renovated homes, the Beltline and Ponce City Market.The newspaper also pointed out that Trump once sought to build a skyscraper in the same city he is now calling horrible and crime infested.
Atlantans understood Saturday that a political fight was playing out.
But, the city wondered, did Trump, who once aspired to add his own skyscraper to the city s skyline, really think Atlanta was a depressing, dangerous place to live?
In short, Trump is a hypocritical bully who will do anything to attack someone who criticizes him, even if it means flat-out lying.Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images