New footage from a hidden camera reveals that this country greatly needs to embrace gun reform, despite what the National Rifle Association and right-wing gun nuts would like to have the rest of America believe.Just this year alone, toddlers have shot 23 people.
When small children stumble upon a gun, accidental shootings can easily happen, and have become far too common because part of this country is severely underestimating just how ineffective current gun safety measures are.The NRA has insisted that its Eddie Eagle program, which attempts to educate children about firearms, satisfies gun safety requirements for children but that couldn t be further from the truth.
Many parents also believe that while it s unfortunate that some kids get a hold of guns, it couldn t possibly be *their* child.To investigate this, local Charlotte station Fox46 set up a scenario that gave a group of children the opportunity to pick up a gun.
With the help of Mecklenburg County Sheriff Irwin Carmichael, several unsupervised toddlers were placed in a playroom with a realistic-looking BB gun and several other toys and games.
The only thing Carmichael told the children before he left them alone to play was, So if you find a gun do you touch it?
No.
No, what should you do?
Tell and adult go tell an adult.
Simple enough, right?Some of the children s parents who d volunteered their kids for the experiment were very confident that their child would be smart enough to follow instructions or leave the gun alone.
Some parents admitted that they d never even had a conversation with their child about gun safety.
What happened next shocked them: Basically proving that guns can be dangerous no matter how clearly you warn a child, the footage showed that a toddler s short attention span and desire to play will often override the safety measures adults try to teach them especially if they know they re not being watched.
While not every child engaged with the fake firearm, it only took 60 seconds of unsupervised playtime before a little boy discovered the BB gun.
Just a few minutes later, many of the children were firing the gun at each other.Unfortunately, this is exactly how so many accidental gun deaths happen, and it s time that the NRA and gun-loving conservatives that are against gun safety measures embrace this reality.Featured image via video screen capture