Benghazi was just a ploy to hurt Hillary Clinton s shot at the presidency, admits Rep. Darrell Issa.
Like other senior Republicans who have also admitted the truth about the right s never-ending Benghazi investigations, Issa opened up and told the truth to a friendly right-wing radio show.
You know, people often ask Trey Gowdy and myself, what did our investigations do?
Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) told Boston Herald Radio on Friday morning.
Gowdy currently chairs the House Select Committee on Benghazi, while Issa conducted his own investigation in 2012 when he served as chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
Well what they did is that they opened up an opportunity for the American people to sort of smell what s in the garbage can, Issa said.
And I think that s the reason that a devout socialist who wants to nationalize almost everything in America is close to and probably will beat Hillary here in New Hampshire.
It s not because they like Republicans.
It s because they don t trust Hillary.
Multiple bipartisan investigations have repeatedly cleared Sec.
Clinton and President Obama of malicious wrongdoing in response to the attack on the U.S. compound in Benghazi, Libya.
Those investigations found that systemic problems in the policies protecting ambassadors and other diplomats on foreign soil led to the tragedy that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and the contractors hired to provide security.That hasn t deterred the right from constantly invoking Benghazi, particularly in relation to Clinton s presidential campaign.
Fox News and other conservative media outlets recently expressed the hope that the Michael Bay movie 13 Hours would provoke an outcry against Clinton outside of the circle of the right.
Instead, the film has been a box office flop and is one of the worst-performing films ever released by the super-successful director.Just as screaming Benghazi failed to derail President Obama s re-election, it does not appear to be a potent force in halting Sec.
Clinton s presidential campaign.Featured image via Flickr