While Donald Trump is considering Arizona s former Governor (and anti-immigrant) Jan Brewer as a prospective vice presidential nominee, the Clinton campaign is eyeing his now arch nemesis Elizabeth Warren.Warren, who disappointed progressive outlets after refusing multiple times to run for president, has become a viable V.P.
choice for both Senator Sanders and Secretary Clinton in recent months as the primary battle heats up.
In recent weeks, the mounting feud between Warren and Trump over Twitter has become an all out brawl, with the Senator from Massachusetts coming out on top every time.According to the Huffington Post, the Clinton campaign has noticed.
Senior and close advisors within the frontrunner s campaign have gone on the record (albeit anonymously) saying very influential people in the campaign pushing for her and that her ability to get under his [Trump s] skin is thrilling.
As one adviser told the Post: You want a running mate who can take the fight to the other side with relish.
Geography does not matter, but attitude and talent and energy and bringing excitement to the campaign, Senator Warren does all that.
Penny Lee, a former aide to Senator Harry Reid and now a Democratic consultant, summed up why having Warren on the ticket with Clinton would be so beneficial, and why senior advisors have been taking her seriously: She can help validate Clinton with progressives and remind them that despite their differences in the primary, the alternative of the Donald would be untenable.
Outlets have speculated for months that Clinton s V.P.
nominee would be Julian Castro, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or Sherrod Brown, Senator from Ohio.
Castro, however, has ruled out being Clinton s V.P.
While turning down the slot for second in command, Castro, who endorsed Clinton last year, has been an active surrogate for the campaign across the country.Going into a general election, Warren could prove an asset not just for the progressive vote, but for independents and moderate Republicans, who referred to Warren in a 2015 study group as smart, interesting, sincere, capable, knowledgeable and sincere.
Drafting Warren to a Vice Presidential spot may bode well in a presidential election, but it could hurt the Democrats chances at keeping the senate.But with Trump as the GOP prospect, maybe a Clinton-Warren ticket could be the explosive candidacy Democrats need.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images