Before Supreme Court Justice Scalia s body was even cold the Republican Party vowed to stop any attempt by President Obama to nominate a replacement for his seat.
Now, the Republican National Committee (RNC) is announcing that they have created a task force to do just that.According to The Hill the RNC has joined forces with an advocacy group, America Rising Squared, to attack Obama.
The new obstructionist force is apparently going to launch television and radio ads, media appearances and petitions to support Senate Republicans who have vowed to not hold hearings when Obama nominates a replacement for Scalia.
The group also plans to go after Democrats who are up for re-election in the Senate and the two Democratic candidates (Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton) who are running for president.RNC Chairman Reince Priebus commented on the campaign to prevent Obama from carrying out his Constitutional duties, calling it: the most comprehensive judicial response effort in our party s history We re going to hold everyone accountable and make sure Democrats have to answer to the American people for why they don t want voters to have a say in this process.
What s really clear here is just how delusional the Republican Party is.
They keep saying that the want to make sure we have a voice in this process as if we don t already.When we elected and re-elected Barack Obama we did so with the full knowledge that he would have the responsibility to pick a Supreme Court justice if a seat opened up.
We expect him to fill the vacancies in the court and uphold the checks and balances that our founding fathers thought were so important.
We elected him with the understanding that he would be president for eight years, not seven.Furthermore, I ve heard the GOP call him a lame duck president even though it is only March of his last year.
A lame duck president is not at all what they seem to think it is.
According to Merriam-Webster a lame duck is: an elected official or group continuing to hold political office during the period between the election and the inauguration of a successor.
President Obama will not be a lame duck until after we pick a new commander-in-chief in November.
So, even by their very own statements, he has an absolute right to pick the next justice for the Supreme Court.
Of course, it is the GOP we are talking about and they seem to just make shit up as they go along.Featured image via Wikimedia (Obama)/ Flickr (Priebus)