Mia Frias-Russell, an African American mother of three, recently moved from Indianapolis, Indiana to the smaller town of Campbellsburg, nearly 600 miles away.
According to City Data, the town has a population of less than 600 people and 97.4 percent of the residents are white.Ms.
Russell says she has experienced various forms of racial discrimination since moving to the small Indiana town.
During an interview with WTHR, she said people yell racial slurs at her while she s outside working in the yard.On July 20, the situation escalated.
Ms. Russell stepped outside her Campbellsburg home that morning to find racial slurs sprayed all over her house.
The words N*gg*r go, and N*gg*r b*tch were among the messages left for the mother and her three children.
Her car was also painted with racial slurs.
Authorities also believe that the vandals put sugar in the vehicle s gas tank.The terrified mom recorded a video of the aftermath, which she then uploaded to Facebook.
I m scared, she said through her tears, I don t know who could have done this.
Ms. Russell went on to say that the day before someone tried to run her car off the road.Watch the video below via YouTube:According to WTHR, Ms. Russell is renting her home in Campbellsburg.
She is now trying to get out of her lease because she does not feel safe living in the area.
She described the incident as both traumatizing and terrifying.
Authorities say they are looking for the people responsible for vandalizing Ms. Russell s home.
According to ISP Sgt.
Jerry Goodin those responsible will be charged with criminal mischief.
The police may also upgrade the charges using the state s bias crime statute.
Indiana s bias crime statute is similar to hate crimes statutes used to enhance criminal charges in other parts of the United States.It s unimaginable that, in the year 2016, this young mother does not feel safe driving down the street or even falling asleep in her own home.
This is terrorism and those who were involved should be prosecuted as terrorists, not as vandals or petty criminals.Image credit; video screen capture via Mia Frias-Russell on Facebook