We all know that the only reason Donald Trump is so popular among the Republican base is because he is because of his racist rhetoric.
His Trump Hate is very appealing to the vile voters the GOP panders to, and every single time he says something bombastic his poll numbers go up.
However, if you ask one of these Trump supporters if they are racist they ll assure you that they are not most of the time.Steve Bowman of Omaha is a different kind of Trump supporter, because when he was confronted with a truth bomb, he actually admitted that he was wrong.WOWT reporter John Chapman, an African-American, approached Bowman and asked him if he thinks a sign in his front window that said, Ni***r Obama was racist.
Bowman responded: Well, I grew up in the 60s.
I remember racial riots.
I know Martin Luther King.
I m 57 so I grew up in the late 50s early 60s and I know what it s like the water guns the racial riots and Birmingham.
You know the south, I know all about it.
I have a master s degree in history It might be a little racist.
A little?
No, it s A LOT racist and apparently it s not the first time.
According to his neighbors, an African-American family, he often puts up racially charged signs: He s been putting up stuff like that constantly.
Constantly putting up stuff like that and I ll bring it up to him gently, you know, take that down please you know this is not the neighborhood for that neighbor Regina Wright told WOWT.
He understands and he will take it down after I mention it to him, but then he ll put something else up.
Bowman took the sign down after the reported confronted him, but whether or not he puts one up again is anybody s guess.
What s really ridiculous is that he tried to use the Civil Rights Movement as some kind of explanation for his sign.
It was almost as if he was saying, I lived through that, so I can t possibly be a racist If anything, the fact that he remembers the horrific treatment of the African-American community should be even more of a reason not to have something like that in his window.But as we know by now, common sense and inclusiveness do not grow in Trump supporters gardens.Watch: Featured image via video screenshot