Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson is NOT a fan of Donald Trump and he sure as hell does NOT support the budget Trump is pushing.Trump s budget is the most draconian budget in modern times.
In order to spend more money on defense that America does not need, Trump is slashing funding for just about everything else, including Meals on Wheels, PBS, healthcare, science, education, diplomacy, the Arts, etc The list goes on and on, and that makes Tyson very angry.Angry enough, in fact, that he took to Twitter and absolutely trashed Trump s budget in an epic rant.The fastest way to Make a America Weak Again: Cut science funds to our agencies that support it.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017The fastest way to Make America Sick Again: Cut funding to the National Institutes of Health Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017The fastest way to Make America Stupid: Cut funds to programs that support education.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017The fastest way to thwart Earth s life-support systems for us all: Turn EPA into EDA the Environmental Destruction Agency.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017The fastest way to melt glaciers & flood the World s coastal cities: Ignore scientists and do nothing to stem the rise of CO2 Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017We can all imagine a land that provides no support for Art.
But is that a place you d want to Live?
To Visit?
To Play?
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017The very best way to support and feed your delusions: Surround yourself with people whose world views match yours exactly.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017We all want to Make America Great Again.
But that won t happen until we first Make America Smart Again.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 19, 2017If and when Donald Trump becomes aware that a guy light years smarter than him just eviscerated his budget proposals, he ll likely blow a gasket and throw a massive temper tantrum.But Tyson is right to blast Trump and his worthless budget.
It s harmful to America and the American people.
It goes against the values we hold so dear and puts this country on the path irrelevance.
Trump has made America a laughingstock around the world and it will only get worse if his budget is allowed to pass.America should listening to people like Tyson, not a fool like Trump.Here s the video: