On Monday, President Obama announced that he was expanding background checks to close the gun show loophole and ordering federal authorities to more aggressively enforce the current gun laws.
Republicans, predictably, went insane and started screaming tyranny and unconstitutional.
In the world of the GOP gun nut the president or any lawmaker for that matter should not ever, EVER try to make this country a safer place because .FREEDOM!One day after announcing his executive action on gun laws, President Obama held a press conference to explain why he felt it was important that he take action.
The president was introduced by Mark Barden, whose son Daniel was killed in the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut, and when Obama spoke of the twenty children who died that day he broke down and cried in front of the nation.
Callous Republicans immediately accused him of faking his tears for political gain new Speaker of the House Paul Ryan was one of those people.Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) spoke to Yahoo News s Katie Couric, on Thursday, where he was asked if he was moved by the president s tears on Tuesday.
The Republican responded: I was affected by it, but I thought we should ve had the same kind of reaction when James Foley was beheaded, when San Bernardino and Paris occurred.
That s the kind of reaction I had when those occurred.
Really?
He can t understand why the news of twenty FIRST-GRADERS being murdered in their classrooms was a little bit more emotional?
These children, six-and-seven years old, were itty bitty and each of their bodies had between three and eleven bullets in them; they were literally riddled with bullets.
All of the mass shootings we have experienced over the last decade and a half have been horrifying, but this one was especially hard because the majority of the victims were so small.
But Paul Ryan can t understand why this particular one makes the president cry.
Okay.Ryan wasn t done yet, he went on to say that the president was using gun control as a distraction : What I think he s trying to do is distract from basically his failed policies I think the president should put as much effort into going after homegrown jihadists and going after terrorist infiltration of our refugee network and going after defeating ISIS as he is in trying to frustrate the law-abiding citizens Second Amendment rights.
This scumbag actually believes that trying to prevent more gun massacres is the president trying to distract from real problems.
As if keeping our kids alive isn t a big deal.
He thinks our time would be better spent going after the mythical ISIS fighters who are hiding among refugees or homegrown jihadists ?
Why?
Because going after law-abiding citizens like Dylann Roof, Adam Lanza and the hundreds of other white American terrorists we have in this country is tyranny.
Seems legit.Ryan opened his mouth and proved to us, once again, why it is so damn important that we get off of our sofas and vote next November.
If we sit at home, we are just giving the Gun Nuts of America license to kill more of our kids and loved ones.
We are one of the most powerful countries in the world and we can t even send our children to school and know that they will come back to us.
The United States has become a war zone and the weapons of choice are as easy to buy as toilet paper.
How scary is that?
Murica!Featured image via Gage Skidmore