It has been well documented that Donald Trump s presidential campaign has been endorsed by multiple white supremacist groups.
One of the groups supporting Trump is the American National Super PAC.
A branch of the organization, the American Freedom Party, is directing a new robocalling effort to try and connect their message with voters.
They called Iowans before their caucus, and they are now calling voters in New Hampshire.Here is the message people are hearing when they answer their phones: We don t need Muslims.
We need smart, educated, white people.
I am a farmer and white nationalist.
Support Donald Trump.
Here is a video that lets you hear the three different voices that have contributed to the message.https://www.facebook.com/cnnpolitics/videos/1068444389864060/?fref=nfOne of those voices is that of Jarod Taylor.
Tayler is well known white supremacist leader.
He is the editor of the white nationalist media outlet, AmRen.
Taylor has ties to various white supremacist organizations and has been very vocal in his support for Trump.
During a segment on CNN, Taylor attempted to justify his views, saying: Why would we want more Muslims?
Muslims have been a terrible problem for Europe, and here they want to pray five times a day, stop the assembly line, they want foot baths before they go to prayer, they want women-only swimming pool hours, and some of them want to kill us!
Why should anyone want more Muslims?
Trump has denounced the endorsement by the group.
That being said, it isn t surprising that hate groups have latched on to Trump s campaign.
So far his campaign has been largely built by exploiting the anti-brown hatred held by many conservatives.The trend has been that as more GOP candidates drop out of the race, their followers flock to Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio.
So, it seems like Taylor and this group of racist friends may have backed the wrong horse to drive home their white advocacy agenda.
Despite getting the media attention, Trump s stance on immigration is only nominally different that Iowa GOP caucus winner, Ted Cruz.
Since the group s efforts appear to only be hurting Trump, let s hope the group decides to keep up their efforts, backing whoever eventually gets the nomination, in the general election.Featured image from video screenshot via Facebook