I forgot about the claim from Hillary Clinton that she had actually talked to Eleanor Roosevelt.
Crazy!
Nobody tells stories like this better than Rush Limbaugh Transcript from Rush Limbaugh: It appears in Page Six of the New York Post, and the headline is: If Hillary Makes it to the White House, So Will Huma Abedin.
Richard Johnson has the story.
You know what it s about?
It s about the fact that they ve already planned the bedroom in the White House Huma is going to use.She s going to live there with Hillary!
She s going to live in the White House in the same bedroom on the second floor residence Let me just read it to you.
This is OrbMagazine, by the way, Richard Johnson gets the details from.
Richard Turley is the writer in OrbMagazine.
After 20 years as Hillary s gatekeeper, no one else could screen the calls and decide who gets access as ably as she does.
Orb predicts Clinton, in emulation of her hero Eleanor Roosevelt, will install Huma in the second-floor bedroom occupied during the FDR administration by Lorena Hickok Do you know who Lorena Hickok was?
(interruption) You ever heard of Lorena Hickok?
(interruption) You have?
(interruption) You tell me.
You ve heard of Lorena ?
(interruption) All right, here you go.
Snerdley s on the case.
Huma will sleep in the second-floor bedroom occupied during the FDR administration by Lorena Hickok, the journalist who was Mrs. Roosevelt s soul mate and intimate companion.'
Yes, indeed.
So Hillary s got a hero, heroine.
It s Eleanor Roosevelt.Remember, you people that were Maybe you Millennials, you may not know this.
I doubt that you have been told this in your education, and I doubt you ve run across this at Yahoo!
News or Yahoo Parenting.
But do you know that back in 1992/1993, Hillary Clinton actually (late at night, early in the morning) walked the halls of the White House and said she spoke with Eleanor Roosevelt s ghost, and that Eleanor Roosevelt guided her, gave her advice, mentored her?Eleanor Roosevelt s ghost!
While Hillary prowled the empty halls of the White House.
(interruption) Some people think I m kidding?
You know, they might.
You re right, Snerdley.
I m not kidding.
For those of you Millennials everything I said dead on.
Hillary admitted to this.
We only know this because Hillary told us, and she told us this proudly.
And, by the way, the Drive-By Media back then thought it was wonderful.Nobody said, What!
You re running around talking to Eleanor Roosevelt s ghost?
Nobody said that.
Everybody said, Wow, that s cool!
Holy smokes!
What did she tell you?
And Hillary had an answer.
What Eleanor say?
She told me to hang in there.
She told me It s incredible.
You re right; there s probably some Millennials listening who think I m just totally making this up.
I m not.
It happened.Anyway, they ve already got Huma in the same bedroom that Eleanor Roosevelt s intimate companion slept in.
(interruption) Well, apparently, just like FDR got left out in the cold!
What is this soul mate and intimate companion Lorena Hickok ?
What about FDR?
(interruption) Well, I know he had his own soul mate and intimate companion and Weiner has a phone.
He has his own soul mate and intimate companion.
It will work!Via: live leak