Former conservative turned liberal activist, David Brock, suffered a heart attack Tuesday.
The news is scant, but it doesn t seem to be life threatening, thank goodness.
Conservatives, though, are completely giddy about the fact that a man is ill.Brock, who was instrumental in the right-wing campaign to take down Bill Clinton, and of the smear campaign against Clarence Thomas accuser Anita Hill, had a change of heart in the late 90s.Since his wakeup, Brock founded MediaMatters, the left-wing media watchdog organization and an anti-Republican PAC called American Bridge.
He was (and is) also a strong advocate for Hillary Clinton.It s understandable why conservatives would dislike Brock.
MediaMatters made its claim to fame by using Republicans own words against them.
Literally.
Most of what they post is video and transcript of Republicans putting their own feet in their mouths.
Naturally, they call that fake news and worse.
The right tends to look at Brock as some sort of bogeyman, much like they look at George Soros.
So, imagine the glee from the pro-life party over the fact that Brock suffered a heart attack.David Brock had a heart attack.
Maybe Satan is calling one of his children home.
Cailin4Trump?
(@Cailin4Trump) March 22, 2017GEEI wonder if Deep State is covering their assess by getting rid of evidence ??
?
?pic.twitter.com/w1evcNpi1i#MAGA David Brock Nunues Boca Vista (@bocavista2016) March 22, 2017David brock has a heart attack the same week Rockefeller croaks.
The swamp is draining itself friends!
#draintheswamp #pizzagate #NWO #MAGA Exposing The Tyrants (@DRAINTHESWAMP17) March 22, 2017@dcexaminer there is a god Ralph Valente (@ralphfvalente) March 22, 2017Brock was supposedly involved in the fake right-wing story, Pizzagate, which alleged that Hillary Clinton and her campaign manager were running a child sex ring out of the basement of a D.C. pizza place that had no basement.
Some still apparently believe it, though.The Pedophile Case must be close to breaking: Media Matters founder David Brock suffers heart attack https://t.co/BvEQnffpLN @zerohedge Dr. Dave Janda ??
(@docdhj) March 22, 2017 David Brock if you are on your deathbed, implicate your buddies at Comet Ping Pong Pizza.
Get well soon, hopefully behind prison bars.
Conservapedia (@jay_pe) March 22, 2017David Brock truth will always win #pizzagate Zombellalove1??
(@ZombellaLove1) March 22, 2017And for the conspiratorially minded, a cigar is never just a cigar.David Brock knows too much.
If it s really hitting the fan, he s no longer an asset to the DNC Mafia.
Not surprised to hear of heart attack Heddi (@SmithHeddi) March 22, 2017The Clinton s are cleaning house.
David Brock, Media Matters founder and Clinton ally, suffers heart attack | https://t.co/2YfEjX4Luo Victor Stalworth (@victorstalworth) March 22, 2017.
@dcexaminer Looks like David Brock knows too much, and has possibly become a liability to the criminals in the #DeepState.
pic.twitter.com/5rrlkjwtI4 Morpheus (@RedPillingYou) March 22, 2017Sad.Featured image via Mad about the Ban/Flickr