A lot of credit needs to be given to those who work in the media and have to put up with these presidential candidates daily.
Especially those coming from the clown car on the right in particular, Donald Trump.
The real estate mogul will literally say practically anything that suits him in the moment.
It doesn t matter if he changes his tune five minutes later, his opinions sway with whatever is most opportunistic for him at any given time.Take, for instance, his tax returns that Mitt Romney and several others are calling for.
Now, during the latest GOP debate he said he can t show his returns because they are currently being audited, and he cited that s what happens with most large businesses and business owners, so for that reason he can t show his returns yet until the audit is over.
Then after the debate, during an interview with CNN s Chris Cuomo, Trump claimed he was likely being audited and unfairly treated by the IRS because he s a Christian.
So, in the matter of about an hour, he tried pandering to business owners and then later to Christians.
After all, several supposed Christians feel as though they are being persecuted for not being allowed to legally discriminate any longer, and Trump knowing this selling line is already out there, uses it for his own purposes as well.
He s not dumb but he clearly thinks those who like him are.
After all, he loves the poorly educated.
Cuomo, however, had to do his best to hold it together while Trump was trying to claim he was being audited based on his Christianity.
Trump said: I m always audited by the IRS, which I think is very unfair.
I don t know whether it s maybe because of religion or because of something else, maybe because I m doing this [running for office].
When Cuomo asked Trump to further explain what he meant by religion, Trump said: Well, maybe because of the fact that I m a strong Christian and I feel strongly about it, so maybe there s a bias.
This is when you can clearly see Cuomo raise his eyebrows and hold his face together as best he can not to just laugh in Trump s face.
Trump continued: You have many religious groups that are complaining about that.
They ve been complaining about it for a long time.
So wait, now Trump is a religious group ??
Umm Trump is clearly trying to dodge the need to release his returns, and he s trying as many lines as possible to see what sticks so he won t have to release them.
Kudos for the effort, but not all of us are as dumb as Trump supporters and can spot this clear poppycock from a mile away.This is the video of his entire post-debate interview with CNN, but his audit malarkey begins at the 4:27 mark: Featured image via YouTube