Ever since the attacks on the U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012, Republicans have been trying everything within their powers to throw the Obama administration, in particular former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, under the bus.
However, after several investigations surrounding the attack, it has continuously been shown that there was no wrong doing.Even Fox News reported: Investigation by the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee has found that the CIA and the military acted properly in responding to the 2012 attack on a U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya.The report alleges no wrongdoing by Obama administration appointees.Debunking a series of persistent allegations hinting at dark conspiracies surrounding the incident, the report concludes that there was no intelligence failure, no delay in sending a CIA rescue team, no missed opportunity for a military rescue, and no evidence the CIA was covertly shipping arms from Libya to Syria.
Yet, the investigations still continued and questions are still being raised to this day.Something just happened during an interview on Fox News, however, when one of the lead Republicans who s been leading the charge against the Obama administration accidentally admitted the truth, but then tried to pivot away.While Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC) was discussing the fact that one of the lead investigators for Benghazi just quit because there was nothing more to discover, he seemed to debunk his main conspiracy theory that there was a stand down order given, which would have prevented military help from arriving at the compound in time to help.Gowdy said: Whether or not they could have gotten there in time, they couldn t. I don t think there s any question about that.
But then clearly pivoting as if to give the illusion that he didn t say such a thing, he adds: Why could you not?
Why were you not positioned to do it?
Why could we not do a lot of things, Gowdy?
Why could you not get a decent haircut that didn t make you look like you crawled out of a Harry Potter novel?
The fact of the matter is, he just admitted the Obama administration is in the clear and there was nothing more they could have done to get help there in time.What s most interesting is the fact that Gowdy is now raising questions that Hillary Clinton raised right after it happened with her now infamous line, What difference does it make?
Because in full context, her response to questioning was: With all due respect, the fact is we had four dead Americans.
Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided that they d they go kill some Americans?
What difference at this point does it make?
Going on to say that we need to figure out what happened, what we can do differently, and how we can go forward to make sure it never happens again.Gowdy is all out of arguments and the Benghazi attack investigations have been settled.
What we need to do now is make sure we keep our current diplomats protected and prevent another attack from occurring.
Which is what Republicans should be focused on rather than try to use the attacks as a political posturing move to throw the Obama administration and Hillary Clinton under the bus.
Maybe we should have an investigation into how many unwarranted, tax-payer funded investigations we ve had.
Featured image via video screen capture/ HT C&L