If Republicans had hoped to escape 2016 without pulling a Todd Akin and costing themselves yet another election over idiotic abortion comments, they just lost it.In Missouri, a contentious fight over giving personhood rights to fetuses (and therefore legally defining abortion as murder), has given rise to one of the most horrific pro-life arguments made so far.
Tila Hubrect, a state representative arguing in favor of fetal personhood claimed that abortion should be outlawed even in cases of rape because getting pregnant is the silver lining of the bad situation.Her comments were captured by Progress Missouri:It is not up to us to say no, just because there was a rape, they cannot exist.
Sometimes bad things happen horrible things but sometimes God can give us a silver lining through the birth of a child.Many conservative pro-lifers think it, Hubrect just said it out loud: Women are baby factories and if they happen to get pregnant while being raped, then look on the bright side.The sickening conclusion is that women should be given absolutely no choice in who they conceive with.Missouri s Republicans are currently trying to make that conclusion fully realized with a particularly egregious pro-life bill that would define personhood at the moment of conception.
This would allow fetuses to be given due process and possibly assigned state lawyers to file suits against their mothers if they tried to seek an abortion.
Taken to its logical conclusion (which the Supreme Court would certainly take issue with), women could be held accountable for murder if they were to exercise their right to an abortion.Rep.
Jay Barnes (R) recently bragged to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that this bill would make Missouri the most pro-life state in the country over night.
He and people like Hubrect aren t messing around.Even in conservative Missouri, however, there seems to be limits to how far people are willing to let lawmakers control their bodies.
Coincidentally or not, Missouri is also the home of former Rep. Todd Akin, who infamously floated the bogus theory that if there is a legitimate rape then the female body has ways to shut down her uterus and avoid a pregnancy.
Akin went on to get positively demolished in his election to Democrat Claire McCaskill.It seems likely that Hubrect, perhaps overly giddy at the implications of this bill, may have just given her fellow Republican lawmakers a lot of heartache on Election Day.Listen to Hubrect s comments below:Featured image via LinkedIn