American taxpayers who expected Donald Trump to work hard for them are going to be sorely disappointed when they see this.Trump has spent a full month in office, or 744 hours.And so far, he has very little to show for it.
Trump is already on track to issue more executive orders than President Obama ever did and he is on pace to spend more time on vacation as well.According to research by the Washington Post, Donald Trump may be the laziest president America has ever had to put up with.Of the 744 hours he has spent in office, Trump 293 hours not working while in Washington DC, 25 hours golfing, 13 hours tweeting, and 106 hours at Mar-a-Lago.
That s a total of 437 hours of Trump not being on the job.In contrast, Trump has only spent a pathetic six hours in intelligence briefings and only 21 hours dealing with foreign relations.
And can we really count all of the time Trump has spent whining about the press and bragging about himself as work time?
Probably not.Here s the chart via The Washington Post.Trump promised he wouldn t have time to play golf because he would be working so hard, but he is already on pace to surpass the number of rounds President Obama played during his first term.
Trump has also taken three trips to Palm Beach in Florida to stay at his resort at a cost of $10 million to taxpayers thus far, meaning Trump is on pace to shatter the 8-year $90 million price tag of President Obama s vacations and the number of days President Obama spent on vacation within his first year on the job.Considering how much conservatives whined and bitched about President Obama s golfing and vacations, the fact that they haven t complained once about Trump s is absolute hypocrisy.
Compared with Obama, Trump is much worse.And as for those executive orders, Trump has signed 12 so far and that comes out to 136 this year, which means he ll sign more in two years than President Obama did in eight years if he stays on this pace.
As we know, conservatives complained every time President Obama signed an executive order, claiming that executive orders undermine Congress.
But apparently, conservatives have no problem with Trump acting like a king.
And those orders have done nothing but cause chaos and hurt people while keeping government agencies from doing their jobs.Rather than working for the American people like he claimed he would, Trump is treating the most important job in the world like it s not much of a priority.
In fact, he only seems interested in tweeting, bragging about himself during press conferences, and playing golf at a time when the world needs steady, hard-working leadership.
And since Trump s work has mostly caused chaos, one can hardly say that he is working on behalf of the people.
He s only interested in causing more problems and helping himself.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images