Donald Trump spent Wednesday morning trying to convince the American media that his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, is a really good guy who is being railroaded by some crazy woman.
During one of his interviews with Good Morning America, though, he took it a step further and threatened to file charges on Michelle Fields, the reporter Lewandowski is charged with assaulting, because she touched Trump s arm.The hosts asked Trump if it was clear to him, after watching the video, that his campaign manager did touch Fields, even though he has insisted that he didn t. Trump responded: Well, what s clear is that she was touching me and she broke through the Secret Service.
And she was asking me questions when there were no questions we were leaving, the press conference was over.
She broke through, she grabbed my arm, I think a couple of times.
You see me trying to get her hand off my arm and he saw something and did very minor..Her face wasn t that of a woman screaming in pain He didn t try to throw her to the ground.
You look at Twitter, people think it s a total disgrace she s filing charges.
I would just like to point out that this is typical abuser behavior.
Instead of Trump admitting that his campaign manager was wrong and he should have kept his hands off of this woman, he is trying to place the blame squarely on her shoulders.
It s like when an abusive husband punches his wife in the face, then he and his buddies say, Well, you shouldn t have mouthed off.
After the long rant about how Fields was to blame for Lewandowski s actions, Trump said: I m sure there will be a counter-claim coming down the line.
Should I file charges against her because she touched my arm as well?
His campaign manager did NOT just touch her arm.
He grabbed her so hard that she was left with bruises, that is not minor, it is battery and that s why he was charged with a crime.
Clearly the police believed that he assaulted this reporter and it is disgusting the Trump is defending him.
However, this is what we have come to expect from the Republican frontrunner.
He and his campaign have zero respect for anybody, especially not women.Watch the interview:https://www.facebook.com/GoodMorningAmerica/videos/vb.59306617060/10153518346397061/?type=2&theaterFeatured image via video screenshot