THIRTEEN REASONS TO DECLARE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD A TERRORIST ORGANIZATION HERE S REASON NUMBER 1 PLEASE GO TO THE LINK ABOVE FOR THE COMPLETE LIST1.
The motto and logo of the Muslim Brotherhood speak for themselves.
The motto is Allah is our objective.
The Prophet is our leader.
The Qur an is our law.
Jihad is our way.
Dying in the way of Allah is our highest hope.
[Allah is greater!].
The logo includes crossed swords and the Quran emblazoned across the Earth.
Below the swords is the Arabic word for prepare, which is pulled from Quran 8:60 on the spoils of war:muslimbrotherhood And prepare against them whatever you are able of power and of steeds of war by which you may terrify the enemy of Allah and your enemy and others besides them whom you do not know [but] whom Allah knows.
And whatever you spend in the cause of Allah will be fully repaid to you, and you will not be wronged.
We are not terrorists, wrote el-Haddad in a recent article in the New York Times.
The Muslim Brotherhood s philosophy is inspired by an understanding of Islam that emphasizes the values of social justice, equality and the rule of law We believe that our faith is inherently pluralistic and comprehensive and that no one has a divine mandate or the right to impose a single vision on society Nothing speaks more to our unequivocal commitment to nonviolence than our continued insistence on peaceful resistance, despite unprecedented state violence .The faith , which el-Haddad avoids naming, is Islam.
The very essence of Islam, as sanctioned in the Quran and the hadiths, however, seems to be the belief in a divine mandate to impose the single vision of Islam on the world if necessary, through violent jihad.
Its motto is: Allah is our objective; the Prophet is our leader; the Quran is our law; Jihad is our way; dying in the way of Allah is our highest hope .Even dawa, the Islamic call to conversion, or proselytizing as explained by the Muslim Brotherhood s spiritual leader, Yusuf al-Qaradawi, host of one of Al Jazeera s most popular programs, Sharia and Life, which reaches an estimated 60 million viewers worldwide is an Islamic summons for the non-violent conquest of non-Muslim lands.
As Qaradawi told a Muslim Arab Youth Association convention in Toledo, Ohio, in 1995, We will conquer Europe, we will conquer America!
Not through sword but through Da wa.
Qaradawi, in a recording from 2007, says that the aim of this peaceful conquest consists mainly of the introduction of Islamic law, sharia.
According to Qaradawi, sharia should be introduced in a new country gradually, over a five-year period, before implementing it in full.
Sharia includes the end of free speech under blasphemy laws ; the oppression of women, including women being worth half as much as a man in court and inheritance; polygamy, and the persecution of Jews (Qaradawi advocates killing all of them).
Qaradawi has explained in TV recordings how sharia also includes chopping off hands for theft, killing apostates and homosexuals, as well as beating women as a means of disciplining them.The New York Times, ostensibly concerned with fake news , evidently has no qualms about lending its pages to such straightforward propaganda as El-Haddad s piece on behalf of the Muslim Brotherhood.Read more: Gatestone Institute