The Ku Klux Klan had quite a year in 2015 the racist hate group made an unprecedented comeback and more than doubled its membership last year all thanks to the bigotry and hateful rhetoric of the conservative party and one Republican presidential candidate in particular.Although GOP front runner Donald Trump denies that he s affiliated with the KKK, there s no denying that the racist club has seen a substantial increase ever since Trump came onto the political scene.
This was proven in a recent report by the Southern Poverty Law Center, called The Year in Hate and Extremism.
The organization discovered that 2015 saw an apparent comeback of Klan groups a 164 percent increase in KKK membership to be exact, all thanks to Trump.In 2014, membership had only increased by 72 but in 2015 membership had skyrocketed up to 190 despite the fact that two prominent KKK groups had shut down that year.
Even with the disappearance of the Fraternal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan and the Knight Rider Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, there was still a 14 increase increase in active hate groups something the report says was due to worsening income inequality, the rise of left-wing movements like Black Lives Matter, major advances for LGBT people and growing numbers of refugees and undocumented workers that have angered Republicans and white people.
The report blames the GOP for the rise in hate groups, and believes Trump is largely responsible.
The report says: The bulk of that anger is coming from beleaguered working-class and, to a lesser extent, middle-class white people, especially the less educated the very same groups that most vociferously support Trump.
Being that Trump is a racist that supports white supremacists and his supporters are basically just like him, the report said that Trump served as a mainstream channel for some of America s most racist and awful people to air their bigotry without much consequence.
Trump has been given almost unrestricted access to Americans, allowing everyone to be exposed to his rhetoric.
Such voters are nostalgic for the country they lived in 50 years ago, when non-Hispanic whites made up more than 83 percent of the population.
Today, their share has shrunk to 62 percent as demographic change has transformed the United States into a nation where others have a shot at power.
Trump, who has become infamous for his anti-Latino and Islamophobic views, was blamed for fueling the radical right, and encouraging more hateful views.
And to prove just how much the presidential candidate resonates with KKK members, here s a video of Trump being confronted about an endorsement from KKK Great Wizard David Duke:Featured image is a screenshot