On Tuesday night, Fox News blowhard and right-wing messiah Bill O Reilly made it very clear that Republicans primary focus comes down to one thing: the white-dominated power structure, and those dastardly liberals, he says, are out to destroy it.O Reilly says that liberals want to get rid of the Electoral College which has twice in recent memory allowed someone completely unqualified to assume office despite losing the popular vote because they want power taken away from the white establishment.
The left in America is demanding that the Electoral College system put into place in 1787 be scrapped.
But there is a hidden reason for this, O Reilly said, adding that voting patterns reveal that most minority votes go to the Democratic Party.
This is unsurprising to anyone who pays attention to the way Republicans talk about Muslims, Hispanics, women, African-Americans, and pretty much anyone whose skin tone is darker than a piece of classroom chalk.
But to O Reilly, it s a conspiracy against white people a conspiracy to silence white rural voters by counting each and every person s vote equally, no matter where they live: Very few commentators will tell you that the heart of liberalism in America today is based on race.
It permeates almost every issue.
That white men have set up a system of oppression.
That system must be destroyed.
O Reilly may scorn the idea, but white men really have set up a system of oppression.
Time magazine notes that the Electoral College largely exists to benefit white slave owners in the south:At the Philadelphia convention, the visionary Pennsylvanian James Wilson proposed direct national election of the president.
But the savvy Virginian James Madison responded that such a system would prove unacceptable to the South: The right of suffrage was much more diffusive [i.e., extensive] in the Northern than the Southern States; and the latter could have no influence in the election on the score of Negroes.
In other words, in a direct election system, the North would outnumber the South, whose many slaves (more than half a million in all) of course could not vote.
But the Electoral College a prototype of which Madison proposed in this same speech instead let each southern state count its slaves, albeit with a two-fifths discount, in computing its share of the overall count.
[ ]Virginia emerged as the big winner the California of the Founding era with 12 out of a total of 91 electoral votes allocated by the Philadelphia Constitution, more than a quarter of the 46 needed to win an election in the first round.
After the 1800 census, Wilson s free state of Pennsylvania had 10% more free persons than Virginia, but got 20% fewer electoral votes.
Perversely, the more slaves Virginia (or any other slave state) bought or bred, the more electoral votes it would receive.
Were a slave state to free any blacks who then moved North, the state could actually lose electoral votes.If the system s pro-slavery tilt was not overwhelmingly obvious when the Constitution was ratified, it quickly became so.
For 32 of the Constitution s first 36 years, a white slaveholding Virginian occupied the presidency.
White men have largely abandoned the Democrats, and the left believes it s because of racism that they want to punish minorities, keep them down, O Reilly told his mindless audience, apparently forgetting that conservatives regularly list the ways they want to punish minorities and keep them down (voter I.D.
laws, for example).
Summing up: Left wants power taken away from the white establishment.
They want a profound change in the way America is run.
Taking voting power away from the white precincts is the quickest way to do that.
This isn t the first time O Reilly has made similar complaints.
In 2007, he and John McCain joined together to prattle on about how liberals want to break down the white Christian male power structure that has been long-established in our country.
In 2012, he complained to Megyn Kelly that the white establishment is now the minority.
O Reilly s latest rant was so stupid that the typically nonsensical and terrible SooperMexican over at RightScoop put him on blast:Is that really what conservatism is conserving?
White establishment power?
Here I thought it was about free markets, free people, and getting the government out of our way.
Well, I feel stupid.
I wish the GOP had mentioned this earlier.Well darn.
As you probably know, I m a minority conservative, and I really hate and despise how the left makes all politics about racial identity, as I wrote here.
But the age of Trump makes it sound like conservatism is being redefined as pro-white identity politics.
This can t be a coincidence, right?Watch O Reilly s latest racist rant below:Featured image via screengrab