The list of pathetic sore losers and RINO s in the GOP who have said they won t support Trump seemed to be growing longer and longer after the private, inappropriate comments Trump made 11 years ago became public.
After last night s debate, I wonder how many of them wish they could take it back.
Trump handled the discussion about what he called embarrassing behavior better than most of us expected.
We all make mistakes.
He was a private citizen who was having some boy talk on a bus.
He used some bad words and regrets it.
He never laid a hand on anyone, but the sore losers who Trump crushed in the primaries and other RINO s like Mitt Romney are using this opportunity to destroy Trump s chances at winning while elevating Hillary s. Unlike the Dems, who surround and shield members of their party to the end, these turncoats Republicans are not team players Sam Clovis, co-chairman of Donald Trump s presidential campaign, reviewed Sunday night s second presidential debate on Monday morning s Breitbart News Daily with SiriusXM host Alex Marlow.
I thought we did really well, said Clovis.
I thought the first 15 minutes or so were pretty much as predicted, a little rocky, to be honest, but I think from that moment on, I don t think there s any question who was in charge, and I think he really had Mrs. Clinton on the defensive for most of the rest of the debate.
Clovis disputed the notion that Clinton came to the debate to talk about the issues.
She s done everything she can to avoid the issues, he said, because her tax plan sucks.
Her record in foreign policy sucks.
She has no love for the military.
She s a criminal, and she ought to be in prison.
I mean, I m just being blunt: this is a woman who ought to be in prison right now.
If you or I had done what she has done, we would be in handcuffs in an orange suit, and we would be in a maximum security federal prison right now.
Clovis said it was absolute nonsense to construe Trump s call for a special prosecutor during the debate as a banana republic-style threat to jail his political opponent.
Director Comey has already come out and said she essentially lied to the FBI, he noted.
Martha Stewart lied to the FBI, and she went to prison.
If Hillary Clinton lied to the FBI, she ought to be prosecuted.
And right now, what we have is, we have a deal struck by the Clinton campaign with the Obama administration, and I think if push comes to shove, I think Obama will pardon her before this thing gets out of hand because if they think anything is going to reveal that she has committed more criminal acts than she already has, then I think he ll pardon her.
I really do.
I think this is in the works.
And I don t think the American people are really fooled by this.
What we re talking about is establishing the rule of law, and the rule of law applies to everyone.
That includes the former secretary of state, Clovis declared.Marlow asked how the Trump campaign planned to strategize around the intense media focus on his hot mic lewd remarks, considering that even the Republican Party is now destroying Donald Trump over these comments.
Well, I think again it goes to the substance of what we have is, we have a vulnerability in the campaign, Clovis replied, adding, This is a vulnerability.
Let s make no mistake.
Let s be honest about this.
We have a situation here, comments that were made 11 years ago.
They were recorded, and they ve come back to haunt the candidate.
The candidate has apologized for those remarks.
And I think what it goes to is the fact that they don t want to focus on policy.
They don t want to focus on the substance of the issues because the establishments of the Republican Party and the Democrat Party writ large are deeply threatened by a populist movement in this country.
I really think this is why you see these weak-kneed, lily-livered Republicans out here I have other words, but I can t use them on the radio that go to the heart of what I think is a despicable display of cowardice on the part of the Republican Party over this whole issue.
We don t need to defend the comments.
I think the comments were bad, and frankly, if my son had said something like that, I d have taken him back to the woodshed.
I don t have any problems talking about that and saying that because that s what I think of the comments.
The other side of it is, the comments aren t what we re after.
What we re after is the substance of who s going to lead this country.
And that s what we ought to be focused on because the alternative of having Hillary Clinton as President of the United States is just too terrible to contemplate.
Breitbart News