Donald Trump s surrogates are desperately trying to defend him after he leveled some pretty serious charges at President Obama based on what he read in a far-Right propaganda rag.
According to The Donald, President Obama ordered the wires at Trump Tower tapped.
He provided no evidence, of course, but White House officials confirm that The Donald got his information from Breitbart.
However, it doesn t seem that his surrogates want to admit where he gets what he thinks are facts.On Monday, Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders did her best to defend Trump.
The president firmly believes the Obama administration may have tapped into the phones at Trump Tower, Sanders told Today anchor Savannah Guthrie.
And is that based on media reports?
Guthrie asked, referencing the Breitbart piece that had been circulating among Trump s staff just before his Twitter outburst.
This is something we should look into, we d like to know for sure, Sanders replied.
Look, the media has been extremely dismissive of this reporting and this potential story, while all the while being very happy to jump on all of the false attacks that have been launched at this president over the last six months.
Just so we re clear on this one, specific point is his information, that President Obama tapped his phone, based solely on something he read in the media?
Guthrie pressed.
Look, I haven t had the chance to have that conversation directly with the president, Sanders said.
He s got much higher classification than I [do], so he may have access to the documents that I don t know about.
But I do know that we take this very seriously, and we think it should be thoroughly reviewed and investigated.
But, of course, level of classification does not matter because the information came from a report by an outlet that serves as the platform for the alt-right (alt-right is the soft term for Nazis ) according to White House chief strategist Steve Bannon when he was head honcho of the publication.
Worse yet, the claim was based on the words of a known conspiracy theorist who now admits he can t back his allegations.
But, like Trump, he says he really wants to know if Obama did tap Trump Tower s wires.
Despite the complete lack of evidence, Trump demanded that Republicans investigate Obama and they say they will.
Anything to distract from the very real problem of the Trump administration s troubling ties with Russia, right?Watch the exchange below: Is that the source of this information?
Strictly from media reports & not from any other source?
@savannahguthrie asks @SarahHuckabee pic.twitter.com/8JKCVBwzc6 TODAY (@TODAYshow) March 6, 2017Featured image via screengrab