New Hampshire republican Kyle Tasker resigned from the state House of Representatives after he was arrested on three felony drug charges, along with charges of soliciting a minor for sex.According to NECN, Tasker sent pornographic videos and messages to an undercover officer, who was posing as a 14-year-old girl online.Over the course of a six-week long investigation, police say the New Hampshire lawmaker offered the undercover cop drugs and asked for sexual favors.Some of Tasker s texts were written during committee meetings and sent from the state house.During an interview with NECN, Nottingham Police Chief Gunnar Foss said the investigation began after police became aware that Tasker had attempted to contact a minor online.
We had information that he was attempting to contact a 14-year-old girl online, and that kicked in the Internet Crimes Against Children team.
They were monitoring a lot of his stuff, and found out through his communications that there was a significant amount of drugs at his home.
Tasker was arrested on March 1, and faces felony charges for the attempted solicitation of a minor.He is also facing three felony-level drug charges, after a search of his home turned up marijuana, hallucinogenic mushrooms and the prescription drug Suboxone.
Police say the drugs were packaged for sale.Before his arrest, Tasker was a member of the state legislature s Committee on Children and Family Law, described as a body of lawmakers which deals with all matters relating to children and youth, their rights, obligations, and protection and the application of criminal laws and sentencing for children.
Tasker is the same New Hampshire lawmaker who got national attention in 2012, after he dropped a loaded gun during a meeting of the House Criminal Justice and Public Safety Committee.In 2014, he made a series of offensive Facebook posts, which also drew national criticism.In one post Tasker suggested that he should be allowed to join the Black Caucus because he likes rap music.He also said he wished he could join a white caucus of state legislators.
In another post he made light of domestic violence, by joking about eating battered women.
When asked about Tasker s arrest, some New Hampshire lawmakers said they were not at all surprised by the drug charges, claiming that he often came to meetings smelling of pot and alcohol.When asked if Tasker s behavior was a poor reflection on state lawmakers, however, representatives placed the burden on the voters who elected him three times.
We don t elect them, we try to do the best we can when they get here, said republican House Speaker Shawn Jasper.He added Know who you are voting for, know their history, what they ve been doing and saying.
Here s more on this story from NECN.
Featured image via video screen capture from NECN