This is why we love the Notorious RBG.Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has been on the bench for a long time.
Usually the Justices of the high court stay out of presidential politics, but this is no ordinary election and Ginsburg isn t going to stay quiet when the fate of the country hangs in the balance.
I can t imagine what this place would be I can t imagine what the country would be with Donald Trump as our president, Ginsburg told the New York Times in an interview published on Monday.And then she doubled down during an interview with CNN that same day.
He is a faker.
He has no consistency about him.
He says whatever comes into his head at the moment.
He really has an ego.
How has he gotten away with not turning over his tax returns?
The press seems to be very gentle with him on that.
Indeed, the media has largely ignored Trump s refusal to release his tax returns unlike the way they hounded Mitt Romney four years ago.The Washington Post and the New York Times are both whining about Ginsburg s remarks.
Both editorial boards are calling for her to stop name-calling and think she should stop talking all together.The hypocrisy here is stunning.
Donald Trump has said far worse things on the campaign trail then Ginsburg has in these two interviews, but I don t recall seeing either editorial board telling the Republican nominee to shut his mouth.
Furthermore, it s not exactly unprecedented for Supreme Court Justices to get involved in presidential politics.
I seem to recall a certain 5-4 ruling the high court made in 2000 that handed George W. Bush the presidential election even though it was totally unprecedented for the Supreme Court to decide such a contest.
The conservative judges ruled that Florida should not count the votes in a race that was incredibly close and could have gone either way if we had just allowed the democratic process to unfold.
The Supreme Court should have stayed out of it then.Regardless, when Donald Trump heard that Ginsburg humiliated his sorry ass he exploded on Twitter.
Justice Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme Court has embarrassed all by making very dumb political statements about me, he whined.
Her mind is shot resign!
Justice Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme Court has embarrassed all by making very dumb political statements about me.
Her mind is shot resign!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 13, 2016Trump even complained to the New York Times, which happily gave Trump the platform to tell a woman to shut her mouth.
I think it s highly inappropriate that a United States Supreme Court judge gets involved in a political campaign, frankly.
I think it s a disgrace to the court and I think she should apologize to the court.
I couldn t believe it when I saw it.
It s so beneath the court for her to be making statements like that.
It only energizes my base even more.
And I would hope that she would get off the court as soon as possible.
Sorry, Donald.
But Justice Ginsburg isn t retiring any time soon.
In fact, she d probably make sure she stays put if you somehow become president just to spite you.The bottom line here is that Ruth Bader Ginsburg is not just a Supreme Court Justice, she s a citizen of this country with a right to free speech just like everyone else.
This is a critical election at a momentous time in this country and Ginsburg clearly felt the need to speak up.
It s hard to believe that if these remarks had come from one of her male colleagues that the Post and the Times would be throwing such a hissy fit over it.
Trump is spewing unprecedented hate and vitriol in a presidential election, but these two newspapers are complaining about Ginsburg commenting about it.
There s something seriously wrong with that.Featured Image: Branden Camp/Getty Images