Things really aren t looking too great for Donald Trump s charity foundation.
With recent developments prohibiting the Trump Foundation from soliciting funds in New York state, it s now looking like a good majority of states may be following suit.The Trump Foundation has also been being looked at by the Attorney General for how it is getting and spending funds, especially after what happen with veterans organizations earlier this year.According to The Daily Beast: To make matters worse for the Trump Foundation, the probe may not be limited to New York: Charity experts and lawyers tell The Daily Beast that the attorneys general of other states may soon get involved in a long, drawn-out process.All major charities are required to register with 41 different states across the nation in order to individually request permission to fundraise.
When Trump raised money for veterans, he may have broken the rules in dozens of states.
The president of the National Committee for Responsible Philanthropy, Aaron Dorfman, stated: The Trump Foundation would be required to file similar paperwork with the attorneys generals of nearly every other state, and they could all take similar action.
It is likely that other states will follow suit and they will be issued cease and desist orders denying them fundraising privileges in other states.
That is the most likely next step.
This is not good news for Trump who keeps trying to pivot to slamming Hillary Clinton s Clinton Foundation.
You know, the one that helps fight AIDS in nations globally.Trump, of course, likes to pretend that he s holier than thou, which might explain why Trump Foundation money was used to buy pictures of, well, himself.And according to Real Clear Politics: From 2011 through 2014, Trump harnessed his eponymous foundation to send at least $286,000 to influential conservative or policy groups, a RealClearPolitics review of the foundation s tax filings found.
In many cases, this flow of money corresponded to prime speaking slots or endorsements that aided Trump as he sought to recast himself as a plausible Republican candidate for president.
Finding out Trump is a scam artist using a shell charity with his same name really should come as no surprise.
Especially to fund his political ambitions of grandeur.
However, it will be interesting to see how this story develops as the November election draws nearer.Featured Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images