With the news that there may be some undiscovered emails that may or may not be pertinent to anything going on with Hillary Clinton, it only leaves many to speculate what might be in them.One person who is taking his best guess at what a damaging email may look like from Hillary comes from none other than Saturday Night Live co-head writer Chris Kelly.
He reveals what he thinks could actually be revealed to make the election close, or worse yet, make Hillary lose.You ll notice a stunning similarity to Hillary s opposition as you read Kelly s best guess at an email: Dear Huma,Psst.
Just wanted to let you know I think climate change is fake.
Also, women should be punished for abortions.
Plus, Mexicans are rapists and criminals, and Muslims (all of them) should be treated like terrorists.
Oh, and get this: I haven t paid taxes in years.
Like, almost no taxes at all.
Alright, gotta run, Tim Kaine wants to chat about how conversion therapy is good.
And when we re done, I m gonna grab him by the cock, which I m allowed to do because I m famous.You re a 4 at best,HillaryP.S.
What day do I have to be in court for my child rape thing again?
Hillary's emails would literally have to say this for it to be a close call.
pic.twitter.com/i46k3XeArh Chris Kelly (@imchriskelly) October 31, 2016That s right, exactly word for word can be substituted in as exactly who Donald Trump and Mike Pence actually are.
Scary, right?
We re living in a nation where people would actually vote for people like that.
And people are because apparently people either agree with those sentiments or don t care.Now, if Hillary were to actually have written those things, she would undoubtedly be condemned for all eternity.
However, Trump?
Nope.
He still has support even though he shouldn t.This satirical email and sentiment would be funny if it weren t so damn true, because if Hillary were even half as bad as Trump, she wouldn t stand a chance.Vote blue on November 8th like your life depends on it, because it just may.Featured Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images