Kansas is bleeding money and jobs and Governor Sam Brownback doesn t want the people to know how devastating his economic policies have been.In 2011, the Tea Party governor was so confident that his economic policy of massive tax cuts for the wealthy and reduced spending would turn Kansas into an economic powerhouse that he created a special group charged with writing reports on the results.But Brownback s experiment has failed so spectacularly that the state is billions of dollars in debt, education funding is suffering, and job growth is pathetic.
So pathetic that Kansas is losing more jobs than it has gained.In January, Brownback couldn t handle a report put together by his group that admitted Kansas sometimes was faring worse than it had before Brownback became governor, so he made every effort to cover it up.In other words, he censored it because his group was supposed to report that the economy is soaring, not falling to the ground like a rock.Kansas Center for Economic Growth executive director Heidi Holliday blasted Brownback for killing the report.
He specifically asked the council to hold him accountable through rigorous performance metrics.
Five years later, the metrics clearly show his tax experiment has failed while business leaders and local chambers of commerce across the state openly ask him to change course.
In fact, Brownback is so desperate to keep the people of Kansas from calling for tarring and feathering him in a public square that he is turning to the federal government.
Instead of writing their own independent reports, the group is now restricted to getting their information from the Federal Reserve, which conservatives often claim is responsible whenever economic issues occur.That particularly surprised Kansas House Minority Leader Tom Burroughs, who was quick to point out the irony.
The missed revenue marks, missed job reports, missed projections shed light on his failed policies.
I kind of find it a little ironic they chose to go to a federal government report after they blamed President Obama for our economic problems.
Governor Brownback s economic experiment is a complete failure and a joke.
Kansas economy is now in shambles and Republicans have no one to blame but themselves.
They believed that by implementing an extreme conservative fiscal policy without interference from Democrats that they would prove trickle-down economics as a total success.
Instead, it failed miserably and now they want to censor any results from being reported.By all rights, Brownback should have ousted by voters in 2014.
But now Kansas is stuck with him and his failed policies for at least another two years.
Meanwhile, the wealthy are laughing all the way to the bank.Featured image via Liberalbias.com