The full economic impact of the horrific new anti-gay law passed by North Carolina s bigoted legislature will not be known for quite some time, but we are already seeing numerous ways that the geniuses who place hatred over the needs and the good of the people are damaging their state.North Carolina s Public Facilities Privacy and Security Act, something that came into existence as a response to the city of Charlotte s attempt to create a fair and equal environment for all citizens, including transgender individuals, by granting the LGBT community equal rights pertaining to public accommodations as the rest of the world enjoys, nullifies the Charlotte ordinance and bans localities from expanding protections for the LGBT community.
It also requires everyone to use bathrooms corresponding to their gender at birth.This horrific and blatant attempt to deprive a segment of the population of equal rights has not only angered the public, but the Obama administration as well.
At this moment, the Justice Department is in the process of determining if the law violates federal civil rights statutes.
If it does, the state could lose billions (with a B) of dollars that would otherwise go to fixing highways, education, and housing funding.Cities and states have banned taxpayer-funded travel to North Carolina and production companies have left the state over the law, depriving the state of tax dollars and a boost to local economies where filming took place.
Recently, Lionsgate Films canceled filming of a new Hulu show and moved production to Canada.In short, yes.
On Tuesday, PayPal announced that it has withdrawn plans for a new blogal operations center in Charlotte the city that attempted to be inclusive in the first place that would have employed 400 people in skilled jobs.
The new center was announced just weeks ago.
In the short time since then, legislation has been abruptly enacted by the State of North Carolina that invalidates protections of the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender citizens and denies these members of our community equal rights under the law, PayPal said in a statement.
Our decision is a clear and unambiguous one.
But we do regret that we will not have the opportunity to be a part of the Charlotte community and to count as colleagues the skilled and talented people of the region.
As a company that is committed to the principle that everyone deserves to live without fear of discrimination simply for being who they are, becoming an employer in North Carolina, where members of our teams will not have equal rights under the law, is simply untenable.
The company says the new law perpetuates discrimination and it violates the values and principles that are at the core of PayPal s mission and culture, leaving them unable to open a center in the state.
PayPal is in the process of determining where the new location will be, and says it regrets not having the opportunity to be part of the Charlotte community.
They remain committed, however, to working with the LGBT community in North Carolina to overturn this discriminatory legislation, alongside all those who are committed to equality.
PayPal is not the first to refuse to do business in North Carolina, nor will they be the last.
This new law will ultimately be damaging to the state, and everyday people will be the ones who are hurt the most.Featured image via Getty/PhillyMag