The judicial branch of our government is getting sick and tired of Donald Trump s tirades.After Trump signed an unconstitutional executive order banning travelers from seven countries from entering the United States, worldwide chaos ensued.Thousands of people were detained and denied their rights as attorneys raced to their rescue.
A federal judge then blocked the order and Trump has been attacking U.S. District Court Judge James Robart ever since.The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017What is our country coming to when a judge can halt a Homeland Security travel ban and anyone, even with bad intentions, can come into U.S.?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017Because the ban was lifted by a judge, many very bad and dangerous people may be pouring into our country.
A terrible decision Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017The judge opens up our country to potential terrorists and others that do not have our best interests at heart.
Bad people are very happy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 5, 2017Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril.
If something happens blame him and court system.
People pouring in.
Bad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 5, 2017If the U.S. does not win this case as it so obviously should, we can never have the security and safety to which we are entitled.
Politics!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017Trump has literally been whining about Judge Robarts decision for over a week and acts like judges aren t allowed to act as a check and balance against the executive branch.And his behavior toward Robarts has angered one federal judge so much that he is calling Trump s legitimacy into a question, which is a yuuuge deal.Federal District Judge Dan Polster explained to the Cleveland Anti-Defamation League on Wednesday and explained that checks and balances exist because the Founding Fathers were fearful of a president who might want to be a king or dictator, which is exactly how Trump is acting.Polster continued by telling the audience that he doesn t think any federal judge will be intimidated by Trump because they took an oath to support and defend the Constitution and it means a lot and I think that oath means even more today.
With that said, Polster believes Trump undermined his legitimacy by attacking the judicial branch for halting the executive order.
This is serious business, because you start calling into question the legitimacy of someone, that undermines the whole system, all right?
I think to say it publicly, that s his right.
But it calls into question, and some might even say forfeits, his or her own legitimacy.
So I ll leave it at that.
It s an important question, but that s how I feel.
When you call into question the legitimacy of a federal district court judge, that s a line that shouldn t be crossed.
And there you have it.
Trump s attacks on our judicial branch are literally starting to backfire on him as judges start to speak out publicly against him.
While Trump has the right to disagree with judges, personally attacking them disgraces the office he holds and diminishes the power of the executive branch.
It makes Trump s position look weak and desperate.
And it could affect the decisions judges make in the future on executive orders and laws Trump signs.
In short, trying to bully judges is not a good idea.Read more:Featured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images