The NRA has a new favorite toy, but there are no bullets involved except maybe the bullet points they include in their scripts.
Dana Loesch has transformed herself from useful Fox News idiot to darling of the Second Amendment, and the NRA is more than happy to put her stern but beautiful face on camera.Earlier this year, Loesch and the NRA put out a video recruiting ad they called The Clenched Fist of Truth.
It accused the left of assassinating real news and using wedge issues like homophobia, racism, and sexism to stifle the views of conservative Americans.
In the video, schoolchildren are depicted on a playground just before Loesch says they re being indoctrinated to believe Trump is another Hitler.
In short, it s disgusting.
Civil rights activist DeRay McKesson summed it up:This NRA ad is an open call to violence to protect white supremacy.
If I made a video like this, I'd be in jail.
pic.twitter.com/LD65yMUMVn deray mckesson (@deray) June 29, 2017But the backlash was short-lived, and in an environment as rich with news as the Trump era, it was quickly forgotten, despite its gross, dangerous message.Now Dana and the NRA are back with a new ad, equally violent, this time aimed at the New York Times.
Loesch carefully phrases her threats as a shot across the proverbial bow of the Times, so as to avoid being accused of outright incitement.
But the accusations in the video mirror perfectly the paranoia, suspicion, and resentment of Trump fans who want to believe that news they don t like is fake.
And the final phrase in the video We re coming for you is as menacing as anything else the NRA has done.In a near-derailing of the conversation, a few pundits misheard Loesch s use of the word Fisk (a verb-ing of the last name of a writer considered easily debunked by right-wingers who disagree with him), thinking instead that she had said fist.
If that seems like a silly thing to get hung up on, the context clears it up:We re going to fisk the New York Times and find out just what deep rich means to this old gray hag.If you thought that said fist, the meaning is changed considerably.
Their mistake wasn t just one of hearing, though the tweet from the NRA accompanying the video uses the hashtag #ClenchedFistOfTruth.
The mistake is understandable.
Loesch didn t think so: She blew up at a few notable tweeters who made the error.The new, Orwellian video says, in part:We ve had it with your constant protection of your Democrat overlords, your refusal to acknowledge any truth that upsets the fragile construct that you believe is real life.Somebody is confused about what s real and what s not and it s not the New York Times.Watch the video here:.
@DLoesch has a message for the @nytimes: We're coming for you.
One non-#fakenews story is not enough.
#NRA #ClenchedFistofTruth pic.twitter.com/Hm1QkJi5Tp NRATV (@NRATV) August 3, 2017Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images