An unfortunate part of modern-day politics is the fact that money is far too involved in our elections.
Yet, until Citizens United and big money is no longer allowed in elections, it s a necessary evil.
Even President Obama held and still holds fundraisers.
Another such fundraiser was thrown for Hillary Clinton by George Clooney and his wife Amal, and even Clooney himself said the price of attending, alongside the practice itself, is obscene.
Clinton s rival in the Democratic race, Sen. Bernie Sanders, has definitely shown that it may not be necessary to hold such big money fundraisers so long as you have enough grassroots support behind you.
So, whether or not he wins the nomination, his legacy will be an example of things to come in the future, and how elections should be conducted as far as raising funds.
But until Citizens United is overturned, and until we can get big money out of elections, there will be fundraisers.
It is what it is.
It s the nature of the beast.However, with this latest fundraiser thrown by the Clooneys came a counter-fundraiser thrown by Clooney s neighbor Howard Gold, whose family founded the 99 Cents Only chain of stores.
Part of the fundraiser/protest was a moment when the crowd threw money at Hillary s motorcade as it passed by.And it was very real money that, according to Dan Merica of CNN, was $1000 withdrawn by Howard Gold himself.The money was real.
And was withdrawn from a bank today by Howard Gold, the Sanders counter fundraiser host.
https://t.co/CMRGr7RBJQ Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) April 17, 2016It seems, however, that these protesters didn t throw the money on Clinton, but rather her Secret Service agents:Funny part about this: The car that was showered the most was full of Secret Service agents, not Clinton.
https://t.co/CMRGr7RBJQ Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) April 17, 2016Yet, the point was still clearly made.The Clooneys have every right to hold fundraisers for their candidate of choice, just as the protesters have every right to speak up in dissent of big money fundraisers.
And as so long as they are invited, as they were by Gold, and not trespassing on private property, more of these protests are bound to pop up as the election heats up towards a potential Democratic nominee.This has definitely been an entertaining election cycle to say the least.
Watch the video here of the money being thrown:Sanders supporters outside Clinton s Clooney fundraiser in LA shower her motorcade in $1,000.
pic.twitter.com/ivbu024IcG Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) April 17, 2016Featured image via video screen capture