A white Idaho teen was facing life in prison for a horrific sexual attack on a black teammate with mental disabilities that makes the butter rape scene in Last Tango in Paris seem downright tame.On October 23, 2015, 17-year-old John R.K. Howard and two teammates, Tanner Ward and an unnamed 16-year-old student, pretended to give their African-American teammate a hug, then held him down and raped him with a coat hanger in the locker room.
According to a lawsuit filed by the victim s mother, this is the culmination of months of race-based harassment.
KTVB reports:According to prosecutors, the sexual assault happened Oct. 23, 2015 in the high school locker room.
The lawsuit describes one teammate pretending to offer the victim a hug, then holding him down as another boy inserted a coat hanger into his rectum.
A third attacker then kicked the coat hanger several times, forcing it farther into the victim s body and causing rectal injuries that required treatment at a hospital, lawyers say.
The Plaintiff screamed and cried out but no staff member came to his assistance or even attempted to investigate the clamor from within the locker room, attorneys R. Keith Roark and E. Lee Schlender wrote in the filing.The attorney general s office filed charges against three students in March after a months-long investigation.
John R. K. Howard and Tanner Ward are both charged as adults with forcible sexual penetration, and could face up to life in prison if convicted.
The third student is charged as a juvenile.According to the lawsuit, the victim was regularly called Kool-Aid, chicken-eater, watermelon, and the classic n*gger by teammates for the better part of the year leading up to the attack.
Several teammates would regularly jump on the victim s back and hump him during practice and he was forced to endure painful wedgies.
Howard personally posted a Confederate flag on the victim s Facebook profile and demanded he learn and recite the song, Moonman Notorious KKK, which makes a reference to lynching.
They even drew this adorable little picture of him sitting in the back of a bus:On Friday, Howard whom the lawsuit notes is a relative of prominent individuals in the community managed to escape jail time and even registering as a sex offender by pleading guilty to a lesser crime.
We don t believe it s appropriate for Mr. Howard to suffer the consequences of a sex offender, Deputy Attorney General Casey Hemmer said of the attack, noting that he doesn t feel the egregious attack was a sex crime no matter how much coat hanger rape was involved.
But he still needs to be held accountable.
After completing 300 hours of community service, Howard will likely be able to have his conviction dismissed and he will be allowed to maintain his innocence despite the evidence against him.
In other words, not only does he manage to avoid any form of actual punishment, but he can now torment his victim by telling everyone that he is innocent of the crime and nothing can be done about it.
Now that s accountability right there!Watch a report on the attack below:Featured image via screengrab