Bravo for Judicial Watch!
What would we do without them-they have pushed for the truth on so many things about Benghazi but other things that have happened during the lawless Obama years.
Thanks to Judicial Watch for finally getting to the bottom of this!Judicial Watch Docs Reveal Obama Admin KNEW Al Qaeda Terrorists Planned Benghazi 10 Days In Advance (Washington, DC) Judicial Watch announced today that it obtained more than 100 pages of previously classified Secret documents from the Department of Defense (DOD)and the Department of State revealing that DOD almost immediately reported that the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi was committed by the al Qaeda and Muslim Brotherhood-linked Brigades of the Captive Omar Abdul Rahman (BCOAR), and had been planned at least 10 days in advance.
Rahman is known as the Blind Sheikh, and is serving life in prison for his involvement in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and other terrorist acts.
The new documents also provide the first official confirmation that shows the U.S. government was aware of arms shipments from Benghazi to Syria.
The documents also include an August 2012 analysis warning of the rise of ISIS and the predicted failure of the Obama policy of regime change in Syria.The documents were released in response to a court order in accordance with a May 15, 2014, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) lawsuit filed against both the DOD and State Department seeking communications between the two agencies and congressional leaders on matters related to the activities of any agency or department of the U.S. government at the Special Mission Compound and/or classified annex in Benghazi.
Spelling and punctuation is duplicated in this release without corrections.A Defense Department document from the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), dated September 12, 2012, the day after the Benghazi attack, details that the attack on the compound had been carefully planned by the BOCAR terrorist group to kill as many Americans as possible.
The document was sent to then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then-Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Obama White House National Security Council.
The heavily redacted Defense Department information report says that the attack on the Benghazi facility was planned and executed by The Brigades of the Captive Omar Abdul Rahman (BCOAR).
The group subscribes to AQ ideologies: Read more: Judicial Watch