Hillary doesn t recall saying it, but Bill s campaign manager, Paul Fray clearly remembers her saying it.
Just another Hillary lie what different does it make?
Hillary Clinton is fighting a rearguard action to avoid further damage to her standing with the crucial Jewish vote in her campaign for a Senate seat after a claim that she once used an ethnic insult against one of Bill Clinton s aides.A book out today claims that 26 years ago she called Paul Fray, her husband s campaign manager at the time, a fucking Jew bastard .Mrs Clinton denied the allegation and pressed the president into supporting her, but the author, Jerry Oppenheimer, said: Three witnesses have now publicly acknowledged that she said it.
I have never said anything like that, ever, Mrs Clinton said.
I have in the past certainly, you know maybe, called somebody a name.
But I have never used an ethnic, racial, anti-Semitic, bigoted, discriminatory, prejudiced, accusation against anybody.
I ve never done it.
I ve never thought it.
Mr Clinton, who was trying to bring about a Middle East peace deal at Camp David, backed her up.
I was there on election night in 1974 and the charge is simply not true, he said.
She might have called him a bastard, I wouldn t rule that out.
She s never claimed that she was pure on profanity.
But I ve never heard her tell a joke with an ethnic connotation.
She s so fanatic about it.
It s not in her.
Referring to a vast rightwing conspiracy in previous elections, he said: This is part of a pattern.
They couldn t defeat me politically and they can t defeat her politically so they go after us personally.
Accounts of the dispute on election night 1974, when Mr Clinton failed to win a congressional seat representing Arkansas, have appeared before without the ethnic insult.Those present at the inquest into the defeat were Mr Clinton, his then-girlfriend Hillary, his campaign manager Paul Fray, and Mr Fray s wife, Mary Lee.
Neill McDonald, a campaign worker, was just outside the room and claims to have heard everything.The Frays and Mr McDonald are the three witnesses on whom Mr Oppenheimer, a former reporter on the National Inquirer tabloid, relies for the passage in his book State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton.Mr Fray, 57, said yesterday: I was a little defensive about it.
I looked to the floor thinking How do I respond?
I didn t mind being called a son-of-a-bitch, but when it came to attacking my culture, that s a whole nother ballgame.
You ve got to understand it was the heat of the moment.
We knew we had lost.
It was a case of people lashing out at one another and it just got to that point.
Mr Fray is actually a Southern Baptist but says that he is one-eighth Jewish through his great-grandfather.Mrs Fray said that her husband s recollection of the meeting, which lasted about an hour, was accurate.
Mr McDonald said: I don t know what provoked it or what.
I just remember that one little comment.
Via: The Guardian