Ben Stein is on a Trump-bashing spree again, and it s even more amazing than before.
Just a week after he blasted the Republican front runner s sheer idiocy in economics, Stein gave The Donald an epic tongue-lashing for his non-stop complaining about losing Colorado to his rival Ted Cruz.In an interview with Neil Cavuto on Tuesday afternoon, Stein didn t bother to mince his words as he condemned Trump for all of his whiny bitchiness after losing every single one of Colorado s delegates.
Calling Trump a big sulking baby , Stein hilariously pointed out that it was Trump s own fault for not reading the state s rules on the delegate process.While Trump s campaign b*tched and moaned about the Gestapo tactics that had supposedly caused Trump to suffer such a humiliating loss, Stein insisted that nothing of the sort had happened.
Colorado s delegates had not been stolen, the system was not crooked or rigged, or anything other sorry excuse that Trump is claiming.
Trump just sucks, and wasn t smart enough to read the rules beforehand.
Stein mocked the ignorant business mogul: He didn t have one paid staffer on the ground.
I assume he knows how to read.
He s supposed to be so rich.
Can t he hire someone to read the rules?
What a great point.
You can watch Stein s hilarious Trump attack below:To say that Stein likes bashing Trump is an understatement he clearly loves it.
Last month, Stein described Trump as a big sulking baby in a previous appearance on Cavuto s show, and he did so again last week.
It looks like Stein has been holding his true feelings about Trump in for a long time, and is just getting started.But in all seriousness, Stein is terrified of the possibility of President Trump.
In an interview with CNN, the conservative economist confessed that although he s been a life-long Republican voter, he would rather vote for a Democrat than see America s economy become destroyed under The Donald.
Stein said: In all of my years as an economist, which is roughly 50 years, I ve never seen such nonsense as we just heard from Mr. Trump.
And it breaks my heart, it makes me want to cry because I m Republican, I ve never voted for a Democrat, and to think the guy who s our likely standard bearer has such nonsensical ideas on every single aspect of the economy is just breathtakingly horrible.
Featured image via Imeh Akpanudosen / Getty Images