A Tennessee man did what thousands of ammosexuals across the nation do on a regular basis paranoid that someone somewhere is out to get him, he brought an assault rifle and a loaded handgun with him to church on Easter Sunday.The NRA regularly urges gun owners to be vigilant and ready to stand up to any and all threats real or perceived in the great nation of Amerikastan.
Citing unspecified and mostly nonexistent threats, the Second Amendment warriors say that ammosexuals should pack heat wherever they go just in case a bad guy with a gun shows his dirty, rotten, face.
Unfortunately, far too many people fall for the right-wing group s propaganda and one such man is Marcus Donald, 31, of Memphis.Donald was arrested on Sunday after he attempted to enter Easter services at a Baptist church.
Like many scared white men across the nation, Donald came to church locked and loaded.
For years, the Baptist Church has been pointing people to Christ with gun giveaways and calls for congregations to arm themselves.
While Donald s decision to show up to church armed to the teeth would normally be celebrated, there was one problem his skin color.Aside from the obvious exterior features Donald is black he seems like the typical NRA acolyte.
But that didn t stop police from showing up to arrest him.
The man came to church with a loaded 40 caliber Beretta in the pocket of his pants and a 300 Blackout Assault Rifle in a backpack, according to police.
Upon his arrest, he told law enforcement that people in society are a threat to him and that he must be vigilant.
If Donald had been white, he would have been permitted to walk straight into the church and endanger the 4,500 people present but a security guard stopped and disarmed him before he had a chance to make it through the doors.
We are thankful for the diligence of (our) security and the Memphis Police Department, Jim Barnwell, Bellevue Baptist Church, Director of Communication Services, told Fox 13.
This is a photo of Barnwell: What were the man s intentions?
We don t know, he said, a question that would likely have not been asked with regard to a white man.
We are thankful for our security people.
What a great job that they do.
Donald, like many people on the Right should be when they carry an assault rifle around town, to the grocery store, to church, or anywhere else where guns are not appropriate, was taken in for emergency commitment despite that Tennessee state law allows guns inside churches unless that property is being used for a school event or if signs are posted that weapons are banned the only time a mentally ill person can be taken into custody solely for being mentally, according to the Crisis Intervention Team at the University of Memphis.Barnwell says he is unaware if the church has a policy against guns, but his staff was very quick to call police when they saw a scary black man with a gun even though there was nothing aside from Donald s decision to carry loaded weapons around (once again, something crazy crackers do all the time) to indicate he is mentally ill.Police say he may not be cited for carrying the weapons around if he had a valid permit but it is interesting that he was accosted by police at all.
While this should be the standard reaction whenever anyone runs around with loaded firearms, it s not.
Had Donald been white, it would have just been another Sunday at church.Apparently.
the Second Amendment simply does not apply to people like Donald, who fail to pass the racial litmus test.Watch a report on the arrest below:Featured image via screengrab