According to White House Propaganda Minister Sean Spicer, it was completely fine that conservatives endlessly delayed President Obama s Supreme Court pick because it was his fourth term.
I know what you re thinking The White House press secretary couldn t possibly be so stupid that he would not know how many terms a President can legally serve (two) but it s true.
Spicer explained that the Democrats had a responsibility to confirm any qualified Supreme Court nominee of Trump s despite the campaign last year to deprive President Obama of the same courtesy.
According to Spicer, this is completely different because: There s never been a situation in which you had a fourth term, someone that late in an election cycle.
That had never occurred before.
And I think the Senate Republicans were very clear that we should wait and let the voters have a choice.
And that s exactly what happened.
Yes, fourth term.
We didn t even get the third term conservatives were sure Obama would have and the rest of us desperately wish he could have had and Spicer thinks he served for 16 years.
but he is right that the obstruction on the part of the GOP was unprecedented.
There really is something unique about the position Republican senators are taking with respect to the Scalia vacancy, law professor Jason Mazzone told The New York Times last year.
We really did not find any precedent for the idea, notwithstanding the Senate s very broad powers in this area, that a sitting president could be denied outright the authority to offer up a nominee who would receive evaluation through normal Senate processes.
There is a difference between the Senate rejecting, as it s quite entitled to do, a particular nominee on the merits, and the Senate taking the position that a president cannot exercise a constitutionally delegated power, he added.Trump s nominee isn t exactly qualified, as he has sided against the right of women to have available to them a full array of healthcare options, including a decision related to Hobby Lobby.
He has also stated that secular courts do not have the right to interfere with [the Christian] religion, even when businesses are practicing discrimination against women.Watch Spicer s latest f*ckup below:Featured image via screenshots