Whenever someone has been generous enough to give Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump the benefit of the doubt, they re always met with disappointment.
In a new video from The Young Turks, an African-American teen decided to volunteer at one of Trump s campaign offices in West Des Moines on Caucus Day to see if the candidate and his supporters were really as bad as the media makes them out to be.High school junior James Patterson explained his reasoning: I just wanted to make sure I wasn t critiquing out of ignorance.
I saw what he said on TV, but I also know how the media works, so I wanted to see it for myself.
As part of his volunteer work, Patterson spent his time making phone calls for Trump s campaign in an office of about 20 people.
It didn t take him long to see the obvious: he was the only black person.
Through his interactions with Trump s other supporters and volunteers over the course of the day, their overall attitude toward minorities became clear their racism is quiet, but it s still very much there.
Patterson said: Nobody used any racial slurs.
Nobody called me the n-word.
Nobody called me coon or anything, but it s, for lack of a better word, it s micro-aggressions.
You know, the way they look at you.
The way they talk about foreign policy and how they talk about oppressed groups when they don t think you re listening.
Overall, Patterson felt that Trump s supporters were normal people who have these resentments towards minorities, not able to voice them because thankfully we have policed language to the effect that that s not acceptable.
But they still hold these.
Patterson believes that supporting Trump is their way to show that.
Patterson also said that he found his fellow staffers and volunteers unnerving because while they were very friendly , he couldn t ignore the fact that they support Trump s disgusting rhetoric.
You can watch the young volunteer talk about his experience below:Overall, his stint as a Trump volunteer did not turn Patterson into a supporter.
He said, Sure, everybody has the right to say whatever they want.
However, there is something called respect.
And Trump is not respectful.
And there is something wrong with our society when we can glorify somebody openly that condemns minority groups like Mexicans and Muslims.Patterson feels that Trump has targeted his message to appeal to fundamentalist Christian, white, middle-class Americans that feel like their power is being taken because minorities are making strides.
He added: When he speaks to that, there s no way he can be pro-black or pro-Hispanic or pro-minority, and have that campaign.
Smart boy.
Patterson isn t the only one who has tried to give Trump a real chance and found the experience severely disheartening.
Last November, an African-American woman attended a Trump rally to see if The Donald was really as hateful, racist and horrible as she d heard.
It didn t take long before she realized she d made a horrible mistake and decided to turn her presence into a protest in the most beautiful way.Featured image is a screenshot