Republican Presidential front runner Donald Trump has one of the worst honesty ratings of any politician evaluated in the history of Politifact.
Yet, he has just launched an attack on Ted Cruz asking: How can Ted Cruz be an evangelical Christian when he lies so much and is so dishonest?
How can Ted Cruz be an Evangelical Christian when he lies so much and is so dishonest?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 12, 2016Firstly, asked by a candidate of integrity, or a voter, this is a totally acceptable question.
Ted Cruz and the entire Christian Conservative movement fly in the face of the teachings of Jesus.
Turning the other cheek, forgiveness, compassion, charity, community, the corrupting influence of wealth, the baselessness of individuality all of these teachings were totally abandoned.
Republican Jesus is actually evangelical libertarian Ayn Rand, and their bible is her book, Atlas Shrugged.However, for trust fund tycoon Donald Trump, this attack is nothing short of the single most hypocritical question of the campaign.
Donald Trump is a lying liar who lies.
Don t take our word for it.
Check out his file on fact checking site Politifact.Just 1% of claims made by Donald Trump are true.
One percent!
Meanwhile, 3 out of every 5 statements he makes are absolute lies.
Let s take a look back at some of those lies:They just keep on coming.And on the matter of faith, Donald Trump is now claiming to be some sort of born again evangelical.
Yet, Trump has been married three times, pokes fun of Holy Communion as eating the little cracker , claims he has never asked God to forgive his sins in his life, and could not name a single passage of the Bible when pressed for his favorite piece of scripture.Trump is about as devout a Christian as Bill Nye.And yet, he is winning evangelical support in droves.
Why?
Because the evangelical, Christian Conservative movement has zero to do with faith in God, and everything to do with a fanatical conviction in right-wing principles of crony capitalism, white supremacy, homophobia and sexism.If this was not the case, Trump would be the LAST candidate that appealed to Evangelicals.
To any right-thinking Christian, he is the 21st century incarnation of the Whore of Babylon.If this contest is going to come down to Ted Cruz or Donald Trump, the Republican party is really being asked whether to die by lethal injection or firing squad.
Either way, the party is going to end up dead.Featured Image via T. J. Hawk (Flickr Creative Commons)