Just as Sarah Palin was set to deliver another pro-Trump stump speech, the one-time Republican vice presidential candidate learned that her husband, Todd, had been involved in a serious snowmobile accident in Alaska and was in bad condition in the Intensive Care Unit.
She cancelled one event, but didn t go home.
Instead, she returned to the campaign trail that same day and delivered one of the most pathetic endorsements of Trump yet.
She even found a way to exploit her husband.
it was painful to watch.It almost makes you feel bad for Todd Palin.
Lying in his hospital bed, watching his wife use his moment of need to promote the guy she thinks will keep her relevant.Never one to let a family crisis go to waste (remember when she managed to turn her son s brutal beating of his girlfriend into a critique of Obama?
), Palin told the gathered Trump crowd that the experience of learning her husband almost died made her immediately realize how important her time was and that she needed to spend it getting Trump elected.The audience went wild.Incoming word salad (recorded verbatim): Yeah, good to be here.
Thawed out and little Alaskas.
Literally thawed out.
Just before I got on a flight to get out here, he s out ice fishing on our frozen lake and my husband s out snow machinin and thank you guys for your prayers for my husband who is recovering right now in ICUS after a little wreck on a snow machine.
So thank you.
Big wreck.
Thank you.
But, you know, when real life happens, right?
When someone is sick in your family, there s an accident that happens, all these challenges, these struggles in your business, in your family, with your finances, tryin to get your kids to be able to afford to go to college, all these real life issues that happen, it really puts things into perspective, doesn t it?
And doesn t it make you so appreciate your time time is our most valuable resource.
It makes me appreciate the time that we have to spend in doing something so worthy.
And that s to get Donald J. Trump elected president.When Palin learns her husband is badly injured, she takes the experience to appreciate how important it is for her to shill for Donald Trump.
That really does put things into perspective, doesn t it?
Palin: Todd s Accident Made Me Appreciate the by tommyxtopherFeatured image via Fox10 screengrab