The Antifa thugs and anarchists decided to show up today for a Rally Against Hate which we could all be a part of Who isn t against hate, right?
Making Trump supporters out to be hateful is what they want so desperately but THEY repeatedly show up to be the ones causing the violence and chaos.Antifa in Berkeley trying to murder a Trump supporter with pipes and sticks.
pic.twitter.com/XgMcki9jXV Hector Morenco (@hectormorenco) August 27, 2017They want to hijack the narrative and say that all those who don t believe what they do are white supremacists and Nazis .
Note the very professional banners they had out today wonder who paid for those?The problem is that we re on to these rent-a-mob domestic terrorists but why aren t the mayor, cops and those who are in charge in Bereley smart enough to put a stop to the violence and bullying by the Antifa terrorists?
Can you answer that question?
If you can, you ve been paying attention to what s happening all across America.
Democrat Mayors and other leaders see it as an advantage when the cops are told to do nothing When they stand down then the crowd gets more and more violent and then the media finishes the job by lying about who started the violence and who was behind it from the beginning.
See the pattern now?ONLY A HANDFUL OF TRUMP SUPPORTERS AND THEY GOT BEAT UP FOR WHAT?Where are the police?
A masked terrorist army has invaded #Berkeley pic.twitter.com/OIdVSVRmRE Mark Dice (@MarkDice) August 27, 2017LOOK WHO JOINED ANTIFA TODAY THE SOCIALISTS!Antifa greet @DSA arrival to MLK park in Berkeley.
pic.twitter.com/9MOTo18OGd Shane Bauer (@shane_bauer) August 27, 2017Why are the Berkeley cops standing down and letting the Antifa thugs run them out of MLK Park in Berkeley?Antifa chase cops out of MLK plaza in Berkeley.
Police fire teargas.
pic.twitter.com/tz5kQWFWD0 Shane Bauer (@shane_bauer) August 27, 2017 A woman attacked my photographer and I This is typical of Antifa.
They re all about violence and shutting down the media.
Scary times A woman attacked my photographer and I.
#BerkeleyProtest #berkeley .
@KTVU pic.twitter.com/LlzG9dBN4n Leigh Martinez (@LeighMartinezTV) August 27, 2017