On Sunday, RNC Chair Reince Priebus sat down with Chuck Todd on Meet the Press, where the two discussed Donald Trump s refusal to release his tax returns.
While they are not bound by law, presidential candidates have traditionally released their tax returns to the public.
It serves as a way to gain trust with the public because tax returns have a unique way of showing what financial allegiances one has.
Trump has refused to take part in the tradition.Todd questioned Priebus on the matter, asking: One final question when it comes to the issue of the Clinton Foundation and tax returns.
I want to ask it this way.
Donald Trump s been hitting hard on the Clinton Foundation and saying all sorts of behind the scenes, pay for play allegations.
Does he have does it undercut his message if he won t release his tax returns?
Would he have some higher ground, be on higher ground here when criticizing Clinton s finances if we saw his tax returns?
No I don t think so, Priebus responds.
By the way, Roger Stone is the latest Republican to call for Donald Trump to release his tax returns, a close friend of Trump s, Todd mentions.
No I don t think so, Priebus reiterates before saying, Because if you look at what Hillary Clinton has done I think when voters look at what Hillary Clinton actually did, they see somebody that they believe broke the law.
They see somebody who gave away state secrets.
They see somebody that went out of her way We know that Hillary Clinton shouldn t be trusted with national secrets and with the most precious the most precious information that our country has in their hands.
We know she can t be trusted.
Are you equating that the known conclusion that she can t be trusted with state secrets to what could be in Donald Trump s taxes?
That s when Todd gets to the heart of the matter at hand.
We ve had a history of every major nominee releasing their tax returns, Reince.
Every major presidential nominee, Todd says.
And by the way, he is a private businessman whose companies may or may not benefit from him being president.
That s something voters should want to know.
For a Republican running with a reactionary campaign slogan like Make America Great Again, Trump sure does not have any respect for American traditions.You can watch a clip from the interview below.Featured image from video screenshot