When are racists going to learn that publicly posting their hate can get them canned?Because a white Michigan firefighter has been dismissed after his racist post referring to a black woman using the N-word and telling her she should go back to being a slave was brought to the attention of his boss.Ryan Hudson whined on Facebook about San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick kneeling during the national anthem to protest police brutality.
A woman responded by writing Black Lives Matter, and that set Hudson off.
F*ck Black Lives Matter, Hudson wrote.
You are the epitome of a n*gger.
All lives matter.
And if you think it s just black lives, kiss my ass b*tch and go back to the fields that us in the north fought to free you from.
Basically I wrote Black Lives Matter, and that s when he spelled out in no uncertain terms, because he s now claiming he was drunk.
First he was hacked, now he s drunk, the woman explained to Fox 17 after Hudson tried to excuse his behavior by first claiming that he was hacked before claiming that he was intoxicated.As you can probably tell, the woman grabbed a screenshot of Hudson s incredibly racist post.
It soon became known to other firefighters, who reported it to the Belding station fire Chief Greg Moore.Moore said that Hudson is the first person he has ever had to fire but he made the decision because firefighters sign on to help everyone no matter what color their skin is.
Hudson would have been a liability because he could easily transfer his hate into how he does the job.The woman Hudson attacked agrees with Moore s decision.
Yes we do have free speech in this country, but free speech does not mean you re safe from the consequences of your free speech and your decisions.
We don t just get to spout off at the mouth and spew hatred and ignorance.
Here s the video via Fox 17.Racists like Hudson have been emboldened by Donald Trump to open their mouths, which has been quite helpful in identifying who should not be employed in this country.
So it looks like Trump actually created one job for someone in Michigan.
And as long as racists continue to spew their hate for everyone to see, more jobs will likely become available.Featured image via screenshot