In growing signs that rumors of a Fox News split on GOP frontrunner Donald Trump are true, Bill O Reilly is the latest Fox News heavyweight to take a swing at the Trump Campaign.
The O Reilly Factor host described the behavior of Donald Trump as not presidential, and called on the campaign to stop the nonsense.
O Reilly starts with Trump s response to losing to Ted Cruz in Wisconsin, which for those who missed it, was to issue an aggressive statement denouncing Lyin Ted : Last night after losing Wisconsin, Trump issued a statement calling Ted Cruz names.
Not Presidential.
Not a smart move.Seems the Trump campaign is confused.We were hoping the candidate would appear on the Factor this evening, we negotiated with his team for days.
But he declined.That of course, is his prerogative.
Apparently there is angst in the Trump campaign because Charles Krauthammer sometimes hammers Trump on the Factor.
So that s what has driven the Trump Campaign into a frenzy.
Like any playground battle amongst toddlers, it is all about who is hanging out with whom.
O Reilly is known to have Pulitzer prize-winning columnist Charles Krauthammer on his show fairly frequently, but Krauthammer hates Donald trump, which means the Trump campaign hates Charles Krauthammer and everyone is now throwing sand in each other s faces.And just to reassure you: if this all sounds like the sort of immature behavior that is demeaning to the office for which Donald Trump is running, you re right it is.
But this is the gutter into which the Republican party has dragged itself in recent years, and where it may well die in its own juices.In a week where Greg Gutfeld and Megyn Kelly gave powerful denunciations of Donald Trump and their colleagues who soft pedal interviews and debates with him, O Reilly stepped up with some home truths of his own.
The veteran host made it absolutely clear that his team would not be intimidated by the schoolyard bully tactics of the Trump campaign, drawing a clear line in the sand.
We have been very fair very fair to Donald Trump on this program, but that does not mean we ll not criticize him or cancel guests who have a dim view of him.
O Reilly goes on to demand the Trump campaign stop the nonsense and learn to answer fair questions directly, because it will be the only way he gain the support to win.
His current level of support not nearly enough to secure him the White House.
Ouch.
It seems the Trump campaign is busy alienating every friend it ever made, by demanding an exclusivity of pro-Trump content or else.
Donald Trump was clearly watching the show, as he took to Twitter immediately to refute O Reilly with a one-liner totally proving O Reilly s point.I was not scheduled to be on the @oreillyfactor.
Pure fiction!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 7, 2016This could spell the beginning of the end for Donald Trump, the trust fund tycoon who has no place in the Oval Office.Featured image via screengrab