Big government is never efficient and this is the perfect example of that.
The SSA can t collect money without spending more that it s trying to collect.
Unreal!The Social Security Administration (SSA) spends more money than it collects when trying to recover payments to individuals who received benefits for which they were not eligible.According to the Office of Inspector General (OIG), the SSA issued $128.3 million in low-dollar overpayments between 2008 and 2013, and then spent $323 million to collect them.
The agency ultimately recovered only $109.4 million.
This resulted in SSA spending over $213.6 million more than it collected, the OIG said, in an audit released Wednesday.The OIG defines an overpayment as benefit payments greater than the amount to which individuals are entitled.
The overpayments were distributed through the SSA s Retirement and Survivors Insurance (RSI), Disability Insurance (DI), and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) programs.
The SSA issued approximately $16.8 billion in disability insurance overpayments alone in the past decade.
Generally, SSA attempted to collect overpayments regardless of the amount, the OIG said.
In some cases, the value of the overpayment was less than what SSA spent to collect the overpayment.
Therefore, for some overpayments, collection was not always cost-beneficial.
A low-dollar overpayment is less than or equal to the agency s average cost to retrieve an overpayment.It cost the SSA an average $164.11 to collect each RSI overpayment, $268.32 for each disability insurance overpayment, and $56.63 for each SSI overpayment in 2013, according to the agency s Cost Analysis System (CAS).However, the OIG found errors within the accounting system.
The CAS was not able to take into account SSI overpayments that took more than one step to recover.
Some overpayments can take as many as five actions by the agency in order to get the money back, costing $283.15 for a single overpayment.
Therefore, it is not possible to determine how much the average cost to collect an SSI overpayment in CAS is understated when multiple actions are required to collect an SSI overpayment, the OIG said.Read more: WFB