If there s any one conservative that we wish would just stop thrusting themselves into the spotlight, it s probably Sarah Palin especially after her latest disgusting rant.After the attacks on police officers in Dallas, it seems that conservatives have forgotten that just before that attack, two unarmed black men had lost their lives to police brutality something that has happened far too frequently over the last few years.
Many conservatives have responded to the Dallas attacks by denouncing the Black Lives Matter movement, and the former vice presidential candidate just couldn t be left out.In a vile, racist Facebook post, Palin put in her two cents and told everyone just how furious she is while stating that Black Lives Matter is a farce.
She wrote: # BlackLivesMatter is a farce and hyphenating America destroys us.
Shame on our culture s influencers who would stir contention and division that could lead to evil such as that in Dallas.Shame on politicians and pundits giving credence to thugs rioting against police officers and the rule of law in the name of peaceful protests.
It is a farce.
#BlackLivesMatter is a farce.
Yes Palin has just accused minorities of being racist when she said that those who hyphenate racial backgrounds (such as African-Americans or Mexican-Americans) are actually the ones who further divide our nation.
And she referred to peaceful protesters as thugs.
Palin also accused the media of having blood on its hands for (accurately) depicting Black Lives Matter as a peaceful movement: Media: quit claiming the rioters are peaceful as they stomp on our flag, shout death to cops!
and celebrate violence.
It is sick.
You perpetuate a perverted message evil men thrive on to intimidate and warp malleable minds that would believe one race matters more than another.
Blood is on your complicit hands when you naively or purposefully refuse to tell of this movement s truth.
Spoken like a true Republican and someone who does not understand systemic oppression and white privilege, Palin urged her followers to stand up if you re sick of being called racist when proclaiming EVERY LIFE MATTERS, black as much as white and every skin tone in between.
You can read the entire post below:Something like this is really to be expected from Palin, though.
Her response to the issue of police brutality and race relations in America is just as disappointing as the response from her favorite presidential candidate, Donald Trump.
Trump, just like Palin, acknowledged the lives of the police officers far more than the lives of police brutality victims Philando Castile and Alton Sterling.
These two are made for each other.Featured image is a screenshot