One of the major things with Donald Trump s speech at the NATO summit that shocked everyone was his refusal to commit to Article 5, which basically states that an attack on one member is an attack on all.
But his speech wasn t supposed to be that way.
27 words were removed from that speech, and that threw his national security team for a loop.
They had no idea those words had been deleted.Trump was supposed to say: We face many threats, but I stand here before you with a clear message: the U.S. commitment to the NATO alliance and to Article 5 is unwavering.
But he didn t. And his national security team (and really, the rest of his administration) was left to clean up the shitstorm that resulted from that removal.
Everyone, from Mike Pence to National Security Adviser H.R.
McMaster to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, has been on cleanup duty, going out of their way to try and convince the world that we do, in fact, remain committed to Article 5.But apparently, the White House doesn t think it matters (here s a hint to them: It does).
Spicer told reporters that he thought the whole mess was a silly discussion, and that Trump s presence at the summit should have been enough to show our allies that we remain committed to all 13 Articles of the NATO alliance.Spicer made it sound like Trump deigned to attend an event which was beneath him and thus, not worthy of his time.Because of his ridiculous behavior and terrible understanding of everything, foreign policy advisers are now frantically trying to convince our allies that they still matter to us, and that Trump is still their partner.Trump put our allies badly on edge when he refused to commit to Article 5, and with other things he said at both the NATO summit and the G7 summit.
In doing so, he s forced Germany and France to try and isolate us in order to maintain the strength of their own alliances, because Trump just proved that we are no longer a steadfast and true partner.
He may as well have come out and said, Don t trust us anymore.
Don t rely on us anymore.
Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images