It might be hard to believe from the amount of praise she shells out for Republican nominee Donald Trump, but believe it or not, conservative pundit Ann Coulter wasn t always a fan of the business mogul until he showed America just how racist he truly was.In a recent appearance on the Off Message podcast, Coulter told Politico s Glenn Thrush that she was upset The Donald has softened (and repeatedly flip-flipped) his position on immigration a sign that he was giving into the pressure of the amnesty crowd that was taking control over his campaign.During the podcast, Coulter expressed great resentment toward Trump s new campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, who she is blaming for the GOP nominee s recent shifts on some of his most offensive and controversial policies.
Just to show you just how much Coulter loves Trump for his racist, xenophobic policies, she once said that Trump s proposal to ban all Muslims from coming into the United States was the best birthday gift ever.
In fact, Coulter admitted that she hadn t even liked Trump she originally thought he was a boorish vulgarian until he came forward with his disgusting plans for immigration.
Coulter reminisced about the correspondence she used to have with Trump s then-campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski: I was worried, the first few weeks after he announced, and I haven t told the other people this I would email in a point or two now and then, and whatever.
Whenever I would email Corey, whatever, Stop re-tweeting ugly photos of opponents wives, or whatever it was, what the final point was [was] always, Don t let him back down on immigration.
And Corey was getting a little exasperated with me and kept saying, He s not backing down.
Then he came out for the Muslim ban on my birthday, Dec. 8, my best birthday gift ever.
I finally emailed Corey and said, OK, I think he s not backing down.
But now that Trump has been going soft on his plan to deport 11 million people, Coulter is upset and being rather vocal that she thinks it s a mistake.
Coulter must be devastated that her political soulmate is backing down on her, because at one point of the podcast, she said this: I worship him like the North Koreans worship the Dear Leader yes, I would die for him.
Which totally makes sense, because Coulter soon revealed that she and Trump actually have a lot in common they both lack empathy and will just say whatever the f*ck they want: I didn t get the gene that makes me care about what other people think.
I m much like Trump that way.
I don t really care.
They re just words.
You can listen to the full, bizarre interview below:Featured image via screenshot