Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz s career is in jeopardy as a wave of resentful backlash in the Democratic Party over corrupt politics has affiliated her with everything that is wrong with establishment politics.
Her poor leadership and lack of impartiality as Chair of the Democratic National Committee has disenfranchised millions of Democrats around the country, and has inspired thousands of progressive independents to not only support Senator Bernie Sanders for president, but her Democratic Primary Challenger, Tim Canova, as well.Refusing to take money from corporations or Super PACs, Mr. Canova has raised over $550,000 in the first quarter of 2016 from small donations averaging $20 each.
Ms. Wasserman Schultz s flailing public image began its downward spiral after allegations surfaced she rigged the debate schedule of the Democratic Primaries to shield Hillary Clinton, on whose campaign she served as co-chair in 2008, from exposure.Now Debbie Wasserman Schultz is shielding herself from exposure by refusing to debate her Democratic primary challenger.
On April 11th, Tim Canova tweeted a video clip of a Debbie Wasserman Schultz s District Director, Jodi Bock Davidson, swatting a cell phone out of one of Mr. Canova s campaign staffers hand after asking Debbie Wasserman Schultz if she would agree to a debate.
Most staffers of politicians would have lost their job after such an incident, but Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who is no stranger to dirty politics, most likely applauded the response.
Mr. Canova told a local South Florida newspaper he has sent three letters to the Debbie Wasserman Schultz campaign requesting to schedule a debate and has yet to receive any response.
He has also started a petition on his campaign website for Debbie Wasserman Schultz to debate him.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz continues to remain silent regarding his inquiries.
She has often dodged questions about her primary opponent, hoping his surge will go away on its own if she ignores it.
She told the Miami Herald Tim Canova won t change her campaign strategy, which makes little sense as she has never been challenged in her Democratic Primary since she entered Congress in 2004 until now, and her congressional district consists overwhelmingly of Democrats.
It s no different than any other election I have.
I have been on the ballot virtually every time.
I do the same thing no matter whether I have primary opposition, she said in the interview.Ms.
Wasserman Schultz also dodged a question regarding why she thinks Tim Canova has gained the popularity he has.
I really don t know, answered Ms. Wasserman Schultz.
I am focused as I usually do on my own campaign, doing the best job I can to represent my constituents and that s my first responsibility is to do my job in Congress, to help elect a Democratic president and to make sure that in running for re-election people know the work I have done on their behalf.
I m not remotely paying attention to what my opponent does.
Apparently, not remotely paying attention to her opponent is synonymous with ignoring their requests to debate so voters can grasp a sense of where the two candidates differ on important issues to the constituency base.
Ms. Wasserman Schultz s failure to engage with Tim Canova in a debate setting is undemocratic and sets a terrible example for the rest of the Democratic Party from its own Chair.Featured image via Flickr