Attorney General Jeff Sessions appeared before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday afternoon and not surprisingly, there were a lot of things he really didn t want to talk about.
When he refused to answer the questions of Sen. Martin Heinrich, the Democrat from New Mexico went the f*ck off.Sessions repeatedly said that he couldn t talk about this or that because it would be inappropriate to reveal his private conversations with Donald Trump.
But Heinrich was not satisfied with any of this nonsense.
Attorney General Sessions, has the president ever expressed his frustration to you regarding your decision to recuse yourself?
Heinrich asked.Sessions began to say that he was not able to share this information with the committee when Heinrich cut him off.
You re invoking executive privilege?
the senator asked.
I m not able to invoke executive privilege.
That s the president s prerogative, Sessions replied.At this point, Heinrich unleashed his wrath.My understanding is that you took an oath, you raised your right hand here today and you said that you would solemnly tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and now you re not answering questions.You re impeding this investigation, so my understanding of the legal standard is that you either answer the question.
That s the best outcome.You say this is classified, can t answer it here.
I ll answer it in closed session.
That s bucket number two.
Bucket number three is to say I m invoking executive privilege.
There is no appropriateness bucket.
It is not a legal standard.
Can you tell me why what are these long-standing DOJ rules that protect conversations made in the executive without invoking executive privilege?Sessions insisted that he was just protecting the president s constitutional right by not giving it away before he has a chance to review it.
But Heinrich told him that he couldn t have it both ways.
The attorney general continued to argue that his silence was consistent with the policies of the Department of Justice.
But when Heinrich asked to see those policies, Sessions ended up saying that it was his judgment that it would be inappropriate to share this information.
There are also other privileges that could be invoked.
One of the things deals with the investigation of the special counsel as other Sessions began to say when Heinrich interrupted him again to remind him that there are multiple investigations going on.We re not asking questions about that investigation.
If I wanted to ask questions about that investigation, I d ask those of rod Rosenstein.
I m asking about your personal knowledge from this committee which has a constitutional obligation to get to the bottom of this.There are two investigations here.
There is a special counsel investigation.
There is also a congressional investigation, and you are obstructing that congressional delegation investigation by not answering these questions, and I think your silence, like the silence of Director Coats, like the silence of Admiral Rogers speaks volumes.Sessions never did provide a satisfactory to Heinrich s question, but Heinrich just became one of my favorite senators today.
You can watch Sen. Heinrich wipe the floor with Jeff Sessions below:Featured image via video screen capture