A lot of people have said that Donald Trump would start sounding more presidential if he managed to secure the Republican nomination.
This meant that he would tone down his rhetoric, maybe try to bring the country together inside of dividing us and attempt to gain the support of Independent voters by sounding like an intelligent human being.
Trump, however, has proven that he has different plans and he doesn t give a f*ck about uniting this country.On Wednesday evening, the presumptive nominee for the GOP sat down with NBC Nightly News host Lester Holt for an interview and promised more of the same.Holt asked, As you try to appeal to the whole country, do you stand, for example, by the idea of a ban on foreign Muslims coming into the country?
Trump responded: I do.
We have to be vigilant.
We have to be strong.
We have to see what s going on.
There s a big problem in the world happening with the migration in Europe, you look at Germany, it s crime riddled right now.
LIES!
Germany is absolutely not riddled with crime.
Trump is so full of shit.
Last year the German Federal Office of Criminal Investigation studied crime rates in the country to see if there was a rise due to the Syrian refugees fleeing to the country and found:Crimes committed by refugees stood at the same level as those committed by native Germans.
These findings are the result of an initial evaluation conducted by the BKA in cooperation with all federal states and commissioned by the Ministry of the Interior.Interior Minister Thomas de Maizi re said that based on the numbers presently available, he would forecast refugees to be as prone to committing crimes as native Germans are.
He explained that he had ordered the report in early October in order to provide proof to dispel rumors about an increase in criminal acts in Germany.
This another lie just like the one about only bad Mexicans coming to the United States.
The interview with Holt proved that 1) Trump has not plan to tone down his hateful rhetoric and 2) he has no plans to start telling the truth.
There is no way he is going to win over the voters he needs if he continues down the path that he is on.
Unless he wakes up one day and starts talking about equality, inclusiveness and apologizes to all of the people he offended, he has no chance in hell of EVER sitting behind the desk in the Oval Office.
But if a miracle happened and he somehow won, he would absolutely destroy our country he just let us know.Watch:Featured image via video screenshot