Picture this: Someone decides one of their leaders is a traitor over her support of staying in the European Union shoots her with a homemade pistol he built with instructions he received from a far-right group and stabs her.
During the attack, he shouts Britain first an ugly phrase that is very similar to Donald Trump s America First rhetoric.
This was how British MP Jo Cox died at the hands of Tommy Mair (or Death to Traitors, as he prefers to be known in court).This was a horrific crime committed by the sort of person who would support Donald Trump in the United States (a white supremacist), and the murderer s fascination with everything the far Right has to offer hits very close to home for many of us after Robert Lewis Dear s horrific attack on a Planned Parenthood facility last year.
Naturally, as Britain is our ally and as Ms. Cox worked on the Barack Obama s campaign in 2008 before she became MP for Batley and Spen, the President called her husband to offer his condolences.
President Obama offered his sincere condolences on behalf of the American people to Mr. Cox and his two young children, as well as to her friends, colleagues and constituents, the White House said in a statement.
The President noted that the world is a better place because of her selfless service to others, and that there can be no justification for this heinous crime, which robbed a family, a community, and a nation of a dedicated wife, mother, and public servant.
Most people would see the most powerful man in the world taking a few minutes of his time in the wake of a deadly far-Right terrorist attack we are dealing with at home as, at minimum, a nice gesture.
Some would consider it downright benevolent.
But after scrolling through the comments on their report on the topic, none of those people read Fox News.The comment section quickly erupted with a slew of racist statements, with some calling the President a chimp and others opting for monkey or n****r. Some snarkily remarked that Britain is a gun-free zone, completely ignoring that the gun was homemade with the help of white supremacist literature.
Others began demanding that Obama call the families of quite literally anyone else who has ever died, ever police officers, the families of various far-Right icons, Snoopy, who knows?
Mothers debated whether he is simply black trash or half black trash.
All in all, it s a complete mess in there: Obama did not have to make that phone call but that s the sort of person he is.
While he cannot reasonably be expected to call the families of every single person who dies, he is the kind of guy who will absolutely take time out of his overloaded schedule to offer comfort to the family of one of our allies legislators after someone very Trump-like viciously murders her for no better reason than he s a racist especially with America First being chanted at Trump rally after Trump rally.This horrific murder serves as a reminder that far-right extremists are not limited simply to the United States (though they seem to be more vocal and unashamed of their racist opinions here than in other places).
It is absolutely baffling that they are unwilling to allow the President to do so much as make a phone call without going full-blown, insane racist on him.All of these people will be voting in November.
Make sure you head to the polls and VOTE BLUE After all, they ll be voting for someone whose rhetoric is very close to that of Cox s murderer.Featured image via screengrab/Getty Images (pool)