Conservatives are downright furious after Saturday Night Live s Michael Che cracked a joke likening tangerine sh*tgibbon Donald Trump to a monkey with a machine gun.
No, they re not mad because an insult was leveled at Trump (this time) they re furious that they don t get to apply the term to black people (specifically Obama) without facing criticism.On Sunday, Gateway Pundit that s the site that brought us the lie that Michael Brown fractured Darren Wilson s eye socket, for reference complained that African-American SNL cast member Michael Che used the word monkey to describe Trump.
Taking the presidency away from Donald Trump now is like giving a monkey a machine gun and then trying to wrestle it back from him, Che quipped during the Weekend Update segment.
At this point all we can do is pray that he can t figure out how it works, gets bored and just puts it down and walks away.
Democrats and liberals skewered with impunity then-President George W. Bush with monkey comparisons all during his presidency.
When Barack Obama became president in 2009 all such comparisons were deemed racist and resulted in people losing their jobs and being publicly shamed on the Internet, Kristinn Taylor whines in her article for the site.
Now that a white Republican is soon to be president again, de-humanizing the president is politically correct again.
Now, any intelligent person realizes that any such comparisons with regard to Bush were related to the actions of a single idiot while their Obama-monkey remarks are almost always related to his race.
And, as we all know, people call Trump a monkey because his face is the exact color of a baboon s posterior (among other reasons).
But conservative readers of the right-wing propaganda mill quickly jumped on board, filling the comment section up with stuff like, well, this: What is truly baffling is that these people somehow lack the self-awareness to realize they are racists.Watch the segment below:Featured image via Getty Images(Chip Somodevilla)/screengrab