The organization called Freedom from Religion has been going around to Christian monuments and signs across America and demanding they be taken down.
Every sign and cross they come across that s on city property is in violation of separation of church and state.Here are other recent efforts to remove religious signs:Military Chaplains Rally As Inspiring Sign Comes Under Fire From Religious Freedom Organization(VIDEO) SPARKS FLY WHEN FREEDOM FROM RELIGION GROUP ASKS TEXAS TOWN TO REMOVE SIGN WELCOMING VISITORSThe big question to us is that the town wants the sign and has had it up for decades.
If the town votes for it, can the sign remain?
America is, after all, founded on Christianity and is a majority country.
The more important point is that while these people are trying to rid us of Christian signs, the Muslim religion is EXPLODING in America.
We had 200 Mosques only a decade ago and now we have over 2,000!
Our schools are being slowly entrenched with lessons on Islam.
Communities are having Muslim Day so you can learn more about being Muslim I could go on but you catch my drift.
If we don t fight back now, we re scr*wed!
Two signs in Hondo that tout the city as God s Country have prompted the Freedom From Religion Foundation to complain the placards constitute an impermissible government endorsement of religion.But Mayor Jim Danner left no doubt that he ll oppose removing the iconic signs beside U.S. 90 that say, in full, This Is God s Country Please Don t Drive Through It Like Hell.
There s no way in hell we re going to take those signs down, the mayor said Monday, predicting locals would back that stance.
I think when they find out we received that letter, we ll have total support from the community to keep them.
Foundation Co-President Anne Laurie Gaylor told Danner in a letter last week, The message assumes a common god, yet imagine the public outrage had the city posted a sign that said, This is Vishnu s Country.
It is equally inflammatory and inappropriate to post a sign dedicating a city to the god of the bible, she said, referencing the establishment clause of the First Amendment.
The city-owned signs on public property convey government preference for religion over non-religion, according to Gaylor, and sends the message that non-believers are not welcome in the city.
We respect the right of every person in Hondo to practice whatever religion or non-religion, they choose, he said.
The only problem here is that it s the government endorsing religion, rather than private entities.
Via: mysanantonio.com