Obama is hell bent on closing GITMO before he leaves office even if it s the wrong move.
His legacy comes before what s right for all Americans and he s got a couple Senators really peeved.
Obama s latest plan is to move GITMO to South Carolina and Kansas.
You guessed it, the Senators from those two states are not having any of it!
Remember when Obama tried this 7 years ago?
It didn t go over well then but it seems desperation has kicked in and he s trying to dump the GITMO prisoners in states again.
Republican Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Pat Roberts of Kansas are up in arms about reports that the Pentagon is scouting sites in their home states to house terrorist prisoners currently detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
We have received reports of President Obama s attempt to shut down Guantanamo Bay, which once again reflects another egregious overstep by this administration, Roberts said in a statement on Friday, referring to the law preventing transferring any of the inmates to a U.S. prison.
Congress has consistently stopped Obama by law from moving a single detainee to the U.S., Roberts said in reaction to reports that Kansas s Fort Leavenworth is being considered as the terrorist suspects new home.
I shut down this administration s nominee for secretary of the Army in 2009 to prevent moving any detainees to Kansas and will do it again if necessary, he said.
Not on my watch will any terrorist be placed in Kansas.
Graham was equally emphatic upon learning that Defense Secretary Ash Carter is also considering Charleston for the new high-risk installation.
If the detainees need to be moved, they must be moved to a maximum security location in a remote area far from heavily populated areas with vital infrastructure, Graham told the Washington Post earlier this week.
Charleston does not meet that criteria.
The Pentagon on Thursday confirmed to lawmakers that it is studying both Forth Leavenworth and the Consolidated Naval Brig in Charleston as potential sites.Via: WE