For more than a century, countries around the world who found themselves rich in crude oil have held industrialized nations dependent on it hostage.
Since the first Ford factory pushed out a production automobile, forever changing the way we travel, those countries with the means to fuel the internal combustion engine have prospered.The United States has prided itself on being peacemakers since World War II, but all too often we are held captive by what would otherwise be third world nations, often ruled by religious zealots and ruthless dictators.
The first Gulf War was the perfect example.
Kuwait, a long-standing ally and major supplier of oil to the U.S., was toppled within days by Saddam Hussein, who wanted control of their port and their oil.
The United States had no choice but to step in, calling it a humanitarian mission and sending Hussein back to Baghdad, but stopping short of toppling his regime once the oil was secured.
Suddenly, it became far more important to put out oil field fires than it was to remove a ruthless murderer from power.Our government and our allies have to protect the interests of their people.
In doing so we are stuck dealing with people like the Saudis, who have a Royal Family with good intentions but are ultimately ruled by fundamentalist clerics at the local level.
Human rights violations far exceed what we would consider acceptable if they weren t such a large supplier of oil to NATO countries.
There are examples of the same kinds of abuses from all over the oil-rich world, but the black gold tends to keep anyone from being held accountable.So how could we make it possible to rid the world of tyranny and oppression bought and paid for with crude oil?
By eliminating it from the equation.
Elon Musk and Tesla have just announced that we are one giant leap closer to that goal with the rollout of the model 3 , a production model fully electric car that will be available by the end of 2107 for a starting price of $35,000.
With the power to go from zero to 60 in six seconds and more than 200 miles on a single charge, the Tesla model 3 could realistically change the world.Once an idea becomes a reality, the next step is to make it affordable.
While $35K may seem out of reach for many, it s certainly right in line with the $33,500 average selling price of a new car in America.
From there the technology should migrate to other modes of transportation.
The world is a changing place, and this major step in our socioeconomic evolution is a milestone we should all be ecstatic to see.https://www.facebook.com/cnn/videos/10154647071941509/ Featured image from Jordan Pix/Getty Images