The Internet can be a vicious place and an openly gay lawmaker has gotten used to being the recipient of homophobic slurs.
On Wednesday morning, Pennsylvania House Rep. Brian Sims woke up to find a message on his Facebook page which read, N**ger faggot.
There wasn t much information on the troll s Facebook page.
What caught me about it was there wasn t a reference to something I said or something I d done or some policy, Sims told the Huffington Post.
And when I looked at his page there was very little there but he d posted a telephone number a number of times.
At 6:15 a.m. Sims decided to call the number and the woman who answered the phone turned out to be the troll s grandmother.
You ve all seen the Brave keyboard warrior sitting in Mom s basement eating a hot pocket sandwich type meme but this was real life.
I explained to her exactly who I as and what he had done, Sims said.
Like any grandma she was very embarrassed at having this kind of convo and very ashamed at the actions of her grandson.
The conversation ended with me telling her that I wanted to hear from him.
Sims did speak to the troll but he said that the conversation didn t resolve anything.
It is the ultimate calling card of a coward to under the guise of night and behind a keyboard use the kind of language that in person would cause most decent people to respond in anger and frustration, Sims said.
The reason people do things like this is they don t have the courage, the education or gumption to do this kind of thing in person.
At the top of Sims Facebook page, it now reads:Dear Bigots, posting your grandmother s telephone number all over the same page you use to post slurs on other people s pages is not going to end well for you.
Brian(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/pt_BR/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Dear Bigots, posting your grandmother's telephone number all over the same page you use to post slurs on other people's pages is not going to end well for you.
BrianPublicado por Brian Sims em Quarta, 26 de abril de 2017Rep.
Sims was nice enough to blur out the troll s last name, leaving only David to identify him with even though when the bigot left the message, he proudly displayed his name, leaving his grandma s phone number behind to track him down with.The post has gone viral with over 10,000 likes.
Trolls, do not mess with Rep. Sims.
He will call your grandma.The troll should have read Sims post alongside his Facebook picture.
The post left the day after the U.S. presidential election reads, Too strong to be pushed back into the closet.
Too experienced to lose our way.
Too battle tested to give up now.
Too much at stake to throw up our hands.
Too right to be wrong.
Testify!Image via Facebook.