Sarah Palin is an idiot.
While this has been commonly accepted ever since she slinked out of her slime pit and emerged on the political scene, Palin recently managed to be so utterly stupid that it prompted an official White House response.
After Palin s son Track drunkenly beat his girlfriend and made threats with a semiautomatic weapon, Caribou Barbie did the only thing she knows how to do: she blamed that socialist Communist Muslim atheist fascist dictator Barack Obama.Sure, the half-term, half-wit former Governor of Alaska could have had a moment of self-reflection, questioning her role as a parent and what she did wrong in failing to instill proper values in her precious little snowflake.
She could have spoken out against domestic violence in general, and pointed out that it is an issue that faces many families, including hers.
She could have said nothing at all.
Instead, she told a crowd at a Donald Trump rally that Obama gave her son PTSD when he served in Iraq for a single year under Bush, and blamed Track s violent tendencies the President s blatant attempt to deprive veterans of medical and psychological treatment (failing to mention that it was actually Republicans who slashed the budget for veterans care): I can talk personally about this, I guess it s kind of the elephant in the room.
My son like so many others, they come back a bit different, they come back hardened, they come back wondering if there is that respect for what it is that their fellow soldiers and airmen and every other member of the military so sacrificially have given to this country.
And that starts from the top.
It s a shame that our military personnel even have to wonder, if they have to question, if they re respected anymore.
It starts from the top.
The question though that comes from our own president where they have to look at him and wonder, do you know what we go through?
Do you know what we re trying to do to secure America and to secure the freedoms that have been bequeathed us?
I can certainly relate with other families who kind of feel these ramifications of some PTSD and some of the woundedness that our soldiers do return with, Palin said.
And it makes me realize more than ever it is now or never for the sake of Americas finest that we have that commander in chief that will respect them and honor them.
Earnest said that while it s easy to mock Palin really easy the topics she discussed are not a joke: The reaction of some people I think is to make light of some of the rhetoric that we see on the campaign trail, particularly from Gov.
Palin.
But the fact is domestic violence is not a joke.
Gun violence is not a joke.
Problems with addiction are not a joke.
The consequences, or I should say, the sacrifices that many of our men and women in uniform make for our safety and security are not a joke.
We take [those issues] very seriously and there are many communities and families that are dealing with these very difficult challenges in a way that is sometimes difficult to talk about publicly, he said.Classy something one would never expect from someone who would fling herself on top of a dogpile in a drunken brawl her family started at someone s birthday party.Watch Earnest eloquently destroy her below:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHuDTaEGJ2s&w=560&h=315]Featured image via screengrab (1,2)