Donald Trump is a misogynist creep and Ashley Judd had no problem telling the world what she has personally witnessed.The actress talked to Jezebel writer Ellie Shechet on Thursday morning on the red carpet of the Creative Coalition Gala and Judd gave an unprompted story about the Republican nominee, whom she has know for over a decade.
And let s just say that Judd s story about Trump takes him to a whole new level of creepy perv.
I ve known Donald for 15, 17 years?
she began.
I m friends with someone who married into the family.
Anyway, I would bump into him at the U.S. Open, for example, and I think I can say the amount of time he has spent looking at my chest rather than my face is proportional to his insanity and functionality.
And then she demonstrated exactly what Trump does.
If I may, this is what it s like to talk to Donald Trump.
Judd stopped and stared pointedly at my chest.
He s a chest gazer, a breast gazer, let s be more specific and, referring to the person who at that time was married into the family, he just sexualized her.
Doesn t she look great?
Doesn t she look ?
He s just revolting.
And it s not like Trump hasn t publicly displayed his creepiness.On multiple occasions, Trump has fantasized about his own daughter.
During a 2006 appearance on The View, Trump said this about Ivanka Trump when asked if she would ever pose for Playboy: It would be really disappointing not really but it would depend on what s inside the magazine.
I don t think Ivanka would do that, although she does have a very nice figure.
I ve said if Ivanka weren t my daughter, perhaps I d be dating her.
And that was just in 2006.
Here s what he told Rolling Stone for an article in 2015.At 69, he can still carry on like the teen who was yanked out of prep school and delivered to Col. Dobias, the take-no-shit instructor at the military academy.
After I met Ivanka and praised her to her father, he said, Yeah, she s really something, and what a beauty, that one.
If I weren t happily married and, ya know, her father .
.
.
So yeah, Donald Trump treats all women, even his own daughter, as sexual objects.
He s disgusting.
And he s the person the Republican Party chose as their leader.
If that s how they thought they could reach out to women voters they were sorely mistaken.Featured Image: Wikimedia