Two U.S. Marines are reportedly under investigation following a potential threat against the LGBTQ community posted on social media.According to the Marine Corps Times an active duty Marine posted an image to Facebook which shows a uniformed corporal holding a rifle in a menacing manner.
The message Coming to a gay bar near you, appears on the image.Here s the image, courtesy of the Marine Corps Times.In the comments section the person who posted the photo wrote Too soon?
The image was posted to a closed Facebook group for West Coast-based male Marines, called Camp MENdleton Resale.
The group has more than 25,000 members.According to Michael Moss, founder of the Facebook group where the image was posted, the photo was immediately removed from the group and reported to authorities.
We do not tolerate hate speech, Moss said in a Facebook post.The California-based 1 Marine Expeditionary Force (1 MEF) is investigating the man who posted the photo to the group page, as well as a second Marine who apparently uploaded the image to Facebook.First Lt. Thomas Gray, a spokesman for I MEF, told the Marine Corps Times that the man in the photo has been identified and is part of the on-going investigation.
Gray declined to provide more information about the individual, saying: We cannot discuss details of an ongoing investigation, but I can tell you the command is taking this incident seriously.
The MEF released a public statement regarding the investigation, which reads: The Marine Corps does not tolerate discrimination based on sexual orientation, race, gender or religion.
This type of behavior and mindset will not be allowed, and it is not consistent with the core values of honor, courage and commitment that are demonstrated by the vast majority of Marines on a daily basis.
Officials said they will take appropriate action, against the individuals involved.The threatening post came on the heels of the Pulse Orlando mass shooting.
While some have implied that the post was meant to be a joke, there s nothing even remotely funny about gun violence or threats of terror against the LGBTQ community.Featured image via Marine Corp Times via Facebook