Bill Maher returned from break just in time for Donald Trump s inauguration and dedicated one of his New Rules to the red states that have massive drug addiction problems.Maher began by telling liberals that they need to stop calling Trump supporters rubes and simpletons, and feel their pain instead.Maher even proved that Trump supporters are truly in pain because he pointed out that of the 14 states that have the highest number of painkiller prescriptions in the country, all of them voted for Trump.Trump also won 80 percent of the states that have the biggest heroin problem, including the counties Trump won in Ohio and Pennsylvania.
In other words, people voted for Trump because they were on drugs and out of their f*cking minds.
So lets stop calling Trump supporters idiots and fools and call them what they are: f*cking drug addicts!
Maher said.Maher then proceeded to blast conservatives for being hypocrites because they ve been labeling liberals as drug addicts for decades but they are now the ones plagued by heroin and painkillers to the point where these states literally are flipping to Republicans.Maher noted that Trump s best state was West Virginia, where people pop over 400 painkillers per person.
West Virginia s mascot is a dilated pupil, Maher quipped.
Maher also pointed out that Wisconsin has been turning redder and redder since 2008 and now has a major heroin epidemic that has caused the number of drug deaths to quadruple.
I never thought I would hear myself say this, but kids, don t do heroin.
It s a gateway to being a Republican, Maher continued.Maher continued by trying to teach conservatives how to deal with being high without doing crazy shit like voting for Trump.
We get high and bid a thousand bucks for a Beatles lunchbox on eBay, you got high and ordered a president from Moscow.
He then concluded the segment by telling drug addled conservative to ignore the asshole across the bar who keeps staring at you staring at you, that s a mirror.
Here s the video via YouTube:Featured image via screenshot