Since March of 2010, the American people have had to suffer under the incredible economic burden of the Affordable Care Act Obamacare.
This legislation, passed by totally partisan votes in the House and Senate and signed into law by the most divisive and partisan President in American history, has tragically but predictably resulted in runaway costs, websites that don t work, greater rationing of care, higher premiums, less competition and fewer choices.
Obamacare has raised the economic uncertainty of every single person residing in this country.
As it appears Obamacare is certain to collapse of its own weight, the damage done by the Democrats and President Obama, and abetted by the Supreme Court, will be difficult to repair unless the next President and a Republican congress lead the effort to bring much-needed free market reforms to the healthcare industry.Congress must act.
Our elected representatives in the House and Senate must:1.
Completely repeal Obamacare.
Our elected representatives must eliminate the individual mandate.
No person should be required to buy insurance unless he or she wants to.2.
Modify existing law that inhibits the sale of health insurance across state lines.
As long as the plan purchased complies with state requirements, any vendor ought to be able to offer insurance in any state.
By allowing full competition in this market, insurance costs will go down and consumer satisfaction will go up.3.
Allow individuals to fully deduct health insurance premium payments from their tax returns under the current tax system.
Businesses are allowed to take these deductions so why wouldn t Congress allow individuals the same exemptions?
As we allow the free market to provide insurance coverage opportunities to companies and individuals, we must also make sure that no one slips through the cracks simply because they cannot afford insurance.
We must review basic options for Medicaid and work with states to ensure that those who want healthcare coverage can have it.4.
Allow individuals to use Health Savings Accounts (HSAs).
Contributions into HSAs should be tax-free and should be allowed to accumulate.
These accounts would become part of the estate of the individual and could be passed on to heirs without fear of any death penalty.
These plans should be particularly attractive to young people who are healthy and can afford high-deductible insurance plans.
These funds can be used by any member of a family without penalty.
The flexibility and security provided by HSAs will be of great benefit to all who participate.5.
Require price transparency from all healthcare providers, especially doctors and healthcare organizations like clinics and hospitals.
Individuals should be able to shop to find the best prices for procedures, exams or any other medical-related procedure.6.
Block-grant Medicaid to the states.
Nearly every state already offers benefits beyond what is required in the current Medicaid structure.
The state governments know their people best and can manage the administration of Medicaid far better without federal overhead.
States will have the incentives to seek out and eliminate fraud, waste and abuse to preserve our precious resources.7.
Remove barriers to entry into free markets for drug providers that offer safe, reliable and cheaper products.
Congress will need the courage to step away from the special interests and do what is right for America.
Though the pharmaceutical industry is in the private sector, drug companies provide a public service.
Allowing consumers access to imported, safe and dependable drugs from overseas will bring more options to consumers.