Erin Moran s family members must have really upset former Happy Days star Scott Baio and his wife because now Chachi s penis size is being defended.Trump fan Scott Baio weighed in on Moran s death, saying he was not completely shocked by his former co-star s death and added that if you do drugs or drink, you re gonna die.
I m sorry if that s cold, but God gave you a brain, gave you the will to live and thrive and you gotta take care of yourself.
However, Moran died from cancer, not drugs.
And Baio s ignorance about drug addiction is stunning.So, Moran s brother Tony and her cousin, Roy, wasn t too pleased.
Baio was called a d*ck head and a scumbag coward piece of shit!
On Facebook, Tony Moran wrote:A special shout out to Scott Baio.
I already went on Twitter about you.
I hope it finds you.
You and my lil sis had a very very brief fling.
She dumped you.
2 reasons.
1.
She told me that you were more like a lil girl and not a man.
2.
She told me that you were tiny.
Ya know.
Barely a man in the man region.
True story!
Scott, I d advise you to get on your knees and pray you never run into me.In what The Daily Beast notes as an inability to know when to maintain a dignified silence, Renee Baio came to the defense of her husband s penis size.Renee tweeted, Why would a sister tell her brother about the size of boyfriend s manhood?
Creepy at best.
SB was a playboy for a reason!
We took a screenshot knowing she might delete it or lock down her account and as a surprise to no one ever, her tweets are now protected.So now Mrs. Baio is calling Erin Moran creepy.
When her defense of Chachi s penis size is, but he was a playboy 4 a reason, then she is bringing his manhood into question again.
Sometimes silence is the better option.
Chachi never grew up and he apparently married a child.
Both of them are staunch Trump supporters, by the way.
Chachi loves Trump.
As for Renee, the E-list celebrity s wife, she s as much of an idiot as her husband.
She s taken to Facebook to launch rants in defense of her husband by using homophobic slurs against a website then declaring that Scott has more class in his piss than all of you all.
Classy.Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images