FBI insiders are spreading the word, Hillary Clinton deliberately broke the law and charges are warranted.
However, there is little confidence the Obama administration will actually indict her.Hillary Clinton broke the law, knowingly sending and receiving classified information on a private server, according to FBI insiders.
However, this isn t the right question.
Instead, the right question is, why are FBI insiders spreading rumors?The answer is because they do not think the political establishment will play its role in any case, leaving Hillary Clinton to get away with thumbing her nose at the law.
Via: Catholic OnlineAccording to the Daily Mail Any evidence that the FBI uncovered has still not been made public.The government says no final decision has been made, however the case is clearly progressing as Clinton aide Bryan Pagliano, who worked on her private server, was granted immunity by the Justice Department earlier this month.
You don t start granting people close to Clinton immunity unless you are seriously looking at charges against your target, one of Gasparino s sources said.Clinton has publicly said that using a private email account attached to a homebrew server was a mistake.
Mainly because it s caused all this uproar and commotion.
As FBI director, however, Comey can only recommend charges to the Justice Department, led by Obama appointee, Attorney General Loretta Lynch.Insiders told the New York Post that evidence would have to be overwhelming for Comey to make such recommendations and for Obama s Justice Department to pursue them.But agents also suggest that the investigation is solid enough for Comey to quit if the Justice Department doesn t listen to him on the matter of Clinton.Barack Obama s decision to publicly ask donors to support Hillary speaks volumes about his decision to back her as the Democrat Party s Presidential candidate.
Barack s former AG, Eric Holder s endorsement of Hillary Clinton is further proof that Hillary has the full backing of this corrupt administration:Eric Holder I think what people have to understand is that what we have to do is protect the Obama legacy.
We ve made really substantial progress in the last eight years it ll be eight years at the end of 2016 and the question is who is best situated to protect that legacy and not let the progress that we have made get rolled back.
And there is no question that there are going to be attempts to roll back the Affordable Care Act, they sent [President Obama] a bill the week before last that he had to veto.
There will certainly be efforts to counter the executive actions that he s taken on immigration issues, when it comes to gun safety issues and his foreign policy.
You need somebody who s got a record on those issues that s consistent with the positions that the president took, and Hillary Clinton is that person, there s no question.
They are in lockstep when it comes to gun safety issues.
Sen. [Bernie] Sanders, quite frankly, is not.
So to the extent that people are a bit of a nostalgic, wistful feeling, I think that ought to be converted into a concern for the future and for the preservation of all the great work that President Obama and his administration did.
Here s the only clear record that Hillary has to show for her decades of public service :