Yes.
Seriously.
Republican delegates all received a Trump-themed gift bag after they suffered through the train wreck that was the Republican National convention.
The bags, which read Make America Great Again on the sides, contained all sorts of Trump-related goodness including glasses and Trump s political fiction novel, Crippled America.
These lucky recipients also got themselves a Make America Great Again hat so their neighbors and friends know they have no problem wth racism and willful ignorance, Kleenex they can use when Hillary Clinton trounces Trump in November, and a fetus action figure.
The fetus figure doesn t have kung-fu action grip, but it does come with a stupid little card that serves as a reminder that Republicans are entirely against women s rights.
This card, which accompanies the disgusting fetus figures, is produced by the pro-life company, Heritage House:Bust reports that:The Heritage House site itself describes the models as the most realistic fetal model ever developed.
It s beautiful detail, softness and weight can really move hearts and change minds!
Well, I think if you re receiving one of these goodie bags as an RNC attendee, your mind is probably already made up.This is just another reminder that a Trump/Pence ticket is extremely dangerous.
The Republican Party, at this point, has dedicated itself to radically dismantling Planned Parenthood, and they have worked hard to put as many roadblocks as possible between women and their legal right to choose to have an abortion (although, let s hope this soon changes due to a recent Supreme Court case).It may seem shocking that Trump would include this in a self-serving, self-promoting collection of products that celebrate himself, but let s remember that he thinks women should be punished for having an abortion.
Pence has also signed a law that mandates funerals for aborted fetuses, so an item dedicated to making things harder on women during a time in which they are forced to make a difficult decision whether or not to terminate a pregnancy is absolutely something important enough to shove in a Trump gift bag.Watch Trump speak on the importance of punishing women for their health care choices below:Featured image via screengrab