White House counselor Kellyanne Conway has previously said to take alleged president Donald Trump s tweets seriously but now, she thinks the media should stop reporting about his crazy-time messages on the social media site.
Aides agree with her.
Pay no attention to his mean-girl tweets.
But, the former reality show star wants his tweets to be taken seriously.
Trump wrote Tuesday morning, The FAKE MSM is working so hard trying to get me not to use Social Media.
They hate that I can get the honest and unfiltered message out.
The FAKE MSM is working so hard trying to get me not to use Social Media.
They hate that I can get the honest and unfiltered message out.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2017That s something we can agree with Trump on.
Keep tweeting, Amateur.
Former FBI Director James Comey is testifying in two days and Trump s Twitter timeline is a goldmine for investigators looking into his possible collusion with Russia to interfere in the 2016 election.
In addition, every time White House officials are interviewed to defend their boss, Trump inevitably tweets out messages which debunk their defense.Twitter users responded because Trump is cray, that s why.
"Honest" like yesterday when Trump blamed Ds for obstructing confirmation of ambassadors he hasn't even nominated https://t.co/lrsAJg2ugf Robert Maguire (@RobertMaguire_) June 6, 2017When the Mayor of London told his city to not be alarmed by the police presence following the terror attack, Trump took his words out of context on Twitter to attack our ally.Or the other moments of "honesty" when Trump insinuated that the mayor had said not to be alarmed about a terrorist attack pic.twitter.com/vLxVrDxhfz Robert Maguire (@RobertMaguire_) June 6, 2017Trump claims to use Twitter so his honest message can be relayed to the public.
You know, like his inaugural crowd size and covfefe.Unfiltered like Covfefe.
Honest like 3-5 million illegal voters.
Ram Prasad (@ramprasad_c) June 6, 2017Keep it up, Sport.Mate, no one wants you to stop, this is more entertaining than a pug in a squirrel suit Chris York (@ChrisDYork) June 6, 2017In the following tweet, Trump wrote, Sorry folks, but if I would have relied on the Fake News of CNN, NBC, ABC, CBS, washpost or nytimes, I would have had ZERO chance winning WH.
Sorry folks, but if I would have relied on the Fake News of CNN, NBC, ABC, CBS, washpost or nytimes, I would have had ZERO chance winning WH Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2017But Trump had a little help winning the election.All you needed was Russia Mike Denison (@mikd33) June 6, 2017This is all a distraction.Keep in mind that any tweet Trump does this week is intended for one purpose only: Distraction.
Richard Blair (@allspinzone) June 6, 2017In all seriousness, though, we do appreciate the apology.
If you had just ended it at "Sorry folks" it would have been your best tweet ever!
Ben Hooper (@BenHooperWrites) June 6, 2017Do you still believe Mexico will pay for the wall?
Morten verbye (@morten) June 6, 2017Whoops!In other things that were more helpful to your campaign than the media and Twitter: pic.twitter.com/17JO9VkPNK Ben Hooper (@BenHooperWrites) June 6, 2017It s D-Day Remembrance Day and our idiotic fake president is tweeting about his election win.It s D-Day Remembrance Day and all you re whining on about is winning the election.
You re pathetic.
Emma Kennedy (@EmmaKennedy) June 6, 2017Honestly just shut the fuck up please Brittany Van Horne (@_brittanyv) June 6, 2017He thinks D-Day stands for Donald.
Buddy Winston (@BuddyWinston) June 6, 2017More gaslighting.more gas lighting, Donald, which seems to be the only thing you re good at.
Joel L. Watts (@eJoelWatts) June 6, 2017The world is laughing at us.The WH also has ZERO chance of winning for America as long as you are in the Oval Office.
pic.twitter.com/sh3KqmG6wm Adam Best (@adamcbest) June 6, 2017Because you placate to a base that has the collective intelligence of a gravel driveway.
#Trumprussia #trump #RESISTANCE pic.twitter.com/9K46ekIPKN T. Rafael Cimino (@TRafaelCimino) June 6, 2017On Monday, Trump held a signing event which was totally fake because he had no bills to sign.Don't forget yesterday's fake signing of air-traffic "legislation."
Reality show realtor = terrible president.
Mike Mestas (@EmmJayyMest) June 6, 2017Trump s tweets are quoted verbatim by the media and that angers him.
If you want to see what fake news looks like, take a peek at his Twitter timeline every day.
He s a petulant 70-year-old baby with no impulse control.
Trump is plagued with scandals and he s only been on the job for 137 days.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images