It s a shame Barbara Boxer is leaving the Senate.
A fierce defender of working families and minority communities, Boxer is the kind of firebrand progressive we need in the Senate.
She s also one of the funniest, apparently.In 2010, when Republicans swept the House of Representatives and picked up six seats in the Senate, Boxer faced Carly Fiorina, who mounted a tough and controversial campaign to unseat Boxer in California.In the end, Boxer prevailed, garnering 52 percent of the vote to Fiorina s 42 percent.
After that, Fiorina, a sore loser, packed up and moved to Virginia, leaving California behind.Now she s Cruz s vice presidential choice (should he win the nomination).
Well, with this rather unusual and obviously pandering move Cruz admitted he needs Fiorina to win California Boxer wasn t going to hold back.Taking to Twitter, Boxer took Fiorina and Ted Cruz to task in the most brilliant way possible:.
@TedCruz talks tough on Iran, but his running mate was soft on Iran when she skirted the law to sell them computer parts.
Barbara Boxer (@BarbaraBoxer) April 27, 2016 Slogan idea for the Cruz/Fiorina ticket : Mean & Meaner Barbara Boxer (@BarbaraBoxer) April 27, 2016Cruz/Fiorina= a perfect match.
He wants to ship immigrants out and she s a champion at shipping jobs out.
Barbara Boxer (@BarbaraBoxer) April 27, 2016 Cruz thinks Fiorina will help in California.
Maybe he doesn t know Carly left after she lost by a million votes?
Barbara Boxer (@BarbaraBoxer) April 27, 2016And this last one is quite possibly the best commentary on the subject:I predict that the latest @CarlyFiorina merger will be as successful as her last one.
Barbara Boxer (@BarbaraBoxer) April 27, 2016John Dingell is the king of Twitter, and now it appears Barbara Boxer is the queen.
If Ted Cruz thinks his new Hail Carly move will secure a win in California, maybe he should have considered just how much of a loser she is in California.If Boxer s prediction is correct, Cruz s merger with Fiorina will be as successful as her last one, and Donald Trump will be the nominee, thus giving us President Hillary Clinton.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty