Kellyanne Conway was sent to meet with congressional staffers on Capitol Hill.
It didn t go well.Conway and Boris Epshteyn apparently spoke to 100 communications staffers representing Republican senators to tell them what roles they are playing in the government, especially since Conway repeatedly lies for Trump on television and clearly has a lot of power in the White House.During one line of questioning, Conway was asked about the 1.5 million Americans who have called the Congressional switchboard to voice their opposition to Donald Trump s Education nominee Betsy DeVos.Conway responded by saying that she only gives a damn about her own Real Person Impact meter and suggested that those 1.5 million Americans are not real human beings because they oppose Trump.
She basically said the people jamming up the phones don t matter to this White House, an attendee told Politico.
That this administration just cares about what matters to real people.
The disdain Conway and Trump have against dissenting Americans is absolutely disgraceful.
She is literally saying that it doesn t matter what the American people think and that Republicans should just shove their agenda down ours throats.But Conway wasn t done humiliating herself on Capitol Hill.After ridiculing the concerns of Americans about DeVos, a staffer asked about her reaction to Saturday Night Live s skit featuring Melissa McCarthy as Sean Spicer.
A staffer said that her face turned to stone and she abruptly ended the meeting and ran away like a coward.
They definitely did not find it funny, the source said.
And then they walked out.
The White House later disputed the claim and proceeded to brag about how Conway received an ovation from the staffers, something that did NOT happen.Clearly, Trump and his team are still delusional and believe that everyone loves them and what they are doing when, in fact, the exact opposite is the truth.Seriously, Kellyanne Conway has no business working in the White House and she definitely has no business being interviewed by the media.
She s a serial liar who makes shit up and whines about any criticism or opposition Trump receives.It s time for her to resign or be fired.Read more:Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images