For months, Donald Trump has denied that Russia meddled in the 2016 Election on his behalf.
That changed on Friday night after his aides apparently failed to take his phone away from him again.In yet another Twitter slip-up, Trump admitted that Russia DID interfere with the election, and then he tried to blame it on President Obama.Just out: The Obama Administration knew far in advance of November 8th about election meddling by Russia.
Did nothing about it.
WHY?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 24, 2017Keep in mind that this tweet comes after months of Trump referring to Russian meddling as fake news and a hoax.
He has also accused Democrats of making up an excuse for why Hillary Clinton lost.
As it turns out, Hillary Clinton lost because Russian hackers messed with our democratic process.Not only did Russian hackers hit voting systems in 39 states across the country, all at the direct order of Vladimir Putin.Rather than take issue with this, Trump has been busy thanking Russia by doing things they want him to do such as not endorsing Amendment 5 of NATO, which provides common defense if a member nation is attacked by Russia.
Trump is also trying to remove sanctions placed on Russia by the Obama Administration and has refused to open an investigation into Russia s cyberattack against us.But the bottom line is that Trump has finally admitted that Russia interfered with the election.Blaming Obama, however, is nothing more than Trump scapegoating in an effort to save his own ass.President Obama did slap sanctions on Russia in retaliation, but he was unable to do anything at the time because Trump was out there claiming that the election was rigged.
If Obama had made a move to stop Russia, Trump would have used it as evidence to support his claim.Twitter users mercilessly mocked Trump for it.um.
already knew about it; and so did you when Obama told you (as we all heard).
That s what the investigation was about.
Do keep up.
Dr. Craig Malkin (@DrCraigMalkin) June 24, 2017Maybe Obama admin trying to figure out why you & Kremlin were saying the same things at the same time while election hacks were occurring pic.twitter.com/HsyDcxUN09 Clint Watts (@selectedwisdom) June 24, 2017Or maybe they were trying to figure out why you would cite Russian false propaganda to mislead Americans and attack a fellow American pic.twitter.com/4Ydq6rfveK Clint Watts (@selectedwisdom) June 24, 2017pic.twitter.com/9pUOmdVzFL Melissa Evans (@melissacevans33) June 24, 2017The sanctions the Trump admin is trying to ease were established by Obama in DECEMBER in response to the hacking https://t.co/1PTn944Jqy Robert Maguire (@RobertMaguire_) June 24, 2017A prison with a view of a golf course he is never allowed to play on.
Joimonki (@joimonki) June 24, 2017Russia hacking and interference is what Trump has called a hoax and fake news .And tarnished + undermined our own Intelligence agencies pic.twitter.com/Y4bu3sNBQp DCResisterBee?
(@DC_Resister_Bee) June 24, 2017Trump insulted the US Intelligence Community which protects our nation falsely accusing of leaks and comparing to Nazis and Russia.
pic.twitter.com/8q5EWkOAwO DCResisterBee?
(@DC_Resister_Bee) June 24, 2017Trump co-opting both narratives: hoax & Obama s fault .
Because.
Diabolic narcissists gaslight American citizens.
Sarah Smith (@SarahLSmith677) June 24, 2017You realize you are admitting Russia put you in the White House which technically means you shouldn t be President.
Why are you so dumb?
Daniel Danger Marin (@dangermarin) June 24, 2017It s not only time to oust Trump and his entire administration, it s time to hold a new presidential election.
It is clear that Russia attacked our democracy to help Trump win.
Therefore, Trump and his administration are totally illegitimate.Featured Image: Joe Raedle/Getty Images