Vicente Fox, the former president of Mexico who served from 2000 to 2006, has spoken openly about his disdain for Republican front-runner Donald Trump before, but this time he has a special message to give the business mogul.In an op-ed The Guardian released on Wednesday, Fox actually thanked Trump for his disgraceful and highly offensive language, while also brutally condemning the racist, vulgar candidate.
In the column entitled Let s raise our voices against this dictator, Donald Trump, Fox wrote: Trump has said Mexicans are the problem, calling us rapists and criminals.
He thinks building the Trump Wall will right every wrong in the United States.
Indeed, he s built a huge mental wall around himself already, which doesn t allow him to see the greatness of our people.Despite that, I want to thank him for his racist and ignorant ideas.
Thanks to them, Mexico is in the global spotlight; every day, more and more people inside and outside the United States are realizing the decent way Mexicans live their lives.
Fox then gave some amazing examples about how Trump s hate speech has actually helped to elevate the success of the Mexicans Trump spends so much time insulting: This year, a Mexican cinematographer won his third Academy Award in a row.
In science and technology, a number of young and bright Mexicans won the International Robotics Tournament in 2015.
And in Silicon Valley, one of the key advisers during the creation of Google was a Mexican professor: Hector Garc a Molina.
Fox went further and condemned Trump s hateful rhetoric as a lose-lose proposition, stating that isolating immigrants will only hurt America, as they have already contributed so much to this country something that Trump conveniently ignores whenever he s in anti-immigrant mode (even though he himself has relied on many immigrants to run his businesses and properties).
Fox said: He says that he ll make America great again, but I believe he s only making it worse.
America is already great, largely thanks to the hard work and perseverance of immigrants from all over the world who made it their home.
Did you know that 40% of the Fortune 500 companies in the United States have been founded by immigrants?
You can read the entire scathing message to Trump here.It s honestly always a pleasure whenever Fox attacks Trump he never disappoints.
Fox s criticism is consistently dead-on, like the time that he said Trump reminded him of Hitler, or when he epically shut down Trump s idea that Mexico would pay for his stupid f*cking wall (which is so great, you can watch it below if you haven t seen it already):Fox ends his op-ed with a powerful call-to-action to all immigrants, Americans and people around the world to resist Trump and his divisive rhetoric: I ask every Mexican, inside and outside our country, every American and the rest of the world to stand together.
Let us not divide our dreams and opportunities; let us be inspired by compassion and true leadership.
Let s raise our voice against this dictator and together let s walk towards harmony and prosperity all over the globe.
Featured image via Vicente Fox Twitter