Neil deGrasse Tyson is generally hesitates before weighing in on political matters, but when it comes to anti-science politicians, he has little patience.
That was evidenced on Friday morning when Tyson tweeted something fairly uncharacteristic about Donald Trump.
When I meet President Trump, Tyson tweeted, I may first grab his crotch to get his attention then discuss Science with him.
When I meet President Trump, I may first grab his crotch to get his attention then discuss Science with him.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) November 18, 2016Clearly, that s a reference to two things: The fact that Trump was caught on video bragging that women even let him grab their pussies because he s famous.
The second, and probably most significant to Tyson, is that Trump seems to be anti-science.
Tyson s not the only one to share that concern.Scientific researchers across the nation are concerned about the fact that Trump, who s a climate change denier and has expressed doubts about the efficacy of vaccines, will do some serious damage to scientific progress in the coming years.
More than anything, scientists are concerned with Trump s stated desire to cut funding to agencies like the National Institute of Health, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Education (which helps train future scientists) and the Department of Energy.While it s doubtful Tyson would actually grab Trump s crotch, it s even more doubtful that our nation s most famous astrophysicist would ever get an audience with the new President Elect.
Most of Tyson s followers were all for it, but some, as captured by New Century Times, were not.The tweet has since been removed from Twitter.
Instead, Tyson said this:Actually, were I to meet President Trump I d discuss with him what science is and how & why it workshttps://t.co/6bv5IcNkrH Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) November 18, 2016His followers, though, were happy with his first idea:@neiltyson While holding him firmly by the testicles Stonekettle (@Stonekettle) November 18, 2016@neiltyson yeah, good luck with that.
At least the grabbing would ve got his attention.
?
Cathy Diaz (@CathyofTO) November 18, 2016Featured image via Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images.