Republicans care more about protecting rapists than they do about the women they raped.Kentucky GOP Senator Dan Seum made that clear during a committee hearing for a bill that would require people arrested for committing felonies to provide their DNA to law enforcement.Rape survivor Michelle Kuiper courageously testified as a witness in favor of Senate Bill 150 along with a mother whose daughter had been raped and brutally murdered and a man who spent 18 years in prison after being wrongfully convicted of rape before DNA found the real rapist.But during Kuiper s testimony, Seum became the latest Republican to deliver offensive and insensitive remarks about rape, only this time the remarks were made directly in the face of a rape victim.
I understand your pain, Seum claimed before telling Kuiper that her rape is not as important as protecting her rapist from government intrusion.
But I can tell you I have eight children and 21 grandkids, that over the years this government through its intrusion has done more damage to me than all those criminals out there ever did, he callously continued.You read that right.
A Republican literally told a rape victim that the unwanted intrusion of her body by her rapist is less important than making sure the rapist is shielded from the government.According to the Courier-Journal:Seum did not elaborate on what type of government intrusion he experienced.
But at a Judiciary Committee meeting last month, he said that he had been called as a witness several years ago in a child abuse case in family court where the father was accused of spanking his child.
He didn t provide any further details.Kuiper, however, was severely shaken by the ordeal.
I was shaken and felt sick after his comments, Kuiper said.
Basically, he had told us he had suffered worse crimes than us.
Democratic state Rep. Sannie Overly blasted Seum for his remarks and called for her colleague to apologize to every woman in Kentucky for brushing off their safety in favor of defending rapists.
A rape victim brave enough to step forward and share her personal story of a heinous crime should not get a lecture.
He should apologize to these people and all Kentucky women who have experienced this horrific crime.
The bill eventually passed 6-4 despite Seum voting against it, but once again, a Republican lawmaker demonstrates that the GOP still doesn t care about women who are raped.Earlier this year, a Republican in Idaho with five daughters of his own made incredibly creepy claims about rape.
Now, I m of the understanding that in many cases of rape it does not involve any pregnancy because of the trauma of the incident, GOP state Rep. Nielsen said during a hearing on an abortion bill.
That may be true with incest a little bit I read a lot of information.
I have read it several times.
Being a father of five girls, I ve explored this a lot.
And these latest Republican remarks about rape and rape victims are now part of an ever growing list of quotes that Republicans have made over the years demonstrating their callous disregard of women and their ignorance of the female reproductive process.
You can read a comprehensive list of such quotes here.Seriously, if there were ever a more important time for women to flock to the voting booth against Republicans, this November would be the time.
Featured image via YouTube