As much as you may want Sarah Palin to drift off into obscurity, you know you can t get enough of her crazy.
It s always entertaining, because you really don t know what she s going to say or do next.
Then, when she partnered up with Trump for his campaign, it was a comedic writer s dream come true.
It really doesn t get much better than that in regards to a tag-team of lunacy.Not to disappoint, Palin took to the Politicon stage in Pasadena, CA, to promote Trump with what we can only assume are sentences in her own mind.
However, she is saying words, so, here a few of them: They whispered that they re going to throw in for Hillary against the will of the people in their own primary, and this exposed the establishment s con game.
More people learn it doesn t matter to the Beltway bubble boys and girls which side wins elections, as long as they get to keep their titles and their ratings and their power and their purses full.
They win, we lose.
Bubble boys kinky.Palin keeps going with this establishment phrase, because you know, it was probably on her word-a-day toilet paper.
She said: The establishment, those profiles in pudding, they bent over for all those things, and now they fret about ideological, lily-white purity.
I ll let you read that again to really soak that in Profiles in pudding, bent over, lily-white yeah, she just said all those things in one sentence.Then, while trying to say that even many Republicans are starting to back Hillary Clinton, she said: They re not all thumbsuckers, they re not all bad .
I m kidding they are.
Hillary thanks them, because she knows she can t win without them.
Actually, Palin, she can win without them, but seeing them embrace sanity over crazy is something to admire.She then rambles on a bit, then offers us this gem about Trump relating to Americans: He gratefully shakes skilled, calloused hands and tugs tight the blue-collar, and he salutes in awe of sacrifice, the American in uniform.
It s connection through appreciation, and I do wish you all could know him on that personal level.
Palin apparently forgets that he recently threw our military under the bus, claimed to raise funds for them, but didn t, and also got five deferments of his own so he didn t have to serve.
He also wouldn t know a hard days work if it was in front of his face and wouldn t know calloused hands if they were the ones stroking his ever-ginormous ego.
He s an absolute fraud.But Palin being Palin, she ignores facts and reality and continues to say words in no particular order.Watch Palin speak here:Featured image via video screen capture