When it comes to strategizing an offense against Donald Trump and the Republicans, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King s daughter Bernice King might just be on to something.While the words and actions of Trump are horrific all by themselves, it s important to remember that he is not working alone.
He has the support of those working closely around him and the support of the Republican party.
So far, they ve been backing his ideas and confirming all his nominations for his Cabinet.Here s what King has to say about all of this:Some Wise Advice Circulating:1.
Use [Trump s] name sparingly so as not to detract from the issues.
I believe that everyone, regardless of their beliefs, deserves the dignity of being called by their name.
However, this is a strategic tactic.
While we are so focused on him we are prone to neglect the questionable policies that threaten freedom, justice and fairness advanced by the administration.2.
Remember this is a regime and he s not acting alone;3.
Do not argue with those who support him and his policies it doesn t work;4.
Focus on his policies, not his appearance and mental state;5.
Keep your message positive; those who oppose peace and justice want the country to be angry and fearful because this is the soil from which their darkest policies will grow;6.
No more helpless/hopeless talk;7.
Support artists and the arts;8.
Be careful not to spread fake news.
Check it;9.
Take care of yourselves; and10.
Resist!Keep demonstrations peaceful.
In the words of John Lennon, When it gets down to having to use violence, then you are playing the system s game.
The establishment will irritate you pull your beard, flick your face to make you fight!
Because once they ve got you violent, then they know how to handle you.
The only thing they don t know how to handle is non-violence and humor.
When you post or talk about him, don t assign his actions to him, assign them to The Republican Administration, or The Republicans.
This will have several effects: the Republican legislators will either have to take responsibility for their association with him or stand up for what some of them don t like; he will not get the focus of attention he craves; Republican representatives will become very concerned about their re-elections.
King posts this only one day after Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) got shut down by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) on the Senate floor for reading Coretta Scott King s letter from 30 years ago condemning Jeff Sessions.It s time to remember that it s not only Trump we have the responsibility to hold accountable, but all Republicans, and this post from Bernice King is definitely a good start.Read more:Featured Photo by Hulton Archive/Getty Images