Supreme Court Justic Sotomayor went on a racist rant about how law enforcement has targeted minorities and put fear in black and brown people: It is no secret that people of color are disproportionate victims of this type of scrutiny.
She s weighed in before in a racist manner: I would hope that a wise Latina woman with the richness of her experiences would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male who hasn t lived that life Supreme Court Justice SotomayorSotomayor once again brings her racist view to the court clouding her decisions on ALL Americans:Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor on Monday issued a vehement dissent in a Fourth Amendment case writing that the majority s opinion sanctions police stops that corrode all our civil liberties and threaten all our lives.
The fiery objection came on case where a Utah man challenged his arrest based on a stop that was later found to be unlawful.
The 5-3 majority opinion, Sotomayor wrote, will have dramatic ramifications for law-abiding citizens targeted by police, especially minorities.
It is no secret that people of color are disproportionate victims of this type of scrutiny, she wrote.
For generations, black and brown parents have given their children the talk instructing them never to run down the street; always keep your hands where they can be seen; do not even think of talking back to a stranger all out of fear of how an officer with a gun will react to them.
By legitimizing the conduct that produces this double consciousness, this case tells everyone, white and black, guilty and innocent, that an officer can verify your legal status at any time, she added.
It says that your body is subject to invasion while courts excuse the violation of your rights.
It implies that you are not a citizen of a democracy but the subject of a carceral state, just waiting to be cataloged.
With four major decisions due in the next week, including cases on affirmative action, abortion and immigration, Sotomayor s anger signals that what has been a quiet term since the death of Justice Antonin Scalia could get increasingly contentious.
Whether born from experience or inherent physiological or cultural differences, she said, for jurists who are women and nonwhite, our gender and national origins may and will make a difference in our judging.
Via: CNN