Marine Corps Veteran Frank Biggio appreciates your recognition of his services, but he doesn t want it anymore.
This year is far too important.
Instead, he says, he wants you to vote and he wants you to vote for Hillary Clinton.In an op-ed in Cleveland.com, Biggio outlined strong differences between the two major party candidates, and for him, Trump is unacceptable:One of our options includes a man who has glibly spoken about using nuclear weapons in Europe and the Middle East and seems unconcerned about nuclear proliferation by other countries simply because it is going to happen anyway; who fails to comprehend the deterrent effect of U.S. troops in South Korea against increasingly belligerent threats by North Korea; who would allow NATO member states on Russia s western border to fall to Kremlin aggressions unless they pay up; and who has denigrated the family of an Army captain killed in action while serving his country.This is a mercurial man who will have almost unchecked authority to put uniformed men and women in harm s way, but whose understanding of foreign affairs and military strategy is based almost solely on his instincts rather than analysis.Biggio goes on to say that he has served under many commanders and none of them have resorted to primitive and distracting antics like belligerent shouting or chest thumping.
He also wrote about how every commander he s served under is humble with victories and takes responsibility for failures.
Trump, he said, would never credit his team for success and he d never take blame for failure.
Instead, Biggio compared Trump to the fictional Captain Queeg in The Caine Mutiny :Trump is no Eisenhower.
He s more like the fictional Captain Queeg played by Humphrey Bogart in The Caine Mutiny paranoid, erratic, condescending and ultimately incompetent.
There are many other apt analogies, but each is equally frightening when thinking of Trump directing the deployment of our military to today s ambiguous front lines, perhaps just to prove that he can.Biggio is concerned for the 2.2 million members of the military if Trump is elected:Will we elect a man who, without offering any clarity, boasts that he will be so good at the military, your head will spin, as if his high school graduation from a military academy validates that claim, and hopes that the electorate will simply trust that will be so?
Whose behavior and public comments cause a collective group of 50 foreign policy experts, most of whom are from the Republican Party and have at one time sat in the White House Situation Room and contemplated the implications and repercussions of deploying our military, to publicly denounce him and the security and foreign policy positions he has proposed?Biggio agrees with many that Clinton is not without flaws (who is?
), but he admires and respects her experience, her pragmatism and the fact that she knows when to be decisive and when to exhibit restraint:This Election Day, please thank me for my service by voting for Hillary Clinton as our president and commander in chief.We will, Major Biggio.Featured image via Cherie Cullen/Getty Images.