The Patriot Spring is coming This excellent piece by Geert Wilders predicts an awakening of national pride in Europe and in America A revolution, Wikipedia says, is a fundamental change in political power or organizational structures that take place in a relatively short period of time when the population rises up in revolt against the current authorities.
In Europe and America, revolutions are brewing.
They are peaceful and democratic, but they are going to send the elites home that are running our nations into the ground.I have just reread Ronald Reagan s 1982 Westminster speech, in which he predicted that freedom and democracy would soon send the communist dictatorships in Eastern Europe and Russia to the ash heap of history.
Reagan spoke of Poland s struggle to be Poland.
And today, three decades later, history is about to repeat itself in the United States and in several West European countries.
Of course, I am not comparing our current political elite with the Communist dictatorships with their prison cells for dissidents, but the fight of a nation to be itself, remain itself and defend its identity, that fight is also being waged today.We are witnessing America s struggle to be America, and the struggle of several European nations, among them the Netherlands, Britain, France, Germany and many others to preserve their identity and liberty, to remain the Netherlands, Britain, France, Germany.
Everywhere, patriots are on the march.
We are living the Patriot Spring.Everywhere, democratic revolutions are underway.
They will drive the elites from power.
People are sick and tired of seeing their nations lose.
They are fed up with how the political and media elites are weakening their country.
They want to regain their national sovereignty from supranational organizations such as the European Union.
They want to get rid of the fake parliaments that sell out the national interests because they no longer stand for what the majority of the people want.
They want brave and patriot politicians in the legislatures.
They also want more direct democracy, so that the people can correct those who misrepresent them.For decades, Westerners have been told by their elites that multiculturalism was a virtue and patriotism a thing of the past.
The values of the middle classes with their common sense, rooted in the traditions and morals passed down by their parents, were undermined and ridiculed by the mindless political correctness of the educational system, the government apparatus, and the mainstream media.
The economic prosperity of the people was squandered by high taxes, foolish monetary experiments, and bailouts for foreign countries.
Our nation first became our nation last.
The elites applaud politicians such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
President Obama praised her for her leadership.
Time dubbed her Chancellor of the Free World, for one single reason.
Because she has foolishly sold out the safety and wellbeing of her own people to hordes of largely male fortune seekers who rather than fight for their own country, have come to live on German taxpayers money.Frau Merkel is not the only Western politician conducting policies that harm the interests of her own people.
In fact, most of our Western leaders, including my own Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, are politically correct adherents of detrimental open door policies.
Before the year in which Angela Merkel became Person of the Year was over, Germany experienced its own sexual 9/11.
On New Year s Eve in Cologne alone, over 1,000 women were assaulted, groped, raped.
So far, 30 suspects have been caught.
All of them North-Africans, and half of those asylum seekers.
Also in other West European countries we see a rise of sexual assaults.Unlike the ruling elites in politics, media, and academia, ordinary people recognize an existential threat when they see one.
Years ago already, they have begun to realize that the democratic institutions in their national capitals no longer represent the will of the people.
They realize that time is running out for the West, and that the moment has come for a democratic revolution to halt the folly of the elites, otherwise our superior Western civilization will perish, our nation will change beyond recognition, and our children s future will be endangered.
It is clear what millions of Europeans and Americans want.
They want to protect national sovereignty, stop the tsunami of asylum seekers, close the borders to mass immigration, stop spending their taxes on foreigners, they want leaders who truly represent them and defend the national interest.
They do not want their countries to be Islamized.And that is why we should add a new chapter to the long list of historical examples of people standing up for democracy and freedom.
Let us add the Patriot Spring of 2016 to the list.
And let us all be part of it.Geert Wilders, a member of the Dutch Parliament, is the leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) and the author of Marked for Death: Islam s War Against the West and Me, published by Regnery.Via: Breitbart