Someone isn t happy with the current possibilities for Secretary of State and is expanding the search.
Apparently, there are two new candidates, and they aren t politicians.
They aren t former or current military.
They aren t everyday Joes.
They aren t even Wall Street execs, but they might as well be.
They re Big Oil executives.And they aren t just any Big Oil execs.
One is Rex Tillerson, the current CEO of ExxonMobil, and the other, Lee Raymond, is the former CEO of ExxonMobil.
ExxonMobil is our biggest oil giant.How bloody fantastic is that?
Putting Big Oil in charge of the Department of State, arguably the most important cabinet position there is.
There could be any number of reasons for this, but Trump s insistence that we should have taken Iraq s oil is one that comes to mind.That s not very likely, though.
ExxonMobil is partnered with Rosneft, Russia s state-owned oil company.
So ultimately, Putin is in charge of Rosneft and ExxonMobil is Putin s partner.
It could be that Trump is trying to tie us more closely to Russia, and that seems far more plausible.It s also entirely possible Trump thinks he might be able to use the Department of State to further his own business interests if he nominates a CEO, although the CEO of an oil company isn t exactly who we d think of if this were the case.
Not to mention that he d be putting someone in a position that could potentially be abused for the purpose of furthering their own business interests abroad.Tillerson supports the idea of man-made climate change, and ExxonMobil s position on the Paris climate accord is favorable.
However, Tillerson also made more than $25 million last year, so there s another wealthy business insider to build that levee on Trump s swamp higher so it floods, rather than drains.Trump kicked off his victory tour today by saying America first, in an Indiana speech.
Perhaps he s deluded himself into thinking that expanding his search for a Secretary of State to Big Oil executives is exactly that.
However, it doesn t really mesh well with what everyday Americans thought he meant when he said, America first.
It smacks of serious cronyism.Filling his cabinet with wealthy Wall Street financiers, CEOs, and Washington insiders is the polar opposite of what he campaigned on.
There s no telling what an ExxonMobil CEO would do as Secretary of State.
There s no telling whether he d even be able to do the job.
Trump is either continuing to serve his own ends, curry favor somewhere, or he really is completely clueless.Watch a short report from Rachel Maddow on this below:MSNBC has learned that Donald Trump has expanded his secretary of state search to Exxon executives.
https://t.co/QsxL5PG8Bq Maddow Blog (@MaddowBlog) December 2, 2016Featured image via screen capture from embedded video