Breibart editor Milo Yiannopoulos is the obnoxious little twerp who got banned from Twitter for inciting his fans to viciously attack comedian Leslie Jones in an effort to humiliate her.Now karma has finally turned the tables on Yiannopoulos.During an interview with ABC s Terry Moran that will air on Nightline this Friday, Yiannopoulos was the one who got humiliated this time as Moran took this asshole who has the maturity of a 12-year-old boy to school.Yiannopoulos began by calling himself a virtuous troll who is doing God s work.
If Leslie Jones were right here, would you say, You look like a dude ?
Moran asked.
Yeah, probably, Yiannopoulos replied.
You would say that to her?
a disgusted Moran said.Once again, Yiannopoulos has zero remorse for his ugly attack and said he would do it again, which led to Moran smacking the Breitbart bully down.
Then you re an idiot, Moran told him.Yiannopoulos argued that he is not responsible for what his fans do even though it was his sexism and hate that made Jones a target for harassment in the first place.
Does Justin Bieber have an obligation to his fans?
I m sorry for being popular.
But I am not responsible for what 350,000 people on the Internet say.
I m responsible for what I say.
Yeah, and what you said incited your fans to attack as if they were your own personal army of Internet trolls.
If Justin Beiber launched a Twitter tirade against Selena Gomez that resulted in his fans attacking her, he would be responsible for it.
Just like Yiannopoulos is responsible for the attack on Jones.Words have consequences and Yiannopoulos is finding that out the hard way.Moran responded by putting Yiannopoulis in his place with an epic smackdown that is incredibly enjoyable to watch.
You re going to go after somebody s body to denigrate their ideas?
What grade are you in?
Are you a 13-year-old boy?
Because somebody doesn t have a weight that you think is proper?
That s revolting.
And Yiannopoulos responded by being a misogynist asshole.
I ll tell you what s revolting.
What s revolting is the body positivity movement.
What s revolting is this idea now that you can tell women that they ll be healthy at any size.
Here s the video via YouTube:Trolls like Yiannopoulos should be banned from using the Internet entirely.
He should not have a platform to bully others and spread his hate.
And of course, he s a supporter of Donald Trump, which makes him even more of a prick.
But you can bet that sexist trolls like Yiannopoulos will become even more emboldened if the Republican nominee should win in November, which makes it even more important that he lose by a humiliating landslide.Featured Image: Screenshot