We often hear about the liberal media s attempts to swing everything to the left.
This myth of media bias is often repeated on Fox News, on right-wing blogs, and basically anywhere conservatives gather.
The liberal media, according to them, seeks to destroy everything good and pure like the right to discriminate against the gays and the blacks, and impose a Christofascist theocracy on our nation.
According to legend, the most liberal of the 24-hour news networks is MSNBC.Unfortunately, even MSNBC seems to be shifting to the Right lately.
On Monday, the news network deleted a clip that was unfavorable to, of all people, Ted Cruz.The clip in question was from Sunday s edition of Meet the Press, and featured host Chuck Todd expressing nothing short of disgust as Cruz spoke.
In the clip, as Cruz compares recently-deceased hatemonger and Supreme Court Justice, Antonin Scalia, to Ronald Reagan.
Todd can be heard, almost imperceptibly, muttering Oh god as Cruz makes the comparison:CRUZ: And, Chuck, just as Ronald Reagan was to the Presidency, so Antonin Scalia was to the Supreme Court.
He had that big an impact.TODD: Oh God.CRUZ: And I think his passing yesterday really underscores the stakes of this election.After reports began to circulate, MSNBC could have being the liberal media and all published a statement explaining that, yes, Todd was a bit astonished by the stupidity of Cruz s statement, even considering how terrible Reagan was (let s face it: Scalia was much, much worse).
Instead, they pulled the clip.
The only reason, the only reason this would have happened would be to protect Cruz from embarrassment.
This is the clip, with audio enhanced to make the phrase clear:According to Mediaite, MSNBC has re-aired the clip, and only now, they have scrubbed Todd s aside from the conversation.
The new clip does, indeed, seem to be missing the words Oh, god.
This revisionism, sadly, paints MSNBC in a bad light.
As a news organization, they have a responsibility to report the truth.
In this case, they removed audio from a report in order to save themselves some trouble.The Right loves to paint MSNBC as dishonest.
In this case, they were.Tell MSNBC it is not OK to dishonestly edit their reports by clicking this link.
The last thing we need is another Fox News.Watch the new clip below:Featured image via screengrab