FBI director James Comey on Friday and other Intelligence agency chiefs provided legislators with a classified briefing on Russian involvement in the U.S. presidential election.
That information was so damning that Democrats were outraged.A number of House Democrats left the confidential briefing fuming over the actions of FBI Director James Comey and they are now convinced that he s unfit to lead the agency.We don t know the details but we know they were unnerved when they left: I was nonjudgmental until the last 15 minutes.
I no longer have that confidence in him, Rep. Tim Walz (D-Minn.), ranking member of the Veterans Affairs Committee, said as he left the meeting in the Capitol.
Some of the things that were revealed in this classified briefing my confidence has been shook, he added.Rep.
Elijah Cummings (Md.
), the senior Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said he is concerned.
I m extremely concerned extremely, he said.
I ll just I m very angry, said Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.).All of the acronymic U.S. Intelligence agencies agree that Russia hacked Democratic groups in order to help elect Donald Trump.
It s not just in the U.S.
This has gone global.
The BBC says that intelligence agents in Europe believe there is much more compromising and embarrassing material about Donald Trump in the possession of the Kremlin than previously believed.Just weeks before the Nov. 8 election, Comey announced in a letter that the FBI was launching an investigation into the use of a private email server by Hillary Clinton.
Then, just two days before the election, he announced that they came up empty.That letter helped to sway the election.
Trump s Crooked Hillary rhetoric and Comey s move was a campaign to diminish his rival to the public.Lawmakers are not allowed to reveal the information they received since it was a classified briefing.Comey has to answer for his actions:The Justice Department s inspector general on Thursday announced a new investigation into the agency s actions leading up to the election, a probe that will focus on Comey s public statements as well as FBI leaks and other relevant correspondences.Republicans simply do not care.
The FBI director is a good man who was placed in a very difficult position, said Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.).
His boss [U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch] made life very difficult for him in the last year when she met with Bill Clinton on the tarmac.
I want to [have faith in Comey], said a visibly annoyed Rep. Charlie Crist (D-Fla.).
I have concerns.
Stay tuned.
I m disappointed, outraged many of us are right now, Walz said.
I ll wait to pass full judgment, but the exchange that just happened in the final 15 minutes gives me no reason to have confidence.
Shortly after the meeting, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said she has not lost confidence in the agency.
No, I haven t lost confidence in the agency, she said.
Pelosi expressed concern over the timing.
And that was the judgment of Director Comey, unless it goes deeper, and that s what the investigation will find out, she continued.
Let s find out how they thought this was a good idea to make the judgments they did, and understanding weighing full well that the Russians were actively engaged in disrupting our election.
Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images.