Christian fundamentalists just can t keep their mouths shut, and they wonder why people are turning away from organized religion.A supposed Christian author took to Facebook on Saturday to condemn women who use sex toys and masturbate to Hell, claiming that both are a direct path to Satan and declared that any Christian who disagrees should be ashamed.
Too many Christian women are losing their salvation because they masturbate.
author Mack Major wrote.
Dildos and all of those other sex toys have been used for thousands of years in demonic sex rituals.
It s one of the main ways ancient pagan societies worshiped their demonic gods.Masturbation is a direct path to Satan.
There s nothing normal about it.
And shame on any Christian that says so.
Hypocritically enough, Major seems to only take issue with women achieving sexual pleasure by themselves while avoiding the topic of male masturbation.
Apparently that s acceptable.Mack goes on to warn on his blog that women are inviting demons into the world by masturbating.
Many of you who are reading this have sex toys in your possession right now.
And whether you want to accept it as fact or not: those sex toys are an open portal between the demonic realm and your own life.
As long as you have those sex toys in your home, you have a doorway that can allow demons to not only access your life at will, but also to torment you, hinder and destroy certain parts of your life as it relates to sex and your relationships.
Major also has a problem with women getting tattoos and piercings and tells them how to dress in church.This is the kind of crap women have to put up with from conservative Christians every day and it s only getting worse as some Christian pastors have gone so far as to call for women to lose voting rights and for women to be confined to the home.Again, it s bewildering how these same Christians can complain about dropping church attendance and fail to see that they are the ones causing people to walk away from the church in the first place.Featured Image: Wikimedia