The Democratic Party is poised to have a convention filled with powerhouse speakers that will dwarf the lineup of has-beens the GOP deployed.The Republican National Convention had unemployed actor Scott Baio and desperate Republicans who actually decided to show up.
The Democratic Party will have New Jersey Senator Cory Booker, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders and they will have Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren in a spot that could very well set her up as Hillary Clinton s successor.Elizabeth Warren has successfully gotten under the thin skin of Donald Trump for months.
Every time he attacks her on Twitter she responds by destroying him.In recognition of her efforts and her status as a defender of the poor and middle class in America against corporate exploitation, Warren has been chosen to deliver the keynote address at the DNC this week.Warren will be only the third woman to deliver the keynote speech.
The first being Rep. Barbara Jordan in 1976, followed by beloved former Texas Governor and women s rights crusader Ann Richards in 1988.
And while neither of those two women would go on to run for president, Elizabeth Warren stands on the cusp of history in the making.
Hillary Clinton looks to become the first female president in American history.
If she wins and serves with distinction, it could pave the way for Warren s rise as her successor in 2024 should she be willing to take on the mantle.As you may recall, a man named Barack Obama delivered the keynote address at the DNC Convention in 2004.
Four years later he became the first African-American president in the United States.While the keynote address does not guarantee anyone of future presidential aspirations, it does mean a great deal to those who care about what the message of the party is.
Warren is decidedly on the progressive wing of the Democratic Party, so she will more than likely focus on progressive issues such as raising the minimum wage, better healthcare, climate change, and working with our allies abroad while promoting tolerance and diversity.
Clinton may not have chosen Warren as her running mate, but giving the keynote is a high honor and it gives Warren the opportunity to put progressive policies in the spotlight.
This is especially important as Hillary continues to woo supporters of Bernie Sanders to her campaign.This keynote selection screams that Hillary Clinton is inching more to the left as progressives have been hoping and it gives progressives a bigger place at the table than they have had in many years.
Combined with the platform changes Bernie Sanders was able to insert, this could signal a progressive agenda is on the way if Sanders supporters are patient enough to let it happen gradually instead of all at once.The shift to the left could also mean that a more progressive candidate than Hillary Clinton could very well succeed her.
That means progressivism has a bright future if they make sure a Democrat is elected to succeed President Obama in November.
Because Donald Trump sure won t advance progressive policies.Featured image via Chris Somodevilla/Getty Images