Donald Trump just sank to a new embarrassing low on the world stage.Sitting presidents usually do not attack their predecessors, especially during visits to other nations.
And especially not in nations where the predecessor is popular.Such as the case in Poland, where President Obama is respected and supported.But Trump launched an attack on President Obama anyway during a press conference alongside Polish President Duda on Wednesday that included a whole lot of lies and a suggestion that Obama committed treason.After being asked to definitively admit that Russia meddled with the 2016 Election, Trump teeter-tottered before blaming President Obama and claimed Obama knew about Russian interference and did nothing.
I think it was Russia and I think it could have been a lot of people interfered, Trump said.
I said it very simply.
I think it could very well have been Russia, but I think it well could have been other countries, and I won t be specific, but I think a lot of people interfere.
Why did he [Obama] do nothing about it?
Trump continued.
He was told it was Russia by the CIA as I understand it.
It was well reported and he did nothing about it.
I think it s been happening for a long time.
It s been happening for many years.
Now, the thing I have to mention is that Barack Obama when he was president found out about this in terms of if it were Russia.
Found out about it in August.
Now, the election was in November.
That s a lot of time.
He did nothing about it.
Here s the video via YouTube.In fact, President Obama did warn Russia in September to cease their hacking activities.
Russia didn t obey and President Obama slapped sanctions against them in retaliation.
Also, there was not a lot Obama could do since Trump was out there claiming that the election is rigged.
Had Obama stopped Russia from helping Trump win, Trump would have accused Obama of rigging the election against him.If Trump is so confident that President Obama is to blame for Russian interference, why is he trying so hard to sabotage the Russia investigation?Once again, America becomes even more of a laughingstock around the globe because Trump refuses to keep his mouth shut and remain civil in public.Featured Image: Screenshot