This year was a rough one and many of us can t wait for it to be over.
Not only did America endure a very emotionally volatile, stressful election, but several amazing celebrities had passed away unexpectedly.The year 2016 had already seen the deaths of amazing celebrities such as George Michael, David Bowie, Prince, Alan Thicke and Muhammad Ali.
Most recently, beloved actress Carrie Fisher and her mother, fellow actress Debbie Reynolds, have passed on.
As America wept over this tragedy, actor Charlie Sheen took to Twitter to express his feelings over these recent deaths, as well as send a strong message to Donald Trump.
In a tweet that immediately drew criticism, Sheen called on God to take Trump s life next, complete with a middle finger emoji:Twitter As the country was still mourning the death of Fisher and her mother, the tweet was liked and retweeted thousands of times.
But despite the fact that the majority of America is repulsed by Trump and did not vote for him by any means, Sheen s tweet was also rejected by many.
As multiple people came forward to denounce Sheen s ill-advised message, the opposing consensus was clear joking about someone s death is NOT funny, no matter who it is.
Here are some of those responses:Twitter Some even brought up Sheen s own dirt, giving him a humbling reality check:TwitterTwitterTwitter While most of us could agree that Trump is absolutely repulsive and undeserving as the next leader of our country, joking about a President-elect s death is nothing but distasteful.
One Twitter user even pointed out that there shouldn t be a double standard even though Trump is an absolute moron: Imagine a Hollywood celebrity tweeting their wish for Obama s death.
That would be CNN s lead story in seconds.
To quote First Lady Michelle Obama, When they go low, we go high.
Yes, 2016 was a trying, emotional roller coaster and with Trump taking the White House in January, 2017 will likely be just as hard if not worse.
But we can t allow this disastrous president-elect to devolve us into people like his supporters.
After all, Trump himself once called for Hillary Clinton s death during his presidential campaign.
We must never stoop to his level, because rising above hatred and fear is the only way Trump can be defeated.Featured image via Christopher Polk/Getty Images