The Daily Show needs to go after Fox News more often because Jon Stewart would definitely be proud of this.Earlier this week, Bill O Reilly sent his goon, Jesse Watters to Chinatown in New York City to make fun of Asians using every stereotype in the book.
Watters asked the residents, some of whom couldn t speak English, everything from if they know karate to if they can take care of North Korea for us.Asian American organizations were not amused and swiftly condemned Fox for the segment and demanded an apology.But nobody ripped Fox News a new one better than Daily Show correspondent Ronny Chieng.
First of all, let me get this straight they say China in the debate so you go to Chinatown?
In New York?
Chieng frustratingly asked.
So, when they mention Mexico, do you send someone to Taco Bell?
Chinatown is nothing like China!
They have nothing to do with each other.
It s like if I want to talk about women s rights, I decide to go to Fox News to get opinions.
But it was nothing compared to the idiocy that followed, Chieng continued.After showing some of the footage Fox put together, which included Watters asking if he should bow and if it s the year of the dragon, Chieng went off on him.
No, it s actually the year of go f*ck yourself!
Chien yelled before taking Watters to the woodshed for all the racist stereotypes he used for the segment.
If you re going to with racist, at least get your stereotypes right, you ignorant sack of sh*t!
Karate isn t Chinese it s Japanese and you re doing it in a tae kwon do studio which is Korean, you f*cking jackoff!
Jackoff!
Jackoff!
F*ck this guy!
And, seriously, Mr. Miyagi?
Update your reference material.
That s like me making fun of Americans for Saturday Night Fever and Mr. T. But that s wasn t the end.
Watters also got his ass handed to him for trying to talk to residents who didn t understand English.
A*shole, they don t speak English, that s why they re silent, Chieng said.
It s easy to make fun of someone when they can t respond.
I ll show you.
Chieng threw an image of Watters on the screen and began asking him questions and each question was epic.
Hey, douchebag, why do you look like a guy who carries around a pack of roofies just in case?
Why do you look like you have a hooker on speed dial?
And is it hard to fit Bill O Reilly s entire scrotum in your mouth?
And in the final take-down of Watters and O Reilly, Chieng spoke with Chinese Americans himself about the segment, asking one about Jesse Watters.
This is how he replied.
The chickensh*t reporter who came here and thought he was funny because he talked to people who couldn t speak English?
The one who was sent here by the larger chickensh*t who wouldn t come into Chinatown because he was afraid to do it himself?
The one with no testicles, who came down here, who said let me talk to some old people and let me put them on camera without asking them and sort of put them on national television and made fun of them in the worst possible way?
As I said before, EPIC.Here s the video via The Daily Show.The Daily Show has largely chose not to go after Fox News very much since Jon Stewart left, and that has been an absolute shame.
So you know Fox News did something incredibly outrageous when the Daily Show really has no choice but to cover it and mock it relentlessly.
Let s just hope they focus on slamming Fox more often.Featured Image via screencap.