As Meryl Streep delivered a smack down for the ages aimed at Donald Trump, conservative actors Mel Gibson and Vince Vaughn could be seen sitting together silently seething.During the Golden Globes on Sunday, Streep took aim at Trump without mentioning his name, specifically pointing out his attack on a disabled reporter as an example of his bullying.
There was nothing good about it, Streep said of Trump s campaign.
But it was effective, and it did its job.
It made its intended audience laugh and show their teeth.
It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter someone he outranked in privilege, power, and the capacity to fight back.
It kind of broke my heart.
When the powerful use their position to bully others, we all lose.
Most Americans across the country and most of those in attendance cheered.
Mel Gibson and Vince Vaughn, however, did not.Gibson and Vaughn were caught on camera having a silent meltdown as Streep spoke.Here s the video via YouTube:The footage of their reaction only lasts a few seconds but it perfectly represents the reaction most Trump supporters had last night while watching Streep s speech.And Twitter users couldn t resist commenting about it.When you re the only two conservatives in a room where Trump is getting his ass dragged pic.twitter.com/Bt5okJX71l Jesse Berney (@jesseberney) January 9, 2017when you look up and want to drop a racial slur but realize meryl streep is a white woman pic.twitter.com/ShOHwPydw2 Kenny (@PhillyCustoms) January 9, 2017The Conservative table was not feeling Meryl s speech.
#GoldenGlobes pic.twitter.com/zdxDFhCZ1r Jillian?
?Sederholm (@JillianSed) January 9, 2017Give some credit to Gibson and Vaughn though.
At least they didn t throw a hissy fit about it like Donald Trump did.Seriously, Donald Trump LITERALLY lost his shit when he heard Streep s speech.Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn t know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never mocked a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017 groveling when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Gbson and Vaughan may have looked angry, but at least they had the class to remain silent.Featured image via screenshot