Reince Priebus appeared on Fox News Sunday and got his ass handed to him by Chris Wallace.On Friday, Donald Trump posted a tweet in which he referred to the media as an enemy of the American people just because they are reporting information provided to them by sources inside the government.Chaos and infighting have plagued Trump s administration and his inept handing of national security and his ties with Russia have caused some intelligence officials to withhold information from the White House out of fear that Russia will get it as well.Of course, Trump denies all of the reports, claiming that his administration is running smoothly and that while the leaks are real, the news about them is fake.
The FAKE NEWS media (failing @nytimes, @NBCNews, @ABC, @CBS, @CNN) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2017Basically, Trump accused the media of committing treason, a step closer to arresting journalists, something Wallace informed Priebus is what dictators do.
We don t have a state-run media in this country, Wallace said.
That s what they have in dictatorships.
Priebus whined that the media is using anonymous sources in their reporting, which is what journalists do to protect their sources from reprisals.
If the media were to name their sources you can bet that Trump would retaliate against that person or persons who are speaking to the press.
In other words, he would silence them to make sure the American people never find out what he is really doing.In his denial of the reports, Priebus hypocritically used an anonymous source to make his claim, which drew a rebuke from Wallace.Priebus then whined that the media isn t covering what Trump wants them to cover.
Wallace bluntly told him that he doesn t get to tell us what to do and the fact is that all of the networks covered the things Priebus mentioned.
Priebus and Trump are just mad because their effort to distract the media isn t working.
And as a nail in Priebus s coffin, Wallace humiliated him and Trump by pointing out that while President Obama often criticized Fox News, at least he didn t do what Trump is doing.
You don t get to tell us what to do any more than Barack Obama did.
Barack Obama whined about Fox News all the time, but I gotta say, he never said we were an enemy of the people.
Here s the video via YouTube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KyipRvdPyLE&feature=youtu.beDonald Trump is the true enemy of our country.
He opposes the free press and would rather the media be his propaganda machine.
That s something that Putin has in Russia.This is a slippery slope towards state censorship and jailing journalists for doing their jobs.
That can t be allowed to happen and that means this administration has to be put to an end before it s too late.Featured image via screenshot