It is becoming increasingly difficult to separate leftists from Islamic terrorists as both destroy monuments, statues, and seek to eliminate freedoms we enjoy.
On a day in which an Islamic terrorist killed over a dozen people in Barcelona, senior editor Wilber Cooper has the audacity to publish an article for VICE Magazine urging the left to destroy Mt.
Rushmore just like ISIS would.In his article Let s Blow Up Mount Rushmore, Cooper attacks the Founding Fathers and calls for a demolition of the monument.
His call to erase historical markers, such as statues, echoes the recent movement from left-wingers for a culture war that would decimate Americans political traditions and heroes.
Those targeted heroes include Thomas Jefferson, former president and chief author of the Bill of Rights such as the First Amendment and General and President George Washington, who declined offers to become a dictator after winning the Revolutionary War.Cooper argues that these historical monuments and statues help preserve a system of racial exploitation and inequality, and should be erased to help build a new society.
He says, It s going to be impossible to improve America if we can t be honest about its origins and its past.
He insists that Trump and his white supremacist cohorts believe the reverence some Americans have for these statues is simply respect for history, and that tearing them down is tantamount to ripping pages out of a textbook.
But monuments built by the state are not history they are manifestations of power.
Upon acknowledging the insensitivity of the article s title given the tragic events which occurred earlier today in Spain, VICE Magazine deleted the original article and wrote an editor s note: The headline and URL of this story have been updated.
We do not condone violence in any shape or form, and the use of blow up in the original headline as a rhetorical device was misguided and insensitive.
We apologize for the error.
They have since changed the title to Get Rid of Mount Rushmore.
Wow.
What an improvement.
Leftists continue to contradict their self-proclaimed peace-seeking objectives and prove that they are actually seeking to burn down the United States by getting rid of every trace of this great country s history.
And you can bet they are coming for the Constitution next.Read more: Breitbart