Republicans always talk a big game about being pro-life.
One of the ways they lead their clueless voters into thinking that they really care about abortions is by attacking healthcare organizations that provide the services.
That s exactly what happened in Wisconsin on Thursday when Governor Scott Walker signed two bills that will block millions of dollars in federal funding from reaching Planned Parenthood.According to Yahoo News:One of the new Wisconsin rules requires the state to apply for federal Title X family planning grant money and to give those monies to less controversial public entities such as state, county and local health departments and clinics, a statement from Walker s office said.Planned Parenthood is currently the only entity in Wisconsin receiving this federal money and the funds will not be sent to the organization, the statement said.
Less controversial ?
The only reason Planned Parenthood is controversial is because the GOP has made it so.
They attack the group because it is an easy target as the country s largest abortion provider.
But they actively ignore the fact that only roughly three percent of the organization s services are abortion related and that federal funding does NOT pay for that three percent it is illegal and has been since 1976.The other bill that Walker signed into law will restrict the amount of money Planned Parenthood gets back for birth control (and other prescriptions) reimbursements.The bill singles out Planned Parenthood by referring to a covered entity that is an abortion provider.
Of the 22 Planned Parenthood clinics in the state, only three perform abortions.
Planned Parenthood affiliates in Wisconsin serve more than 60,000 patients annually.This is really important because in order to truly be pro-life one must actively reduce the need for pregnancy terminations.
One of the easiest ways of doing that is by providing women and girls with free birth control.
Now, twenty-two clinics are going to have a very hard time doing this because of Walker.
If these women do not have access to birth control, then this could result in a boom of pregnancies Walker should have taken a look at Texas.Together the two laws could block more than $7 million of federal funding from reaching the clinics.
All of this proves that GOP cares less about preventing abortions and much more about punishing women and Planned Parenthood.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore/Flickr