The trend of tragic gun violence in America s schools continues, this time with a child from Dallas, Texas who brought a gun to school and shot himself.
The kid was 15 years old, and he was at the school outside of school hours for a conference.
According to Dallas Independent School District s police chief, Craig Miller, the reason the gun was not detected on the school s metal detector was because it wasn t being checked the way it usually is during normal operating times: The metal detectors are monitored differently after school starts.
With this incident, perhaps they should rethink that policy.
The lucky thing is that the kid s injuries are not life-threatening, and the shooting was accidental.
The .22 caliber pistol was apparently on his person in his first period class, and it went off, shooting him in the arm and leg, causing serious, but not life threatening injuries.
The school tweeted out the following statement regarding the shooting:The student was injured when he inadvertently shot himself with a single-shot revolver after the first class period had ended.The student arrived at school today with this for (an) unplanned conference with school administrators.
Because of the circumstance, the procedures for the metal detectors was not applied.The school was then placed on lockdown, and everyone on the scene was ordered to shelter in place.
According to local officials, that term means the following: Shelter-in-place means to take immediate shelter where you are at home, work, school, or in between.
The lockdown was taken out of effect that afternoon, but many questions remain as to why and how a gun got onto that campus and into that school.
When asked for answers by understandably concerned parents, Craig Miller said: I really don t know right now.
It s part of the ongoing investigation.
Everyone involved was lucky this time.
Next time, that may not be the case.
Who the hell knows what kind of plans that kid had when he chose to carry that pistol into his school?
Considering the history of that, this quite disturbing.
It seems that Chief Miller and other local authorities need to update their policies.
Further, this is just another incident that shows how much we need stricter gun laws.Watch a news report on the incident below:Featured image via Wikipedia