Stochastic terrorism is a term that means to use mass communications like Facebook to incite a seemingly random person to do violence against someone or something.
For instance, leading up to Robert Dear s bloody assault on a Planned Parenthood facility, the Right spurred on by David Daleiden s fraudulent and heavily-edited baby parts videos conservatives regularly informed their mindless followers that the women s health organization kills babies and sells them in pieces for profit.
All across the Right, including from presidential candidates, a single message resounded across the Stupid Part of America: someone somewhere needs to do something about this.
Someone needs to be a hero.And someone stepped up.
Robert Dear killed multiple people in his quest to unilaterally stop Planned Parenthood s evil acts.
The system, for our frenemies on the Right, worked.In what can only be viewed as an attempt to incite violence against Clinton, Nugent posted a video to Facebook that depicts 2016 hopeful Bernie Sanders shooting Clinton during a debate.
The photo was captioned, I got your guncontrol right here bitch!
The graphic video shows blood spouting from Clinton s chest after Sanders shoots her a very pleasing sight for Nugent s immensely stupid and bloodthirsty followers.
It is obvious through a perfunctory glance that these people would love to see Clinton dead.
Sanders too, though many made it clear that he would earn their vote by actually shooting Clinton, even if he is a dirty Communist bastard (they don t know what Communist means).
Obviously, no one has taken a shot at Clinton yet, but the more right-wing figures encourage such a thing, the higher the chance that someone, somewhere is going to take them up on their suggestion.After all, as Robert Lewis Dear demonstrated, it only takes one crazy person listening to the violent rhetoric who decides that he wants to make a difference.Ted Nugent once adopted a 17-year-old girl so he could have sex with her without difficulty, intentionally sh*t his pants to get out of going to war, and has made numerous racist remarks about Barack Obama and other notable African-American figures.
This has no relevance to the situation at hand, but we thought it important to note whose opinion these people consider important.Watch the disgusting video below:Featured image via Getty Images/David Livingston (modified)