He was such a nice boy, from such a nice family .This is a little disturbing.
Remember Amed Mohamed and the exploited islamic opportunism with 14-year-old clock boy bomb hoax from Irving Texas and how his father was running for political office in Sudan?Well, apparently 29-year-old terrorist Omar Mateen comes from a similarly engaged political family and his father, Seddique Mateen, was/is running for national office in Afghanistan and not happy with the government of Pakistan.IJR Mateen has his own television show, which broadcasts out of California.It is called the Durand Jirga Show and features Mateen discussing Middle Eastern politics.
The show is posted on YouTube.According to the Washington post, the show demonstrates the Orlando shooters father s sympathetic views toward the Taliban:In one video, Mateen expresses gratitude toward the Afghan Taliban, while denouncing the Pakistani government.
Our brothers in Waziristan, our warrior brothers in [the] Taliban movement and national Afghan Taliban are rising up, he said.
Inshallah the Durand Line issue will be solved soon.
This April, Mateen was in Washington DC doing advocacy work with Congress and the State Department Seddique Mateen is an effusive poster on social media.
The following posts from his Facebook describe a trip to Washington DC in April.
He can be seen posing in front of State Department offices & the Democratic Foreign Services Committee offices.Mr.
Mateen is photographed with numerous Washington DC Politicians and roaming the halls of Congress:The father of this radical terrorist sure was able to roam freely around the Capitol.
Here he is pretending to be Barack Hussein Obama in a mock Presidential Briefing Room:In addition, Got News.Com has discovered the sister of Omar Mateen, Miriam Seddique, purchased Omar s house for $10 in April via a quit claim deed .
link It would appear the jihadist Omar Mateen was making preparations for this attack for quite some time.Donald Trump was correct again when he called for additional scrutiny in December of 2015.
The families of these terrorists need to be a concentrated focus for attention.Mr.
Seddique Mateen even incorporated his entities as The Provisional Government of Afghanistan Corporation in official records in Florida:Via: Conservative Treehouse