Donald Trump s introduction of Gov.
Mike Pence as his running mate continued the Republican presidential campaign s streak of completely screwing up and mangling the basic elements of running for president.
Here are five ways Trump bungled the introduction of his running mate.1.
He Relived Winning The Nomination, AgainTrump s introductory comments barely even mentioned Pence.
Instead the candidate did what comes most naturally to him: Talking about himself.
Trump went on and on discussing his path to the nomination, again reliving the only political victory he s had so far, triumphing over the weak 2016 Republican presidential field.2.
He Gave A Lecture About TurkeyTrump then blamed the attempted military coup in Turkey on President Obama and his presidential rival, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
He claimed, We re seeing unrest in Turkey, a further demonstration of the failures of Obama-Clinton.
3.
He Tried To Stop Rumors He Didn t Want PenceThen Trump decided, for some reason, to use the event to push back on reports from outlets that indicated that Trump was considering changing his mind on Pence.
Trump said, Indiana Governor Mike Pence was my first choice.
In fact, the New York Times has reported that Trump settled on Pence.In conversations late into the evening, Mr. Trump repeatedly hesitated over selecting Mr. Pence, according to people briefed on the tense deliberations, who insisted on anonymity to describe the confidential talks.
Even as his emissaries reassured Mr. Pence, Mr. Trump fielded a last-ditch appeal from Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, another finalist, who once again pressed his own case.Advisers and family members stressed over and over to Mr. Trump that he was selecting a running mate to unite the Republican Party, not a new best friend.4.
He Kept Talking About HimselfIn a moment that was quickly mocked on social media, Trump proclaimed Back to Mike Pence, then kept on talking about himself and the campaign.Is Pence even there?
pic.twitter.com/bMBqyi1y4V Joe Strupp (@JoeStrupp) July 16, 2016Trump has been speaking for 23 minutes.
Where's @mike_pence ?
#freemikepence Dana Bash (@DanaBashCNN) July 16, 20165.
He Abandoned Pence On StageHistorically, when candidates have introduced their running mates, they remain on stage with them during their remarks in a sign of unity and coming together.
But Trump continued his campaign s themes of being in it for himself.
As he finally got to introducing Pence, Trump abruptly left the stage, leaving his running mate to wing it solo as Trump walked off.It was an unusual moment in a campaign that has become a string of unusual incidents connected to each other via Donald Trump.Featured image via YouTube