The Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) is full of hard-right Christians who hate the usual groups of people that we ve all heard of that group hating most notably, those who do not believe in the Christian god.
So, to that end, the last thing they want at that particular event is a group of atheists.
However, that is just who showed up to the 2016 edition of CPAC.David Silverman is with what is arguably the largest and most vocal secular group in America American Atheists.
He also ran a booth at CPAC.
As you can imagine, this was not a well-received endeavor.
However, being one of the most outspoken atheists in America has its advantages, and Full Frontal host Samantha Bee broadcast Silverman s trolling of righteous Christians at CPAC on her show, Full Frontal.
What happened can only be described as brilliant comedy gold.Silverman s booth and display included signs with messages such as keep your theocracy out of my democracy.
Silverman also broadcast his contempt for religion, saying: Religion is a lie.
A scam.
A con.
It has no redeeming values and it has no place in today s society.
There were also undeniable statistical facts in the clip that gave the message that refuted the idea that there are no atheists, especially since the number of non religious Americans is at 56,000,000 and growing.
It warned believers: Stop saying, Hey, atheists!
Go away!
The thing is, we atheists aren t going anywhere; in fact the opposite is true.
We are the fastest growing religious group especially among young people, including conservatives.
This was evidenced by the fact that young conservatives began approaching Silverman s booth and listening to what he had to say.
Silverman even referenced GOP frontrunner Donald Trump as a reason young conservatives are turning away from religion, saying through another animation: The conservative coalition, with its disparate components, has always been a platypus, stitched together with other platypi to create a platy-franken-pus.
Now it s rotting at the seams collapsing into a festering pile of platy, frank and pus, feasted on by orange maggots.
This oozing and tropic goo might present a nourishing culture medium for the atheists at CPAC, but many were unhappy to see them.
The thing is, Silverman is right.
Religion in general is quickly dying, especially the extreme conservative variety.
The fact that a huge secular presence was at them most conservative event held each year is most ominous indeed for that movement, and great for ours.
Good for Samantha Bee for broadcasting this phenomenon, and for David Silverman for bringing it to light.Watch the video below in all its secular glory:Featured image via video screen capture