Farmers and ranchers are being run off their own property by armed terrorists In Texas, nearly 8,200 farms and ranches back up to the Mexican border.The men and women who live and work on those properties say they re under attack from the same drug cartels blamed for thousands of murders in Mexico.
It s a war, make no mistake about it, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples said.
And it s happening on American soil.
Texas farmers and ranchers produce more cotton and more cattle than any other state, so Staples is concerned this war could eventually impact our food supply, and calls it a threat to our national security.
Farmers and ranchers are being run off their own property by armed terrorists showing up and telling them they have to leave their land, Staples said.Memo to the resistance: Farm owners are being ran off their own property by armed mexican gangs/terrorists !
#BuildThatWall #AmericaFirst pic.twitter.com/AujXU0u1z4 Oak-Town Unfiltered (@hrtablaze) March 11, 2017To raise awareness, Commissioner Staples launched the website ProtectYourTexasBorder.com.
It s a place where frustrated and scared farmers can share their stories.
FOX News Many Texas ranchers have had the benefit of the badass volunteer group Texas Border Volunteers a group of men and women who help keep our borders secure as they aid our US Border Agents to track down and apprehend aliens who illegally cross our borders.
For more than 30 years, Dr. Vickers and his wife Linda have owned the 12 Oak Ranch.
He said people crossing into the country illegally create crawl holes underneath his electrified fence and use paths on his property to walk toward their destination.
Read more: krgvHe said the traffic has been heavy at times.
Sometimes, he s seen hundreds a day.
We re very vigilant and we realize that a lot of the people coming through are gang members, criminals, and with that we ve got dogs to alert us here on the ranch.
My wife in particular depends on the dogs, especially when I m not here, he said.Vickers said he s seen a number of those who didn t make it all the way.
We ve had dead bodies show up from time to time, it s pretty disturbing.
But it s something we ve learned to live with, he said.Vickers regularly patrols his own ranch for illegal activity.
When he sees it, he reports it to Border Patrol.
The thought of possibly not have to do that anymore makes him feel at ease.FOX News One Texas farmer, who asked not to be identified, said it s common for him to see undocumented immigrants walking through his property.
I see something, I just drive away, he said.
It is a problem, I ve learned to live with it and pretty much, I ve become numb to it.
Another farmer, Joe Aguilar, said enough is enough.
After walking up on armed gunmen sneaking undocumented immigrants into the United States through his land, Aguilar decided to sell his farm.
It s really sad to say, you either have to beat em or join em and I decided not to do either, Aguilar said.Aguilar s family farmed 6,000 acres of land along the Texas-Mexico border for nearly 100 years.
Our farmers and ranchers can t afford their own security detail, Staples said.
We re going to become more dependent on food from foreign sources.