A few days ago, Donald Trump had done something that many leaders wouldn t even dare to do he insulted the United Nations.
And true to form, even after facing tremendous backlash, Trump hasn t learned his lesson and is still going at it.Trump s attacks on the United Nations began the day after Christmas, when he tweeted: The United Nations has such great potential but right now it is just a club for people to get together, talk and have a good time.
So sad!
The United Nations promptly responded from the organization s Twitter account, and its response couldn t have been more perfect.
In a tweet, the organization provided Trump with a list of 10 ways the UN makes a difference in the lives of millions every day :Here s a list of 10 ways the UN makes a difference in the lives of millions every day.See what else we do: https://t.co/MGT7G5uPFL pic.twitter.com/nMxHV0rvkf United Nations (@UN) December 26, 2016Yet despite having proof of all the good the United Nations does, Trump put his laziness and ignorance on full display yesterday when he spoke to the press outside Mar-a-Lago.
First bragging about the thousands of jobs he was bringing back to the United States, Trump quickly pivoted to insult the United Nations.
He said, The U.N. has such tremendous potential.
Not living up to its potential.
And completely ignoring the fact that the United Nations had actually provided him with evidence that it has solved numerous problems, Trump said: When do you see the United Nations solving problems?
They don t. They cause problems.
So, if it lives up to the potential, it s a great thing, and if it doesn t, it s a waste of time and money.
You can watch Trump run his ignorant mouth below:This interview happened just hours after Trump spent his morning attacking the United Nations (again).TwitterTwitter This just serves as more proof that even when you put the truth and facts right in front of Trump, he is going to ignore it and push his own lies and self-interests.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images