While campaigning in Reno on Saturday, the Secret Service suddenly rushed Trump off the stage with no one to give an explanation.
The audience started trying to leave, and it was a very good show.
Minutes later, Trump reappeared onstage to continue his speech.It seems there was a protester in the front of the crowd holding a Republicans against Trump sign, and the trouble started after someone shouted, gun!
Nobody found any guns at the scene, though, and the man, Austyn Crites, was allegedly put in a chokehold and grabbed by his testicles.Both Trump s social media director and his son found a tweet from a rabidly lying Trump fan saying that Trump had just survived an assassination attempt.
This tweet has yet to be taken down from Trump Jr. s Twitter feed:Look, we get it.
Cardboard signs with writing on them are terrifying for Trump fans.
They still don t qualify as weapons, tthough, and oddly enough, there was no weapon and likely no aggression on the part of Crites.
There are some on Twitter claiming that Crites first tried to grab a gun off of a Secret Service agent, the Secret Service merely searched him, questioned him, and released him.Doesn t sound like he tried to grab a gun there.
In fact, the Secret Service has so far said nothing about that happening.
Don t confuse the Trumpkins with facts and truth, though.
It hurts their three brain cells.Later on, at a rally in Colorado, the man who introduced Trump to the crowd said that there was an attempt of murder at the Reno rally.
Again, there wasn t an assassination attempt, but of course they ll say anything to garner sympathy for their candidate and make him out to be both a hero and a victim at the same time.Despite the lack of evidence that Crites was a would-be assassin, Trumpkins have taken to Twitter to push that whopper and make utter fools of themselves: For his part, Trump issued a blah statement, and, at the time of this posting, hadn t said anything on Twitter about it.
His fans, though are just eating this up.
They re so thick in the head that they ll believe anything and everything that makes their lord and savior into a victim of a nefarious plot.
That includes spreading lies about assassination attempts.Here s a video of the Secret Service rushing him offstage:OBAMA CALLED #TRUMP UN-AMERICAN & UNHUMAN YESTERDAY!
TODAY, THERE WAS AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON DONALD TRUMP!
pic.twitter.com/z6KKGT5Hk6 Trump Super PAC (@TrumpSuperPAC) November 6, 2016Featured image via screen capture from embedded video