There are people within the Obama administration and within the Mexican government who are fans of the movement to make America and Mexico a fluid nation.
After you read the information below, we hope you ll ask your congressman why the heck we re even giving money to LaRaza!
THE WHITE HOUSE TRIPLED FUNDING TO LARAZA!
Cecilia Munoz is Obama s director of Domestic Policy Council.
She is married to a human rights attorney, who is a former counselor to George Soros Open Society Institute, which spends billions to make open borders a reality.
She is a former chair of the Center for Community Change, another Soros-funded activist group.
The short story is that Munoz moved to the White House from her position as a vice president at La Raza.
Once she made the move, taxpayer funding of La Raza soared doubled almost tripled.It s a movement that s real and organized:A number of observers have commented on the proliferation of Mexican flags at rallies in favor of amnesty and open borders, as well as at anti-Trump demonstrations.They ve also noticed the Make America Mexico Again slogan showing up on signs, hats, and hashtags supposedly as a humorous meme, but almost certainly one that exhibits more than a grain of serious intent behind it, even though such an intent would be ironic in the extreme.
OBAMA GIVES $30 MILLION TO LA RAZA AFFILIATE Radical Hispanic organization known as The Race Victor Davis Hanson, a Hoover Institution fellow, as well as a writer, historian, and keen observer of current events, put it best when he noted that, Disrupters at a Trump rally in California likewise jumped the shark when some waved the flag of Mexico or bore placards with slogans such as Make America Mexico Again.
If the protest was directed against Trump s pledges to deport undocumented immigrants to Mexico, then it made little sense to celebrate the country to which protesters did not wish immigrants to return, or to suggest that immigrants new home should become identical to the old home that they had chosen to leave.
But, of course, he s being logical, and logic often has little to do with such matters.Even so, it is sobering to realize that there are organized efforts on the part of overt open borders advocates to recruit as many aliens as possible to naturalize in these last months leading up to the election, with the sole purpose of attempting to steer the election away from presumptive Republican nominee Trump and into the Democratic camp.More disturbing is that the federal government may be lending itself to this effort.
It would not be the first time that a Democratic administration has used the organs of government to try to skew voter rolls by adding to them in egregious numbers before an election, and in the process steamrolling proper vetting procedures to be sure it gets done.Most disturbing of all is that the Mexican government itself has now leaped onto this same stage in a shameless attempt at interfering in an American domestic political matter of the first consequence: the election of our next leader (see here and here).
If the United States were to attempt to do this in a Mexican election, we would be condemned globally in all quarters, and shouts of !Fuera Yanquis!
(Yankees Out!)
would resound from the voices of thousands of demonstrators on the streets of Mexico City.Read more: CIS