In what can only be described as a proof of life video, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich is seen backtracking wildly away from a previous remark where he stated drain the swamp was no more than a catchphrase used by Trump and he didn t really mean it.
Drain the swamp was how Trump said he would get rid of politics as usual in Washington DC.As you can see here, Trump seems very mad:Someone incorrectly stated that the phrase "DRAIN THE SWAMP" was no longer being used by me.
Actually, we will always be trying to DTS.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 22, 2016It was at almost the exact same moment when Gingrich released this video where he said: I want to report that I made a big boo boo.
I talked this morning with President-elect Donald Trump and he reminded me, he likes drain the swamp I miscategorized it the other day.
He intends to drain the swamp.
He even describes it as DTS .
So I want all of you to know that I goofed, draining the swamp is in.
Alligators should be worried.
And you ll hear me write more about alligators and the swamp.
But I thought I owed it to all the folks who follow me, when I make a mistake, I m going to be straight forward and tell you.
I blew that one.
Draining the swamp is in.
President-elect Trump wants to do it, and you re gonna get to be part of it.
Watch the video here:I goofed.
Draining the swamp is in, @realDonaldTrump is going to do it, and the alligators should be worried.
#DTS https://t.co/nCHs61gpve pic.twitter.com/OCO7eaSKvk Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) December 22, 2016He looks terrified and it makes one wonder what the hell does Donald Trump have on Newt Gingrich that would make him put together this really bizarre video?There s no one more establishment in DC than Newt Gingrich, and the fact that he s sucking up to Donald Trump who claims he wants to drain the swamp is really, really weird.
We ve seen Trump s picks so far and they ve been big business as usual, and Gingrich clearly wants to be part of that.However, this video makes it pretty clear that Trump has Gingrich under his thumb, and the former Speaker looks mortified.Featured image via video screen capture