Georgia lawmakers recent decision to protect the First amendment by legalizing anti-lgbt discrimination has cost numerous citizens their jobs as a telecom company responded to the news by getting the f*ck out of Dodge.The New Civil Rights Movement reports that 373K, Inc. announced it s time to relocate after the passage of the First Amendment Defense Act, HB 757.
We are very saddened by the Georgia Senate which passed #HB757 also known as #FADA, the company announced via Twitter.The sweeping legislation would protect anyone who chooses to discriminate against the LGBT community, interracial couples, single mothers, divorced individuals, people having sex outside of marriage, and more.
One Georgia lawmaker even proudly admitted the legislation would protect the Ku Klux Klan s agenda.
In a letter prior to the bill s passage, Americans United for Separation of Church and state Legislative Director Maggie Garrett urged lawmakers to oppose the horrific legislation, pointing out that it would allow individuals, businesses, or even taxpayer-funded organizations to refuse services and benefits based on arbitrary objections to that person s lifestyle choices, sexual orientation, socioeconimic status, and a number of other factors: I m gay, our CFO is gay, we have people from every walk of life working here, 373K Co-founder Kelvin Williams told The New Civil Rights Movement Saturday.
I ve got Muslims, Buddhists, atheists here, he added.
We ve got great Christians working for us.
They ve never thought of not serving anyone that s not the message of Christ.
We don t tolerate that crap, Williams said, explaining that the anti-LGBT bill is not conducive for Georgia, where the business environment in the state is not that great anyway.
It s sad our state government wants to take us back in time, Williams said.
I wish Georgia would wake up.
He laid out the true meaning ebhind the bill, which lawmakers falsely claim will not permit discrimination: If you re not a white married Christian heterosexual, prepare to be persecuted.
Williams says that his company will not do business with fake Christians who support the legislation.Unfortunately, the state of Georgia is about to learn a hard lesson about discrimination.
Last year, businesses pulled out of Indiana after the state passed religious freedom legislation that also allegedly did not allow discrimination.
After a pizza shot proved lawmakers false claims wrong by acting to discriminate against gay and lesbian couples before the ink was dry on the Governor s signature, the law was swiftly changed.Good luck, Georgia.
You ll need it.Featured image via screengrab