After all the backlash Trump received for saying that Obama was literally the founder of ISIS, he tried backpedaling, and then tried to backpedal off his backpedal (wait, what?
Make a decision, fool).
He first tried to lie his way out of it on Twitter, saying:Ratings challenged @CNN reports so seriously that I call President Obama (and Clinton) the founder of ISIS, & MVP.
THEY DON T GET SARCASM?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 12, 2016Because it s always the press that s out to get him, and not the press reporting on what he says.
But that s beside the point.
After that tweet, he held a rally in Erie, Penn., and he went back on that tweet: So I said the founder of ISIS, Trump recalled to the crowd, after accusing the president of being so weak and so bad that he allowed the Islamic State to grow.
Obviously I m being sarcastic.
Then but not that sarcastic, to be honest with you.'
Well, which is it, Your Royalness?
Either you were being sarcastic or you meant what you said.
Trump, however, really doesn t know what he s doing, and he will never admit that he was wrong to say something.
When Hugh Hewitt asked him, point blank, whether he was talking about the vacuum created in Iraq by pulling our troops out, that exchange went like this:Trump: No, I meant he s the founder of ISIS.
I do.
He was the most valuable player.
I gave him the most valuable player award.
I gave her too, by the way, Hillary Clinton.Hugh Hewitt: But he s not sympathetic to them.
He hates them.
He s trying to kill them.Trump: I don t care, he was the founder.
His, the way he got out of Iraq was that that was the founding of ISIS, okay.The only reason he s saying that was sarcasm now is because he was called on the carpet for it, and he has to cover his growing mountain of lies somehow.
But it seems his loyal subjects might not have liked that as much, because he decided swerving back and forth on this was better than picking an opinion and sticking to it.Trump knows his campaign is in trouble.
He s asked for help in Utah and Ohio, and also called for a meeting with the RNC to repair that relationship after more than fifty Republicans signed a letter to ask the RNC to pull his funding.
Trump isn t going to change, though.
He thinks he s invincible now that he s locked up the nomination, and has become so incapable of consistency that he can t even pick one lie and stick to it.Featured image by Regine Mahaux/Getty Images