Not-My-President-Elect Donald Trump s claim that millions of voters had cast illegal ballots on election day has become a contentious issue because there is zero evidence to back up such an assertion.
Trump s Twitter timeline is the epitome of fake news.
In ncourt filings submitted by Trump s own attorneys in Pennsylvania and Michigan objecting to recount efforts by Green Party candidate Jill Stein, it states that there is no evidence that any voter fraud had occurred, according to the Washington Post.The filing in Michigan states: On what basis does Stein seek to disenfranchise Michigan citizens?
None really, save for speculation, the filing reads.
All available evidence suggests that the 2016 general election was not tainted by fraud or mistake.
The lawyers state, Stein aims to sow doubts regarding the legitimacy of the presidential election.
That s pretty ironic considering that that is precisely what Trump tried to do for years during President Obama s two terms.In the Pennsylvania filing, the lawyers state, On what basis does Stein seek to disenfranchise the voters of the Keystone state?
None really.
There is no evidence or even any allegation that any tampering with Pennsylvania s voting systems actually occurred.
Trump s Republican colleagues have tried to reinforce the notion of mass voter fraud.
Reince Priebus said that it was possible.
House Speaker Paul Ryan said he didn t know if millions of illegal votes were cast, because said that he is not really focused on these things.
Not-My-Vice-President-Elect Mike Pence said that he didn t know that the claim was false.
Senior Adviser Kellyanne Conway has twisted herself into a pretzel trying to justify Trump s baseless claim.
Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) got into a heated exchange with CNN anchor Chris Cuomo on Monday over the number of illegal votes cast in the presidential election.
All of this happened because Donald Trump can t maintain his Twitter account like an adult.Featured image via Tom Pennington/Getty ImagesImages of court filings via Washington Post