Would you die to save the President?
What if it was President Trump?
A longtime secret service agent recently risked time in prison to promise the world that if she is all that stands between Trump and a bullet, the bullet wins.Kerry O Grady, the special agent in charge of the Secret Service s Denver district, didn t mention Trump directly in her Facebook post, but she didn t have to.
Her words make it clear whom she means: As a public servant for nearly 23 years, I struggle to not violate the Hatch Act.
So I keep quiet and skirt the median.
To do otherwise can be a criminal offense for those in my position.
Despite the fact that I am expected to take a bullet for both sides.
But this world has changed and I have changed.
And I would take jail time over a bullet or an endorsement for what I believe to be disaster to this country and the strong and amazing women and minorities who reside here.
Hatch Act be damned.
I am with Her.
The Hatch Act prohibits executive branch members aside from the President, Vice President, and other selected people, from making partisan statements.
The Hatch Act is designed both to protect employees from being forced to support a particular candidate, but it also acts to limit the political activities of executive branch employees.After several days, O Grady removed the post.
It was an internal struggle for me but as soon as I put it up, I thought it was not the sentiment that I needed to share because I care very deeply about the mission, she said.
However, she has not stopped posting her thoughts on social media.
She also changed her cover photo to images of the Women s March in Denver, writing all of these women represent me!
Proud to say it!
#nasty and uploaded a photo of Princess Leia, captioned A woman s place is in the resistance.
My government is the most important thing to me, she says.
I serve at the pleasure of the president, but I still have the First Amendment right to say things.
The Secret Service refuses to discuss the situation, but that the posts will be seriously and swiftly investigated.
While some may criticize her for her posts, she probably made the right decision.
After all, he is already threatening to march on American cities, isn t he?featured image via screengrab