Dan Rather, an often unbiased and objective presence in what was once credible media, has officially bucked his long-held objectivity and completely and utterly destroyed Donald Trump after his now infamous Second Amendment comment.Taking to Facebook, Rather, who has gone on the record questioning Trump s antics on the campaign trial, blasted the GOP nominee for directing threats at Hillary Clinton, saying his comments now no longer about policy, civility, decency or even temperament, but something more nefarious:No trying-to-be objective and fair journalist, no citizen who cares about the country and its future can ignore what Donald Trump said today.
When he suggested that The Second Amendment People can stop Hillary Clinton he crossed a line with dangerous potential.
By any objective analysis, this is a new low and unprecedented in the history of American presidential politics.
This is no longer about policy, civility, decency or even temperament.
This is a direct threat of viol ence against a political rival.
It is not just against the norms of American politics, it raises a serious question of whether it is against the law.
If any other citizen had said this about a Presidential candidate, would the Secret Service be investigating?Candidate Trump will undoubtedly issue an explanation; some of his surrogates are already engaged in trying to gloss it over, but once the words are out there they cannot be taken back.
That is what inciting violence means.Rather is absolutely right.
Had anyone else but Donald Trump said this, they would have been arrested and thoroughly interrogated, no questions asked.And Trump is already making up excuses.
It was a joke.
He meant more bodyguards and armed citizens.
He meant protecting the Second Amendment in the Court.
Yadda yadda yadda.
More excuses from the candidate that tells it like it is.
For the people who like Trump because he speaks his mind, they certainly have to make excuses for what he says all the time.It s time the other media heads follow Rather and break this objectivity that stops them from criticizing Trump when he says something stupid.
For too long the media has allowed him to get away with his insane rhetoric.Featured image Kirk Irwin/Getty Images