Donald Trump on Wednesday slammed what he described as thugs and criminals who clashed with police outside an Albuquerque campaign event, just hours after police in riot gear and mounted patrol units faced off against the violent crowd.The protesters in New Mexico were thugs who were flying the Mexican flag.
The rally inside was big and beautiful, but outside, criminals!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 25, 2016Watch here:The clashes erupted overnight, after Trump and some 4,000 of his supporters left the Albuquerque Convention Center.
Approximately 100 demonstrators remained in downtown.Smoke grenades were used in an effort to disperse the crowd, while protesters threw rocks, plastic bottles, burning T-shirts and other items at officers.
Albuquerque police said on Twitter late Tuesday that several officers were being treated for injuries as a result of being hit by rocks.
At least one person was arrested.Inside the Trump rally, demonstrators shouted, held up banners and resisted removal by security officers.
The banners included the messages Trump is Fascist and We ve heard enough.
Trump s supporters responded with chants of Build that wall!
At one point, a female protester was physically dragged from the stands by security.
Other protesters scuffled with security as they resisted removal from the convention center.
The altercations left a glass door at the entrance of the convention center smashed.
During the rally, protesters outside overran barricades and clashed with police in riot gear.
They also burned T-shirts and other items labeled with Trump s catchphrase, Make America Great Again.
Trump supporters at the rally said they appreciated his stance on boosting border security and stemming the flow of people crossing the border illegally, but some said they were frightened by the violent protests outside.
Albuquerque attorney Doug Antoon said rocks were flying through the convention center windows as he was leaving Tuesday night.
Glass was breaking and landing near his feet.
This was not a protest, this was a riot.
These are hate groups, he said of the demonstrators.
Via: FOX NewsWho are these domestic terrorist hell bent on shutting down free speech, and who is organizing these violent riots?
What exactly is their end goal?An article published by Breitbart News in 2010 provides us with some pretty good clues:The radical Progressive wing of the Democrat party, through people like Lisa Fithian, has been in direct coordination with the very Anarchy protesters who trashed St. Paul, Minnesota, in 2008 during the Republican National Convention.
They would have done much more damage had they not been thwarted by a former radical-turned FBI informant.How do we know this?
Because they wrote about it.
Why don t you know about it?
Because the media in this country never bothered to look into whom the people were who organized the marches which repeatedly led to violence and arrests.If any of the mainstream press had been the slightest bit curious (and why would they be?
It was just politically organized rioting on the streets of our country), they could have performed some cursory Google searches that return ample circumstantial evidence of direct coordinating efforts between the clean, presentable, mainstream face of the Progressive-Democrat movement, and the dark underbelly of the Anarchy movement in this country.
*How does this relationship work?
It s simple(ish).
Let s start with the clean face of the Progressive-Democrats: the Congressional Progressive Caucus.
This entity was founded and organized by self-described Socialist U.S.
Senator Bernie Sanders, and by an organization called the Democratic Socialists of America (DSA).The DSA was founded and supported by many of the same people active in the 1960s radical movement, known widely as Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and their domestic terrorist wing, the Weather Underground Organization (WUO).Key members of the Democratic Socialists of America are principal organizers of two current groups called Progressives for Obama and the reconstituted Movement for a Democratic Society (MDS).Progressives for Obama is where the straight face of Progressive unions, non-profits, and educational institutions organized their efforts to elect then Senator Obama to the presidency.The reconstituted MDS is the tip of the nose of America s ugly radical Progressive face.
The MDS made it its mission to restart the SDS.
They succeeded, and one of the first tasks of the reconstituted SDS was to begin forging a relationship with Anarchists and to participate in what they call Direct Action protests.
They succeeded, and the synthesis of the Progressive Democrat movement with the Anarchists manifests itself in the self-described Socialist Anarchy movement called the Direct Action Tendency (DAT).
The DAT, along with Lisa Fithian s United For Justice and Peace, represents the very ugly face of the Progressive-Democrat movement, where they coordinate with street thugs, Che/Castro worshiping Socialists, and islamists.
**What is a Direct Action?
A direct action typically (but not exclusively) consists of staging a protest with the predetermined goal of causing a direct confrontation with the police.While covering the Democrat convention in Denver, and subsequently the Republican convention in Minneapolis/St.
Paul, it became clear that there was a distinct and organized pattern at work.Organizers would stage a rally and/or a concert.
These events were planned and permitted through the local municipalities.
The goal was almost always the same.
Eventually the organizers would breach the boundaries of the permit, and force a confrontation with the authorities.
This frequently resulted in extensive damage to property, as well as added expense in resources devoted to dealing with the Anarchists.What s the point?
It s three-fold.
1) These events present successful organizing opportunities to collect names and contact info of participants, thus growing the movement.
2) These events radicalize the members, making them more devoted to the cause.
3) Propaganda is produced that depicts the evil police being brutal to otherwise seemingly peaceful protesters.What s their goal?
To end Capitalism, with which they equate racism, sexism, exploitation, terrorism, and murder.These Direct Action Tendency and United For Justice linked events, (like the RNC Welcoming Committee) represent a modern day Progressive-Anarchy Tea Party.
One main difference of course between the Conservative/Libertarian Tea Parties, and the Progressive-Anarchy Tea Parties is the premeditated tactic of breaking the law and getting arrested.
Conservatives and Libertarians don t tend to do that.
Progressive-Anarchists have mastered it as a form of political art.This all begs the question, if a group of Conservative/Libertarian Tea Partiers engaged in an attack on an urban infrastructure with the premeditated goal of shutting down a Democrat political event, would they face charges for federal civil rights violations?
Perhaps that would depend on whether or not America is a land where people are guaranteed the right to political expression and peaceable assembly.