A day after the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium, Hillary Clinton gave a speech on counterterrorism at Stanford University in California.The speech was billed by the campaign as an opportunity to highlight how now is a time for steady leadership when we must stand in solidarity with our European allies and respond firmly to defeat ISIS.
Both Democrats and Republicans have pointed out that by contrast to Clinton former Senator, former Secretary of State Donald Trump s foreign policy ideas have been haphazard, contradictory, and overall would endanger the country.On ISIS and the Belgium attacks, Clinton directly rejected Trump s kneejerk response that America needs to build his beautiful wall because, Walls will not protect us from this threat.
We cannot contain ISIS we must defeat ISIS.
Clinton took direct aim at Trump s recent reckless claim that America should pull away from NATO and our allies, pointing out that while Vladimir Putin already hopes to divide Europe, it could be even worse because, if Mr. Trump gets his way, it ll be like Christmas in the Kremlin.
.
@HillaryClinton: "If Mr. Trump gets his way, it'll be like Christmas in the Kremlin" pic.twitter.com/u9D2QO5vx7 POLITICO (@politico) March 23, 2016She also went after Ted Cruz, noting, slogans aren t a strategy for global peace and security because loose cannons tend to misfire.
She also called for reigning in Cruz s reckless rhetoric about carpet bombing of targets, saying doing so would be a serious mistake, instead she said, What America needs is strong smart steady leadership.
Clinton also echoed President Obama s condemnation of Cruz s proposal to send patrols into Muslim neighborhoods, It s hard to imagine a more incendiary, foolish statement and said: It s wrong, it s counterproductive, it s dangerous.
In what is likely to be a consistent counterpoint to Trump s desire to make America great again, the former Secretary of State said, America is a great nation.
Instead of the aggressive, dangerous moves supported by Trump and the GOP, Clinton called for a plan that would rely on what actually works, not bluster that alienates our partners that would allow the United States to defeat ISIS.Featured image via Twitter