21st Century Wire says Former NSA executive and whistleblower William Binney confirmed that President Donald J. Trump is absolutely right to claim he was wiretapped and monitored.
Binney, a 36 year NSA veteran also considered a legend within the agency, created the agency s mass surveillance program for digital information and served as the senior technical director within the agency, who managed six thousand NSA employees.
After the events of September 11th, 2001, Binney resigned from the NSA and became a whistleblower when discovering that the data-monitoring program he had helped develop nicknamed ThinThread was being used to spy on Americans, as reported by PBS.More on this report from Zerohedge Tyler Durden ZerohedgeLegendary NSA whistleblower William Binney (and creator of NSA s global surveillance system) confirmed to Fox News, that President Trump is absolutely right to claim he was wiretapped and monitored he was.As we noted previously, Binney is the NSA executive who created the agency s mass surveillance program for digital information, who served as the senior technical director within the agency, who managed six thousand NSA employees, the 36-year NSA veteran widely regarded as a legend within the agency and the NSA s best-ever analyst and code-breaker, who mapped out the Soviet command-and-control structure before anyone else knew how, and so predicted Soviet invasions before they happened ( in the 1970s, he decrypted the Soviet Union s command system, which provided the US and its allies with real-time surveillance of all Soviet troop movements and Russian atomic weapons ).
Binney is the real McCoy.Binney resigned from NSA shortly after the U.S. approach to intelligence changed following the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
He became a whistleblower after discovering that elements of a data-monitoring program he had helped develop nicknamed ThinThread were being used to spy on Americans, PBS reported.On Monday he came to the defense of the president, whose allegations on social media over the weekend that outgoing President Barack Obama tapped his phones during the 2016 campaign have rankled Washington.
I think the president is absolutely right.
His phone calls, everything he did electronically, was being monitored, Bill Binney, a 36-year veteran of the National Security Agency who resigned in protest from the organization in 2001, told Fox Business on Monday.
Everyone s conversations are being monitored and stored , Binney said.Binney also told Sean Hannity s radio show earlier Monday, I think the FISA court s basically totally irrelevant.
The judges on the FISA court are not even concerned, nor are they involved in any way with the Executive Order 12333 collection, Binney said during the radio interview.
That s all done outside of the courts.
And outside of the Congress.
Binney also told Fox the laws that fall under the FISA court s jurisdiction are simply out there for show and trying to show that the government is following the law, and being looked at and overseen by the Senate and House intelligence committees and the courts.
That s not the main collection program for NSA, Binney said Continue this report at ZerohedgeREAD MORE TRUMP AT: 21st Century Wire TRUMP FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV