If you ve been wondering how long it would be before Cliven Bundy was finally arrested, you ll be happy to know that just happened.
No, you re not dreaming.
Yes, the tea you drank was just tea (as far as you know), and you are not hallucinating.
Cliven Bundy has been arrested.
While he was given a free pass after he organized an armed standoff with the federal government at his ranch because he didn t feel he should pay heavily-subsidized and discounted grazing fees, the FBI finally cracked down on the Welfare Cowboy we love to mock as he attempted to join the remnants of his sons army in Oregon.Earlier this week, Bundy announced his intention to go to Oregon, but when he attempted to act out his fantasy of rekindling the revolution with an ISIS supporter who joined the occupation of a federal bird sanctuary and his buddies, law enforcement moved in.
Oregon Live reports:Cliven Bundy, the Nevada rancher who touched off one showdown with federal authorities and applauded another started in Oregon by his sons, was arrested late Wednesday at Portland International Airport.Bundy, 74, was booked into the downtown Multnomah County jail at 10:54 p.m.The Bundy Ranch Facebook page reported Bundy was surrounded by SWAT officers and detained after his arrival.For those who still feel this is too good to be true, here is his booking information:Shortly after Bundy s arrest, the Bundy Ranch Facebook page posted the terrible, terrible, not very good news:The militants Bundy attempted to join did not have a good night either.
Surrounded by FBI, ISIS supporter David Fry yelled at an FBI negotiator: You re going to hell.
Kill me.
Get it over with.
We re innocent people camping at a public facility, and you re going to murder us.
The only way we re leaving here is dead or without charges, Fry said during the night s ravings.
Ultimately, however, the four remaining militants agreed to surrender in the morning after they have had some snacks.The terrorists will turn themselves in, flanked by Evangelical icon Franklin Graham and Nevada Assemblywoman Michele Fiore, who believes that cancer is a fungus that can be washed out with baking soda a fitting escort for people who think they can give people more freedumbs by taking over a bird sanctuary.While it may seem an unfortunate night for the Revolution, at least Cliven can have a family reunion with his sons, who are also in jail along with more than a dozen of their compatriots.Featured image via screengrab