When it comes to political campaign strategies, Donald Trump clearly believes he can hate and insult his way into the Oval Office.
So far, it s working in the Republican primary, because let s face it, the GOP has become a party of hateful rhetoric and building up fear of anyone other than those who look and act exactly as they do (predominantly white, heterosexual, Christian, etc.).
However, that strategy, most likely, will not work in the general election, because the rest of America sees Trump as the ridiculous mudslinger that he actually is.Pointing this out in a pretty hilarious way was none other than Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton.
She, or her campaign staff with her approval, took to Twitter to put Trump on blast about his hateful tone and rhetoric.
After all, Trump is already pivoting to the general and referring to Clinton as Crooked Hillary.
It s a technique he s been using in the primaries against his Republican opposition, so he figures he should try it out for the general as well.What did Hillary tweet out?
A Washington Post article highlighting pretty much every hateful and disparaging thing Trump has said throughout his campaign, with every paragraph beginning, Remember when Yet, she introduced the article on Twitter by hilariously mocking the way Trump tweets.
All too often you ll see Trump tweet something out, and it will be followed with a one word sentence Sad!
Well, Hillary did just that right back at him.Does Trump think he can fool us into forgetting his hateful rhetoric?
Sad!
https://t.co/0Vvw0m36ZX Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) April 23, 2016If Trump wants to pretend he s a politician and enter into the biggest political race in the entire world with no experience whatsoever, he s in for a boat-load of f*ck you from the Clinton campaign if they face off in the general election.
Trump may be able to get away with going after his Republican opponents, because let s face it, they re weak and inexperienced themselves, but the Clintons??
Haaaa!
Good luck with that.
If you dish it, Hillary will take it, puree it, and serve it back to you with a cherry on top.We re in for a bumpy and very amusing ride throughout the coming months.Featured Photos by Justin Sullivan/Scott Olson/Getty Images Twitter