Every time Donald Trump tries to walk back his punishment comments on abortion, he only manages to become even more offensive and misogynistic.In a recent New York Times interview with reporter Robert Draper, Trump made yet another pathetic attempt to clarify the disgusting comments he made during an interview with MSNBC s Chris Matthews in March, where he stated that women should get some form of punishment for seeking an abortion.
Trump originally tried to correct his comments shortly after by saying only doctors who perform illegal abortions should face criminal charges which was still a very anti-woman stance to take.
Now, Trump has made another attempt to defend his comments and it s just as bad.
Trump said: I didn t mean punishment for women like prison.
I m saying women punish themselves.
I didn t want people to think in terms of prison punishment.
And because of that I walked it back.
TwitterBut it turns out, every time Trump walks his comments back, it s only because he s receiving backlash and he wants to do damage control he s not really sorry at all.
Draper investigated Trump s claims that he hadn t meant that women should be punished, and discovered that the presumptive Republican nominee was lying through his teeth.
Draper reported that Trump initially saw nothing wrong with his remark and refused to walk it back before giving a statement.
It wasn t until numerous media outlets swarmed him that Trump tried to soften the blow with another statement that said the exact opposite.
Those two contradictory statements were released approximately an hour apart but that s nothing new for the dishonest, constantly contradicting and flip-flopping candidate.You can watch Trump s original punishment comments below and see for yourself that Trump s claim that it was a misinterpretation is complete bullsh*t. This is a guy who clearly hates women, and will be a major threat to their health, safety and future if he gets the White House.To prove just how crazy Trump is, in the same Times interview, Trump insisted he would do better on women s issues than Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton and everybody else combined.
He said, Frankly, for the general election I think that s a very good issue for me.
Trump still remains completely oblivious that almost three quarters of American women hate his guts.
And of course, shaming and telling them that they should punish themselves for having an abortion isn t going to help.Featured image via Eduardo Munoz Alvarez / Getty Images