It s hard to believe that it s been nearly 13 years since Natalie Maines of the Dixie Chicks perfectly spoke her mind in reference to the impending Iraq war.
If you don t remember what she said, let me remind you: Just so you know, we re on the good side with y all.
We do not want this war, this violence, and we re ashamed that the President of the United States is from Texas.
This, of course, sparked a huge backlash against not only Maines, but the Dixie Chicks.
People everywhere couldn t believe that she d have the perfect audacity to speak up against an unjust war and against the president who was leading the charge into Iraq.
Dissent is usually considered patriotic, but apparently not if the dissenting voice is against a warmongering conservative president.Well, dusting off her infamous quote on Twitter, Maines just completely roasted Republican presidential candidate Senator Ted Cruz.
Another Republican from Texas who loves war and wouldn t think twice about send our troops anywhere he thought there was a need, necessary or not.
Diplomacy be damned.Maines tweeted:Just so you know .I'm ashamed Ted Cruz is from America;) pic.twitter.com/QU39ERnAzN Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) January 24, 2016And mind you, the quotes are absolutely perfect that she chose.
The first being from former President Eisenhower, a man who knew the dangers of war, because he lived through the worst we ve ever had.
Then paired with Sen. Cruz, a Canadian born chickenhawk, and far from the Republican that Eisenhower was, who claims he ll carpet bomb the enemy to make them glow in the dark.
Maines reminds America of the stupidity of electing yet another senseless fool to the White House and the inevitable war it would cause.
A war that would send thousands more of our troops to unnecessarily die.
However, Maines does it with a perfectly sarcastic spin when she says: Just so you know .I m ashamed Ted Cruz is from America;) The wink is seemingly insinuating two things: that he s a repeat of George W. Bush, so the same quote was necessary, and also that he was born in Canada, which was confirmed with this tweet:I stand corrected Just so you know, I'm ashamed Ted Cruz claims to be American.
pic.twitter.com/JUltNImOXH Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) January 24, 2016Cruz is definitely a person to be ashamed of, because not only is he dangerous, he s smarmy as hell and as greasy as a used car salesman to get what he wants done.
Even if that means reading Green Eggs and Ham on the floor of the Senate to shut down the United States government.Good on you, Maines.. Well frickin done.
Never EVER stop speaking the truth.Featured image: YouTube/Twitter