WE COULDN T AGREE MORE!
Former FBI Assistant Director James Kallstrom on the Peter Strzok anti-Trump texts: He belongs in Leavenworth.
He belongs behind bars.
These things cannot happen in a democracy.
Former FBI Assistant Director James Kallstrom on the Peter Strzok anti-Trump texts: "He belongs in Leavenworth.
He belongs behind bars.
These things cannot happen in a democracy."
@FoxBusiness @LizMacDonaldFOX pic.twitter.com/tMkX7wBoA9 Risk & Reward (@RiskRewardFBN) December 14, 2017THERE ARE SEVERAL PLAYERS IN THIS ANTI-TRUMP SCAM BUT FBI AGENT STRZOK IS THE MAIN CULPRIT:FBI Supervisor Fired For Anti-Trump Texts Oversaw Michael Flynn Interviews:Wow!
Could this charade of an investigation into Trump-Russian collusion get any more embarrassing for special counsel Robert Mueller?A supervisory special agent who is now under scrutiny after being removed from Robert Mueller s Special Counsel s Office for alleged bias against President Trump also oversaw the bureau s interviews of embattled former National Security advisor Michael Flynn, this reporter has learned.
Flynn recently pled guilty to one-count of lying to the FBI last week.FBI agent Peter Strzok was one of two FBI agents who interviewed Flynn, which took place on Jan. 24, at the White House, said several sources.
The other FBI special agent, who interviewed Flynn, is described by sources as a field supervisor in the Russian Squad, at the FBI s Washington Field Office, according to a former intelligence official, with knowledge of the interview.Strzok was removed from his role in the Special Counsel s Office after it was discovered he had made disparaging comments about President Trump in text messages between him and his alleged lover FBI attorney Lisa Page, according to the New York Times and Washington Post, which first reported the stories.
Strzok is also under investigation by the Department of Justice Inspector General for his role in Hillary Clinton s email server and the ongoing investigation into Russia s election meddling.
On Saturday, the House Intelligence Committee s Chairman Devin Nunes chided the Justice Department and the FBI for not disclosing why Strzok had been removed from the Special Counsel three months ago, according to a statement given by the Chairman.The former U.S. intelligence official told this reporter, with the recent revelation that Strzok was removed from the Special Counsel investigation for making anti-Trump text messages it seems likely that the accuracy and veracity of the 302 of Flynn s interview as a whole should be reviewed and called into question.
The most logical thing to happen would be to call the other FBI Special Agent present during Flynn s interview before the Grand Jury to recount his version, the former intelligence official added.The former official also said that Strzok s allegiance to (Deputy Director Andrew) McCabe was unwavering and very well known.
Flynn, a retired three-star general, issued a statement on Dec. 1, saying, it has been extraordinarily painful to endure these many months of false accusations of treason and other outrageous acts.
Such false accusations are contrary to everything I have ever done and stood for.
But I recognize that the actions I acknowledged in court today were wrong, and, through my faith in God, I am working to set things right.
According to another source, with direct knowledge of the Jan. 24 interview, McCabe had contacted Flynn by phone directly at the White House.
White House officials had spent the earlier part of the week with the FBI overseeing training and security measures associated with their new roles so it was no surprise to Flynn that McCabe had called, the source said.McCabe told Flynn some agents were heading over (to the White House) but Flynn thought it was part of the routine work the FBI had been doing and said they would be cleared at the gate, the source said.
It wasn t until after they were already in (Flynn s) office that he realized he was being formerly interviewed.
He didn t have an attorney with him, they added.Flynn s attorney Robert Kelner did not respond for comment.A former FBI agent said the investigation into Strzok and the reported text messages between him and Page, shows a bias that cannot be ignored particularly if he had anything to do with Flynn s interview and his role in it.
The former U.S. intelligence official questioned, how logical is it that Flynn is being charged for lying to an agent whose character and neutrality was called into question by the Special Counsel.
According to an anonymous source in The Washington Post, Strzok s and Page had exchanged a number of texts that expressed anti-Trump sentiments and other comments that appeared to favor Clinton.
For entire story: Sara Carter, Hannity.com