Craig s list ads offering to pay protesters $16 to stir up violence at Trump events makes us want to puke!
What in the world has free speech come to when Hillary Clinton and George Soros via Moveon.org offer to pay people to stop free speech?
Pretty shameful!
Soros has his hand in the 2016 election and is funding much of the protests against Trump.
The guy is just plain evil!The Daily Caller Reported:The Establishment on both the left and the right, who want to disenfranchise the millions of Republican voters who support Donald Trump, have blamed the staged riots near Trump rallies on Trump or on Bernie Sanders.
That s like blaming the Russians for the Reichstag Fire.
Bernie has little to do with these manufactured protests.
This is a Clinton operation, a faux protest.At #CrushTrump NYC, dancing loons think democracy means chanting and dancing, rather than free speech and voting.
pic.twitter.com/6DTibaiSiK Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 20, 2016False flag operations have long been common in politics, but these riots are poisonous to the electorate, intentionally designed to turn violent and stifle free speech.
Dad tells kids: look at [Veterans for Trump] in the eye we re gonna be fighting against them KKK #CrushTrump pic.twitter.com/ioENypqcCU Raheem Kassam (@RaheemKassam) March 19, 2016 This free speech-busting goon squad operation is directed by supporters of Hillary Clinton.
It is paid for mostly by George Soros and MoveOn.org and pushed by David Brock at Media Matters for America.
It s also funded by reclusive billionaire Jonathan Lewis, who was identified by the Miami New Times as a mystery man.
He inherited roughly a billion dollars from his father Peter Lewis (founder of Progressive Insurance Company).A march and demonstration against Trump at Trump Tower essentially fizzled Saturday when only 500 protesters of the promised 5000 showed up.
Infiltrating the crowd, I learned most were from MoveOn or the Occupy movement.
Soap was definitely in short supply in this crowd.
Several admitted answering a Craig s list ad paying $16.00 an hour for protesters.Read more: GP