(Reuters) - After 21 weeks at the controls of the White House and both chambers of the U.S. Congress, President Donald Trump and his Republicans have yet to pass major legislation into law and are short on time to do so before Washington’s long summer recess.
The House of Representatives reconvened on Tuesday.
It will be in session for the next nine weekdays, along with the Senate, which reconvened on Monday.
Both chambers will take a break from July 1-9, then return and work July 10-28.
After that, Capitol Hill will be quiet through the annual August vacation.
Trump set high expectations as a candidate and early in his presidency, promising to repeal and replace Obamacare, invest in infrastructure and work to cut taxes and regulations.
These pledges have helped fuel a powerful stock market rally.
Trump’s only big domestic policy win, aside from killing a handful of Obama-era regulations, has been Senate approval 10 weeks ago of a new Supreme Court justice.
The White House has not sent Congress a legislative proposal on any major issue.
Trump has been swamped by investigations into possible ties between his campaign and alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
In Congress, the House has approved an Obamacare rollback bill, but it has stalled in the Senate.
On Tuesday, Vice President Mike Pence predicted a Republican healthcare bill would be enacted by the end of summer.
Competing tax reform plans have divided Republicans in both chambers.
No firm infrastructure plan has emerged, and lawmakers have not yet formulated a budget plan for 2018.
Urgent budget deadlines will follow the August break, and later in the year, lawmakers will begin focusing on the 2018 congressional elections.
Here is a look at key dates coming up.
June 20: Special House elections in Georgia and South Carolina.
June 30: Congress starts Independence Day break.
July 7-8: Trump attends G20 summit in Germany, his first face-to-face meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
July 28: Congress adjourns for five-week summer recess.
July-August: U.S. Treasury may no longer be able to postpone the federal debt limit, although this may not arrive until late 2017.
Sept. 5: Congress reconvenes.
Sept. 30: End of federal fiscal year 2017.
Without congressional action, funding for many programs will expire.
Oct. 1: Start of federal fiscal year 2018.
Current federal spending deal expires.
Without a new deal, the federal government could shut down.