We reported that Maxine Waters and members of the CBC met with Louis Farrakhan but we now know that she also was a guest at Farrakhan s Nation of Islam convention!
Louis Farrakhan and his Nation of Islam are as un-American and hateful as you can get.
They are anti-semites and believe that whites are inherently inferior.
Farrakhan often preaches hate for the West and for whites and Jews.NOTICE HOW MAXINE WATERS IN THE RED IS GREETED BY FARRAKHAN AT THE 3:40 MARK:Daily Caller reports:Democratic California Rep. Maxine Waters attended a Nation of Islam convention where the hate group s leader, Louis Farrakhan, defended Palestinian suicide bombers.The convention, which took place in California in 2002, is just the latest tie to emerge between Democrats and the Nation of Islam, a black nationalist group known for being viciously anti-Semitic.
We have Maxine Waters here, Farrakhan told the convention audience, gesturing to the seats behind him, our great congresswoman from this area.
The audience cheered Waters name.Later in his speech, Farrakhan excused Palestinian suicide bombers and defended Iran for arming Palestinian terrorists.OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE CBC MEMBERS WHO MET WITH FARRAKHAN:WATCH members of the Black Caucus, who were all caught on video embracing one of the most openly hateful racists of our time, Louis Farrakhan of the Nation of Islam in a newly released video.The new images and videos show Congressional Democrats, some of whom are still serving, warmly embracing Farrakhan in 2006 at a church in New Orleans.
The footage was brought to light by columnist Jeryl Bier.
Bier has been tweeting the following images and video of the encounterAmericans were shocked when an Obama image recently emerged that was kept a secret by the photographer who took it because he believed it would hurt the future president s political career.
Here is that image that was hidden from the public:Wall Street Journal journalist Jeryl Bier was the first to break this story:2006, in a side room off a church foyer in New Orleans:@LouisFarrakhan: Tell me how I can be of service.
@RepMaxineWaters: I think we need to get together and talk about how we re going to put New Orleans on the national agenda.
https://t.co/Z3w9cpLTnf pic.twitter.com/YPXf0NMaPS Jeryl Bier (@JerylBier) January 30, 2018The woman who screams Impeach Trump almost every time she opens her mouth, and had made several attempts at trying to label President Trump as a racist with absolutely no evidence, Democrat Black Caucus member, Maxine Waters is seen hugging one of the most notorious racists in America, Louis Farrakhan:Here are a few more Democrat Black Caucus members seen hugging race baiter and hate mongerer Louis Farrakhan.Democrat Rep. William JeffersonDemocrat Rep. Barbara LeeDemocrat Rep. Al Green