Donald Trump s obsession with lashing out at people on Twitter instead of attending national security briefings caused Michael Moore to plead with him to do his job.Say what you want about the filmmaker, no one can deny that Michael Moore is absolutely right about this issue no matter what side of the political aisle you are on.During an appearance on Late Night with Seth Meyers, Moore pointed out that Trump has only attended 3 out of 21 daily briefings offered to him since Election Day.Needless to say, these briefings are incredibly important because they give president-elects the opportunity to learn more about the threats facing our nation so they are prepared for whatever may happen during their term in office.
And as this country brutally learned in 2001, these briefings can warn us about possible terrorist attacks so that we can try to prevent them.But George W. Bush was not engaged as he should have been during his first year as president and also missed or ignored daily briefings.
One of those briefings warned that Osama bin Laden was poised to launch a terrorist strike against the United States using airplanes.Bush went fishing and America suffered the consequences on September 11th.But Trump is even worse than President Bush.
He would rather spend his time bashing Saturday Night Live on Twitter instead of attending a briefing that may warn of another terrorist attack.
And that puts our nation at serious risk.
As a CEO, Trump s biggest concern was how to make a profit.
Now he has a job that includes being responsible for the lives and safety of all Americans.
But he isn t taking it seriously and Michael Moore looked into the camera and spoke directly to Trump asking him to do his job.
You have to pay attention, you have to attend these briefings, Moore said.
This is our country, this is our security, this is our safety.
You re horsing around with all this nonsense, and you re not doing your No.
1 job.
And the No.
1 job of the president is to make sure the country is safe.
I m asking you to do your job.
For the sake of the people who may end up dead.
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump needs to start taking the presidency seriously.
That means attending the daily briefings and studying up on how things work instead of being on Twitter all the time.
Because if Trump doesn t do his job, the next terrorist attack will be his fault.
And Republicans will not have anyone else to blame but themselves.Featured Image: Screenshot