It s potentially a world record: Trump managed to insult his foreign hosts almost immediately after stepping foot off of Air Force One.
And making matters worse, the misstep was so easy to avoid.
Numerous people tried to warn him but he couldn t be bothered.One of Donald Trump s favorite things to do is give two thumbs up.
Despite being a 70-year-old man currently facing several FBI and congressional investigations into campaign wrongdoing and a new investigation into possible obstruction of justice, Trump s go-to gesture is a big smile and a thumbs up for the cameras.
Nixon had the double peace sign, Trump has his thumbs up.
I guess it s supposed to project confidence in the face of so much chaos.
Is it working?But to anyone with even cursory knowledge of Saudi Arabian customs, the gesture Trump loves so much doesn t mean the same thing over there.
In fact, like many places around the world, a thumbs up is equivalent to giving a middle finger.
Knowing Trump s ignorance of other cultures and his love for the gesture meant anyone could see that he was walking into a disaster.
He was warned.
Repeatedly.Taboos in Saudi Arabia.
Last bullet point = Trump's signature gesture.
pic.twitter.com/6vBCgMoquA Annie Karni (@anniekarni) May 20, 2017One would assume Trump might scan the list of taboos on the 14-hour flight over to a country he s never been, but Trump whose pastimes include watching Fox News and eating fast food apparently skipped the memo.
Too many words.Instead, Trump stepped off his plane and instantly did what everyone knew he would: Thumbs up!Did Trump spend the plane ride over studying Arab customs, or yelling at subordinates and eating KFC with silver cutlery?
pic.twitter.com/SbCHbUojnU Tom the Dancing Bug (@RubenBolling) May 20, 2017Trump s insta-gaffe is just another sign that the president is not taking his first trip abroad seriously.
Already sources within the White House have leaked Trump s dread of the trip.
He repeatedly asked that the trip be shortened.
He refused to prep for it.Meanwhile, foreign dignitaries are preparing for Trump s visit by Trump-proofing everything.
Diplomats are encouraged to play to Trump s outsized ego and limited attention span:Keep it short no 30-minute monologue for a 30-second attention span.
Do not assume he knows the history of the country or its major points of contention.
Compliment him on his Electoral College victory.
Contrast him favorably with President Barack Obama.
Do not get hung up on whatever was said during the campaign.
Stay in regular touch.
Do not go in with a shopping list but bring some sort of deal he can call a victory.The bar being set so low for Trump probably means that the Saudis weren t particularly surprised that Trump immediately flashed a rude gesture.
In the same way a toddler might get away with behavior that would be unacceptable for an older person, Trump s inability to rise to any occasion, no matter how easy, means he s given a lot of leeway.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images