Donald Trump stroked his own ego again and got humiliated for it.During a very creepy Cabinet meeting where each member took their turn praising Trump on national television, Trump bragged about the number of bills he has signed, claiming to have signed more legislation than any other president in history except Franklin Roosevelt.
I will say that never has there been a president with few exceptions, in the case of FDR he had a major Depression to handle who s passed more legislation, who s done more things than what we ve done, Trump boasted.Technically, it s sort of true.
Actually, Roosevelt and Truman signed more.
But the kind of legislation Trump has signed thus far is insignificant.
For instance, most of the bills include creating memorials, designating buildings, appointing members to the Smithsonian board, encouraging Americans to display the flag on a certain day, and a bunch of other pithy bills that really are pathetic when you consider all the major pieces of legislation other presidents signed after they took office.But that didn t stop Trump from blowing his own horn again on Twitter Friday morning.I ve helped pass and signed 38 Legislative Bills, mostly with no Democratic support, and gotten rid of massive amounts of regulations.
Nice!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 23, 2017Again, Trump has no major legislative achievements, and it should be pointed out that President Obama signed plenty of bills, including major pieces of legislation without Republican support.
Unlike Trump, Obama didn t whine about it.Predictably, and rightfully so, Twitter users were quick to bash Trump for bragging about his pathetic record.Literally every single major legislative effort you ve had has FAILED DRAMATICALLY!
Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) June 23, 2017Except that the regulations that this administration got rid of were essential to protecting the environment and checking Wall St excesses.
Anirvan Ghosh (@anirvanghosh) June 23, 2017Praising yourself = sad & desperate Ending self praise with Nice!
= high fiving yourself after masturbating Pep Rosenfeld (@peprosenfeld) June 23, 2017No Major Bills, despite having the House and Senate on your side.
NOT NICE!
Impeach Donald Trump (@Impeach_D_Trump) June 23, 2017you ve mostly just removed laws that protect living creatures.
Congratulations, fuck face.
https://t.co/OjgRh2V7Id.
kim (@kim) June 23, 2017Congrats as well, 4 signing bill that now allows hibernating bears in Alaska 2 be shot by hunters, as well as tracked by aircraft & killed!!
Pam W ??????
(@dallaspamela53) June 23, 2017You are a seriously needy lil bitch Rogue CPI (@RogueCPI) June 23, 2017It takes a real small man to feel the need to brag.
Thanks for the daily reminder of how weak and fragile you are #LamePOTUS Scott Greenstone (@sgreenstonenj) June 23, 2017Donald Trump is a pathetic old man who should be getting impeached and thrown in prison for the rest of his miserable life.
Instead, Republicans are letting him disgrace the presidency and embarrass the United States on a daily basis.
2020 can t get here soon enough.Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images