Despite claims to the contrary, Donald Trump has made it crystal clear that he is no friend to minorities.
But members of the Congressional Black Caucus intend to fight him tooth and nail to protect people of color.
As such, they have formulated a battle plan to resist policies that may be harmful to these communities The stakes are incredibly high and our community is counting on us as the last line of defense between Donald Trump and the worst of what America could offer, Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) said.Throughout his campaign, Trump proposed policies targeting specific minority groups, such as banning all Muslims from entering the U.S. and building a wall to keep out all the rapey Mexicans.
He was also the champion of the birther movement, which was nothing more than a racially motivated attack on the country s first African-American president.
The campaign that we saw over the last 12 months is very frightening.
And there s been no effort on his part to even temper his comments since being elected, said outgoing CBC Chairman G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.).
It s going to be very contentious, I suspect, if Mr. Trump even follows through on half of his promises during the campaign.
Incoming CBC Chairman Cedric Richmond (D-La.)
plans to lay out the CBC s plan in more detail when he officially takes office on Tuesday.
But he says that the people Trump has appointed to his cabinet are highly concerning.
We speak for vulnerable people, we speak for the disenfranchised and we take that seriously, Richmond said.
And those appointments seem to be tone-deaf to sensitivity and to, I think, just common sense.
At the top of the worrisome list of cabinet appointments are Alabama senator and open racist Jeff Sessions, who is Trump s attorney general pick, and alt-right hero and former Breitbart bigwig, Steve Bannon, Trump s senior adviser.
The appointments should concern not just minorities but all Americans, said Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.).
When you look at Sessions, I mean he doesn t have the most stellar reputation for civil rights and voting rights.
It s rough.
Members of the CBC note that this is a first.
Having a battle plan to resist the racist policies of an incoming president is hardly business as usual.
This is not the normal incoming president, added Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.).
We had no plan for George Bush.
I think Charlie Rangel and John Conyers would tell you they didn t even have a plan for Richard Nixon.
But this is not the norm.
Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images