Barack Hussein Obama the most anti-American President to ever occupy the White House This isn t an article from The Onion.
Obama s Department of Education is proposing that schools spend a week celebrating illegal aliens, including an undocumented immigrant awareness day.
Can Celebrate Destruction of America Day be far behind?The document, which was released on Tuesday, also urges schools to provide welcoming environments for illegal alien students by hosting events such as Undocumented Week.
The guide also provides tips for schools and educators on how to support illegal alien youth who are in high school and college.
It also provides information for non-citizens on how to access federal financial aid[.
]The guide also urges schools to create welcoming environments for such students.Suggestions for how to support the students including hosting an undocumented immigrant awareness day.
You know, my idea of an undocumented immigrant awareness day is being educated what an illegal alien looks like and how to report them to the police.
But in Obama s America, it s all about throwing them a big party, complete with a Donald Trump pi ata.
Consider partnering with community and stakeholder groups to amplify the event, the guide suggests.A stakeholder group ?
Are they talking about taxpayers or citizens?Other proposals include: Publicly demonstrate support for undocumented students How do you think schools will demonstrate support for undocumented students?Student: Hey, Pedro, I know you re in the country illegally, but we re cool with that.
We think all laws should be enforced, except ones that inconvenience you.
and educate all students about the challenges and strengths of undocumented students, such as by hosting an Undocumented Week.
Challenges are easy.
Figuring out how to sign up for welfare.
Filling out the paperwork to register to vote.
Each day, highlight an issue faced by undocumented students or celebrate an accomplishment of the undocumented immigrant community, it continues.What accomplishments?
Living off the American taxpayer?
Continuing to resist learning our language?
Our nation s public schools should be welcoming, safe, and supportive places where all students, regardless of their zip code or where they were born, are given the opportunity to succeed, John King, a senior adviser at the Department of Education said in a statement.
regardless of what ZIP code they were born in?
King is making it sound as though we re discriminating against people born in a different part of Nebraska.
These are people from other countries who came here illegally.
Why should we be welcoming people who invaded our borders illegally?
Via: American Thinker