.New York City s Inner Circle Dinner is typically an event where politicians and journalists rub elbows to raise money for charity by participating in parody skits for the enjoyment of donors.
People who go expect to see some famous faces, have some laughs and do some good for their city.
What they don t expect is for things to turn racist, which is, sadly, what happened when Mayor Bill Blasio and Hillary Clinton took the stage to perform a skit about Blasio s endorsement of the former Secretary of State taking a little too long for her liking.That s when the unfortunate happened.
Like most public appearances by politicians, these things are typically scripted by a speech-writing team.
How this one slipped past the goalie without anyone realizing how incredibly derogatory it is is baffling.
It s unclear which of the pair s team came up with the joke, but what is clear is that it was NOT funny.
Clinton starts by razzing Blasio for taking too long to endorse her, to which Blasio responds, I was on C.P.
time.
Clinton jumps in and adds that it means cautious politician time.
C.P.
time is actually a slang term for colored people time, intended to make fun of black people for being late.
It s a horrible stereotype by itself, but when you add the insult of colored people, you have a joke that was destined to fail from the get-go.Blasio, whose wife is black and whose children are mixed-race, has been known to make racially charged comments in the past, perhaps believing that his own family demographics give him a pass, but Secretary Clinton, who isn t known as a racist, most certainly should have known better than to take part in that skit.
She will certainly struggle to explain it and the apology machine will have to move swiftly to make this right.
With the Democratic primaries already devolving into a mudslinging match, the last thing Clinton or the party needs is to fuel the fires of Bernie supporters who already classify her as a Republican.It would be extremely hypocritical for us as Democrats and liberals to overlook the incident completely and attempt to brush it off as merely a joke, considering what we would do and say if it were Ted Cruz or Donald Trump on that stage.
This was a massive gaffe that shows that no matter how progressive our leaders are, even they can be insensitive to the racial tensions we face as a nation.Here s the scene, courtesy of the New York Post:Featured image from screen capture