Kellyanne Conway whined about the media again and Chuck Todd smacked her down.Donald Trump has serious conflicts of interest that he should have to resolve before he is allowed to set one foot in the White House.It s pretty clear that Trump intends to intermingle his business with politics over the next four years and that s a major problem the country does not need.That s why the Wall Street Journal is calling for him to liquidate his assets and focus entirely on running the country.
Because running it part-time just simply won t do.But Kellyanne Conway, Trump s former campaign manager who must have problems looking at herself in the mirror every morning knowing that she sold her fucking soul to help install a dictator into the highest office in the land, complained on Meet The Press on Sunday morning that doing so would rob Trump s kids of controlling the business.Of course, that s bullshit.
We all know that Trump s kids get their marching orders from their daddy.
And the fact that Ivanka Trump has been sitting in on meetings with foreign leaders makes it clear that the conflict of interest will continue to exist even if Trump hands the company over to them.Conway argued that Trump has already put the country first by running for president and winning.
And then she started to attack the media for not treating Donald Trump like a cool guy we can all trust.
You know, Chuck, he has put the country ahead of everything else just by running and, indeed, winning and becoming president of the United States.
I went and looked back at what all the press clips and conversations on shows like this were eight years ago, it was basically just debating on how cool Barack Obama is.
So, we should at least if we re not going to do that about President-elect Trump we should at the very least trust him to do the right thing.
Except that Donald Trump is not cool.
He s a creep who sexually assaults women and brags about it.
He s a selfish wealthy prick who sticks it to the taxpayers any chance he gets.
And, like Conway, he s a thin-skinned whiner who can t handle criticism or the truth, which is why Chuck Todd called Conway out.
I understand every knee-jerk push back is going to be to blame the media, Todd said.
It s a crutch.
I get it and I m used to it.
Not by me!
Conway insisted.
That s not fair!
Here s the video via YouTube:Oh, but it is fair, Kellyanne.
And it s about time someone in the press called you out for it.
In virtually every media appearance she makes, blaming the media is, indeed, the crutch Conway uses when having to deal with tough legitimate questions from journalists.
She did it throughout the campaign and she is still doing it now.
It s pathetic.Featured Image: Screenshot