Mitt Romney s top adviser in the 2012 election has just accepted what any reasonable Republican that cares about the future of America will have to come to terms with: Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton would be a better president than the current GOP front runner, Donald Trump.Stuart Stevens reluctantly admitted this on Tuesday during Bloomberg s With All Due Respect.
The star strategist said: Personally, I think Hillary Clinton would be a better president than Donald Trump because I think that Donald Trump is a dangerous person and is someone who would embarrass America.
Stevens added that this didn t necessarily mean that he supported Clinton, but that the prospect of backing Trump was something he couldn t possibly stomach.
I have no desire to see Hillary Clinton as president of the United States.
But if this is the choice I will not give her my vote, but I can t support Donald Trump.
We can t blame Stevens for not wanting to be part of the reason that America imploded.
You can watch Stevens interview below: Stevens has been bashing Trump for months, previously stating: I don t think he s going to be on the ballot by Feb. 1.
The greatest sin in his value system is to be a loser, and most people who run for president lose.
I don t think he ll risk it.
Of course, Trump took to Twitter and gave it right back to him in his usual childlike manner:TwitterNo one thought Trump would make it this far, but he has and the more level-headed Republicans are scrambling to do whatever damage control they can.
As Trump continues to look like a more likely candidate for the GOP nomination, Stevens is hardly the only Republican who is refusing to back Trump if he wins.
On Tuesday, Rep. Scott Rigell (R-Va.) emailed supporters and said that he would not be standing behind someone so lacking in the judgement, temperament and character needed to be our nation s commander-in-chief.
Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.)
even said he would back a third-party candidate instead of Trump.
It s unsure how the GOP will ever be taken seriously now that Trump has obliterated any remaining respect the party had.
Featured image via Flickr and screenshots