Donald Trump likes to brag occasionally that he runs a very frugal campaign.
Supporters have said this is proof that he ll run a very frugal country, too.
How is it that he regularly only spends a fraction of what Hillary spends on her campaign?
A large part of it is that he doesn t pay his many of his staffers not even his top ten staffers.That s not frugal.
That s cheap.Kellyanne Conway, who became Trump s campaign manager after Paul Manafort left, hasn t been paid for her work in July, according to FEC filings.
Paul Manafort wasn t paid for his work.
Michael Caputo, Trump s former communications director, hasn t been paid.
While a legal scholar says that it s unusual for a campaign to have volunteers at such high levels, Caputo says he was not a volunteer.
Sometimes, people at high levels will opt to be unpaid, such as John Podesta, who is working on Hillary Clinton s campaign.But Caputo wasn t among staffers who may have done that.
He just hasn t been paid.People at these levels usually draw a six-figure salary, so what is up with this?
Contrary to Trump supporters claims, this is not a good thing.
This does not demonstrate that Trump will be the fiscal conservative they re praying for.
This shows a man who s unwilling to pay people for legitimate work.
People really think he s going to fight to bring the good-paying jobs back?
Ha!
Not bloody likely.
Not if he won t even take care of his own staff.He s become a typical greedy businessman in that regard.
To cut costs, hurt the people you depend on to keep your organization running.
Hey, they re only people, and some people matter while others don t. If their stations are lower, they clearly don t matter.Of course, this is in addition to the gag orders that Trump makes people sign, promising not to say mean things about him upon leaving the campaign.
Trump will surely treat everyone better once he s elected, though, right?
Right.
All he wants is to make America great again.
Or turn America into a cesspool, and then tell us that we ll call it great again and like it.Campaigns will generally rely on volunteers for low-level work, such as working phone banks and knocking on doors, mailing fliers, things of that nature.
It s one thing if all of these staffers likewise agreed to be volunteers, but chances are at least some didn t, considering that Caputo didn t. That s disgraceful.Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images