Right-wing Christian extremism is a cancer that is infecting American society at all levels, and the worst of it is that it has infected our school systems at an alarming level.
Case in point a school board member in Omaha, Nebraska, who literally told atheists to crawl back in their hellhole all over changing the school calendar to read winter break instead of Christmas break.
Paul Meyer, who sits on the Millard Public School Board, is your typical Christian extremist, hellbent on injecting his personal religious beliefs into government and ignoring the United States Constitution.
Meyer insists that he is a little bit tired of a minute minority in this country that keeps pushing Christmas out, keep pushing God out, keep pushing Christ out, when the majority is still a Judeo-Christian country.
Meyer went on to say: I would like to make a motion that we rename this period Christmas break, and those atheists who don t like it can crawl back into their hellhole, because I, for one, will not put my Lord, my God, aside for a few atheists.
And if they don t like it, the ACLU doesn t like it, the heck with them.
Aside for this, another example is the fact that Meyer was on the wrong side when a State Board of Education member Pat MacPherson wrote racist opinions about President Obama.
Regarding the school calendar issue, no one seconded Meyer s move to rename the winter break Christmas break, and now his religious intolerance has rendered the break nameless.
Meyer went on to say: The responsibility of this board is to set a good example for the kids of this state.
But what you show these kids is that the First Amendment is null and void, and does not apply to anyone if the speech Nazis disagree.
So in other words, this guy sincerely believes that a good example is the idea that America is a Christian nation and no one else should get a voice, that Christian values should be everywhere, the Constitution be damned.This man needs to be kicked off the school board, as he has no business having any influence whatsoever over school children.Featured image via Omaha.com