Here s what some ignorant race baiting Twitter users had to say about the recent tragedy that involved the killing of a Silverback Gorilla, after a 4 year old boy fell into the exhibit in the Cincinnati Zoo.
One of the users claimed the white boy who was only saved because he was white.
Meanwhile, one of these fools actually said if the boy was black the endangered gorilla would have only been tranquilized.
LOL!Tweets are courtesy of Breitbart News:There are so many things we could point out that are wrong with these ignorant tweets, but clearly the most stinging mistake was the accusations being made about the skin color of the boy.Here s a picture the mother of the 4-year-old boy who fell into the Gorilla World exhibit at the Cincinnati Zoo, which lead to the fatal shooting of Harambe the gorilla.
She has been identified as Michelle Gregg.
She is clearly not suffering from white privilege LOL!The 32-year-old mom of four and Cincinnati resident posted a now-deleted Facebook post thanking the zoo for making the difficult decision to shoot the gorilla to save her son.Here is her Facebook post explaining the incident:Harambe, a 17-year-old western lowland silverback gorilla, was killed after dragging the boy through a moat inside the exhibit.Watch video here: The Zoo security team s quick response saved the child s life.
We are all devastated that this tragic accident resulted in the death of a critically-endangered gorilla, Zoo Director Thane Maynard said in a statement.
This is a huge loss for the Zoo family and the gorilla population worldwide.
Videos of the incident were recorded by a bystander and posted on social media.
The videos show the 400-pound gorilla grabbing the 4-year-old boy and dragging him through a moat area.
He then stops and stands over the boy, before dragging him further into the enclosure.During one part of the video, which you can watch below, Michelle Gregg can be heard talking to her crying son and saying Oh God, please protect him, while panicked zoo visitors call for help.
Isaiah, be calm, Gregg calls out.
Be calm, be calm.
In another part of the video, she can be heard saying, Mommy s right here, and mommy loves you.
Kim O Connor, who recorded video of the incident, said it appeared the gorilla was trying to protect the child.
I don t know if the screaming did it or too many people hanging on the edge, if he thought we were coming in, but then he pulled the boy down away further from the big group, Kim O Connor told WLWT-TV.Cincinnati Fire Chief Marc Monahan said in a statement to NBC News that the gorilla was seen violently dragging and throwing the child.
He said the gorilla was neutralized by a Cincinnati Zoo employee with one shot from a long rifle.The family issued this statement through a PR firm: We are so thankful to the Lord that our child is safe.
He is home and doing just fine.
We extend our heartfelt thanks for the quick action by the Cincinnati Zoo staff, the statement from Gail Myers Public Relations said.
We know that this was a very difficult decision for them, and that they are grieving the loss of their gorilla.
We hope that you will respect our privacy at this time.
The 4-year-old boy was released from a local children s hospital on Sunday.
He suffered serious, but not life-threatening, injuries, authorities said.
Via: Heavy