A gay man cornered Ted Cruz on Monday and the Republican presidential candidate couldn t handle the simple question posed to him.During a forum on ABC s Good Morning America hosted by Robin Roberts, an openly gay Republican restaurant owner concerned about so-called religious liberty laws being passed by states like North Carolina and Mississippi asked Cruz how he would protect LGBT people from discrimination if he were to become president.
I ve noticed a lot of religious freedom laws and somewhat institutionalized discrimination laws happening around the country.
What would you as president do to protect me and my husband?
Todd Calogne directly asked.And Cruz didn t waste time going into spin-mode.The Texas Senator claimed that the anti-LGBT laws protects everyone even though they blatantly allow business owners to discriminate against LGBT customers and employees by shielding their bigotry with the Bible under the guise of religious freedom.
Religious liberty, it applies to Jews, it applies to Christians, it applies to Muslims, it applies to atheists, Cruz said even though he has repeatedly stated his intention to violate the religious liberty of Muslims and atheists.
Also, being gay isn t a religion, it s a sexual orientation.
And all of us, we want to live in a world where we don t have the government dictating our beliefs, dictating how we live, Cruz continued.
We have a right to live according to our faith, according to our conscience.
And we shouldn t have a right to force others to give up their faith and give up their belief.
And I think that keeping government out of the way of your lives protects the freedom of every one of us.
Cruz dodged Calogne s question but Robin Roberts didn t let him get away with it.
A lot of people would say, doesn t everyone have the freedom to be treated equally?
she asked.
Don t we all have the freedom to be equal?
Of course we do, Cruz flat-out lied to the faces of every American watching.
Cruz then declared that the First Amendment protects everyone equally, it protects our faith before launching into how he intends to push for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, which finally gave Calogne the answer he had been waiting for.
Under the Constitution, marriage is a question for the states.
And so if someone wants to change the marriage laws, I don t think it should be five unelected lawyers down in Washington dictating that.
If you want to change the marriage law, convince your fellow citizens to change the laws.
In other words, Cruz would NOT protect the rights of gay people as president.
He would strip rights from them and treat them like second-class citizens.Here s the video via ABC: ABC Breaking News | Latest News Videos Religious liberty laws like those in North Carolina and Mississippi allow anti-gay business owners to openly discriminate against gay people.
It s legalized bigotry similar to the kind experienced by black people in the 1960s during segregation.
And Republicans are literally hiding behind religion to justify and protect their bigotry.Featured Image: Flickr