When the daughter of President Trump visited Japan, she had an all-female security detail.
When the wife of the man the left has attempted to label a sexist (with no factual basis) arrives in Japan with the President in a couple of days, she too will have an all-female security detail.
But that s still not good enough for the liberal media.
Today, a female writer for the liberal rag, The Washington Post wrote an article about the all-female security detail for the First Lady and the President s daughter.
The article suggests that the decision to employ an all-female security detail, is actually kind of sexist LOL!Amanda Erickson goes on to demean an belittle the female police officers in Japan, suggesting that they aren t really properly trained to do the type of work their male counterparts are capable of doing.
Near the end of the article, she throws in a jab about Michelle Obama also having an all-female detail in Japan.It s funny, but we just can t remember The Washington Post criticizing her or the female police force when Mooch made her awkward appearance in Japan, where Mooch talked about, what else?
Inequality yawn!When the first daughter arrived in Japan on Thursday, she was greeted by dozens of black suit-wearing female bodyguards from Tokyo s Metropolitan Police Department.The all-female security team was deployed to protect Trump from the thousands of adoring fans she has in the Asian nation, but it seemed their usual body armor and riot gear was not fitting attire to guard Ivanka.Melania Trump and other female dignitaries will be protected by an all-woman police team during the Japan trip https://t.co/TEDsbtHC07 pic.twitter.com/Z4N7AAfN0M CNN (@CNN) November 3, 2017 We opted for a more cultivated look to suit the occasion, an officer in charge of the security plan told Japan s Asahi Shimbun.Wrapping up a productive day of meetings with Foreign Minister Kono, Minister Kato and Minister Noda on workforce development and women s economic empowerment.
A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Nov 3, 2017 at 12:57am PDTThe all-female security team was deployed to protect Trump from the thousands of adoring fans she has in the Asian nation, but it seemed their usual body armor and riot gear was not fitting attire to guard Ivanka.
We opted for a more cultivated look to suit the occasion, an officer in charge of the security plan told Japan s Asahi Shimbun.Enjoying my first visit to Japan with a traditional Kaiseki meal in Tokyo.
Thank you to our hosts for their warm hospitality A post shared by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Nov 2, 2017 at 5:50am PDTIvanka has become something of a fashion and feminist icon in Japan since her father s election to the presidency last November.
In Japan, the eldest Trump daughter is seen as an aspirational figure for women whose careers get sidelined after having children.
Fox News