Donald Trump is an idiot.
Ted Cruz is also an idiot.
Ted Cruz s father, Rafael Cruz is an idiot who is responsible for the birth of an idiot.
Now that that s out of the way, on Tuesday Donald Trump managed to say something so ridiculous that he makes Cruz and his father look like utter geniuses by comparison.
In his desperation to attack the greasy, weasly, lying right-wing extremist, Trump actually blamed Ted Cruz s father for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.Recently, the National Enquirer claimed that a photo unearthed from the Warren Commission s report on Kennedy s assassination depicted the elder Cruz handing out pro-Castro literature with Oswald just months before the latter shot and killed the president.
Rafael Cruz was an open Castro supporter and a self-avowed Marxist-Leninist, but even if he was photographed near Oswald that doesn t mean he was responsible for murdering a sitting President of the United States or does it?
(SPOILER: No.
F*ck no).Asked about Rafael Cruz stumping for his son, Trump told Fox and Friends that Ted Cruz s father is responsible (at least, in part) for Kennedy s death.
Citing the Enquirer story, he said: You know, there s a whole thing and, you know, his father was with Lee Harvey Oswald prior to Oswald s being you know, shot.
I mean, the whole thing is ridiculous.
What is this, right prior to his being shot, and nobody brings it up.
They don t even talk about that.
That was reported and nobody talks about it.
But I think it s horrible.
I think it s absolutely horrible that a man can go and do that.
I mean, what was he doing what was he doing with Lee Harvey Oswald shortly before the death?
Before the shooting?
Trump continued.
It s horrible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MyeHlkNBtFUTed Cruz later responded to Trump s claims that his father was at least partially responsible for killing JFK.
After calling Trump s assertion nuts and rightfully pointing out that is not a reasonable position, Cruz had some fun with the situation: I guess I should go ahead and admit that, yes, my dad killed JFK, he is secretly Elvis, and Jimmy Hoffa is buried in his backyard.
Whether or not Cruz actually killed JFK, the Enquirer stands by its claim that the photo does indeed depict Cruz and Oswald together, though Cruz denies even that much.
It s entirely possible that the photo may be legitimate, but there is as much chance that Rafael Cruz was involved in a presidential assassination as his son s likelihood of being elected President.Can we say for certain that Rafael Cruz didn t kill Kennedy?
No but I think it s a reasonable assumption that, if Cruz were involved, Donald Trump would not have broken the story.Watch Cruz mock Trump below:Featured image via Houston Chronicle/Getty Images (Scott Olson)