In what seems to be another misspeak moment for the Sanders campaign, Bernie s campaign manager Jeff Weaver appeared on CNN and completely stuck his foot in his mouth for going after Hillary Clinton s ambition to be president.
I mean, is she not supposed to be ambitious?
Wouldn t ambition be a good quality in a leader?
Someone that wants to get the job done?Weaver said: Don t destroy the Democratic Party to satisfy the secretary s ambitions to become president of the United States.
What he probably doesn t realize, in his ridiculously sexist remark, is the fact that he just directly ripped off an article from The Onion that was written back in 2006 before Hillary s first run at the White House.That story, literally titled Hillary Clinton Is Too Ambitious To Be The First Female President was of course making a parody of sorts and went after folks who thought it wise to go after Clinton for having the audacity to run for president.
They said: I think it s about time we had a female president of the United States.
I don t care what anyone says: Women can be just as smart and qualified as men especially the clowns we ve had in Washington lately.
But Hillary Clinton?
She s just a little too ambitious to do what no woman before her has ever done.Hillary seems to think she knows what our country needs better than anyone else, and believes that she, among the hundreds or thousands of qualified politicians, is the only one who can do it.
Is that really the sort of person we want at the helm of our federal government?
Also saying: Hillary doesn t shy away from tough situations, as she proved with her health- care proposal during her husband s first term.
She likes to tackle the hard problems, no matter how entrenched the current failing system seems to be.
Is it just me, or should the woman who overturns a 230-year-old tradition not have such a tendency to rock the boat?Hillary has some very strong opinions, and she certainly doesn t hesitate to voice them.
She s got an entire website dedicated to her positions on every last little thing.
In debates, she always wants to have the last word.
She s in love with the sound of her own voice.
That s not the sort of person who should be in politics, much less the White House.Do we really want the first woman leading the free world to be such an outright take-charge type?
Basically saying everything that every man has ever done who s ever run for office, but you know, since it s Hillary, well then she s too ambitious.
Now, let it be known that Weaver is not Sanders, and Sanders did not say this.
However, this sort of talk doesn t make the candidate look good and should likely be reined in a tad.
Maybe by Tad?C mon, Weaver, this is just awful.Here s the video via The Hill: Featured photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images