Donald Trump loves beautiful women.
We know that because he s told us that, repeatedly.
In fact, he once called hot women his alcoholism, especially if they are 17 or 18.
Salma Hayek is undeniably beautiful.
It s no wonder Trump tried to ask her out.
It s also no wonder that she said no.
What Trump did after that, though was pure Donald Trump.When I met that man, I had a boyfriend, and he tried to become his friend to get my home telephone number, she said, describing meeting Trump early in her career before she was well-known.
He got my number and he would call me to invite me out.
When I told him I wouldn t go out with him even if I didn t have a boyfriend, [which he took as disrespectful], he called well, he wouldn t say he called, but someone told the National Enquirer, Hayek continued, adding that she never went out with him.
Someone told the National Enquirer I m not going to say who, because you know that whatever he wants to come out comes out in the National Enquirer.
It said that he wouldn t go out with me because I was too short, she said.
Later, he called and left me a message.
Can you believe this?
Who would say this?
I don t want people to think this about you, she said.
He thought that I would try to go out with him so people wouldn t think that s why he wouldn t go out with me.
Like most things that come out of Trump s mouth, his denial didn t ring true, especially after it was revealed that he paid $120,000 from Trump Foundation money for a prize that included dinner with Hayek.Hayek has never particularly been a fan of Trump.
In August, she compared him to a first grader.
[ad3media campaign= 1214 ]She is a strong supporter, though, of Hillary Clinton.
Just days ago, she made a Spanish language video in support of the Secretary of State.I guess we ll have to wait and see what Trump has to say about Hayek in his next 3:00 Twitter rant.Featured image of Selma Hayek via Mike Coppola/Getty Images | Featured image of Donald Trump via Gerardo Mora/Getty Images.