EXTREME POSITIONS ON ABORTIONHillary Clinton positioned herself as a moderate on abortion for much of her career, but now holds the most extreme positions on abortion of any presidential candidate ever.Here are three reasons why:1.
She wants taxpayers to pay for abortion.Clinton supports government funding for abortion.
On June 10, Clinton delivered a speech at a Planned Parenthood event in which she called for repealing the Hyde Amendment, a policy that prevents taxpayer funding for abortion.
Let s repeal laws like the Hyde Amendment that make it nearly impossible for low-income women, disproportionately women of color, to exercise their full reproductive rights, she said.The Democratic National Committee added this goal to its platform after Clinton became the nominee.An August YouGov poll found that 55 percent of Americans support the Hyde Amendment.
This includes a large number of Democrats, who are about evenly divided.
Forty-one percent of Democrats support the ban on abortion funding while 44 percent oppose it, which is within the poll s margin of error (4.8 percentage points for the full sample).2.
She supports abortion until birth.Clinton supports abortion up until the moment of birth.She doesn t say it exactly like that, of course, because it sounds awful when you say a baby can be legally killed right before she s born.
Instead, Clinton uses some shifty Clintonian lingo.Clinton has said she supports restrictions only in the third trimester and only if there are exceptions for the life and health of the mother.
(In one interview she said there should only be restrictions at the very end of the third trimester. )
But as Clinton understands, and most voters don t, the health exception is just a huge loophole that allows for abortion for any reason.The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Doe v. Bolton, the companion case to Roe v. Wade, that the health exception can be whatever the abortionist decides it is.An abortionist s medical judgment may be exercised in the light of all factors physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and the woman s age relevant to the well-being of the patient.
All these factors may relate to health, the court decided.So, when Clinton says she ll only support abortion restrictions in the third trimester if there is a health exception, she is effectually saying there should be no restrictions on abortion through the entire pregnancy.
She admits this when pressed on the issue.In an April appearance on ABC s The View, Clinton was asked if she supports legal abortion just hours before delivery, and she agreed.
That same week, on NBC s Meet the Press, she was asked, when or if does an unborn child have constitutional rights?
She answered, the unborn person doesn t have constitutional rights.
A July 16 Marist poll found that only 13 percent of Americans think abortion should be legal through the entire pregnancy.
Similarly, a 2012 Gallup poll found only 14 percent of Americans believe abortion should be legal in the last three months of pregnancy, and a July 2014 HuffPost/YouGov poll found that 59 percent of Americans support a ban on abortions after 20-weeks of gestation, which is during the second trimester.
3.
She thinks abortion should be common, not rare.Clinton no longer argues that abortion should be rare.During his 1992 presidential campaign, Clinton s husband, Bill, said that abortion should be safe, legal and rare.
It was controversial at the time within the pro-choice community because saying that abortion should be rare implies that there is something wrong with getting an abortion.
(What could that be?)
But the phrase helped establish Bill Clinton s public image as a moderate on abortion.Read more: Christian Post