Last week, President Trump announced that by Presidential proclamation, Sunday, September 3, would be known as a National Day of Prayer for the Texas victims of Hurricane Harvey.
He asked all Americans to pray for the victims who, in many cases, lost everything.
It was a beautiful gesture that was met with positivity by many Americans of faith.Here is President Trump s tweet asking people to pray for the victims, reminding them: Remember, Sunday is National Prayer Day (by Presidential Proclamation)!
Remember, Sunday is National Prayer Day (by Presidential Proclamation)!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 3, 2017Of course, even asking Americans to pray for their fellow Americans who are suffering was more than at least one Hollywood liberal could bear.
Has been actress turned leftist activist, Alyssa Milano, whose short stint at fame took place much earlier in her career when she had starring roles in Who s the Boss?, Melrose Place and Charmed took to Twitter to rename President Trump s National Day of Prayer by telling her followers: Remember, Sunday is National Asshole Day (by Presidential Proclamation)!Remember, Sunday is National Asshole Day (by Presidential Proclamation)!
https://t.co/1DlYAJiEAa Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) September 4, 2017Milano was immediately rebuffed on Twitter by people who were disgusted by her tweet:What's wrong with prayer?
No matter who suggested it!
TabzKatz (@KatzTabz) September 4, 2017National Day of Prayer was about praying for ppl hurting from hurricane Harvey.
Shame on you for making it about your hatred for Trump!
WellBlessYourHeart (@kc2775) September 5, 2017This Twitter user told Milano that her tweet was the ugliest tweet ever posted on Twitter.
She went on to tell Milano that, You have lost yourself & your moral compass due to your hateful heart.
This is the ugliest tweet ever posted on Twitter.
Just absolutely foul.
You have lost yourself & moral compass due to your hateful heart.
CovfefeNanceBased (@NancyLCouch1) September 5, 2017There is no more room in the world for hate or HYPOCRICY Love is love And prayers & religion isn't a bad thing Its people who manipulate it TeamZayn (@ZLNLH0009) September 5, 2017This Twitter user used an image to let Milano know what they think of opinions by celebrities.
pic.twitter.com/jgdtGLQpRw Deplorable KVT (@sgtkvt) September 5, 2017This Twitter user reminded the broke actress that maybe she should stop worrying about President Trump and pay her taxes:Way to keep killing your career.
You think you are broke now ..https://t.co/l68c3q30CX Long little doggie (@54Doggie) September 5, 2017