This Congresswoman has a potty mouth and a bitter attitude towards whites.
She s a hateful racist who is paranoid that everyone is out to get her.
She just tossed baseless accusations at the Trump administration in an appearance on The Washington Post podcast Cape Up with Jonathan Capehart.
(See our previous report on the interview below.
)Here are the lowlights:Waters accused President Trump of colluding with Russia during the 2016 election, without offering evidence.
I believe this President has colluded with the Russians, with the Kremlin, with the oligarchs, perhaps, of Russia to undermine our election systems, Waters told Capehart.
(4:00) The California congresswoman also criticized the Senate investigation into Trump-Russia ties as not credible.
They re not moving fast enough!
she exclaimed.
However, she praised the media for their investigations into Trump-Russia ties.
(4:35) Waters described Attorney General Jeff Sessions as a throwback to the days of Jim Crow, equating Sessions with the era of segregation.
I think [Sessions] is a racist and I think he absolutely believes it s his job to keep minorities in their place.
She added that Sessions would like to go back to the days of segregation.
(9:30 12:00)As evidence of Sessions racism, Waters cited an instance where girls in traditional southern dresses greeted Trump and Sessions during the transition period.
Waters implication was that Sessions and Trump enjoyed the clothing because it reminded them of slavery.
The group, The Azalea Trail Maids, wears colorful traditional dresses to events.
(13:50)Capehart finally pushed her to find out if the U.S. government has seen evidence of collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.
No, we have not, Waters said.
That means Waters has repeatedly called for Trump s impeachment without yet seeing any evidence of wrongdoing.
(20:00)Our previous report on Maxine Waters said the Russia investigation has nothing on Trump:There is probably no one in Congress more openly opposed to President Donald Trump than Maxine Waters.
We have already seen that she has called for Trump s impeachment.
Therefore when even Waters states there is not yet any evidence at this time of Trump-Russia collusion, that is certainly significant.
That is why it is astonishing that Washington Post opinion writer Jonathan Capehart left that significant admission made during his own podcast off his May 9 column about it.First let us listen to the segment of Capehart s podcast in which Waters made her surprising admission:How convenient for the left-leaning publication to leave out a direct statement by Maxine Waters.
By the way, the title of the article is a rip roaring race baiting title:Maxine Waters: Jeff Sessions believes it s his job to keep minorities in their place Who does this in 2017?
Jeff Sessions is such a good man who DOES NOT deserve such a nasty comment from Congresswoman Waters.
Shame on her and shame on Capehart for making this comment the title!JONATHAN CAPEHART: I ve got to ask you, because you leveled a whole lot of accusations out there about collusions and hacking and all of that.
Have you seen anything, either through the intelligence briefings, anything to back up any of the accusations that you ve made?MAXINE WATERS: First of all, don t forget that all of our intelligence agencies say, yes, they have the documentation that they did the hacking on the DNC and on some of us.CAPEHART: But the collusion, though?WATERS: No, we have not.
That s why investigations are so important, to drill down and to connect those dots and to get the facts.
What we have is a lot of smoke that causes us to want to know more about what has happened.
Why is it there are so many people around him are connected to oil?
Why is it that Michael Flynn, who evidently has a great relationship with Putin, who has received payments for so-called speeches and who s spent a lot of time in Russia and was accused of talking about sanctions, he lied about it and he got caught?In his column writeup about his podcast interview with Maxine Waters, Capehart tossed that admission of no evidence of Trump-Russia collusion down the memory hole.Via: NTK