Recently, Donald Trump s New York campaign co-chair, Carl Paladino, did what Trump fans do best and made some incredibly racist remarks about the President and First Lady.
Asked about his wish for Barack Obama by a weekly Buffalo, New York, paper, Paladino explained that he hoped Barack Obama would be caught having sex with a cow and die from Mad Cow Disease.
As for Michelle, he explained that he wanted her to return to being a male and released in Africa to live among the apes.Naturally, Paladino s racist and hateful rhetoric the exact sort that is, unfortunately, popular among the Stupid Part of America didn t exactly make him friends outside of his racist little bubble.
In fact, some (almost everyone) had a bit of an issue with the fact that he serves on the Buffalo school board.
Words matter, Mr. Paladino, School Board President Barbara Seals Nevergold said during a meeting intended to oust the Trump-loving bigot.
Our president, the Commander in Chief of this nation for the last eight years, Mrs. Obama, our First Lady, and Mrs. Valerie Jarrett, special presidential council [SIC] are all African-Americans.
Among other things, they are accomplished, intelligent, beautiful people and that s not just my opinion.
The impact on children of color, especially African-American children is incalculable, she continued.
How do we encourage them to use their God-given talents to soar, to reach for the stars, when a sitting board member responsible for their education demonstrates such contempt of their role models?
Nevergold added that Paladino s unmitigated and hateful, racist and misogynist, rhetoric has reached a level that is almost guaranteed to adversely impact students of color.
Noting that his disgusting behavior demonstrate such a lack of responsible leadership, the school board president explained that people from all over the state had shared their views on Paladino s actions.
They would like me to tell you, You re fired, she said, demanding Paladino s resignation as the room exploded in applause.While Trump fans vigorously defend him, it is impossible for a rational person to believe that Paladino could possibly serve on the school board while simultaneously believing that black people are apes, gorillas, or any other primate conservatives seem to use interchangeably.Paladino, as is expected from any racist coward, skipped the meeting entirely rather than answer for what he has done.
Watch her rip him apart below:Featured image via screengrab