It looks as though the man most likely to get the Republican presidential nomination has decided to skip out on the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC).
Donald Trump was set to appear Saturday morning, but has instead decided he rather stick to campaigning.CPAC tweeted this out Friday morning:Very disappointed @realDonaldTrump has decided at the last minute to drop out of #CPAC his choice sends a clear message to conservatives.
CPAC (@CPAC) March 4, 2016And indeed it does send a clear message.
Speaking at CPAC has always been a sought after way to not only prove how loyal you are to Republican principles, but it also allows you the opportunity to speak in front of those whom many desire support from.Trump s campaign released this statement explaining their reasoning to skip CPAC: The Donald J. Trump for President Campaign has just announced it will be in Witchita, Kanas for a major rally on Saturday prior to Caucus.
He will also be speaking at the Kansas Caucus and then departing for Orlando, Florida and a crowd of approximately 20,000 people or more.
Because of this, he will not be able to speak at CPAC as he has done for many consecutive years.
Mr. Trump would like to thank Matt Schlapp and all of the executives at CPAC and looks forward to returning to next year, hopefully as President of the United States.
In response to Trump bailing, the American Conservative Union who organizes CPAC, said: We are very disappointed Donald Trump has decided at the last minute to drop out of CPAC.
This comes at a critical time in our movement s history.
His decision sends a clear message to grassroots conservatives CPAC is the heart and soul of the conservative movement and will be, with or without Mr. Trump.
Since we invited him several months ago and Mr. Trump accepted our invitation and terms we made it clear all candidates would follow the same format.
And now he is backing out.
Every other Republican presidential candidate is slated to appear and will be speaking.But of course, trying to stay relevant, Newt Gingrich quickly supporter Trump s decision:Trump was right to skip CPAC.
The votes are in Kansas not Washington.
Why give the anti-trump activists a target Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) March 4, 2016And while sure, Trump is very focused on winning the Republican primary, it wouldn t have been much to take the brief amount of time to speak one morning and then return to the campaign trail.
He s clearly not just skipping CPAC to campaign, but rather to send a message that he s not playing by Republican rules that have long since been the conservative standard in the election process.Featured image: flickr