House Speaker Paul Ryan may have been hoping to be re-elected come January, but thanks to his fellow conservatives it looks like he doesn t have a chance.
In fact, House GOPers are actively conspiring against Ryan to make sure that he doesn t succeed.Although these anti-Ryan conservatives don t have enough votes to oust their current Speaker of the House, they are plotting a coup movement to stop him from being elected again a move that could very well have an even bigger impact on his political career further down the line.
As a conservative member explained to The Huffington Post: If he loses the speaker election, he s not going to be president.
In a nutshell, Ryan s fellow conservatives are trying to kick him out of his position because he s not being the kind of conservative they want him to be.
Republicans really know how to stick together in a time when they need unity to save them from Donald Trump s circus.Of course, this would be completely humiliating for Ryan and even if his conservative haters couldn t indefinitely prevent Ryan from getting on the ballot for re-election, they might use this leverage to get certain changes made for their own benefit.
The Huffington Post explained that these GOPers are looking for increasing caucus representation on committees, bulking up subcommittee staff with hard-liners who could be groomed for election, allowing the GOP House campaign arm to collect contributions for the Freedom Caucus that could be directed to conservative candidates, and clarifying rules-suspension votes.
And some of these House conservatives are just plain furious that the GOP has taken on more moderate candidates and they re taking their frustration out on Ryan.
One member explained this by using an extremely inappropriate, strange analogy: How can you have a gang, and have one in your gang get stabbed, and do nothing?
You got to stab somebody, or else what s the point of having a gang?
Ryan has been House Speaker for less than a year, and his party is already going public with plans to oust him.
This just shows what a mess the GOP is right now.
Their Republican nominee is the worst thing to happen to the party, and this is further proof that the GOP as we know it is dividing and falling apart.Featured image via Win McNamee / Getty Images