On Sunday, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) said that the House Intelligence Committee will investigate any alleged surveillance of political parties as part of its investigation into Russian interference in the election, according to The Hill.
It s no surprise that Nunes is investigating alleged president Donald Trump s lie that Barack Obama had his phone wires tapped during the campaign.
In late February, Nunes, who served as a member of Trump s transition team, resisted calls for his House committee to investigate alleged contacts between Trump associates and Russia.
And now, he s going to investigate a baseless accusation from Trump in which the amateur president has offered no proof.
Put a Benghazi in front of it, and former President Barack Obama will be investigated ad nauseum.
One of the focus points of the House Intelligence Committee s investigation is the U.S. government s response to actions taken by Russian intelligence agents during the presidential campaign, Nunes said in a statement.
As such, the Committee will make inquiries into whether the government was conducting surveillance activities on any political party s campaign officials or surrogates, and we will continue to investigate this issue if the evidence warrants it, he added.The Hill reports:The statement comes hours after White House press secretary Sean Spicer tweeted Trump s request for Congress to include his wiretapping claims in the Russia probe.A spokesman for Obama denied that the former president or any White House official ordered surveillance of the then-president-elect.
It s also not within a President s power to order surveillance.
It goes to a judge first and through the proper channels.Nunes, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, recently joined ranking member Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) in laying out the parameters for the investigation into Russia s cyber activities, including links between Russia and any U.S. campaign officials.It s well documented by U.S Intelligence agencies that Russian President Vladimir Putin called for an influence campaign in an effort to help Trump win the White House.
And Trump won.
Trump still sings the praises of the Russian leader who is known for having his critics murdered.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.