Every American should read and share this brilliant article.So, to my friends on the Left and the #NeverTrumpers as well do I wish we lived in a time when our president could be collegial and dignified and proper ?
Of course I do.
These aren t those times.
This is war.
And it s a war that the Left has been fighting without opposition for the past 50 years.So, say anything you want about this president I get it, he can be vulgar, he can be crude, he can be undignified at times.
I don t care.
I can t spare this man.
He fightsHE FIGHTSMy Leftist friends (as well as many ardent #NeverTrumpers) constantly ask me if I m not bothered by Donald Trump s lack of decorum.
They ask if I don t think his tweets are beneath the dignity of the office.
Here s my answer:We Right-thinking people have tried dignity.
There could not have been a man of more quiet dignity than George W. Bush as he suffered the outrageous lies and politically motivated hatreds that undermined his presidency.
We tried statesmanship.
Could there be another human being on this earth who so desperately prized collegiality as John McCain?
We tried propriety has there been a nicer human being ever than Mitt Romney?
And the results were always the same.This is because, while we were playing by the rules of dignity, collegiality and propriety, the Left has been, for the past 60 years, engaged in a knife fight where the only rules are those of Saul Alinsky and the Chicago mob.I don t find anything dignified, collegial or proper about Barack Obama s lying about what went down on the streets of Ferguson in order to ramp up racial hatreds because racial hatreds serve the Democratic Party.
I don t see anything dignified in lying about the deaths of four Americans in Benghazi and imprisoning an innocent filmmaker to cover your tracks.
I don t see anything statesman-like in weaponizing the IRS to be used to destroy your political opponents and any dissent.
Yes, Obama was articulate and polished but in no way was he in the least bit dignified, collegial or proper.
The Left has been engaged in a war against America since the rise of the Children of the 60s.
To them, it has been an all-out war where nothing is held sacred and nothing is seen as beyond the pale.
It has been a war they ve fought with violence, the threat of violence, demagoguery and lies from day one the violent take-over of the universities till today.The problem is, through these years, the Left has been the only side fighting this war.
While the Left has been taking a knife to anyone who stands in their way, the Right has continued to act with dignity, collegiality and propriety.With Donald Trump, this all has come to an end.
Donald Trump is America s first wartime president in the Culture War.During wartime, things like dignity and collegiality simply aren t the most essential qualities one looks for in their warriors.
Ulysses Grant was a drunk whose behavior in peacetime might well have seen him drummed out of the Army for conduct unbecoming.
Had Abraham Lincoln applied the peacetime rules of propriety and booted Grant, the Democrats might well still be holding their slaves today.
Lincoln rightly recognized that, I cannot spare this man.
He fights.
General George Patton was a vulgar-talking, son-of-a-bitch.
In peacetime, this might have seen him stripped of rank.
But, had Franklin Roosevelt applied the normal rules of decorum, then Hitler and the Socialists would barely be five decades into their thousand-year Reich.Trump is fighting.
And what s particularly delicious is that, like Patton standing over the battlefield as his tanks obliterated Rommel s, he s shouting, You magnificent bastards, I read your book!
That is just the icing on the cake, but it s wonderful to see that not only is Trump fighting, he s defeating the Left using their own tactics.That book is Saul Alinsky s Rules for Radicals a book so essential to the Liberals war against America that it is and was the playbook for the entire Obama administration and the subject of Hillary Clinton s senior thesis.
It is a book of such pure evil, that, just as the rest of us would dedicate our book to those we most love or those to whom we are most indebted, Alinsky dedicated his book to Lucifer.Trump s tweets may seem rash and unconsidered but, in reality, he is doing exactly what Alinsky suggested his followers do.
First, instead of going after the fake media and they are so fake that they have literally gotten every single significant story of the past 60 years not just wrong, but diametrically opposed to the truth, from the Tet Offensive to Benghazi, to what really happened on the streets of Ferguson, Missouri Trump has isolated CNN.
He made it personal.
Then, just as Alinsky suggests, he employs ridicule which Alinsky described as the most powerful weapon of all.
Everyone gets that it s not just CNN in fact, in a world where Al Sharpton and Rachel Maddow, Paul Krugman and Nicholas Kristof are people of influence and whose reporting is in no way significantly different than CNN s CNN is just a piker.Most importantly, Trump s tweets have put CNN in an untenable and unwinnable position.
With Trump s ability to go around them, they cannot simply stand pat.
They need to respond.
This leaves them with only two choices.They can either go high (as Hillary would disingenuously declare of herself and the fake news would disingenuously report as the truth) and begin to honestly and accurately report the news or they can double-down on their usual tactics and hope to defeat Trump with twice their usual hysteria and demagoguery.The problem for CNN (et al.)
with the former is, if they were to start honestly reporting the news, that would be the end of the Democratic Party they serve.
It is nothing but the incessant use of fake news (read: propaganda) that keeps the Left alive.
Imagine, for example, if CNN had honestly and accurately reported then-candidate Barack Obama s close ties to foreign terrorists (Rashid Khalidi), domestic terrorists (William Ayers), the mafia (Tony Rezko) or the true evils of his spiritual mentor, Jeremiah Wright s, church.Imagine if they had honestly and accurately conveyed the evils of the Obama administration s weaponizing of the IRS to be used against their political opponents or his running of guns to the Mexican cartels or the truth about the murder of Ambassador Christopher Stevens and the Obama administration s cover-up.
This makes going high a non-starter for CNN.
This leaves them no other option but to ratchet up the fake news, conjuring up the next nothing burger and devoting 24 hours a day to hysterical rants about how it s worse than Nixon.
This, obviously, is what CNN has chosen to do.
The problem is, as they become more and more hysterical, they become more and more obvious.
Each new effort at even faker news than before, and faker outrage only makes that much more clear to any objective observer that Trump is and always has been right about the fake news media.And, by causing their hysteria, Trump has forced them into numerous, highly embarrassing and discrediting mistakes.
Thus, in their desperation, they have lowered their standards even further and run with articles so clearly fake that, even with the liberal (lower case l ) libel laws protecting the media, they ve had to wholly retract and erase their stories repeatedly.Their flailing at Trump has even seen them cross the line into criminality, with CNN using their vast corporate fortune to hunt down a private citizen for having made fun of them in an Internet meme.
This threat to dox release of personal information to encourage co-ideologists to visit violence upon him and his family a political satirist was chilling in that it clearly wasn t meant just for him.
If it were, there would have been no reason for CNN to have made their deal with him public.Instead, CNN playing by Chicago Rules was sending a message to any and all: dissent will not be tolerated.
This heavy-handed and hysterical response to a joke on the Internet has backfired on CNN, giving rise to only more righteous ridicule.So, to my friends on the Left and the #NeverTrumpers as well do I wish we lived in a time when our president could be collegial and dignified and proper ?
Of course I do.
These aren t those times.
This is war.
And it s a war that the Left has been fighting without opposition for the past 50 years.So, say anything you want about this president I get it, he can be vulgar, he can be crude, he can be undignified at times.
I don t care.
I can t spare this man.
He fights.Townhall published this brilliant article on July 13, 2017.
It was written by Conservative author and pundit Evan Sayet, who is the author of The KinderGarden of Eden: How The Modern Liberal Thinks.
His lecture to the Heritage Foundation on this same topic remains, some ten years later, by far the single most viewed lecture in their history.Here is the link to the video of Evan Sayet s viral lecture on How the modern liberal thinks.