Months into his presidency, Donald Trump seems to have finally realized that it was probably not the greatest idea to install a prominent white supremacist media guy on the National Security Council.
According to Bloomberg White House reporter Jennifer Jacobs, The Donald made a few changes to the Council most notably Bannon s removal:NEW: Trump National Security Council reorganization:-removed Bannon-downgraded Bossert-elevated Coats and Dunford-McMaster sets agenda.
Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) April 5, 2017According to the White House, Bannon s role on the council was to look over Gen. Flynn s shoulder a position that is no longer needed especially after Flynn offered to roll over on his former allies in the Trump administration in exchange for immunity from prosecution.
Officials claim Bannon did not attend a single meeting, and that his role is no longer needed now that National Security Advisor H.R.
McMaster is in charge.NEW: Bannon's role on NSC was to look over Gen. Flynn's shoulder, a White House official said.He never went to meeting.
https://t.co/mWsWjw7Qbk Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) April 5, 2017Lest the real story here get lost, it s important for us to realize that the White House just admitted to giving someone they could not trust top-level security clearance and access to our nation s secrets and assigning the white nationalist who used to run Breitbart, which he calls a platform for the alt-right ( alt-right means Nazis), to keep an eye on Flynn s loyalties and actions.The Trump administration says Bannon was also there to de-operationalize the NSC from the Susan Rice era.
He retails his top-level security clearance.In addition to keeping eye on Flynn, Bannon's role on National Security Council was to "de-operationalize" NSC from Susan Rice era, I'm told https://t.co/pCnBb4B06o Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) April 5, 2017NEW: Bannon's national security clearance was NOT stripped, I'm told.
He still has the highest clearance.
Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) April 5, 2017Banner on @DRUDGE_REPORT is false, per White House aides.Steve Bannon still has his security clearance.
pic.twitter.com/NOT7NhEm2T Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) April 5, 2017In other words, Bannon still has access to our nation s secrets, just in a less obvious manner.The Trump administration is looking for ways to put lipstick on a pig in hopes of not being remembered as the worst thing that has ever happened to our country.
Unfortunately for them, they re really bad at this stuff.Featured image via screengrab