Trump s newly-minted Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, is apparently just another liar who s looking out more for himself than he is justice.
As the head of the Department of Justice, he should be the last person who would ever even consider lying under oath.
Yet, lie he did, and now it s coming back to bite him.
Democrats are all over him for it, and Trump s White House was forced to issue a statement on this.The thing is, though, that the Trump administration is wholly incapable of admitting wrongdoing in any way, shape or form.
So their statement says nothing about Sessions lies, and instead, blames one of Trump s old foes: the Democrats themselves.WH blames Sessions story on Democrats trying to damage POTUS after speech to Congress.
pic.twitter.com/pZ5VcMIeEJ Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 2, 2017 This is the latest attack against the Trump Administration by partisan Democrats.
Oh please.
If Sessions had, in fact, met with Russian diplomats in his official capacity as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, then why wouldn t he just say so?
Who lies when they re sure they were well within the law and their rights to do something?Seriously.
Records literally show that Sessions spoke to the Russian ambassador to the U.S. twice during Trump s presidential campaign.
Nobody would lie if they truly believed they were within their legal rights (and the capacity of their job) to speak to anyone, even an enemy.The only conclusion we re left with is that Sessions lied, just like the disgraced General, Michael Flynn, lied.
The White House s statement on this is typical blaming the opposition for everything that goes wrong, including catching people committing perjury.
When was the last time we had an administration lie with such impunity?
Some will say Obama did, but he didn t. Trump s administration started off with lies, and it s continuing under lies.
Sessions must either resign or be indicted, and Trump himself must be impeached.The treason of this administration must stop now.Featured image by Zach Gibson via Getty Images