During the 1950s, there was a Western TV show called Trackdown, starring Robert Culp and while it sounds like something we d make up, one episode featured a con man named Trump, who wanted to get this build a wall to protect the town.The episode, which aired on CBS in 1958, was called End of the World.
Instead of brown people, though, this Trump predicted that there would be a firestorm in a Texas town unless he s allowed to save the day with umbrellas (at a profit) and a wall.
Part of the dialogue sounds like it could have come directly from Donald J. Trump, circa 2016:Narrator: Hoby had checked the town.
The people were ready to believe.
Like sheep they ran to the slaughterhouse.
And waiting for them was the high priest of fraud.Trump: I am the only one.
Trust me.
I can build a wall around your homes that nothing can penetrate.Townperson: What do we do?
How can we save ourselves?Trump: You ask how do you build that wall.
You ask, and I m here to tell you.Source: SF GateHere s the video:Contrast that with Donald J. Trump:During the presidential campaign, Donald Trump declared, Politicians have used you and stolen your votes.
They have given you nothing.
I will give you everything.
I will give you what you ve been looking for for 50 years.
I m the only one.
On June 16, 2015, Trump said, I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I ll build them very inexpensively.
This show had more to offer than just being prescient, though.
Its moral was about not letting fear color our decisions.
It s a lesson Trump voters could have benefited from, if they had heard it and paid attention.
Both Trumps use fear as a currency and both Trumps gain wealth and power capitalizing on people s fear.Much like the character on the show, Donald Trump is a demagogue who rode into town with grand promises and nothing to back them up.
Donald Trump is set to take the office of the presidency as a get even richer scheme.
His voters have been conned.
The American people have been conned.
The media has been conned and we re all screwed.Featured image of Trackdown via video screen shot | Featured image of Donald J. Trump via Spencer Platt/Getty Images