The National Fraternal Order of Police knows exactly what the President-elect s values are and knows it s a massive advantage in its quest to return America to a less progressive time.With full knowledge that Donald Trump does not give a damn about minorities and is in full support of profiling African Americans and Hispanics, the National Fraternal Order of Police has called on Trump to reverse or amend the broad, Bush-era ban on racial profiling.
The ban on racial profiling has been around since 2003, when President George W. Bush created guidelines that prevented federal agents from factoring race or ethnicity in investigations.
Now, the Fraternal Order of Police is acting to reverse that ban, as its website states that racial profiling is a statistical disparity and that the current ban burdens law enforcement agency to somehow prove itself innocent of engaging in the unlawful use of race in its procedures and practices.
The organization also doesn t like that the ban is meant to protect racial and ethnic minorities, which they feel is excluding members of other races.
While the proposed lifting of the ban is absolutely ridiculous, it becomes truly scary when you consider that Trump himself has implied that he is in favor of racial profiling.
It was only a few months ago, in September, when Trump said that police forces needed more leniency when it comes to investigating people based on their race.
Trump said: Our local police they know who a lot of these people are.
They are afraid to do anything about it because they don t want to be accused of profiling.They see somebody that s suspicious, they will profile.
Look what s going on: Do we really have a choice?
We re trying to be so politically correct in our country, and this is only going to get worse.
Apparently, Trump is oblivious to the fact that there have been various studies proving that racial profiling is ineffective and may actually be counterproductive.
Of course, the National Fraternal Order of Police has accurately identified Trump as their guy.
They not only supported him during his campaign, but noted his real commitment to law enforcement.
The organization s president, Chuck Canterbury, said: Mr. Trump, however, has seriously looked at the issues facing law enforcement today.
He understands and supports our priorities and our members believe he will make America safe again.
Featured image via Drew Angerer / Getty Images