Right-wingers everywhere have been trying to disprove overwhelming climate science that shows the earth is warming rapidly.
They seem to believe that if it s cold outside, well, then the earth isn t actually warming.Breitbart news is no different, and they decided to try to use a video from The Weather Channel to disprove climate change and wrote an entire article touting claims that we re not actually warming.
However, The Weather Channel just struck back and responded with their own article titled, Note to Breitbart: Earth Is Not Cooling, Climate Change Is Real and Please Stop Using Our Video to Mislead Americans.
Note to @BreitbartNews: Earth Is Not Cooling, Climate Change Is Real and Stop Using Our Video to Mislead Americans https://t.co/ipP0fD2BEg pic.twitter.com/ypSMJ4eML6 The Weather Channel (@weatherchannel) December 6, 2016 Note to Breitbart: Earth Is Not Cooling, Climate Change Is Real https://t.co/UfjMoFuiRq The Weather Channel (@weatherchannel) December 6, 2016What s actually more horrifying than Breitbart trying to purposefully misinform people is that the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology actually tweeted the Breitbart article, giving it credit where absolutely no credit was due..@BreitbartNews: Global Temperatures Plunge.
Icy Silence from Climate Alarmists https://t.co/uLUPW4o93V Sci,Space,&Tech Cmte (@HouseScience) December 1, 2016The Weather Channel then when through claim by claim made and thoroughly debunked the misinformation, and even said: Here s the thing, science doesn t care about your opinion.
Cherrypicking and changing the facts will not change the future, nor the fact, note fact, not opinion, the earth is warming.
Here are the debunked claims:CLAIM: Global land temperatures have plummeted by one degree Celsius since the middle of this year the biggest and steepest fall on record.
TRUTH: This number comes from one satellite-based estimate of temperatures above land areas in the lower atmosphere.
Data from the other two groups that regularly publish satellite-based temperature estimates show smaller drops, more typical of the decline one would expect after a strong El Ni o event.Temperatures over land give an incomplete picture of global-scale temperature.
Most of the planet about 70 percent is covered by water, and the land surface warms and cools more quickly than the ocean.
Land-plus-ocean data from the other two satellite groups, released after the Breitbart article, show that Earth s lower atmosphere actually set a record high in November 2016.CLAIM: It can be argued that without the El Ni o (and the so-called Pacific Blob ) 2014-2016 would not have been record warm years.
(David Whitehouse, Global Warming Policy Foundation, quoted by Breitbart)TRUTH: NOAA data show that the 2014-16 El Ni o did not even begin until October 2014.
It was a borderline event until mid-2015, barely above the El Ni o threshold.
El Ni o clearly added to the strength of the record global warmth observed since late 2015.
However, if the El Ni o spike is removed, 2016 is still the warmest year on record and 2015 the second warmest, according to climate scientist Zeke Hausfather (Berkeley Earth).CLAIM: Many think that 2017 will be cooler than previous years.
Myles Allen of Oxford University says that by the time of the next big United Nations climate conference, global temperatures are likely to be no warmer than the Paris COP in 2015.
This would be a strange thing to happen if, as some climate scientists have claimed, recent years would have been a record even without the El Ni o.
(David Rose, U.K. Daily Mail, quoted by Breitbart)TRUTH: There is nothing unusual about a drop in global surface temperatures when going from El Ni o to La Nina.
These ups and downs occur on top of the long-term warming trend that remains when the El Ni o and La Ni a signals are removed.
If there were no long-term trend, then we would see global record lows occurring during the strongest La Ni a events.
However, the last year to see global temperatures hit a record low was 1911, and the most recent year that fell below the 20th-century average was 1976.Watch the full video and breakdown from The Weather Channel HERE.As horrible as all of this is, it s actually kind of hilarious that The Weather Channel so thoroughly threw Breitbart under the bus.
They deserve to be condemned and the fact remains that Climate Change is absolutely real and we need to start doing more to combat it.Featured image via The Weather Channel screen capture