Earlier today, Hillary Clinton weighed in on the horrific, tragic shootings of two black men in Louisiana and Minnesota as well as several police officers in Dallas, Texas, all which happened within the last few days.
What the former Secretary of State had to say is something we all need to hear.In an interview with CNN, Wolf Blitzer brought up a comment made by the governor of Minnesota, in which he said that police brutality victim Philando Castile would still be alive if he d been white.
Blitzer asked Clinton if she agreed, and why she thinks she could be a more unifying presidential candidate and heal race relations better than rival Donald Trump.
The answer to that question was obvious, but her response was nothing short of powerful.Acknowledging white privilege and the fact that racism is still very much alive in America today, Clinton promised that she will call for white people like myself to put ourselves in the shoes of black families who fear every time their children go somewhere; who have to have the talk about how to really protect themselves when they re the ones who should be expecting protection from encounters with the police.
She also said that white people should start listening to legitimate cries of the black community.
She said: Too many African-Americans have been killed in encounters with police over matters that should not have led to that action being taken.
Clinton also said that the recent shootings should worry every single American and vowed to continue working for change so that no more innocent black lives are lost.
This is the kind of call to action, and as president, I would implement the very comprehensive set of proposals that I ve been making for more than a year.
We must do more to have national guidelines about the use of force by police, especially deadly force.
You can listen to Clinton s powerful statement below.THIS is how you call out white privilege, police brutality, racially-motivated violence and show your support for the Black Lives Matter movement.
Donald Trump, on the other hand, had something far more disappointing to say as expected.Featured image via Flickr