During his radio show on Friday, Rush Limbaugh suggested that legalizing rape would be easy as long as you frame it as a civil rights issue like same-sex marriage and transgender protections.
The media is not covering this transgender thing the way normal people, or sane people like myself, a caller told Limbaugh before launching into the myth of predators using transgender protections as a shield to sexually assault women and children in bathrooms.
I don t have any daughters, but I have nieces, I have teenage nieces, I have older nieces, I have a wife.
This is a safety issue, this is about a predator, like the story you just read, going into these bathrooms and taking advantage of it.
And it s happening, but they re not covering it.
And it s really interesting how they took gun control and turned it into gun safety, but they re not treating this as a safety issue.
And the sick mind of Limbaugh immediately thought of rape and how to legalize it.
No, that s actually a good point.
Civil rights you could legalize rape if you called it the Civil Rights Act of 2016.
Limbaugh continued, however, by whining about how much civil rights have been extended over the last few decades, especially lamenting that it now covers race, gender, and sexual orientation because he apparently believes only white straight men deserve civil rights.
He also claimed it was only a joke.
So they always attach people, the reading public, the news consuming public, has been conditioned to attach the words civil rights to race.
Now it s being expanded.
Civil rights, gay marriage; civil rights, transgender bathroom rights; civil rights, whatever the left wants.
Except over here, rape has become a safety issue.
But over here this stuff is a civil rights if, when you hear the left equate anything with civil rights, what you should learn is this is how they are attempting to corrupt the culture.
And they re doing it under the banner of civil rights, which is supposed to shut you up.
It is supposed to silence opposition, because nobody with a brain is ever supposed to violate civil rights.
Never, anybody with a brain would know never to oppose anything that says civil rights attached to it.
Which is why the joke, you could legalize whatever you want by calling it the Civil Rights Act of 2016, because nobody would have the guts to vote against it.
Because if they did you d have the media, Democrats running around, saying so-and-so voted against the Civil Rights Act of 2016 denying all of our citizens equal rights, blah blah blah blah blah.
Here s the audio via Media Matters.In his effort to slander Democrats, Limbaugh also claimed that rape has become a safety issue for conservatives.
First of all, Limbaugh seems to be admitting that conservatives never cared about rape before.
And second, if conservatives really believe rape is a safety issue, perhaps they should stop aiding and rewarding rapists by not forcing rape victims to carry rape pregnancies to term.
Furthermore, they can repeal laws that allow rapists to seek custody and visitation rights.
Or how about believing women when they say they were raped instead of saying they were asking for it.The fact is that there have been zero instances of a transgender person doing anything but using the restroom like a normal person.
They certainly haven t sexually assaulted anyone.
And that s throughout the 17 states and over 200 cities that have transgender protection in place.
In fact, the only men who have gone into a restroom to scare women and children are the ones being purposely sent in there by the Family Research Council, a right-wing group trying to instill fear of transgender people by pretending there is a problem with them using the bathroom that corresponds to their gender identity.But get ready, folks.
It won t be long before a conservative lawmaker takes Limbaugh seriously like usual and literally writes a bill to legalize rape by excusing it as a civil rights issue.
And the way Republicans have treated rape victims over the years, you know they are considering it.Featured image via screenshot