Remember the report that came out after Hillary left her position as Secretary of State?
There was missing money $6 billion couldn t be accounted for.
How does $6 billion just vanish?
It seems like this is the usual thing with the Clintons.
The Clinton Global Foundation also was missing money.
Yes, a whopping $17 million went missing!
I think we have a couple of Arkansas Grifters on our hands Since Bill and Hillary Clinton left the White House in 2001, they have earned more than $230 million.
But in federal filings the Clintons claim they are worth somewhere between $11 million and $53 million.
After layering years of disclosures on top of annual tax returns, Forbes estimates their combined net worth at $45 million.
Where did all of the money go?
No one seems to know, and the Clintons aren t offering any answers.From 2001 to 2014 the power couple spent $95 million on taxes.
Hillary s 2008 presidential run cost her $13 million.
Their two homes cost a combined $5 million, and the Clintons have given away $22 million to charity.
All of this is according to FEC filings, property records and years of tax returns.
Add it up and you get $135 million.
If the Clintons made $230 million, spent $135 million and have just $45 million left over, what happened to the other $50 million?
That s kind of strange, says Joe Biden s accountant, Walter Deyhle.
You have to report all of your assets.
You have to report assets that are owned by your spouse.
It seems unlikely that the Clintons could have spent all of it.
Over 14 years $50 million averages out to $3.6 million in extra expenses per year, or $9,800 per day.
Read the rest:Forbes explores some possible explanations for the missing money but dares not touch on one likely possibility that when you re running a criminal enterprise the size and scope of the Clinton Foundation, there are many, many people whose silence must be bought, and such folks don t come cheap.It s also possible that Bill s sexual shenanigans have resulted in out-of-court settlements in exchange for confidentiality agreements.And of course, political influence can be a two way street.
While we assume that foreign entities have paid vast sums to the Clintons in exchange for favors, the Clintons themselves may have had to shell out money in exchange for access.
Read more: Blur Brain