A Muslim high school student in Rancho Cucamonga, California, received an apology from officials at her school after she was misidentified as Isis Phillips in her yearbook.
The Council on American-Islamic Relations is slamming the school, is calling for an investigation of the incident, and plans to send a legal team to meet with the school district.The incident fits in with a pattern of recent events in America.Bayan Zehlif, a junior at Los Osos, was photographed for the yearbook wearing a hijab.
She posted the photo from the yearbook with the incorrect caption on Facebook and Twitter, according to the Los Angeles Times.
I am extremely saddened, disgusted, hurt and embarrassed that the Los Osos High School yearbook was able to get away with this, Zehlif wrote on Facebook.
Apparently, I am Isis in the yearbook.
The school reached out to me and had the audacity to say that this was a typo.
I beg to differ, let s be real.
One of her fellow students told the NY Daily News that Zehlif was overreacting, and that it was simply an innocent mistake.
But it is quite a coincidence for that name to be attached to a Muslim student.In recent years conservatives have led efforts to attack Muslims across America, to the point where leading officials like President Obama have had to intervene to make it clear that Muslims have and will continue to be part of the fabric of America.In a similar case, a Muslim student who made a clock and brought it to school was accused of making a bomb.
President Obama invited him to the White House, pointing out that children should be encouraged to be interested in fields like engineering, not demonized.At the same time, presumptive Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has opposed allowing Syrian war refugees into the United States, and favors a ban on Muslim immigration to the country a proposal supported by a majority of Republican voters.Recent attacks on immigrants have also traced their inspiration to speeches and comments from Trump, including high school students who yelled racial epithets at Latino students.
That is the sort of atmosphere Bayan Zehlif is growing up in, so it might be hard for her to believe this ISIS incident was just a mistake.Featured image via Flickr