Donald Trump s Tuesday meeting with The New York Times was already controversial to begin with, and it ended in a similar fashion.
Not only has the newspaper been a target of Trump s Twitter attacks after reporting true (but negative) coverage on him, but Trump abruptly canceled his meeting without notifying the paper, only to follow through at the last minute.But even after the meeting had happened, it wasn t the end of the volatile emotions surrounding Trump s visit.
Upon exiting the meeting and walking through the main lobby of The New York Times building, Trump was met with loud boos from the crowd that tried to cover up the cheers.
In the footage below, Trump can be seen walking through the lobby and waving to the crowd, who had very mixed reactions to the President-elect.
Reporters were busy shouting questions to Trump, but the crowd drowned them out.CBS News tried to ignore the negative reaction as it tweeted: Donald Trump is greeted with cheers as he leaves meeting with the New York Times.
However, the video clip accompanying that caption tells a different story.
At the end of the video, the CBSN anchor corrected himself and said, Alright, so a mix of cheers, and some boos, I think.
UPDATE: Donald Trump is greeted with cheers as he leaves meeting with the New York Times https://t.co/31saOhI0wR pic.twitter.com/tvAp4HPUyq CBS News (@CBSNews) November 22, 2016This is yet another first for America it has been unheard of for both a President-elect and Vice President-elect to be booed in public appearances and within days of each other!
It s clear that Trump and Pence are the most controversial, divisive team the country has ever been faced with, and their level of disapproval is unprecedented.The media should certainly be latching onto this, instead of pretending that people are only cheering for Trump.
To suggest that the American people are ready to accept Trump and Pence is dishonest.
These videos show a nation that is divided and upset with this election, and the media should portray the truth of it regardless of whether Trump throws a Twitter fit or not.Trump leaves the Times pic.twitter.com/KU1pTaUjXt Michael Calderone (@mlcalderone) November 22, 2016Video: A mix of cheers, boos, and shouted questions as Trump leaves the NYT building https://t.co/23RicNJIWz Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) November 22, 2016Featured image via screenshot