President Trump just exposed one of the biggest obstructionists to making America great again Senator Bob Corker asked for an endorsement from Trump but Trump just tweeted out that he refused to endorse Corker.
Corker has threatened to obstruct and be a thorn in the side of Trump because he has nothing to lose now that he s not running for reelection.
What that tells us is this man was NEVER a true Republican!
He s a RINO!
DRAIN THE SWAMP!PROOF BELOW THAT WHAT TRUMP SAID IS TRUE:CORKER THREATENS TO HALT PROGRESS ON TAX REFORM Corker announced in September that he will retire after his term expires in 2018.
Sen. Corker announced his departure from the Senate one day after Breitbart News reported on his $3 million swamp deal and just hours after conservative Judge Roy Moore beat establishment candidate Sen. Luther Strange (R-AL) in a Senate runoff election.Now, Sen. Corker threatens to halt any progress that Republicans have made with tax reform, similarly to how Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) tanked Obamacare repeal twice this year.
Patty McMurray Corker said at the hearing, This is some of the most meaningless work that we do here.
The Tennesseean argued that the 2018 budget amounts to nothing more than a vehicle for Republicans to pass a tax reform package.Republicans hope to use budgetary reconciliation to attach a tax reform proposal to the 2018 budget that will allow the Senate to pass the tax reform legislation using a simple majority.
GOP lawmakers tried to repeal and replace Obamacare using the same strategy.The current tax plan proposal introduced by Republicans would include $4 trillion in tax cuts.
Republicans hope to cut roughly $2.5 trillion in missing revenue by closing loopholes and eliminating deductions to hit the maximum $1.5 trillion deficit allowed for Congress s budget rules.President Donald Trump said that the tax reform plan will be rocket fuel for our economy.
Read more: BreitbartHere is the article that verifies what Trump said is true about the cabinet post:Sen. Bob Corker emerged from an interview Tuesday with Donald Trump and said he believed the president-elect had narrowed the list of candidates for secretary of state to a very small group.
The selection process for who will run the State Department in the Trump administration has been grueling, including grumbling among Mr. Trump s allies about his considering bitter foe Mitt Romney for the nomination.
Mr. Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, described this moment as the greatest opportunity in modern times to really strengthen our nation s security interests around the world and help us economically.
He said that he was honored to be considered for the job.
It s been an honor to have the kind of meeting that I had today.
We had a very wide-ranging meeting, actually a couple meetings and his instincts on foreign policy are obviously very, very good, Mr. Corker told reporters at Trump Tower, where Mr. Trump lives and the transition team offices are located.
I know he has a number of outstanding individuals that he s talking with.
I was glad to be here and glad to see more fully some of what his views about the world are, he said.
Pressed about when he expected Mr. Trump to announce the nomination, Mr. Corker said they didn t talk about that in the meeting.
I think he ll make the decision when he s comfortable.
My sense is he s narrowed it down to a very small group of people, he said.
The president-elect is scheduled to meet later Tuesday with Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential nominee who harshly criticized Mr. Trump s during the campaign and worked to prevent him from winning the nomination and the White House.
Other candidates for secretary of state include retired Army Gen. David Petraeus, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton.
LOAD COMMENTS (10) READ MORE: WT