Republican front runner Donald Trump makes himself easy to hate.
If he doesn t turn people off with his lack of policies, inexperience and complete lack of knowledge about how the world works, he ll steer Americans away with his racism, bigotry, misogyny and vulgar rhetoric.
Most of the Republican party wants nothing to do with him, and Trump has been repeatedly called out by Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders.
Even President Barack Obama can t help but speak against the candidate.
Now, Vice President Joe Biden has joined the conversation, stating that listening to Trump makes him sad.
In an interview published on Wednesday, Billboard asked Biden how he felt about Trump by posing the question, Do you ever hear Donald Trump speak and think, Boy, I would love to debate that guy ?
Biden replied: When I listen to some of the stuff Donald Trump says it just makes me sad.
It s never, never been wise to try and appeal to the darker side of human nature.
Abraham Lincoln was right it s about appealing to our better angels.
That s who Americans are and that s what they want.
Billboard s interview with the Vice President was focused around his legacy of ending violence against women and sexual assaults on school campuses around the country.
Biden, who (along with Obama) has been heavily involved in initiatives to bring awareness around this cause (such as the launch of the It s On Us campaign in 2014), and said he found it disconcerting to see Trump encouraging his supporters to be aggressive.
Of Trump s habit of egging violent behavior on, Biden said: It not only undermines the work that President Obama and I have done it undermines the work a majority of Republicans and Democrats have done.
It is the antithesis of everything this country is about.
Biden s remarks on violence against women couldn t be better timed, as Trump s supporters have just made headlines for groping and pepper spraying a 15-year-old girl at a rally in Wisconsin.
Trump s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was also arrested yesterday for physically assaulting a female reporter.
They re obviously learning from the best Trump has made endless misogynistic attacks on women, and basically every minority in America.Biden has made his disapproval of Donald Trump known many times before.
Last month, during an official visit to Mexico, Biden said that he almost felt obliged to apologize for Trump s anti-immigrant rhetoric, in which the front runner called immigrants rapists and drug dealers.
At the American Israel Public Affairs Committee s policy conference earlier this month, Biden also took on Trump s anti-Israel comments and slammed the business mogul for targeting religious groups and minorities.
He said: It is incumbent on all of us to stand up to those who would peddle in pernicious stereotypes, who seek to scare and divide us.
The future belongs to the bridge builders, not the wall builders.
Featured image via Getty Images / Drew Angerer