Sean Hannity openly supports Donald Trump for president and has turned his media platform into the Republican nominee s propaganda machine.Indeed, Hannity is Trump s chief propagandist and there is no low that he won t sink to in order to attack Hillary Clinton and defend Trump.Of course, Hannity denies that he s a propagandist, but if anyone knows what a propagandist looks like, it s the CIA and former CIA Director Michael Hayden says Hannity is a true propagandist.
After years of bashing Wikileaks and the group s founder Julian Assange, Hannity has just recently began praising them because they are releasing private emails from Hillary Clinton s campaign team.Wikileaks obtained these emails by illegally hacking servers in the United States, which constitutes foreign espionage against this country.
But Sean Hannity is cheering them on anyway in what amounts to endorsing crimes against the United States.And Hayden ripped Hannity and Fox News a new one for doing so in a response to Brookings Institute senior fellow Benjamin Wittes.
FOXNews has almost completely jumped the shark, Hayden wrote.
They have given up any semblance of conservatism and focused on an almost visceral hatred of all things Clinton and Obama.
Hannity has entered the pantheon of a true propagandist.
And his behavior reminds me of a conversation I had with a political office in the mid-1980s when I was the air attach to Bulgaria.
I asked this officer what truth was to him.
He responded without hesitation, Truth is what serves the party.
And there you have it.
Former CIA and NSA Director Mike Hayden responds to @seanhannity s endorsement of foreign espionage against the US.
pic.twitter.com/HwbNJjKmDB Benjamin Wittes (@benjaminwittes) October 23, 2016Bulgaria was part of the Eastern Bloc in the 1980s ruled by the Bulgarian Communist Party and an ally of the Soviet Union.So Hannity is following in the footsteps of communist propagandists, which tells you just how dangerous conservatives have become in recent years.Featured Image: Screenshot