Donald Trump Jr. may have been born with a silver spoon in his mouth, but he seems to be lacking the superior genes his father claims as a birthright.
On Tuesday morning, while in the middle of being a focus of the scandal that will rock his father s administration, he tweeted the email chain that very literally implicates him in colluding with the Russians.
Yes, it s that bad.The chain was from June 6, 2016, and it was about setting up the meeting between Trump Jr, Paul Manafort (Trump s campaign manager at the time) and Jared Kushner.Here s my statement and the full email chain pic.twitter.com/x050r5n5LQ Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017The smoking gun came in this one:Here is page 4 (which did not post due to space constraints).
pic.twitter.com/z1Xi4nr2gq Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 11, 2017Twitter users were stunned, especially over this part, which explicitly states that Trump Jr. attended the meeting with the intention of getting dirt on Clinton, which he said he would love.
The documents would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia and would be very useful to your father, read the email, written by a trusted intermediary, who added, This is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government s support for Mr. Trump.
If the future president s elder son was surprised or disturbed by the provenance of the promised material or the notion that it was part of an ongoing effort by the Russian government to aid his father s campaign he gave no indication.He replied within minutes: If it s what you say I love it especially later in the summer.
Source: NY TimesSo I think this is the part people will focus on as showing knowledge he was getting something of value from foreign source pic.twitter.com/b566VDVgkP Rick Hasen (@rickhasen) July 11, 2017and this about the thing of value itself pic.twitter.com/Pm8kEMp24U Rick Hasen (@rickhasen) July 11, 2017And as to proving solicitation or coordination under campaign laws, Trump Jr. says If it s what you say I love it pic.twitter.com/HVMLsYzDLB Rick Hasen (@rickhasen) July 11, 2017You lied about the meeting twice.
Why are we supposed to believe you now?
Like every other Trump, you re a fraud.
pic.twitter.com/QYyIHmnkWR Josh S nchez (@jnsanchez) July 11, 2017Donald Junior doesn t realize how incriminating this is?
Merrill Lynch (@MerrillLynched) July 11, 2017 I love the poorly educated!
pic.twitter.com/P0aiGIWHkn Cor10ee (@cor10ee) July 11, 2017A prison romper to match Daddy s!
pic.twitter.com/EsoHCZUasS Mike Denison (@mikd33) July 11, 2017The only explanation for this apparent suicide tactic is to get out ahead of a New York Times story.
They already had the emails.Trump Senior has been trying to distance himself from his son since the story broke on Monday, but as the New York Times notes, the meeting took place just three floors below his office.
Even if Trump argues that Jr. and Kushner weren t officially part of his campaign, he can t make that claim about Manafort.This is serious stuff.
Trump Jr. asked to see the information (solicitation), and such information would be considered to be a thing of value.
It s both illegal to solicit and it s illegal for a campaign to accept a things of value from foreign entity, and it s hard to dispute that such dirt on an opponent wouldn t be a thing of value.A foreign national shall not, directly or indirectly, make a contribution or a donation of money or other thing of value, or expressly or impliedly promise to make a contribution or a donation, in connection with any Federal, State, or local election.This won t be the final shoe to drop, though.
Rep. Adam Schiff (D-California) says that the Congressional intel committee has a lot more damaging information than the public knows.
Thankfully, though, the Trump family keeps inching so much closer to hanging themselves.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images