Add comedian Louis C.K.
to the ever-growing lost of people trying to stop Republican front-runner Donald Trump from getting any closer to the White House.
In a scathing rant released on Saturday morning, C.K.
skewered Trump with a plea to voters in an email about his web series Horace and Pete.
C.K.
compared Trump to Adolf Hitler, stating that the Nazi leader was once thought to be just a harmless crazy nut until it was too late to stop him.
C.K.
s message, which appeared in full on Variety, said: Please stop it with voting for Trump.
It was funny for a little while.
But the guy is Hitler.
And by that I mean that we are being Germany in the 30s.
Do you think they saw the s t coming?
Hitler was just some hilarious and refreshing dude with a weird comb over who would say anything at all.
Twitter He s not a monster.
He s a sad man.
But all this makes him horribly dangerous if he becomes president.
Give him another TV show.
Let him pay to put his name on buildings.
But please stop voting for him.
C.K.
didn t mince his words as he continued, stating that voting for Trump would be national suicide.
I get that all these people sound like bullshit soft criminal opportunists.
The whole game feels rigged and it s not going anywhere but down anymore.
I feel that way sometimes.
And that voting for Trump is a way of saying f*ck it.
F*ck them all .
I really get it.
It s a version of national Suicide.
Or it s like a big hit off of a crack pipe.
Somehow we can t help it.
Or we know that if we vote for Trump our phones will be a reliable source of dopamine for the next four years.
I mean I can t wait to read about Trump every day.
It s a rush.
But you have to know this is not healthy.
C.K.
noted that although he likes the Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, he would enjoy seeing the next president as a conservative.
However, he s smart enough to recognize that Trump is not the guy to face Sanders or Clinton, and certainly not presidential material: I m not advocating for Hillary or Bernie.
I like them both but frankly I wish the next president was a conservative only because we had Obama for eight years and we need balance.
And not because I particularly enjoy the conservative agenda.
I just think the government should reflect the people.
And we are about 40 percent conservative and 40 percent liberal.
When I was growing up and when I was a younger man, liberals and conservatives were friends with differences.
They weren t enemies.
And it always made sense that everyone gets a president they like for a while and then hates the president for a while.
But it only works if the conservatives put up a good candidate.
A good smart conservative to face the liberal candidate so they can have a good argument and the country can decide which way to go this time.
Trump is not that.
He s an insane bigot.
He is dangerous.
For all the conservatives that have pledged to vote for Trump despite how awful they acknowledge him to be, C.K.
had some much-needed advice: If you are a true conservative.
Don t vote for Trump.
He is not one of you.
He is one of him.
Everything you have heard him say that you liked, if you look hard enough you will see that he one day said the exact opposite.
He is playing you.
Trump is not your best.
He s the worst of all of us.
He s a symptom to a problem that is very real.
But don t vote for your own cancer.
You re better than that.
C.K.
is just the latest comedian to blast Trump, and his message follows an epic verbal lashing from John Oliver on Last Week Tonight, which aired a 20-minute takedown of Trump.
Many other celebrities, including Miley Cyrus, George Clooney, and Stephen King, have also urged voters to wise up and forget about voting for the business mogul.Currently, the Republican party is scrambling to figure out what to do with Trump.
He s currently dominating the GOP polls, and even though several conservatives have pledged to stop him, many Republicans feel helpless and are afraid no other candidate will be able to stop him from getting the nomination.Featured image via Wikimedia Commons and Gage Skidmore