Donald Trump just lost another one of his propagandists thanks to Fox News.Last week, Andrew Napolitano opened his big mouth and threw gasoline on a raging fire by claiming that President Obama enlisted British Intelligence agency GCHQ to wiretap Trump.Napolitano s desperate claim came after Trump and his team repeatedly were unable to produce any evidence that President Obama ordered such a wiretap.Rather than vet the claim, White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer repeated it to the press and a firestorm ensued as GCHQ issued a rare statement refuting the accusation.
Thus, Napolitano helped create an international incident between the United States and one of our oldest allies.But when asked about the accusation during a press conference, Trump threw Fox News under the bus by blaming them directly instead of taking personal responsibility for repeating an accusation made by a pundit.
We said nothing, Trump said.
All we did was quote a certain very talented legal mind who was the one responsible for saying that on television.
That was a statement made by a very talented lawyer on Fox.
So you shouldn t be talking to me, you should be talking to Fox.
Fox News immediately scrambled to refute Napolitano.
Fox News cannot confirm Judge Napolitano s commentary, Fox anchor Shep Smith said.
Fox News knows of no evidence of any kind that the now-President of the United States was surveilled at any time in any way.
Full stop.
Fox anchor Bret Baier soon followed.
We love the judge, we love him here at Fox, but the Fox News division was never able to back up those claims and was never reported on this show, Baier said.And now that FBI Director James Comey has put the nail in the coffin of Trump s wiretapping accusation, Fox News has moved to punish Napolitano.According to the Los Angeles Times, Fox News has removed Napolitano from their programming indefinitely.
People familiar with the situation who could speak only on the condition of anonymity said Napolitano is not expected to be on Fox News Channel any time in the near future, the Times reported.Indeed, it appears that Napolitano really has been yanked off the air.
After all, Monday has been a heavy legal news day considering Trump is being investigated by the FBI and Neil Gorsuch is being grilled on Capitol Hill.
It s heaven for legal analysts but Napolitano didn t provide any analysis for Fox News.
That s because instead of being an objective analyst, Napolitano chose to support Trump by tossing out unverified claims even though he damn well knew that Trump s accusation was a lie in the first place.Napolitano s credibility is now in shambles just like Trump s. The only difference is that while Napolitano has been removed from his job, Trump continues to remain in the White House.Featured image via screenshot