Way to go Granny!
Perfect timing for your announcement with the discovery of the Planned Parenthood s aborted baby parts business in the headlines Yesterday, Hilary Clinton defending late-term abortion on Twitter and called Wisconsin s abortion ban dangerous and unacceptable.As LifeNews previously reported, on July 19th, pro-life Governor Scott Walker signed the Pain Capable Unborn Protection Act, making Wisconsin the 15th state to ban abortions after 20-weeks of pregnancy.
Prior to signing the bill, he said, At five months an unborn child can feel pain.
As a society we should be protecting that child.
But Hillary Clinton has a vastly different view:Gov.
Walker signed dangerous abortion restrictions into law in WI without exceptions for rape or incest.
Extreme and unacceptable.
-H Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 21, 2015 Governor Walker responded with his own rejoinder calling Clinton out of touch: Hillary shows she s out of touch with the majority of Americans who believe babies at 5 months deserve life.
-SW https://t.co/5NG0llQRbd Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) July 21, 2015 Unfortunately, if Hillary Clinton becomes our next president she will further abortion-on-demand in America even though she once said she believes abortion should be rare.
Bill Donohue from the Catholic League responded to her remarks and highlighted her radical abortion agenda.He said, We know that Hillary lied when she said she wants abortions to be rare.
To be exact, she opposed the ban on partial-birth abortions: if she is okay with killing a baby who is 80 percent born, there are no instances left for her to register an objection.
Now we know that Hillary lied when she said she wants to keep abortions safe.
As soon as Walker signed the law protecting unborn babies from feeling pain, Hillary labeled his decision dangerous.
He added that Hillary should explain what she means when she says that this ban is dangerous, considering the fact that some of these babies feel immense pain while being dismembered.
Donohue concluded, Hillary needs to elaborate on this.
Why is it not uncomfortable forget about dangerous for a sensate human being to be pierced with a surgical knife?
Why, for example, do these babies put their fingers up to the knife in an attempt to shield them from more pain?
The public has a right to know what s going on in her mind.
In May, Clinton joined President Obama in opposing the federal 20-week ban and said the following through a spokesperson: Politicians should not interfere with personal medical decisions, which should be left to a woman, her family and her faith, in consultation with her doctor or health care provider.
She added, This bill is a direct challenge to Roe v. Wade, which has protected a woman s constitutional right to privacy for over forty years.
The bill puts women s health and rights at risk, undermines the role doctors play in health care decisions, burdens survivors of sexual assault, and is not based on sound science.
However, the science behind fetal pain is solid, which is why so many states in the U.S. have worked to end late abortion.
Unborn children have the biological equipment necessary to feel pain no later than 20 weeks after fertilization, and nerves link receptors to the brain s thalamus and sub-cortical plate around that same time.
Researchers also found that unborn children react to pain by recoiling, which is the same way adult humans react to pain.
In fact, during surgery on these little humans, fetal surgeons found that anesthesia was necessary to decrease their reaction to stress hormones.Via: LifeNews