This is the dumbest and biggest crime in the history of American politics.
There's not even a close second.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017It turns out little Jared was wrong.
The Donald Trump Jr.-Russian collusion story is not only another nothing burger, it lends more credibility to the theory that the media is on an all-out witch hunt for President Donald Trump.
Apparently, the hunt has now been extended to include members of the Trump family.Yates Sexton started his rant on Twitter by whining to his followers about chasing the story for a year, and how he got Trumped by Don Jr. when, much like his father, Jr. went around the media and took to Twitter to post the emails journalists were desperate to get their hands on.I chased this story for a year and he just tweeted it out.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017Whining journalist part 2:Like.
I spent hours and days and weeks and months.
And his son just, hit tweet.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017More whining:I tracked down sources.
Followed so many dead leads.
Labored over this.
And then, he just, you know, tweeted out the proof.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017Still more whining:Like, so many people out there were trying to track this down.
And it just got delivered on a tweet.
What the hell.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017And you guessed it more whining!It's just so bizarre.
As an independent journalist you work crazy hard hoping something will fall into your lap and he tweeted it?
2/ Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017And then, the fake relief over the release of the nothing burger emails by none other than Donald Trump Jr. himself:For the record, I'm beside myself in relief that this stuff is out there it's just my god.
I cannot believe this.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017Yates Sexton then turned his ire on Trump supporters who apparently are (gasp!)
laughing at the rabid leftist media who won t let the fake Trump-Russian collusion narrative go:The son of the president just released the smoking gun and the people are laughing about it on the news.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017Poor Jared he s, well, he appears to be baffled by the Trump s and how they don t follow the rules that have been put forth by the media:This is the most baffling day in a long, long stretch of baffling days.
Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017And finally, in an appeal to his leftist fans who are surely as heartbroken as him, Yates Sexton suggests that if his followers like his style of dead-end reporting, perhaps they would enjoy paying $22.69 for his book.
And now for the final test Will love Trump hate?
Will liberals feel help poor little Jared feel better about wasting over a year of his life, while he chased his tail, pinning all of his hopes on being the one who finally found the Trump-Russia connection.If you do want to read my reporting, however, here's my book that's out in September.https://t.co/02qE5K9PFv Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) July 11, 2017