Remember when Trump said that we were done with NAFTA, and rumors swirled that he was drafting an executive order withdrawing us from the agreement?
And remember how he softened that position very quickly?
It seems that he wasn t the one to reach out to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on that, nor did Trudeau call him of his own accord.White House officials reached out to him behind Trump s back.Why?
Because they were concerned that Trump would unilaterally yank us out of it, hurting multiple sectors of our economy and doing zero favors for Canada and Mexico as well.
So, according to Canada s National Post newspaper, they contacted Trudeau themselves: The unconventional diplomatic manoeuvre approaching the head of a foreign government to influence your own boss proved decisive, as Trump thereafter abandoned his threat to pull out of NAFTA unilaterally, citing the arguments made by Trudeau and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto as pivotal.
Trump, in a childish tantrum, slapped a 20 percent tariff on imports of softwood lumber from Canada, claiming that our agreement with them over that was unfair.
He wholly neglected other parts of our trade relationship with Canada, including the fact that they import a lot more dairy from us than they export to us.In other words, if Trump would actually take a look at how things are working, he might find that things aren t quite as unfair to us as he makes them out to be with his tantrums.Trump has also threatened to levy massive taxes on products imported from Rexnord a company that just closed its Indiana plant and laid off more than 300 workers as punishment for sending its jobs to Mexico:Rexnord of Indiana made a deal during the Obama Administration to move to Mexico.
Fired their employees.
Tax product big that s sold in U.S. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2017As the National Post put it, this incident highlights the following issue with Trump: But the incident highlights the difficulties faced by governments all over the world when it comes to dealing with a president as volatile as Trump.
Trump has no business being the leader of the free world.Featured image by Ron Sachs-Pool via Getty Images