News broke on Thursday that Donald Trump had actually taken his President s Daily Briefing two days in a row.
How in the hell did this end up being news?
The answer is simple: because the man we have chosen to run this country is too stupid to know just how stupid he is.
He s so stupid he thinks he s too smart to get intel briefings.Trump has come under fire for refusing to get his daily intelligence briefings.
His defense is that he s a really smart guy and the PDB is like, boring and stuff.
So he d just rather not.
Besides, that s what Mike Pence is for, right?
I don t have to be told you know, I m, like, a smart person.
I don t have to be told the same thing in the same words every single day, Trump told Fox News.
I don t need to be told the same thing every day, every morning same words.
Sir, nothing has changed.
Let s go over it again.
I don t need that.
So now, this is where we find ourselves.
When Trump actually does his job for a mere two days, it s news.
Two freaking days..@realDonaldTrump received daily intelligence briefing today, his spokesman says, making it the second day in a row he s received PDB.
Jeff Zeleny (@jeffzeleny) December 22, 2016Trump receiving president daily briefing today in Florida, for the second day in a row.
Ben Siegel (@benyc) December 22, 2016The fact that it is news when the commander-in-chief gets two days of intelligence briefings back to back should terrify every person in this country.
It also highlights exactly how Trump has managed to send our foreign relations, particularly with China, into a nosedive before he even gets inaugurated.If he had been interested in his intelligence briefings, maybe he would have known better than to chat up the president of Taiwan.
If he had gotten his PDB before going off half-cocked on Twitter to rant about China seizing our drone, he would have known that the crisis had already been resolved.But for now, Trump has had two days of intel briefings in a row and since that is a first for this narcissistic moron, it s news.
Sad.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images