North Korea just made it abundantly clear that they have no intention of backing down from Trump, and that Trump, for all his dick-swinging, does not scare them.
In fact, according to the U.K. s Mirror, North Korea just let loose with a blistering warning to Trump over his posturing: Our toughest counteraction against the US and its vassal forces will be taken in such a merciless manner as not to allow the aggressors to survive.We ve got a powerful nuclear deterrent already in our hands and we certainly will not keep our arms crossed in the face of a US pre-emptive strike.
Their vice foreign minister also added this: Whatever comes from the US, we will cope with it.
We are fully prepared.
The army and people will courageously counter those who encroach upon our dignity and sovereignty and will always mercilessly ravage all provocative options of the US.
They ve also flat-out said, We will go to war if they choose, clearly putting the ball in our court as to whether or not war happens.Trump reportedly threatened to hit North Korea with Tomahawks the same missiles we launched into Syria to destroy absolutely nothing if they go ahead with a nuclear test this weekend.
But that s not all we also recently test-dropped an inert nuclear bomb to ensure that our military planes can carry and deliver it.There s a slim chance we could decide to use that on North Korea.It s not that North Korea isn t a problem.
It s that this military show is having the opposite effect of what Trump no doubt thinks should be happening, despite North Korea being a very aggressive regime.
And there will be collateral damage if we launch a pre-emptive strike at North Korea.
They ll hit our bases in South Korea, but they may also retaliate directly against our allies in the region, including Japan.If it s nuclear war, well, the whole world will suffer.China is begging both us and North Korea to cool it.
Russia has also asked both countries to be very careful.
South Korea has warned us not to start anything on the peninsula without their consent as a military ally.
Trump has got to stop fanning his peacock feathers and actually start considering the wider consequences of his actions, including show he s putting on near the Korean peninsula at the moment.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images