Republican Rep. Trey Gowdy, the leader of the House s top investigative committee, slammed special counsel Robert Mueller on Sunday for allowing the news media to learn that he and his legal team now have charges in their Russia investigation.
In the only conversation I ve had with Robert Mueller, I stressed to him the importance of cutting out the leaks, Gowdy, chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, told Fox News Sunday.
It s kind of ironic that the people charged with investigating the law and the violations of the law would violate the law.
Mueller and his team have for roughly the past five months been leading a Justice Department investigation into whether anybody associated with the President Trump s 2016 White House campaign colluded with Russia to influence the election outcome.
On Friday night, CNN reported that Mueller s team has filed the first charges in the case with a federal grand jury.IN THE MEAN TIME, TRUMP S LAWYER SAYS THERE S NO WORRY: Donald Trump s lawyer says President Trump is not worried about what his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort or former national security adviser Mike Flynn told special counsel Robert Mueller in his investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.Ty Cobb told the New York Times Trump is confident neither Manafort nor Flynn has incriminating information about the president.
The president has no concerns in terms of any impact, as to what happens to them, on his campaign or on the White House, Cobb said.Prosecutors on Mueller s team reportedly warned Manafort to expect an indictment when they raided his Virginia home in July.CNN reported late Friday the first charges have been filed in the Russia investigation and anyone charged could be taken into custody as soon as Monday.
It is not known who is being charged in the case.
Trump likes and respects Mr. Manafort and appreciates the work he did for him during the three months he was with the campaign.
He likes General Flynn personally, but understands that they have their own path with the special counsel, Cobb said.
I think he would be sad for them, as a friend and a former colleague, if the process results in punishment or indictments.
But to the extent that that happens, that s beyond his control.