The AIDS crisis is far from over, but thanks to medical advancements, the diagnosis is no longer a death sentence as it was in the 1980s and 1990s.
In those days, the LGBT community was blamed for the epidemic and our pain was largely ignored by those in positions to help.
In fact, bigots often mocked the suffering of people they clearly viewed as less than human.
One such person was Rebecca Bradley, who was a student at Marquette University at the height of the crisis.
She also happens to be the newest justice to make it to the Supreme Court in the state of Wisconsin.One Wisconsin Now, a left-wing activist organization, managed to dig up some of this woman s more interesting articles, in which she expressed some truly disturbing opinions.
In one such article Bradley slammed AIDS activists and their misdirected compassion for the degenerates who basically commit suicide through their behavior.
She also opined that having AIDS was better than having cancer because those afflicted with the politically-correct disease will be getting all of the funding.
As if that weren t bad enough, Bradley topped it all off with an even more disgusting opinion: How sad that the lives of degenerate drug addicts and queers are valued more than the innocent victims of more prevalent ailments.
Here are screenshots of just a few choice quotes from Rebecca Bradley, via One Wisconsin Now:It is also worth noting that this woman believes that abortion is the equivalent of Nazism and slavery.Now, sure, this was more than two decades ago, but it s quite likely that Bradley s opinions haven t changed all that much.
Hateful tigers generally don t change their stripes.
In response to the controversy, Bradley only said that what s in the articles have nothing to do with who I am as a person or a jurist, and they have nothing to do with the issues facing the voters of this state.
With all due respect Madame, that is a load of horseshit and you know it.
There s no way you could be fair on any matter involving LGBT people if those are the views you hold on something as serious as the AIDS epidemic.
Further, your use of dehumanizing slurs is truly beyond the pale.
You, my dear, have no business being on any judicial bench, or in any position of power whatsoever, anywhere.Wisconsin, rise up and reject this hateful excuse for a Supreme Court justice, or you ll be stuck with a bona fide bigot making decisions for you for the next decade.Featured image via screen capture from Queerty