On Thursday, failed 2012 presidential candidate Mitt Romney met with William Kristol.
Kristol, considered an influential voice on the right, is leading the effort to draft an independent candidate to challenge the party s presumptive nominee, Donald Trump.According to The Washington Post, Kristol and Romney met privately at the J.W.
Marriott hotel in Washington to discuss the possibility of Romney entering the race as a third-party candidate.Kristol confirmed the little meeting during a phone interview with The Washington Post on Friday, saying: He came pretty close to being elected president, so I thought he may consider doing it, especially since he has been very forthright in explaining why Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton should not be president of the United States.
The Washington Post reports that Kristol has been desperately seeking a prominent political or military figure who could be drafted into the general-election contest, in hopes of stopping Donald Trump.Kristol previously attempted to draft retired Marine Gen. James N. Mattis, who turned down the proposition.According to statements made by Romney later on Thursday, the former candidate said he is not interested in launching an independent run, however he appeared to wholeheartedly support the idea.The Washington Examiner reports that Romney said: I m certainly going to be hoping that we find someone who I have my confidence in who becomes nominee.
I don t intend on supporting either of the major-party candidates at this point.
He continued, saying: I am dismayed at where we are now, I wish we had better choices, and I keep hoping that somehow things will get better, and I just don t see an easy answer from where we are.
No Republicans, there really is no easy answer from where you are.
Where you are is totally screwed.There is no super-hero Republican political or military figure who is going to save the GOP from the monster it created.
Even if there was, it certainly wouldn t be Mitt Romney, who was already trounced by Democrats in 2012.Lest we forget, the 2016 primary season began with 22 Republican candidates.The candidates included a long list of Republican all-stars : Rick Santorum, Ben Carson, Bobby Jindal, Carly Fiorina, Mike Huckabee, Rick Perry, Jeb Bush, Chris Christie, John Kasich, Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, Jim Gilmore, Rand Paul, George Pataki, Lindsey Graham, Scott Walker, Jack Fellure, Andy Martin, Dennis Michael Lynch, Mark Everson, Jimmy McMillan and of course, Donald Trump.
Needless to say, none of the other 21 primary candidates managed to stop Donald Trump.The fact that Republicans are now hoping against hope that somehow Mitt Romney can save the Republican party from certain death is almost comical.The Republican base clearly doesn t want another candidate.
If they did, they could have picked any one of the 21 other morons who entered the 2016 primary race.Sadly, they want Donald Trump.
Sadder still, they want Trump because his politics of hate aptly represent the dregs of society that the right-wing has been recruiting into the party for decades.Image credit: John Tlumacki/The Boston Globe via Getty Images