Ammon Bundy and his armed ganged of militants have upset an entire nation over the last couple of weeks for their supposed special treatment by the police.
While that did appear to be the case for the longest time, the raid was partially broken up by authorities after a shootout with one of Bundy s pals, LaVoy Finicum.
Now, a federal court is refusing to give people that same impression and they re sending the message loud and clear: There will be NO special treatment after laws have been broken, no matter who you think you are.On Friday, U.S. District Court judge Stacie Beckerman told Ammon Bundy and his brother that they would remain in jail and not be let out on bail pending their trial on federal conspiracy charges.If anyone knows anything about the court system, it s not a quick process.
That means Ammon Bundy is going to be in jail for a long time.
That should give him quite a long time to think about what he s done, and it should also discourage other so-called armed militants calling themselves Federalists out to protect peoples rights from thinking they can get away with breaking the law, too.Pic via Twitter.The reason for the denial should come as no surprise, though: there are still four militants occupying the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.
If the judge released Bundy or any of the other perpetrators already arrested, they could simply return to the building.
And that s exactly what prosecutors communicated to the court before bail was denied.
They also hilariously used the Bundys own words against them: This creates an inherent risk of flight.
Moreover, [their] own statements demonstrate his unwillingness to comply with the terms of pretrial supervision.On August 16, 2015, Bundy posted on Facebook that There is no justice in a federal court.
The feds have used the courts to take rights, not protect them.'
#breakingnews Read US Attorney s reason for wanting Ammon Bundy kept in jail #koin6news #Oregonstandoff pic.twitter.com/Yn6CZe5h8j Dan Tilkin (@DanTilkinKOIN6) January 29, 2016We have a strange feeling Bundy didn t like the judge s decision.
That s just a good guess.Meanwhile, the rest of the gang is refusing to standdown unless they re promised no charges will be made by the FBI.
Take a look at the latest video posted below.
These guys really do think they re special.
Whenever their supplies and snacks run out, expect them to meet the same fate as Bundy.Featured image via screen capture.