Kellyanne Conway was absolutely grilled by Chuck Todd on Friday because Donald Trump has been picking Goldman Sachs executives for his cabinet.Donald Trump spent a good part of his campaign trashing Hillary Clinton for having mere connections to Goldman Sachs.
Now he has picked three Goldman Sachs alums, including Steve Bannon as his chief policy strategist, Steven Mnuchin as Treasury Secretary, and Gary Cohn as the head of the National Economic Council.Chuck Todd began by playing video of Trump demonizing Ted Cruz and Hillary Clinton for taking donations from Goldman Sachs.
They have total control over him just like they have total control over Hillary Clinton, Trump said, claiming that he doesn t need money from Goldman Sachs and that doesn t want it, therefore, Goldman Sachs has no control over him.
He railed against Goldman Sachs, Todd told Conway.
Three Goldman Sachs alums.
Fairly prominent positions.
How is that not hypocritical?
Of course, Conway tried to spin in defense of Trump.
He railed against their political influence, Conway said, which doesn t really make sense since Trump literally just gave three Goldman Sachs executives tremendous political influence.Nevertheless, Conway claimed that they don t have influence over him politically and they will not have influence over him politically in the White House.
However, Trump has said that Goldman Sachs owns Ted Cruz because he took loans from them.
But that logic backfired because it turns out Trump has also taken loans from Goldman Sachs, which according to Trump means they own him.
And now three of them are in Trump s cabinet.Todd once again cornered Conway and demanded answers.First, he wanted to know how she would react if Hillary Clinton had won and appointed three Goldman Sachs alums.
She claimed that she wouldn t have whined about but we all know Trump and all of his supporters would be throwing a collective temper tantrum.The Todd wondered, Was the trashing of Goldman just simply campaign rhetoric and sort of B.S.?
The answer is yes but Conway again went with the whole he was just talking about political influence line, and Todd refused to let Conway get away with that bullshit.
Those are political appointments!
Todd exclaimed.But the facts don t matter to team Trump, and Conway simply kept talking and talking and talking to run out the clock and force Todd to move one to the next topic.Here s the video via YouTube.Once again, Donald Trump gets caught being a complete hypocrite and his team spews bullshit to defend him.
These people have no shame and their supporters should be pissed.Featured Image: Screenshot