Cops are no fan of the #BlackLivesMatter movement.
They don t like it because it shines a light on the systemic racism, the so-called Blue Code of Silence, and brutality, murder and corruption that is so prevalent in police culture.
While this is understandable, considering their positions, some things are just beyond the pale.
Here is one of those things.#BlackLivesMatter activist MarShawn McCarrel was a pillar of his community, but apparently he had some very deep struggles of his own.
He left a post on his own Facebook wall that said that his demons won.
He committed suicide that same day.
While most people who are not complete sociopaths would be upset at anyone s suicide, one Ohio cop had the opposite reaction to McCarrel s death.
In fact, this pile of excrement actually reacted joyfully with a Facebook post of his own that read, Love the happy ending.
Here is a tweet from writer and activist Shaun King that not only showed the officer s, Lee Cyr of the Fairborn Police Department, reaction, but also other equally gross and disrespectful comments.Ohio Officer Lee Cyr suspended for calling the suicide of #MarshawnMcCarrel a "happy ending" https://t.co/LpAckz1CNK pic.twitter.com/2IzMO6zj9R Shaun King (@ShaunKing) February 12, 2016Luckily, the police department s actions were swift, and Cyr has been suspended.
The Chief of the Department, Terry Barlow, said of the incident: When we were made aware of a Facebook post that was linked to a Fairborn police officer, an internal affairs complaint was initiated.
Posts that may discredit the police department are against policy.
We take this seriously.
We will ensure the professional standards of the department are upheld.
While this is all fine and well, Barlow really should have condemned the remarks for how absolutely disgusting they were, rather than just worrying about this cop s views being a blight on his department s image.As far as I am concerned, this department is definitely discredited without a much stronger condemnation of this cop s words, and without a full termination.
He has no business policing anyone, especially not black people.Watch a news report on the story below, courtesy of local station WHIO:Featured image via video screen capture from Raw Story