We ve made it very easy for you to pick up the phone, or go to their Facebook pages to let these Senators hear your voice.
Obama will undoubtedly choose a radical to replace one of the most conservative voices on the US Supreme Court.
This would be the final nail in America s coffin, as Obama s fundamental transformation of America would be complete.
This nomination is every bit as serious as the person we nominate for President of the United States.
When you have a court loaded with justices who have no regard for our US Constitution and choose to instead, legislate from the bench, our freedoms will no longer be protected and our nation will be doomed WATCH OBAMA PUBLICLY BULLY and attempt to embarrass anyone who stands in his way: https://youtu.be/1ITQXYyNo1wPresident Obama called on Senate Republicans Tuesday to give his eventual Supreme Court nominee a fair hearing in his bid to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia, as cracks emerged in the Republican leadership s position of automatically blocking any nominee.
I expect them to hold hearings.
I expect them to hold a vote, Mr. Obama said at a press conference.
There s no unwritten law that says it can only be done on off years.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Kentucky Republican, and others including presidential candidates Sens.
Ted Cruz of Texas and Marco Rubio of Florida have vowed to block any Obama nominee, saying the next president should select Justice Scalia s replacement.Mr.
Obama blasted that rationale.
This is the Supreme Court, the highest court in the land, the president said.
It s the one court where we would expect elected officials to rise above day-to-day politics.
I understand the stakes.
I understand the pressure that Republican senators are undoubtedly under.
This would be a deciding vote.
But that s not how the system is supposed to work.
Even before Mr. Obama stated his case, there were signs that Republican unity was wavering on the notion of blocking any nominee out of hand.Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, Iowa Republican [Phone: (202) 224 3744], didn t rule out confirmation hearings and a vote by his panel on an Obama selection.You can voice your opinion on Senator Chuck Grassley s Facebook page by clicking HERE.
I would wait until the nominee is made before I would make any decision, Mr. Grassley said Tuesday in a conference call with Iowa radio reporters.
In other words, take it a step at a time.
Asked whether he thought the controversy over filling the court vacancy might endanger his re-election chances this fall, Mr. Grassley said, I think I have a responsibility to perform, and I can t worry about the election.
I ve got to do my job as a senator, whatever it is.
And there will be a lot of tough votes between now and the next election.
His comments appeared to be a softening from a statement shortly after Justice Scalia s death, when Mr. Grassley said it was standard practice not to nominate or confirm candidates for the Supreme Court in an election year.
It only makes sense that we defer to the American people who will elect a new president to select the next Supreme Court Justice, Mr. Grassley said in a statement Saturday.Sen.
Thom Tillis, North Carolina Republican [Phone: (202) 224-6342] , voiced caution about blocking any Obama nominee automatically.You can voice your opinion on Senator Thom Tillis Facebook page by clicking HERE.
I think we fall into the trap if [we] just simply say, sight unseen, we fall into the trap of being obstructionists, Mr. Tillis said on Tyler Cralle s radio show.But Mr. Tillis added of the president, If he puts forth someone that we think is in the mold of President Obama s vision for America, then we ll use every device available to block that nomination.
A top aide to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, Nevada Democrat, responding to Mr. Tillis comments, predicted that Mr. McConnell will eventually retreat from his stance of blocking any Obama nominee without a hearing.
Via: Washington Times