ESPN has a bit of a conservative bias problem.
The network devoted to sports may have anchors of all political backgrounds, but the right-leaning ones keep managing to embarrass everyone else.Nowhere is that more clear than with Sage Steele, an ESPN reporter with an inexplicable seething hatred for President Obama and his landmark healthcare reform.
How much does she hate the idea of universal healthcare?
Watch her painfully ham-fisted attempt to stop Arcade Fire s Win Butler from endorsing the seemingly uncontroversial idea that everyone should have health insurance.Butler wanted to use the opportunity of playing in a Celebrity All-Star basketball game in Toronto to bring up the issue of healthcare.
He starts to make a comparison between Canada s model of universal healthcare and America s rather lousy counterpart when Steele rudely interrupts him with this astoundingly dumb line: We re talking about celebrity stuff, not politics.
Priorities!Heaven forbid celebrities talk about issues that matter (especially in the lead up to a very important presidential election) instead of what they re wearing, who they re dating, and how exciting it is to win an MVP trophy at a Celebrity All-Star game.But Steele isn t just shallow, she s tenaciously anti-Obamacare.
She wasn t just trying to move the show along, she was trying to prevent Butler from putting pesky ideas like nobody deserves to go bankrupt when they get sick into the heads of the American public watching the show.And it s not just singers that Steele doesn t think should be allowed to talk about healthcare she also bashed the President of the United States for doing it.Comical hearing @BarackObama pimping his health care plan on @ESPN_Colin 's show It's ESPN!!
Let's stick to his take on hoops!!!
Sage Steele (@sagesteele) March 20, 2014While guest starring on The View in 2014, Steele was in the mood to discuss Obamacare but only to say that it would destroy America.So far ESPN has remained silent about one of its reporters so shamelessly censoring the liberal political opinions of someone on their show.
Unfortunately, this lack of backbone isn t surprising.
ESPN recently came under fire for suspending one of their reporters when he called out ESPN contributor Curt Schilling for being astoundingly ignorant of evolution following one of Schillings almost daily anti-science rants on Twitter.
Schilling received no punishment.ESPN wants to be more than just a sports channel, but in order to do that it needs to start respecting the idea of the free exchange of ideas.
The people who watch the network probably like watching celebrities play basketball, but they also want to be informed about the world.
This kind of blatant censorship has no place, no matter how much Sage Steele might prefer it.Feature image from screen capture via YouTube