After James Comey called him a liar five times on Thursday, Donald Trump has been obsessing over the former FBI Director s damning testimony.
It s driving him insane so insane that he has deigned it appropriate to cave to pressure to testify.
Under oath.
Where lies become crimes.
It s like f*cking Christmas.In the aftermath of Comey s testimony, The Donald attempted to demonize the former director, complaining that he is a LEAKER because he passed on his not the least bit classified thoughts on his meeting with Trump.Despite so many false statements and lies, total and complete vindication and WOW, Comey is a leaker!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 9, 2017Many have been challenging Trump to testify lately and now the orange occupant of the Oval Office says he s going to do just that.
The Hill reports: One hundred percent, Trump said when asked if he would give a sworn statement to Robert Mueller, the special counsel leading the investigation into Russia s election interference.
I would be glad to tell him exactly what I told you, the president said during a press conference in the White House Rose Garden.
Yesterday showed no collusion, no obstruction, Trump said, ignoring that Comey said nothing to dispute collusion or obstruction.
He refused to comment in an open setting.
But we were very, very happy and, frankly, James Comey confirmed a lot of what I said.
And some of the things that he said just weren t true.
Yes, according to The Donald, Comey a liar confirmed many of the things he has said, even though he s a lying liar whose pants are on fire.Though he originally threatened to release tapes of his conversations with Comey, The Donald now says they may not exist, telling reporters that you will be very disappointed when you hear the answer.
But, of course, the threat lives on:James Comey better hope that there are no "tapes" of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 12, 2017Comey s response during his testimony was Lordy, I hope there are tapes, so we can safely assume Trump s new statement means that he destroyed any recordings he made.Watch below:Pres.
Trump would 100% be willing to say under oath that he didn t ask Comey to let Flynn investigation "go"; didn't say I need loyalty."
pic.twitter.com/TayObtkChX ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) June 9, 2017Featured image via Getty Images