If you listen to Republicans, we live in a post-racial society.
The fact that we have a black President, they say, proves that there is no racism, and to claim otherwise is racist.
Of course, they ignore the unprecedented disrespect the President has had to endure.
They also ignore the fact that black people, whether armed or unarmed, guilty or innocent, are far more likely to end up dead at the hands of police.
Tired of the shootings, pop star Beyonc is using her celebrity to speak out on the issue and on Black Lives Matter.The home page of Beyonc s website, which used to be standard for a musician a list of upcoming tour dates, a promotion of her latest album, etc now includes this simple but powerful message.
She s fed up with the recent rash of police killings of innocent black men.
Who can blame her?
We are sick and tired of the killings of young men and women in our communities.
It is up to us to take a stand and demand that they stop killing us.
We don t need sympathy.
We need everyone to respect our lives.
We re going to stand up as a community and fight against anyone who believes that murder or any violent action by those who are sworn to protect us should consistently go unpunished.
These robberies of lives make us feel helpless and hopeless but we have to believe that we are fighting for the rights of the next generation, for the next young men and women who believe in good.
This is a human fight.
No matter your race, gender, or sexual orientation.
This is a fight for anyone who feels marginalized, who is struggling for freedom and human rights.
This is not a plea to all police officers but toward any human being who fails to value life.
The war on people of color and all minorities needs to be over.
Fear is not an excuse.
Hate will not win.
We all have the power to channel our anger and frustration into action.
We must use our voices to contact the politicians and legislators in our districts and demand social and judicial changes.
While we pray for the families of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, we will also pray for an end to this plague of injustice in our communities.
Click in to contact the politicians and legislators in your area.
Your voice will be heard.
Beyonc On Thursday, she also paused her concert in Glasgow, Scotland, for a moment of silence and a tribute over the killing of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile:Beyonc takes moment during her Glasgow show for those who lost their lives to police violence https://t.co/peilooh3hghttps://t.co/QXNcKMXKMb ABC News (@ABC) July 8, 2016Hopefully, the powerful words of this wonderful musician and civil rights crusader are heard, along with those of others.
It s time to stop the violence.Featured image via Mike Coppola with Getty Images.