President Trump was lambasted by Democrats and their allies in the media when he suggested that up to 3 million illegal aliens likely voted in the 2016 elections.FAKE fact checker SNOPES was quick to discredit his claim without any evidence.
They even went as far as to say that cases of voter fraud were extremely rare:FAKE fact checker Politifact gave President Trump s claim of voter fraud a pants on fire rating:Fox and Friends host Ainsley Earhardt delivered the disturbing news to viewers this morning that an independent group has claimed up to 5.7 million illegal aliens voted in the 2008 election that gave us President Barack Hussein Obama:As many as 5.7 million illegal immigrants might have voted in the 2008 election, report finds pic.twitter.com/aPfq8MYuSA FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) June 20, 2017A research group in New Jersey has taken a fresh look at postelection polling data and concluded that the number of noncitizens voting illegally in U.S. elections is likely far greater than previous estimates.Watch:Just Facts conclusions confront both sides in the illegal voting debate: those who say it happens a lot and those who say the problem nonexistent.In one camp, there are groundbreaking studies by professors at Old Dominion University in Virginia who attempted to compile scientifically derived illegal voting numbers using the Harvard data, called the Cooperative Congressional Election Study.On the other side are the professors who conducted the study and contended that zero noncitizens of about 18 million adults in the U.S. voted.
The liberal mainstream media adopted this position and proclaimed the Old Dominion work was debunked.
The ODU professors, who stand by their work in the face of attacks from the left, concluded that in 2008 as few as 38,000 and as many as 2.8 million noncitizens voted.Mr.
Agresti s analysis of the same polling data settled on much higher numbers.
He estimated that as many as 7.9 million noncitizens were illegally registered that year and 594,000 to 5.7 million voted.These numbers are more in line with the unverified estimates given by President Trump, who said the number of ballots cast by noncitizens was the reason he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton.Last month, the president signed an executive order setting up a commission to try to find on-the-ground truth in illegal voting.
Headed by Vice President Mike Pence, the panel also will look at outdated voter lists across the nation with names of dead people and multiple registrants.For 2012, Just Facts said, 3.2 million to 5.6 million noncitizens were registered to vote and 1.2 million to 3.6 million of them voted.Mr.
Agresti lays out his reasoning in a series of complicated calculations, which he compares to U.S. Census Bureau figures for noncitizen residents.
Polls show noncitizens vote overwhelmingly Democratic.For entire story: Washington Times