It can easily be said that there is a madman who has been allowed to take residence in the White House.
A man with the maturity level of an awkward prepubescent pre-teen.
A man who has been handed everything his entire life yet still feels entitled to bash others if they so dare criticize him and the work he supposedly does.As you all probably remember the horrible Megyn Kelly remarks he made about her bleeding out of her wherever, Trump has now decided to bash yet another news anchor and call her out on her bleeding, and this time it s MSNBC s Mika Brzezinski.In an early morning rage, clearly not happy with what was said about him on Morning Joe, albeit he says he wasn t watching yet clearly was, Trump tweeted: I heard poorly rated [Morning Joe] speaks badly of me (don t watch anymore).
Then how come low I.Q.
Crazy Mika, along with Psycho Joe, came to Mar-a-Lago 3 nights in a row around New Year s Eve, and insisted on joining me.
She was bleeding badly from a face-lift.
I said no!
I heard poorly rated @Morning_Joe speaks badly of me (don't watch anymore).
Then how come low I.Q.
Crazy Mika, along with Psycho Joe, came.. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017 to Mar-a-Lago 3 nights in a row around New Year's Eve, and insisted on joining me.
She was bleeding badly from a face-lift.
I said no!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017Keep in mind all of this is being preserved as part of the national presidential record.
Proud to be an American, huh?This isn t only bullying behavior, but sue-worthy behavior and hopefully Mika goes after him hard with a hefty lawsuit.
Pardon my language, but wow, what an asshole.This is not how a *president is supposed to behave.
This is not how any person is supposed to behave.
Wow.
Just wow.
This is a dark time for the nation.Trump is a child and a mean child at that.
He doesn t belong anywhere near the Oval Office and hopefully, Congress realizes that sooner rather than later.However, all that aside.
Mika is getting the last laugh because her response is absolutely perfect:pic.twitter.com/8YhzcCUwM1 Mika Brzezinski (@morningmika) June 29, 2017Ha!
Well played.
(*pending investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 election)Featured image via Getty Images