One night in 2013, Reverend Catherine Brown turned down the alley that leads to the driveway of her Chicago home, just as she had done many times before.
Her two small children were in the back of her vehicle.As she came around the curve, Rev.
Brown encountered a vehicle heading straight toward her on the narrow alleyway.
Her first instinct was to slam on the horn, as she quickly brought her own car to a stop.Before Brown knew what was happening, Chicago police officer Michelle Morsi Murphy jumped from the other vehicle and immediately began hurling obscenities at the young mother.According to Brown, she was shocked by the officer s aggressive actions.
As she reached for driver s license, a second officer, Jose Lopez, got out of the vehicle and pointed a gun at her head.Not knowing what else to do, the terrified pastor called 911 asking for a supervisor to be sent to the location.According to CBS in Chicago, which obtained a copy of Brown s 911 call, the recordings reveal she felt threatened and in danger.
They also show that She repeatedly asks for a lieutenant and police to come and help.
CBS Chicago also reports that her daughters screams can be heard on the calls.
Instead of waiting for a supervisor to arrive, Murphy and Lopez attempted to force the door of Brown s vehicle open.The terrified pastor put her car in reverse and backed out of the alley, hoping to reach an area where witnesses might see what was taking place.The two Chicago police officers pursued Brown s vehicle.Dashcam footage shows that, once she was out of the alley, Brown brought her own vehicle to a complete stop again.The cops plowed directly into Brown s car, showing a complete lack of concern for the two children in the backseat.At this point Brown got out of her car and began shouting for witnesses.Officer Lopez then pepper-sprayed the terrified woman directly in the face, also spraying her one-year-old baby in the process.
Officer Murphy can be seen laughing.Murphy then jumped on top of a car which was parked on the street, next to Brown s vehicle, aiming her gun directly at the woman.Another officer appeared at this point.
He charged onto the scene, hitting Brown s car with a metal object.The entire gang of Chicago police officers then tackled the unarmed mother, beating and kicking her.
They beat me down to my underwear, Brown told CBS Chicago.
They tore my skirt off.
They beat me with their batons, kicked me with their boots.
Between the two of them, officers Murphy and Lopez have a total of 30 excessive force complaints against them.
Yet these two officers remain on the police force.
Since when does protecting and serving mean beating unarmed women and terrifying innocent children?Watch the video from CBS Chicago below, via YouTube.
Featured image via video screen capture CBS Chicago via YouTube