A Target employee in Indiana has just gone viral for showing the utmost care, patience and kindness to a customer who was struggling to pay for her items.Ishmael Gilbert was an employee at the Glendale, Indiana Target store and had only been a part of the store s team for a short time when the 19-year-old had to ring up an elderly woman.
Gilbert had no idea that what happened next would make him an internet star.When it came time to pay for her items, the woman revealed she d be using coins to pay.
Gilbert didn t hesitate to help the woman add up her change and remained patient, even as some customers huffed off to find a shorter line.
Gilbert said: She was all worked up because the line was getting longer and she was moving so slow.
She was shaking.
Behind the elderly woman was 35-year-old Sarah Owen Bigler, who was watching Gilbert s encounter with his elderly customer.
Bigler was originally annoyed that her trip to Target was now going to be longer than planned, but she decided to stay when her young daughter took an interest in what Gilbert was doing.
When Bigler s daughter asked Gilbert about the change he was counting, Bigler knew the wait would be worth it.
She said: Part of me, the part that had a long day at work, the part of me who had a 1 1/2 year old having a melt down in the cart, the part that had set an unnecessary timeline for Target and getting home, was frustrated with this woman and the inconvenience she had placed on me.BUT then I watched the young employee with this woman.
I watched him help her count her change, ever so tenderly taking it from her shaking hands.
I listened to him repeatedly saying yes, mam to her.
When she asked if she had enough to buy a reusable bag, he told her she did and went two lines over to get one for her and then repackaged her items.
Never once did this employee huff, gruff or roll his eyes.
He was nothing but patient and kind.As I was watching him, I saw that Eloise was too.
She was standing next to the woman, watching the employee count the change.
I realized I hadn t been inconvenienced at all.
That my daughter was instead witnessing kindness and patience and being taught this valuable lesson by a complete stranger; furthermore, I realized that I too needed a refresher on this lesson.
Bigler was so blown away by what she witnessed that she took a photo and posted it on her Facebook page, where it quickly went viral.
The post has now gained over 25,000 shares.// < !
[CDATA[ (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); // ]]&gt;Yesterday Matt was sick.
I picked up Archie from the sitter and Eloise from school and decided to run to Target for a Posted by Sarah Owen Bigler on Wednesday, January 13, 2016When he woke up the next day, Gilbert still had no idea.
He said: I was asleep at home and everyone was texting me, check Facebook, check Facebook.'
When he finally realized that his moment with the elderly woman had gone viral, he was stunned.
I never thought it d blow up this big.
Her post, I guessed it touched a lot of people.
On Friday, Bigler and her daughter came back to the Glensdale Target to meet with the media and see Gilbert again.
Gilbert said: It just feels good to be recognized for good work.
But this isn t something new.
I treat all customers the same, the way I want to be treated.
And it turns out, Gilbert s lesson on patience and kindness to Bigler s daughter wasn t lost on him.
Gilbert has a daughter of his own, who just turned one.
It felt like a daddy-and-daughter moment a little.
She asked, what s that?
I said that s a penny.
It felt good because that s the kind of example I want to be for my daughter.
Since his overnight fame, Gilbert has been offered money and other job offers, although he plans to stay where he is for now.
Glendale Target Store Team Leader Todd Davis has said that Gilbert s actions will have a positive impact on his career at the store.
Davis said: Very rarely you get the opportunity to talk about something that s a positive impact in the community.
You never know who s watching.
Featured image via Facebook