The GOP has obstructed President Obama at every turn since he set foot in the Oval Office.
They hate the man with a passion, and will stop at nothing including the destruction of the country in order to ensure anything Obama might do fails.
That fact is why it comes as no surprise that, in the wake of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia s death, the GOP is busily and openly vowing to make sure no Obama appointee gets onto the court.The thing is, though, it is entirely possible for the Republicans to have their way on this one.
The nominee would have to be confirmed by the Senate, which is controlled by the GOP.
Therefore, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell can delay the confirmation until President Obama is out of office.
Hell, he can delay as along he likes, actually, as long as the GOP controls the Senate.
Ted Cruz, for his part, has vowed to block anyone Obama might put up for the position, and he is sure to have the full backing of his fellow Republican Senators.There is a catch here, though, for the Democrats.
Senator Chuck Schumer, who is set to succeed Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid in 2017, is furious with Cruz and McConnell for their plans of blatant obstruction, and he said so on live television Sunday morning.
That s not all, either.
If Schumer wants, he can go ahead and remove the option of filibusters for presidential appointments to the Supreme Court.
Filibusters have already been removed as an option for other appointments made by sitting presidents, but not for SCOTUS appointments.
This would be disastrous for the GOP, because it means they would be powerless to stop any appointments made to the court by the next (Hopefully Democratic) president.Think about that people stay on the Supreme Court for decades, literally.
If Schumer does this, the GOP is doomed for at least two generations.
Now, this tactic is extreme.
Democrats are not extremists, and we don t like to threaten our right-wing counterparts.
However, they are forcing our hands on this one.
If this happens, it will be no one but the obstructionist Republicans faults.
The sitting president has the constitutional right to make Supreme Court appointments.They are willing to let a Supreme Court seat sit empty and block all Obama appointees no matter who they might be for a full 300+ days, all for spite, the cost to the nation be damned.
That right there is an extreme measure, and it pretty much forces an extreme response.Likely, Schumer doesn t want to go to extremes, but since the GOP seems unwilling to budge on this one, he most likely should.Featured image from video screen capture