It seems that part of Donald Trump s plan to make America great again involves building the Keystone XL pipeline.
The reason he thinks it will make us great again has nothing to do with the jobs it will, or won t, create, and has nothing to do with oil sales from Canada to the U.S., since Keystone XL will just deliver oil to the Gulf for export.
Trump wants a direct piece of TransCanada s profits in return for allowing the pipeline to be built.That sounds great, doesn t it?
We should be compensated for allowing TransCanada to transport oil across the entire width of the U.S., right?
Plus, it d be an influx of cash.
Trump even said: I want it built, but I want a piece of the profits That s how we re going to make our country rich again.
All right!
Score one for the little guy!Or not.
Under international law set forth by the World Trade Organization, governments must apply the same tax treatments to both domestic and foreign products.
Trump s plan amounts to an extra tax on TransCanada that domestic drillers, particularly in North Dakota, would escape despite also using the pipeline.
There are also problems with his plan usurping Congressional authority on taxes, which is why Congressional Republicans aren t happy about this.However, Trump sees the issue through the lens of his shady business acumen, and not through the realities of international relations and laws, so of course he thinks he can simply make a deal with TransCanada and with Canada itself.
Plus, he knows TransCanada is willing to do almost anything to get that pipeline built, so he believes he d have them over a barrel (no pun intended) and could extract whatever concessions he wants from them, international law be damned.There s also the issue of hurting relations with Canada.
He s already hurt our relationship with Mexico and would continue to do so as president does he really think alienating the only two countries with which we share land borders is a good idea?
Jeffrey Jones, a columnist for Globe and Mail, called this kooky proposal uncomfortably close to nationalization.
Jones also said: In fact, why stop at oil pipelines?
Mr. Trump could demand a fatter take from natural gas lines or even restaurants and retail stores.
And Trump would, because that s how he s going to make America great again.
In his mind, the world owes us a ton, and while many might agree, many of those same people don t agree with the tactics he plans to use to make them pay up, including ripping up existing trade agreements like NAFTA.This isn t the first time that Trump has said we need a better deal, on Keystone XL, but, last year, he said that he would approve the pipeline project as is immediately upon taking office.
That s since changed, and as long as the U.S. gets the better deal, he doesn t really care about the law.
It s a similar situation with what he wants to do with China against international law, but a better deal for us and so he ll find a way to force it.President Obama has repeatedly blocked the construction of Keystone XL because we don t need another environmental disaster waiting to happen running the entire width of the country.
In fact, Obama met with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau about it, and while Trudeau was disappointed that Obama would block Keystone, they both believe action on climate change will depend on both of them working together and making compromises.Trump, on the other hand, thinks climate change is a hoax for a whole host of illogical reasons, not the least of which is because it gets cold and snows in some places in the winter.
His motive for wanting to build Keystone XL is purely profit-driven, like any good little corporate mogul s motives would be.
At least Obama has solid reasons for opposing Keystone XL.
Trump just wants money, money, and more money.The sad thing is that it s not likely that even his idea would make our country rich again.
He s thinking about his own profit.
Who knows where that money would go should King Trump actually get elected?
Given his disregard for all sorts of laws, he d probably find a way to divert that money to his own coffers, at least until he was caught and hauled before an international court over the issue.Good ol Trump.
Looking out for the little guy, because that s clearly himself.Featured image by Ralph Freso/Getty Images