After the election of Donald Trump, albeit not the popular vote by a long shot, many bigots everywhere are taking this as their cue to be as awful as possible.
That somehow, just because a racist and misogynist got elected, that is their permission slip to verbally, or worse, physically assault people.It also looks that even liberal safe havens such as Los Angeles aren t even immune to this sort of bigotry that now seems justified to some.HBO s Silicon Valley stars Kumail Nanjiani and Thomas Middleditch were out at a bar in Silverlake, which is predominantly full of young liberal hipsters, and were approached by two men using white supremacist terminology.Nanjiani is Pakistani-American, and these two men apparently thought they could harass him and who he was with.
Was it because of the color of his skin?
Or was it just because they re actors who stood against Trump?
Really, who s to know, but I bet most of us can take a wild guess.Here s Nanjiani s thread explaining the altercation with Middleditch chiming in:Was at a bar last night with @Middleditch.
At the end of the night, 2 white dudes, 20's, who'd been there for hours came up to us.
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016"We're big fans of you guys.
(To Thomas) I trolled you on twitter yesterday."
He goes on to say how we're wrong about Trump.
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016I go "Hey we don't wanna discuss politics right now."
His friends goes "oh they're cucks."
Then starts yelling at us.
"CUCKS CUCKS CUCKS!"
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016Btw, "cuck" is an Alt Right term.
Look it up, it's not positive.
Thomas Middleditch (@Middleditch) November 12, 2016He starts getting in my face.
Thomas puts his hand on the dude's chest to stop him.
"Don't touch me you cuck.
Wanna go outside?"
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016At this point, the bouncer runs over, grabs them, kicks them out.
The bartender is awesome & apologetic.
Thomas & I are stunned.
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016This happened at a bar in LA surrounded by ppl.
I can't imagine what it must be like to be someone who looks like me in other parts.
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016.
@Tallarico @Thesixler @kumailn This was in Silver Lake.
Gentrification central.
Unbelievable.
Thomas Middleditch (@Middleditch) November 12, 2016@Pidgejen Just expected it somewhere else.
I could've worded it better.
Thought Silver Lake was full of peaceful hipsters.
Thomas Middleditch (@Middleditch) November 12, 2016We can't let hate/racism/bigotry/sexism be normalized.
If something happens, be safe, but let it be known we won't stand for this.
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016.
@kumailn Yes!
Either you agreed with the sketchy rhetoric or you turned a blind eye to it.
Bad news either way.
Thomas Middleditch (@Middleditch) November 12, 2016We thought Internet would give us access to ppl w different points of view.
Instead it gives us access to many ppl w the same point of view.
Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) November 12, 2016This can t be the America we live in.
We need to stand up against hate where it stands and not allow these hateful individuals to think they can be as horrendous as they want.
Not today.
Not ever.Featured Photo by Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images