Justice Department deputy solicitor general Michael Dreeben will assist Robert Mueller and he s no slacker.
He has argued more than 100 cases before the U.S. Supreme Court so his resume is worthy of joining the investigation into possible coordination between Trump s associates and Russian officials.
Donald Trump had better stock up on aspirin because team Mueller is going to be all up in his business.
The move signals that Mueller may be seeking advice on complex areas of criminal law, including what constitutes obstruction of justice and that has been an issue of debate for a while now.
Most recently, when former FBI Director James Comey testified Thursday.Dreeben is the department s go-to lawyer on criminal justice cases and is highly respected by Democrats and Republicans alike due to his encyclopedic knowledge of criminal law, according to the Washington Post.Dreeben has been pulled into the investigation to work part time for Mueller while he continues to oversee the department s criminal appellate cases, according to Justice officials.According to former and current Justice Department officials, Mueller s recruitment of Dreeben into the probe shows how serious he is about the investigation and signals complexities in the investigation.Dreeben is thought of as brilliant in his area of expertise:Michael is the most brilliant and most knowledgeable federal criminal lawyer in America period, said Walter Dellinger, a law professor at Duke University School of Law and acting solicitor general for the 1996-1997 term of the Supreme Court.
I learned early on in my time as acting [solicitor general] that there was no point of ever thinking of second-guessing Michael on a matter of federal criminal law because he just knew more than I did or could ever know, Dellinger said.
He s a straight shooter, and is held in the greatest esteem by the FBI and lawyers in U.S. attorneys offices all over the country.
It s not just Dreeben:Mueller s team includes Jeannie Rhee, a former deputy assistant attorney general and a partner in the investigations practice at WilmerHale, and Andrew Weissmann, the chief of the Justice Department s fraud section who oversaw corruption investigations including the probe into cheating by Volkswagen on diesel emissions tests over.Aaaand, Trump s lawyer can t even spell President so that s kind of sad, don t you think?
Marc Kasowitz, Trump s life-long personal attorney, issued a statement to refute Comey s testimony.
The only problem is that it was riddled with errors, including the spelling of President.
Spelling is HARD.Trump better lawyer up but hire someone more effective because it s Mueller Time!Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images