If the Republican Party actually took this guy s advice they wouldn t be a party on the verge of extinction.Donald Trump and the GOP are waging a pathetic effort to reach out to black voters, but a black voter who writes a column for the Charlotte Observer took the Republican Party to task on Tuesday by teaching them a lesson on how they can attract minority voters if they are really serious about getting votes beyond the old white male demographic.
Hey, Republican Party.
African-American voter here, Eric Frazier began.
I hear you ve been looking for me, but you re sending out such wildly mixed messages that I m not sure if I should be flattered or furious.
Hat No.
2 fits me pretty snugly right now.
Here s why.Your national standard-bearer, Donald Trump, is making an explicit appeal for my vote.
He came to Charlotte last week and said the Democratic Party plays black voters for suckers while black neighborhoods rot.
Trump asked African-Americans what they have to lose by voting for someone new, which Frazier called a fair question.
Too bad the guy asking it ranks as the most racially inflammatory presidential candidate since arch-segregationist George Wallace, he snapped back.
Instead of making his black-voter sales pitch by talking to us, he s doing it by talking about us to white audiences.
That tells me a hell of a lot more than the words on his Teleprompter do.
Someone call the burn unit because Trump just got torched.Frazier called Trump out for calling all black people poor when, in fact, 74 percent of African-Americans live above the poverty line.
Frazier concedes that a 26 percent poverty rate is still too high, especially when compared to white people, but the statistics clearly show that Trump was wrong to make such a claim.
Frazier opined that Trump is only making a pitch to black voters because he is trying to just give cover to embarrassed white supporters who are sick of answering for his racial provocations.
He then pointed out that Republicans in North Carolina, where Trump made his pitch, are working hard to suppress black voters by cutting Sunday voting and early voting, both of which are popular among black communities.Frazier even gave Republicans a quick lesson on how they can truly convince black voters to vote for them.
But they probably aren t going to like it.
Blacks vote Democrat today because Democrats fought for their votes.
The party that once welcomed cross-burning Klansmen did an about-face on civil rights and earned the black vote.Are you fighting to get those votes back?
Nope.The path to do so is clear, if you re interested.
Embrace affirmative action and let racist base voters walk.
Pass criminal justice reform.
Champion black entrepreneurship and the rebuilding of the inner cities.
Reach out to churchgoing black families; their traditionalist social values mirror yours.Even viewed through the lens of small-government conservatism, this agenda is do-able.You ll lose old voters.
And you ll gain new ones.
Just as the Democrats did 50 years ago.In a changing America, you ll be in position to compete for real minority votes, instead of just complaining about imaginary fraudulent ones.
To conclude, Frazier told Republicans to stop thinking black people are stupid and to start treating them like a serious voting block who damn well know who and what policies they are voting for.
Concerned about black votes this November, GOP?
Frazier asked.
Quit whining.
Stop provoking.
Start competing.
The question is will Republicans take this advice seriously or will they ignore it like they usually do?
Because the white conservative base Republicans have been relying on for years is dying off and there are not enough young conservatives to replace them.Winning national elections no longer comes down to who wins the white vote.
Donald Trump is seriously courting the old white male demographic, but his alienation of young people, blacks, Hispanics, Muslims, and women have seriously crippled his campaign.
It has also crippled the Republican Party down the ticket and could have serious repercussions for the GOP for many years to come.If Republicans ever want to sit in the White House again, they are going to have to kick out the racists and get back to being the Party of Lincoln.
Because right now, Lincoln is spinning in his grave due to the fact that white supremacists have taken over the party and are bragging about it.Black voters definitely do NOT want to support a political party that is infested and controlled by people who hate them.
And pretending that black voters will do exactly that is insulting and is a big reason why Republicans can count on losing the black vote for decades to come if they continue to refuse to change.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images