Fox News found themselves in a really uncomfortable position on Friday because of Donald Trump s gullibility.During a Fox News broadcast on Tuesday, Andrew Napolitano attempted to defend Trump s continuing insistence that President Obama wiretapped him by accusing the British intelligence agency GCHQ of wiretapping Trump after being ordered to do so by Obama.Just like Trump s original accusation, Napolitano s accusation was just as wild and baseless.
Yet, White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer repeated it as gospel without providing any evidence to back up the claim.In a rare statement issued by the GCHQ, the agency angrily refuted the accusation.
Recent allegations made by media commentator Judge Andrew Napolitano about GCHQ being asked to conduct wiretapping against the then president-elect are nonsense.
They are utterly ridiculous and should be ignored.
The international incident reportedly forced Spicer and National Security Adviser McMaster to issue a formal apology to the United Kingdom, even though Spicer and Trump have not publicly backed away from the accusation in the United States.The embarrassing incident was rightfully brought up by reporters during a joint press conference on Friday attended by Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.When asked if the White House made a mistake blaming the British, Trump literally blamed his favorite propaganda network for the an accusation his team repeated, thus throwing them under the bus.
Trump also had the audacity to claim his team made no such allegation even though his team openly repeated it as if it somehow proved Trump s original accusation.
We said nothing, Trump said.
All we did was quote a certain very talented legal mind who was the one responsible for saying that on television.
That was a statement made by a very talented lawyer on Fox.
So you shouldn t be talking to me, you should be talking to Fox.
Here s the video via Twitter.Wow.
Trump to Merkel about alleged wiretapping by Obama: At least we have something in common, perhaps.
She appears to be very confused.
pic.twitter.com/la4p9ZJGvo Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 17, 2017Almost immediately, Fox News rushed to reverse the damage as anchor Shep Smith told the world that Napolitano was full of shit.
Fox News cannot confirm Judge Napolitano s commentary, Smith said.
Fox News knows of no evidence of any kind that the now-President of the United States was surveilled at any time in any way.
Full stop.
And then Fox anchor Bret Baier chimed in later in the day by repeating that Napolitano s claim cannot be confirmed.
We love the judge, we love him here at Fox, but the Fox News division was never able to back up those claims and was never reported on this show, Baier reported.While Napolitano was irresponsible for pitching such an accusation, Donald Trump was even more irresponsible by letting Spicer repeat it without any verification of the accuracy of the claim.
All Trump had to do is direct his team to make contact with British intelligence and ask if the claim is true or not.
But Trump failed to do so because he is flailing for anything that could even suggest in the slightest that his accusation against President Obama is true.
But the accusation is clearly false because if Trump really had any proof he would have released it by now.
Even Republican leaders in Congress have confirmed that Trump s claim is a lie.So it looks like the honeymoon may be over between Trump and Fox News.
It s probably safe to say that Fox News will put a leash on what their commentators say about Trump s wiretapping fiasco.
Now we just have to wait and see if Fox News starts to turn on Trump.Featured Image: Scott Olson/Getty Images