Donald Trump s past support of Hillary Clinton came back to bite him on the ass during an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live.During the Wednesday night broadcast, Kimmel introduced presumptive Republican nominee Trump and after briefly chiding him for his taco bowl tweet on Cinco de Mayo proceeded to ask him if he really thought his campaign for the presidency would ever get this far.
When you started all this, I just have to believe that you thought This will be fun, it ll be a four month thing and you never imagined it would go this far.
Is that true?
Kimmel asked.Trump replied that he didn t think his campaign would come out on top so quickly.
He thought there would end up being two conventions with one in July and one in August to determine the GOP nominee.
Trump also claimed that he believed Hillary would have won the Democratic nomination long before now, but said he enjoys watching her.Kimmel then asked Trump if he is enjoying the Hillary/Bernie struggle.
Well I do, Trump said.
And then Trump failed to see the irony as called the battle between to two Democrats nasty and that he hates to see that.
It s getting nasty, Trump continued.
I had no idea it was going to be so nasty.
And you hate that, Kimmel replied.
You don t like that.
Yeah, I hate to see it, Trump answered.
I hate to see it.
Donald Trump s campaign is one of the nastiest in American political history, perhaps only topped by the 1828 Election.At rally after rally, Trump has spewed violent rhetoric, encouraged intimidation, and launched racist and sexist attacks against anyone who opposes him, including Hillary Clinton, whose husband has been the latest target of vicious attacks by Trump.The mentioning of Hillary Clinton, however, gave Kimmel the opportunity to hilariously hit Trump with statements he made about Hillary in 2008 and 2012.
In 2008 you said you thought Hillary would make an excellent president and as recently as 2012 you said you thought she was terrific.'
Kimmel asked Trump to explain why he made those remarks and what has changed.Trump claimed that he says good things about all politicians as a businessman, to which Kimmel replied, So you were full of shit when you said that.
Trump could only shake his head in agreement and smile.Here s the video via YouTube.Kimmel definitely caught Trump with a brilliantly laid out trap.Featured Image: Screenshot