They wouldn t want to remind anyone the actual reason for the holiday season or God forbid, give some crazy Muslim terrorist an excuse to come in and shoot the place up The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Office of Diversity and Inclusion has come up with a list of best practices in order to ensure your inclusive workplace holiday party is not a Christmas party in disguise and that it refrains from being perceived as endorsing religion generally.
The Best Practices for Inclusive Holiday Celebrations in the Workplace holiday resource guide states that the public university does not have an official policy regarding religious and cultural d cor and celebration in the workplace, however, we are fully committed to a diverse, welcoming, and inclusive environment.
In order to ensure your holiday party is not a Christmas party in disguise, the Office of Diversity and Inclusion has come up with a list of ways for supervisors to encourage individuals to celebrate their own religions and cultures without allegedly excluding anyone or even being seen as endorsing religion :Holiday parties and celebrations should celebrate and build upon workplace relationships and team morale with no emphasis on religion or culture.
Ensure your holiday party is not a Christmas party in disguise.Consider having a New Year s party and include d cor and food from multiple religions and cultures.
Use it as an opportunity to reinvigorate individuals for the New Year s goals and priorities.
Supervisors and managers should not as well as, not be perceived as endorsing religion generally or a specific religion.If an individual chooses not to participate in a holiday party or celebration, do not pressure the person to participate.
Participation should be voluntary.If a potluck-style party or celebration is planned, encourage employees to bring food items that reflect their personal religions, cultures, and celebrations.
Use this as an opportunity for individuals to share what they brought and why it is meaningful to them.If sending holiday cards to campus and community partners, send a non-denominational card or token of your gratitude.Holiday parties and celebrations should not play games with religious and cultural themes.
For example, Dreidel or Secret Santa.
If you want to exchange gifts, then refer to it in a general way, such as a practical joke gift exchange or secret gift exchange.D cor selection should be general, not specific to any religion or culture.
Identify specific dates when d cor can be put up and when it must come down.Refreshment selection should be general, not specific to any religion or culture.Most importantly, celebrate your religious and cultural holidays in ways that are respectful and inclusive of our students, your colleagues, and our university.
Via: MRCTV