The popular Christian author Eric Metaxas really puts things in perspective when he explains why sitting home in this election is not an option This question should hardly require an essay, but let s face it: We re living in strange times.
America is in trouble.Over this past year many of Donald Trump s comments have made me almost literally hopping mad.
The hot-mic comments from 2005 are especially horrifying.
Can there be any question we should denounce them with flailing arms and screeching volume?
I must not hang out in the right locker rooms, because if anyone I know said such things I might assault him physically (and repent later).
So yes, many see these comments as a deal breaker.But we have a very knotty and larger problem.
What if the other candidate also has deal breakers?
Even a whole deplorable basketful?
Suddenly things become horribly awkward.
Would God want me simply not to vote?
Is that a serious option?What if not pulling the lever for Mr. Trump effectively means electing someone who has actively enabled sexual predation in her husband before and while he was president?
Won t God hold me responsible for that?
What if she defended a man who raped a 12-year-old and in recalling the case laughed about getting away with it?
Will I be excused from letting this person become president?
What if she used her position as secretary of state to funnel hundreds of millions into her own foundation, much of it from nations that treat women and gay people worse than dogs?
Since these things are true, can I escape responsibility for them by simply not voting?Many say they won t vote because choosing the lesser of two evils is still choosing evil.
But this is sophistry.
Neither candidate is pure evil.
They are human beings.
We cannot escape the uncomfortable obligation to soberly choose between them.
Not voting or voting for a third candidate who cannot win is a rationalization designed more than anything to assuage our consciences.
Yet people in America and abroad depend on voters to make this very difficult choice.Children in the Middle East are forced to watch their fathers drowned in cages by ISIS.
Kids in inner-city America are condemned to lives of poverty, hopelessness and increasing violence.
Shall we sit on our hands and simply trust the least of these to God, as though that were our only option?
Don t we have an obligation to them?For many of us, this is very painful, pulling the lever for someone many think odious.
But please consider this: A vote for Donald Trump is not necessarily a vote for Donald Trump himself.
It is a vote for those who will be affected by the results of this election.
Not to vote is to vote.
God will not hold us guiltless.For entire article: WSJMr.
Metaxas, host of the nationally syndicated Eric Metaxas Show, is the author of If You Can Keep It: The Forgotten Promise of American Liberty (Viking, 2016).