There s a petition on Change.org going around to stop Trump from becoming President, and it has made history, not just for its nature, but because it s the most popular ever seen.
At 4.7 million signatures and counting, it s over 80 percent of the way to its goal, and the number of signatories just keeps growing.The second most popular petition on Change.org was to stop a dog meat festival, and had two million fewer signatures.
That goes to show the Electoral College that a lot of people are looking for any way imaginable to stop Trump from actually getting inaugurated on Jan. 20, 2017.This petition is called Electoral College: Make Hillary Clinton President, and very likely won t work, if for no other reason than Republican electors just will not cast their votes for her.
That s despite a popular vote lead of over two million, which is a bigger margin and several past presidents margins of victory.
They should make her president based on that, but they ve been conditioned to hate her guts.
So no go there, sadly.However, we may not need the biggest petition in history to work exactly as planned, because there s a growing coalition of faithless electors who won t vote for Trump.
Several Democratic electors have gotten together in a mad dash to convince enough other electors to vote against Trump before the Dec. 19 deadline.
They re calling themselves Hamilton Electors after Alexander Hamilton.At least two Republican electors from Texas have also declared that they can t vote for Trump.
One, Christopher Suprun, penned an op-ed in The New York Times about all the reasons he can t vote for Trump.
He s also encouraging his fellow electors to reject Trump and settle on someone like John Kasich.
Kasich isn t great, but compared to Trump, he d be the best president ever.Perhaps this petition has gotten the attention of some other electors, and they re planning on defecting, too.
The sheer magnitude of this petition should send a clear message to them that the people want them to defect.
Here s hoping they take a good, long look at what they re doing and make their decisions for the good of the country.Featured image by Mark Makela/Getty Images