What do you think?
Do you agree with Rick Santorum, or should we allow illegal aliens to enjoy all of the same benefits as American citizens simply because they or their parents made it across our US border without getting caught?Former Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) can t speak to whether President-elect Donald Trump plans to deport undocumented immigrants en masse beginning next year, but he has made one thing clear: People who came to the U.S. illegally as children, also known as Dreamers, should just leave the U.S. if they re worried about their immigration status.Elizabeth Vilchis, a mechanical engineer who said she came to the U.S. from Mexico when she was 7 years old, asked Santorum about Trump s immigration plans on Tuesday night during a town hall event with CNN s Van Jones.
She asked Santorum how he would advise her to plan for her future.He began his reply by talking about his father, who left Mussolini s Italy to come to the U.S. when he was 7 years old even though, Santorum said, he wasn t allowed to come because of the immigration laws at the time.
Then he began to address Vilchis specifically.
What most people in America feel is that you ve been given a tremendous benefit by being here in this country, Santorum said, adding that he imagined she wouldn t have had to opportunities to accomplish what you have in her country of origin.
My final point is that you have the ability to go to any other country right now and apply those wares, and be successful, and reapply to come back to America, Santorum added.
Go and make the world a better place.
CNN contributor Ana Navarro butted in.
First of all, this is your country, she said.
No matter what he says, no matter what anybody else says, this is your country.
That s not what the law says, Santorum replied.
As much as I m sympathetic to you, you should recognize the gift that America has given you and that you can give to the world.
HP@Jorgesays @RickSantorum I'll chip in good money to send Santorum to another country.
Any country.
Cindy Hargest (@CindyHargest) December 7, 2016No decent country would take him.
Lyle (@lyledal) December 7, 2016This broke my heart.
"You got your education, now get out."
This woman is as American as you Rick.
Dave Harrell (@daveharrell16) December 7, 2016Send disgusting @RickSantorum back to Italy.
iburl (@iburl) December 7, 2016