When you re running for office, especially when you re running for President of the United States, you re going to say and do whatever is necessary to get votes to put you into office.
However, part of your job as a candidate is to also make sure you are not only holding yourself accountable for the things that you say, but also for what the people in your supporting crowds are saying.
For instance, when John McCain stood up for Barack Obama back in the 2008 election when one of his supporters was saying awful things about the then senator.It seems Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla) has yet to learn that very important lesson, and it may come back to haunt him.
At a recent campaign event in North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, Rubio was addressing the crowd and telling everyone that if he were to become president he would never close down the military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
It was after these remarks that a person in the crowd decided to shout, WATERBOARD HILLARY!
Which was a clear reference to both the torture that occurred at Guantanamo as well as how some people would like to harm and torture former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.Now, Rubio, clearly hearing what had been said because he chuckled, decided to just laugh it off and ignore it.
He knew it was bad, because he said he didn t want to make a deal of it as the media was there to record everything.
And record they did.
They recorded Rubio shrugging the entire thing off instead of asking the man not to say such a terrible thing.
Which, in all honestly, would ve made Rubio look like a better human being.
However, knowing jerks like Donald Trump are leading in the polls after not only allowing horrible things to be said, but saying horrible things himself, Rubio probably figures his base will enjoy these sort of shenanigans.Needless to say, Rubio shrugging off a call for torture on a former First Lady and Secretary of State as well as a current candidate for president isn t at all surprising, but it doesn t make it any less appalling.Here s the video: Video/Featured image: CNN