These videos will shock you.
When you think of Sweden, do you think of Muslim gangs roving the streets in no-go zones lobbing hand grenades at warring migrant tribes?
Do you think of Muslim men raping so many Swedish women, girls, men and boys, that it has now earned the designation as the rape capitol of the world?
Do you think of children being taken from their homes for the crime of being homeschooled by their parents?
Do you think of a nation of spoiled everyone gets a trophy children?
Do you envision a nation where parenting your children is now considered taboo?
Sweden can be proud today to have shed its long standing reputation as the most boring country in the world .
The Nordic state finds itself in the grip of a terrifying crime wave instead, which even new Swedes describe as like being back in Syria .Grenade attacks in multicultural paradise Malm are now so commonplace the English-speaking media has all but stopped bothering to report them.
Compounding the apparent disinterest in the descent of beautiful, historic Malm into a third-world ghetto where native Swedes are very nearly in the minority, is a striking dearth of facts about what is actually going on there.Did you know that it s ILLEGAL to home school your child in Sweden?
So much for tolerance.
You must learn what the state teaches you or you will be severely punished.It s been called one of the worst cases of government abuse ever committed against a home schooling family: the abduction by Swedish authorities of Domenic Johansson, a happy, healthy, 7-year-old boy taken from his parents Christer and Annie Johansson in 2009 as they waited to leave Sweden on a flight to India.After the abduction, the Johanssons story spread quickly on the Internet.But three years later, Domenic is still being kept from his parents, and Swedish authorities keep finding new reasons for why the child can t go home.
This is about the most fundamental right you have.
You have the right to your own children, or you should have, Christer told CBN News during the first television interview he and his wife have given since their only child s abduction.In 2008, Christer and Annie were making plans to leave Sweden for humanitarian work in Annie s native India.They decided it would be best for Domenic to be home-schooled during the final months before their departure, rather than enroll him in public school.Christer says Sweden s Ministry of Education told him they could home-school, but local officials levied steep fines and threatened the couple to discourage them from doing so.Then, as the parents sat on a plane at Stockholm airport for their scheduled trip to India, police came aboard and took Domenic away.
They took Domenic from the plane, Christer recalled.
Then he threw up until they took him to ER.
That s how severe the trauma is.
If someone throws up so you have to take him to the hospital, that s severe.
I have no clue what went on, Annie added.
There was just a stampede.
My child had no clue, and I have no clue still what s going on.
I can just hear the screams of my child all the time.
Sweden s liberal approach to parenting has bred a nation of ill-mannered brats, a leading expert has warned in a new book which calls on parents to seize back control of their families.
David Eberhard, who was a prominent psychiatrist before becoming a writer, warns in his new book, How Children Took Power, that Swedish parents are now unwilling to discipline their children in any way.
Swedes in 1979 became the first to adopt a total smacking ban.
We live in a culture where so-called experts say that children are competent and the conclusion is that children should decide what to eat, what to wear, and when to go to bed, he said.
If you have a dinner party, they never sit quietly.
They interrupt.
They re always in the centre, and the problem is that when they become young adults, they take with them the expectation that everything is centred around them, which makes them very disappointed.
He points to Sweden s growing truancy rates, a rise in anxiety disorders, and the country s declining performance in international educational league tables, as the tangible results of its liberal parenting approach.
They don t say thank you.
They don t open doors.
If you see them on the subway, they don t stand up for elderly people or pregnant women.
Stricter parenting is a taboo in Sweden, let alone advocating a return to smacking, a ban on which he believes has more to do with ideology than scientific evidence.
It s very difficult to contradict.
If you say I m putting forward a stricter way, then people think you re an idiot.
Can you say #BlackLivesMatter movement?