This announcement seems to indicate that the Obama regime already knows Hillary is going to be walking away unscathed from the Benghazi hearings tomorrow Fox News host Andrea Tantaros is pretty sure that Vice President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that he will not run for president as part of an administration-wide plan to cover up the Benghazi scandal.During a discussion about Biden s decision not to enter the Democratic presidential primary on Outnumbered, Tantaros said that the timing of Biden s announcement was suspicious.
But when you look at the two scandals that we re facing, that all eyes are going to be on tomorrow, Benghazi, and the email scandal these are administration-wide scandals.
All three of them, President Obama, Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton were there that night.
This is their scandal as well, she said.
This email scandal is their scandal as well.
There is no way, there is no chance, that Joe Biden, and President Obama, and their national security team did not know that she was using a private server, breaking the law.
They are all in on this, and they are circling the wagons.
I cannot stress this enough.
This goes all the way to the West Wing, both Benghazi, and the email scandal, and you re watching it play out exactly today.
The timing is not a coincidence!
Tantaros continued.John Bolton, who served as the U.S. ambassador to the U.N. under President George W. Bush, agreed with Tantaros.
This is an administration-wide problem because it wasn t just Hillary Clinton s failure on Sept. 11, 2012, it was the failure of the administration s world view, Bolton said.
I really think this was careful political planning.
I think they knew today was the right day to do it.
Watch Joe the Clown s announcement here:Conservatives sometimes cry distraction when breaking news interrupts coverage of a scandal that Republicans are obsessing over.
In particular, conservatives often try their hardest to link any news back to Benghazi, a favorite Obama administration scandal.Via: TMP