On August 15, 2017, Jim Murren, CEO of MGM which owns Mandalay Bay Casino and Resort, came out with a bold statement of support for Hillary Clinton s presidential campaign: As a lifelong registered Republican, I ve crossed the aisle only a few times in elections past, and almost never at the presidential level.
Each time, it was a gut-wrenching decision.But this year it s an easy choice.
I m going to put my country ahead of my party by voting for Hillary Clinton and by making my first-ever public endorsement of a presidential candidate.
Breaking from investigative reporter Laura Loomer*: EXCLUSIVE: In this internal memo I have obtained, Jim Murren, the CEO of MGM resorts which owns Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino (where Stephen Paddock committed his massacre) asked employees to donate to CAIR, a documented terrorist organization, two months ago.Murren declared that he d match all donations from his employees to CAIR, and radical left-wing anti -Trump groups like Southern Poverty Law Center and ADL Anti-Defamation League.
His wife, Heather Murren also worked for the Obama administration on Obama s Commission for Enhancing National Cybersecurity in 2016.When this memo first came out from the MGM CEO to his employees, Wayne Allen Root wrote in the Townhall publication about his disgust for a CEO of a major company asking his employees to donate to these radical groups, many of which, are in direct conflict with conservative and Christian values.Why is the MGM CEO asking his employees to contribute to radical, left-wing organizations?
Why did the killer choose to stay in the Mandalay Casino?
Why is no one reporting about the fact that the wife of the MGM CEO worked for Obama on his Commission for Enhancing National Cybersecurity only one year ago?What about the fact that receipts that allegedly came from the Mandalay Casino Resort show that there were 2 GUESTS in the room with the shooter and that he actually checked in one day before the date of check-in that s being reported.Again, more from investigative journalist Laura Loomer*:BREAKING: Copies of receipts from the Las Vegas shooter s room service were posted by Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino room service employee Tony Hernandez Armenta.
The receipts confirm my previous reporting that Stephen Paddock checked into the resort prior to Sept. 28.
The receipts are dated Sept. 27, 2017, and indicate that there were 2 GUESTS inside the room at the time of service.
My source who works at the Mandalay told me Paddock s reservation began on Sept. 25, all of which proves that Las Vegas law enforcement and FBI aren t providing accurate information to the public.
All of a sudden, there s been a shift in the investigation.
There seems to be a new focus on radicalization of the shooter.Las Vegas Sheriff Lombardo is now suggesting that the shooter was radicalized and that they are attempting to uncover the source of his radicalization:BREAKING: Sheriff Lombardo suggests shooter was "radicalized" & authorities attempting to uncover source.
pic.twitter.com/HtoIxRhvvA Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) October 3, 2017*Laura Loomer is an independent journalist and conservative activist.
She was formerly a reporter for Rebel Media until she resigned in September of 2016.
Loomer can be found on Twitter by clicking HERE.