There are people in this world who are willfully ignorant, or just unabashedly uninformed and out of touch with reality.
Many of these people are in positions of great wealth and power who really don t have to deal with the everyday problems that life may throw at those who are not at the same level as they are.
One of these people is billionaire Stephen Schwarzman, the Chairman and CEO of Blackstone Group, and investment firm currently with $333 billion in assets and revenues of $7.6 billion.
Schwarzman himself is worth $9.3 billion, and was listed #62 on Forbes list of most powerful people in 2015.Schwarzman is so out of touch and greedy that he actually wants poor people to pay more in taxes and make sure rich people pay less, even going after Warren Buffett for saying the rich should pay more.
He seems to be the living embodiment of Ebenezer Scrooge.So, it wasn t at all surprising that during an interview with Bloomberg, Schwarzman had absolutely no clue why people are so upset and angry at our current economic structure, and why it s the centerpiece of many political debates.The oblivious billionaire stated: What s remarkable is the amount of anger.
Whether it s on the Republican side, or the Democratic side.
Bernie Sanders to me is almost more stunning than some of the stuff going on on the Republican side.
How is that happening?
Why is that happening?
What is the vein in America that is being tapped into across parties that s made people so unhappy?
Here s some advice for Schwarzman: walk into one of your many bathrooms, close the door, walk up to the mirror, and stare at the face you see.
It will be there that he will see what is the vein in America that has made people so greatly unhappy.
Furthermore, the fact that he doesn t see himself, his cronies, and his business practices as the problem is yet another issue in and of itself.
The first step to solving a problem is realizing there is a problem, even if you are the problem.If you want to know why people are so unhappy, Schwarzman, listen.
Listen to the anger and frustration in people s voices who work endless hours to barely make ends meet.
Listen to the mother s who have trouble feeding their children because corporate lobbyists push for more tax breaks and subsidies while their paid for legislators also push to cut food assistance programs.
Listen to the countless people who just want to make a living wage while you sit atop billions of dollars and refuse to recognize the reality of the working class.
Listen, Schwarzman.
Listen.
It will be there where you could finally figure out why people are so unhappy.
And why people are rising up to fight greed and injustice where it stands.
Video: Bloomberg Featured image: Flickr/Screengrab