In case you have been living under a rock, we recently learned that Hillary Clinton is human through a series of reports about That One Time She Coughed and The Time She Got Pneumonia.
Yes, somehow anytime Clinton gets the sniffles, the Right pounces on it, using anything and everything they can to push absolutely bonkers conspiracy theories about the former Secretary of State s health (she s on her deathbed, don tchaknow).During an interview with ACB s Sarina Fazan Wednesday, the reporter asked Clinton perhaps one of the dumbest f*cking questions she has been asked regarding her health: if she would undergo neurocognitive tests to appease inflated, only-existing-on-Trump s-side-of-the-aisle concerns about whether or not her presidency will be like a four-year-long edition of Weekend at Bernie s.Hillary just laughed in her face.
I m very sorry I got pneumonia, I m glad antibiotics took care of it, and that s behind us now, the former Secretary of State said, somehow managing to avoid knocking the reporter for starting off by claiming 9/11 was last week.
Clinton explained that her health meets and exceeds the standards anyone else running for office has met, but Fazan was all so, ummmm, you gonna take those tests?
There s no need for that, Clinton said firmly, surely wondering how the f*ck this woman got hired in the first place.
The information is very clear.
Hillary wasn t the only person laughing at Fazan, who also beat the dead horse that is the email scandal.
Twitter lit up with people mocking the reporter for having the gall to waste time during an exclusive interview badgering the 2016 Democratic nominee about her health:@hannahfc and you are reporting this nonsense as if it is legitimate.
Is this why you became a journalist?
@danmericaCNN @abcactionnews (((David Galiel:-))) (@davidgaliel) September 22, 2016@Women4Trump @hannahfc @dmartosko @abcactionnews her career needs to die a hideous death Naked Punditry (@NakedPundit) September 22, 2016@hannahfc @abcactionnews oh jesus christ Chris (@hugetinymistake) September 22, 2016@hannahfc @danmericaCNN @abcactionnews No wonder media has an even higher negative rating than Trump these days.
What dumb question!
Violetta Argueta (@Vva10967) September 22, 2016@hannahfc @danmericaCNN @abcactionnews Wanna ask her if she covered up benghazi next?
Any other conspiracy theories yall wanna fan flames of P. Williamson (@PWilliamson2006) September 22, 2016@hannahfc @albamonica @abcactionnews Has this reporter asked Trump if he'll undergo psychological tests?
At least it's OBVIOUS he needs to.
Peggy Holtman (@holtmapa) September 22, 2016@hannahfc @danmericaCNN @abcactionnews Sarina who (?)
had the fucking you asked her WHAT???
Go back to school.
Find a new career.
(((bartnbeka))) (@bartnbeka) September 22, 2016@SarinaFazanWFTS Well at least people are talking about you for awhile even if it's for being a terrible journalist.
Enjoy it while it lasts mattydean (@mattydean) September 22, 2016As some pointed out to this simpleton, Hillary released her medical records just after the 9/11 anniversary, which was more than a week ago.
She was diagnosed with a mild, non-contagious bacterial pneumonia, was given antibiotics, and had to practically be tied down to keep her from rushing back out on the campaign trail because she has traditionally insisted on being f*cking Superwoman.What s next?
Gonna ask her about Benghazi?
Maybe she knows where Obama s real birth certificate is hidden.
Could she have some inside information on a second gunman involved in the JFK assassination?
Quit your job, Sarina.
Seriously.Featured image via screen capture