On Thursday, New Hampshire s Federal Elections Commission (FEC) called on President Trump to give proof of voter fraud, after he reportedly made further claims in a meeting with senators.Trump reportedly blamed voter fraud for why both he and former Sen. Kelly Ayotte (N.H.) lost in New Hampshire last November during a recent meeting with a bipartisan group of senators.
The scheme the President of the United States alleges would constitute thousands of felony criminal offenses under New Hampshire law, Commissioner Ellen Weintraub said in a statement Friday.
The President has issued an extraordinarily serious and specific charge, added Weintraub, who is a Democrat but was appointed by former President George W. Bush in 2002.
Allegations of this magnitude cannot be ignored.
I therefore call upon President Trump to immediately share his evidence with the public and with the appropriate law-enforcement authorities so that his allegations may be investigated promptly and thoroughly.
The HillDemocrat sycophant George Stephanopoulos went after Trump s senior policy advisor Steven Miller on ABC s This Week show, DEMANDING he show evidence of voter fraud in New Hampshire as Trump claimed only days earlier.
This is the media s newest Trump witch hunt.
Given the willingness of both parties and the media to ignore massive voter fraud issues across America, one has to wonder if Trump continues to poke this fire on purpose, forcing the serious issue of voter to be addressed and eventually fixed.
Careful what you ask for Georgie you just may get it, and it s not likely going to benefit your party THIS IS AWESOME!
Stephen Miller does not back down from the widely known FACT that there's massive VOTER FRAUD!pic.twitter.com/QTcvSqIr67 Boston Bobblehead (@DBloom451) February 12, 2017Proof that dead people receive ballots in NH:Pay up, dude.
NH elections officials welcome out-of-staters with open arms @JamesOKeefeIII @FergusCullen pic.twitter.com/Aj9rT1AYcs Project Veritas (@Project_Veritas) February 11, 2017