Ted Cruz just keeps proving that he does not legitimately want to be president at every chance he gets.
The latest dumbassery from his campaign came when his national security advisor Frank Gaffney, started lobbying members of Congress to refuse to meet with the people participating in the National Muslim Advocates Day.NMAD is an event where Muslim-Americans across the nation go to Washington, D.C. to meet with their representatives in order to voice opinions on public policy, and to also make attempts at outreach from the Muslim-American community to help bridge some of the cultural gaps that have developed in America.Seems pretty reasonable, right?
We keep hearing how Muslims don t do enough to combat the threat of Islamic extremism in the United States from literally every Republican.
However, when Republicans get their chance to meet with Muslims and do something productive, they turn coward, run and hide.And people say they hate us for our freedom.
Yeah right The U.S. Council of Muslim Organizations released the following statement, regarding Cruz s outright cowardice of both him and his campaign staff in meeting with them:This evening, representatives of the US Council of Muslim Organizations (USCMO), a coalition of leading national and local American Muslim groups, will hold a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., to condemn the refusal of GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) and his congressional staff to meet with Muslim constituents during today s second National Muslim Advocacy Day on Capitol Hill.Some 330 Muslim delegates from 28 states are meeting with a third of the House of Representatives and almost half of the Senate.Earlier today, 14 Texas Muslim delegates to the National Muslim Advocacy Day on Capitol Hill tried to meet with either Sen. Cruz or a member of his congressional staff, but were told no one would meet with them.
The delegates had tried to arrange a meeting for several weeks prior to today s event.Source: Right Wing WatchSo, if Ted and his entire campaign parade of idiots are too frightened to actually meet with some regular Americans who happen to be Muslim, how will they EVER find the courage to fight ISIS?
It s a question that needs an answer.Ted Cruz can t stop reminding us how he loves religious freedom and the Constitution.
However, he condemns people for their choice of religion and denies them their right to petition their government, which just happens to be in the Constitution.
It really makes you wonder if Ted even understands that he s running for president and not on a reality show.When Trump wins the nomination, and Republicans act surprised, they can look at their golden boy Cruz and remember they have nobody to blame but themselves for losing 2016.Listen to the Cruz campaign explain why America would be insane to vote for him below:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/258517130 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /] Featured image via Spencer Platt / Getty