The Oakland Raiders have been in the news quite a bit lately, and unfortunately, for NFL football fans, it has little to do with football, and everything to do with an anti-cop social justice movement, and a certain player s bad behavior.
The Raiders team made the news when most of the members of the team kneeled for the national anthem.
On October 1, 2017, running back Marshawn Lynch entered the Sports Authority stadium wearing an Everybody vs Trump t-shirt before the Oakland Raiders game against the Denver Broncos.
Lynch then sat during the playing of the national anthem.
While Lynch sat for the October 1st game, most of his teammates knelt.Raiders RB Marshawn Lynch wearing an "Everybody vs Trump" T-shirt: pic.twitter.com/7aiCUbjLUD Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 1, 2017According to Miko Grimes, wife of Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Brent Grimes, the Oakland Raiders offensive line actually stood down and allowed Derek Carr to get hurt because he didn t agree with, nor did he join the team s anthem protests.Here is the play Miko Grimes was referring to when Oakland Raiders quarterback Dereck Carr was hit in the back while his offensive line allegedly stood by and watched, as a punishment for not joining the team in their Black Lives Matter-inspired protest of our flag:Derek Carr suffers back injury.
#Raiders pic.twitter.com/kqDhq9cCmY Peter Joe (@RaiderPosts) October 1, 2017Miko Grimes made an appearance on The Breakfast Club where she emphatically claimed the star quarterback s views on the anthem protests led to his offensive line allowing him to get crushed.
A lot of people don t know, but the reason Derek Carr got injured was because the Raiders offensive line allowed him to get injured, Miko explained as she launched into her story.
Daily CallerWatch Grimes incredible allegation about how the Raiders allowed their quarterback to be injured as a sick payback because he was against his team s anti-cop social justice movement.
Grimes was quick to point out that the Oakland Raiders has the only all-black offensive line in the NFL.
She also mentioned that they had a fight in the locker room prior to the game and before the players went out to play the game that Carr was injured in, the players already had a plan in place to ensure that he would be left unprotected..@iHeartMiko shares little know allegation about Derek Carr's injury.
#TheBreakfastClub pic.twitter.com/7XF54oh3U7 REVOLT TV (@RevoltTV) November 7, 2017On October 20, 2017, Oakland Raiders running back and national anthem kneeler, Marshawn Lynch, was ejected after he left the sidelines to physically attack a referee with whom he disagreed with.