Alabama House Speaker Mike Hubbard used his position in the people s chamber to screw the people over.
Now he s going to prison for it.On Friday, a jury convicted Hubbard on 12 counts of ethics violations two years after he was first indicted.
He had continued to serve as the Speaker of the House in the Alabama state legislature during those two years but his political career is over.According to AL.com, Hubbard was convicted of 12 out of 23 charges which include:Voting on legislation with a conflict of interest that would benefit American Pharmacy Cooperative Inc., a consulting client.Receiving money from a principal, American Pharmacy Cooperative Inc., through a consulting contract.Receiving money from a principal, Edgenuity, through a consulting contract.Using office for personal gain through a consulting contract with Capitol Cups, a business owned by Robert Abrams.Lobbying the state Department of Commerce for consulting client Robert Abrams.Lobbying the governor s office for consulting client Robert Abrams.Using state personnel to benefit consulting client Robert Abrams.Soliciting and receiving money from a principal, former Business Council of Alabama Chairman Will Brooke, a $150,000 investment in Craftmaster Printers.Soliciting and receiving money from a principal, James Holbrook/Sterne Agee, a $150,000 investment in Craftmaster Printers.Soliciting and receiving money from a principal, Great Southern Wood President Jimmy Rane, a $150,000 investment in Craftmaster Printers.Soliciting and receiving money from a principal, Hoar Construction President Robert Burton, a $150,000 investment in Craftmaster Printers.Soliciting and receiving a thing of value from a principal, former BCA Chairman Will Brooke, help obtaining clients for Auburn Network and financial advice for Craftmaster Printers.Hubbard faces up to 20 years in prison for each count and, needless to say, he is going to appeal the verdict.But Attorney General Luther Strange is confident the case was put together so well that getting the decision overturned will be an uphill battle.
This is a good day for the rule of law in our state, Strange said in a statement.
This kind of result would never have been achieved had our office not put together the finest public corruption unit in the country.
I m very proud of their work.
This should send a clear message that in Alabama we hold public officials accountable for their actions.
Here s video of prosecutors discussing the verdict via YouTube.Hubbard isn t the only serving Republican official in Alabama dealing with a major scandal.
Governor Robert Bentley has been dealing with his own personal scandal for engaging in an extramarital affair with a female staffer and lying about it.
An impeachment resolution has been filed and hearings begin this month.
The Alabama Republican Parry sure has been rocked by scandal this year.
First the House Speaker, now the Governor.Featured Image: Screenshot