Lee Young, owner of Hitman Firearms posted this incredible story to his Facebook page.
His story is a perfect example of a country who has gone so far left with their political correctness, that many of us barely recognize it anymore.
Kudos to Lee for not only standing up for this veteran, but for taking the time to document this insane double standard.
People everywhere need to do what Lee has done.
If you see something, say something.
And don t be afraid to tell your fellow Americans what you are witnessing.
We must all come together to stop this madness.From Lee Young s Facebook page:Share if this bothers you as much as it did me ..Okemos, MichiganIt s long but I promise it s worth the read.No better way to make my blood boil!So for the past however long I can remember there has been a older gentleman by the name of Val who is a greeter at Walmart.
This man is a Veteran and very proud to be.
You don t need to know him or even speak to him, although I thank him for his service every time I see him, because he illustrates his pride through the highly decorated Veteran baseball cap he wears or .used to wear.One day I as I walked in I noticed a bright blue Walmart hat on his head with all the military pins that once adorned his wore out faded military cap and I asked him about it.
We both had tears in our eyes as I wished him a blessed day and shook his hand before I left.
His reply was simple and full of hurt, corporate will not allow me to wear that hat anymore while on the clock, because it goes against the dress code .I was so furious that I demanded to talk to a manager that day and I m sure she will never forget my face or the angry words that I shared with her.
Since then I try not to ever shop at Walmart unless there is no other choice.Today was one of them days that I needed something and stopped into the Okemos Walmart.
As I m standing in line to pay this woman in her Walmart vest steps into line behind me and immediately I was outraged!
So one of our own who signed his life away to protect our freedoms and homeland cannot wear his simple old hat but this woman can wear a headscarf proclaiming her love of the Muslim culture and her dedication to Allah!?
Kiss my ass Walmart!!!
!HERE is the link to his Facebook page