Sometimes you could wonder if some of the people running for the Republican nomination for president are actually serious.
When people like Donald Trump and Ted Cruz are leading the pack two men who if not in positions of power would be considered certifiably crazy are able to say the darndest things and get away with it, it makes one wonder if they re stupid, or if the people they re convincing have the mental capacity of a stone.While at a campaign event on Friday, Ted Cruz invited his prized endorser Duck Dynasty star and bigot extraordinaire Phil Robertson to speak.
Cruz also, in a lame attempt at humor (sadism?
), decided that if he were to be president he may name Robertson as Ambassador to the United Nations.
This suggestion was probably in jest, but really, who knows anymore.When talking about Robertson, Cruz says: You know there s a reason he terrifies the mainstream media.
He says the things you re not supposed to say.
He actually remembers who we are as Americans and just speaks it with a joy, not with an anger, not with a hatred, with a joy in who we are.
Then after saying he d name Robertson to the coveted position of UN Ambassador, he said: How much would you pay to see the Russian ambassador s face when Phil says, What is wrong with you people?'
Okay, here s the thing: Russia would probably really like Robertson because they have the same stance on homosexuality.
So, who knows, maybe it would be a budding bromance.If Robertson s views are who we are as Americans then, quite frankly, we re up shits creek without a paddle.
Most folks who admire common sense and decency for all humans regardless of race, gender of sexual orientation would tend to disagree with the horrendous statements both Robertson and Cruz regularly state.However, it is not at all surprising that Cruz would pander to his idiot base of voters with such a moronic suggestion as Robertson at the UN.
His pandering knows no bounds, as was evident when he went full camo in Robertson s official endorsement of him.Needless to say, this is something we should not fret over, because Ted Cruz will not be president if the American voters have anything to say about it.Featured image via flickr