Changing the name of something doesn t change the TRUTH of what it is female genital mutilation is the name used for the secretive practice in the Muslim world of making sure young girls never have a chance to feel sexual pleasure.
It is a horrific practice of destroying the genitals of a girl to make sure she isn t promiscuous.
A doctor in Michigan was doing this under the radar on as many as 100 girls.
We cannot accept this as a religious and cultural right as the lawyers for this doctor are trying to do.
Freedom of religion doesn t include the criminal act of mutilating a woman s genitals.
This is what the lawyer said to defend this horrible practice: The defense has argued that the Attars did not engage in any criminal act and that the procedure at issue is a protected religious rite-of-passage that involves no cutting, but rather a ***scraping of genital membrane.
They also argued the Attars are not a danger to the society and have no reason or desire to flee, convincing U.S. District Judge Bernard Friedman to release them on bond.
***The scraping comment is a lie.
The girls were looked over by a doctor who said the injuries were far worse that first thought.Here s the latest:A federal prosecutor dropped a bombshell in court Wednesday, telling a federal judge that the government estimates that as many as 100 girls may have had their genitals cut at the hands of a local doctor and her cohorts.Assistant U.S. Attorney Sara Woodward disclosed the information while trying to convince a judge to keep a doctor and his wife locked up in the historic case.
It involves allegations that two Minnesota girls had their genitals cut at a Livonia clinic in February as part of a religious rite of passage and were told to keep what happened a secret.
Due to the secretive nature of this procedure, we are unlikely to ever know how many children were cut by Dr. (Jumana) Nagarwala, Woodward said, referring to the lead defendant in the case, later adding, The Minnesota victims were not the first victims.
Read more: DFP