The Donald Trump administration is beginning to represent an 80s horror film the leak is coming from inside the (White) House and at least one is coming from one of Trump s most trusted people, Kellyanne Conway.According to CNN as told to them by trusted sources, Conway is trying to throw White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer under the bus.Spicer, who, more than even Conway, is the public face of the Trump administration, has become a national laughing stock, especially after being played (far too accurately) by Melissa McCarthy on Saturday Night Live.The narrative is that Trump is unhappy with Spicer and that the fact that he was so easily played by a woman shows him as weak.
Of course, there s also the fact that the media absolutely hates the guy who often berates them and pretty much always lies.
Could it be, though, that the rumors of Spicer s demise are premature and that it s all a plot by Conway to rid her of at least one of the people she s always having to defend.So where is the narrative coming from?
Spicer declined to comment on the record for this article, but Bannon and Priebus dismissed the leaks about his fate as scuttlebutt from lower level staff.
Or maybe the media, the opposition party was just making it up, Bannon said.Many people sympathetic to Spicer in and out of the White House believe otherwise.
Five of these sources think the person behind the leaks is Kellyanne Conway, Trump s ever-visible White House counselor.
Though they offer no hard evidence, they say Conway is trying to offload blame for administration setbacks on Spicer to prove she is the more effective public advocate and earn a lasting place in the President s inner circle.
She s clearly guiding a press narrative that he s not up for the job, and that they re reviewing other candidates, one GOP strategist said.
It s becoming abundantly clear that Kellyanne is making Sean s job impossible.
Source: CNNConway denies all of this, saying that Sean has my full support.
The White House says the same of Spicer.Of course, the Trump administration would be far from the first to put a public happy face on a tumultuous situation, but there are several reasons to believe that Spicer might be on the way out, but the only one that really matters is that Spicer is embarrassing an already teetering on the edge presidency.
In other words, it s likely that the leaks are right Spicer s days are numbered.
Whether or not that comes from Conway is another question.
However, if she s leaking this, it means the loyalty is eroding and bigger leaks could be in her future.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images