Too bad for the gay pastor that Whole Foods had him dead center on their surveillance cameras.
Is it just my imagination or do gays seem to have it out for bakeries?
On Tuesday, the Austin Statesman reported that Whole Foods filed a lawsuit against Jordan Brown, an openly gay pastor who claimed that an anti-gay slur was placed on a cake he ordered.
The cake was supposed to read Love Wins, but Jordan claimed a slur was added to the cake s decoration.https://youtu.be/p972qntg1qMWhole Foods, however, said that surveillance video shows otherwise.
Brown filed a lawsuit against Whole Foods, but the company fired back, accusing Brown of making a fraudulent claim.Look at labels.
It's at bottom in hoax video.
But look at how checker scans.
It's on top.
https://t.co/aiE0WVBokV pic.twitter.com/MbLU6jJsSJ Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) April 19, 2016Here s the surveillance video from Whole Foods.
The gay pastor can be seen in the right corner in an orange (salmon) shirt: According to Whole Foods, Brown intentionally, knowingly and falsely accused Whole Foods and its employees of writing the homophobic slur on a custom made cake that he ordered from WFM s Lamar Store in Austin The company also said Brown acted with malice, and he has damaged the reputation and business of WFM.
If you look closely, it appears the piping does not match:@Cernovich @mirriam71 @JenniL_KVUE Clearly not same icing tip used to create F-A-G as rest of letters.
Much finer.
Had to do double pass.
Hillary for Prison (@HRC4Prison) April 18, 2016The company further said that a bakery team member wrote only Love Wins at the top of the cake according to Brown s request.
This, Whole Foods added, was visible through the clear portion of the packaging.
That s exactly how the cake was packaged and sold at the store, the company added.
Whole Foods Market has a strict policy that prohibits team members from accepting or designing bakery orders that include language or images that are offensive.
Worse yet, Whole Foods said the employee involved is a member of the local LGBTQ community.
We stand behind our bakery team member, who is part of the LGBTQ community, and we appreciate the team members and shoppers who recognize that this claim is completely false and directly contradicts Whole Foods Market s inclusive culture, which celebrates diversity, the company said.The video also indicates that Brown removed and replaced the UPC label on the packaging.
According to Whole Foods, the label was originally on top of the box.
Brown s video, however, showed it on the bottom and the side of the box.Brown s lawsuit seeks a jury trial, damages and monetary relief for mental anguish he allegedly suffered, but it seems his anguish is just beginning.
The company is seeking at least $100,000 in damages from Brown.
Via: Examiner