Donald Trump s ridiculous stunt on Thursday has garnered him quite a bit of attention positive from the Stupid Part of America, and negative from everyone who is able to figure out how to operate a spoon without adult guidance.
In an effort to hide the fact that he is scared of Fox News Megyn Kelly, Trump pretended to care about our nation s soldiers for an evening with a fundraiser campaign event he scheduled in opposition to the debate he elected to skip.Of course, veterans groups practically climbed all over each other to inform The Donald that the money would not be accepted, and donations were made to his Foundation rather than actual veterans.
This is a problem, of course, because barely 1 percent of his Foundation s donations are given to Vets.
On Friday, CNN s Jim Sciutto confronted Trump spokeswoman Katrina Pierson about the donations specifically, which Veterans groups would be receiving the millions of dollars in donations Trump had gathered for the Donald J. Trump Foundation.
The money is going to a Trump organization now.
Name one veterans organization that has agreed to accept that money, Sciutto said.
Pierson explained that the money would be spread across the country to Veterans groups, aside from those who refuse to accept it.
However, Sciutto didn t let her slide with that answer, asking her to name a single organization that has agreed to accept the money.
I m sorry, I can t hear you, Pierson s replied as the gerbils that perform her basic brain functions struggled to spin the wheel fast enough to enable the bullshit circuits in her head to connect.
Pierson said there might be a list on Trump s website, but no such list exists.
There is simply a donation form.Realizing that he was not going to get a straight answer, Sciutto moved on to another issue: Pierson s downright insane Twitter account.
Pierson has previously complained that there are not enough pure breeds left in politics as she took a stab at Obama, who she calls the head Negro in charge and a Jihadi remarks that many have found questionable at best.
Pierson, of course, took the tried-and-true conservative path of blaming liberals: So of course you could pull any of those tweets out of one of those heated discussions because a lot of times it s in the sphere of fighting off other liberal activists.
I got to tell you.
It s interesting that this has made some sort of news cycle when we have all of the things that are happening in the world, including a presidential race, to go back 36,000 tweets, pull them out of context of the discussion and try to make that a news story.
That s right, she got angry with liberals so she called the President a half-breed, a Negro, and other awful things.Unfortunately, this behavior is typical of conservatives, who feel that anger is justification to spew slurs and hatred.Watch Pierson s flimsy excuses below:Featured image via screengrab