President Obama has finally been vindicated after seven years of Republican attacks on the Affordable Care Act resulted in humiliating failure on Friday.Once again, Republicans were forced to cancel a floor vote for their Trumpcare bill the day after previously pulling it because many Republicans couldn t bring themselves to vote for such a terrible piece of legislation.The bill would have repealed the Affordable Care Act, stripping healthcare from over 20 million Americans and causing healthcare premiums to skyrocket.Donald Trump, of course, immediately blamed Democrats for the defeat even though Republicans control the House, Senate, and the White House.In short, Republicans only have themselves to blame because they are the ones who tried to replace the Affordable Care Act with a plan that was just awful and universally opposed across the country.Adding insult to injury, Fox News anchor Bret Baier forcefully pointed out that while Republicans went down in flames, President Obama won the day.
Let me just say one thing, the biggest winner today: President Barack Obama, who came out this week and defended his legacy healthcare law, Baier began.
It is now clear that Republicans cannot do, at least yet, what they planned on doing in the campaign, after campaign from 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016, repeal and replace was the mantra.
Indeed, Republicans rehearsed their repeal of the Affordable Care Act incessantly, holding over 60 useless symbolic votes over the years.
But when push came to shove, Republicans demonstrated that they are incapable of governing even when they control every branch of government.
Barack Obama has the win right now, and it has changed the entire way that we look at healthcare, Baier continued.
It is now the Democrats version, the ideology, that government does have a role in providing healthcare in some way shape or form.
Thousands of Americans across the country showed up at town halls to confront Republicans in defense of the Affordable Care Act and only 17 percent of Americans approved of their bill.And in the end, not enough Republicans were willing to commit political suicide by supporting the bill and decided to stand against it instead.In conclusion, Baier echoed Fox Business host Stuart Varney by noting that Republicans control Congress and the White House but still could not get anything done.
The repeal, drag it up by the root has not worked, Baier said.
They can t get it through a Republican House, a Republican Senate and a Republican president.
Today is a win for President Barack Obama.
Here s the video via YouTube.Americans should remain vigilant, however, and continue to watch Republicans closely to make sure they don t try to sneak the bill through.
Just like the Affordable Care Act failed a few times before it passed, the GOP could always bring up their terrible bill again for another vote.
It will be up to each and every one of us to make sure they fail again.
But for now, the Affordable Care Act is the law and Republicans should accept that and get over it.Featured image via Pete Souza