Trump s spokeswoman Katrina Pierson isn t known for being the brightest crayon in the box.
She once went on air wearing a necklace made of bullets to show how committed the Trump campaign is to upholding the second amendment at all costs, for instance.
Well, she s back now, and this time she is defending her crazy boss and his even crazier supporters and their violent tendencies.Chances are, these days, if there s a Donald Trump rally, there is violence.
So, of course, when being interviewed, Pierson and other workers on the Trump campaign are asked to denounce this behavior.
Of course, they never do, though.
On Sunday, Pierson appeared on Fox and was asked about the escalating violence at Trump rallies.
Host Jeannine Pirro wondered aloud if the entire Trump show the violence the protests, all of it were anarchy, or perhaps some kind of game to get a specific candidate nominated.
Pierson s response was predictably stupid: I think a lot of it is anarchy, but I think more importantly this is organized chaos.
They are trying to create a public perception of violence to scare people [away from] supporting Mr. Trump.
She then went on to make the ridiculous assertion that conservative values have been absent in the community since the days of GOP favorite Ronald Reagan, and ever since it has been a free for all for the militant left in this political [sic] correct society where it s okay for them to use violence as an intimidation tactic or just yell racist or Hitler to smear someone s character.
Pirro then hit Pierson with something she can t stand: facts (shocking, coming from a Fox host, I know).
She reminded the spokeswoman that there were no protests and no violence at the rallies and speeches of the other GOP presidential hopefuls.
Pierson chose to ignore this and say: You have people like MoveOn.org and Black Lives Matter and some of these anarchy groups, that s all they do is look for fights.
They ve been provoking people all over the country long before Mr. Trump entered this race.
Pierson went on to give the ominous warning that Trump s supporters would only be emboldened by those who try to plot to stop him from getting the GOP 2016 nomination, saying: This is the American people having a head-on collision with the truth, which is that the Democratic side is not on the side of the people, and the militant left is their army.
And what we re seeing now is that people supporting Mr. Trump, they re not afraid.
They re going to go out there and they re going to fight for American values and American families because that s who needs to come first.
This woman is just another example of how ridiculous but also dangerous Trump, his supporters, and his campaign are.
They are to be stopped at all costs.Watch the video below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture