On Wednesday, right smack dab in the middle of the Republican National Convention and Donald Trump s coronation as the party s nominee, another woman accused him of sexually assaulting her.
She is the third woman to come forward with claims of the billionaire s sexually aggressive behavior.Jill Harth, a makeup artist, kept silent about the assault for 20 years.
But when he announced he was running for president, it didn t take long for the lawsuit she had filed in 1997 accusing him of attempted rape, to be discovered.
It was his response after the suit was revealed to the public that convinced her to speak out.
He called her a liar and pressured her to recant her story.
However, she said the topper was when Ivanka claimed that her father was not a groper.
Harth said: He didn t have to say anything.
For once, he should have closed his mouth.
He didn t have to comment.
We were on great not great, I ll take that back we were on good terms, friendly terms.
He didn t he started this.
What is happening now is of his own making, OK?
I was quiet.
Of course, Trump took to Twitter to trash the New York Times and Jill Harth:@realDonaldTrump @nytimes I didn't lie.
You did.
stop having your daughter lie for you.
You don't give a dam what damage this caused me Jill Harth (@jillharth) June 24, 2016Harth said she first met Trump in 1992 when she and George Houraney, her business partner and boyfriend at the time, were trying to recruit the billionaire as a partner in their beauty pageant.
She claims the unwanted advances began at their very first meeting.
Donald Trump stared at me throughout that meeting.
He stared at me even while George was giving his presentation In the middle of it he says to George, Are you sleeping with her?
Meaning me.
And George looked a little shocked and he said, Well, yeah.
And he goes, Well, for the weekend or what?'
According to the complaint, they had dinner with Trump at the Plaza Hotel the next night and his inappropriate behavior only escalated.
Throughout the evening, Trump repeatedly groped her under the table, violating her physical and mental integrity by attempting to touch [her] private parts.
Harth said that Trump continued to call her and tried repeatedly to convince her to come to his home for private late-night business meetings.
Finally, he insisted that she and Houraney on having a meeting at his Mar-A-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida.
During the meeting, Trump took the group on a tour.
Then, Harth said he forcibly pulled her away from the group and cornered her in one of his children s rooms.
He tried to make his move.
He pushed me up against the wall and had his hands all over me and tried to get up my dress again.
And I had to physically say, What are you doing?
Stop it.
It was a shocking thing to have him do this, because he knew that I was with George.
He knew they were in the next room.
And how could he be doing this when I m there for business?
If it s not consensual and somebody pushes you up against a wall and is all over you?
If I hadn t pushed him away, I m sure he would ve just went for it.
He was aggressive.
And he has a sense of entitlement.
And he thinks everybody s in love with him every woman.
I ve heard him say things like this.
Harth dropped her suit after Trump settled an outstanding business lawsuit with Houraney, in which they claimed the real estate tycoon broke their contract when he backed out of the American Dream festival.Harth said that the fact that everyone was rushing to defend Trump, the man who attacked her, was a large part of what convinced her that it was time to speak out.
Nobody was defending me, that s why I m talking, Harth said.
You can believe it or not, but I went through hell and I still have to relive this again.
And I just, I m horrified that I have to think about this again.
Naturally, Trump has denied these accusations, but it is not the first time a woman has come forward with these kinds of claims.
In June, a woman filed a complaint against Trump alleging that he had violently raped her during a party at the home of Jeffrey Epstein.
A witness, identified only as Tiffany Doe corroborated her claims.
The first accusation of rape against the Republican nominee came from his first wife, Ivanka.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images