The massive crowd of protesters who showed up with pitchforks and torches must have really done a number of professional Hillary Clinton witch hunter and chairman of the House Oversight Committee when they refused to allow him to lie to them on Friday.One particularly memorable moment was when a 9-year-old girl bravely stood up to the science-and-reality-denying Utah Congressman, asking him What are you doing to protect our air and our water for our generation and our kids generation?
Do you believe in science?
she asked.
I do.
Utah Congressman Chaffetz gets totally owned by 10 year old girl's sick burn about science, refuses to answer her question & crowd goes wild pic.twitter.com/FxKUM2TklY Aaron Stewart-Ahn (@somebadideas) February 10, 2017Chaffetz made a show of smiling and shaking the little girl s hand as the crowd roared in her favor before offering a patronizing answer that did not actually address her question.While he was nice to her face, behind her back Chaffetz is saying that little girl and all others who assembled to demand that he investigate Donald Trump with the same fervor with which he investigated Clinton, is a paid protester.
You could see it online a couple days before, a concerted effort in part to just cause chaos, Chaffetz said Friday.
Democrats are in disbelief that they have nothing but flailing and screaming to deal with this.
The scary 9-year-old girl and the more than 1,000 others who showed up, he says, were doing nothing more than acting out a paid attempt to bully and intimidate.
People are asking me to use the power of Congress to do a full-on fishing expedition to investigate him personally on things that are not required by law.
I think my doing that would be an abuse of power, Chaffetz says, adding that he will never satisfy their desire to bring down Donald Trump.
If protesters thought they would get through to Chaffetz or what he would even consider doing his job with regard to Trump, they now have their answer: he has no intention of ever lifting a finger to do the right thing.We need more paid protesters like that little girl.
For some reason, she scares the living hell out of the big bad Congressman from Utah.Featured image via screengrab