Adding insult to injury, not only will Donald Trump force U.S. taxpayers to build the wall along the southern border, he will use that money to hire Mexican companies to build it.During his inaugural address, Trump claimed America would follow tow rules.We will follow two simple rules: BUY AMERICAN & HIRE AMERICAN!#InaugurationDay #MAGA??
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 20, 2017That s right.
The man who buys materials for his hotels from overseas and has his products made by overseas laborers literally commanded Americans to buy American made goods and to hire American workers.And Trump is already breaking those rules as president.Trump repeatedly promised his supporters that he would build a wall alongside the entirety of the U.S.-Mexican border and force Mexico to pay for it.
Trump then said that American taxpayers would pay for it and Mexico will simply reimburse us for the cost.
Just before taking office, Trump went to Congress to ask them for the money to build the wall.Yesterday, Trump declared once again on Twitter that he is following through with building the wall.Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow.
Among many other things, we will build the wall!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017But now it appears that Trump is getting ready to screw over American taxpayers, American workers, and American companies because he intends to hire Mexican companies to build the wall.According to The Guardian,The construction consultants Gleeds Worldwide said building a 1,000-mile wall the border is 1,889 miles long but large parts are protected by natural barriers including mountains and the Rio Grande would cost $31bn and take 40,000 people more than five years to construct.And because Mexican laborers and Mexican companies are less expensive, Trump will likely pay them to build it, thus depriving American workers and companies from benefiting.
The idea of building a 1,000-mile wall which is designed to be impenetrable is something that may well come back to haunt the president, Gleeds chairman Richard Steer said.
You ve got to build roads to move the materials and machinery and get the workforce to the location as the wall is being built.
You would need a very big labor force to build it some 40,000 people working over five years.
Steer went on to state that Mexican workers would benefit the most from the massive project because they are closer to the site and make less pay.Mexican companies are also poised to benefit most from the project because materials are cheaper.Analysts at Bernstein investment bank plotted the location of nearby plants and quarries and found that the Mexican building company Cemex was best-positioned to provide materials on both sides of the border.In short, Trump is going to do the same thing he did in order to build his hotels.
He s going to screw over American companies and American workers by using foreign labor and buying materials from foreign companies to do the job.
And the taxpayers are going to fund every last wasteful dime of the cost and get nothing in return except a useless ugly wall that will do nothing to stop immigration and will draw comparisons to walls built by other tyrannical regimes such as the Berlin Wall built by the Soviet Union.It s time for Trump supporters to wake up and realize that Trump doesn t give a damn about them at all.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images