Donald Trump hasn t even been sworn in yet and he s already beating Richard Nixon when it comes to being a liar.Forty-four years have passed since the Watergate scandal dominated the news.
Carl Bernstein was one of the Washington Post reporters who broke the scandal wide open.Throughout his presidency, Richard Nixon repeatedly lied and misled people.
And when Watergate happened, he tried to cover it up by any means necessary.
In the end, Nixon was forced to resign because he was going to be impeached.
He remains the only president who has ever resigned the office and the Watergate scandal became the scandal by which other political scandals are judged.Well, Donald Trump has spent the last few days defending Russia and desperately trying to cover up the fact that Russia hacked into our election to help Trump win.
He doesn t believe the CIA assessment concluding that Russia interfered and claimed on Fox News Sunday that Democrats are pushing a lie to taint his great victory.
In short, Trump threw American intelligence agencies under the bus to defend Putin and accused Democrats of making up a scandal.
This is something that Richard Nixon would do.
But unlike Trump, Nixon didn t deny facts at every turn, nor did he lie every time he spoke.Trump does exactly that on Twitter every day, launching attacks and smear campaigns against anyone who criticizes him or runs a story he doesn t like.
Trump also exaggerates his supposed accomplishments like the Carrier deal, which is nothing more than a windfall for Carrier at taxpayer expense while jobs are slashed anyway.Carl Bernstein knows this first-hand, which is why he declared Trump a bigger liar than Nixon during an appearance on CNN.
Trump lives and thrives in a fact-free environment, Bernstein said.
No president, including Richard Nixon, has been so ignorant of fact and disdains fact in the way that this president-elect does.
And it has something to do with the growing sense of authoritarianism that he and his presidency are projecting and the danger of it is obvious and he s trying to make the conduct of the press the issue, not his own conduct.
Bernstein used Trump s Carrier deal as an example of his lies and Trump s attack against a steelworkers union leader as an example of Trump denying facts and lashing out at anyone who dares to call him out.
He doesn t go to a fact-based argument, he goes to an emotion-base argument, Bernstein pointed out.
What we have seen throughout the campaign is pathological disdain for the truth.
Jeffrey Lord, of course, whined about Bernstein s analysis, but Berstein stood by what he said and doubled down.
We now have a president-elect who, in terms of truthfulness Richard Nixon was nothing, in terms of lying, compared to what we have seen from Donald Trump.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is more unfit to be president than Richard Nixon.
We could very well be looking at the most scandal-ridden administration in American history and it hasn t even taken over yet.
At this rate, Trump might as well resign now before he becomes the first president to lose an impeachment trial.Featured Image: Screenshot