Donald Trump s decision to choose Russian state media over American journalists has drawn the ire of the ladies on The View.
On Wednesday, just one day after firing FBI Director James Comey as the agency continues to investigate his Russia scandal, Trump took a meeting with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak.
Kislyak is the Russian official whom Michael Flynn spoke to during the transition, an action that raised further concerns about Trump s ties to Russia and Vladimir Putin.And raised even more concerns by letting Russian state media attend the meeting complete with all of their equipment, while banning the free press in the United States from attending.The decision especially concerns former CIA deputy director David Cohen.After Vice-President Joe Biden s former national security adviser posed a deadly serious question about whether it was smart of Trump to allow Russian state media and their equipment in the Oval Office, Cohen replied.
@ColinKahl No, it was not.
David S. Cohen (@cohendavid) May 10, 2017Kahl went to explain that he wasn t even allowed to bring his phone into the Oval Office, nor was he allowed to let foreign delegations bring cameras in that room.
But Trump let Putin s propaganda machine do it.This infuriated Joy Behar so much that she ripped Trump a new one on Thursday, calling his actions treasonous and un-American.
He s speaking to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador Kislyak who s the one who Michael Flynn got fired for talking to, Behar said.
And in the room, here s Trump talking to the Russians and the Russian press is there covering, and guess who s missing from the room?
The American press.
They were barred from the room.
This is treason to me.
This is un-American, it s unpatriotic.
Americans should be furious.
Here s the video via YouTube:Indeed, Americans should also be worried.
Trump may have just compromised national security by letting Putin s propaganda network inside the Oval Office.
The threat of listening devices and cameras being covertly placed inside the Oval Office is a very real threat.
This is where the president often meets with foreign officials, staffers, members of Congress, and military leaders.Inviting a Russian state media crew into the Oval Office is irresponsible.
Trump s refusal to let American media cover the meeting is flagrantly outrageous because Trump chose Putin s propaganda machine over the American free press.
It s suspicious and makes one wonder what Trump wanted to hide from the American people.Featured Image: Screenshot