Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.)
has been the object of some serious concern in the White House due to her potential as a 2020 presidential challenger, despite the fact she has said she will not run.The White House is teaming up with the Republican National Committee (RNC) to dig up whatever they can on Warren and whatever they can fabricate so they can circulate condemning memos to reporters.Meanwhile, aides in the White House are keeping tabs on Warren s criticism of Trump and have used the media to aggressively hit back.
Last month The Hill published the Senator s criticism of America s largest non-nuclear bomb being dropped in Afghanistan, the White House quickly scrambled with a rebuttal an unusually high level of concern over one senator.
As somebody who is probably, in the hearts and minds of liberal activists, a leader of the party, that voice carries some weight, and we have to respond, said a White House official who wishes to remain anonymous.In an effort to put down the Senator, Trump brought back his favorite and most offensive Warren insults last month, referring to her as Pocahontas while delivering a speech to the National Rifle Associate.
I have a feeling that in the next election, you re going to be swamped with candidates, said Trump.
It may be Pocahontas, remember that.
Many see Warren as a likely 2020 presidential candidate, and when Trump can t find legitimated faults with his adversaries, he cowardly resorts to racial insults as attempts to make them look bad.
Warren has abstained from engaging in name calling, despite what the Trump administration has to say about her.
Elizabeth Warren is the perfect foil for the Trump administration, says former Trump aide Sam Nunberg.
I always thought she would be the new Rosie [O Donnell].
Our base hates her; we think she s a joke.
She s somebody to galvanize us.
It was very smart for the president to bring her up at the NRA.
The White House claims they are focused on governing but believe they also need to brand the Massachusetts Senator as out of touch and unfit for the presidency, while she holds a 56 percent approval rating nationwide in a recent survey by Morning Consult.It seems the White House isn t very good at hiding the fact they are seriously afraid of Warren s momentum and her potential to reach the blue-collar voters who backed Trump.
Luckily, Trump s racist name calling makes him look bad, not her.Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images