Senator John McCain just got outed as a hypocrite with a damning video that shows him acting just like Donald Trump even though he blames the presumptive GOP nominee for hurting him among Hispanic voters.Last week, the Arizona Republican complained to private donors that Donald Trump s rhetoric against Hispanics is making his re-election bid difficult.
I do not take my primary opponent lightly, McCain said.
He continued: But have no doubt that if it is Donald Trump at the top of the ticket, here in Arizona with over 30 percent of the vote being the Hispanic vote I have no doubt that this may be the race of my life.
People are angry.
They re upset.
They feel that there s this disconnect and all of that and frankly there s an element of nativism in it as well, as you know.
McCain is all of a sudden worried about the Hispanic vote because Trump has accused Hispanic immigrants of being rapists and murderers, all while promising to build an expensive wall along the entire southern border to keep immigrants out of the United States.But as it turns out, McCain is apparently pretending that he is totally different from Trump.Because in 2010, McCain used the exact same rhetoric in a campaign ad that makes it clear that he should blame himself for any troubles with Hispanic voters he will experience in November.MSNBC host Al Sharpton caught McCain being a hypocrite, so he played the video during an interview with McCain s Democratic challenger Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick.In the ad, McCain is walking along the border with a local sheriff.
Drug and human smuggling, home invasions, murder, he says.
The sheriff uses the term illegals to describe desperate undocumented immigrants fleeing violence in their countries of origin for a better life in America.
John McCain then concludes by calling to complete the dang fence.
Here s the video via YouTube.
Blaming immigrants for murder, for home invasions, vowing to, quote, complete the fence.
I mean, this is John NcCain, Sharpton said.
Is there that much difference that you see there between what he s saying and what Trump is saying about building a wall?
he asked Kirkpatrick.Kirkpatrick agreed, saying that John McCain changed his position again as he often does depending on who he is talking to.
He s not a straight shooter, she continued.
He s not a maverick.
He doesn t stand for anything.
Here s the video via YouTube.Looks like John McCain has some explaining to do.Featured image via Flickr