Following the tragic shooting of several police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana earlier today that left three officers dead and three more injured, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump took the tragedy as an opportunity to bash President Barack Obama and make a pathetic attempt to convince America that things like this wouldn t happen under his watch.In a post on Facebook, Trump wrote: We grieve for the officers killed in Baton Rouge today.
How many law enforcement and people have to die because of a lack of leadership in our country?
We demand law and order.
It s now becoming a trend for Trump to exploit crimes against law enforcement to make himself look better to his racist tribe.
He purposefully mentioned law and order in this Facebook post because after the Dallas attack, which left several police officers dead and many more injured, Trump called himself the law and order candidate in a speech addressing the Dallas attack.
Trump had said: We must maintain law and order at the highest level, or we will cease to have a country.
100%, we will cease to have a country.
I am the law and order candidate.
Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, is weak, ineffective, pandering, and as proven by her recent e-mail scandal, which was an embarrassment, not only to her, but to the entire nation as a whole, she s either a liar or grossly incompetent.
One or the other.
Very simple.
Following the Baton Rouge shooting, Trump also took to Twitter to vent and once again complained about how divided and out of control our country is (without considering how his hateful rhetoric and intolerant, racist values might be contributing to it).TwitterThis shooting is the second nationally-reported shooting in Baton Rouge this month, following the injustice of police brutality victim Alton Sterling, whose death inspired the shooting of police officers in Dallas.
It s clear that the ongoing tension between law enforcement and the African American community is growing after these incidents, however to exploit these tragedies and use them to bash Obama is disgusting.
If Trump would shut up and do his research for once, he would know that cops have never been safer than while Obama has been serving as President of the United States, and that the president is doing everything he can to keep our nation safe.TwitterFeatured image is a screenshot