It has been the life s work of Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
He s obsessed, really.
And it really seems to stem from not wanting President Obama to get credit for being the president that completely overhauled the healthcare system.
Proof of this is in his response to any question regarding what he would do instead.
He wants to repeal it to make it his own.However, when Cruz was asked directly about his plan for healthcare during the most recent GOP debate, he answered, or rather didn t answer, the moderator s question.Fox News Bret Baier asked Cruz: Today there are millions of people who gained health insurance from Obamacare and they now rely on it.
So the question, Sen. Cruz, if you repeal Obamacare, as you say you will: Will you be fine if millions of those people don t have health insurance, and what is your specific plan for covering the uninsured?
And here s Cruz s non-answer, completely dodging the question: If I am elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
Now, once that is done, everyone agrees we need health care reform.
It should follow the principles of expanding competition, empowering patients, and keeping government from getting between us and our doctors.
Three specific reforms that reflect those principles: Number 1, we should allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines.
That ll create a true 50-state national marketplace while will drive down the cost of low-cost catastropic health insurance.
Number 2, we should expand health savings accounts so people can save in a tax-advantaged way for more routine health care needs.
And Number 3, we should work to delink health insurance from employment, so if you lose your job, your health insurance goes with you, and it is personal, portable, and affordable, and I tell you, Bret I think that s a much more attractive vision for health care than the Washington-driven, top-down Obamacare that is causing so many millions to hurt.
To summarize: Cruz wants to make it so healthcare is only available on the free market, and with regard to what his plan for those who become uninsured due to the repeal of Obamacare, well, he doesn t have one.One of the key components to the Affordable Healthcare Act is making sure insurance companies can no longer deny coverage based upon preexisting conditions.
If the law is repealed, healthcare companies will be able to go back to these harmful practices and leave control of coverage back in the hands of for-profit care.
Thus, in the hands of those who see it in their best interest to deny care to those they may deem too expensive to cover, because it would harm profits.
Cruz seems to be in favor of this happening, since he didn t even touch upon it in his response.In addition, Cruz wants to make it so those who are covered by their employers are no longer covered, and would have to completely pay out-of-pocket for care.
This makes it remarkably hard for those in low wage earning positions to even remotely dream of having care.
The only people Cruz s plan helps are the wealthy and business owners who will no longer be required to offer coverage to their employees.
His plan is in no way whatsoever beneficial to the average American.
However, he words it in such a smarmy, salesman-type way that the average American won t pick up on the scam.Cruz wants the government completely out of healthcare which sounds great on paper if you only think of things in black and white.
However, the reality of the situation is millions of people rely on the government subsidies granted in the Affordable Care Act, millions also rely upon Medicaid, and even more rely upon the fact that Obamacare makes it so insurance companies can t deny a person based upon a preexisiting condition.Don t fall for the evils of Cruz in his effort to bring America back to an era of people dying because they can t afford coverage, which is exactly what he is proposing.
Video/Featured image: Slate