This is beyond unpresidential.During a narcissistic tweetstorm on Sunday morning.
Donald Trump retweeted a video featuring him driving a golf ball into Hillary Clinton s back.
The ball knocks her down as she boards a plane.
The person who shared the meme captioned it Trump s amazing golf swing and referred to Hillary with the nickname Crooked Hillary that Trump often calls her.Donald Trump s amazing golf swing #CrookedHillary pic.twitter.com/vKhxxFCBV1 Mike (@Fuctupmind) September 14, 2017Trump literally just retweeted a video of himself committing violence against a woman.
Purposely hitting someone with a golf ball is assault, and this video appears to be a threat.This is not something a so-called American president should be tweeting.But Trump did it anyway and the backlash was swift and brutal.What a surprise Mr grab them by the pussy retweeting a gif of violence against women.
Brief Truth (@TheBriefTruth) September 17, 2017This has to be by far the most childish thing you have retweeted.
When are you going to start acting presidential?
Chazz Archer (@ChazzAndreassi) September 17, 2017Seriously?
WTH is wrong with you?
Sandy Scerra (@99Turtles) September 17, 2017Trump is a pig?
Maggie?
(@MaggieM57) September 17, 2017This is a sick, demented clip that should never have been tweeted in the first place but our asinine @POTUS retweeted it!
Violence to women Irish Mason ???
(@IrishMason) September 17, 2017You ve tweeted a lot of things that were wrong, but I gotta tell you, this one takes the cake.
#disgusting #violent I love my dog (@mountainette) September 17, 2017How embarrassing to have a President who would actually retweet this.
#TrumpDisgraceful Dr. Solfege (@EngelAcademy) September 17, 2017This is what @POTUS does all day.
pic.twitter.com/rF0txCOXRR Brian P-C (@AlbertB_71) September 17, 2017Donald Trump should be ashamed of himself and he owes Hillary Clinton and the country a public apology and must immediately remove this offensive post.
Violence against women in any form is not okay.Featured Image: Jim Lo Scalzo Pool/Getty Images