There are a ton of potential conflict-of-interest problems cropping up as Trump prepares to take office.
One is his use of the Secret Service.
He already made nearly $3 million from them during his campaign, and now he potentially stands to make millions more over the next four years, and probably won t hesitate to do so because that s just how greedy he is.Even as far back as 2000, when Trump first started thinking about a run at the White House, he knew he could make money for himself.
Back then, he combined paid speeches with his political appearances, making them paid political appearances.
He actually admitted that he could be the first person to make money on the side as a presidential candidate.So what s going on now?
Basically, the Secret Service has to pay for travel with candidates while they re campaigning.
They paid both Trump and Hillary roughly $2.7 million each for travel.
However, with Hillary, that money helped with the costs of chartering a plane, so it s not like she actually just raked it in from them.However, since Trump was using his own airline for travel, they simply paid him the money for travel.
Yes, the costs associated with using those aircraft were rolled in, but Trump owns the airline.
Therefore, the money essentially went into his own pocket.He and Melania will be flying around now on Air Force One and Marine One.
What about their kids, though?
Trump s adult children are up for unpaid positions in his administration (he can t officially hire family).
Also, the Secret Service is supposed to protect immediate family, like children.
Sure, they ll sometimes fly on the official presidential aircraft, but other times, they could be flying on Trump s personal aircraft, possibly still with Secret Service protection.And the Secret Service has to pay for that.
It ll be the same as the campaign that money will essentially go into Trump s coffers.No wonder he s willing to take a $1 salary as president.
He sounds all wonderfully altruistic that way, but the truth his he has a huge opportunity to make millions anyway.
Even the $50,000 expense account is peanuts compared to what he stands to make by fleecing the Secret Service.
That makes the gesture as hollow as the CEOs with massive stock options who only take $1 salaries.
They still make millions.The blatant hate was obviously not enough, and now we have a man in the White House who will use the government to fatten his personal wallet as much as he can.
Who didn t see this coming?Featured by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images