Alex Jones of the right-wing site Infowars is no stranger to insane conspiracy theories, and he has come out with yet another one.
It seems that Jones is going after our beautiful first lady again, and this time he is accusing her of hiding a secret transgender past.
He also accuses her of murdering Joan Rivers.
Too nutty to believe, right?
Well not for our friend Mr. Jones.Right Wing Watch posted up a video of Jones acting like a complete lunatic regarding Michelle Obama, and it s too insane even for him.
He begins: Don t forget, the famous comedienne Joan Rivers said, Of course everyone knows she s a tranny.
She s dead serious, She s a man.
Deader than a doornail in a routine operation where basically she had fire poured down her throat and was a fire-breathing goblin.
Dead on arrival.
Shoot your mouth off, honey, you will die.
So, in other words, this lunatic actually believes that Joan Rivers death is the result of her knowing that Michelle Obama is transgender, so the first lady had the famously funny lady murdered.
But wait it gets even crazier, if you can believe it.
Jones continued: I really think her daughters don t look like her I really think this is some weird hoax they did again, just like he didn t get sworn in on the Bible, it was the Quran, Jones continued.
All this weirdness, I mean, I used to laugh at this stuff, but man, it s all about rubbing our noses in it.
I think it s all an arranged marriage, it s all completely fake and it s this big sick joke because he s obsessed with transgender, just like some weird cult or something.
I think Michelle Obama is a man.
I really do.
I really do.
I believe it.
This dude does not belong in the public eye.
He belongs in a mental institution if he actually believes this.
The Obamas could sue his clearly crazy ass for slander, but why bother?
The guy is clearly unhinged.
It s a shame that today s incarnation of the GOP is crazy enough to believe this shit, and in the age of the interwebs, anyone can have a platform to spread whatever brand of hate and nutbaggery they like, including bashit insane conspiracy theorists like Alex Jones.Someone get this man some help, STAT, before he goes off and does something really nuts.Watch the clip below, via Right Wing Watch:Featured image via video screen capture