5 broken ribs with trouble breathing, lung contusions and life-threatening possibilities is not a minor injury as media claimed A senior adviser for Rand Paul says the U.S. senator is recovering from five broken ribs following an assault at his home.Doug Stafford said it is unclear when Paul will return to work since he is in considerable pain and has difficulty getting around, including flying.
Stafford said Sunday that the broken ribs include three displaced fractures, which can lead to life-threatening injuries.
The severe pain can last for weeks or months.Police arrested 59-year-old Rene Boucher on Saturday and charged him with misdemeanor fourth-degree assault with a minor injury.
Boucher is accused of attacking Paul on Friday, but officials have not released a motive.Boucher lives next door to Paul and his wife, according to Warren County property records.Boucher was released from jail on Saturday.
He has not returned a call seeking comment.OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE ATTACK:Another unhinged Democrat has been arrested for attacking someone with political views that are in opposition to his yawn Kentucky State Police have arrested a person accused of assaulting Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) at his home in Kentucky, the senator s office confirmed on Saturday.
Senator Paul was blindsided and the victim of an assault, Kelsey Cooper, a spokeswoman for Paul, said in a statement.
The assailant was arrested and it is now a matter for the police.
Senator Paul is fine.
The suspect was identified as 59-year-old Rene Boucher of Bowling Green, Kent., according to a statement from Kentucky State Police reported by the Bowling Green Daily News.
True PunditBoucher is an anesthesiologist and pain specialist.
He got his medical degree from Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine after being pre-med at Providence College in Rhode Island, according to Doximity.
Boucher has practiced medicine in since 1982 and attended high school in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
Between 1985 and 1993, Boucher was pain management specialist at the Letterman Army Medical Center in San Francisco where he also did his residency.In 2005, Boucher appeared on QVC marketing a rice-filled vest that was designed to alleviate back pain, reported the Bowling Green Daily News.
The vest retailed at $30 and had to be microwaved before use.
The website for Therm-a-Vest is no longer active.
WAVE reports that Boucher retired in 2015.In May 2017, Boucher shared a story on Facebook about Republican Congressman Greg Gianforte assaulting The Guardian s Ben Jacobs in Bozeman, Montana.
The assault was described as a body slam at the time.
Boucher writes in his Facebook bio that he is in a relationship.
The Bowling Green Daily News article about Boucher s pain relieving vest saw him city his wife, Lisa, as a reason for its success.Boucher is a registered Democrat.
Since Trump s ascendency to the president, Boucher has been severely critical the GOP on Facebook.
Boucher is shown to be an advocate for gun control and healthcare reform.
There does not seem to be any posts that target Senator Paul.
Heavy