A dying man had just one wish, and that was for Donald Trump to be impeached.
Unfortunately, Michael Garland Elliott died before impeachment even began (if it will ever begin), but he died in peace on April 6th, after his family lied to him.Elliott was divorced, but his ex-wife was still his best friend.Teresa Elliot, the man s ex-wife and best friend, wanted to give him comfort in his final moments.
Upon hearing that, he took his final, gentle breath [and] his early work concluded, the obituary in the Oregonian reads.Source: SalonHere is the full obituary: Michael Garland Elliott passed away peacefully, April 6, 2017, surrounded by people who loved him dearly and cared for him selflessly during the last months of his life.
He was born in Charlottesville, Va., in either 1940 or 1941 (he honestly didn t know!
), and attended Lane High School, where he shined on the basketball court.
After college at University of Virginia, he moved to Long Beach, Calif., where, among other things, he joined a semi-pro basketball team that toured the country playing exhibition games, dressed as women.
At such times Mike was called Skaggy Maggie and continued round-ball domination, albeit with a different uniform.Mike was a Porsche enthusiast, owning a dozen of them over the years, but nothing touched his heart like the ancient game, golf.
He was a founding member of The Reserve and spent countless weekends doing what he loved most with like-minded friends.
He was very passionate about the game.
One time (that we know of) he was angered by an errant shot and threw his club into a tree.
Eventually every club in his bag was in that tree.
Mike s health had declined over the past decade, and when he was no longer able to golf he accepted it with grace and humor, and threw things at the TV instead.
Mike was also the sharpest dresser in town, single-handedly keeping Nike s apparel wing in the black.Though Mike had no family remaining, he stayed close to the people he d worked with in the plastics industry, especially Danny Velansky and Sean O Brian, who was by his side at the end.
Also present were Larry Smith, Judy Wiley, lovely neighbors Russ, Sandy and Garrett, and his devoted caregivers Alisha Alex, Sara Young and Leslie Kampmann, angels in human form.
No patient ever, ever had more loving care.Mike ran out of family long ago and is survived by his ex-wife and best friend, Teresa Elliott.
Though their marriage ran aground, their friendship only grew stronger and hers was the last voice Mike heard.
And the last thing she said to him was Donald Trump has been impeached.
Upon hearing that he took his final, gentle breath, his earthly work concluded.
Mike will be forever missed but never forgotten.
There s a metaphor here (we re talking to you, Calexit people).
Elliott appears to know that strength is in numbers.
The #resistance can win, but only if we remain strong.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images.