It what can only be seen as completely unacceptable, one of the top NFL draft prospects was just asked by an NFL coach if they were gay during a meeting.
Eli Apple, star cornerback coming out of Ohio State, met with an Atlanta Falcons coach last week.
According to Apple, the coach who has not yet been identified, asked him point-blank, So do you like men?
Apple told Comcast SportsNet: I ve been asked a lot of weird questions.
I don t know if I could say on TV.
The Falcons coach, one of the coaches, was like, So do you like men?
It was like the first thing he asked me.
It was weird.
I was just like, no.
He was like, if you re going to come to Atlanta, sometimes that s how it is around here, you re going to have to get used to it.
I guess he was joking but they just ask most of these questions to see how you re going to react.
How did this coach think that question would, in any way, be appropriate.
If Apple were gay, which he is not, what difference would it make?
And for that to be one of the first things asked is just beyond odd.Fortunately, Falcons Head Coach Dan Quinn was equally as appalled as pretty much everyone else finding out about this line of question and released the following statement regarding what happened with Apple: I am really disappointed in the question that was asked by one of our coaches.
I have spoken to the coach that interviewed Eli Apple and explained to him how inappropriate and unprofessional this was.
I have reiterated this to the entire coaching staff and I want to apologize to Eli for this even coming up.
This is not what the Atlanta Falcons are about and it is not how we are going to conduct ourselves.
Hopefully, the coach who asked this inappropriate line of questions receives more of a consequence than just a stern talking to, but at least Quinn is willing to acknowledge the fault in this line of questioning to any player, regardless of sexual orientation.
Add this to the long list of things the NFL needs to work on.Featured image: Evan Habeeb-USA TODAY Sports