On Wednesday morning, Republican front runner Donald Trump basically said that if another candidate wins the nomination, America could count on riots from his crazed, emotionally unstable supporters.Trump made these comments to Chris Cuomo on CNN s New Day after Cuomo asked him if how he would be able to bring the GOP together at the Republican national convention in July, despite the fact that some do not want to see Trump as the nominee at all.
The business mogul said: I think there s a natural healing process.
Once the battle is over, once the war is over, I think there really is a natural healing process.
I ve gotten along with people all my life.
This is actually a little bit unusual.
I ve gotten along very well with people, and I think it ll happen again.
However, because Trump bullies his way into everything, he didn t stop there he reminded America that his fans have proved that they are absolutely insane with the violence at this rallies, and they won t hesitate take it up a notch if he doesn t win.
Tump warned: I think we ll win before getting to the convention.
But I can tell you, if we didn t, and if we re 20 votes short or if we re 100 short, and we re at 1100 and somebody else is at 500 or 400 because we re way ahead of everybody I don t think you can say that we don t get it automatically.
I think you d have riots.
I think you d have riots.
I m representing a tremendous many, many millions of people.
Considering the fact that Trump has encouraged violence several times and even offered to pay any legal fees resulting from his supporters attacks, there s no reason for us to take this lightly.
Trump and his minions have given us more than enough proof that they re dangerous people.Trump then tried to comfort Americans, arguing that everything would go smoothly if we just surrendered all of our dignity and let him win.
He said, I wouldn t lead it, but I think bad things would happen.
After we win, I think a lot of feelings will be soothed.
You can listen to the interview below:.
@realDonaldTrump tells @ChrisCuomo, I think we ll win before getting to the convention.
https://t.co/bD1KmvD0wu New Day (@NewDay) March 16, 2016Trump is so close to the nomination, it s scary.
Marco Rubio has just dropped out of the presidential race, leaving one less candidate to take Trump down.
Trump s strongest competition right now is Ted Cruz.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore