It s truly sad that southern conservatives don t even know their own history.During a Donald Trump rally in Florida a group displayed a Confederate flag at the venue and were quickly told it had to be removed.
The flag had a Trump 2016 message on it.When asked by CNN why he displayed it, Brandon Partin explained that he bought the flag because they were being sold outside the rally and he thought Donald Trump would approve of it being flown at the rally.And then Partin defended the flag as not racist and suggested the Civil War was not fought because of racism and slavery.
Most people in our country don t understand the full history behind the flag.
So, I understand that the media and a lot of other people are going to turn it into something that it s not, you know, say that it s a racist thing or, you know, white supremacist.
I am not a white supremacist.
And it was about the North and the South.
It wasn t about racism at all.
The North had African-Americans fighting for them and the South had them for them, too.
So for people who spin it in that direction is just completely false.
I think that on a personal level between my beliefs and Trump s beliefs, I don t think he would have a problem with it at all because he probably understands the history and that s why we re all here.
Here s the video via YouTube:First of all, the idea that slaves willingly fought for the Confederacy is ludicrous.
The slave-holding Confederates feared giving firearms to slaves.
Plus, slaves would have been forced to fight because they would not have freely fought for their own continued enslavement.
Also, the Confederacy only approved of forcing blacks to fight for them on March 13, 1865 in an act of desperation.
Lee surrendered on April 9, 1865.
Partin is right that a very small percentage of black people in the South were soldiers in the Confederacy, but that s only because they were pressed into service by their tyrant masters and didn t want to be slaughtered for disobeying.Furthermore, the Civil War and the Confederate flag was all about slavery and racism.
As evidence, in their Declaration of the Immediate Causes Which Induce and Justify the Secession of South Carolina from the Federal Union, South Carolinians prominently cited slavery as the major cause of the decision to leave the Union and begin the process of seizing control of forts and other United States government property.A geographical line has been drawn across the Union, and all the States north of that line have united in the election of a man to the high office of President of the United States, whose opinions and purposes are hostile to slavery.
He is to be entrusted with the administration of the common Government, because he has declared that that Government cannot endure permanently half slave, half free, and that the public mind must rest in the belief that slavery is in the course of ultimate extinction.This sectional combination for the submersion of the Constitution, has been aided in some of the States by elevating to citizenship, persons who, by the supreme law of the land, are incapable of becoming citizens; and their votes have been used to inaugurate a new policy, hostile to the South, and destructive of its beliefs and safety.In addition, Confederate Vice-President Alexander Stephens made it clear in his Cornerstone Speech that the Confederate government was founded on the belief that black people are an inferior race and that slavery is the cornerstone of the South.
Our new Government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas; its foundations are laid, its cornerstone rests, upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition.
In short, the Confederate flag waving morons are trying to re-write history to make the Confederacy look like it was this great paradise that the evil Union unjustly fought a war against in 1861-1865.
The war of Northern aggression some conservatives call it.
Except that the South fired the first shots at Fort Sumter in an effort to forcibly seize US Government property.It s time for conservatives to face facts.
The Confederate flag is racist.
The Civil War was fought over slavery.
And the Confederates were a bunch of traitors whose descendants are still whining about a war they lost and are now supporting Trump because they believe he ll help them revive the cause, which again is all about subjugation, hatred, and oppression of people who don t have white skin.Featured Image: Screenshot