While Trump s Secretary of State was visiting a UN base on the border of North and South Korea on Friday, the former CEO of Exxon Mobil Corp. was photographed by a Reuters photographer, while at the same time, a North Korean soldier is seen photographing the top Diplomat covertly from the outside of a window.
You can t make this stuff up.
And now the picture is circulating on social media.In the image, a North Korean soldier can be seen on the right-hand corner of the picture peering in through a window and photographing Tillerson and a US Army general, Business Insider reports.The photo was taken inside the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), which was created after the Korean War on what is now the most heavily armed border in the world, and obviously the most spied upon.NBC reporter Brad Jaffy tweeted out a version of the photo, which he zoomed in on, calling it Rear Window.
Rear Window: North Korean soldier takes a photo of Rex Tillerson at the DMZ pic.twitter.com/EHCIR3Fjo6 Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 17, 2017The original photo can be seen here.Tillerson announced on Friday at a news conference in Seoul that military action against North Korea is an option if the threat from its nuclear weapons program rises to a level that we believe requires action.
Tillerson told reporters that all of the options are on the table.
According to the Korea Herald, Tillerson cut his recent visit short with South Korean officials due to fatigue.
The newspaper reported that Tillerson did not have lunch or dinner with South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se and acting President and Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn during his visit there.Tillerson spent several hours meeting with Japanese officials, which included dinner meetings, the paper noted, according to The Hill.The secretary of State reportedly did hold talks with both South Korean officials regarding the threat posed by North Korea s nuclear program.And that must have been before fatigue set in.
On Twitter, Trump said that North Korea was behaving very badly.
South Korea s Constitutional Court upheld the impeachment of former President Park Geun-hye in March over a corruption scandal.
In contrast, the U.S. has failed to address its newly minted president s growing list of scandals.
Tillerson, too, has his own scandal to deal with.As for the North Korean soldier spying on Tillerson, perhaps if he wore spy glasses and a fake mustache no one would have noticed.
The soldier has better access to the Secretary of State than U.S. reporters do.Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images.