Donald Trump has been irritating everyone lately.
It has gotten to the point that even many of the most horrific conservatives can t look past the hate speech and general insanity that has accompanied The Donald s attempt to become Dictator-in-Chief.
For the most part, they have been fine with Trump s bigotry: his suggestion that Muslims should be crammed into concentration camps while those not already in the country should be banned, his talk of building walls to keep brown people out of the country, his numerous racist and misogynist statements, and his support of his horrible followers beating African-Americans at his rallies.
They ve even been fine with his itchy trigger finger when it comes to launching nuclear weapons.But Trump s recent attacks on a Mexican federal judge from Indiana, his rapidly-dropping poll numbers, and his slightly more reasonable remarks about gun safety regulations, have the delegates he has earned ready for mutiny.
The Washington Post reports that delegates are hatching plans to stop Trump.
While many others have attempted to start movements to end Trump for good, this time it s different the people who make the rules are the ones leading the movement:The delegates are angered by Trump s recent comments on gun control, his racial attacks on a federal judge and his sinking poll numbers.
They are convinced that Trump is an insufficiently conservative candidate and believe they will find enough like-minded Republicans within the next month to change party rules and allow delegates to vote for whomever they want, regardless of who won their state caucus or primary.
This literally is an Anybody but Trump movement, said Kendal Unruh, a Republican delegate from Colorado who is leading the campaign.
Nobody has any idea who is going to step in and be the nominee, but we re not worried about that.
We re just doing that job to make sure that he s not the face of our party.
The fresh wave of anti-Trump organizing comes as a growing number of Republicans have signaled that they will not support Trump for president.
In addition, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), who is slated to chair the Republican National Convention next month in Cleveland, said in remarks released Friday that House Republicans should follow their conscience on whether to support Trump.The new anti-Trump movement is pushing for a change to party rules that would allow them to vote for whomever they want if their conscience (term used loosely because our friends on the Right don t have those) doesn t allow them to support that person.On Friday, Trump dismissed the plot against him.
I won almost 14 million votes, which is by far more votes than any candidate in the history of the Republican primaries, Trump said.
I have tremendous support and get the biggest crowds by far and any such move would not only be totally illegal but also a rebuke of the millions of people who feel so strongly about what I am saying.
People that I defeated soundly in the primaries will do anything to get a second shot but there is no mechanism for it to happen, the billionaire concluded.
But those in charge of the latest effort to shut Trump down say they do not have a specific candidate in mind.According to those involved, at least 30 delegates in 15 states have signed on a small fraction of the more than 2,400 delegates who will be at the convention in Cleveland.
Trump just continues to embarrass himself and his party and this is not going to let up, Iowa GOP delegate Cecil Stinemetz told the Post.
Trump just continues to embarrass himself and his party and this is not going to let up.
Will the movement succeed?
Will Trump continue to embarrass his party and Americans as a whole.Featured image via Getty Images/Rob Jenkins