In an age where billionaires are buying elections, tearing down the environment in pursuit of oil and gas, evading their taxes and just screwing over humanity in general, some are doing genuine good.Take billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, for instance.
Cohen, founder and CEO of Point72 Asset Management and S.A.C.
Capital Advisors, has pledged through his newest endeavor The Cohen Veteran s Network a whopping $275 million for our veterans.
His goal?
To provide them with free mental healthcare by picking up the cost.
An additional $30 million will be used for research programs through Cohen Veteran Bioscience.In a statement, Cohen, who is worth over $11 billion, and his network partner Dr. Anthony Hassan, praised United States veterans and called on America to pay the debt of gratitude:The wounds of war are serious.
It is not easy to serve your country in combat overseas and then come back into society seamlessly, especially if you are suffering.
These men and women have paid an incredible price and it s important that this country pays back that debt.
We will treat anyone who served in the U.S. Armed Forces during the war on terror.
If you wore the uniform, and you need help, you are welcome at Cohen Veterans Network period.
The $275 million will be spent over the next five years to open 25 clinics all across the country, collectively named the Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinics.
So far, four are scheduled to open in July in southwestern cities including Dallas, Los Angeles and San Antonio.
One will open in New York, and by the spring of next year, one will be opened in Philadelphia.According to the CVN website, goals of the network are:Cohen, a Republican, recently made a hefty donation of $2 million to now failed presidential candidate Chris Christie, and currently has a son, Robert, who served in the United States military.Some billionaires are bad.
Some billionaires make mistakes (some that are illegal).
Some don t take responsibility for their actions and give back to their communities.
But some, like Robert Cohen, help make the world a better place for the most vulnerable.
Featured image via Flickr