Now that Donald Trump has more or less sealed the Republican nomination, Democrats see a very real possibility that he could be president and that is scaring people to death.
Thanks to Trump, last minute Democratic voter registrations in California are up way up.In the first three months of the year, California added 1.5 million new voters through the end of April double the number of new voters added during the same time period in 2012.
And the total number of registered Democrats increased by nearly 100,000 people between the beginning of January and the beginning of April compared to a gain of just 15,000 registered Republicans, according to an analysis from Political Data Inc., a California-based voting analytics firm.
What s interesting is that the upticks have been greatest among Democrats and Latinos on those days where Donald Trump is kind of dominating the conversation, said Mitchell, a former Democratic consultant who has analyzed California voter registration from day to day and by party affiliation since January.Source: PoliticoOf course, this is bluer than blue California.
Trump won t win the Golden State, but the state is heavily Latino, and that could mean a lot for the general election in November.
In fact, it reflects a pattern that s been happening throughout the primaries.While Republican turnout is at an all time high, Democrats have been almost as busy:Turnout has nearly been just as intense on the Democratic side, where 11.7 percent of eligible voters have cast their ballots, the highest percentage since 1992 other than the year Barack Obama was first elected president in 2008.Several media outlets have recently reported large swaths of legal Hispanic citizens are registering to vote in swing states across the country with the express purpose of casting their ballots against the unapologetic Trump.
The outspoken New York real estate magnate launched his campaign by deriding Mexican immigrants as killers and rapists.
We ve seen more people this year that want to become citizens and specifically because they want to vote against Trump, said Mi Familia Vota executive director Ben Monterroso, whose group is among those leading a nationwide effort aimed at getting more Latinos to the polls.Source: Latin PostThe Latino vote represents more than 1/6 of the entire voting populace.
Latinos are also the fastest growing demographic in the country.
Even before Trump called all Mexicans rapists or blathered on about his big, beautiful wall, that he would have Mexico pay for, the Republican Party has been on the losing end of the electoral sea change.
The last time a Republican wont the majority of the Latino vote was in 2004, and that was George W. Bush, who spoke Span(gl)ish and said he d prioritize comprehensive immigration reform.
Yes, George W. Bush was a disastrous president, but his immigration stance was still much better than Trump s.The reality is, that without the Latino vote (yes, he did win the Latino vote in Nevada, but only the very small Republican Latino vote.
The vast majority of Nevada Latinos are Democrats), Trump has a very tough road ahead of him: There is no president that can get the White House without having the Latino vote, Mr. Monterroso told the Latin Post.
You have key states that without the Latino support, the candidate is not going to win, and if those key states don t vote for the president they re not going to make it.
The data backs him up.
By most political scientists estimates, the eventual Republican nominee needs between 40 and 47 percent of the Latino vote to win in a general election.Still, there is a chance Trump could find an issue that appeals to enough Latinos that he could siphon off a few votes from the Democratic nominee.
It s doubtful he ll win the Latino vote anywhere, but he doesn t have to win it.
He needs about 40 percent of the Latino vote.
Is that possible?
Well, Romney received 23 percent in 2012 and he wasn t anywhere near as divisive.
If California, and the primary so far, are any indication, things look good for the Democratic nominee, assuming the party isn t too divided.Featured image via David McNew at Getty Images.