Whenever Donald Trump has the opportunity to sell something, he s going to say whatever he needs to so it gets sold.
This time around, Trump is trying to sell himself to the American voting public so that he can pretend to be president, because the man doesn t have one bit of the necessary experience to actually do the job.Knowing Republicans love their guns dearly, and clearly don t understand the Constitution, he ll use that to his advantage.
So, on Twitter he tweets out what he said at a recent rally surrounding the Second Amendment of the Constitution, and that s that people have the right to have guns.
However, what he fails to do, and it can be pretty much guaranteed that it s on purpose, is talk about the first half of the amendment, nor the context of the necessity of the amendment for the time at hand and how it works with the rest of the Constitution.Trump tweeted out, pandering to his base of voters who love their guns more than anything: The Second Amendment to our Constitution is clear.
The right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed upon.
The #2A to our Constitution is clear.
The right of the people to keep & bear Arms shall not be infringed upon.
pic.twitter.com/sqe12D0MBJ Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 2, 2016Now, the whole amendment reads: A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.
Yes, the state Militias that were necessary at the time because the nation didn t have a standing, nationalized army.
Looking at Article 1 Section 8, it reads: To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress.
The Second Amendment arms those militias to be at the ready being necessary to the security of a free State.
In all honesty, the Second Amendment isn t really needed anymore now that we have our armed services.
And if you think the amendment can t be removed or changed, well, you must also think alcohol is still illegal.
The word amendment, quite literally, means change.
Oh, and if you think that you can fight back against the government if they restrict your gun use, think again, that would be insurrection, the very thing the Second Amendment arms against, and you would be tried for treason (see also: Whiskey Rebellion).All in all, Trump is just playing into the naivety of his voting base and their love for their ever-so-precious guns.
After all he s a businessman selling himself.
And unfortunately, people are buying it.Featured Photo by Marc Piscotty/Getty Images