It is no secret that the Republican Party is incredibly racist.
It s also no secret that the people over at Fox News frequently bring their token minorities on for interviews in the hopes that this will somehow justify their vitriol.
That s exactly what they did on Monday when Crystal Wright, founder of the Conservative Black Chick blog, appeared on Fox & Friends.
Hosts Steve Doocy and Anna Kooiman asked the blogger if she believes there is a GOP candidate who could steal the African-American vote (93 percent in 2012) from Democrats.
Wright responded by saying that Donald Trump is that candidate because he is the only person running who is bothering to talk to black people and ask for their vote.
She explained that his help would come in the form of mass deportation of the undocumented immigrants who are stealing jobs from black Americans.Nevermind the fact that there are few Americans of any race who are flocking to farms to harvest crops a job that is performed by-and-large by immigrants.As if that statement wasn t stupid enough, she went on to say: I think it s so sad when it comes to the black vote.
Blacks have shown a slavish support for the Democrat [SIC] Party for over 50 years.
And part of me wonders if the Republican Party should even bother asking for the black vote, Wright added, because black Americans seem to like being political dummies.
We re the only race that has voted lock, stock and barrel for the same party for over 50 years.
Perhaps that has something to do with the fact that the Democratic Party is the one who supported the Civil Rights Movement fifty years ago, while Republicans retreated into racism.
(And please do not try to say that it was the GOP who wanted equal rights for all minorities, we all know about the Southern Strategy.
)Wright s ignorance is breathtaking.
If this is who Fox goes to for advice about the African-American community, it s no wonder the Democratic Party has secured their vote.Watch the rest of her interview below:Featured image via video screenshot