Have you ever noticed how DHS Director Jeh Johnson repeatedly lies or answers questions with very vague answers?
I can name numerous times he s given smug and incomplete answers when testifying about immigration and terrorism.
Of course, the press has done nothing to expose this incompetence and the background of our Homeland Security Director nothing.
He was basically gifted the job at the DHS after his job as a bundler for Obama.
Anyone who has been paying attention knows there s something strange going on here.
Well, here s your lightbulb moment: The ineffectiveness and incompetence of the Department of Homeland Security under the clueless moonbat Jeh Johnson may have you wondering what possible qualifications he might have, other than being black and a bundler of campaign donations for Obama.
He has exactly one.
Like Obama himself, he is a red diaper baby:While speaking to Muslims [since the San Bernardino attack], Homeland Security chief Jeh Johnson revealed why he s so protective of them.
He compared growing suspicions cast on them to the plight of his communist kin.Johnson dropped the bombshell that his grandfather had been investigated for communism and un-American activities.
We can t say we re surprised.
Add him to the parade of Red diaper babies in the Cabinet, including top White House advisor Valerie Jarrett, former political advisor David Axelrod and President Obama himself.No wonder this administration isn t interested in monitoring radical Muslims for terrorist connections.
In 1949, during the McCarthy era, my own grandfather was called upon to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee, to deny he was a member of the Communist Party and defend the patriotism of African-Americans, Johnson said in a speech to the ADAMS Center in Sterling, Va., a mosque founded by alleged radical Muslim Brotherhood leaders.
Today his grandson is responsible for the homeland security of this entire nation, he boasted.He likened the current climate of fear, suspicions and prejudice against Muslim immigrants to the Red scare and McCarthyism his grandfather, Charles S. Johnson, lived under in the 1940s and 1950s.
In 1949, Johnson, a sociologist and president of predominantly black Fisk University, was dragged before the House Un-American Activities Committee and asked to deny if he is or ever has been a member of the Communist Party.
The panel had good cause to investigate.
Communists hadn t just infiltrated Fisk as professors, but Johnson had readily hired them, including Giovanni Ross Lomanitz, a known communist operative.
Even after Lomanitz s communist loyalties were exposed, Johnson spoke out on his behalf.
Johnson then hired and defended yet another communist, math professor Lee Lorch.
Johnson initially refused to fire him, but relented under withering criticism.
There was also the issue of Johnson s own membership in communist fronts such as the National Sharecroppers Fund.
Johnson denied the charges and called the hearings a witch hunt.
But the charges stuck.
After he died of a massive heart attack, grandson Jeh Charles Johnson took his name.
Of course, none of this came out in the younger Johnson s confirmation hearings.
We only this summer learned that old FBI papers reveal hard-core communism in Jarrett s family.
Her Chicago kin, who were known as concealed communists, included her late father, James E. Bowman.
He was involved with communist front groups and was in contact with a paid Soviet agent in the 1950s who was wanted for espionage.
Via: Investor s Business DailyThat means the danger Joe McCarthy is maligned to this day for heroically attempting to protect us against has come to pass.
It means that we are in deep trouble.Via: moonbattery After you watch the two videos note that there s a lack of will to do anything at all: Senator Sessions Hammers Jeh Johnson On Immigration: