CNN host Kate Bolduan sat quietly as a conservative radio host lied his ass off during an interview and then humiliated him so bad he was nearly speechless.On Friday, Jan Chamberlin released a statement announcing her resignation from the Mormon Tabernacle Choir she loved for many years.
I have highly valued the mission of the Choir to be good-will ambassadors for Christ, to share beautiful music and to give hope, inspiration, and comfort to others, she wrote, explaining why she refuses to sing for Donald Trump on Inauguration Day.
I ve tried to tell myself that it will be alright and that I can continue in good conscience before God and man.
But it s no use.
I simply cannot continue with the recent turn of events.
I could never look myself in the mirror again with self respect.
I also know, looking from the outside in, it will appear that Choir is endorsing tyranny and fascism by singing for this man.
Tyranny is now on our doorstep, she continued.
I only know I could never throw roses to Hitler.
And I certainly could never sing for him.
Predictably, conservatives threw a collective hissy fit and have sent threats and hateful messages to Chamberlin.And right-wing radio host Ben Ferguson threw his own temper tantrum on live television.Ferguson smeared Chamberlin as a hypocrite and claimed that she sang with the choir at President Obama s inauguration, and viciously criticized her throughout his rant.
Was the choir endorsing abortion when they sang when Barack Obama was inaugurated?
he began.
Because he s in favor of abortion.
I think that would be something, obviously, she just stepped out from if she s going to claim this holy high ground now.
This is nothing but a grandstanding individual who doesn t get her way so she says I m going to walk away.
There are 360 people in the choir.
Not all are going to be traveling.
More importantly than that when it comes to religion you would think she may actually want to have influence over people that are about to run the government and have peace and harmony which is what the Tabernacle Choir claims to be about.
This is nothing but self-righteous grandstanding from a crybaby who never grew up.
And guess what?
Not everyone believes everything you believe in.
It seemed like Bolduan had just let Ferguson get away with slandering Chamberlin and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir.
In fact, the segment continued as Symone Sanders defended Chamberlin against Ferguson s attack but his blatant lie remained unchallenged.But at the end of the segment, Bolduan finally pounced and informed Ferguson that the Mormon Tabernacle Choir never actually performed at President Obama s inauguration.Clearly busted, all Ferguson could manage to utter was, Well, there you go.
Here s the video via YouTube.It s not enough to call out lies.
It s time to punish pundits who blatantly lie on the air like Ferguson did.
Facts matter and if we want to make sure facts continue to matter, we need to pressure the media to keep people who lie off the air.
If they can t be bothered to tell the truth, they have no business being given a platform to spread their bullshit.Featured image via screenshot