Donald Trump has a very thin skin.
He has demonstrated this repeatedly; after all, he attacked the family of a fallen Muslim-American soldier for daring to criticize his disparaging comments about Muslims, and did the same to a beauty queen who had the guts to reveal how poorly he treated her when she was the reigning Miss Universe.
He again did the same to a reporter with a disability by mocking him on national television via a rally, and has attacked countless other people who dared to speak out against him regarding negative experiences they have had by working with or for Trump.
His latest target?
The cast of the great Broadway musical Hamilton.
Now, Trump has taken to Twitter to disparage the cast of the musical for the supposed harassment that his vice president-elect Mike Pence received when he decided to go to a showing of Hamilton in super liberal New York City.
Pence, who has a long and disturbing record of anti-woman and anti-LGBTQ positions and legislation, was booed at the production, and Brandon Victor Dixon, who plays Aaron Burr in the musical, made an impassioned plea to Pence to have an administration with Trump that includes everyone.
Of course, Trump could not let this perceived slight go, so he took to Twitter to disparage the cast, creators, and Dixon s statement to Pence, saying:Our wonderful future V.P.
Mike Pence was harassed last night at the theater by the cast of Hamilton, cameras blazing.This should not happen!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 19, 2016The Theater must always be a safe and special place.The cast of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence.
Apologize!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 19, 2016It s called free speech, pal.
You have a vice president-elect who is easily one of the most anti-LGBTQ political figures in the nation showing up at a New York City Broadway musical that has the most diverse cast imaginable, including a star who is openly gay and HIV-positive.
What did you expect?
Did you want the cast to kiss Pence s ass?
Not happening.
Pence is getting the same level of respect he has shown the LGBTQ community, which is absolutely none.
Make no mistake you re both getting exactly what you deserve.
Get used to it this will be your reception everywhere you go for the next four years, and it is definitely well deserved.Featured image via Scott Eisen/Getty Images