Well, well, well, look what we have here.During his meeting with President Obama, Donald Trump apparently was convinced that repealing Obamacare is probably not a good idea after all.According to the Wall Street Journal, Trump told reporters after the meeting that he may just simply amend Obama s signature healthcare law and said he would consider suggestions the president made during their discussion.
Either Obamacare will be amended, or repealed and replaced, Trump said.
I told him I will look at his suggestions, and out of respect, I will do that.
It s not a guarantee, but it s definitely a reversal from he has been telling his supporters throughout his campaign for the last year and a half.Republicans have been trying to destroy the healthcare law for years and even shut the government down in protest of the law.
They were hoping Donald Trump would be a rubber stamp to their agenda and now it turns out President Obama may have reasoned with Trump.
And considering over 100,000 Americans have signed up for an Obamacare health plan already this year and repealing the law could seriously hurt millions of Americans, including conservatives, it looks like Trump has changed his tune on a core campaign promise.And of course, his supporters are already starting to throw a hissy fit about it.
@thehill KEEP YOUR PROMISE AND REPEAL IT DON T SELL US OUT BEFORE YOU ARE SOWRN IN KEEP YOUR WORD &DON T LET US DOWN ERNIE (@GRANDPASOF) November 11, 2016@thehill watch it!
This is not why I voted for you.
You said repeal and replace .
Hell, Hillary was going to keep parts of obamacare Suzy Z (@suzyq10867) November 11, 2016@WSJ wrong wrong wrong wrong it must be totally repealed Mr Dane A Wolfe (@MrDaneAWolfe) November 11, 2016 @WSJ: Donald Trump willing to keep parts of health law https://t.co/rlRKQLrTgD What?
We haven t heard that from Trump yet.
Maybe 1-5% OK.
Deplorable Highlandr (@Incogneato76) November 11, 2016@WSJ hahahahaha not even sworn in yet and backing off one of the most fucked up laws in the books Obamacare sucks and needs to end !
Jeff Berghuis (@JeffS_Berghuis) November 11, 2016Whether Trump actually keeps or repeals Obamacare is yet to be seen.
But it s entertaining watching his supporters lose what s left of their minds whining about being lied to by a known liar.Featured Image: Pete Souza