December 19th could be the day 38 electors step up to courageously save our nation from the insanity of Donald Trump.On that day, which is often overlooked as a afterthought by most Americans, all 538 electors from all 50 states will gather in Washington D.C. to cast their votes for president.
Usually, the electors merely certify the results that were tallied on Election Day.But the Founding Fathers created the Electoral College as a mechanism to prevent unqualified demagogues like Trump from becoming president.
In short, it s the last line of defense our country has if ignorant voters manage to elect a threat into the highest office.For the first time in our history, the electors have the chance to do exactly that, and a group of celebrities, including West Wing actor Martin Sheen, M.A.S.H actors Loretta Swit and Mike Farrell, Will & Grace actress Debra Messing, along with many others, are uniting to encourage and support the 38 electors required to block Trump from becoming president.In a video, Sheen and others explain that Alexander Hamilton wrote in the Federalist Papers that the role of the Electoral College is to guarantee that the presidency is held by someone To an eminent degree, endowed with the requisite qualifications to be President of the United States.
They then call on these 38 people to be heroes and do the right thing.Donald Trump is not that someone, so it is up to the Electoral College to do what it was meant to do and vote for someone else.Here s the video via YouTube:A petition has been circulating since last month asking the electors to vote their conscience rather than allowing Trump to take office and destroy this country.
It currently has nearly five million signatures.
But unlike the petition, Sheen and his fellow entertainers are not asking the electors to vote for Hillary Clinton.
They simply want them to make sure Trump can t be president.
And that can happen if 38 electors vote for anyone but Trump.
They could even vote for a different Republican, preferably a sane Republican who won t burn our government and this country to the ground.This is especially critical now that the CIA and 17 other intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia meddled with our political process to help Trump win.The Electoral College exists as a safeguard for this reason.
And it is their duty as Americans to correct the mistake made on Election Day.Featured image via screenshot