When Donald Trump stood at his podium at a rally and declared, I have no friends You re my friends, he apparently wasn t kidding.
A scathing new report from The New York Times tells the sad story of a Donald Trump who at nearly 70-years-old has no real friends.One of Trump s favorite things to talk about are his celebrity friends.
In the past he s been chummy with the likes of Oprah Winfrey, Regis Philbin, Howard Stern and he loves playing golf with athletes like Tom Brady, but the reality is, none of those people are what you and I would classify as friends.
Richard LeFlak, a real estate tycoon who has known The Donald for four decades, told the Times that Trump is very gregarious and has lots of acquaintances, but people he s close to?
Not so many.
LeFlak isn t alone in his analysis of Trump s personal life: He doesn t really have a lot of friends, said Billy Procida, a financier and business confidant of Trump s, Pretty much all he does is work and play golf.
Reverend Al Sharpton, who knew Trump before he decided to become a Republican all of a sudden, said: Out of all the political and business and entertainment circles that we ve moved in together over the years, I never really met anyone who was Trump s good friend.
In fact, I ve never even met anyone who claimed to be his good friend.
It may seem harsh, but that s just how Trump operates.
He s an introverted narcissist who spends his time with family, presumably because he doesn t have anything to prove.
That analysis fits with a statement from Trump s longtime coworker and head of acquisitions, Abe Wallach, who told the Times that Trump would practically beg coworkers to hang out with him after work: Donald would call and say, Abe, what are you doing?
Marla and I are flying down to Atlantic City.
You and David want to come?
Wallach said.
I always thought: Why me?
I work with him all week.
Isn t there someone else?
Apparently not.
There is very little that suggests that Trump is capable of forming and maintaining personal relationships with people who aren t related to him.
Wallach gave the Times the reason why: Deep down, he s a very nice guy, Wallach said, but he can t let go and just be nice because he fears that people will take advantage of him.
Donald is actually the most insecure man I ve ever met.
He has this constant need to fill a void inside.
He used to do it with deals and sex.
Now he does it with publicity.
Ouch.
Obviously, if a man who has known Trump most of his professional career and spent time with him and his family can spout off like that and trash The Donald s social skills so easily, there must be something to it.
It could be that Wallach is right; that Trump lacks the confidence and self-respect to trust that not everyone is out to screw him, or it could be far simpler.
He might just be an insufferable douchebag.Whatever the issue, what we have here is just another reason Donald Trump is unfit to hold the highest office in the land.
Personal relationships are certainly important in trade, foreign policy and relations across the aisle.
Trump s failures as a human being will easily translate to failures as a diplomat and commander-in-chief.Featured image by Jeff Mitchell, Getty Images