For Trump supporters, the only way to fend off critics of the amateur president is to lash out at the free press.
There is no one who shamelessly sucks up to the former reality show star more than Sean Hannity.
CNN s Jim Acosta has been questioning the blackout of the media at the White House lately.
Most press briefings are now off-camera.
Hannity, who works for the fake news network Fox News, responded by calling CNN fake news.
He then called Acosta arrogant, combative and whiny.
According to Hannity, Acosta is looking for ways to damage the President as if Trump needs any help.
CNN s White House darling is really starting to become unhinged, Hannity said..@seanhannity Rips 'Unhinged' Jim @Acosta: 'He's Looking for Ways to Damage the President'https://t.co/BRq528lL9H Fox News (@FoxNews) June 28, 2017Acosta responded on Wednesday by mocking Sean Hannity s attacks on him, tweeting that the Fox News host needs a hug.
Alternate headline: @seanhannity needs a hug.
#hannityunhugged, Acosta tweeted.Alternate headline: @seanhannity needs a hug.
#hannityunhugged https://t.co/84ZvxkEBiG Jim Acosta (@Acosta) June 28, 2017Acosta s tweet went viral.Yeah Jim, if you can stop asking questions and do some real journalism by sitting in a studio and screaming all day.
That would be great.
;) Steve Mullis (@stevemullis) June 28, 2017Why is it that Sean Hannity can continuously come up with bogus stories and it's glossed over?
CNN takes responsibility and it's a scandal?
Brendan Steakelum (@steakelum) June 28, 2017He doesn't deserve a hug, but a kick in the balls would be great?
CA Cramer (@CurtCramer1) June 28, 2017@seanhannity needs much more than a hug.
Maybe start with a brain.
Greg Martin (@jgregorymartin) June 28, 2017That pathetic headline and tweet from the biased @FoxNews makes me love you even more Jim!!!
Keep fighting the good fight!
Brian (@BrianSMcDonald) June 28, 2017Keep rocking Jim!!
Tanja (@bambula) June 28, 2017You're doing something right Jim if a loser like Hannity is talking about you!
William Smith (@WilliamCSmithbr) June 28, 2017Since ur his #1 topic today, it means ur doing ur job well!
Keep prying and keep getting under their skin Jim.
Make America Honest Again!
American (@RealAmericanets) June 28, 2017You're my hero, @Acosta.
I love this era where journalists give no fucks and the stoicism of the past dies.
Give em hell.
#hannityunhugged Dena P (@Holdensmama) June 28, 2017We all remember Mustard-gate.
Barack Obama just took office and the big story at Fox News was that he used mustard on his hamburger.
That was a story the network covered for nearly a week.
Sean Hannity seemed to suggest that Obama is an elitist for using mustard.coming from a man who was unhinged when President O asked for Dijon mustard.
Gerry (@geminiLAca) June 28, 2017Sean Hannity peddled the Seth Rich story AFTER his own company retracted it.
CNN fired its employees for their mess up.
Chris (@yeschrisyes) June 28, 2017Jim-keep up the great work Fox/Hannity/Trump are showing just how much you are getting to them with your dogged, dedicated reporting-thx!!
Kati Angelini (@ktmoorestown) June 28, 2017???
Jim, you're the best!
Jennifer Newell (@WriterJen) June 28, 2017Jim, You're the best!
Keep at it!
DianeW (@BellaLuna468) June 28, 2017It s odd that Hannity supports WikiLeaks, an entity who supposedly believes in the transparency of governments, yet the idea of a transparent Trump administration rattles him to the core.
The Russia probe is not being reported accurately on Fox News and the network has begun losing its key demographics.
Breitbart.com has fallen from 45th place to 281st place in news site traffic ratings as the right-wing site ignores Trump s massive scandals.
Hannity, a conspiracy theorist, is using CNN to bash the press.
Three journalists resigned and an inaccurate story was retracted.
Meanwhile, Sean Hannity pushed the baseless Seth Rich murder conspiracy theory.
That prompted advertisers to flee from his show.
So, it s kind of cute that Hannity calls other outlets fake news.
Photo by Jennifer S. Altman/Contour by Getty Images.