The #NFL has become a showcase for an anti-law enforcement movement inspired by Barack Obama, Eric Holder, Al Sharpton and now, Black Lives Matter activist Colin Kaepernick and fellow NFL players First it was Beyonce s Black Panther, anti-cop performance during the 2016 Super Bowl.
The NFL was silent.Next, Cleveland Browns player Isaiah Crowell took to Instagram to post an ISIS like photo of a man wearing a black ski mask while slitting the neck of a cop.
The NFL was silent.The Dallas Cowboys wanted to wear a decal to show their support for the 5 cops slain by a Black Lives Matter supporter in their home town during a pre-game.
The NFL said, no.
Colin Kaepernick, Quarterback for the San Francisco 49er s thought it would be a great way to show his disdain for our law enforcement if he sat during our national anthem.
The NFL was silent.Apparently disrespecting our flag was totally okay with the NFL.Months later, more and more NFL players joined Kaepernick and his anti-American antics.
It wasn t long before high school and college players, who were inspired by the attention Colin Kaepernick received for his anti-American act, decided to follow suit.
Some knelt during the national anthem and performed a die in for a more dramatic effect.
All were disrespecting our flag.The NFL was SILENT.The time has come for America to show the NFL how we feel about their silence.
America s biggest football fans are turning off the TV in a silent protest that is sure to get the attention of an organization that cannot survive without fan support.So far, America s protest against the NFL seems to be working:It seems likely that the numerous #BoycottNFL online campaigns and fan outrage aimed at the National Anthem protests in the NFL have taken a toll in terms of viewership this season.
Additionally, cord-cutting continues to eat into traditional TV s ratings at an alarming rate.
But could there be something else at play?We re barely a year removed from the NFL setting all-time records in viewership, yet now the league is on pace for its lowest ratings in years.
That s a sharp and unexpectedly sudden turn.Given the politicized controversies and the variety of streaming options this year, have we reached a cumulative point of football fatigue?
The numbers suggest so.Last night s Monday Night Football matchup between the Minnesota Vikings and New York Giants drew a 9.1 overnight rating, an 8% drop from last year s comparable Week 4 game between the Detroit Lions and Seattle Seahawks.
The New England Patriots and Kansas City Chiefs game in 2014 earned a 9.6 rating.
Via: Forbes