A 12-year-old boy has just gone viral for absolutely shredding every anti-vaxxer s argument against vaccinating children.The boy, who goes by the name Marco Arturo, is a science-loving video blogger who uses his Facebook page to share his findings and ignite discussions related to science.
His latest video was a major hit, and has left the young boy shocked that his 2-minute video has been seen by more people than the population of Bahamas, Belize, Greenland, Monaco, Bermuda and Dominica combined.
His educational message to anti-vaxxers has been viewed millions of times, and when you watch it, you will understand why.Marco begins the video addressing two major concerns being proposed by anti-vaxxers: that vaccines are to blame for autism, and that they re part of a government conspiracy.
Marco says: We ve all been lied to by doctors and pharmaceutical companies about vaccines.
After a lot of research I realized that vaccines do and will cause autism.
At first it sounds like Marco is taking their side, but if anti-vaxxers thought they d just found their youngest recruit, they re dead wrong.
Seconds later, Marco holds up a folder labeled Evidence that vaccines cause autism, stating that he will explain his findings page by page.
By now, anti-vaxxers are probably salivating all over themselves, eager to hear the scientific proof that their ridiculous theories are correct.
However, when Marco opens the folder, all of the pages are blank.
Marco explains: I think it might be because there is absolutely no evidence to support the statement that vaccines are linked to autism in any way whatsoever.
To make anti-vaxxers even more furious that they d been tricked so expertly, Marco stresses how important vaccines are, and what they re REALLY responsible for: saving the lives of millions of children.
Marco closes by begging parents to get their children vaccinated, and reiterates that there is no evidence that can link vaccines to autism.In closing, Marco notices that one of the pages actually DOES have something on it, which might get gullible anti-vaxxers hopes up once again.
The page says one word: MIC, and Marco drops it.Here s Marco s brilliant video:Featured image via screenshot