Five Republican presidential hopefuls are scheduled to speak at an ultra-conservative pastor s religious freedom event, to prove what the GOP believes religious liberty is REALLY about i.e.
bigotry, exclusion and treating those who live different lifestyles like scum.On Saturday, Jeb Bush, Ben Carson, Ted Cruz, Carly Fiorina and Mike Huckabee will appear on the Free to Believe Broadcast, which is being hosted by the Family Research Council s Tony Perkins and Vision America s Rick Scarborough two men who have become infamous for their anti-gay activism.
Both Perkins and Scarborough have taken it upon themselves to fight against gay marriage because it is apparently violating their Christian rights.
In the past, Perkins has said that America s persecution of anti-gay Christians is inspiring ISIS and Scarborough said he ll burn to death to outlaw gay marriage.
Live and let live is completely lost on these two, and they intend to keep fighting with more fear-mongering, threats and punishment.Scarborough, who is a pastor, has repeatedly said that God punishes gay people for their immoral act with AIDS and has even called for a class action lawsuit against homosexuals in 2013.
Scarborough has claimed that if only Americans would wake up and stop supporting gay rights, God would probably give us the cure for AIDS today.
Last year, Scarborough said God would be completely justified in sending a nuclear bomb to destroy America just because Obama appointed a few gay ambassadors.
Here s a video of Scarborough preaching about AIDS and God s judgement on gays:Perkins record of homophobia isn t much better.It should come as no surprise that the five GOPers listed above would support such a vile event.
Cruz in particular has rained praise on Scarborough and similar anti-gay activists before, expressing his support for the Religious Right s rhetoric that God will punish gays.
Cruz, along with Huckabee, have also supported anti-gay radicals by making appearances at a 2015 conference hosted by Kevin Swanson, who believes gay people should be put to death.
The two candidates also stirred up controversy last year with their alliance to anti-gay Kentucky clerk Kim Davis, who became infamous for her refusal to issue marriage licenses to gay couples after the Supreme Court s ruling.Extreme events like the broadcast these five GOP candidates are planning to attend are a perfect example of what the party truly stands for.
It s not about religious freedom at all it s about hate, shame, fear and punishment and has very little to do with the true values of Christianity.
When Republican candidates attend and participate in events like this, they re showing America who they really are and what they truly support bigotry.
Hopefully, America is paying attention.Featured image via Alex Proimos / Flickr