The children were nestled all snug in their beds when OOPS!
an illegal alien pedophile slipped through their window.
These worst of the worst criminals are crossing our borders every day as our US Border Agents are given the stand down order by a man so hell-bent on a one-party system that he will risk the safety and security of our children and grandchildren.
Barack Obama s kids will never have to worry about safety, because We The Taxpayer will ensure that for the rest of their lives, they will be protected from the massive number of unchecked pedophiles and violent sexual offenders flowing across our open borders.
This is an outrage!
Yet the political pundits on the Left seem to be baffled by Donald Trump s popularity with the American voter Go figure McAllen, Texas Illegal aliens with previous convictions for sexual crimes continue to be a regular sight for U.S. Border Patrol agents working in this border region.On Wednesday, the Rio Grande Valley Sector (RGV) of the U.S. Border Patrol confirmed to Breitbart Texas that they had arrested five criminal aliens with a history of sexual offenses including a Guatemalan man who is considered a sexually violent predator.
On Sunday, agents caught a group of seven illegal aliens near the river and when they took them to the station for processing learned that one of them identified as Walter Leonel Vasquez Zacarias was a violent sexual predator, court records obtained by Breitbart Texas revealed.Court records revealed that Vasquez Zacarias had been convicted of aggravated sexual battery victim under 13 years of age in March 20, 2009.
For that offense, Vasquez was initially arrested on June 16, 2008 in Augusta County, Virginia and after his conviction was sentenced to 10 years in prison, but for unknown reasons, eight years from his sentence were suspended and he was deported in March 30, 2010 through Houston.Vasquez continues to be listed in various search engines as a violent sexual predator.In recent days, agents arrested four other criminal aliens with a sexually based criminal history, information provided to Breitbart Texas by Border Patrol revealed.
One of the aliens was from Guatemala and he had a previous conviction for aggravated sexual battery of a victim under the age of 13.
Another of the aliens was also from Guatemala and he had a conviction for aggravated criminal sexual abuse.
Two other aliens from Mexico had convictions for indecent liberties with a child and the other for sexual assault.
Border Patrol agents remain vigilant in their efforts to protect this nation from all threats including predators and convicted criminals attempting to illegally enter the country, said Chief Patrol Agent Manuel Padilla Jr. in a prepared statement.
Thanks to the hard work of Border Patrol agents, these dangerous criminals were unable to make it into our communities.
Via: Breitbart News