When Donald Trump s CNN stooges tried to defend his remarks about whether he would accept the results of the election or not, Van Jones scolded them into humiliation.Donald Trump s debate performance once again suffered because of his big mouth and his refusal to stop claiming that the election is rigged against him.When asked by moderator Chris Wallace on Wednesday night if he will concede defeat if the election results favor Hillary Clinton, Trump stunned everyone by basically leaving the question into an Election Day cliffhanger.
I will look at it at the time, Trump said.
I will keep you in suspense.
Trump s refusal to accept the democratic process is dangerous and is totally unprecedented in the history of our country.
Whoever loses the election has always conceded defeat and acknowledged the winner as the president-elect.But Trump may do the opposite and refuse to accept the results, which could touch off a Constitutional crisis as well as riots and acts of violence by Trump supporters in protest of their candidate s defeat.Trump supporters Jeffrey Lord and Kayleigh McEnany, however, actually tried defending Trump s toddler-like behavior during CNN s post-debate discussion.
And Van Jones was having none of it.He ripped both of Trump s mouthpieces to shreds and shamed them for defending a man who is unpatriotic and a disgrace to American Democracy.
This is a really sad night, Jones said.
This is a very sad night for the country.
You can t polish this turd.
I m going to be very, very clear about this.
Al Gore respected the Constitution, respected the process, respected every voter.
He went to our Supreme Court, asked for a resolution on his own terms as did George W. Bush.
And when the election results were certified, he told his party and base to stand down and accept this, even though a lot of us were very, very upset.
What you just got now was the nominee of a major party for the first time in our history signaling to the American people that he has so little faith in our institutions, that he has so little faith in our people, and so little faith in our courts, and so little faith in the Republican governors, the Republican secretaries of state across this country that he will not stand in front of his own country, in front of his own nation and say that he respects the process and the outcome.
Indeed, despite a close race in 2000 that could have gone Gore s way had the Supreme Court allowed the recount to continue, the former vice-president accepting the Court s decision and conceded the race, something Trump may actually refuse to do on November 8th even if he loses by a landslide.Trump s refusal to say that he will accept the results of the election if he loses angered Jones tremendously, enough that he called Trump unpatriotic and told Lord and McEnany that they should be ashamed of themselves for defending him.
That is an outrage!
The appalling lack of patriotism from this man.
The appalling lack of patriotism of this man to say this and praise Putin and Assad more than he has ever praised any American president.
He doesn t talk about George Washington, He doesn t talk about Ronald Reagan the way he talks about Putin and Assad.
This man has demonstrated an appalling lack of patriotism and you should be ashamed to defend it.
Here s the video via VidMe.At this point, anyone who has defended Trump should be ashamed of themselves, and frankly, none of them should be able to get a job after this election is over.
The things Donald Trump has said over the course of this campaign are indefensible and embarrassing.
As Americans, Lord and McEnany should be embarrassed by their candidate s temper tantrums and outrageous claims.
But they are not, and that s why Van Jones took it upon himself to put them in their place.Featured Image: Screenshot