Either Ammon Bundy himself or a clever imposter has taken Twitter and the media by storm.
The head of the Oregon Moron Militia, Bundy is the textbook case of the modern Murican patriot.
He is either just being himself and having a Twitter-fest of spewing out right-wing talking points or someone has decided to channel him, guessing the Bundy-esque things he might say.The rant was late-night, when the cold of the Oregon forest may have demanded a little something to make a person forget what aches.
More than a dozen tweets went out from the account, including a retweet of an interview Bundy did with a local blog.
Here are a few examples:As Thomas Paine said, It is the duty of the patriot to protect its country from its government.
#CitizensForConstitutionalFreedom Ammon Bundy (@Ammon_Bundy) January 5, 2016We are not about fear, we are not about force, we are not about intimidation.
#CitizensForConstitutionalFreedom Ammon Bundy (@Ammon_Bundy) January 6, 2016We came here in protest because of the force and the intimidation that we have seen in this county.
#CitizensForConstitutionalFreedom Ammon Bundy (@Ammon_Bundy) January 6, 2016With that being said, we will not be intimidated by the federal government for taking stand for something we strongly believe in.
Ammon Bundy (@Ammon_Bundy) January 6, 2016It even went so far as to compare the Moron Militia to Rosa Parks:We are doing the same thing as Rosa Parks did.
We are standing up against bad laws which dehumanize us and destroy our freedom.
Ammon Bundy (@Ammon_Bundy) January 6, 2016However, reporters now say the account is believed to be a fake.
Tony Dokoupil of MSNBC tweeted this:People, Ammon Bundy is not operating a twitter account.
I stood with him last night as tweets supposedly from him went out.
tonydokoupil (@tonydokoupil) January 6, 2016That seems to be compelling enough.
A reporter who was there at the time says Bundy isn t on Twitter at all.
That seemed like the case for sure when the account was suspended by Twitter, which has a process of verifying identities of celebrities and others in the news.
Then USA Today reported that the account was suspended and that it was re-instated.Another theory may be that much like many people on Twitter who have become public figures, Ammon Bundy has someone smarter than he is running his account.
With all the freedoming and interviews he s doing, Bundy probably doesn t have time for the social media onslaught for the movement, which has obviously been even less successful than the movement itself.Alas, the account is still alive and well and as of Wednesday at just after 11 AM EST tweeted this:The last thing we want is an armed confrontation.
We want this to end peacefully without anyone being harmed.
Ammon Bundy (@Ammon_Bundy) January 6, 2016That s the first real evidence that the account may not be real unless Ammon Bundy s goal of remaining for years to give a bird preserve to loggers, miners and ranchers has changed.
Or maybe he s just cold.Featured image via Twitter