During his presidential campaign, Donald Trump constantly made references to repealing and replacing the disaster that is Obamacare and Democrats collectively shuddered.
We all knew that nothing good could come of this.Now after six months in office, despite discovering that nobody knew healthcare could be so difficult, President Trump is about to deliver on his campaign promise as the Senate returns from a one-week recess to get back to the task at hand; trying to come to an agreement on their new healthcare bill known as the Better Care Reconciliation Act (BCRA), one that they have predominately kept the public in the dark about.Things are looking bleak, however, as even the Republican party remains divided on a bill that is not only going to raise out-of-pocket costs and restrict access to services for many, but also cause tens of millions to lose their health insurance completely over the coming decade.These charts might be able to put the entire healthcare debacle into perspective:1.
We All Know The Short-Term Medicaid Cuts Are Going To Suck: The new health care bill will save a ton of money, but roughly a quarter of those savings, or approximately $770 billion over the next decade, come from cuts to Medicaid.
The result is that 15 million less people will be enrolled in Medicaid under the new GOP bill than compared to Obamacare:2.
If You Thought That Was Bad, The Long-Term Effects Are Even Worse: The inflation rate for Medicaid spending beginning in 2025 is much slower, affecting those who rely on it the most, mainly children, the disabled, and the elderly.
In fact, by 2036 federal Medicaid spending on children will be reduced by almost a third and by a quarter for the disabled and the elderly when compared to the current law according to an analysis by the health consulting firm Avalere Health:3.
The Percentage Of Those Uninsured Will Rise In Every Single Age Bracket: That s right, under the BCRA 22 million people will lose their insurance (compared to 23 million under the version passed by the house) and every single age group will be affected, according to an assessment by the Congressional Budget Office:4.
It Will Also Rise In Every State, Including Those Whose Overwhelming Majority Voted For Trump: Yes, the new bill will drive up the uninsured rate by at least 21% and even up to 300% in every state by 2022, a new study by the Urban Institute found:5.
The Older and Poorer You Are, The More You Will Be Paying For Insurance Premiums If an analysis by the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities is to be believed, health insurance premiums are going to go through the roof, but those hit the worst will be older Americans:6.
The Older Middle Class Will be Hit Pretty Hard Too, As Their Tax Credits Will Go Through The Floor: The Center for Budget and Policy Priorities analysis also found that the tax credits that are available to help older people in the individual market afford health insurance are going to do just the opposite and plummet:7.
Even Employer Plans Aren t Immune: The GOP s new bill cuts to Medicaid and individual market subsidies have given the 150 million Americans that receive their health insurance through their employer a false sense of security, but they re not safe, either.
Not only will the new legislation bring back annual and lifetime limits in employer plans, as well as end penalties for companies that don t provide health insurance to their workers, but it will also allow employers to shift much of the cost of copays, deductibles and coinsurance onto their workers.
The Center for American Progress calculated how many will feel the crunch:8.
Hospitals Are Going To Feel The Crunch As Well: Hospitals aren t happy with the new bill and it is easy to see why, when you consider it will cause a large spike in uncompensated care for hospitals across all states: 9.
Finally, The New Bill Will Cause Massive Job Loss, Particularly In The Health Care Sector: By 2026, more than 1.45 million jobs will be lost as a direct result of the BCRA go by the results of a report by the Commonwealth Fund and George Washington University.
In fact, the report goes as far as to say that Every state except Hawaii would have fewer jobs and a weaker economy, however, it s not just health care employment that will be affected, but also retail and construction as well:So if you thought this latest rewrite of the GOP s health care legislation didn t affect you, you more than likely thought wrongly.
Even if it isn t your health care that is directly affected, chances are you will still feel the ripple effects of the bill on the economy, both on a state and national level.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images