The GOP has been having a field day spreading false rumors about Hillary Clinton s health, and it looks like karma has finally arrived.
On Tuesday morning, CNN medical correspondent Sanjay Gupta called out Donald Trump s personal doctor after noticing a questionable note about the extraordinary health of the Republican nominee.Trump s doctor, Dr. Harold Bornstein, had previously said that Trump would be the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency but Gupta was here to dispel that statement.
Delving into Bornstein s sketchy history, Gupta told host Chris Cuomo: He s been a doctor with Trump for 36 years, between him and his father.
He says he s a fellow of the American College of Gastroenterology, so a GI doc.
Interestingly, we called that particular organization (and) they said he was a member but he hasn t been a member there in over 20 years, since 95 now.
Suddenly, Trump s medical records and his physician seem just as untrustworthy as his campaign and yet no one should be surprised because Trump s campaign has been entirely comprised of lies and scams.The letter Gupta is referring to is a note which Trump released instead of real medical records (not sketchy at all, right?
).BornsteinIn examining the letter closely, Gupta said his instincts were set off by the fact that the doctor had used the word positive as a synonym for normal and several other terms in the letter didn t seem right.
To top it all off, Gupta discovered that the younger Bornstein wasn t telling the truth about his credentials, either: In fact, the hospital, Lenox Hill Hospital, says he s part of the section of gastroenterology he s not actually a member of that section.
He does have admitting privileges at the hospital but he s not (part of that section).
So there are some things in the letter with regard to his qualifications that are a little bit questionable.
Really, it was more, sort of, the language of this letter that I thought was quite surprising.
It wasn t written the way that many typical medical letters are written.
You can watch the segment where Gupta exposes Trump s con artist doctor below:.
@drsanjaygupta digs into Donald Trump s health report: The doctor s qualifications are a little bit questionable https://t.co/BoR8Fmitnz New Day (@NewDay) August 24, 2016Featured image via Facebook