President Barack Obama has recently announced that he will be issuing executive orders on guns after a series of horrific attacks involving firearms.
Predictably, the NRA and Republicans are absolutely freaking out over this, and one of the outspoken GOPers whining about this just happens to be Republican presidential candidate and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.During an interview with Fox News on Sunday, Christie criticized Obama for trying to improve gun control laws, calling him a boy for trying to keep the American people safe from terrorism and violence within the home.When Fox moderator Chris Wallace asked Christie what he thought about Obama s intention to expand background checks and prevent guns from getting into the hands of accused domestic abusers and terrorists, Christie went off on a rant: This President is a petulant child.
Whenever he can t get what he wants, because frankly, the American people have rejected his agenda by turning over the House and the Senate to republicans, going from 21 Republican governors when he came into office, now 31, now he wants to act as a king.
The fact is if he wants to make changes to these laws, go to congress and convince congress they re necessary, but this is going to be another illegal executive action which I m sure will be rejected by the courts.
When I become president, they will be stricken from executive action by executive action I will take.
You can watch Christie go off on Obama below: Christie had no issue criticizing Obama, even though he is unaware of what Obama will actually do, or the potential legality of those actions.
The crazy thing is, Christie later said that he is FOR the restriction on guns to terror watch suspects, but isn t comfortable with Obama taking immediate, responsible action!
Wallace pointed out that Christie had previously been supportive of gun control measures, and asked him if he d changed his stance.
Christie said: I haven t changed my tune.
I signed the bill that banned guns for people on the terror watch list.
As president, I would make sure that terror watch list was actually accurate.
Interestingly enough, Republicans are fine when Obama takes executive action for things like bombing Syria however when it comes to protecting women from their abusers or stopping terrorists from getting guns, they ve proven time after time that it s just not a priority.Tomorrow, Obama will see Attorney General Loretta Lynch to finalize his proposal.
A town hall will be held on Thursday, and the new executive actions on background checks are expected in the next few days.
Featured image via Marc Nozell / Flickr