Let s face it, Obama s second term has been so wildly successful, the only thing Republicans can do to prevent him from being the greatest president in modern history is to block everything.
This even includes things that Republicans keep screaming are necessary for the safety of the nation.If you need evidence of this, just look at Mitch McConnell s recent statement regarding ISIS, and why he claims he won t allow Obama s request for congressional approval for war come up for a vote.Well, the problem with what the president submitted for authorization to use military force restricted what he could do.
I can t imagine that I would be voting for an authorization for the use of military force that Barack Obama would sign because the one he submitted for us to take a look at restricted his activities, what he could do based upon conditions on the ground.Look, I don t want to tie the hands of the next president.
The next president may want to actually defeat ISIL.
And I think an AUMF, an authorization to use military force, that ties the president s hands behind his back is not something I would want to do to a new president who s going to have to clean up this mess, created by all of this passivity over the last eight years.McConnell s Obama Derangement Syndrome is so bad that he is literally refusing to allow Obama to go to war with, of all things, ISIS.
It would be hilarious if it was another nation doing this.Mitch McConnell is officially afraid that Obama will be able to defeat ISIS before he leaves office.
The Obama coalition has already liberated about forty percent of previously held ISIS territory and has prevented any gains by them since May of 2015.
If McConnell holds a vote for authorization for war against ISIS, every Republican would have to vote yes to approve Obama s actions.
If they didn t, the knives would come out for every one of them in the next election cycle.
If they vote yes, they would be seen as cooperating with the president.
If Obama made significant progress in the fight against the terror group, Republicans couldn t run on ISIS in 2016 and 2018.
If something bad happened, every Republican would get challenged for supporting a failed Democratic president.
The only way Republicans can stay safe is by doing absolutely nothing to fight what they would otherwise call the greatest threat to America.
That is just plain cowardly.Featured image via barefoot and progressive (altered)