In a more innocent time, say, 2015, you d be hard pressed to find a person willing to call Dick Cheney a voice of reason, (except perhaps, when talking about his daughter s right to marry the woman she loves), but in a speech at the Economic Times Global Business Summit, he appeared to be just that, only in his very neo-con way.
Cheney called Russia s meddling in the 2016 election an act of war.
There s no question that there was a very serious effort made by Mr. Putin and his government, his organization, to interfere in major ways with our basic fundamental democratic processes, said Cheney.
In some quarters that could be considered an act of war.
I would not underestimate the weight that we as Americans assign to Russian attempts to interfere with our process, said Cheney, finishing the thought.Source: Business InsiderFeeling a little conflicted?
Who can blame you.
For nearly 20 years, Dick Cheney has been itching to go to war with nearly anyone he can find.
On the other hand, he s right.
There is no more blatant an act of war than interference with our election.
Even Cheney is saying that Trump is likely an illegitimate president, and this is a man who only held his office as Vice President because the Supreme Court overturned the will of the people.Of course, the problem with that is that the Constitution has no mechanism for dealing with another country stealing our election.
We can, however, impeach, which might not put us in a much better position.
Could Donald Trump s election be nullified by some legal process, if it was found that either the Russian interference could be deemed decisive in accomplishing Trump s victory, or that Trump and his team have somehow contravened the U.S. public interest through a treasonous relationship with the Russians?
Article II of the United States Constitution states in Section 4 that The President, Vice President, and all civil Officers of the United States shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other High Crimes and Misdemeanors.
Source: Midas LetterThis, apparently, is exactly where we are.
While the smoking gun might still be classified, it s becoming increasingly apparent that there is a smoking gun there are several smoking guns, all covered with the fingerprints of Trump and his associates.While this might be just another case of Cheney banging the war drums, he s still right.
Russian interference was an act of war and while it shouldn t be addressed with bombs and boots on the ground, it should be addressed.Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images