Donald Trump did an interview with Larry King for his program on Russia Today, a Russian network that specializes in Putin s propaganda.
Naturally, Trump says it was an accident.
He didn t really mean to go on Russian TV.
Obviously, King tricked him into it!
What other explanation could there be?A trump spokeswoman told Kevin Cirilli from Bloomberg News that Trump was doing King a favor because they are old friends and The Donald is such a benevolent soul.
Naturally, when King asked him to do the interview, the GOP nominee assumed that he meant for his podcast.
(I guess he never heard that phrase about assuming.)
So it was totally not his fault that he ended up doing the interview for King s show on Russian Television.Trump campaign spokeswoman tells me that Trump "recorded a short interview with Larry King for his podcast as a favor to Mr.
King."
Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) September 9, 2016Trump campaign spokeswoman says that they thought Larry King interview was going to be on King's podcast not RT.
Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) September 9, 2016Trump campaign spokeswoman tells me that "what Larry King does with the interview content is up to him, we have nothing to do with it."
Kevin Cirilli (@kevcirilli) September 9, 2016Jason Miller, another Trump spokesman, gave the same story and claimed that Trump thought he was being interviewed for King s CNN podcast.
Mr. Trump was never told it would be shared anywhere else, Miller said.Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway jumped on the bandwagon during a Friday morning appearance on CNN s New Day, saying that Trump never realized he as being interviewed for the Russian network.
A former CNN superstar, Larry King, has a podcast, and Mr. Trump went on his podcast.
Nobody said it would be on Russian TV, Conway insisted.Trump has sung the praises of Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout the election and earlier in the week even said that Putin is a better president than Obama during the Command-in-Chief Forum.During the phone interview, King asked Trump what he thought about recent reports that, following the DNC hack, American officials are looking into allegations of Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election.
I think it s probably unlikely.
Maybe the Democrats are putting that out who knows, Trump replied.
If they are doing something, I hope that somebody s going to be able to find out so they can end it.
Because that would not be appropriate at all.
Featured image via via video screen capture