Fox News and other conservative outlets are doing everything they can to spread the conspiracy theory that Bernie Sanders is behind Chicago s protest that shut down Donald Trump s rally on Friday.
During a segment on Fox Business Network, Ben & Jerry s co-founder, Ben Cohen, was questioned about the matter.
Cohen responded appropriately by laughing at the show s host Neil Cavuto.Mentioning that Trump has accused Sanders of being behind the protest, he Cavuto asks Cohen What do you make of it that there were many Sanders protesters there?
Cohen responds, saying: I got no idea who was there.
But I can tell you that Donald Trump brings out a lot of strong feelings.
And I believe a fairly significant majority of Americans do not agree with Donald Trump and are embarrassed by the way he is conducting himself and .
Cohen is then interrupted by Cavuto, who says: Well that s your opinion and you re entitled to it.
Cavuto, bizarrely, then brings up the time that Sanders rally was interrupted by Black Lives Matter activists.
Cavuto s attempt to equivocate the two protests is rather weak.
When Sanders was interrupted, he let the two courageous young women who interrupted him, take the podium.
That showed Sanders has the one of the most important qualities of a great leader the wisdom to know when to listen.Trump and his supporters, on the other hand, have an entirely different attitude towards those who disagree with them.
Cohen responds to the Cavuto, saying: Well, there are two different ways of handling protesters.
I mean there has always been protesters, there has always been people who are trying to disrupt political speeches, but going and telling people to rough them up, beat them up it s not American, it s not what I want to see in my country.
Conservatives are so desperate to put this conspiracy out there, they are willing to completely destroy a woman s reputation by spreading a rumor so ridiculous it shouldn t even need a Snopes article to bust it.Yes, there were Sanders supporters at the rally that night.
They were involved in one of the greatest protests in history.
They did not, however, shut the rally down.
Trump choose to end the event.
Those Sanders supporters were also a very small group of people among thousands of activists who came to together to show Trump that he cannot just roll into any community and subject them to his vitriol without dissent.Chicago is a bastion of radical leftist resistance organizing.
I would personally have been surprised if the campaign hadn t seen the type of protest that took place on Friday.
This was going to happen no matter what other candidates are running.It should be noted that while Cohen s commentary on the protest is sound, he does seem to imply in the interview that Trump and Sanders might have a lot of common ground on issues.
This shouldn t in any way be interpreted to think that a Trump presidency wouldn t be disastrous.
Trump and Sanders may have some overlap in their observations of problems facing this nation though their policy prescriptions are as different as night and day.
Come election day in November, people need to accept that any candidate would be better than Trump.You can watch the Fox News segment below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0KOIkPoOZWwFeatured image from video screenshot via YouTube