Fox News host,Judge Jeanine Pirro appeared to endorse the summary execution of Muslims suspected of links to ISIS-related terrorism without due process under the law.Pierre asked her viewers if the U.S. should apply the death penalty for ISIS-related violence.
There was no real definition of what scale of violence or links to ISIS would apply.
And the U.S. already lists 41 crimes as capital meaning they are punishable by death including murder, assassination, espionage, treason, and death resulting from aircraft hijacking.
It is not supposed to matter what religious, racial or other motivation a suspect has of committing these crimes the court is only interested in whether they committed the acts or not.In short, there is no need for a new capital crime specific to Muslims.
Unless of course, you re a Fox News blowhard with an axe to grind.The responses from her viewers began as expected.A viewer named Josephine raged: They aren t afraid to kill us, so why should we be afraid to give them the death penalty?
While Kevin wrote: We ve got a few guns down here in Texas, and more than happy to handle it!, Pierre reads this out with a grin reaching from ear-to-ear as if she s about to break out into a Happy Birthday song or something when she is infact, calling for the summary execution of Muslims.She reads out Al s comment with the same hysterical smirk on her face: Why waste taxpayer money holding them in prison?
They d kill us in a heartbeat.
Adding her own snarky reply: Hey Al, and if we held them in prison Obama would let them out!
But even amongst the viewership of Fox News, there are some people who have a respect for law and order and the need to actually investigate a person suspected of committing a crime, rather than arbitrarily killing them.
One such viewer, named Kimberly, said: Don t get ahead of yourselves.
Everyone deserves a fair trial.
Let the courts decide.
This sent Pirro into a rage-induced tailspin of a rant in which she saw fit to lecture Kimberly.
Hey Kimberly, she snorts.
I drafted legislation all the time to increase sentences for punishment.
The courts are the ones that implement the laws that we draft.
Here we have a Fox News host openly endorsing the summary execution of Muslims, presumably Muslim-Americans, who are even suspected of ISIS-related violence.
A channel which calls it unconstitutional to ask a white christian to register his gun, thinks it s totally appropriate to summarily execute a Muslim.
Fair and balanced?
Not a chance.Featured Image vis Screengrab