Our 44th President just doing his part to keep the racial fire stoked Barack Obama claimed the United States was still infected with racism and dropped the N-word to make his point in his first ever podcast interview released this morning.
The President said: Racism, we are not cured of it.
And it s not just a matter of it not being polite to say n****r in public.
That s not the measure of whether racism still exists or not.
It s not just a matter of overt discrimination.
Societies don t overnight completely erase everything that happened 200 to 300 years prior.
The President said that attitudes about race had improved significantly since he was born to a white mother and black father 53 years ago.But the nation s history of slavery casts a long shadow, and that s still part of our DNA that s passed on .Obama made the remarks in a podcast for comedian Marc Maron following the fatal shooting of nine people last Wednesday at a historical black church in Charleston, South Carolina.Echoing his own Thursday statement on the shootings, the President said the nation must determine how it can respect the rights of firearm owners while keeping weapons out of the hands of the mentally unstable.
The question is just: is there a way of accommodating that legitimate set of traditions with some commonsense stuff that prevents a 21-year-old who is angry about something or confused about something, or is racist, or is deranged, from going into a gun store and suddenly is packing and can do enormous harm.
And that is not something that we have ever fully come to terms with.
It is thought he was referring to Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old South Carolinian accused of killing nine congregants at Emanuel AME church in Charleston.Obama s interview with comedian Marc Maron for his podcast, WTF, was recorded on Friday but was not posted online until this morning.The President lamented how often he had to speak to the country about a devastating loss and added: It s not enough just to feel bad.
There are actions that could be taken to make events like this less likely.
And one of those actions we could take would be to enhance some basic commonsense gun-safety laws that, by the way, the majority of gun owners support.
He reiterated his Thursday claim that there s no other advanced nation on earth that tolerates multiple shootings on a regular basis and considers it normal.
And to some degree that s what s happened in this country.
It s become something that we expect.
The President claimed the common framing of shooting sprees was that it s a crazy person you can t help it .And he said gun control legislation had been stymied in Congress because the grip of the NRA (National Rifle Association) on Congress is extremely strong .Via: UK Daily Mail