Wow Peter Schweizer, author of the chilling Clinton Cash book better make sure he has bodyguards wherever he goes, because his book could be the reason for the collapse of the Clinton Crime family s house of cards .Secret recordings of a suspect talking about the Clinton Foundation fueled an internal battle between FBI agents who wanted to pursue the case and corruption prosecutors who viewed the statements as worthless hearsay, people familiar with the matter said.Agents, using informants and recordings from unrelated corruption investigations, thought they had found enough material to merit aggressively pursuing the investigation into the foundation that started in summer 2015 based on claims made in a book by a conservative author called Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich, these people said.The account of the case and resulting dispute comes from interviews with officials at multiple agencies.Starting in February and continuing today, investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and public-corruption prosecutors became increasingly frustrated with each other, as often happens within and between departments.
At the center of the tension stood the U.S. attorney for Brooklyn, Robert Capers, who some at the FBI came to view as exacerbating the problems by telling each side what it wanted to hear, these people said.
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Capers declined to comment.The roots of the dispute lie in a disagreement over the strength of the case, these people said, which broadly centered on whether Clinton Foundation contributors received favorable treatment from the State Department under Hillary Clinton.
Senior officials in the Justice Department and the FBI didn t think much of the evidence, while investigators believed they had promising leads their bosses wouldn t let them pursue, they said.These details on the probe are emerging amid the continuing furor surrounding FBI Director James Comey s disclosure to Congress that new emails had emerged that could be relevant to a separate, previously closed FBI investigation of Mrs. Clinton s email arrangement while she was secretary of state.On Wednesday, President Barack Obama took the unusual step of criticizing the FBI when asked about Mr. Comey s disclosure of the emails.Amid the internal finger-pointing on the Clinton Foundation matter, some have blamed the FBI s No.
2 official, deputy director Andrew McCabe, claiming he sought to stop agents from pursuing the case this summer.
His defenders deny that, and say it was the Justice Department that kept pushing back on the investigation.WSJ The political organization of Virginia Gov.
Terry McAuliffe, an influential Democrat with longstanding ties to Bill and Hillary Clinton, gave nearly $500,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an official at the Federal Bureau of Investigation who later helped oversee the investigation into Mrs. Clinton s email use.Campaign finance records show Mr. McAuliffe s political-action committee donated $467,500 to the 2015 state Senate campaign of Dr. Jill McCabe, who is married to Andrew McCabe, now the deputy director of the FBI.The Virginia Democratic Party, over which Mr. McAuliffe exerts considerable control, donated an additional $207,788 worth of support to Dr. McCabe s campaign in the form of mailers, according to the records.
That adds up to slightly more than $675,000 to her candidacy from entities either directly under Mr. McAuliffe s control or strongly influenced by him.
The figure represents more than a third of all the campaign funds Dr. McCabe raised in the effort.Mr.
McCabe s supervision of the Clinton email case in 2016 wasn t seen as a conflict or an ethics issue because his wife s campaign was over by then and Mr. McAuliffe wasn t part of the email probe, officials said.Much of the skepticism toward the case came from how it started with the publication of a book suggesting possible financial misconduct and self-dealing surrounding the Clinton charity.
The author of that book, Peter Schweizer a former speechwriting consultant for President George W. Bush was interviewed multiple times by FBI agents, people familiar with the matter said.The Clinton campaign has long derided the book as a poorly researched collection of false claims and unsubstantiated assertions.
The Clinton Foundation has denied any wrongdoing, saying it does immense good throughout the world.Mr.
Schweizer said in an interview that the book was never meant to be a legal document, but set out to describe patterns of financial transactions that circled around decisions Hillary Clinton was making as secretary of state.
As 2015 came to a close, the FBI and Justice Department had a general understanding that neither side would take major action on Clinton Foundation matters without meeting and discussing it first.
In February, a meeting was held in Washington among FBI officials, public-integrity prosecutors and Leslie Caldwell, the head of the Justice Department s criminal division.
Prosecutors from the Eastern District of New York Mr. Capers office didn t attend, these people said.The public-integrity prosecutors weren t impressed with the FBI presentation, people familiar with the discussion said.
The message was, We re done here, a person familiar with the matter said.Justice Department officials became increasingly frustrated that the agents seemed to be disregarding or disobeying their instructions.Following the February meeting, officials at Justice Department headquarters sent a message to all the offices involved to stand down, a person familiar with the matter said.The FBI had secretly recorded conversations of a suspect in a public-corruption case talking about alleged deals the Clintons made, these people said.
The agents listening to the recordings couldn t tell from the conversations if what the suspect was describing was accurate, but it was, they thought, worth checking out.For entire story: WSJ