Well, we all know liberal goofball Sarah Silverman is attention deprived because she s always the loudest and most disgusting comic in the room.
It s just embarrassing when she calls impassioned Bernie followers ridiculous for not buying into the Hillary Grifter scam.
The worst part of all this is that goofball Senator Al Franken still thinks he s on the stage at Saturday Night Live.
The guy is such a super self absorbed elitist Dem that he makes you want to gag on his every word.
Did you see his faux act of surprise and awe tonight?
He s so lucky there are dumb Americans out there who ll reelect his stupid ASS Don t you deserve better than this self absorbed pompous ass of a guy?Fellow former Saturday Night Live cast member Sarah Silverman is speaking tonight at the Democratic National Convention but before the Masters of Sex actress and long-time Sen.Bernie Sanders supporter was on stage, Sen Al Franken unleashed his bite against Republican nominee Donald Trump and praised Hillary Clinton.
However, Silverman was unsuccessful in her own later remarks quelling the very vocal supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders.
To the Bernie or bust people, you are being ridiculous, the Sanders fan told delegates who offered boos and chants of Bernie over pleas for party unity in an increasingly frayed DNC.RelatedDNC Apologizes To Bernie Sanders As He Urges Supporters To Play Nice At Convention I m Al Franken, Minnesotan, Senator and world-renowned expert on right-wing megalomaniacs Rush Limbaugh, Bill O Reilly, and now Donald Trump, said the author of 1996 s Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations to the audience earlier in primetime Monday.Having kept a pretty low national profile since joining the Senate in 2009, Franken tonight ripped into the GOP nominee and former Celebrity Apprentice host.
Frankly, as a proud alum of Trump U, I think we may be underestimating Donald Trump, the Senator said of the developer s lawsuit-slapped and controversial branded university.
Sure, he s scammed a lot of people, but did you know that Trump University s School of Ripping People Off is ranked second in the nation?
Right behind Bernie Madoff University?
That s no mean feat.
WATCH: Sarah Silverman tells Bernie supporters they're being ridiculous' https://t.co/eBGOxCMQcf #DemsInPhillyhttps://t.co/MG2FtEGxYW ABC7 News (@abc7newsbayarea) July 26, 2016 Via: deadline