Sen. Elizabeth Warren is on a roll with her brutal eviscerations of Donald Trump.
Following her epic Twitter takedown of the racist billionaire earlier this week, Warren spoke to the Associated Press.
It was during this interview that Warren once again took the opportunity to give the GOP presidential front-runner another tongue lashing.
Warren also took a break from her avowed silence on the Democratic primary race to praise Bernie Sanders.Warren says that Trump s claims about his business successes are major exaggerations.
In reality, Trump s wealth comes from his father.
Warren says that the only way that Trump has been able to retain his inheritance is by cheating people and defrauding people.
Warren goes on to say: Donald Trump claims that the reason he s qualified to be president of the United States is that he is a very, very, very successful businessman.
Donald Trump is not a great business success and it s time he s called on it.
This isn t the first time Warren has called out Trump for his bad business decisions.
Warren, a former Harvard Law professor, who specializes in bankruptcy law, wrote about Trump s nefarious failed business schemes.
She also urged people to listen to the experts who ve concluded he s so bad at business that he might have more money today if he d put his entire inheritance into an index fund and just left it alone.
Warren also went on to note Trump s Mussolini quote gaffe.Warren also spent some time praising Bernie Sanders and the influence he has had on the Democratic Party and the nation.
He s out there.
He fights with the heart.
This is who Bernie is.
He has put the right issues on the table both for the Democratic Party and for the country in general so I m still cheering Bernie on.
However, Warren does say that Clinton or Sanders would be far better leaders than what the GOP is offering.
While the Democrats are saying, Gee is the right answer to improve the Affordable Care Act in the following six ways or go all the way to single payer which is a good debate to have the Republicans are saying they are going to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with something they can t quite describe.
Warren has not disclosed who she voted for in the primary election.
However, she did make progressive politicos sitting on the edge of her seat, saying that she will make an endorsement.
That being said, she didn t say is she plans on making an endorsement before the primary election is over.
Should she do so, I guarantee it will be done at a key strategic moment in the race.
Possibly before the Washington caucus or the New York primary.
Though, a pre-nomination endorsement seems unlikely.You can read the AP interview with Warren here.Featured image from Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images