One of the awesome things you get to do when you win a championship is visit the White House and meet the President of the United States.
This is a long-standing honor that has been coveted by these outstanding athletes.
And if we re going to keep things totally real, with President Obama in the White House, these visits are much more than just honorable, they re outright fun.The Golden State Warriors won the NBA Championship this past year, and President Obama spoke of how talented they are and what role models they ve become.
Many of the players even got to meet with students from Obama s mentorship program My Brother s Keeper as can be seen below:Students from The @WhiteHouse Mentorship Program meet the @warriors!
#MyBrothersKeeper #MentorIRL pic.twitter.com/hthlcY1toZ NBA (@NBA) February 4, 2016The entire event was pretty typical of how Obama has greeted every championship team from nearly every sport who has had the privilege of meeting the president at the White House.
However, things got pretty hilarious when the president decided to throw a little light-hearted shade at Warriors star point guard Stephen Curry.The president teased Curry for clowning during the Warriors game against the Washington Wizards the night before.
He said: For those of you who watched the game against the Wizards last night, he was to use slang he was clowning.
He then mimicked Curry s jumps, and it was hilarious, making the whole team burst with laughter.
Honestly, what other president would you ever see doing this, let alone do it so flawlessly and with great affect.
I don t care if I sound like an Obama fangirl here, but he s the coolest president ever and I wish he could stay forever.
Damn term limits!President Obama on Steph Curry s performance against the Wizards: He was clownin https://t.co/3fWZbqp7BA pic.twitter.com/IhOIDRFwE7 NBCWashington (@nbcwashington) February 4, 2016Watch the whole event here, with his remarks about Curry beginning around the 8:15 mark: Video/Featured image from NBCWashington