Only two weeks after U.S. congressman Steve Scalise and four others were shot during a baseball practice in a Washington suburb by a man with a history of lashing out at Republicans, a Florida lawmaker decided he wasn t taking any chances.
After someone threatened his life on a Facebook page, state Rep. Jose Felix Diaz, R-Miami, told police.
HADN T TAKEN HIS MEDS And on Monday, Northwest Miami-Dade resident Steve St. Felix, 34, was arrested and charged with written threats with intent to do bodily injury.
Police said St. Felix was fed up with the Republican Party and that he hadn t taken his meds when he posted the threat.
It s unclear what condition the medications were treating.The threat I ll kill your ass and you better not show up to the next REC meeting was quickly removed from the Facebook page, police said.
It appeared to refer to the Republican Executive Committee, the name of the local Miami-Dade County GOP.RECENT THREATS AND THE SHOOTING OF SCALISE CALL ATTENTION TO THREATS:On June 14, Steve Scalise, the U.S. House Republican whip, was badly injured during an early morning shootout in Alexandria, Virginia, as a group of Republicans practiced for their annual baseball game against Democrats.Two members of Scalise s Capitol Police security detail, a congressional aide and a lobbyist were also shot and injured.
The shooter, James T. Hodgkinson, a 66-year-old from a Belleville, Ill., a suburb outside St. Louis, was shot and killed.Two members of Scalise s baseball squad said they spoke with Hodgkinson before the practice and that he asked them what party they were affiliated with.Read more: Miami HeraldThe interesting thing is that Facebook just hired thousands to delete hate speech Facebook hires thousands to launch crackdown on hate speech Facebook s statement: Our current definition of hate speech is anything that directly attacks people based on what are known as their protected characteristics race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, sex, gender, gender identity, or serious disability or disease, said Richard Allan, Facebook vice president of public policy for Europe, the Middle East and Africa said in the blog post.
There is no universally accepted answer for when something crosses the line.
Although a number of countries have laws against hate speech, their definitions of it vary significantly.
This could get really interesting with Facebook being called out for NOT catching things like the incident above but deleting a harmless conservative post.
Censorship is getting even worse at Facebook.