Donald Trump is a threat to the continuing survival of our nation and democracy.
And the only thing that can stop him is the Electoral College.That s why Harvard law professor Lawrence Lessig is openly calling upon the Electoral College to save us from this abomination that has made a mockery of our Constitution without even setting one foot inside the White House yet.Most Americans would agree that the Electoral College is an outdated part of our election that should be removed.
But in this instance, it the last hope America has to keep Trump and his racist minions from destroying our country.In an op-ed for the Washington Post, Lessig points out that the Founding Fathers adopted the Electoral College as an additional check on our elections to make sure that demagogues and con artists like Donald Trump don t get to be president.Hillary Clinton currently has more than a 2 million vote lead over Trump in the popular vote, which means the will of the American people has been trampled by an electoral system that Republicans may very well have rigged this year, which is why Jill Stein has raised enough money to trigger a recount in three battleground states.On December 19th, the electors will meet to cast their votes for president and vice-president.
And when they do, they have a chance to put the rightful winner of the 2016 Election in the White House.According to Lessig, the Electoral College is not meant to deny a reasonable judgment by the people.
It is meant to be a circuit breaker just in case the people go crazy.
In this election, the people did not go crazy.
The winner, by far, of the popular vote is the most qualified candidate for president in more than a generation.
Like her or not, no elector could have a good-faith reason to vote against her because of her qualifications.
Choosing her is thus plainly within the bounds of a reasonable judgment by the people.
The framers left the electors free to choose.
They should exercise that choice by leaving the election as the people decided it: in Clinton s favor.In short, electors need to do the right and moral thing and vote for Hillary Clinton, even if it means being fined for voting their conscience.Over 4 million Americans have already signed a petition asking the Electoral College to vote for Clinton.
Fell free to sign it by clicking here.These electors have a responsibility to keep our country from burning down to the ground.
Trump has already proven that he isn t taking the presidency seriously and that he intends put our government into the hands of people who want to destroy it.Lessig is right to ask the electors to switch their votes to Clinton and the rest of us need to ask them to do it, too.
We need to support them and tell them we have their back.
Sure, conservatives will bitch about it.
But at this point, who really gives a shit about them anyway?
They voted for a tyrant, therefore, their opinions no longer matter.Featured Image: Zach Gibson/Getty Images