Friday was Sasha Obama s 15th birthday.
All around the nation, people sent her warm birthday wishes as the media admired her evolution from the President s adorable child to a smart, classy young lady.
To make the day even more special, it was also the day her big sister Malia graduated from high school, something that was largely celebrated across the nation as the eldest First Daughter prepares to go to Harvard after a gap year.Even conservatives got in on wishing Sasha a happy birthday though their greetings were of a very different nature to those most shared.
Right-wing trash dispensary and ridiculously-named Facebook page, The Resistance: The Last Line of Defense, posted a question for their racist, uneducated, Trump-loving followers.
A photo of Sasha was accompanied by the words, What message do you have for Sasha Obama on her birthday?
To start off the social media lynching, the conservative propagandists added the message, I know what Id tell ANY Obama I came face to face with.
Following like lemmings, the Stupid Part of America obliged, doing what they were told.
They shared what they would love to say to a teenage girl not yet old enough to drive, whose father happens to be President of the United States.
Though she has never embroiled herself in any controversy, said anything negative to anyone, and is a fucking teenager, the horrible people who follow that page unleashed their hatred, calling her a spoiled brat, demanding that she go back to Kenya (where she is certainly not from), ordering her out of the White House, calling her a monkey, and even suggesting that she be raped.
I took a moment to speak with one of the page administrators about the post.
It went pretty much how you d expect.
I opened with a nice, super-professional greeting and a simple query about the post.
The administrator responded with complete nonsense, asked me a question, then blocked me:This isn t the first time Sasha Obama has been a target of Right-Wing hate.
In 2013, conservatives circulated a disgusting Photoshopped picture showing President Obama with his hand down Sasha s pants.This was widely circulated, with the creator and friends even providing evidence that Barack Obama was stupid enough to molest his daughter, in public with cameras rolling, in front of the rest of his family.It is unknown why conservatives do the things that they do, but one thing is important to remember: all of these people will be voting for Trump in November.
Will you be there to vote blue?Featured image via screengrab