It s a wonder why Donald Trump has been divorced so many times.
He s clearly such a good catch (note sarcasm).Trump s going to tell us time and time again how wonderful he is, how great is for the nation, and what fantastic things he s going to do.
Here s the thing he s all talk.
And now Buzzfeed has reminded us that he s not that great of a father either or at least in the sense that a great father is one that actually wants to spend time with their kids.While he touts how well he can provide for his family, he apparently thinks that money can by love, and who knows, maybe it does.
Yet, he most certainly made if very apparent during a 2006 interview on the Opie and Anthony show that he wants nothing to do with actually taking care of his children, besides monetary support.When asked if he changes diapers, he said: No, I don t do that There s a lot of women out there that demand that the husband act like the wife and you know there s a lot of husbands that listen to that.
So you know, they go for it.
They go for it ?
Like their being conned into actually caring for their child.
God forbid a father actually want to take part in raising a child.He added: If I had different type of wife.
I probably wouldn t have a baby, ya know, cause that s not my thing.
I m really like a great father but certain things you do and certain things you don t. It s just not for me.
No, that s not being a great father, that s being a sperm donor that provides monetary assistance.To reiterate, he doesn t seem to think men should be acting like the wife.
He also said: I mean, I won t do anything to take care of them.
I ll supply funds and she ll take care of the kids.
It s not like I m gonna be walking the kids down Central Park.
And apparently during a 2005 Howard Stern interview Trump brought up how he hated the fact his ex-wife Marla Maples had the audacity to suggest he bring their daughter on a walk.
Well, Marla used to say, I can t believe you re not walking Tiffany down the street, you know in a carriage.
Right, I m gonna be walking down Fifth Avenue with a baby in a carriage.
It just didn t work.
This really just goes down deeper to the fact that Donald Trump doesn t respect women at all.
He seems to thoroughly believe in gender roles, and I bet the fact that he may be running against Hillary Clinton in the general election sends shivers down his spine.
How dare a woman think they can do a man s work after all, right?
I mean, he s made it clear a man shouldn t do women s work.
Trump can tout how great he is with women until he s blue in the face, but it s all a lie, just like with most everything else he says.
He s a businessman trying to sell himself on being president, but he s clearly not remotely qualified.
The fact that he s doing as well as he is speaks to the fact that he does know how to sell.
However, come the general election with a far smarter electorate, that s reaches beyond the Republican base of voters, they will make sure he never sets foot in the Oval Office.Featured Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images