Donald Trump is taking a lot of fire over the letter his alleged physician wrote about his health, but it got hilariously worse on Thursday.Dr.
Jennifer Gunter appeared on CNN with Chris Cuomo to discuss the letter, which was written in December by Dr. Harold Bornstein in lieu of an actual medical report.In her own examination of the letter, Gunter questioned Bornstein s terminology and picked apart how he diagnosed the Republican nominee throughout.
Being able to unequivocally state that somebody would be the healthiest individual is just not a factual statement, right?
Gunter said.
You would have had to examine every other president to be able to say that, so that s incorrect.
And then Gunter hilariously hammered how Bornstein described Trump s lab test results.
Lab results aren t reported as being astonishingly excellent or not we give lab values of positive or negative.
Then there s the fact that he says all of Mr. Trump s results are positive which, of course, would be a bad thing.
When I tell someone they have gonorrhea, when they have a positive test for gonorrhea, they re not happy about that.
That s not astonishingly excellent.
Nope, I m guessing they would not be, doc, Cuomo replied.
Interesting example you give there.
So has Donald Trump ever had gonorrhea?
It s definitely a question worth asking since Trump brags about how many women he has slept with.
In 1997, Trump told radio host Howard Stern that sleeping around was his personal Vietnam and that he was lucky that he didn t contract any sexually transmitted diseases.Of course, Trump would never admit it if he did contract an STD, so who is to say he didn t lie when he talked to Stern?After all, all of his test results were apparently positive according to his physician.
We don t know why Donald Trump lost 15 pounds he says he likes to eat KFC a lot, so that s a concern, Gunter continued.
That s really important, you can t put a piece of medical information out there and not follow it up.
Gunter then called for Bornstein to explain the inaccuracies stated in the letter.
There s a lot of inaccuracies, and I think that the doctor should explain why he wrote it that way.
If that s his letter and that s how he writes, what s the big deal about saying, This is me, and gosh, I made a mistake in saying which section that doesn t exist at Lenox Hospital that I thought I was in.
So I think there s a lot of a inconsistencies, and you have a document that s this important it should be accurate.
I want my health information to be accurate, I want the information I write about someone else to be accurate, and I guess we all wonder, if this part s inaccurate, what else is inaccurate, too?
Here s the video via Twitter.Doctor lays out problems with Donald Trump s health letter: There s a lot of inaccuracies https://t.co/hex4QIjQDG https://t.co/690IMjNBom New Day (@NewDay) August 25, 2016As Donald Trump and his minions continue to spread false claims about Hillary Clinton s health, it s only fair to start asking questions about his own.
And that means Trump s doctor note is fair game.The fact is, however, that Hillary has released her own detailed medical report written by her doctor while Trump continues to hide his own medical history from the voting public.
He hoped that a bullshit letter would be enough, but going after Hillary s health only brought up new questions about his own.
Voters deserve to see Trump s real medical history.
If he is as healthy as he brags he is then he should have nothing to fear.
But just like his taxes, Trump clearly doesn t want his medical history revealed because it could damage him even more than he has done to himself already.Featured image via screen capture