Barack Obama is turning his new home in the posh Kalorama section of the nation s capital just two miles away from the White House into the nerve center of the mounting insurgency against his successor, President Donald J. Trump.Obama s goal, according to a close family friend, is to oust Trump from the presidency either by forcing his resignation or through his impeachment.And Obama is being aided in his political crusade by his longtime consigliere, Valerie Jarrett, who has moved into the 8,200-square-foot, $5.3-million Kaloroma mansion with the former president and Michelle Obama, long time best friends.Jarrett played a vital if at times low-key role in the Obama presidency.
She lived in the White House, dined with the Obamas, and help shape his domestic and foreign policies.The former president has set up an office on the West End of the national s capitol, where he recently hosted an open house for his White House staff including Joe Biden, Susan Rice, Josh Earnest and Jarrett.But the office, part of his post presidency perks, cannot be used for political purposes.
The rent on his home is paid by him personally.On Tuesday, former Attorney General Eric Holder revealed that Obama is indeed getting closer to making his public reappearance in politics.
It s coming.
He s coming, Holder said speaking to reporters.
And he s ready to roll.
According to the family source, Obama was at first reluctant to assume the role of leader of the opposition.
No longer the most powerful man in the world, he was just observing Trump and not liking what he saw, said the source.
He was weary and burned out after eight years in office.
But Valerie convinced him that he didn t have any choice if he wanted to save his legacy.
And, as usual, he bowed to Valerie s political wisdom and advice.
In his only public comment against Trump since leaving the presidency, Obama came out in support of the protests opposing President Donald Trump s executive order to restrict immigration from predominantly Muslim countries.A spokesman said the former president thinks they re citizens exercising their Constitutional right to assemble, organize and have their voices heard by their elected officials is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake.
Daily Mail