President Trump visits Florida hospital, praises first responders following school shooting: It s very sad something like that could happen, but the job the doctors did, the nurses, the hospital, the first responders, law enforcement really incredible.
A White House statement said that the Trumps were visiting to pay their respects and thank the medical professionals for their life-saving assistance in response to shooting.NEW: "The job they ve done is incredible," Pres.
Trump says of doctors, first responders as he and first lady Melania Trump meet Parkland shooting victims at Broward Health North Hospital https://t.co/n6Ltn0H0nn pic.twitter.com/gKN8aHbRz4 CBS News (@CBSNews) February 17, 2018POTUS AND FLOTUS THEN MET WITH FLORIDA LAW ENFORCEMENT:After President Trump and First Lady Melania visited with victims, families and the incredible medical teams at Broward Health North they headed to thank the amazing law enforcement officers at the @BrowardSheriff s Department, where a roundtable is now underway.
pic.twitter.com/JNYrVovGl6 Dan Scavino Jr. (@Scavino45) February 17, 2018THE PRESIDENT BRIEFLY SPOKE WITH REPORTERS AFTER THE MEETING WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT:Moments ago, @POTUS and @FLOTUS met with Florida law enforcement officials at the @browardsheriff's Office.
pic.twitter.com/jbMU6aIkUA Fox News (@FoxNews) February 17, 2018At Broward Health North Hospital, Pres and Mrs Trump visited with school shooting patients and medical personnel.
Pres said students making incredible recovery.
And says doctors and first responders had done an incredible job.At Broward Health North Hospital, Pres and Mrs Trump visited with school shooting patients and medical personnel.
Pres said students making "incredible recovery."
And says doctors and first responders had done an incredible job.
pic.twitter.com/iLomsQXknf Mark Knoller (@markknoller) February 17, 2018The president briefly spoke with reporters:"It's very sad something like that could happen," Pres Trump said of the Parkland school shooting after visiting wounded students in the hospital.
Hails work of medical staff and first responders.
Declines to respond to question about gun control.
pic.twitter.com/hlvMPwhK1M Mark Knoller (@markknoller) February 17, 2018PRESIDENT TRUMP POSTED PHOTOS FROM HIS VISIT:Our entire Nation, w/one heavy heart, continues to pray for the victims & their families in Parkland, FL.
To teachers, law enforcement, first responders & medical professionals who responded so bravely in the face of danger: We THANK YOU for your courage!
https://t.co/3yJsrebZMG pic.twitter.com/ti791dENTy Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2018