Rachel Maddow never pulls any punches when it comes to holding politicians accountable, and she made no exception Tuesday night when she lit in to presumptive GOP 2016 presidential nominee Donald Trump.
In fact, Maddow called Trump out for what he is: a con artist.
Not only that, but it seems that Trump s campaign is nothing more than a scam to line his own pockets, and Maddow seems to be chomping at the bit to prove it.It seems that Trump s campaign has raised roughly $6.7 million in the month of May.
Of course, raising money is normal for political campaigns, but there s a problem regarding the Trump campaign most of the money he raised went right into his own pockets, or those of his family members.
Further, more than 10% meaning more than $6 million of the roughly $63 million in expenditures for Trump s campaign has gone to the real estate mogul s own properties.
But wait it gets better.
Trump is actually paying HIMSELF to campaign for president.
Without further ado, here is a screenshot of that proof, from Federal Elections Commission filings, via Winning Democrats and Twitter:Looks like the candidate is drawing a salary?
pic.twitter.com/3IZrnxMPnK southpaw (@nycsouthpaw) June 21, 2016Well, Rachel Maddow was having none of it.
She unleashed her wrath on Trump s apparent scam, and his rolling the dice with a presidential election in an effort to make more money like the con artist we all know him to be.
She said: These are not the kinds of expenditures you would expect from someone who s actually running a campaign for President who actually intends to win the presidency.
It s more like a concert tour.
It s more like a promotional tour for a celebrity who s hocking something than it is like a campaign where you need people to go out and vote for you in November.I mean, the biggest expenses are private jets, renting out venues preferably ones where Mr. Trump gets to pay rent to himself for using that venue and also swag.
Merchandise is what the Trump campaign is spending its money on.
Speaking of merchandise, the campaign gets its hats from a woman who sits on the board at Nazi sympathizer Eric Trump s charitable foundation.
The polite way to say this is it s a racket.
It s not designed to necessarily win the election.
While Trump might win, Maddow points out that it s pretty clear it s not the aim.
It is a byproduct of what is the principal effort, which is to make money.
So, in other words, Trump is using a United States presidential election to make money.
He doesn t want to be president.
He wants to line his own pockets.
Let s just hope that he doesn t manage to actually win an office he clearly doesn t even want.
Trump wants power and money.
This campaign and this election are nothing more than a scam and a power play for Donald Trump.
We don t need this person as our Commander-in-Chief.Watch the evidence of Trump s con artistry at the expense of the American people below:Featured image via video screen capture