It s a given that any Democrat from California is going to be against President Trump but this guy is through the roof against Trump to the point where he s seething with bitterness.
PLEASE REMEMBER THAT THIS GUY IS PART OF THE COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING TRUMP!I just happened to see this interview and could not believe my ears!
Not only are they over the top with the bashing of our president but they are lying through their teeth!Here s exactly what President Trump said about Putin: What I said is, I believe Putin believes that, Trump said at the press conference in Hanoi, Vietnam.
I believe that he feels that he and Russia did not meddle in the election.
As to whether I believe it or not, I m with our agencies, especially as currently constituted, with their leadership.
I believe in our intel agencies.
I ve worked with them very strongly Rep. Adam Schiff (D. Calif.) said on Monday that President Donald Trump is putting Russian President Vladimir Putin before the interests of the United States.
Schiff, Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, agreed with the Andrea Mitchell Reports host and argued Trump insinuated with his comments that the intelligence agencies are political and can t be trusted ADAM SCHIFF NEEDS TO GO!
He s saying basically you just can t trust them because they re part of a political establishment, but now I ve got my own political establishment.
I m doing my own politicization of the intelligence agencies so now I can rely on them,' Schiff said.
That s a horrible message that nobody within the IC intelligence community believes or accepts, but it denigrates the agencies nonetheless, Schiff continued.
This is just how he operates.
Schiff said Trump is trying to portray the message that everything that came before him was awful, and bad, and wrong, and now everything is great.
THE COMMENT BELOW IS UNBELIEVABLE AND A TOTAL LIE: He doesn t put the country first He s putting Vladimir Putin first, Schiff said.
He s putting his own that is, Donald Trump s own narrow, personal self-interest before the country, and that is a terrible quality to have in the President of the United States.
Read more: WFB