You almost have to feel sorry for Whoopi Goldberg.
Her emotional arguments are no match for the very smart conservative Brian Kilmeade, who prefers to use facts and rely on actual history to support his positions.On the 16th anniversary of 9/11, Fox News Brian Kilmeade asked Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke about the future of the 9/11 Memorial given the current climate of removing memorials that negatively affect some snowflake s politically correct sentimentalities.
Do you worry 100 years from now that someone s going to try and take that memorial down like they re trying to remake our memorials today?
Kilmeade asked.
I m one that believes we should learn from history, Zinke responded, and I think our monuments are part of our country s history.
We can learn from it.
And since we don t put up statues of Jesus, everyone s going to fall morally short, and I think reflecting on our history, both good and bad, is a powerful statement and part of our DNA.
The next day on The View, co-host Whoopi Goldberg had a few choice words for Kilmeade Victims, 9/11.
Perpetrators, Confederacy.
You understand the difference?
Goldberg said, referring to the Fox News host.
When you see something that is put together to intimidate and that is celebrating a group of people who decided that they wanted to fight for their right to own slaves.
I think it s kind of you can t it s beyond apples and oranges.
Get a book, read a book, crack a book, read something.
But Kilmeade wasn t about to take any of it lying down.
Firing back on his radio show, The Brian Kilmeade Show, that afternoon, the Fox News host said he couldn t wait to clarify something that they skewed.
They are now putting a definer on the Jefferson Memorial in Washington DC.
They are now defiling the Lincoln Memorial in Washington DC.
They are chopping off heads of Columbus who I don t think fought in the Civil War but I gotta crack a book according to Whoopi Goldberg, Kilmeade said.
To put your values on people that lived 200 years ago, I think it shows the arrogance of our generation, Kilmeade responded.
What about all those people who thought it was perfectly okay for women not to vote?
Kilmeade asked.
What about all those people that thought it was perfectly okay for blacks to go to the back of the bus?
Are they all horrible people?
They re brought up in a time where for some reason that was considered the norm.
But as a society, we kept getting better.
We always keep improving.
But you can t say that Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson are bad because you don t agree with everything that they did.
BizPacReviewWatch Kilmeade s epic response below, via Fox News Radio: