Newt Gingrich completely disrespected Megyn Kelly, yet she is the one receiving threats because she refused to be treated like shit by an asshole.During her show on Tuesday night, Kelly tried to explain to Gingrich that Trump is getting destroyed in the polls because women do not appreciate his comments about groping women against their will and the fact that several women have come forward to accuse the Republican nominee of sexual assault.
If Trump is a sexual predator, Kelly continued.But Gingrich angrily cut her off and disrespectfully wagged his finger at her while telling her what she can and can t say on her own show.
Trump is not a sexual predator!
You can t say that!
Gingrich lectured, despite the fact that Kelly pointed out that she wasn t taking a position.
But Gingrich continued his tirade and verbally assaulted Kelly.
I m sick and tired of people like you using language that s inflammatory that s not true!
When you use the words, you took a position.
And I think it s very unfair of you to do that, Megyn!
I think that is exactly the bias people are upset by.
Your defensiveness on this may speak volumes, sir, Kelly replied.
When the interview ended, Kelly told Gingrich to take his anger issues elsewhere to work on them.Here s the video via YouTube.To recap, Gingrich acted like a woman-hating asshole and Kelly was the adult in the room and put him in his place.Well, that didn t sit well with Trump adviser Dan Scavino, who insulted and threatened Kelly via Twitter.
Shows she is totally biased against Mr. Trump & not very smart, Scavino wrote in the first tweet.
Mr. Trump has long known!!
.
@NewtGingrich just destroyed @MegynKelly.
Shows she is totally biased against Mr. Trump & not very smart.
Mr. Trump has long known!!
Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) October 26, 2016And then he cryptically threatened that something would happen to Kelly after the election.
Megyn Kelly made a total fool out of herself tonight- attacking Donald Trump, he wrote.
Watch what happens to her after this election is over.
.
@MegynKelly made a total fool out of herself tonight- attacking @realDonaldTrump.
Watch what happens to her after this election is over.
Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) October 26, 2016It sounds like Scavino just threatened violence against a woman, which is totally in conflict with his position as director of development at the Joe Torre Safe at Home Foundation, which is dedicated to ending domestic violence.
If Scavino is still working at this foundation, he should lose his job immediately.
Because making threats against a woman is deplorable.Featured image via screenshot