In what some may assume is a misspeak and others may attribute to a Freudian slip, Sarah Palin took to Facebook to go after rapper Azealia Banks.
To be honest, the two of these ladies fighting is a mind-numbing assault on everything good and decent, because both women are outrageous in their own regards.
The two have been trapped in a Twitter battle that s gotten kind of ugly.Trying to end the battle, in her own condescending way, was Palin when she took to her medium of choice, Facebook.
She wrote: Hey Female Rapper listen up, little darling.
No one has any idea what you re wigging out about in these bizarre, violent rants against me, but you re obviously not exercising enough intelligence to acknowledge you ve been sucked into believing some fake interview in which I supposedly offered comments representing the antithesis of my truth.In this life, you re blessed to have been given an influential platform.
So have I.
Why don t we strengthen both our platforms and work together on something worthwhile like condoning racism, along with empowering young women to defend themselves against a most misogynist, degrading, devastating assault perpetrated by evil men rape.Thanks.
And now I ll go through my young daughter s playlist to make sure there hasn t been any inadvertent addition of any anti-woman, pro-rape garbage that you seem to endorse, which perpetuates the cultural challenges we face in America.
I encourage other parents to do the same.God bless you Ms. Banks, as you consider a change of heart.
Sarah Palin Mediaite seems to have captured the original post:via FacebookOf course, she either didn t know what condoning means or she really meant it.
Either way, she s clearly been notified of how horrific she sounded, because her post was deleted and re-posted with the word condemning instead.Here s the thing, Palin is backing the most racist candidate running for president Donald Trump.
His outright bigotry towards Latinos, Muslims, etc.
isn t even thinly veiled.
He boasts his hatred for the other right in the open.
So while Palin may have written the wrong word initially, she clearly is condoning racism and misogyny by backing Trump.Featured Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images