GCHQ director Robert Hannigan is stepping down after only two years as chief of the cyber spy agency for personal reasons, the intelligence service has announced.
Recall also that Judge Napolitano said three sources told him the British spy agency had something to do with the witch hunt on Trump: JUDGE NAPOLITANO was on FOX & Friends discussing the Obama administration s efforts to spy on Donald Trump.
Three intel sources have disclosed to the network that Obama went to British intelligence to get the goods on Trump, but we may never be able to prove it JUDGE NAPOLITANO: Three intelligence sources have informed FOX News that President Obama went outside the chain of command.
He didn t use the NSA, he didn t use the CIA, he didn t use the FBI and he didn t use the Department of Justice He used *GCHQ.
*GCHQ is a British intel agency.
@Judgenap: Three intel sources have disclosed that Pres.
Obama turned to British spies to get surveillance on Trump pic.twitter.com/IghCFm7qhO FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) March 14, 2017 Grassley began his investigation after the Washington Post reported on February 28 that the FBI, a few weeks before the election, agreed to pay former British spy Christopher Steele to investigate Trump.Prior to that, supporters of the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign had paid Steele to gather intelligence on Clinton s Republican rival.
In the end, the FBI did not pay Steele, the Post reported, after the dossier became the subject of news stories, congressional inquiries and presidential denials.
It is not clear whether Steele worked under agreement with the FBI for any period of time before the payment deal fell through.
The idea that the FBI and associates of the Clinton campaign would pay Mr. Steele to investigate the Republican nominee for president in the run-up to the election raises further questions about the FBI s independence from politics, as well as the Obama administration s use of law enforcement and intelligence agencies for political ends, Grassley wrote in a letter to Comey dated March 28.MCCABE HAS BEEN ON THE HOT SEAT BEFORE:BREAKING: CROOKED VA GOVERNOR, Close Hillary Friend Gave Wife Of FBI Official Overseeing Hillary Email Investigation $467,500The political organization of Virginia Gov.
Terry McAuliffe, an influential Democrat with longstanding ties to Bill and Hillary Clinton, gave nearly $500,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an official at the Federal Bureau of Investigation who later helped oversee the investigation into Mrs. Clinton s email use.Campaign finance records show Mr. McAuliffe s political-action committee donated $467,500 to the 2015 state Senate campaign of Dr. Jill McCabe, who is married to Andrew McCabe, now the deputy director of the FBI.The Virginia Democratic Party, over which Mr. McAuliffe exerts considerable control, donated an additional $207,788 worth of support to Dr. McCabe s campaign in the form of mailers, according to the records.
That adds up to slightly more than $675,000 to her candidacy from entities either directly under Mr. McAuliffe s control or strongly influenced by him.
The figure represents more than a third of all the campaign funds Dr. McCabe raised in the effort.Mr.
McAuliffe and other state party leaders recruited Dr. McCabe to run, according to party officials.
She lost the election to incumbent Republican Dick Black.A spokesman for the governor said he supported Jill McCabe because he believed she would be a good state senator.
This is a customary practice for Virginia governors Any insinuation that his support was tied to anything other than his desire to elect candidates who would help pass his agenda is ridiculous.
Among political candidates that year, Dr. McCabe was the third-largest recipient of funds from Common Good VA, the governor s PAC, according to campaign finance records.
Dan Gecker received $781,500 from the PAC and $214,456 from the state party for a campaign that raised $2.9 million, according to records; and Jeremy McPike received $803,500 from the PAC and $535,162 from the state party, raising more $3.8 million that year for his candidacy.The governor could recall only one meeting with Mr. McCabe when he and other state Democrats met with the couple on March 7, 2015, to urge Dr. McCabe to run, according to the spokesman.
Via: Washington Examiner