Last night, NBC hosted the Commander-in-Chief Forum in New York, where host Matt Lauer questioned Hillary and Trump for 30 minutes each (actually he put the screws to Hillary and lobbed puff balls at Trump, but that s beside the point).
Hillary, as usual, was specific when answering questions, even those from veterans.
Trump?
Har de har har.
His entire answer to every question boiled down to, I have a plan, and it will work.
Obama and Hillary have screwed this up for you, but my plan will fix it.
In fact, the following tweets actually show the difference between Hillary and Trump when it comes to anything to do with policy:One striking contrast: How will you improve vets mental health?Clinton: See my detailed plan, released last week Trump: The VA is corrupt Dan Diamond (@ddiamond) September 8, 2016 Clinton: Points to specific allies and her 4,700-word mental health planTrump: Says he ll create something great to fix corrupt system Dan Diamond (@ddiamond) September 8, 2016That s pretty much all Trump does.
He makes grandiose but vague promises to take care of this, fix that, and more, and people believe him.
He could say, The VA is corrupt.
Trust me.
I know corrupt enterprises.
I can spot them a mile away.
The VA is definitely a corrupt enterprise, but I will fix it.
We ll have the best veterans system in the world.
The best.
It ll be great, and they ll just eat it up without question.That s why he s a demagogue.Meanwhile, we have Hillary Clinton in the other corner, who knows how to develop plans to handle things, and has actual, real ways to handle things, along with who will be enlisted to carry it out and/or help.
She provides the specifics on her plans that Trump won t provide on his.That s the main difference between them now.
Trump just says whatever he thinks people want to hear, and makes it vague enough that it ll be very easy for him to claim he never promised this, that or the other when, in fact, he did promise this, that or the other.
Hillary actually tells people what they can expect.Photo of Hillary Clinton by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images.
Photo of Donald Trump by Alex Wong/Getty Images