Michael Strickland, 36, was arrested after pulling a handgun on Black Lives Matter protesters in Portland, Oregon, Thursday night.
Video of the incident shows Strickland pulling what appears to be a Glock 26 on protesters who were demonstrating against the recent fatal shootings of black men by police officers.
It was revealed that the gun owner had a round in the chamber and five other magazines of ammunition of him while aiming the gun at the anti-police brutality group, according to court records.Strickland is accused of two counts of unlawful use of a firearm, menacing and second- degree disorderly conduct, according to The Oregonian.Multnomah County deputy district attorney Kate Molina Friday successfully argued for Strickland s bail to be set at $250,000 after two felony counts of unlawful use of a firearm were added to misdemeanor allegations of menacing and second-degree disorderly conduct.Strickland had an extended clip in his firearm that he swept at chest level multiple times in front of the demonstrators.
The gun owner also waved it in front of a plain-clothed Portland police officer.Portland Officer Branden L. Combs was in Chapman Square during the protest and heard people running by him yelling, Gun!
Gun!
and He s got a gun, according to a probable cause affidavit.Police were told by one of the protesters that Strickland has tried to incite or instigate others at different demonstrations.Officer Combs witnessed the incident.
He was standing just about 20 to 25 yards away from Strickland when he went all Second Amendment on the protestestors, sweeping the crowd with his firearm.After the arrest, police found an extended clip in Strickland s handgun, a round in the chamber of the gun, plus two magazines of ammunition in a belt pouch, two magazines in one of his pants pockets and one magazine in the other, Molina said.
In addition, he also had a pocket knife in his right front pants pocket.According to Strickland s attorney Chris Trotter, his client was a journalist who has a concealed carry permit, adding that he has every right to protect himself.
Trotter alleged that the District Attorney s office was making an example of Strickland.Molina responded, saying that Given that Mr. Strickland pulled a gun on a crowd of people in front of the steps of the Justice Center and has a past police report alleging possibly race-based threats against an attendee at a Portland vigil for the victims of last month s Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida, his client s bail set at $250,000 is justified.From the video, it looks like Strickland aimed his Glock at a man who is armed with only a camera.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jvV3BQ-RoJw]In a separate incident, a white male showed up at a memorial for Alton Sterling, the black Louisiana man who was fatally shot by police officers.Hey guys, you re doing the Second Amendment wrong.Image via screen capture.