Kneel before Trump is not something you ll be seeing General Zod portrayer Michael Shannon do anytime soon.The Man of Steel actor made it clear on Friday during an interview on RogerEbert.com that the election of Trump put him in a bad mood and he had absolutely no problem ripping Trump and his supporters a new one.
It s not one of my happier Fridays now that the Orange Man is running the world, Shannon told Nick Allen.Allen then asked Shannon to make sense of how Trump got elected.
That s when Shannon unloaded on Trump supporters.Yeah, I ll tell you how to make sense of it: This country s filled with ignorant jackasses.
The big red dildo running through the middle of our country needs to be annexed to be its own country of moronic assholes.
You can call it the United States of Moronic Fucking Assholes.Sounds about right so far.
I don t know how people got so goddamn stupid, Shannon continued.
But it s really weird, because it s like the last eight years, now it feels like a lie.
Like, this has been festering underneath the whole time.
Racists, sexists.
And a lot of these people, they don t know why the fuck they re alive.
They know it.
They re doing drugs, fucking killing themselves.
Because they re like, Why the fuck am I alive?
I can t get a job, I don t know anything about anything, I have no curiosity for life or the world.
So this Trump thing is like getting a box of firecrackers, or something.
It s like, Well, this will be fun for a little while, this ll kill some time.
Because, y know, the jackass will be amusing on television, say stupid shit.
Make everybody clap.
Hillary would have been too boring, I suppose.
It s the worst thing that s ever happened.
It s the worst.
This guy is going to destroy civilization as we know it, and the earth, and all because of these people who don t have any idea why they re alive.Now that s the perfect angry rant about Trump and his supporters that we ve been waiting for.And he is right.For a year and a half, Trump has used offensive and divisive rhetoric that should have disqualified him from seeking the presidency on day one of his campaign.
His racism and sexism and ignorance should have lost him the election by a landslide.
But he won anyway because stupid people voted for him because they want nothing more than to watch the world burn.Featured Image: Wikimedia