Fox News is collapsing like a house of cards as the fallout over rampant sexual harassment continues.Gretchen Carlson got the ball rolling when she filed a lawsuit against the conservative network, accusing Fox boss Roger Ailes of sexually harassing her and punishing her for refusing to have sex with him.Rather than stand by their colleague, however, Fox hosts such as Greta Van Susteren and others took Ailes side instead.But now that Carlson has been vindicated and Ailes forced to resign, Van Susteren now regrets not believing the victim in the first place.In a post on Facebook on Friday, Van Susteren opened up about Carlson and expressed regret for not believing Carlson from the start.
I read Geraldo s FB post in which he said he regretted not believing Gretchen Carlson s claim of sexual harassment, she wrote.
We all regret it I made my regret self evident in my GretaWire posting about 3 weeks ago which ended with this: Gretchen, you go girl.
That said it all.
Van Susteren continued by admitting that it was unfair for her to judge the case since she was 200 miles away from where the harassment took place and that she had never talked to Carlson about it to hear her side of the story personally.
It is indeed true, when I read the complaint written by lawyers I never spoke to Gretchen as she was long gone from Fox I found it inconsistent with what was my experience and information at the Fox News Channel, admittedly working 200 miles from the scene of the crimes.
It was hidden from all of us.
Van Susteren left Fox News earlier this week and they replaced her with Brit Hume, a man who has spewed sexist remarks on the air for years.And now that she is no longer employed by Fox News, Van Susteren has absolutely no problem shaming her former employers for not doing anything about Roger Ailes sooner.
But I have regrets beyond Geraldo s and beyond not believing a civil complaint written by lawyers.
I regret that Roger Ailes was not supervised by those in a public corporation who had the duty to supervise him.
This included his seniors, the CFO s of both Fox News Channel and 21CF (and its predecessor NewsCorp), the Board of Directors and what I assume this public corporation had, outside auditors.
Checks written that were suspicious should have been spotted.
But Fox News still hasn t learned much since many of the people who let Ailes get away with sexually harassing female employees, like Bill Shine, are still employed in their positions by the company.Even some high profile male hosts are still employed, including Steve Doocy, who was named in Carlson s lawsuit, and Bill O Reilly, who was named in Andrea Tantaros lawsuit.Fox News needs to go beyond axing Ailes.
They need to clean house or the working environment at Fox will simply continue being like a sex-fueled, Playboy Mansion-like cult, steeped in intimidation, indecency and misogyny.
Featured image via Facebook