Once again, a Republican rape comment surfaces, and it s from the campaign manager of the Republican nominee.Donald Trump s campaign has been full of sexism and misogyny, so it was only a matter of time before his third campaign manager Kellyanne Conway made her own offensive comment about rape.In 2013, despite Republicans being advised to keep their mouths shut about women and rape, Conway appeared in a panel discussion to talk about women in the military.
At some point, Conway used rape as an analogy even though rape was not part of the discussion.Conway blamed women for being raped because they are not as physically strong as men and that rape would not exist if only women were not so weak.
If we were physiologically not mentally, emotionally, professionally equal to men, if we were physiologically as strong as men, rape would not exist, Conway said.
You would be able to defend yourself and fight him off.
Here s the video via YouTube.
Conway s rape comment is at the 2 minute mark.Conway s comment assumes that all rapes can be prevented simply by being physically strong.
Unfortunately, rapists have many tricks to incapacitate their victims, including date rape drugs.
Being strong also does not work very well if a rapist has their victim at knifepoint or gunpoint.Instead of blaming rapists, Conway openly blamed women for rape.
She was a Republican pollster at the time, but now she is the campaign manager for the presidential candidate of the Republican Party.Clearly, Trump either did not vet Conway at all or he is okay with what she had to say about rape.But this adds to the pattern of Republicans blaming the victim instead of the rapist.
For years, Republicans have been saying outrageous things about rape.
Here s 40 of them.Trump is just another Republican in a long line of Republicans who apparently believe women are at fault if they get raped.
His hiring of Conway clearly demonstrates that.
They seem to think it s acceptable to blame rape victims for their assaults, deny women the right to control their own health care, and downplay sexual harassment in the workplace, Daily Show creator Liz Winstead responded to Conway s remarks.
It s not.
Featured image via screen capture