Paris first female mayor and the one who brought the city together after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and November s mass attack, recently made a blunt (and much needed) statement on Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.In an interview in which she and London s newest mayor Sadiq Khan, a practicing Muslim, showed a sign of religious unity, Hidalgo plainly stated that Trump is so stupid and repeated it: Donald Trump is stupid.
My God he s stupid.
My God.
There s no other way to frame it than that.
Trump has not been on good terms with the French ever since their two attacks, which happened 11 months apart.
He tweeted that Parisians would have survived the attacks if they were allowed access to open carry.
He also blamed France s immigration policy and tolerance of Muslims as a culprit for the attacks.Hidalgo also told reporters that the people of France, of all religions whether they be Christian or Muslim or even atheists do not agree with Trump s policies.Not long after the comments were made, Hidalgo and the city of Paris announced that a refugee camp would be opened in the city s northern suburbs.
Not only will the camp house migrants and refugees, but it will also lay groundwork for establishing permanent housing for those who come with nothing.
Hidalgo blasted France and Europe for failing to face up to the migrant crisis that has claimed thousands of lives trying to escape persecution and violence.Hidalgo told reporters that France cannot sit by and continue to watch migrants suffer and die when more could be done to help them: I hear people say won t this act as a magnet.
But I think of other countries, like Germany, where they have created conditions to welcome hundreds of thousands of migrants in dignified conditions.
We must do the same by taking the full measure of this migrant flow that is flooding Europe.
Paris will not sit idly by while the Mediterranean becomes a graveyard for refugees.
Hidalgo says the camp will be opened within six weeks time.And like that, another world leader smacks down Donald Trump and shows him how it s really done in the civilized world.Featured image via Wikipedia