Trump s emotionally unbalanced social media director and close friend Dan Scavino had what can only be described as a mental break and is now threatening to publish a video of the private concession call she placed to Trump (and appears to have been answered by Kellyanne Conway).To do so would be not only a major ethical violation but would break with the long-standing tradition of the winners showing an ounce of graciousness towards their opponents.
Trump and his team apparently have no qualms with stooping this low.
If there is a point of indignity even they will not cross, they have yet to reach it.Scavino has long relished in his role as Trump s nastiest bulldog.
His position as White House social media director was handed to him, not due to experience or expertise but because he was Trump s golf caddie.
In a White House bursting with nepotism and corruption, Scavino might be the least qualified person around an impressive feat.
He is also known for his viciousness and an unhinged streak of petty attacks on his or Trump s perceived enemies follows wherever he goes.
Clinton, who won the popular vote by several million, still irritates Trump and therefore she is an enemy Scavino feels he needs to destroy.For his part, Scavino claims he is being trolled by Hillary supporters.
A notable coward, he couldn t take the heat and began melting down on social media.
(The irony of Trump s social media director being unable to handle being on social media should not be lost on anyone.
)After posting this nonsensical I m not mad, you re mad!
tweet, Scavino followed it up with the promise to release Hillary s concession phone call.Love @AlexBWall & team Clinton trolling me (b/c they have nothing else going on.)
All experts & gurus over there .
that simply got owned!
pic.twitter.com/R8so2rZCwN Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) May 9, 2017Screen shot via @KellyannePolls cell phone- of Huma's call at 2:30amE .6 months ago.
I have on video & will share that in the near future.
pic.twitter.com/Mzy2o8XXwQ Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) May 9, 2017It s hard to quantify the sheer level of petty vindictiveness going on in the White House.
Trump s team of enablers and yes-men run from one squabble to the next.
Very little time appears to be spent on actual governance, with a lot of their energy being consumed with in-fighting.
Bannon is fighting with Jared Kushner.
Kushner is fighting with Priebus.
Kellyanne Conway is missing?
McMasters is fighting with Bannon.
Instead of leading by example, Trump is off golfing or wandering around aimlessly with a copy of the election map under his arm.
Trump ran an experiment: What would happen if I filled the nation s highest office with the least reputable, most angry, insecure people in the country?
The answer: This shitshow is exactly what happens.The only goal of Scavino releasing the private tape of Trump and Clinton s phone call is to personally humiliate Hillary Clinton.
There is no political, social, or practical reason to do this.
Even by the admittedly low standards of restraint and goodwill on display by Trump s White House, this is disgusting.
Sadly, with Trump consumed by his efforts to smear Sally Yates, it appears unlikely that he will intervene and save his administration from yet another self-inflicted blow to their own dignity.I would say this is the foxes running the henhouse but it would be unfair to suggest foxes lack this amount of shame.Featured image via CNN