It s Trump s third month in office and the lies about President Obama just keep coming.During a CNN panel to discuss Trump s 13th golf vacation, long-time Trump flack and woman without shame Kayleigh McEnany, thought she would help her president out by spinning a blatant lie about Obama.
Trump should be excused from criticism for his repeated golf trips, McEnany reasoned, because Obama once golfed shortly after a journalist named Daniel Pearl was murdered by extremists in Pakistan.As anyone not currently trying to exploit his death to protect Trump might know, Pearl was murdered in 2002.
Obama wouldn t become president for six years.
And there is no evidence that he was golfing as a then state senator at the time.
McEnany just flat-out lied.WATCH: Kayleigh McEnany: Obama rushed off to golf after Daniel Pearl was beheaded.Pearl was killed in 2002.
Obama was a state senator.
pic.twitter.com/5QkFRgjoR4 Yashar (@yashar) March 28, 2017Next to her was Atlantic writer Peter Beinart whose stunned expression pretty much sums it up.Beinart is used to this level of idiocy from Trump surrogates.
During the election, his reaction to a ridiculous rant by Katrina Pierson went viral.
Her lies were so unhinged that all he could do was uncontrollably laugh at her.Peter Beinart could not contain his laughter during that last @CNNTonight segment https://t.co/JgD2aEcts0 Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) October 13, 2016It s not hard to understand why Trump and his cronies are eager to deflect criticism of his golf game onto Obama.
For years, Trump attacked the former president for taking vacations or playing golf while he was in office.
During the campaign, Trump vowed to never take a vacation and promised he would have no time for golf.
Since being elected, that s gone out the window.
He s now spent nearly every weekend in his first two months playing golf at courses he owns.Adding further absurdity to McEnany s defense of Trump, the president doesn t let national mourning stop his golf game.
He played golf this weekend during the same time a white supremacist terrorist was charged with murdering a random black man as practice before a planned mass murder of black people in New York City.
Trump has refused to comment on the incident.
He visited his Virginia golf course twice, lying about what he was doing both times.Featured image via Twitter