Katrina Pierson is a black woman.
She is also a top spokesperson for unabashed racist Donald Trump.
She apparently buys into Trump s horrible ideas and rhetoric, though, as she defends him at every turn.
Hell, she might be just as crazy as he is, as she even went so far as to appear on national television wearing a necklace made out of bullets in order to tout Trump s staunch support for the second amendment.However, it is about time someone took this black woman to task for her blind support of a clear racist, and, finally, CNN pundit and GOP strategist Tara Setmeyer did so.
The pundit absolutely blasted Pierson, and said that she is simply one of the blacks he likes since he pays her to clean up his mess everyday on television.
When Setmeyer pointed out how Trump is under fire for refusing to firmly toss aside an endorsement from former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke, Pierson dodged the question, saying: Mr. Trump said, look, I don t even know what you re talking about.
So, I think this has really been blown out of proportion.
And it really does highlight more media bias when no one has asked Barack Obama to disavow Sen. Robert Byrd, who was not just a klans [sic] member, but a leader in the Klan when he endorsed him in 2008.
The thing is, though, Pierson, like so many ignorant Trump supporters, failed to notice the fact that Byrd had a BIG change of heart a hell of a long time ago, according to a book he wrote.
So, completely different kettle of tripe entirely, as Duke is still very much an avowed racist.Setmeyer pushed Pierson, and plowed on: He brags about how he can manipulate folks.
We sit and we watched this play out over the weekend, where Donald Trump took five different positions because he got pressured into having to actually admit to what was going on.
David Duke absolutely came out and said it s against your heritage if you don t vote for Donald Trump, okay.
That s an endorsement.
Give me a break.
And then to say, I couldn t hear what was going on, they gave me a [bad] earpiece.
Anyone who watched the interview with Jake Tapper, Donald Trump clearly heard everything that Jake Tapper said.
He responded to it.
He didn t say, Oh, I can t hear you, this isn t a good earpiece.
Clearly getting angry, Pierson yelled at the hosts: The Democrats have called the Tea Party racists!
Should we have him disavow the Tea Party too?
Absolutely not!
But Setmeyer, in the end got the best of Pierson, and called her out for what she is: We aren t even talking about Donald Trump s questionable history with race back to when the DOJ sued the Trump organization for racial discrimination.
Or when Donald Trump came out and said how much he loves quote the blacks or we can go down the list of very questionable things Donald Trump has said.
But I don t know.
Maybe Katrina Pierson is one of the blacks he likes since he pays her to clean up his mess everyday on television.
And that s just it.
Trump is fine with black folks, just since they bow, turn their backs on their own race, and go YASSA MASSA!
when he comes running.
They help assure the ignorant and blind people that he is somehow not racist no matter what he says.Of course, in the end, Pierson lamely went back to what Trump and all of his supporters say: He s winning.
That s all that matters.
He s winning.
The sad thing is, though, is that Katrina Pierson, and so many other Trump supporters, seem to actually believe that.Watch the video below via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture