President Obama is currently in his final year as Commander-in-Chief while Donald Trump is the presumptive nominee of the Republican Party.
70 percent of women hold an unfavorable view of Donald Trump while 56 percent of women voted for President Obama in 2012.
And it s not hard to see why.An incredible video by Buzzfeed compares how President Obama has treated women versus how Donald Trump has treated women.While President Obama has focused on making sure women and girls have the same opportunities as men and boys and appreciates the role that women have played in making this nation strong, Donald Trump objectifies women, judges them based on their looks, and considers them to be baby-makers who can be cast aside for a different woman.The video begins with Trump telling Celebrity Apprentice contestant Brande Roderick that she must be a pretty picture, you dropping to your knees.
President Obama is then shown talking about his objection to his daughters not being able to have the same opportunities as somebody s sons.
That s unacceptable, he tells the audience.Then Trump is shown telling a female reporter that she wouldn t have a job if she wasn t beautiful.At the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, President Obama spoke of how that we have to speak louder than the voices telling our girls that they re not good enough.
That they ve got to look a certain way, or they gotta act a certain way.
It continues this way throughout the video.
Trump makes a negative remark about women while President Obama praises women and fights for their future.Here s the video via Facebook:That s really the choice we face in 2016.
Do we want to elect a president who will fight for women or do we want Trump, a man who has shown utter contempt for women and only notices them if they look like a super model.
Because if we want a president who respects and fights for women like President Obama, the logical choice this November would be whichever Democrat ends up on the ticket opposite Trump.Hillary Clinton is taking aim at history as she seeks to become the first female President of the United States.
Human rights are women s rights, and women s rights are human rights, she said at the U.N. 4th World Conference on Women Plenary Session in 1995.
Let us not forget that among those rights are the right to speak freely and the right to be heard.
We need to understand that there is no formula for how women should lead their lives, she continued.
That is why we must respect the choices that each woman makes for herself and her family.
Every woman deserves the chance to realize her God-given potential.
Here s the video of her full speech via YouTube.Bernie Sanders is also pursuing the presidency.
His chances at capturing the nomination are waning but should he win the nomination he would also be a good choice for women in November.Like Clinton, Sanders has fought for women s rights throughout his career.
As the longtime senator from Vermont, Sanders has made women s issues a major part of his policy agenda.Sanders explained his efforts to elevate women to the Washington Post in September.
You re looking at somebody who s made a cornerstone, a key part of my campaign, the need for at least three months of family and medical leave; somebody who is fighting to raise the minimum wage over a two year period to $15 an hour, which will benefit everybody, but women actually more than men; somebody who regards it as enormously important that we fight for pay equity for women; somebody who believes that our child care system is a disaster today and that we need to have the best childcare/pre-K system in the world, making it universal and affordable.So I think if people look at my record, I think they will see somebody who has had a lifelong record of support for the women s movement and women s rights.
Like Clinton, Sanders also supports a woman s right to choose.
When you tell a woman that she cannot control her own body, that s extremism, he wrote on Twitter.
Let s say it loud and clear: women control their bodies, not the government.
In short, the contrast between Trump and the Democratic Party couldn t be more clear.
Trump is a serial womanizer who constantly spews despicable sexist remarks that should automatically disqualify him from running for president.
But so far, conservatives seem to have no problem with Trump s anti-women beliefs and that is why ads like the one below will continue to haunt Trump s campaign.Democratic candidates, meanwhile, want women to be equal and be treated with respect and dignity just like President Obama has been pushing for over the last eight years.
And that s why we need another eight years or more of a Democrat in the White House.Featured image via screenshot