Right-wing pastors are the ones really waging war on Christmas.A crazy Christian pastor in Texas decided to ruin Christmas for all the little boys and girls at a mall in Amarillo and filmed himself doing so as horrified parents looked on.David Grisham Jr. walked into the mall and began filming himself delivering unsolicited preaching to children who were there to see Santa Claus.The Last Frontier Evangelism leader laid out his plan to tell kids that Santa is a fake all while insisting that Jesus is real.
The man you re going to see today is just a man in a suit, dressed up like Santa, but Santa does not exist, Grisham said.
Parents, y all need to stop lying to your children and telling them that Santa Claus is real when, in fact, he s not.
Grisham continued to repeat that Santa isn t real and told parents they should be teaching them about Jesus instead.
When you substitute the lie of Santa Claus in the heart of your child for the truth of Jesus Christ, you are bearing false witness against God.
Don t lie to your children and tell them there s such a thing as Santa, when you know in reality that there are no flying reindeer, there is no workshop at the North Pole, there is no elves making toys, that you buy all the gifts and put them under the tree.
Some angry fathers confronted Grisham to make his leave.
Quit talking this mess, you understand me?
one man tells Grisham.
Now stop.
I ve got my kids over there, we don t need you coming over here and blabbing whatever the hell you re blabbing.
Now go on go.
Now.
That s not your decision to tell my kids what s the truth and what s not.
Here s the video via YouTube.This is the example of the so-called war on Christmas that Fox News has been looking for, but they won t report on it because it s a conservative pastor waging it.In fact, there is more evidence that Santa Claus is real than there is that Jesus is real.While scholars rely on the Bible as their source for Jesus existence, the person we call Santa Claus today was born Nikolaos of Myra in 3rd century Greece and was declared a saint during the 4th century.
Saint Nicholas is reputed to have performed miracles, and his reputation for secretly giving gifts to people in need gave rise to the story of Santa Claus.
Over time the life of Saint Nick was blended with Nordic folktales that have turned into the story of Santa we know so well today.
Sure, the story of Santa Claus has changed through the centuries to include a sleigh, flying reindeer, milk and cookies, going down chimneys, elves making toys, and living at the North Pole, but Santa is still based in reality and there is evidence that he existed.Featured Image: Screenshot