Get ready for the Donald Trump temper tantrum on Twitter.For the ninth consecutive year, the American people have chosen President Obama as the most admired man of the year, a new Gallup poll reveals.President Obama received 22 percent of the vote while Donald Trump only received 15 percent.According to Gallup,Obama s win over Trump this year is largely a result of the president earning more mentions among Democrats than Trump receives from Republicans.
Fifty percent of Democrats named Obama as most admired, compared with 34% of Republicans choosing Trump.So Trump is not even admired by a majority of his own party.
SAD!And while Gallup did mention that it s possible that Trump could continue the trend of incumbent presidents winning the title in 2017, it will be harder to do so if his approval ratings continue to be in the toilet.But there s more.
Hillary Clinton captured 12 percent of the vote to win the title of most admired woman for the 15th consecutive year.
But Melania Trump, nor Ivanka Trump, made the list.
First Lady Michelle Obama, however, came in second.Clearly, the American people think much higher of President Obama and Hillary Clinton than they do of Donald Trump.
After all, Clinton did win the popular vote in an election which Russia intervened on Trump s behalf.Had President Obama been on the ballot, he more than likely would have won a third term.
He is wildly popular and has strong approval ratings.Donald Trump, on the other hand, is not popular.
His approval ratings have only risen slightly since the election and Americans are getting sick of his Twitter tantrums.He is already taking credit for things that President Obama did and he is putting our foreign policy in serious jeopardy.
Trump is a joke as president-elect.
And he will continue being a joke in the White House that hostile nations will take advantage of.
And Trump will get even more unpopular as he signs bills to strip Americans of Obamacare, Social Security and Medicare in the first few months of his administration.And if he does that, he is surely going to be a one-term president.Featured Image: Joe Raedle/Getty Images