There were several powerful, captivating speeches that marked Hillary Clinton s Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia earlier this week, but the most memorable one came from the father of a Muslim soldier who sacrificed his own life to save his comrades.Khizr Khan, in a brilliant speech that he delivered without any notes, stood on the DNC stage with his wife Ghazala and ripped Republican nominee Donald Trump to shreds for his anti-Muslim rhetoric.
Pulling out a copy of the United States Constitution that he carries with him everywhere, Khan challenged Trump, Have you even read the United States Constitution?!
I will gladly lend you my copy!
It was an iconic moment that was by far the most powerful of the entire convention, and even conservatives could not deny that Khan had made them feel ashamed to be represented by Trump.Of course, many were waiting for Trump to react to this epic moment, because Trump never lets any criticism get past him without retaliating in one of his childish ways.
Well, Trump has finally responded, days later after New York Times reporter Maureen Dowd asked Trump about it and it s just as disappointing as you would expect.Dowd asked: On the poignant appearance of Muslim lawyer Khizr Khan and his wife, whose son, Humayun, an Army captain, posthumously received a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery after he was killed by a suicide bomber in Iraq in 2004.
As his wife, Ghazala, stood silently by his side, Khan held up a copy of the Constitution and asked Trump if he had ever read it and said, You have sacrificed nothing.
Trump had just one thing to say in response.
One sentence.
Eight words.
It was this: I d like to hear his wife say something.
Yes, Trump s reaction to the most powerful criticism he got at the DNC is to insult a gold star mother.
What a moron.TwitterLast night, Ghazala Khan explained on MSNBC that she hadn t said anything at the DNC because speaking about her son Humayun causes her to be too overcome with emotion.
You can watch Humayun s parents remember their son in the powerful interview below:Featured image via John Moore / Getty Images and screenshot