From the Civil War to Jim Crow to George Wallace, to the Confederate Flag that hung over the Statehouse until just last year, the state of Alabama has always been synonymous with racial struggle and with just plain ole racism.Things might be changing from an official level, but to many Alabamans, African-Americans are still second class citizens, and to some, just criminals.
That seemed to be the idea behind an 8th grade test called the LA Math Proficiency Test, that portrayed black people and Latinos as prostitutes, drug dealers and drive-by shooters.
Hardly appropriate for any eighth grader, even without the racism.The first question involves someone named Ram n, who performs drive-by shootings with an AK-47.
Then, there s Leroy, who sells cocaine to Juan.
The test goes on to talk about children who steal, all of whom have ethnic sounding names.
There s even one about Tyrone, who knocked up 4 girls in the gang, out of 20.
Students are asked to figure out the percentage.
My son, he took a picture of it in class and he texted it to me.
I couldn t believe it, Erica Hall said.Hall said her son sent her a text photo of the quiz his eighth-grade language arts teacher passed out Friday.
Hall said even the kids thought it was some kind of joke.
They took it as a joke, and she told them that it wasn t it a joke, and they had to complete it, and turn it in, Hall said.Source: Fox10Here s the video:FOX10 News | WALAIf you can t see the questions, here are some.
All of the 10 questions follow this theme:Dwayne pimps 3 ho s (sic).
If the price is $85 per trick, how many tricks per day must each ho turn to support Dwayne s $800 per day crack habit?Raul wants to cut the pound of cocaine he bought for $40,000 to make a 20% profit.
How many one ounce bags will he need to make to obtain the 20% profit?LaShaunda is a lookout for the gang.
Lacuna also has a Boa Constricter that eats 5 rats per week at the cost of $5 per rat.
If LaShaunda makes $700 (sic) week as a lookout, how many weeks can she feed the Boa on one week s income?Some of the students thought the test was hilarious, but parents did not.
Even racist parents likely objected to the very adult themes.The teacher, who appeared to lazily pull this test off the internet, has been suspended, although their name has not yet been released.
This isn t the first school to give that test, though.
Many across the country, mostly in Southern states, have given either this test or something similar.Featured image via video screen capture.