A black Cincinnati police officer is currently receiving backlash over a controversial Facebook post where he warned his African-American friends and family about white officers that may be targeting them because of their race.Officer Freddie Vincent had shared the message earlier this month, which instructed black people on what to do if they happen to get stopped by police.
The post read: A message to all my Afro America friends and family.
When you are encountered by a white officer make sure that you are in a public place, and comply to all of their commands, because they are looking for a reason to kill a black man.
And always keep your hands in the air, and never resist.
I m so tired of cops using these famous words I was in fear of my life.
I m praying for Louisiana, that could have been my nephew in B.R.
FacebookThis post was written after the high profile police brutality incidents in Louisiana and Minnesota, so it is perfectly understandable why those tragedies would be weighing on Vincent s heart and he would want to warn his loved ones of the dangers they might encounter.
Vincent also had other posts on his Facebook account that addressed police brutality.
One of them, posted on July 12, was an illustration on 10 rules of survival if stopped by the police.
Vincent commented over the illustration: I can t promise you that this is 100% true, but it s about 85% to 95% and you just might make it home safely.
Unfortunately, Vincent s post has landed him in hot water.
According to Cincinnati Police Chief Eliot Isaac, Vincent s post is being reviewed to see if it falls within the department s social media procedure and our rules and regulations.
In a statement, Isaac said: The Cincinnati Police Department strives to maintain a culture of professionalism, as well as transparency and accountability for our actions.
I am proud of the work of the men and women of the Cincinnati Police Department and our efforts to work collaboratively with the community.
We are aware of a recent post to a commonly used social media site by one of our officers that refers to an interpretation of a law enforcement officer s actions.
The comments that were posted are under review as they relate to our Social Media procedure and our Rules and Regulations.
A panel discussion was later held at New Prospect Baptist Church in Roselawn, where an audience asked Isaac if there was racism in the Cincinnati Police Department.
Isaac responded: I don t think anyone can say there is not racism inside the department.
Vincent s post may be even more prominent now, as we are seeing situations where black men are doing everything that police tell them to, and still being shot.
Just earlier this week, unarmed black man Charles Kinsey was shot with his hands in the air while trying to take care of a patient with autism.
Fortunately, Kinsey lived but many are not so lucky.
Referencing Kinsey s incident, Bishop Bobby Hilton of Word of Deliverance Ministries and president of the local chapter of civil rights group National Action Network commented on this horrific incident: When there is a hint of this, that we have police officers who have this thought process about black men, these officers have to be dismissed.
We are now seeing situations in Minnesota and Florida, where black men are doing what they are told by police putting their hands up, complying with all instructions and they are still shot.
It s understandable why Vincent s posts have caused a stir, but to pretend that there wasn t some truth to what he was saying is ignorant.
African Americans have been targeted and mistreated by police for far too long, and it is a situation that must be addressed.Featured image via Flickr