Unreal!
Mooch gets millions for Pakistani girls?
The American taxpayers should be outraged by this!
Let Pakistan empower its own people!
Michelle Obama has been traveling all over the world with the Let Girls Learn initiative as her pet project.
The only thing is that most of the places she s traveled to have a great track record with educating girls.
It s just one big around the world vacation for Mooch compliments of the American taxpayer.
Judicial Watch s Tom Fitton had this to say about the trip: The Obama family continues to bill the taxpayers for costly tourism jaunts thinly disguised as humanitarian crusades EUROPEAN VACATION: MOOCH RUNS UP A HUGE TAB COMPLIMENTS OF THE TAXPAYERS Could someone please remind this woman that America is BROKE!
As public schools around the United States suffer through a perpetual financial crisis, the Obama administration commits a breathtaking $70 million to help educate girls in a terrorist nation known as Al Qaeda headquarters.
It s part of the First Lady s initiative (Let Girls Learn) to educate and empower an estimated 62 million girls in third-world countries who are not in school.
A noble cause indeed, but it s costing American taxpayers huge sums while kids especially minorities in this country struggle in schools that aren t adequately funded, according to public education advocates.
We know that countries with more girls in secondary school tend to have lower maternal mortality rates, lower infant mortality rates, lower rates of HIV/AIDS, and better child nutrition, according to the initiative s website.
But too often, a girl who could change her world for the better is locked out of that future by the circumstances of her birth or the customs of her community.
So it s Uncle Sam to the rescue.
The government of Pakistan, which is included in the State Department s Country Reports on Terrorism, will get the $70 million to promote education among 200,000 girls and young women age 10-19.
The announcement was initially made during a White House event this month with the wife and daughter of Pakistan s Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif.
The program will serve as a platform and catalyst for broader political and social commitment to strengthen girls education and empowerment in Pakistan, according to a government announcement.
Young women in Pakistan face barriers and lack of access to education opportunities from an early age due to poverty, cultural norms, and geographic isolation, the announcement states.
The question remains; should American tax dollars go to this foreign education cause when public schools in this country have been hurting for years?
Besides financial troubles, there s an epidemic of low-performing schools and dismal graduation rates around the country, especially in the nation s inner cities.
They could probably use a few million to create programs that might help improve academic performance or perhaps empower needy students like the multi-million-dollar allocation is predicted to help empower girls in Pakistan.
The public school district in the Obamas own hometown of Chicago could use some extra cash.
By Thanksgiving as many as 5,000 teachers could be laid off unless the 367,499-student district Chicago Public Schools gets a $500 million bailout from the state.
A recent editorial in the area s mainstream newspaper says that it has been a disastrous time for Chicago Public Schools.
The piece is accompanied by an illustration of a yellow school bus with Corruption & Politics in our Schools plastered across the side.
Districts across the nation are in similar situations.
In Detroit, Michigan the public school system has a $515 million debt and among the nation s worst performing students.
Read more: Judicial Watch