The women of Fox News are sick and tired of putting up with the sexist bullshit of their male colleagues and bosses.After Gretchen Carlson filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against Roger Ailes it became clear that sexism and misogyny ran deeper within the company than anyone realized.
As it turns out, it went way beyond on-air comments made by male anchors like Bill O Reilly.Once Megyn Kelly backed Carlson up, Ailes was up a creek without a paddle and was soon ousted from his position.
The scandal rocked the conservative network as former female reporters came forward to tell their own stories of non-stop harassment that turned the workplace into a personal hell.And now Carlson is not the only one filing a lawsuit.
Andrea Tantaros has as well.Tantaros filed a lawsuit in New York State Supreme Court on Monday hammering the network for punishing her when she went to the top brass to complain about Ailes sexually harassing her.
Fox News masquerades as a defender of traditional family values, but behind the scenes, it operates like a sex-fueled, Playboy Mansion-like cult, steeped in intimidation, indecency and misogyny, her lawsuit says according to the New York Times.
As it turns out, Tantaros also named Bill O Reilly in the lawsuit for making unwanted advances toward her.Fox executives attempted to pay Tantaros off if she renounced her claims but she told them to go f*ck themselves.The lawsuit details how Roger Ailes treated her, including being barred from wearing pants on set because Ailes wanted to see her legs and he often asked her to turn around in his office so her could ogle her.
She refused and was punished as a result by being yanked off The Five and placed on Outnumbered, which is a lower rated show.Tantaros attempted to seek help within the company from Bill Shine, who was recently named co-president of the network after Ailes departed but he told her to let this one go because Ailes is too powerful.
Ailes did not act alone, the lawsuit continues.
He may have been the primary culprit, but his actions were condoned by his most senior lieutenants, who engaged in a concerted effort to silence Tantaros by threats, humiliation and retaliation.
In short, Bill O Reilly and Bill Shine have been named alongside Ailes.
And even Steve Doocy was named in Carlson s lawsuit.
These are some huge names at Fox News, which means the network that preached family values while spitting on women for years in front of the camera are now getting outed for being pricks toward their own female colleagues behind the camera as well.One has to wonder how many more women will come forward and how long Fox News can survive if more of their big stars fall in utter disgrace.While I disagree with Tantaros politically, no woman should have to deal with discrimination and sexual harassment in the workplace.
But it sounds like the men of Fox News treated their workplace like a frat house and treated women like objects meant to be demeaned and disrespected.Fox News is starting to fall apart like a house of cards, but let s be honest, it was only a matter of time.Featured image via Dangerous Minds