Six million Poles lost their lives during World War II.
But to Donald Trump, that s just tough.
Perhaps no nation suffered as much devastation as Poland did during the war.
The nation was invaded and terrorized by the Nazis and then invaded and terrorized by the Soviet Union.
Poland was caught in the middle as two brutal military powers clashed.Poland experienced war first-hand, as well as poverty, homelessness, starvation, disease, and the Holocaust.
In fact, Poland lost the highest percentage of citizens during the war and its population did not recover until the 1970s.On top of that, Poland went from suffering under Nazi rule to suffering under Soviet rule.
The Soviets sent Poles to gulags throughout the Soviet Union.
Communism would dominate Poland until the free elections of 1989, and after that, communism in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union itself collapsed.The utter devastation suffered by Poland demands proper recognition.
And Trump proved that he is incapable of expressing true sadness about such a human tragedy.During his speech to the people of Poland, Trump spoke of Poland s tragic history as if it was simply an everyday hardship like having one s car stolen or breaking a leg and having no health insurance.
In 1939 you were invaded yet again, by Nazi Germany from the west, and the Soviet Union from the east.
That s trouble.
That s tough.
Here s the video via VidMe.
Tough is not the appropriate word to describe what the Polish people went through during World War II.Hitler literally planned to wipe out the entire Polish people from existence and tried to do exactly that.
The Soviets took away their nationality and treated them like non-citizens as well as taking away their lands and killing those who protested.
And all Trump can say about it is that it was tough.
So Trump waltzed into Warsaw, a city that was nearly bombed out of existence, and insulted the Polish people to their faces, once again embarrassing our country.
And the Polish crowds were forced to cheer for him.
Seriously.Trump gets more pathetic every day.Featured image via screenshot