Donald Trump just got terminated again by Arnold Schwarzenegger for lying about him on Twitter.It s no secret that the ratings for Celebrity Apprentice were worse than in previous years.
But in those previous years, people weren t boycotting the show either.Millions of Americans have been boycotting anything Donald Trump has his name on, including the reality television show, since the election in November.Trump refuses to separate himself from his various business interests, which are conflicts of interest as it appears he is making decisions in the White House to benefit himself personally.
To that end, Trump remained attached to Celebrity Apprentice as a producer, which instantly made the show a prime way to boycott Trump.In other words, Trump really only has himself to blame for the show s demise.Earlier this week, Schwarzenegger announced that he would not be returning to host the show, citing Trump s unpopularity and the fact that viewers and sponsors want nothing to do with a show featuring Trump s name.
With Trump being involved in the show people have a bad taste and don t want to participate as a spectator or sponsor or in any other way support the show, Schwarzenegger said.
It s a very divisive period right now and I think the show got caught up in all that division.
So Schwarzenegger left the show voluntarily.
That s a fact.
But Donald Trump has thin skin, so he attacked Schwarzenegger by claiming he was fired from the show.Arnold Schwarzenegger isn t voluntarily leaving the Apprentice, he was fired by his bad (pathetic) ratings, not by me.
Sad end to great show Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Again, Schwarzenegger was not fired.
He departed the show on his own terms, and he quickly replied to Trump s bullshit.You should think about hiring a new joke writer and a fact checker.
https://t.co/SvAjuPdHfa Arnold (@Schwarzenegger) March 4, 2017The fact is that Trump only has himself to blame for why Celebrity Apprentice sank in the ratings.
He constantly attacked the show on Twitter and at White House events.
Keep in mind that Trump was credited as a producer on the show, so he literally trashed his own show.
Trump s toxicity also contributed to its downfall as people chose to watch something else rather than help Trump make money.If Trump s name had not been attached to the show, it probably would have done a lot better because people would have tuned in to spite Trump.
Instead, NBC made the monumentally stupid decision to let Trump remain as an executive producer rather than fire him and keep him as far away from their programming as possible.Featured Image: Aude Guerrucci-Pool/Getty Images