Donald Trump just got his ass handed to him by Chrissy Teigen.On Thursday, Trump responded to reports that his team is desperate for A-list celebrities to perform at his inauguration because none of them want to be there.The so-called A list celebrities are all wanting tixs to the inauguration, but look what they did for Hillary, NOTHING.
I want the PEOPLE!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 23, 2016Trump is literally pretending that all A-list celebrities actually do want to be there, but he wants us to believe that he is the one rejecting them.
It s really pathetic.Well, model Chrissy Teigen thinks it s pathetic, too, and she had no problem slamming Trump for it on Twitter.Hi we are people.
You are our president too.
I don t want you to be, but u are.
Also we ALL know you are dying without the approval, dear https://t.co/NaVU1iDban christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) December 23, 2016But have fun with DJ Buttcrack spinning the hot shit and Lil Banana dropping bars at your inauguration https://t.co/NaVU1iDban christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) December 23, 2016Teigen is not wrong.
Celebrities are people, too.Of course, Trump supporters attacked Teigen and her husband John Legend and she had no problem mocking them either.Apparently, many have been telling her that she isn t an A-list celebrity.
So, she set them straight.I just have floods of people saying I am not a-list.
I thought it was obvious I was talking about john but nothing is obvious to deplorables christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) December 23, 2016And just for the record, Teigen may not be an A-list celebrity but she s an A-list human being.One Trump supporter attacked her husband s education.
YUUUGE mistake.John went to the same University as the Donald, silly billy.
Only difference was John went at the young age of 16 ?
https://t.co/xKXcSavhix christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) December 23, 2016One Trump supporter even sent Teigen a threat.Retweeting for reference, just in case!
https://t.co/MRvaUtOgGT christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) December 23, 2016Donald Trump and his supporters are truly pathetic and deplorable.Featured Image: Twitter/Flickr