No wonder Donald Trump is accusing everything of being rigged the polls are no longer showing Trump beating Hillary Clinton.
Some polls have her six points ahead, some seven, some as high as fifteen.But a new poll from the conservative Fox News shows a very telling attitude in the public s shift towards Hillary Clinton.
As it turns out, Clinton is leading the conservative-dream-come-true by 10 points, 49 percent to 39 percent, well above the margin of error (3 percent).The poll shows some very good news for Clinton: she s winning over the Obama coalition (which, as we all know, secured his reelection)When it comes to being qualified for the office of the presidency, Clinton leads Trump by 22 points (65-43).When it comes to the temperament to be President?
Clinton, once again, bests Trump, by 27 points (64-37).When it comes to having the knowledge to be President?
Guess who takes the lead!
You guessed it!
Clinton does, by 32 points (72-40).Trump is only winning men by 5 points, 45-40, and whites by 10 points.
Interesting enough, when it comes to whites without a college degree, he leads by only 16.
Considering Trump needs a blowout win amongst whites and men to win, these numbers should make Republicans nervous.
Trump is currently underperforming all of these demographics when compared to Mitt Romney in 2012.When factoring in Libertarian Gary Johnson, who gets 12 percent support, Clinton still comes out on top with 44 percent to Trump s 35 percent.This poll is drastically different than their matchup in May, where Trump was beating Clinton by 3 percentage points, which sent liberals into a frenzy.Something that also helps Clinton?
President Obama s approval rating.
Currently, according to the Fox News poll, President Obama stands at 52 percent approval while 45 percent disapprove.
That s his best showing on a Fox News poll since May 2011 when Osama bin Laden was killed.As Trump continues his decent into madness, Clinton is looking like the savior we ve all needed during this atypical election season.
Liberals, remember, vote!
If one thing rings true it s that Trump is unpredictable.
Who knows what his temper will be like in the next three months.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images