Republican front runner Donald Trump loves to tell Americans how great he is at just about anything but one thing he ll never brag about is how good he is at making himself look like a complete idiot.Trump displayed this not-so-hidden talent perfectly on Monday, when he likely misinterpreted a reporter s question about children born of immigrants that or the candidate has flip-flopped on one of his policies again.
The question was asked during a South Carolina press conference, and the reporter opened by mentioning one of Trump s GOP rivals, fellow candidate Jeb Bush.
The reporter began, You have accused Jeb Bush of being weak on immigration Trump, possessing less manners than a toddler, interrupted the reporter and called Bush Weak, period.
The reporter continued, referring to Obama s 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative, which protects younger illegal immigrants from deployment: There are over 100,000 young people known as DREAMers who have deferred action given to them Trump cut the reporter off once again, telling the audience that Obama s executive action on the matter was great a surprising response considering how hateful the GOP candidate has been to immigrants.When the reporter asked Trump what DREAMers could expect under his presidency, Trump s response got even more bizarre and it started to look like he didn t understand the reporter s question at all!
Never one to admit a mistake, Trump boldly launched into a puzzling rant about dreamers although only he knows what he meant by that.
He said: I want dreamers to come from this country.
You mentioned dreamers; I want dreamers to come from the United States.
I want the people in the United States that have children, I want them to have dreams also.
You can watch the baffling footage below, via MSNBC.Although Trump does have quite a history of changing his views on policies, it s probably safe to say that he was just too stupid to understand what the reporter was really asking him.
Considering all the racist, offensive things that Trump has said about illegal immigrants over the past several months, it s not likely that he had a change of heart he s just dumb.
Featured image from video screen capture