George Stephanopoulos refused to take shit from Mike Pence on Sunday.The ABC host of This Week grilled Pence for repeatedly defending Donald Trump s false claim that 3 million people voted illegally to help Hillary Clinton win the popular vote.
In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally, Trump wrote last month.In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016The claim has been repeatedly debunked ever since and people in both parties have criticized Trump for it.Politifact gave the claim a Pants on Fire rating because Trump got the information from right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones who got it from some guy who refused to provide evidence to support his claim.When Stephanopoulos interviewed Pence, he demanded to know if he thinks it s responsible for Trump to make false claims.
That claim is groundless, Stephanopoulos said.
There s no evidence to back it up.
Is it responsible for a president-elect to make false statements like that?
Pence pathetically defended Trump by bringing up a 2012 Pew Center study that even the study s own author says does not prove widespread voter fraud, especially the kind of voter fraud Trump is claiming.Once again, Stephanopoulos informed Pence that Trump s statement is false.
Pence continued to pretend that Trump has evidence to back up his claim and suggested that he has the right to make claim claims.
I think the president-elect just wants to call to attention the fact that there has been evidence over many years, Pence said.
It s certainly his right.
It s his right to make false statements?
a bewildered Stephanopoulos asked.Pence responded by dodging the question and called Trump refreshing while praising his ability to brainwash people into hanging on his every word.
I think one of the things that s refreshing about our president-elect.
I think he made such an incredible connection with people all across this country because he tells you what s on his mind.
Stephanopoulos refused to let Pence get away with not answering his question.
But why is it refreshing to make false statements?
he asked.And then the interview got testy as Pence claimed that nobody knows if Trump s statement is false or not, leading Stephanopoulos to hit Pence hard to conclude the interview.PENCE: I don t know that is a false statement and neither do you.
There is historic evidence from the Pew Research Center that voter fraud has taken place.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Can you provide any evidence to back up that statement?
PENCE: He s entitled to express his opinion on that.
I think the American people find it very refreshing that they have a president who will tell them what s on his mind.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Whether it s true or not.
Here s the video via YouTube.This is already shaping up to be a most corrupt dishonest adminstration in American history and Mike Pence doesn t even have the balls to call out Trump on his bullshit.Featured Image: Screenshot