Well, that didn t take long.
In the short time since Americans kinda-sorta elected Donald Trump to be Pussygrabber-in-Chief, Trump has appointed a bona fide white nationalist to a high-level position and perform numerous other actions that months ago were considered extremely unlikely nightmare scenarios and the latest seems to be that the Muslim registry the media told us Trump was not serious about might actually happen.Under the Trump regime, Muslim immigrants coming to the United States from what Trump and Pals call terror-prone countries will soon have to register and check in regularly with the government if Trump adviser and Kansas Secretary of State, Kris Kobach, has his way.Kobach says that the Trump administration aims to quickly waste taxpayer dollars on The Wall and that they are moving forward on a proposal to get things rolling with a registry for immigrants from Muslim countries.
Reuters reports:Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who helped write tough immigration laws in Arizona and elsewhere, said in an interview that Trump s policy advisers had also discussed drafting a proposal for his consideration to reinstate a registry for immigrants from Muslim countries.Kobach, who media reports say is a key member of Trump s transition team, said he had participated in regular conference calls with about a dozen Trump immigration advisers for the past two to three months.Trump s transition team did not respond to requests for confirmation of Kobach s role.
The president-elect has not committed to following any specific recommendations from advisory groups.The National Security Entry-Exit Registration System, designed in part by Kovach under the Bush administration, was an ineffective program that singled out Muslims and did not manage to convict a single person of anything related to terrorism.During his campaign, Trump suggested not only monitoring mosques but added that there would need to be a lot of systems that extend beyond databases to keep an eye on Muslims.Kobach says that he and other advisers are also looking into how to get the construction of the border wall moving without approval from Congress.
He says it can happen by reappropriating existing funds, but acknowledges that future fiscal years will require additional appropriations.
Trump has shown us his character in whom he chooses to be part of his administration and through his actions since he has been elected.
Some say to give him a chance, to see how he governs, but the answer is no.
President-elect Pussygrabber has repeatedly demonstrated that he is completely lacking in morals, compassion, decency, and hand size.It is up to each of us to oppose Donald Trump at every turn, to protect what we can of the progress America has made over the last fifty years, to defend our nation in every way we can against this internal enemy.
Recently, John Oliver reminded us not to allow what we are about to live through to become normalized.
Keep reminding yourself this is not normal, Oliver said.
A Klan-backed misogynist internet troll is going to be delivering the next State of the Union address, and that is not normal.
Truer words have never been spoken.Featured image via Getty Images/Matthew Busch