Republicans at the University of North Carolina have gone completely off the rails and are now literally threatening transgender women who use the women s restrooms on campus with the penalty of death.Sadly, there is no amount of exaggeration in that statement.
College Republicans have already made direct threats to the life of one transgender female on campus and are asserting that they will defend their daughters and sisters, with equal force against anyone else they declare a threat.The student who received the threats posted the exchange to Reddit while redacting her name.
College Republicans have completely denied that the exchange occurred, which is not surprising.Portions of the attack, taken from the thread, are listed below: First of (sic), you are a mentally-ill man, no amount of surgery or hormones will change that.
Second, if a tranny like you goes into the women s restroom, then what about the rights of them?
If you value your life, you shouldn t have made this sick choice and settled with the gender God gave you.
Playing into your delusions would make us no better than someone who tolerates pedophiles.
You will never be a woman, and so you should stick with the man s room, as that is what you are, a mentally-ill man.
you are sick and disgusting for mutilating your own God-given body, so a tranny like you find no pity with us.
If you ever dare to set foot into the women s room I will make sure to give you a lesson not to harass our women, you freak of nature.
We will make sure that you trannies do not molest our daughters and sisters.
This comes on the heels of North Carolina passing a license-to-bigot law, otherwise known as a religious freedom law.
Among the usual mundane items of people being protected from the sin of baking gay wedding cakes, it also places restrictions on transgender individuals forcing them to use the bathroom that is associated with their physical genitalia.The UNC College Republicans released a statement denying everything about the incident, claiming that it s a fake story and they never threatened her.
Yeah, I m sure that it s far more likely a transgender student decided to make death threats against herself, rather than just simply pee and go on with her business.The law, despite its utter failures on so many levels, seems to have had its desired effect.
It has now legitimized every phobia and bit of hate that the good moral Christian right-wingers had inside themselves.
They now think that they are within their rights to use deadly force to defend their women.
Thanks, Republicans.
We couldn t have gone full-Christian Sharia in America without you.Featured image via wikicommons