As if Donald Trump hasn t angered enough people already, he has now added the deaf to that long list.According to former staffers who worked on The Apprentice in 2011, the Republican nominee repeatedly questioned Academy Award-winning actress Marlee Matlin s mental capacity and referred to her as retarded just because she happens to be deaf.The staffers came forward to disclose Trump s treatment of Matlin anonymously due to non-disclosure agreements they had to sign.The staffers told the Daily Beast that Trump repeatedly insulted Matlin to her face and behind her back and would often equate that she was mentally retarded.
During the taping of the show, Trump would often scribble down notes while sitting at the table of the boardroom the show s primary set.
A person familiar with the notes who helped clean up after tapings said that on one of the pieces of paper, Trump wrote: Marlee, is she retarded??
Apparently, Trump didn t care about being on a hot mic because one staffer heard Trump make fun of her voice, too.
It actually sounded a lot like what he did [to] the New York Times guy, the staffer described.As you may recall, a writer for the New York Times named Serge F. Kovaleski criticized Trump in an article.
Trump then responded by openly mocking Kovaleski s disability on the campaign trail.Here s a video of the disgraceful incident via YouTube.For the record, being deaf means Matlin can t hear sounds.
It doesn t mean she is mentally impaired.
But Trump clearly either doesn t know the difference or does not care.But reportedly, Matlin didn t let Trump get away with insulting her.
During a segment filmed in the boardroom, Matlin stood up for herself after Trump made insensitive remarks about her and treated her as if she had a mental handicap.Of course, that footage did not air as part of the episode and none of Trump s insults were aired during the season, probably because his behavior towards Matlin would have caused national outrage.And it should definitely cause national outrage now.Donald Trump has a history of insulting people with mental and physical disabilities, and this is unacceptable.Trump should publicly apologize to Matlin for how he treated her and he should definitely drop his bid for the presidency.
America deserves a president who won t look down upon people just because they have a disability.
Disabled people are not inferior.
Donald Trump deserves nothing more than to be a disgraceful footnote in the dustbin of history.Donald Trump deserves nothing more than to be a disgraceful footnote in the dustbin of history.Featured Image: Sara D. Davis/Getty Images