Wednesday evening, Trump surrogate Kellyanne Conway showed up on CNN to do her favorite thing in the world: spew utter nonsense.Accusing CNN of peddling fake news and covering unsubstantiated claims about her lord and master and Russian hooker pee (unlike Buzzfeed, CNN withheld information that was not 100% definitively proven), Conway went on the attack but Anderson Cooper just wasn t going to tolerate any of her bullshit.
Cooper asked Conway if she would be willing to state here and now that the Trump camp s press secretary Sean Spicer had lied when he falsely claimed that CNN had also reported the hooker pee story.
Our press secretary Sean Spicer was absolutely correct and so was our president-elect, Conway said.
Trump himself had refused a question from CNN earlier in the evening, childishly calling them fake news.
You can t say you re not reporting it if it s on your website!
Conway screeched at Cooper, who demanded to know what was inaccurate about CNN s report.
Conway, of course, responded by attacking President Obama for allegedly failing to do enough to stop hacking.
I know you like to pivot, Cooper said as Conway melted down.
That s actually real news!
That actually happened!
Conway sputtered.
I guess what you still have not answered, Cooper said, trying get a word in edgewise as Trump s bleached moron continued babbling that if CNN links to the Buzzfeed report which did happen and is news, contrary to her belief they are reporting it 100% as fact, something Buzzfeed did not even do, as is evidenced by their multiple statements that not everything in the report CNN chose to withhold parts of is verified yet.Cooper asks again: What is inaccurate in our reporting?
Because you said, you weren t in the briefing.
You don t know if what we re reporting is true or not.
You weren t in the briefing and I guess you haven t heard anything about what was in the briefing from anyone who was there How can you say it s not true?
Conway spent the rest of the interview screaming that the media especially CNN, is completely unfair to Trump because they won t ignore everything else that is going on to do fluff pieces about what is going to be in Trump s inaugural address and generally going the one thing she does best (looking like an imbecile).
All the while, Cooper was clearly doing his best not to inform her that she needs to check her battery levels because she appears to be malfunctioning.Watching Cooper somehow make it through this interview without screaming a string of profanities at a person who is clearly too stupid to be around bubble wrap unsupervised Anderson Cooper, you re a true hero.
Watch the interview below:Featured image via screengrab