President Barack Obama brought down the house on the third night of the 2016 Democratic Party Convention when he singled out Republican nominee Donald Trump and gave for the first time his unvarnished opinion of the GOP s party leader.Obama: Anyone who threatens values, "fascists or communists or jihadists or homegrown demagogues, will always fail."
pic.twitter.com/DI77NXhlOI POLITICO (@politico) July 28, 2016Directly contrasting Trump s constant drumbeat of negative attacks against America, the President described the former reality TV star as simply a homegrown demagogue who stands opposed to basic American values.Specifically, Obama said: America has changed over the years, but these values that my grandparents taught me, they haven t gone anywhere.
They re as strong as ever.
Still cherished by people of every party, every race, every faith, they live on in each of us.
What makes us American, what makes us patriots, is what s in here.
Obama then pointed to his heart.
That s what matters, he continued, and that s why we can take the food, and music, and holidays and styles of other countries and blend it into something uniquely our own.
That s why we can attract strivers and entrepreneurs from around the globe to build new factories, create new industries here.
That s why our military can look the way it does.
Every shade of humanity forged into common service.
That s why anyone who threatens our values whether fascist or communist or jihadists or homegrown demagogues will always fail in the end.
The speech is already being described as one of the best Obama has ever given, and was a full throated endorsement of his former rival Hillary Clinton, singling her out as the only person in the race worthy of carrying on the baton from his administration.Obama ended the speech with a surprise appearance from Clinton in the arena.
The audience, already cheering the President s final convention speech as the sitting commander-in-chief, clapped even louder as Clinton and Obama embraced and walked across the stage together in party unity.Featured image via Twitter