If you re not okay with taxpayers paying for exorbitant medical costs, including transgender surgeries for military members, you ll want to remember these names in 2018 A majority in the House voted down a proposal to restrict funding for transgender members of the military, standing by social policy changes enacted by the Pentagon under former President Barack Obama.Rep.
Vicky Hartzler, R-Mo., succeeded in forcing a vote, arguing that Obama s transgender decision is costly in dollars and short on common sense.
The attempted rollback failed on a 209-214 vote, however, as 24 Republicans joined a unanimous Democratic caucus in opposing the proposal.
The Obama transgender policy, which was implemented without input from members of Congress, is ill-conceived and contrary to our goals of increasing troop readiness and investing defense dollars into addressing budget shortfalls of the past, Hartzler said in June.
By recruiting and allowing transgender individuals to serve in our military we are subjecting taxpayers to high medical costs including up to $130,000 per transition surgery, lifetime hormone treatments, and additional surgeries to address the high percentage of individuals who experience complications.
Her amendment would have barred the Defense Department from provid[ing] medical treatment (other than mental health treatment) related to gender transition to members of the military.
Proponents of transgender military service argued that her proposal would reduce military readiness by discouraging transgender Americans from serving.
It would have a negative impact on morale, a negative impact on retention and move us away from the merit-based system which we now have, where we have one set of rules applied to everybody, Rep. Jared Polis, D-Colo., who co-chairs the LGBT Equality Caucus, said Wednesday.Hartzler maintained that her amendment would increase readiness, however.
The deployability of individuals going through the sex transition process is highly problematic, requiring 210 to 238 work days where a soldier is non-deployable after surgery, she said.
This recovery time equates to 1.4 million manpower days where transgender personnel cannot deploy and fight our nation s wars, therefore relying on an already stressed force to pick up the burden.
It makes no sense to purposely recruit individuals who cannot serve.
Washington ExaminerHere s the list of 24 Republicans who voted to keep Obama s transgender policy for our military in place that was implemented without input from members of Congress:Justin Amash (Michigan)Jack Bergman (Michigan)Mike Coffman (Colorado)Barbara Comstock (Virginia)Paul Cook (California)Ryan Costello (Pennsylvania)Carlos Curbelo (Florida)Jeff Denham (California)Charlie Dent (Pennsylvania)John Faso (New York)Brian Fitzpatrick (Pennsylvania)Darrell Issa (California)John Katko (New York)Steve Knight (California)Leonard Lance (New Jersey)Frank LoBiondo (New Jersey)Tom MacArthur (New Jersey)Brian Mast (Florida)Tom Reed (New York)Dave Reichert (Washington)Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (Florida)Bill Shuster (Pennsylvania)Elise Stefanik (New York)Claudia Tenney (New York)h/t Truth Division