The History channel has spoken and Donald Trump s deplorable supporters didn t like the facts one little bit.The 2016 Election was by far one of the most disappointing in American history, not to mention the most devastating to our democracy that will have far-reaching consequences.It is a proven fact that Russia meddled with our political process by hacking into the DNC with the goal of spreading propaganda to make Americans lose faith in the election process and to help Trump win so Putin could have a puppet in the White House.Well, Russia succeeded and Republicans apparently don t have a problem with it because their guy won, which means foreign powers can now interfere in our election.The History channel marked this as a first in American history and posted about it on Facebook.Of course, Trump supporters immediately threw a temper tantrum.
Fake news, one supporter bellowed.
No proof is provided.
History channel please stick to history stories, there are plenty of them.
The CIA and 17 other intelligence agencies concluded that Russia meddled in our election.
That s more than enough proof.
Plus, Trump was told about Russian hacking months ago and he only urged them to keep committing espionage against our country.Despite the evidence, conservatives viciously attacked History channel with all sorts of wild accusations and conspiracy theories smearing Democrats in defense of Russia.Trump supporters are clearly just as thin-skinned and allergic to facts as their dear leader is.
But their hissy fits do not change the fact that Russia did interfere with our election by committing espionage against our country.
And those conservatives who claim that our intelligence community is wrong because they also said Iraq had WMDs are also talking out of their asses.
In reality Bush ignored the intelligence community when it told him that Iraq did NOT have weapons of mass destruction.Donald Trump is an illegitimate president-elect, and his supporters can t handle it.In the end, history will judge the 2016 Election and the next four years under Trump and both will be judged a complete disaster.
Many years from now, the History channel will be airing specials dedicated to examining how Trump made us the laughingstock of the world and how Putin used Trump to prevent the United States from challenging Russian aggression.
That s assuming the United States still exists in four years.Featured Image: Andrew Renneisen/Getty Images