Today, Donald Trump and his team pissed off the Anne Frank Center over his pathetically late condemnation of anti-Semitic crimes while visiting the National Museum of African American History.Earlier today, Trump tried to denounce hate crimes targeted against Jewish people, and the Anne Frank Center correctly pointed out that Trump should have denounced those attacks far sooner, especially since Trump and his administration s actions have perfectly reflected anti-Semitism.
The Center said: His statement today is a pathetic asterisk of condescension after weeks in which he and his staff have committed grotesque acts and omissions reflecting anti-Semitism, yet day after day have refused to apologize and correct the record.
Make no mistake: The Antisemitism coming out of this Administration is the worst we have ever seen from any Administration.
It was a powerful statement, and it was 100% true.
Unfortunately, the way Trump s team has chosen to handle that feedback is disgraceful.
Later that day, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer threw a fit and complained that Trump was never good enough for human rights organizations like the Anne Frank Center.
Spicer said: I saw the statement.
I wish that they had praised the President for his leadership in this area.
The president has made clear since the day he was elected, and frankly going back to the campaign, that he is someone who seeks to unite this country.
He brings a diverse group of folks into his administration, both in terms of actual positions and people who he sought the advice of.
And I think he has been very forceful with his denunciation of people who seek to attack people because of their hate, because of their religion, because of their gender, because of the color of their skin.
And it s something he s going to continue to fight and make very, very clear that [it] has no place in this administration.
But it s ironic that no matter how many times he talks about this, it s never good enough.
Today, I think, was an unbelievably forceful comment by the President as far as his denunciation of the actions that are currently targeted towards Jewish community centers.
But I think that he s been very clear previous to this.
Spicer pretty much serves as Trump s little attack dog, jumping on anyone who criticizes him and calls it like it is.
Here s a news flash, though people treat Trump as if he s not good enough because he s NOT good enough!
He s incompetent, ignorant and has no idea what he s doing and it shows.
For Spicer to go after the Anne Frank Center in defense of Trump is absolutely unforgivable.
You can watch Spicer come unhinged below: Featured image via Win McNamee / Getty Images