New York Daily News stooped incredibly low on April 6, by running a cover story using parts of an interview Bernie Sanders had with the paper s editorial board out of context to attack him.Despite their interview never mentioning Sandy Hook, the article, featuring two Connecticut Hillary Clinton supporters, attacked Bernie Sanders over a false assumption he is against gun manufacturers being sued.In the interview Senator Sanders outlined his gun control agenda, comparing it to President Obama s. When asked whether gun manufacturers should be susceptible to lawsuits (not should they receive immunity), Bernie Sanders said no while his explanation was largely omitted.
In the same sense that if you re a gun dealer and you sell me a gun and I go out and I kill him [gestures to someone in room].
Do I think that that gun dealer should be sued for selling me a legal product that he misused?
[Shakes head no.]
But I do believe that gun manufacturers and gun dealers should be able to be sued when they should know that guns are going into the hands of wrong people, said Senator Sanders.
So if somebody walks in and says, I d like 10,000 rounds of ammunition, you know, well, you might be suspicious about that.
So I think there are grounds for those suits, but not if you sell me a legal product.
Bernie Sanders went on to add he has a D-minus rating from the NRA and lost an election in 1988 by three points against an opponent who was backed by the NRA.
Trying to lie and portray Bernie Sanders as an NRA-backed candidate is preposterous, especially while Hillary Clinton has a former NRA lobbyist, Jeff Forbes, co-hosting fundraisers for her.Gun control is a hot issue among Democrats, and the mainstream media is misrepresenting Bernie Sanders record to favor Hillary Clinton when their agendas are virtually identical, but rather than sensationalize and further divide people on the issue, Bernie Sanders emphasizes prevention.Lawsuits are not meant to replace or make up for ground where legislation or laws have yet to be enacted.
If any dealer or manufacturer acts within the confines of the law, they can t be held accountable in a lawsuit, whether it is guns or any other product.Other parts of the NY Daily News interview have been taken out of context and manipulated by mainstream media.
CNN was recently called out for making it seem as though Bernie Sanders was confused about how he would break up the big banks.
He wasn t and isn t. On CNN, Nomiki Konst corrected an uninformed CNN anchor on what Bernie Sanders said.
Well actually, you know, there s great fact checking done on this in the New York Times, which I hold as a higher standard of a paper I think most New Yorkers hold the Times a little bit higher than the Daily News and New York Post.
But they fact checked this and they basically said that he was right on this.
You know the point if you read the entire transcript, which is very long, took about 45 minutes to read.
He went into detail about how the determination of how to break up the big banks lies within Congress or the president, and the president gives authority to the Fed.The problem is that we take, as we do in the media, take little bits out of context and don t show the full picture.
And to be clear, to be even more fair, Bernie Sanders is the only Senator who brought this up in Congress And you know what?
The Daily News didn t talk about that, but the New York Times did.
The mainstream media needs to stop taking the New York Daily News interview out of context to suit its agenda in trying to stop the surging Bernie Sanders.Featured image via Flickr