Kid Rock, aka Robert (Bob) Ritchie, a native of Michigan who was born and raised in my hometown of Romeo, just announced on Twitter that he s running for US Senate.
As a kid, I remember frequently sitting across from the Ritchie family in our local Catholic church.
Kid Rock is a philanthropist who s done so much to help those in need in the city of Detroit.
He s also very passionate about supporting our troops.
Ritchie s made several overseas trips to play for our troops, and even donated specially designed homes for disabled veterans.
Ritchie (Kid Rock) has not yet announced which party he ll be aligning himself with.
He s been a staunch supporter of Republican presidential candidates in the past like Mitt Romney, Ben Carson and after he won the GOP primary, Kid Rock got behind Donald Trump.
In 2013, Ritchie told Rolling Stones that he considers himself more of a libertarian.
Stay tuned I have had a ton of emails and texts asking me if this website is real https://t.co/RRVgISDFeq The answer is an absolute YES.
pic.twitter.com/uYCUg6mjW1 Kid Rock (@KidRock) July 12, 2017Rock is one of the most prominent right-leaning voices in music, but he s also a somewhat irregular Republican: I don t like the hardcore views on either side and I m not in bed with anybody, he told Rolling Stone in 2013.
I d probably be more libertarian, but I m a firm believer you have to pick a side.
I can t be playing the middle.
If Rock runs as a Republican, he ll be up against Trump s Michigan Campaign Chair, Lena Epstein for the GOP nomination.Lena is a candidate the left will have a very hard time defeating.
She s Jewish, she s a Harvard grad, and she s a tough-minded, successful business woman who wasn t afraid to jump in and support Trump from the moment he announced he was running.
Rock may have his hands full with the very popular Lena Epstein, who we believe has the ability to defeat the very liberal Democrat Senator Debbie Stabenow.
Rock has the star power, but many will question if he s really got what it takes to run for US Senate.CBS Sunday Morning attempts to find out who badass rocker Kid Rock really is in this interview:And for those who might be saying (or thinking) Kid Rock running for Senate is crazy or ridiculous.
Keep in mind that Al Franken has been a Senator for 9 years:Democrats on Twitter right now: "Kid Rock can't be a Senator that's ridicolous!"
pic.twitter.com/WS1z8dlQxq Ken Webster Jr (@ProducerKen) July 12, 2017Nancy Pelosi has been a Congresswoman for 30 years:And Maxine Impeach Trump Waters has held a political position since 1977 and has been serving in the US House of Representatives since 1991!