Don Christy, who claims he s neither a Republican nor a Democrat, but rather, a patriot in the most vile sense of the word, had a float in the town of Sheridan, Indiana s 4th of July parade.
It wasn t all stars and stripes, though.
No, he decided to go way too far with it, and constructed a likeness of President Obama in a toilet, with the words Lying African on it.While sane and reasonable people are questioning the town for even allowing that float, Christy is busy waving his flag and claiming that he tries to do something outrageous every year for that parade, because that makes it totally okay.
Last year, he made fun of marriage equality by dressing gay and marrying a guy in the parade.
This year, he did that horribly disrespectful and bigoted display as a statement against what he sees as rampant dishonesty in the White House, along with political correctness: It s time to start changing our country back a little bit.
Christy is 73 years old, so he remembers well what life was like before African-Americans could even dream of seeing a black man elected President.
That was a great time for white people no minorities, with their irrelevant, irrational feelings were ruining the country for white people with their political correctness.Take a look at the float in all its hateful glory:So.. today in Sheridan Indiana.. somehow this float was approved for their parade .. yea wtf Sheridan.
Classy.
pic.twitter.com/9NEOlMFLIs ashley s mething (@ashleys_mething) July 4, 2016And from another angle: Man drives Lying African Obama float in Fourth of July parade: SHERIDAN, Ind.
Sheridan, Indiana is a small https://t.co/OJE6zirL9E Ogden Daily News (@ogdendailynews) July 5, 2016Christy thinks portraying Obama in one of the most racist and disrespectful lights imaginable is just fun and games, but others aren t laughing at all.
Another Sheridan resident, Rebekah Sanders, said: Too many people die fighting for our freedom.
I don t think that display is the type of freedom they are out there fighting for.
She added: I do not want my child to think that racism is OK.
Unfortunately, Christy doesn t care about that kind of thing.
He s a Trumper, so he probably wants children to grow up in the supremely white environment he grew up in.
He s on King Donald s bandwagon regarding political correctness, and totally missing the point that people always found racism offensive and saw it everywhere.
The only difference is that now they re speaking up about it because they can.Not to worry, though.
Christy issued a totally insincere and backhanded apology for this travesty of a float: I apologize to anyone I offended, which would be a total liberal.
Here s hoping the Sheridan Lions Club bans this small, disgusting excuse of a human being from all future parades.Featured image via embedded tweets