After a decade and a half of peppering nearly every political conversation with as Joe Biden famously said a noun, a verb and 9/11, the mayor who was in charge of New York City during 9/11 appeared to forget it ever happened when he said that terrorism didn t hit our country until President Obama took office.After taking a day of brutal media and Twitter mockery, Giuliani offered an explanation.
He just didn t have enough time to form the couple of extra words, like since 9/11.
I m not there to give a major 45-minute policy address, he said of his Trump introduction Monday in Youngstown, Ohio, where he said plainly that under those eight years, before Obama came along, we didn t have any successful radical Islamic terrorist attack inside the United States.
You speak in somewhat abbreviated language, Giuliani told The News Tuesday.
All human beings speak in abbreviated language at times.
Source: New York Daily NewsEven this short video clip is a minute and 20 seconds long.
He had plenty of time to talk about everything but 9/11.The idea that all (terrorist attacks) started once Clinton and Obama came to office is both false and offensive.
The deadliest terrorist attack happened when Giuliani was in office, and many speculate that things would not have been so bad, especially for the first responders, under a different mayor.More than that, this is a dangerous lie.
As of 2014, 3,158 people have died from terrorist attacks within the United States.
Over 2,900 of those people died during the attacks of 9/11.
Even with the addition of the San Bernardino shooting, far fewer than 100 people have died from terrorist attacks on U.S. soil, at least since Obama took office.Whether or not Giuliani actually forgot 9/11 is irrelevant.
Donald Trump is trying to create an environment in which no one is held accountable for their words, and Giuliani is no exception.
The new way of campaigning, at least for Trump s team, is to spit out ridiculous accusations and assertions and then blame the media for directly quoting them.
Giuliani says he will slip up again, as we all will, but since he s on the Trump team, don t look for any sort of contrition.
Look for doubling down and more lies.Featured image via Jeff Swensen at Getty Images.