It s pretty common knowledge there is no love lost between Valerie Jarrett and the Clinton crime syndicate.
It s also pretty common knowledge who s calling the shots at the White House.
If Valerie doesn t want Hillary to be coronated as the next Democratic Presidential candidate, it s highly likely that in the dirty world of Obama s Chicago thug style politics that Hillary s not gonna be the candidate The lady in waiting will have to keep waiting.
Probably forever.
Fate has spoken.Already threatened by a growing trust deficit with voters, her would-be majesty now faces an even more lethal adversary.
It s called the truth, though she probably sees it as a vast, left-wing conspiracy.The news that two inspectors general from the Obama administration want the Justice Department to investigate her handling of classified material is a potential game changer.
For many Democrats, it will serve as final proof she is fatally flawed.
Her standing will further erode, turning her coronation plans into a long, hot summer.
The drip, drip, drip of details will produce new polls showing a bleeding of support, which will entice other candidates into the race.
Look for Vice President Joe Biden to jump in soon, and lefty Sen. Elizabeth Warren might also take the leap.Meanwhile, Clinton must play defense against her former colleagues in the State Department and intelligence agencies.
Actually, it s worse.
She s almost certainly up against the White House.Somebody very high in the food chain leaked the memos requesting the probe.
The New York Times, which broke the story, identified its source only as a senior government official.
My money is on Valerie Jarrett, the Obamas Rasputin, who is known to despise Clinton.
If it was Jarrett, she would not do this against the president s wishes.That also would be true for any senior government official who leaked the memos.
Targets don t get any bigger than Hillary Clinton, so this was not a rogue operation.
This was an approved hit.Clinton has an enemies list and it looks like she s on Obama s. It s also possible the White House is using the issue to keep her in line on the Iranian nuke deal.
The implied threat is look what happened to Robert Menendez.
Either way, she had it coming.
Her arrogance and bald-faced lies about the emails must have infuriated her boss and colleagues.
Her decision to conduct government business on a private server in her home and use personal email accounts was a giant f k you to the administration.When it was revealed in March that she had deleted tens of thousands of emails before turning over those she deemed government property, she compounded injury with an insulting insistence that she did nothing wrong.
Insiders knew that was a big fat lie.As I wrote then, Clinton s claim that she acted out of convenience was hogwash.
She wanted to keep her correspondence secret from Congress, the media and also from the White House, and the people it stashed at State to watch her.
It s obvious now she underestimated the ammunition she was providing.
As a result, she has put her dream of being the second President Clinton in mortal jeopardy.And her problems may not end with the classified issue.
Any honest prosecutor looking at her emails would also look for evidence she traded government favors for contributions to the Clinton Foundation or paid speeches.She and Bill Clinton were paid $25 million for speeches in just 16 months, and some of that cash came from donors and companies with business before her.
Similarly, big donors to the foundation also sought help from her as secretary.And now a career marked by persistent dishonesty might be nearing the finish line long before she planned.Via: NY Post