Remember the pro-Trump white supremacist PAC that was placing robocalls on The Donald s behalf during the primaries?
Yeah, well, they re back.
And this time, they have unleashed a xenophobic radio ad touting Donald Trump as the champion of Christians.William Daniel Johnson, a Los Angeles attorney, was happy to foot the bill for the new ad via the super-PAC American National.
The white nationalist PAC is not actually affiliated with the Trump campaign, but man, they just love the GOP nominee and his bigoted messages.
Our country is at a crossroads and time is running out, the ad begins.
It then throws in some good old-fashioned anti-brown people fearmongering and asks, Do you want a strong leader who will secure our borders and stop the flow of illegal aliens and radical Islamic terrorists?
And follows up with a reminder that a vote for Trump is clearly a vote for Jesus, asking, Do you want a president who will safeguard the interests of Christians?
So just who is William Johnson?
Well, for starters, he a well-known white supremacist who says he wants to create a white ethno-state because that s the only way western civilization and the white race will survive.
Johnson is also serving as the president of the American Freedom Party (AFP).
According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the AFP was initially established by racist Southern California skinheads, and aims to deport immigrants and return the United States to white rule.
There was an uproar when it was discovered that the Trump campaign had chosen Johnson to serve as a delegate.
Following the backlash, the campaign claimed it was all a mistake due to a database error and Johnson stepped down.
The AFP said it was no big deal because plenty of other of white supremacists were serving as Trump delegates.The robocalls Johnson sponsored during the primaries featured such phrases as, We don t need Muslims.
We need smart, well-educated white people.
In another call, an older woman identified herself as a proud member of the AFP and said, I am voting for Donald Trump because he will not only be presidential, he will put America first.
Furthermore, he will respect all women and will help preserve Western civilization.
Trump was pressured into giving one of his half-ass condemnations of the robocalls, but he followed it up by excusing the calls as simply the result of people being angry.
So no harm, no foul.Johnson also set up a 24/7 hotline offering legal advice and emotional support to Trump fans who felt they had been bullied by one of Hillary s evil liberal minions.The radio ad is scheduled to air in Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Missouri, Nevada, Oregon, and Tennessee.Featured image via Christopher Gregory/Getty Images