Bombs a-w oh, never mind Things must be going well in the war on terror, as the US Air Force just admitted that it is fast running out of bombs to drop on ISIS after B-1s have dropped bombs in record numbers.
As ZeeNews reports, Air Force chief of staff General Mark Welsh said as America ramps up its military campaign against the Islamist terror group, the Air Force is now expending munitions faster than we can replenish them.
The US Air Force is fast running out of bombs to drop on ISIS targets in Syria and Iraq after its pilots fired off over 20,000 missiles and bombs since the US bombing campaign against the terror group began 15 months ago, its chief has said.
As ZeeNews reports, B-1s have dropped bombs in record numbers.
F-15Es are in the fight because they are able to employ a wide range of weapons and do so with great flexibility.
We need the funding in place to ensure we re prepared for the long fight, Welsh said in the statement.
This is a critical need, he said.The bombing campaign has left the US Air Force with what an Air Force official described as munitions depot stocks below our desired objective.
The Air Force has requested additional funding for Hellfire missiles and is developing plans to ramp up weapons production to replenish its stocks more quickly.
But replenishing that stock can take up to four years from time of expenditure to asset resupply, the official told CNN.
The precision today s wars requires demands the right equipment and capability to achieve desired effects.
We need to ensure the necessary funding is in place to not only execute today s wars, but also tomorrow s challenges, the official said.
As The Washington Times concludes, Russia has been bombing ISIS positions sporadically while France and Great Britain are now active in the American-led coalition which could relieve some pressure.Much larger potential adversaries like Russia or China most surely are following this development carefully.
If the USAF cannot sustain a trickling battle against a poorly armed, medieval enemy, fighting a superpower military is obviously beyond its capability.Via: Zero Hedge