If there s one thing about Donald Trump that pretty much everyone knows by now, it s that he s never wrong.
Well, at least according to Donald Trump.
He ll never admit a mistake, he ll double down on controversial statements, and heaven forbid he s asked a question he doesn t want to answer, or even worse, challenged on an answer on live television.
The latter is exactly what Megyn Kelly did in the first GOP debate, and oh boy, has that thrown Trump into full tantrum mode, especially finding out she ll be moderating the next GOP debate to be held on Fox News.
He literally told CNN s Wolf Blitzer: I mean, I don t like her.
She doesn t treat me fairly.
So, in turn, Trump is threatening to boycott the next debate because he thinks Kelly is a meanie.Trump even took his sophomoric toddler behavior to Twitter and Instagram and polled his followers:Should I do the #GOPdebate?
https://t.co/cjTywwIl85 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 26, 2016 Should I do the #GOPdebate?A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Jan 26, 2016 at 10:04am PSTAll of this led Fox News to issue a reply that was absolutely accurate.
Probably one of the few times they ve said something that is completely true.
A network spokesperson said: Sooner or later Donald Trump, even if he s president, is going to have to learn that he doesn t get to pick the journalists we re very surprised he s willing to show that much fear about being questioned by Megyn Kelly.
They basically called Trump out for being terrified of Megyn Kelly.
If he s terrified during a debate because he s asked questions he doesn t completely fancy, how is he going to deal with leaders around the globe who would inevitably call him out all the time for the decisions he would make as Commander-in-Chief?Fox also told Mediaite is a statement that was pure gold: We learned from a secret back channel that the Ayatollah and Putin both intend to treat Donald Trump unfairly when they meet with him if he becomes president a nefarious source tells us that Trump has his own secret plan to replace the Cabinet with his Twitter followers to see if he should even go to those meetings.
Fox News had the perfect response to Trump s hissy fit over Megyn Kelly moderating the next debate.
If you desire to be leader of the free world, you re going to have to realize people aren t going to kowtow to your every whim, and bullying really isn t an option with diplomatic relations.
Trump needs to grow the f*ck up.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr)