There have been weeks of reports that White House Chief Strategist Stephen K. Bannon and Senior Adviser and Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner have been at each other s throats.
Reportedly, the infighting is so bad that White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus had to moderate a meeting between the two so that they could call a truce.
Now, new comments from Donald Trump suggest that he s not so hot on Bannon these days, and if it comes down to it in a knock down, drag out, Bannon v. Kushner fight, Kushner will definitely emerge the victor.Michael Goodwin of the New York Post asked Donald Trump if he was still confident in Bannon s abilities, and for the first time, Trump didn t give a full-throated defense of his white supremacist Chief Strategist.
In fact, he seemed to want to downplay the level of Bannon s influence in both the campaign and the White House.
Trump told Goodwin: I like Steve, but you have to remember he was not involved in my campaign until very late.
I had already beaten all the senators and all the governors, and I didn t know Steve.
I m my own strategist and it wasn t like I was going to change strategies because I was facing crooked Hillary.
When White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer was asked about the Bannon v. Kushner feud, he tried to say that the media was making too much of it: There s a lot of stuff that was overblown about this that makes it out into the media sometimes and gets a little more sensational than it really is.
Of course, this directly contradicts Trump s comments to the New York Post.
In addition to the aforementioned statements, Trump also said: Steve is a good guy, but I told them to straighten it out or I will.
So, in other words, it looks like Bannon is on the chopping block.
Perhaps the rest of the white nationalist Pepe brigade will be ousted with him if and when he goes.
It s a shame that we have sunk to the level in 2017 of hoping to get avowed white supremacists out of the White House, but here we are.
Murica.Featured image via Mario Tama/Getty Images