If there s anyone who shouldn t be pointing fingers at other men for the mistreatment of women, it s probably Donald Trump.
Yet today, Trump completely ignored his grotesque track record with women, as well as his own rape allegations for the sake of a childish attack on his rival, Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton.In the complete absence of self-awareness, Trump posted an attack ad on Hillary today via Instagram, bringing to light past allegations of sexual assault against her husband, former president Bill Clinton.
This isn t the first time Trump has attacked the Clintons this way, and they ve done a decent job defending themselves.
But this time, Trump has taken things a step further by actually using recordings of the victims accusing Bill.
As the ad comes to a close, Hillary is heard laughing while ominous music plays in the background.You can watch the attack ad below:Is Hillary really protecting women?A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on May 23, 2016 at 8:27am PDTAs Hillary has positioned herself as being a champion for women (as she was long before her presidential campaign began), Trump feels that his best shot at turning female voters away from the former Secretary of State is to highlight her husband s problematic sexual past.The interesting thing about this is that Trump himself has seemingly forgotten that he has also been accused of rape.
In trying to smear the Clintons with this nasty ad, Trump has ironically and unintentionally made a case against himself.
In the 1990s, Trump s first wife Ivana had accused the business mogul of brutally raping her while they were still married.
Here s what Ivana said, which appeared in the Trump biography Lost Tycoon:Ivanka Trump statementAnd Trump s misogynistic attitudes toward women don t stop there.
He s been accused of groping women, being super creepy when it comes to sexualizing his own daughter, has attacked numerous female celebrities, personalities and politicians including Fox News Megyn Kelly and Senator Elizabeth Warren, and said that women should be punished for seeking abortions.
Not to mention, there is a never-ending list of every misogynistic, sexist thing Trump has said or done to women.
So while Trump is trying to soil the Clintons name, all he s really done is just put a spotlight on himself.
There s a reason why almost 75% of American women don t like The Donald, but he seems to live in denial.Featured image is a screenshot