Something extraordinary happened that is certain to have Republicans and Republican voters everywhere furious Fox News just admitted that the United States deficit is at its lowest level since 2008.
That s right, since the last Republican was in office.
You have to admit, this must have taken a lot of courage on the behalf of Fox News to admit something like this.
It goes directly against their bash President Obama for everything policy.However, there it is, in bold print on FoxBusiness.com:They even published this, which will make every Republican that follows Fox News as a religion and believe without question, do a double take: The U.S. ran a budget surplus in January, dropping the annual deficit to its lowest level since August 2008, the Treasury Department said Wednesday.The U.S. deficit fell to $405 billion over the 12-month period ended January, or around 2.2% of gross domestic product, boosted by a $55 billion surplus in January.
The deficit figure was down from the year-earlier $495 billion, or 2.8% of GDP.
Quite a change of heart when Fox News actually sees the results of Obama s actions.
Unlike how they behaved years ago after the president first took office, which you can view here, when they completely ignored deficit reduction:Fox Business even explained how the reduction in deficit was achieved: Revenues stood around 6% above their year-earlier levels, while outlays were around 3% higher.
Receipts of $314 billion collected by the Treasury was a record for the month of January.The latest report showed annual revenues posted their slowest rate of growth since August 2012.
Corporate tax receipts for the fiscal year, which began Oct. 1., ran around 10% below their year-earlier level.
Individual taxes withheld by employers and payroll tax revenues were up 3%, while other individual taxes, such as capital gains, were 8% higher.
Funny how when you have a president that truly believes in math, they can actually achieve success in regards to deficit reduction, and understands that in order to pay for things, we need revenue coming in.
Republicans have yet to figure that out.Now, if only we could get Republicans to actually look at the presidents latest budget, which as of now, they have simply refused to even entertain.The GOP is literally a vomit stain on the rug of America that we can t seem to remove.Featured image from Flickr