Donald Trump has been asked by Republicans to not tweet during former FBI Director James Comey s testimony to Congress, so that task has apparently been given to his demon spawn instead.In his opening statement released on Wednesday, Comey shed light on a dinner he had with Trump in which Trump demanded Comey s loyalty.
I need loyalty, I expect loyalty, Trump said in January according to Comey.Comey then gave details of a meeting he had with Trump in February after the firing of Mike Flynn for having discussions with Russian officials.The President then returned to the topic of Mike Flynn, saying, He is a good guy and has been through a lot.
He repeated that Flynn hadn t done anything wrong on his calls with the Russians, but had misled the Vice President.
He then said, I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go.
He is a good guy.
I hope you can let this go.
It certainly sounds like Trump is guilty of trying to obstruct justice and that he fired Comey in order to sabotage the Russia investigation.As Comey testified in the Senate on Thursday, Donald Trump Jr. went on a tirade over it.1/3 Flynn stuff is BS in context 2 guys talking about a guy they both know well.
I hear I hope nothing happens but you have to do your job Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 8, 20172/3 very far from any kind of coercion or influence and certainly not obstruction!
Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 8, 20173/3 Knowing my father for 39 years when he orders or tells you to do something there is no ambiguity, you will know exactly what he means Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 8, 2017Hoping and telling are two very different things, you would think that a guy like Comey would know that.
#givemeabreak Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 8, 2017Twitter users were quick to eat him alive.So that s how it works.
Donald Trump s son hears different words to the ones actually coming out of his mouth.
https://t.co/uLIiUNnCeG Ciaran Jenkins (@C4Ciaran) June 8, 2017Your dad has conditioned you to hear what you want to hear.
Crenshaw (@okie210) June 8, 2017Uday chimes in David J. Maloney (@David_J_Maloney) June 8, 2017Your dad was just called a liar by the head of the FBI, multiple times.
AugieBunker (@AugieBunker) June 8, 2017This would hold up if you ignore the fact that your father then fired Comey for doing his job.
Maybe time to let the adults talk, Donnie Paul L. (@Lummis83) June 8, 2017So why did your pops fire Comey if all Trump was doing was hoping Comey would drop the Flynn investigation?
Adam (@ChiProg) June 8, 2017Grow up boy, he is not a CEO but the President, different standards.
Lee P. (@leeshutterbug) June 8, 2017Are you kidding me!
You need to educate yourself.
It IS obstruction!
AvaHarlow (@AvaHarlow) June 8, 2017.
@realDonaldTrump so you think the POTUS should be suggesting that someone obstruct justice.
#beginningoftheend #fakepresident gaeagirltalks (@gaeagirltalks) June 8, 2017Yes, when he says, Eric, use your charity to take money from cancer patients and put it in MY pocket, he means it!
Chris Floyd (@empireburlesque) June 8, 2017Donald Trump obstructed justice.
He should be impeached and prosecuted along with every single of of his minions, including his complicit little brats.
Trump demanded that Comey be loyal and then fired him because he refused to drop the investigation against Flynn.
He should be in prison, not the White House.Featured image via screenshot