Hell just froze over, because Fox News is now on President Obama s side when it comes to his new gun safety executive order.Bill O Reilly said, during a segment on The O Reilly Factor, that the NRA and gun owners need to accept that background checks for buying guns are reasonable.I know how unbelievable that sounds, but here it is in a video:Could we possibly have hit a point where the Republican establishment has finally had it with the monster they created in 2008?
Has the NRA and its head idiot, Wayne LaPierre, finally become caricatures of themselves that are too embarrassing even for people like Bill O Reilly and Fox News?Here is something that I never, ever thought I would say in my life: I agree with Bill O Reilly, especially on the part about being paranoid.
However, there is one part where Bill just had to veer back into the realm of stupidity so he could throw his audience a bone likely to prevent them from throwing a beer can through their TV screen at home.
Bill openly addressed President Obama while saying a firearm registry will not solve America s gun problem.The sudden burst of common sense from Bill couldn t last forever.
It is a well documented, checked fact that President Obama does not want to create a gun registry.
This was proven when the last universal background check bill completely outlawed the creation of one.Obama s openly accused the NRA of lying about this, from a Rose Garden press conference: They claimed that it would create some sort of big brother gun registry, even though the bill did the opposite.
This legislation, in fact, outlawed any registry.
Plain and simple, right there in the text.
But that didn t matter.
The latest Quinnipiac poll, from December 23, 2015, shows background checks have an absolutely MASSIVE amount of support across the board.Photo: QuinnipiacIt has had this kind of support since after the Sandy Hook massacre, give or take a relatively negligible variance in points, so to act like all of a sudden it is reasonable is strange at best.Regardless of the details, the simple fact that Fox News and Bill O Reilly in particular are siding with President Obama on gun control is nothing short of a noteworthy event in American history.
The internal Republican fallout will be amazing to watch.Featured image via video screen capture