A couple of weeks ago, Donald Trump s voter fraud commission requested that each state provide a list of data on registered voters all to combat phantom voter fraud.Fortunately, the vast majority of states have refused to cooperate at all, and even the handful that has agreed has refused to fully comply with the request, which included names, addresses, birthdays, party affiliation, last four numbers of Social Security numbers and voting history for the last 10 years.Democrats have seen states refusal as a victory, but it s possible that even without the information, Trump and Republicans have won.
Voters, concerned about the integrity of their private information, are being scared off and we have proof:In Colorado, one of the states that is complying with part of the commission request, two clerks have seen a significant increase in voters withdrawing their voter registration, Denver s ABC affiliate reported.In Denver, one clerk has seen a 2,150 percent increase in people withdrawing as voters over the past since July 3 compared to the first non-holiday week before.Colorado allows voters to withdraw online or make their information confidential by paying a fee.While there s no indication of party affiliation, and you can be sure that many were, in fact, removing duplicate registrations (it s not illegal to forget to take yourself off a voter registration when you move, but it is illegal to vote twice, which almost never happens) it s not a big leap to assume that Democrats would be far more concerned about the Republican in office than would Republicans.It has gotten to the point where Republicans can only win on a national basis by cheating and they are getting better and better at it every year.
In 2016, it s clear that Hillary Clinton would have won if not for voter suppression efforts that targeted the all-too-important swing states.Think Progress reports:Their systematic disenfranchisement was intentional and politically motivated.
In the years leading up to 2016, Republican governors and state legislatures implemented new laws restricting when, where, and how people could vote laws that disproportionately harmed students, the poor, and people of color.
In several instances, lawmakers pushing such policies said explicitly that their goal was suppression of voters who favor the Democratic Party.Three such states serve as case studies for the effectiveness of these voting restrictions: Wisconsin, North Carolina, and Florida.All three elected staunchly conservative governors during President Obama s terms.
All three implemented voting restrictions that affect millions of people.
President Obama won all three states in 2008, and won all but North Carolina in 2012, while Hillary Clinton lost all three of those states this year.Colorado is also a swing state.
Hillary Clinton won in 2016, but by a fairly slim margin.
State races are even tighter.
It wouldn t take a lot of voters dropping out to sway the next election.
It may have already been done.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images