The overwhelming response to her temper tantrum was so humiliating that Sarah Palin removed the outrageous tweet.Just after midnight on Wednesday morning, Palin apparently learned that former San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick donated money to Meals on Wheels.Palin has relentlessly targeted Kaepernick because he exercised his freedom to kneel during the national anthem in protest of police brutality against people of color.Kaepernick is currently a free agent and will likely find a new team before the next NFL season begins, but that didn t stop Palin from gloating about his current status.In response to Donald Trump s draconian budget that slashes funding for Meals on Wheels, a program that helps millions of senior citizens get a meal and a well-being check every day from a volunteer, Kaepernick donated $50,000 to the organization.For some reason, Palin has a problem with this and she threw a mini hissy fit on Twitter complete with a link to a story on her own website.Palin soon deleted the offensive tweet and we ll get to the reason why shortly, however, a screenshot was obtained by a Twitter user.Since she deleted her tweet, here s the screengrab where she mocks Kaepernick for donating to Meals on Wheels.
pic.twitter.com/yPFYgR23zu Rey Azure McSriff (@aguyuno) March 22, 2017As you can see, Palin mocked Kaepernick for currently not having a job, even though there are still quite a few months before the next NFL season begins and free agency is part of the game.Palin linked to story on her website that called Kaepernick s donation a purely political stunt.
You know, because Palin doesn t believe Kaepernick is capable of such a generous gesture out of the kindness of his heart.The article has also been removed.And that s because Palin was buried under such an avalanche of humiliation that she was forced to do so.In particular, Twitter users pointed out that Palin herself does not have a job.
She s a mere grifter who quit her previous job as Governor of Alaska because it was easier to swindle money out of her gullible fans.imagine being so racist you get mad a black athlete for donating to meals on wheels https://t.co/wIEa4RBK3s Adam H. Johnson (@adamjohnsonNYC) March 22, 2017@SarahPalinUSA Has your lazy ass ever finished a job?
Drew MacDonald (@DrewYouRiot) March 22, 2017@ItsTonyNow What is Sarah Palin s job exactly Harvey K. ?
(@krallenbauche) March 22, 2017@SarahPalinUSA you dismiss donating to the needy as a political stunt?
Wilson (@mikebabaganoosh) March 22, 2017And that s pretty much how it went until Palin was so shamed that she took down her tweet and the article.Perhaps, next time, Palin will criticize Donald Trump for cutting Meals on Wheels instead of attacking someone for helping them.
Of course, that would be something only a human being with a soul would do.