Donald Trump hasn t even been President 100 days and already some are apparently forming the idea that it s cool to post slave sale ads on Craigslist.A Florida high school student snapped a photo of two of his African-American classmates sitting at their desks at Fleming Island High School.
In a post geotagged to Fleming Island Plantation, a neighborhood in the town, the unnamed student posted an ad to Craigslist: Two healthy negro slavegals for sale.
Good condition and hard work ethic!
If you need another pair of hands around the farm/house, you re in luck!
One of the victims sister tweeted an image of the ad:This is what happened to my sister (in the blue) who attends Fleming Island High School in Jacksonville, FL.
This is NOT OKAY AT ALL!!!
pic.twitter.com/vhhGyZZ5aP yossiana (@yossiana22) April 27, 2017 I never thought somebody would do this to me.
I had friends texting and calling me, senior Skye Fefee, one of the students in the photo, says.
Everyone started tagging me in the post, and then my mom saw it and was disturbed by it I was really upset about it because Fleming Island is known for racial slurs.
This school year someone wrote on the toilets, whites only.
The student who posted the ad was suspended for a meager ten days, but was referred to an alternative school by the principal.
The school board will ultimately decide whether to remove the student, send him to alternative school permanently, or expel him.Superintendent Addison Davis issued a statement in response encouraging parents to take the time to inform their kids that it s not cool at all to sell your classmates into slavery: We do not tolerate this type of behavior and we are disheartened that any of our students would be subject to discrimination.
Fleming Island High School administration and district leadership are working together to create a schoolwide plan of action to strengthen the climate and culture while celebrating the school s diversity.
We encourage parents and guardians to take the time to talk to their child about this important matter.
Feefee says she wants to see the person who posted this expelled, adding that the administration doesn t pay attention to this sort of behavior regularly.Donald Trump s election has allowed racists to express themselves as never before, as he has filled his administration with white supremacists, Nazis, and other assorted fascists, racists, and utter scumbags.What a great example for our kids.Watch a news report below:Featured image via screengrab