Just when we think that the Bundy Militia morons couldn t possibly surpass the amount of stupid they have already demonstrated, one of them surprises us.
On Friday, Ryan Bundy, leader of Y all Qaeda, decided that he didn t need no stinkin lawyer and is going to represent himself.Bundy is facing charges for possession of firearms in a federal facility, conspiring to impede federal officers from doing their jobs at the Malheur Wildlife Refuge, theft of government property as well as possessing and using a firearm while committing a violent act.
He could face up to life in prison if convicted.U.S.
District Court Judge Anna Brown warned Bundy that it wasn t a particularly bright idea to represent himself, saying, The stakes here are extremely high.
But Bundy was not dissuaded, he said that he was upset that his younger brother, Ammon Bundy, was told to let his lawyers speak for him during his hearing: I need to be able to speak when the time is right .I feel it very important that I need not be silenced when I need to be able to speak.
The judge asked Bundy if he has any courtroom experience and he said he d represented himself before.
However, the previous outcomes in those cases were not exactly favorable.
As Oregon Live reported in January:2007: Arrested on suspicion of interfering with a legal arrest.
He waived his right to an attorney and demanded a jury trial, only to change his plea to no contest on the day of the scheduled trial.
He was sentenced to six months of probation in November 2008, ordered to take a life skills class and fined $500, court records show.2011: Found guilty of several vehicle-related citations, including an equipment violation and driving on a restricted license.2012: Arrested on an allegation of misdemeanor theft.
A judge ordered the charges to be dropped if Bundy fulfilled 18 months of probation.2014: Charged with interfering with an animal officer.
He pleaded no contest in April 2015, but not before he was arrested on a failure-to-appear warrant.
He ended up paying a $150 fine.If this case turns out like those, he s definitely going to prison for a long time.
Of course, that s where he and his fellow occupiers belong anyway maybe the court will allow him te represent the rest of them too.
Featured image via Multnomah County Sheriff s Office