The only thing sadder than losing a Republican presidential race to a reality tv show host is then having to grovel at the feet of said reality tv show host and beg for scraps.
And in 2016 there is no sadder sad sack than Ben Carson.
The one time presidential front runner has spent the past few weeks shamelessly stumping for a guy who once couldn t wait to spread vicious rumors about him.
And all for the off-chance that Trump won t forget about him once he becomes emperor president.But wait, what about Chris Christie?
Surely, the New Jersey Governor who has had to grin and bear it while Trump mocks him to his face while standing next to him at political rallies has had it worse!
Sadly, not.
Because as low as Christie s self-esteem gets and it s gotten very low there is something singularly depressing about the position Carson is in.
After all, when you find yourself defending Donald Trump s comparison of you to a child molester, you ve dug a hole for yourself so deep that you re on your way to China.Alas, here s Carson doing just that.In an interview with Yahoo News, Carson was reminded of the time that Trump, in an egotistical rage, decided to link Carson to that of a child molester.
But not before labeling Carson a pathological liar first.
When he says he s pathological and he says that in the book, I don t say that and again, I m not saying anything, I m not saying anything other than pathological is a very serious disease.
And he said he s pathological, somebody said he has pathological disease.
That s a big problem because you don t cure that as an example: child molesting.
You don t cure these people.
You don t cure a child molester.
There s no cure for it.
Pathological, there s no cure for that.
Was Trump calling Carson a child molester?
Of course not!
He was merely saying Carson s pathology was of the same level as that of one.
To which Carson responded on Wednesday: You have to admit to a degree [Trump comparing me to a child molester] did work.
Adding: A lot of people believed him.
Well said, Mr. Carson.
Clearly you are a man of such integrity that you won t even defend yourself when a dumpster fire with a hair piece accuses you of being of the same mental health as a child predator.
Gifted hands.
No spine.Carson s endorsement of Trump has always seemed particularly vile because he had previously spent his entire campaign focused almost entirely on pretending to care about the angry rhetoric in the race.
Repeatedly, he called for candidates to tone down the mudslinging (to no effect.)
His I quit speech explicitly lamented the toxic state of the race.
Here s how he described his ideal candidate:Carson stated that in choosing the next person to lead America, you d need someone who has demonstrated significant accomplishment whose ideas and policies are clear, and whose character would be revealed by how they treat others and their family.
We d also need to see what they have done for America.
And then he picked the exact opposite, Donald J. Trump.Featured image via Yahoo News