James Harris Jackson, 28, eventually surrendered to police in New York City to admit to fatally stabbing a 66-year-old black man in the chest with a 26-inch sword that has an 18-inch blade.
The sword exited the victim s back after being plunged into his chest.
Jackson, an army veteran from Baltimore, held a long-time hatred of black people and had traveled to Manhattan with the goal of killing black men.This is an attack you won t see amateur president Donald Trump tweeting about.Timothy Caughman, 66, the white supremacist s victim, stumbled into a police station bleeding from stab wounds to his chest and back, Assistant Chief William Aubry, the commander of Manhattan South detectives, told reporters at Police Headquarters, according to the New York Times.After taking down his first victim, Jackson set his sights on another black person just blocks away but something reportedly spooked him.
He appeared to be very close, following a black guy, a source said.
He slows down and at one point he turned around and came back.
It s clear he was really focused on the guy for some time.
Then, he falls out of camera view and doesn t attack the guy.
He made statements that he was following the guy but something spooked him.
Jackson was arrested on a charge of second-degree murder, but the chief said they wanted to upgrade the charge by classifying it a hate crime.Watch:.
@NYPDMTS walk James Harris Jackson, an army veteran & member of a hate group in Maryland, accused of killing a #NYC black man @NYDNVideo pic.twitter.com/DWwGxM0GgG Edgar Sandoval (@edjsandoval) March 22, 2017Surveillance video of Jackson near the scene:Jackson admitted to police that he was a member of a white supremacist group and said that he detailed his racist views on his laptop computer, according to the Daily News.Jackson told the authorities that he initially wanted to stab a black man, then grab a police officer s gun and shoot some people, a police source said.Aubry said, He wanted to make a statement.
Jackson told police that he has been harboring (racist) feelings for quite some time, and it s believed he had these feelings for over 10 years, police said.
He knew what he was doing when he was coming up here, Aubry said at a press conference.
It is believed he was specifically intending to target male blacks.
It s been well over 10 years that he has been harboring his hate towards blacks.
Jackson reportedly said he doesn t like interracial relationships.
More than an unspeakable human tragedy, this is an assault on what makes this the greatest city in the world: our inclusiveness and our diversity, Mayor de Blasio said Wednesday.
Now it s our collective responsibility to speak clearly and forcefully in the face of intolerance and violence here or across the country.
We are a safe city because we are inclusive.
We are a nation of unrivaled strength because we are diverse.
No act of violence can undermine who we are.
The last words Caughman said to his attacker were, What are you doing?
Good question.Image via screen capture.