A Texas mother recently woke up to possibly one of the most infuriating things a parent can see a nasty, bigoted message on Facebook that was warning her about her lesbian daughter.
Cassie Watson s daughter, Ali Chaney, was sent home from school last month for wearing a t-shirt that read, Some people are gay.
Get over it, in rainbow letters.
That s how this teacher knows Ali is gay.The message in question said:The teacher, who appears to be a woman named Janice Williams, tried to weasel out of taking responsibility for this when she was asked about the offensive message: My FB account was hacked yesterday and I was not responsible for the message sent to the lady causing her to believe that her child would be harmed.
It took several attempts to delete the account after notifying FB that my account had been hacked.
I have lived my life protecting the rights of others and being an advocate for ALL children.
I m saddened that a hacker can cause such negativity and division among so many people.
Please give my sincerest apology to this woman and her child.
Thank you.'
Oh, bull cookies.
Isn t that always the fallback excuse when you write something horrible like that to someone?
My account was hacked.
However, like any sane person would when confronted with something that sounds like so many hollow excuses, Watson called it garbage.
The school district says the t-shirt was disruptive, because several students had complained.
Like telling LGBTQ students they have to kowtow to the whims of homophobes or be singled out and punished isn t disruptive.
Nevertheless, they stood by that decision, issuing a statement that said: Our purpose at CCISD is to educate children, first and foremost.
According to CCISD s dress code in the student handbook and code of conduct, clothing that is disruptive to the learning environment based on reactions by other students is prohibited.
The student was offered a school shirt to wear and declined.
There s more, though.
KCEN-TV reached out to the district and discovered that this teacher resigned way back on June 3, well before this message was sent, and for a reason completely unrelated to this situation.
One might think that Williams felt free to spread her homophobia because she wouldn t face any consequences for doing so.This is not something that anybody should ever send out, because it just perpetuates the cultural problem that played a huge role in the Orlando massacre.
Anybody who would send a message like that has their hands covered in the blood of the LGBTQ people who have died in hate crimes.Featured image via screen capture from KCEN-TV news report and Facebook