How much longer will the citizens of San Juan, Puerto Rico put up with this loudmouth, liberal mayor trashing the leader of the nation who is bending over backward to ensure the delivery of much-needed food, water, and aid to bankrupt Puerto Rico?
Americans are sick and tired of San Juan s Mayor Carmen Yul n Cruz bad-mouthing our President, and now, his wife Melania, every time a liberal network puts a microphone in front of her face.After President Trump s acting DHS Chief gave an optimistic view to reporters of how things were progressing in Puerto Rico, the San Juan mayor lashed out, saying, People are dying in this country.
I am begging, begging anyone that can hear us, to save us from dying.
If anybody out there is listening to us, we are dying, and you are killing us with the inefficiency and the bureaucracy.
On Monday, President Trump took to Twitter to criticize Mayor Cruz for poor leadership ability.
Trump also claimed that the island s leaders want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.
Such poor leadership ability by the Mayor of San Juan, and others in Puerto Rico, who are not able to get their workers to help.
They .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017 want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.
10,000 Federal workers now on Island doing a fantastic job.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017Daily Caller San Juan Mayor Carmen Yul n Cruz insisted Saturday that she had, no time for small politics or for comments less than two minutes before attacking President Trump.On CNN Newsroom With Ana Cabrera, Cruz told Anderson Cooper, I smiled.
Really, in response to President Trump s tweets about her.
I have no time for small politics or for comments that really don t add to the situation here, she added.Just about a minute later in the interview, Cooper said, the President also says in a tweet early this morning that you had been nice to him early on but that Democrats told you, you have to be nasty towards him.
Mayor Cruz responded to Andersen Cooper by taking a swipe at First Lady Melania Trump, saying, I don t know.
Maybe he s used to women who have to be told what to do.
That s not who we are in San Juan.
Watch:In a 2014 interview, Cruz revealed her feelings about how she believed that woman in politics can t play nice , Politics is a rough game, and sometimes as females, we are taught that you have to play nice.
Sometimes you can t play nice.
When your bankrupt country is in desperate need of help, and the nation you are relying on for that help has a leader who is bending over backward to save you, it s probably not the right time to not play nice.