Larry Lindsey fought hard for Trump in Colorado during the primaries.
He passed away hours after recording his final goodbye.RIP patriot.
President Trump, Vice President Pence and General Mattis, I would like to say that the greatest honor of my life has been to wage this battle with you.
I have been prouder of being a Marine than anything I have ever done in my life.
Having a hand in some small way in fighting for my country has meant the world to me.
There is no greater honor for me, to have great men like you leading this country back to its foundation and back to God.
President Trump, I have no doubt in my heart and in my mind, that you will be perhaps the greatest President in the history of our country.
Vice President Pence, I am so honored to call you my Vice President.
You are an incredibly good man and probably the only Vice President in probably 150 years to have any brains, and I appreciate that from you.
The candor and the honesty from both of you men is much needed at this day and time.
General Mattis, sir, it appears that I am now out of ammunition, but I continue to fight with my last breath.
I do not fear death, because I know where I m going and I m only going home for a rest.
It s you people here, the good people of America for whom I cry, my loved ones and my friends and the sacrifices they must continue to make in this fight to restore our country.
Dying is the easy part.
Dying is the comforting part if you know who your God is and you know that he holds your hand, and I do.
I praise God for a wonderful life, so many wonderful blessings that I have known and so many wonderfully kind and loving people in this country whom I have met during my fight for this country.
I want you to know, each and every one of you that we have taken on a challenge that has only just begun.
The real battle lies ahead.
And General Mattis, I have only one request sir, and that is, Give em hell.
Semper fi.God bless.
Larry Lindsey fought hard for Trump in Colorado during the primaries.
He passed away hours after recording his final goodbye.RIP patriot.
pic.twitter.com/mJB1bn1XZN Alex (@SoCal4Trump) December 18, 2016