On Monday night, Stephen Colbert was on fire.
Trump went after one of Colbert s network colleagues, John Dickerson, calling the program Face the Nation, Deface the Nation.
That didn t go over well with the comedian, who went on a rant against Trump.
Mr. Trump, your presidency?
I love your presidency.
I call it Disgrace the Nation.
You re not the POTUS.
You re the BLOATUS.
You re the glutton with the button.
You re a regular Gorge Washington.
You re the presi-dunce, but you re turning into a real prick-tator.
Sir, you attract more skinheads than free Rogaine.
You have more people marching against you than cancer.
You talk like a sign language gorilla who got hit in the head.
In fact, the only thing your mouth is good for is being Vladimir Putin s [censored] holster.
Your presidential library is going to be a kids menu and a couple of Juggs magazines.
The only thing smaller than your hands is your tax returns, and you can take that any way you want.
Since then, conservatives have suddenly become the arbiter of political correctness and they suddenly give a crap about gay people, well, they care that their beloved leader had a sex joke made about him, which somehow makes Colbert homophobic.
#FireColbert immediately became a trending hashtag on Twitter.I am a conservative who respects free speech.
However, I will boycott you show and any sponsors of your show.
No CBS 4 me #FireColbert Vote Trump 2020 (@GoTrumpFL) May 4, 2017I actually feel sorry for the people who regularly watch this loser @StephenAtHome .their souls must also be full of hate!#FireColbert pic.twitter.com/UsXRgEkqQ5 Dash Riprock (@PhilMcCrackin44) May 4, 2017So Mr. Colbert has no regrets for his hateful comments about our our Pres.??.
Guess we ll have NO regrets to #BoycottCBS!
??#FireColbert!
pic.twitter.com/aGA4ooiGrY RanneG (@ruthieanneCCOT) May 4, 2017Only liberals can say the most vile things about the @POTUS on national T.V., refuse to apologize and get away with it.
#FireColbert #MAGA pic.twitter.com/Q60zgowGqL John Paul (@JohnPaul_USA) May 4, 2017Apparently, John Paul never watched Fox News during the Obama administration.Colbert really didn t care about the backlash, although he did admit that he would change a few words that were cruder than they needed to be.
Politically correct conservative little snowflakes are taking it to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to complain and they are opening an investigation.
We are going to take the facts that we find and we are going to apply the law as it s been set out by the Supreme Court and other courts and we ll take the appropriate action, he told Talk Radio 1210 WPHT Thursday.
Traditionally, the agency has to decide, if it does find a violation, what the appropriate remedy should be, he said.
A fine, of some sort, is typically what we do.
Ajit Pai, who heads the administration, is an Obama appointee but was made head of the FCC by Donald Trump, so yes, he does have a political position and it s not hard to imagine that the thin-skinned dictator wannabe is putting pressure on Pai.
After all, in Trump s short history, he has already fired several people who dared disagree with, or would potentially disagree with, Der Orange F hrer.That s not to imply that Pai is corrupt.
He s already given himself an out for punishing Colbert and CBS by noting that standards are different for late night TV than they are for daytime or prime time.
Let s hope he maintains his integrity.Featured image via video screen capture.