Local Charlotte, NC news station WSOCTV is reporting that sources tell them dash cameras captured Keith Scott getting out of car and coming towards officers with a gun in his hand:#BREAKING: Sources tell Channel 9 dash camera video shows #KeithScott getting out car, coming toward officers with gun in his hand pic.twitter.com/GGuM2Ow3wk WSOCTV (@wsoctv) September 21, 2016For a second night, protests over a deadly officer-involved shooting in Charlotte, North Carolina, turned violent, with police firing tear gas and demonstrators throwing objects and trying to damage vehicles.Keith Lamont Scott, a father of seven, was killed by police in an apartment complex parking lot Tuesday as officers looked for another man named in a warrant they were trying to serve.
The shooting set off a long night of violent protests and Wednesday the demonstrations continued for a second night, starting off as a peaceful march through downtown Charlotte.
But when the demonstrators neared an Omni Hotel, some people climbed the roof of an outdoor mall and started throwing objects at the crowd.Other people were banging on the doors of the hotel, and police in riot gear emerged in the entrance.His family said Scott, an African-American, was unarmed and sitting in his car reading a book, waiting for his son to come home from school.But Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Chief Kerr Putney said Scott exited his car with a gun, not a book.
He said officers couldn t find a book at the scene.
It s time for the voiceless majority to stand up and be heard, said the police chief, who is black.
It s time to change the narrative because I can tell you from the facts that the story s a little bit different as to how it s been portrayed so far, especially through social media.
CNNBut b b but what about the book?Neighbor who says she saw police shoot #KeithScott disputes CMDP's claim that he was armed with a gun.
She says he had a book.
@wsoctv pic.twitter.com/X1PWw5QJ7O Mark Barber (@MBarberWSOC9) September 21, 2016And of course, there s Hillary s irresponsible tweet confirming that the cops were in the wrong, without even having any facts to back up her ignorant statement:Keith Lamont Scott.
Terence Crutcher.
Too many others.
This has got to end.
-H Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 21, 2016