If Donald trump wants to have a good relationship with the press he can start by apologizing for bullying them.But until he does, Nicolle Wallace believes Trump will continue to be a threat to the free press.During an appearance on Meet The Press with some former White House Press Secretaries to discuss Trump s relationship with reporters, Wallace pointed out that what is happening is unprecedented in American history.Chuck Todd noted that Trump already has an antagonistic relationship with the press and he hasn t even taken office yet.Former Clinton Press Secretary Joe Lockhart explained that the relationship between the press and the president is mutually beneficial and that press briefings are important because both sides get something out of it.
But Lockhart believes that will change on January 20th because Trump is manufacturing his own facts like Nixon did.Todd pointed out that partisans delegitimized the press and that s when Wallace tore Trump a new one.
We have just elected a man who bullies female reporters at his rallies as an applause line, Wallace said.
We have just elected a man who started a hot war with a female anchor instead of attending a debate she moderated.
We are in a new place.
And I don t think it s good.
And I don t think it has any parallels to the past.
I don t think Trump needs the press but he wants it like an addict craves their drug.
Wallace went on to slam Trump for suggesting that he will eliminate the protective press pool that accompanies the president wherever he goes because that pool exists so that when something major happens like 9/11 the president can speak to the American people and the world immediately.Lockhart, meanwhile, chimed in with the suggestion that the press stop printing every word Trump says and start digging deeper to find out what s really happening.
Here s the video via YouTube.We have freedom of the press in this country and Trump needs to understand that.
Because right now it sounds like he intends to do everything he can to punish reporters for doing their jobs.
The way Trump is treating the press right now is the way dictators do.
And that cannot be allowed to happen in America or democracy and transparency will be lost.Featured image via screenshot