The eating habits of President Trump have been scrutinized by the press many times during his campaign and presidency.
Once again, the President s diet will be under the microscope of the media because of former Speaker New Gingrich providing an advanced copy of his new tell-all book, Understanding Trump, to the Washington Examiner.
Anytime a meal was served when I flew with candidate Trump aboard his nicely outfitted 757, it was invariably McDonald s, Wendy s, or a similar fast food, wrote Mr. Gingrich in his new book.
Gingrich doesn t hold his tongue in his new tell-all that accounts the time he spent as a Trump advisor during his campaign and as acting President.Ironically, Gingrich is not the first House Speaker to comment on Trump s nasty health habits.
I think his family should be concerned about his health, Rep. Nancy Pelosi said on MSNBC Thursday.
I m concerned about his fitness for office.
Time reported that his staff are forced to cater to his big ego AND bad diet choices As he settles down, they bring him a Diet Coke, while the rest of us are served water, with the Vice President sitting at one end of the table.
With the salad course, Trump is served what appears to be Thousand Island dressing instead of the creamy vinaigrette for his guests.
When the chicken arrives, he is the only one given an extra dish of sauce.
At the dessert course, he gets two scoops of vanilla ice cream with his chocolate cream pie, instead of the single scoop for everyone else.
On top of his food choices, he s also been criticized for the bizarre way he eats.
Pizza with a knife and fork?
Weird.Apparently, once you start chowing down on fast food with a knife and fork, you don t go back.
Or maybe the cutlery just makes him feel better about his KFC habit?Great afternoon in Ohio & a great evening in Pennsylvania departing now.
See you tomorrow Virginia!
pic.twitter.com/jQTQYBFpdb Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 2, 2016It will be interesting to see what comes out of Gingrich s book about the lifestyle of our President.
Base on his current track record of bizarre habits, it should be pretty entertaining and probably gross.