By now, all of us know that Trump is a complete a**hole.
Even his brainless, delusional supporters are aware of this, and it s one of the things they love most about him.
Perhaps this is the only thing we ll ever agree on when it comes to Trump that the guy is just a total douchebag.
But according to some recent comments, there s actually one person who thinks Trump has been pleasant and nice so far in this campaign Donald Trump himself.Just a day after Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton wrapped up her wildly successful and historical Democratic National Convention, Trump channeled his jealousy and rage into a ridiculous speech while at a rally in Colorado.
Implying that Trump felt he s been nothing but cordial this far, the brash business mogul said: I m taking the gloves off.
Take the gloves off.
Right?
Taking the gloves off!
Just remember this: Trump is gonna be no more Mr. Nice Guy.
This of course, follows the epic temper tantrum Trump threw on Twitter.
Trump got himself all riled up as his rant continued, begging his followers to Tell Hillary I m not gonna be nice anymore as if Clinton has somehow mistaken Trump for a genuine, honest and friendly human being.
He spewed: I ve been very nice to her.
So you ready?
Actually, some of the folks I defeated they probably would say, Boy, he was not very nice.
They keep screaming.
And you know what I do?
I ve been nice.
But after watching that performance last night such lies I don t have to be so nice anymore.
Obviously threatened by how much Clinton is being praised not only by Democrats but by Republicans as well, Trump used one of the only things he could against her by bringing up her email scandal, which has already been cleared by the FBI several times.
Trump said: I ve been saying let s just beat her on Nov. 8, but you know what?
You know what?
I m starting to agree with you, I ll tell you.
Sorry to say.
You can watch Trump s speech below:It s hard to imagine how Trump is going to manage being more offensive and awful, but he has always managed to up the ante in the past, so it looks like we re going to find out.
Either way, after the power and confidence we saw in Clinton last night at the DNC, there s no one better to take on Trump.Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images