While Donald Trump officially assumes the office of President on Friday, he says he ll be leaving the Oval Office chair empty until Monday.
According to Trump, he ll spend the weekend partying instead of presidenting.In an interview with the Times of London, Trump said, One of the first orders I m gonna sign day one which I will consider to be Monday as opposed to Friday or Saturday.
Right?
I mean my day one is gonna be Monday because I don t want to be signing and get it mixed up with lots of celebration, but one of the first orders we re gonna be signing is gonna be strong borders.
Note, this is the same man who once said about President Obama, It was reported today he played 250 rounds of golf and he s going to be in Hawaii, I think did they say for three weeks?
Trump said.
Two hundred and fifty rounds, that s more than a guy who plays in the PGA Tour plays.
He played more golf last year than Tiger Woods.
We don t have time for this.
We have to work.
While 250 rounds might sound like a lot, over eight years, that amounts to less than one round every 10 days.
Historically, though, 250 rounds is a tiny blip.
Woodrow Wilson played nearly 1,200 rounds during his administration and George W. Bush had Obama beat in vacation time.Trump s announcement probably won t sit well with his sycophants whose hopes hung on the 21 things he promised he d do on day one.
Day three, day four, what s one more day for the leader of the free world?The internet, of course, exploded:The same people who spent 8 years counting POTUS every round of golf now have no problem w/ Trump taking his FIRST weekend off.
Amazing.
April (@ReignOfApril) January 17, 2017He told us months ago he plans to go home for the weekends.. of course he s taking his first weekend off.
https://t.co/0GZPOOp0FS The Anti-Trump (@IMPL0RABLE) January 17, 2017Leave it to Trump to kick off MLK weekend by attacking civil rights icon John Lewis, reminding us what the orange face of hate looks like.
Bill Madden (@activist360) January 14, 2017Somebody needs to tell the Idiot in Chief that the presidency isn t a part time job.
#notmypresident #TheResistance https://t.co/yx2T8kIQKg America s Idiot (@_AmericasIdiot) January 17, 2017In fairness, everything won t get *really* bad until Monday because Trump said he s taking the weekend off.
Not even joking.
https://t.co/xmCug6ADvV Matt Novak (@paleofuture) January 17, 2017Trump is taking the weekend off.I suppose he ll need time to heal once the Bible bursts into flame after places his hand on it.#resist Steve Marmel (@Marmel) January 17, 2017After inauguration on Friday, Trump to take weekend off for celebrations and pony rides and face painting.
https://t.co/FmXGEzjcwG Writer in Residence (@MikeCullen73) January 17, 2017Trump really think he gets the weekend off?
Someone please explain to him its not that type of gig https://t.co/6NFYZWbG3B Insanul Ahmed (@Incilin) January 17, 2017Of course, there is no explaining anything to Trump.
He plans to make the Office of the President whatever he wants it to be, no matter how bad it is for the American people.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images