The people who actually know what is at stake when it comes to national security under a Trump administration are not happy at all.
That would be the likely reason for the unprecedented number of leaks coming from within the government regarding the Trump White House and the activities therein.
One such person is long time CIA Operative and National Security Council Spokesman Edward Price.Price wrote an absolutely scathing indictment of Trump in the Washington Post regarding his inability to continue to work in the intelligence community with Trump as Commander-in-Chief, and even put out a video revealing what he thinks of the person currently leading the nation as well.
While noting that he has been proudly serving his country for years regardless of which party controlled the White House, Price noted how Trump s issues go beyond anything he has seen before and could ever tolerate: I watched in disbelief when, during the third presidential debate, Trump casually cast doubt on the high-confidence conclusion of our 17 intelligence agencies, released that month, that Russia was behind the hacking and release of election-related emails.
On the campaign trail and even as president-elect, Trump routinely referred to the flawed 2002 assessment of Iraq s weapons programs as proof that the CIA couldn t be trusted even though the intelligence community had long ago held itself to account for those mistakes and Trump himself supported the invasion of Iraq.
Price then went on to go all in on Trump s disgraceful comments in front of the CIA Memorial Wall, where he should have been there to thank the intelligence community s officers for keeping us safe, and to honor those who so bravely did in the line of duty in service to all of us.
Instead, Trump relitigated his election victory, and boasted about crowd sizes and criticized the press.
Price says of that event: Trump s actions in office have been even more disturbing.
His visit to CIA headquarters on his first full day in office, an overture designed to repair relations, was undone by his ego and bluster.
Standing in front of a memorial to the CIA s fallen officers, he seemed to be addressing the cameras and reporters in the room, rather than the agency personnel in front of them, bragging about his inauguration crowd the previous day.
Whether delusional or deceitful, these were not the remarks many of my former colleagues and I wanted to hear from our new commander in chief.
Finally, Price gives us the straw that really broke the camel s back for him, the way Trump elevated white supremacist Steve Bannon on the NSC:The final straw came late last month, when the White House issued a directive reorganizing the National Security Council, on whose staff I served from 2014 until earlier this year.
Missing from the NSC s principals committee were the CIA director and the director of national intelligence.
Added to the roster: the president s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, who cut his teeth as a media champion of white nationalism.
It is great to see good patriots like Edward Price coming out so bravely and saying what needs to be said: That Trump is unfit to be president, and is making dangerous and reckless decisions as Commander-in-Chief.
We can only hope that there is some mechanism in place for these good people to be able to refuse reckless orders from this clearly mentally ill narcissist who belongs in the nut house rather than in the White House.Watch Edward Price scorch Trump in absolutely epic form below:Featured image via video screen capture