If you ve spent much time on social media, you might notice that almost regardless of the subject, a string of anti-Hillary memes seems to just automatically show up.
That s not a coincidence.
It s all part of a highly coordinated shitposting designed by billionaire and Oculus founder, 24-year-old Palmer Luckey.Luckey is best known as a boy genius who invented his version of virtual reality goggles, called the Oculus Rift.
Facebook bought Luckey s company in 2014 for $2 billion.
Forbes estimates that he s worth about $700 million.The epicenter of his trolling seems to come from Reddit, where he uses the pseudonym NimbleRichMan.
Luckey is a backer, likely the key backer of a pro-Trump 501(c)(4) charitable social welfare organization that s dedicated to backing Trump.
If you think that sounds seriously sketchy, you d be right.
According to the IRS, a 501(c)(4) is not supposed to have politics as its primary activity, and any politicking it does is not tax exempt.
The Daily Beast published an expose on Thursday, which says in part:Nimble America says it s dedicated to proving that shitposting is powerful and meme magic is real, according to the company s introductory statement, and has taken credit for a billboard its founders say was posted outside of Pittsburgh with a cartoonishly large image of Clinton s face alongside the words Too Big to Jail.
We conquered Reddit and drive narrative on social media, conquered the [mainstream media], now it s time to get our most delicious memes in front of Americans whether they like it or not, a representative for the group wrote in an introductory post on Reddit.People on Reddit aren t happy.
In fact, the biggest pro-Trump subreddit, r/The_Donald, refused to believe that Luckey was NimbleRichMan, but Luckey insisted that he s just the money behind the idea and well, he did it for a lark because, you know, screwing with the future of the free world is fun!
I ve got plenty of money, Luckey added.
Money is not my issue.
I thought it sounded like a real jolly good time.
He prides himself on putting out memes that are so bad that even the Trump campaign wouldn t promote them.Before you think he s a Millennial who is still angry that Bernie Sanders didn t win, think again.
He has zero problems with money in politics.
The American Revolution was funded by wealthy individuals, NimbleRichMan wrote on Saturday.
Luckey confirmed to The Daily Beast he penned the posts under his Reddit pseudonym.
The same has been true of many movements for freedom in history.
You can t fight the American elite without serious firepower.
They will outspend you and destroy you by any and all means.
Luckey isn t just spending money on anti-Hillary memes.
He s spending money to support Trump.As an early supporter of @Oculus this makes me sick to my stomach.
This is the org @PalmerLuckey is backing Cc @TechCrunch @UploadVR pic.twitter.com/athqtwol7e Cody Brown (@CodyBrown) September 23, 2016This is a message from @PalmerLuckey, the founder of @Oculus.
pic.twitter.com/CWlAA8ugMx Cody Brown (@CodyBrown) September 23, 2016Luckey has apparently been banned from Twitter, but that doesn t mean that Nimble America, along with the backing of white supremacist and Breitbart propagandist, Milo Yiannopoulos.
They plan on releasing more memes and purchasing billboards.It s not clear if Luckey has maintained any sort of relationship with Facebook or if he has pull with the organization.
Let s hope not.
While 4Chan, who is responsible for many of the anti-Hillary paid trolls throughout social media, is also associated with r/The_Donald, there s no evidence, at this point, that Luckey is behind financing that movement.
Stay tuned, though.Featured image via Bryan Steffy/Getty Images.