Sen. John McCain (R-AZ), fresh off a brain cancer diagnosis that he is statistically unlikely to beat, is apparently all out of f*cks to give.
Today, he tweeted an article in the opinion section of the Washington Post, calling it a must-read.
The article in question?
Trump s breathtaking surrender to Russia.
And the op-ed holds absolutely nothing back.
Here are a couple of my favorite excerpts from the piece:But once again, President Trump after extended personal contact with Vladimir Putin and the complete surrender to Russian interests in Syria acts precisely as though he has been bought and sold by a strategic rival.
The ignoble cutoff of aid to American proxies means that Putin won in Syria, as an administration official was quoted by The Post.
Concessions without reciprocation, made against the better judgment of foreign policy advisers, smack more of payoff than outreach.
If this is what Trump s version of winning looks like, what might further victory entail?
The re- creation of the Warsaw Pact?
The reversion of Alaska to Russian control?
There is nothing normal about an American president s subservience to Russia s interests and worldview.
It is not the result of some bold, secret, Nixonian foreign policy stratagem the most laughable possible explanation.
Does it come from Trump s bad case of authoritarianism envy?
A fundamental sympathy with European right-wing, anti-democratic populism?
An exposure to pressure from his checkered financial history?
There are no benign explanations, and the worst ones seem the most plausible.
The problem is the damage to U.S. interests done in the meantime.
It now seems that the Russians by meddling in a presidential election and by playing down such aggression have achieved an intelligence coup beyond the dreams of the Soviet era.
The result is an America strategically and morally disarmed.The fact that John McCain is posting such a strongly worded article about Trump s surrender to Russia is extremely telling, and begs the question: Behind closed doors, how many other Republicans feel this way?
In public, it s obvious that Republicans feel they must present a united front against the Democratic Party and forces of the left.
However, despite recent silence from #NeverTrump conservatives, it wasn t even a year ago that leadership figures such as Paul Ryan were dead set against him.
Given the fact they are spineless, how much pressure will it take to get them to turn against him?If Donald Trump s numbers keep dropping, primarily among Republicans, I think you ll see it happen.
And if that s the case, it might not take until 2018 to bring him down.Here s Senator McCain s tweet:Must-read @MJGerson @washingtonpost: Trump s breathtaking surrender to #Russia https://t.co/SkWocuF8dM John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) July 21, 2017Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images