A Michigan Republican may have literally guaranteed that he won t get another term in Congress.Republicans across the country have been cowardly avoiding holding town hall events because thousands of their angry constituents have been showing up to protest their effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, a move that would strip healthcare away from millions of Americans and drive up the price of healthcare beyond what many can afford.And that s exactly what happened on Saturday in Michigan when Rep. David Trott actually had the balls to show his face to his constituents in the 11th district he supposedly represents.However, things went spectacularly wrong for Trott from the beginning as the 1,000 people in attendance were not amused by his defense of the repeal effort.
The crowd booed him and chanted, Vote him out!
Things got even worse when Trott lied by claiming that the United States military is the weakest it s ever been.
In fact, our military is the most funded military on the planet.
It could be cut in half and still be the most well-funded military on Earth.
Claiming that our military is weak is not only a lie, it s an insult to every American who currently wears the uniform.But in response to being booed off the stage, Trott dug the hole deeper by getting caught on a hot mic conspiring with one of his aides to portray his own constituents as un-American.
We re going to take that part where they re booing funding the military and I m going to get somebody to write a story and we re going to promote the sh*t out of that, an aide told Trott behind closed doors.
It s un-American crap.
Here s the video via YouTube: That s right.
A Republican congressman is literally going to get someone to write a cheap propaganda story for him so he can accuse his own constituents of hating the military and portray them as un-American in retaliation against them for booing him and his lies.Forget waiting until the next election, Trott should be forced to resign in disgrace right now for what his aide just said about his own constituents.Featured image via screenshot