The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) is so upset by Donald Trump s racist and bigoted presidential campaign they are redirecting past donations they have received from the reality TV star and real estate tycoon into programs designed to fight bigotry.The ADL made their announcement in a press release:The Anti-Defamation League has decided to redirect the total amount of funds contributed to ADL by Donald Trump and his foundation over the years about $56,000 in all to fund new anti-bias and anti-bullying education programs across America.
In the past decade or so, Mr. Trump and his foundation have contributed a total of $56,000 to our organization.
These undoubtedly were sincere gifts, said Jonathan A. Greenblatt, ADL CEO.
But in light of the recent campaign, we have decided to redirect the total amount of funds that he contributed to ADL over the years specifically into anti-bias education programs that address exactly the kind of stereotyping and scapegoating that have been injected into this political season.
The announcement was made in advance of Trump s planned speech to AIPAC, the pro-Israel American Israel Public Affairs Committee.ADL also called on other groups, philanthropies and nonprofits to consider redirecting charitable funds given to them by Mr. Trump into similar initiatives to combat hate, promote tolerance, and build a stronger American community.
Jonathan A. Greenblatt, CEO of ADL, specifically referenced Trump s rhetoric especially his penchant to slander minorities, slur refugees, dismiss First Amendment protections and cheer on violence.
During the campaign, Trump has said he would look into measures to curtail the First Amendment rights of the media with regards to stories he felt were unfair towards him.
He has called for protesters at his rally to be punched, knocked out and manhandled (his campaign manager was recently caught on video grabbing a protester by the collar).A centerpiece of Trump s campaign has been attacking undocumented immigrants, blaming them for rape and drugs.
He has also called for a limit on Muslim travel to the United States.Featured image via Flickr