If Donald Trump doesn t want to be booed or lampooned over the next four years he should start acting presidential instead of like a big baby.Instead of putting on his big boy pants and accepting the reality that people are going to boo him and Mike Pence for the way they have treated others, Trump chose to lash out after hearing that Pence was booed by the audience at a performance of Hamilton on Broadway.But Trump focused his ire on the cast for reading a message to Pence at the end of the play.Our wonderful future V.P.
Mike Pence was harassed last night at the theater by the cast of Hamilton, cameras blazing.This should not happen!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 19, 2016The Theater must always be a safe and special place.The cast of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence.
Apologize!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 19, 2016The cast and producers of Hamilton, which I hear is highly overrated, should immediately apologize to Mike Pence for their terrible behavior Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 20, 2016Despite Trump s claims, the cast of Hamilton did not disrespect Mike Pence.
They merely expressed their hope that he learned something by watching the play and the hope that he will be a vice-president for everyone.
And even Mike Pence has twice said that he wasn t offended.
So, Mike Pence wasn t offended and Donald Trump was, Kimmel said.
Why do I feel like we re going to see a lot more of this dynamic?
Who gets into a fight with a musical?
Kimmel continued.
How is it possible that Donald Trump can get along with Putin but not Hamilton?
Kimmel went on to say that if Trump really wants Hamilton to apologize he should apologize to the long list of people he insulted and offended over the last year and a half and proceeded to run that list on the screen.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump cannot continue lashing out every time he he thinks someone is disrespecting him.
We have freedom of speech in this country and our leaders are supposed to be busy running the nation instead of ordering people to be nice to them.
The bottom line is that the level of disrespect towards Trump is nowhere near to how conservatives have treated President Obama for the last eight years.
So Trump should stop being a total hypocrite, and if he can t do that he should step aside, tell the electors he can t do this job, and allow an adult like Hillary Clinton to do it.Featured Image: Screenshot