President Barack Obama is sick and tired of talking about Republican nominee, and he didn t hesitate to let everyone know how eager he is for Trump to disappear from the political limelight.While on his 16-day vacation in Martha s Vineyard, Obama took a short break to join Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton at a fundraiser and honored everyone in attendance with an insult the GOP will never forget.
Speaking to the 60 donors in attendance, Obama said: I know this is not an audience where I need to make a hard sell.
To some degree, I had you at hello when it comes for voting for Hillary.
Then Obama laid down some cold truth for the Republican party Trump is doing such a good job at destroying himself that no one needs to spend time and energy making a case against him: Frankly, I m tired of talking about her opponent.
I don t have to make the case against her opponent, because every time he talks, he makes the case against his own candidacy.
Ouch.
The GOP knows this is true, too they are currently planning on dumping Trump if he can t stay on message and turn his campaign around.
Without a doubt, Obama s words are going to hit too close to home.Obama also spoke about the GOP s unrelenting negative campaign against Clinton, and urged Americans to continue to take this election seriously and be fierce in getting their fellow Americans to the polls to vote against Trump, even though numerous sources report that Trump s campaign is tanking.
Obama warned that this is no time to relax: If we are not running scared until the day after the election, we are going to be making a grave mistake.
If we do our job, then Hillary will be elected president of the United States.
But if we do not do our jobs, then it s still possible for her to lose.
When I say do our jobs, what I mean is we are going to have to continue to be engaged, we are going to continue to have to write checks, we are going to continue to have to make phone calls and rally people behind her candidacy.
Obama doubled down and said We have to be aggressive in our campaign for 80 days and that s not a lot, but when you think about the stakes, there s nothing more important.
Featured image via Pool and Joe Raedle/Getty Images