Full Frontal host Samantha Bee returned on Monday to continue mocking evangelical conservative Christians and their sordid history.This time, Bee focused on the Moral Majority s obsession with abortion and controlling women s bodies.When the show kicked off, Bee introduced the next part of her examination of the history of the evangelical movement.
Last week, we took a look at the religious right those coveted evangelical voters that conservatives spent decades pandering to only to be dumped just before November prom for a heretical billionaire bully who only says the word God when he is ejaculating on a pile of money, Bee said.Bee then explained how evangelicals were not obsessed with abortion when the Supreme Court ruled 7-2 that a woman s right to choose an abortion is protected by the Constitution in the landmark Roe v. Wade case in 1973 because the decision was supported by the Southern Baptist Convention at the time.
It wasn t until later on that conservatives decided to politicize the issue.Bee went on to introduce one of the founders of the pro-life movement.Filmmaker Frank Schaeffer not only admitted to helping found the movement, he said he regrets it.
One of the things that I did back in the day when I was young was help found, start, begin what became known as the pro-life movement, Schaeffer said.
It is the single greatest regret of my life.
We made a film series called Whatever Happened to the Human Race featuring my dad Francis Schaeffer and Dr. C. Everett Coop.
Bee then played part of the series, which looks like a horror film.
Another clip featured a Schoolhouse Rock vibe but the cartoon was equally horrible.According to Schaeffer: Most evangelical leaders didn t want anything to do with it.
They wanted to just preach Jesus.
They thought politics was dirty.
They didn t want anything to do with it.
We had to talk them into it.
And so, evangelicals began their hostile takeover of the Republican Party and proceeded to prove their pro-life credentials by committing 185 arsons, 42 bombings, 100 acid attacks, 26 attempted murders, and 11 murders against clinics between 1977 and 2015.Bee even noted where Republicans got the idea for their war on women by showing a Little Rascals short featuring Spanky founding the He-Man Woman Haters Club.
Spanky then raises his arms and Bee stops the clip and shows an image of Trump raising his arms the same way.Then Bee put on the finishing touches by showing video of one of the thousands of annoying anti-abortion nuts screaming outside of a clinic about how the Bible is against abortion.
Fine, Bee said.
Let s look at everything the Bible says about abortion.
Oh, look!
There it is in the book of doesn t exist.
Here s the video via YouTube.Samantha Bee should continue this series on the history of the religious right because she is doing a fantastic job of shining a light on them.Featured Image: Screenshot