Anthony Weiner, the husband of Hillary Clinton s closest aide Huma Abedin, has checked into a rehab facility for treatment of sex addition.Out-of-control Weiner, who has been sending sexually-charged messages and obscene pictures to women and at least one teenage girl for years, is now in a treatment facility, DailyMail.com has learned exclusively.Friday s dramatic disclosure by the FBI that it had discovered new emails relevant to their investigation into Hillary Clinton s secret server was a shock unprecedented in electoral history.
At the center of it, however, is the tragedy of Anthony Weiner s sex addiction.
The rehab center where Weiner is being treated separates men and women and its program includes counseling for those addicted to cybersex and exhibitionism as well as addictions to anonymous sex and porn.WEINER WAS A REPEAT OFFENDER BUT HIS LAST CASE WAS WITH A MINOR A 15-YEAR OLD!In the online messages, Weiner, 51, sent bare-chested photos of himself to the underage girl, repeatedly called her baby and complimented her body, and told her that he woke up hard after thinking about her, according to copies of the conversations.
In one particularly lewd message, he told the teen: I would bust that tight p***y so hard and so often that you would leak and limp for a week.
When confronted with the claims, Weiner did not deny exchanging flirtatious messages with the teen.
He declined to comment on the specifics of the allegations on the record, but provided copies of two emails the girl sent him that he contends raised questions about her claims.ANTHONY WEINER gave a statement to DailyMail.com:He says, in part: I have repeatedly demonstrated terrible judgement about the people I have communicated with online and the things I have sent.
I am filled with regret and heartbroken for those I have hurt.
I have repeatedly demonstrated terrible judgement about the people I have communicated with online and the things I have sent.
The revelation comes just weeks after Weiner s wife Huma Abedin announced that they had separated in the wake of another sexting controversy.
In August, the New York Post reported on sexual chats between Weiner and a 40-year-old woman, during which the former congressman sent her provocative shirtless photos of him while his four-year-old son was curled up next to him in bed.
Weiner has faced a number of sexting scandals since 2011, when he was forced to resign from Congress after his online sexual messages with a female college student were revealed.
Another sexting scandal in 2013, involving 22-year-old Sydney Leathers, derailed his bid for New York City mayor.
In the course of that scandal, his alias Carlos Danger was disclosed.Read more: Daily Mail