Another mother who lost her son in military combat is blasting Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump for his attack on the family of deceased serviceman Humayun Khan.Karen Meredith s son, First Lieutenant Ken Ballard, died in combat in Najaf, Iraq in 2004.In a press release from the veterans advocacy group VoteVets, Ms. Meredith wrote: The parents of Humayun Khan showed great courage, standing up in front of the Democratic Convention.
Mrs. Khan, who was too grief-stricken to speak to such a large audience, showed extraordinary courage and strength by standing on stage with her husband.
For Donald Trump to insult their culture, by saying that is why she did not speak, is offensive.
She continues: Donald Trump has already disrespected our POWs, and our veterans, and now, he has insulted the fallen and the families of the fallen.
This is an attack on all Gold Star Families.
It is an attack on service, and the spirit of service, itself.
After Trump attacked the Khan family in an interview with ABC News, he also compared his personal losses to the loss of their son, claiming that he has made sacrifices as well.
Of course, all of Trump s five children are alive and well and none have served in military combat.In her letter, Meredith also addresses this point: Our men and women in the military make sacrifices every day.
Our military families make sacrifices every day.
Donald Trump hasn t sacrificed anything close to that.
Building buildings is a job.
He didn t lose anything.
Even when he went bankrupt he didn t lose anything.
All he did is lose other people s money.
She also points out the lack of strong condemnation from Republican Party leaders like Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan: If they are not willing to stand up to him right now, when he attacks our fallen and Gold Star Families, are they ever going to be willing to stand up to him?
When will Paul Ryan stand up to him?
When will Mitch McConnell stand up to him?
When will Reince Priebus stand up to him?
If not now when?
By comparison, Hillary Clinton has repeatedly praised the Khan family, including a statement that noted, Captain Khan and his family represent the best of America, and we salute them.
Featured image via YouTube