In what will surely send Donald Trump into a new Twitter tirade, a new poll from Public Policy Polling (PPP) shows the majority Americans longing to have President Obama back, and overwhelmingly not liking Trump.According to the poll: Less than 2 weeks into Donald Trump s tenure as President, 40% of voters already want to impeach him.
That s up from 35% of voters who wanted to impeach him a week ago.
Only 48% of voters say that they would be opposed to Trump s impeachment.Beyond a significant percentage of voters already thinking that Trump should be removed from office, it hasn t taken long for voters to miss the good old days of Barack Obama 52% say they d rather Obama was President, to only 43% who are glad Trump is.
President Obama was loved by the United States, and for as many haters as there were, there were far more that loved and appreciated his true leadership and love of country over himself.
The same can t be said of Trump.Check out this tweet that garnered over 1.6 million likes:It's been the honor of my life to serve you.
You made me a better leader and a better man.
President Obama (@POTUS44) January 20, 2017And then this one:I won't stop; I'll be right there with you as a citizen, inspired by your voices of truth and justice, good humor, and love.
President Obama (@POTUS44) January 20, 2017The man isn t only loved, he s beloved.Trump, on the other hand, throws out mean revenge tweets like their going out of style.
And most of the responses to his tweets are condemning his actions.
To be blunt the man is not liked much at all.
Sure, he has he band of merry minions who would likely drink paint if Trump told them to, but he lost the popular vote by 3 million vote to Hillary Clinton.
And the only reason he is president is due to an archaic Electoral College that was devised to give power to slave owners who counted their slaves as 3/5 of a person, and help those in rural communities have a voice.
It s no longer needed and the nation doesn t want Trump nor his backhanded style of egomaniacal leadership.It seems, if given the opportunity, the United States would have President Obama back in a heartbeat.
If only that were possible.Featured Photo by Alex Wong, Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images