When a Donald Trump minion whined about Hillary Clinton referring to Trump supporters as a basket of deplorables Krystal Ball was there to destroy her with the truth.During a face-off between Ball and Scottie Nell Hughes on CNN on Saturday, Hughes threw a hissy fit because Hillary dared to slam Trump s racist hateful supporters and called her desperate.
The problem is that Trump s supporters are exactly what Hillary called them.
They are deplorable racists who have stooped to bottom of the barrel politics.
They have called for killing or imprisoning Hillary and have committed violence against black people at Trump rallies all while disparaging Latinos and calling President Obama a terrorist.And Krystal Ball had no sympathy for Hughes considering everything Trump supporters have said and done over the last year.
To be honest with you, the truth hurts.
I don t know that it s half of Trump supporters, but you can t deny the fact that you ve got the David Dukes of the world in his camp backing him strongly.
You can t deny the fact that if you go on white nationalist website Stormfront, they love their glorious leader Donald Trump.
You can t deny that when you go to his rallies you hear the N-word thrown around casually and Hillary Clinton referred to as the B-word.So, he has tapped into this very ugly stream in America I think it s frankly important to point out the kind of company you re keeping if you re going to back somebody like Donald Trump.
And Ball is right.
Trump s campaign is a sea full of racist bigots who hide under white sheets, think we should persecute Muslims, and think women should submit to the will of men.In fact, polling data backs up Hillary Clinton s remark.According to ThinkProgress, polls show that two-thirds of Trump s supporters think President Obama is a Muslim, which is not only Islamophobic, it s racist, too.Furthermore, 40 percent of Trump s supporters think black people are lazy and another 50 percent think black people are more violent than whites.
One-third of them think putting Japanese-Americans in internment camps was a good idea.
20 percent think Lincoln should not have freed the slaves and 30 percent of Trump s fans in South Carolina want to ban gay people from living in the United States.So when Hillary Clinton said that half of Trump s supporters are deplorable she was damn spot on.But Hughes continued to whine, and not only did she defend white supremacists, she oozed hypocrisy.
I don t agree with what Krystal said about those different groups, I think that it once again is just Hillary Clinton trying to divide.
She doesn t want to unify Would you like me to sit there and say that Hillary Clinton is accountable for cop killings?
Or for communism or anarchism or all of the crazy fringes that exist on the left right now?
Here s the video via YouTube:Except that Trump and his supporters already regularly accuse Hillary Clinton of being a communist and have repeatedly blamed her and President Obama for the deaths of police officers.
And unlike Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton has never called for the assassination of her political opponent.It should also be pointed out that in addition to Hillary slamming Trump s deplorable supporters, she did express empathy for Trump supporters who have legitimate concerns, people who feel the government has let them down, the economy let them down, nobody cares about them, those are people we have to understand and empathize with as well.
Featured Image: Screenshot