The reason why many conservatives support Donald Trump is because they literally think he will erase the last 60 years of American history.After the third and final debate on Wednesday night, Face The Nation host John Dickerson sat down with a group of Nevada voters at a restaurant and talked to them about the candidates.But when he talked to a woman named Barbara, you could the hypocrisy, ignorance, and bigotry in her eyes as she let her crazy flag fly for all to hear and see.Barbara told the CBS host that she is voting for Trump because she believes in morality and values.
Now, many of you probably laughed out loud when you read that because the last thing the Republican nominee represents is morality and values.
Trump s words about groping women, his nods and winks to white supremacists, the multiple sexual assault allegations against him, the tapes of him hitting on underage girls, and all of the nasty remarks he has made about just about every group in America completely disqualifies him from having any claim to being the moral candidate.And Barbara demonstrated that by openly revealing herself as an anti-gay bigot because she thinks Trump will take the nation back to a time when homosexuals were persecuted and women s reproductive rights were controlled exclusively by men, a time she claims the founding fathers approved of.
Based on what the country was based on, I think that the laws that Obama has passed, the way the country has I call it down turning.
Some of the other people are proud of it and happy for it.
I personally am against it, the homosexuals, the abortions.
All the stuff, I am against.
Dickerson then asked her a follow-up question for clarification.
When Donald Trump says Make American Great Again, is that what you hear?
That it s going to go back to before the time that you re now describing?
That s part of it, Barbara answered.Oh, and Barbara is, of course, a religious nut.
She needs prayer, Barbara said about Hillary Clinton.
The country always needs prayer.
Apparently, Barbara and Trump supporters like her think oppressing women and gay people is morally right in this country which makes it a complete travesty that her vote counts as much as a sane person s vote.Here s the video via YouTube.And Trump supporters wonder why everyone is mocking them.Featured Image: Screenshot