A little over 100 days into America s experiment in dystopian rule took a predictably sad turn: The Trump administration, apparently tired of allowing people to watch non-propaganda, have begun ordering government agencies to only allow Fox News to be played in government buildings.
Fox News, of course, has operated as little more than a full-time state news agency for the Trump administration.The Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER), operating within the FDA, was given this message after employees asked why all of their monitors had inexplicably been changed to Fox News:I wanted to let everyone know that the reason for the change from CNN to FOX.The reason for the change is that a decision from the current administration adminstrative officials has requested that all monitors, under our control, on the White Oak Campus, display FOX news.Sorry for the inconvenience, but I am unable to change any of the monitors to any other news source at this time.Reporter Julia Reinstein confirmed the email from a source within the research center.Someone at CBER sent me the email which told staff TVs had been switched to Fox News by order of the admin pic.twitter.com/rsCzpOtdpv Julia Reinstein (@juliareinstein) May 5, 2017Reinstein got a picture confirming that the TVs within an office filled with serious scientists and researchers trying to do their jobs really were streaming Fox News.Here's Fox News on the TVs at CBER, same day an email went out to staff saying it had been switched from CNN to Fox by order of Trump admin pic.twitter.com/uVPx8jekIk Julia Reinstein (@juliareinstein) May 5, 2017Fox News has weathered its own scandals recently by doubling, then tripling down on unwavering support of Donald Trump.
Its years of anti-Obama hysterics have given way to a Trump promotional operation that is breathtaking to watch.
The mental gymnastics the network pulls in order to defend Trump s (largely unsuccessful) first 100 days has become the stuff of legend, including what may be one of the most unintentionally hilarious tweets ever published.Jobless rate after first 3 months: Trump vs. Obama vs. Bush vs. Clinton.
pic.twitter.com/EUTEseJyTj Fox News (@FoxNews) April 29, 2017Unsurprisingly, all of this favorable coverage has pleased Trump, who is reportedly obsessed with what people are saying about him on cable news.
On the same day the White House ordered CBER to start playing Fox News, Trump took time out of his schedule to praise Fox News morning show Fox and Friends for its ratings.Congratulations to @foxandfriends on its unbelievable ratings hike.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 4, 2017We are actively monitoring other governmental agencies to see if similar orders emerge.
It seems highly unlikely that Trump would target just CBER with an order to watch Fox News.
We ll update when we have more.Featured image via Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images