Attorney General Jeff Sessions scandal is so explosive that on Thursday Congressional Republicans began breaking ranks to join Democrats in demanding that he recuse himself from overseeing an investigation into contacts between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.
Sessions testified under oath that he had not spoke to Russian officials while working on Trump s campaign, but that wasn t true.
Lying under oath is still against the law.
Sessions marks the seventh person with Trump s campaign/administration who has been caught in a scandal related to Russia.
To be sure, Sessions should not just recuse himself.
He should resign.Still yet, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) defended Sessions because of course, he did.
What we are seeing is a lot of political theater, Cruz, the man who held a reading of Green Eggs And Ham and shut down the government, said Thursday on MSNBC s Morning Joe.
Everyone is in high dudgeon about the meeting, Cruz said.
The underlying meeting is a nothing burger.
It s what senators do every day.
Meeting with foreign ambassadors, that s part of the job.
Sessions lied under oath about his meetings with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak.Even House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) called on Sessions to recuse himself.AG Sessions should clarify his testimony and recuse himself Jason Chaffetz (@jasoninthehouse) March 2, 2017 I think everyone is getting all worked up because it s a chance to beat up the attorney general and to beat up the president, the Texas Senator said.
But I think the underlying meeting is he is doing his job.
It is not part of an Attorney General s job to lie under oath.Cruz said that Sessions could been more clear during his confirmation hearing, but said that the Attorney General is a man of integrity, a man of candor.
In contrast, Democrats such as Elizabeth Warren and House Minority leader Nancy Pelosi are calling for Sessions to resign.And we need Attorney General Jeff Sessions who should have never been confirmed in the first place to resign.
We need it now.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) March 2, 2017When Sessions was a Senator in 1999, he described the perjury claims against President Bill Clinton as serious allegations.
In America, the Supreme Court and the American people believe no one is above the law, he said at the time.
Sessions went on to vote guilty on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice during Bill Clinton s impeachment trial.Image via screen capture