Now that Donald Trump is the presumptive GOP nominee, it s time to remember all those other candidates who tried so hard to beat him in the race to the White House.
After all, how can we forget all the missteps, gaffes, weirdness, and sheer idiocies of such candidates as Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio, John Kasich, Ted Cruz, Ben Carson, and Carly Fiorina?There s a video making the rounds on Twitter that does just that, and eulogizes three of these failed candidates as though they re dead (and the GOP itself might as well be dead at this point anyway).
Appropriately titled, A Eulogy for the GOP, people make short speeches about each of these candidates.Once past the man who actually says Jeb Bush was qualified to be president, there are fake tears, with journalist and comedienne Francesca Fiorentini saying: Dearly beloved, we re gathered here today to commemorate the candidates that are no longer with us.
One man, speaking to an amusing, circus-y rendition of Chopin s Funeral March, remembers Jeb this way: Jeb, we hardly knew ye.
It s too bad that your policies couldn t find their way out of the Republican morass.
Indeed, it was like Jeb and his policies were invisible sometimes, although many felt that he would win the nomination early on.
His best performances often came during debates, when he d get into out-and-out fights with Donald Trump over virtually everything under the sun.
He also had a bad habit of defending his brother s actions in Iraq, memorably saying, As it relates to my brother, there s one thing I know for sure: He kept us safe.
Moving on to Marco Rubio, Fiorentini herself says: He was called so many things: Young, charming, Lil Marco.'
That last nickname is, of course, a reference to Trump s penchant for name-calling.
Then, a man speaking Spanish remembers Rubio this way: Marco, why aren t you a normal boy?
Another said that his involvement in the Gang of Eight immigration bill killed him as a candidate, to which Fiorentini replies: Some people die of gang violence.
He died of Gang of Eight violence.
The makers of this video saved the absolute best for last, of course, which is Ben Carson.
On our dear Dr. Carson, one of the speakers says: He would gently rock me to sleep with his monotone voice.
Carson was especially well known for seemingly being asleep half the time.
If we saw his eyes open wide, it was surprising, and likely because he was surprised himself.
His voice is soft, his speech is slow, and it really can be hard to stay awake while he s talking.
Imagine him giving a State of the Union address!To see the whole video, especially the spectacular ending after Carson s eulogy, watch below:Take a moment to say your g byes to these GOP candidates.
?
https://t.co/6O70bl9zV8 AJ+ (@ajplus) May 7, 2016 Featured image via screen capture from embedded video