These last several weeks, the American people have gotten a taste of what they d be getting with a Clinton or a Trump presidency.
And, not surprisingly, they overwhelmingly prefer a Clinton presidency.According to a new poll released from Bloomberg, Hillary Clinton crushes right-wing blowhard Donald Trump by a whopping 12 points, 49-37 percent.Not only does the poll show Clinton with a commanding lead, 55 percent of respondents said they could never vote for Donald Trump.
Astoundingly, 63 percent of women polled said they could never vote for him.
Republicans need to figure out their next move quickly, because there is no way in hell their candidate can win if more than half of the country refuses to vote for him.
Seeing that the poll was conducted when the shooting in Florida happened, Trump, hoping to cash in on a wave of fear, has a rude awakening.And the new poll shows Trump s biggest area of support, white men, may not be enough:For his part, Trump is winning 50 percent support from white men, compared to 33 percent for Clinton and 13 percent for Johnson.
He s getting 54 percent support among evangelical Christians, while Clinton gets 36 percent from that group.White men are among Trump s strongest demographics.
But even there he s not showing as much strength as the party s last nominee, Mitt Romney, who beat Obama in 2012 by 62 percent to 35 percent among white men, according to exit pollsLibertarian candidate Gary Johnson takes a commanding 9 percent of the vote, while 4 percent remain unsure and 1 percent said they will not be voting.
It s no secret that Johnson s lead can be attributed to Trump s alienation of non-crazy Republicans.Ann Selzer, who oversaw the poll, said: Clinton has a number of advantages in this poll, in addition to her lead.
Her supporters are more enthusiastic than Trump s and more voters overall see her becoming a more appealing candidate than say that for Trump.
And what s even better: Americans aren t buying into Trump s racism and bigotry:Trump s suggestions that Obama hasn t taken forceful enough action to stop domestic terrorism because he sides with Muslims landed with a thud for the majority of Americans, with 61 percent disagreeing with the suggestion.
A strong majority 69 percent also disagree that law enforcement agencies should increase surveillance of all American Muslims, even if it conflicts with civil liberties.While Trump is only slightly favored to handle issues of terrorism and violence, Clinton isn t far behind.
And as the nation continues to be exposed to Trump s extremist policies on how to handle such situations, Clinton s numbers could rise.Trump is in trouble, and Republicans know it.
If he keeps this up, he may very well end up being the next Barry Goldwater.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images