Donald Trump took quite a bit of heat following the racist shooting in Kansas City that resulted in the deaths of two Indian engineers.
The perpetrator shouted what sounded like Trump-inspired racial slurs like get out of my country, before killing Srinivas Kuchibholta, who died and Alok Madasani, who was injured.
Trump took almost a week to address the shooting at all.
There was also a spate of vandalism toward Jewish cemeteries and for most of a week, crickets from Trump.Trump did finally talk about the shooting and the vandalism in his address to Congress on Tuesday, but many say it was too little too late.
After all, Trump doesn t hesitate in calling out Muslim terrorists.
He and his people even make up terrorist attacks.In an interview with CNN s Alisyn Camerota, Trump surrogate Anthony Scaramucci said that the only reason Trump didn t address the Kansas City shooting and the string of vandalism in Jewish cemeteries, was that it would cause more fear and civil unrest.
He s not constantly condemning [hate crimes by white people], Camerota pointed out.
There was silence after Kansas City.
He didn t tweet about it.
Some people felt if had it been a Muslim, had it been a Middle Eastern gunman instead of a white gunman, he would have immediately condemned it.
The president is controlling the bully pulpit and the news cycle, and he doesn t want to overly discuss the stuff because you re worried that in itself will cause a fire, he replied.
You re trying to strike the right balance.
You can agree with me or disagree with me.
I do believe the president has consistently, and maybe not with the level of volume you d like, but he has consistently and his administration has consistently denounced these acts of violence.
Source: Raw StoryHere s the video:Let s see if you can follow that logic and I ll be frank, I m having trouble with it.
Trump s anti-Muslim rhetoric, which has always flowed freely whenever he speaks or tweets, is a huge recruiting tool for ISIS.
Apparently, he doesn t care that he is causing unrest and fear toward Muslims and by Muslims.Hate crimes since the election have been up and hate groups are on the rise.
The horse has left the barn as far as Trump inspiring hate, but he does have the bully pulpit.
If he can influence hate, he can certainly influence people not to act on their hatred.
He won t, though.
As more and more sane people turn against him, Trump is left with a base that looks a lot like Hitler s Brownshirts.
He doesn t want to offend his biggest supporters.Featured image via video screen capture