Ben Carson was (very) briefly the Republican frontrunner for President of the United States and now he s getting demoted by Donald Trump s campaign for being too big a liability.
The campaign which once tweeted a picture of Trump eating a taco bowl with the caption I love Hispanics thinks Carson makes them look bad.And sadly, they re probably right.Ben Carson has managed to step on every rake in the yard in his bumbling attempt to help Trump get elected president.
He s confided to reporters (on the record) that Trump might make a terrible president, but at least we re only looking at four years.
How bad has Carson been for Trump?
Dubbing him the worst surrogate ever CBS News Emily Schultheis pegged Carson early on:A campaign surrogate s job is to travel across the country and go on TV, saying nice things about the candidate and helping boost his or her chances at the presidency.What a campaign surrogate is not, however, supposed to do, is suggest their candidate is a bad person, admit he has a Twitter problem and an issue with humility, defend that candidate by suggesting a TV anchor has been charged with a crime, and reassure skeptics that, even if your candidate is a terrible president, it s only for four years.So when Carson made headlines yet again for screwing up this time naming a list of potential vice presidents Trump was considering including Alaskan campaign death knell Sarah Palin Carson was removed from the vice presidential planning group.
Or as Carson s spin team meekly put it, he asked to be removed because he had many more super important jobs to do.That lie was exposed in less than a week.
The real story is that Trump kicked Carson to the curb because Carson had absolutely no idea what he was doing.Three sources close to the Trump campaign said Carson didn t leave on his own.
He was pushed.According to sources close to Trump s campaign, Carson was demoted after Trump specifically wanted him to head up the VP selection team.
He submitted names that he thought would be valuable picks and inevitably lost his top spot days later.
Carson allegedly called Trump afterwards and was angry that the situation played out like this.At this point, it s hard not to feel bad for Carson.
Having seen the highs of being a front-runner, Carson got smoked in Iowa thanks to a vicious lie spread by Ted Cruz.
Later he would be pulled into a literal closet to hear Ted Cruz tell him sorry not sorry.
Only to finally give up and throw his lot in with Trump a man who once called him a pathological liar barely above a child molester.
Now that same man is firing him and only because Carson s mouth almost never bothers communicating with his brain before saying things like He has some major defects, there s no question about it, just like the rest of us.
But before we let Carson s sadsack routine tug on our heartstrings, let s remember that this is a man who ran for president on the premise that the Egyptian pyramids were grain silos only to give up and throw his weight behind a man he seems to have nothing but contempt for just to cling a bit longer to the political spotlight.
Carson s right about one thing, he does have major defects.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images