I was a die-hard Cruz supporter.
I trusted him.
I believed in him and I donated to his campaign.
Today I am ashamed at the people I stood side by side with in the battle to take back our country from the Left, who seem hell-bent on not only allowing the Socialist Left to control the narrative, but actually aiding them in the process.
The turning point for me was not the lack of endorsement for Trump at the RNC, but the time that Trump fans were viciously attacked in Chicago just for supporting a candidate they believed in.
Cruz blamed Trump for the violence his supporters were victims of that night.
At that moment, I knew I could no longer support a man who put his own candidacy before the support of thousands of Americans who are entitled by the very Constitution Cruz so vehemently defends, to their right to freedom of speech and to freedom of assembly.
On March 3, 2016 Senator Ted Cruz told the FOX News debate audience he would support Donald Trump if he was the Republican nominee.Bret Baier: Senator Cruz will you support Donald Trump if he is the nominee?Senator Ted Cruz: Yes, because I gave my word I would.
And what I have endeavored to do every day in the senate is do what I said I would do.Here s what Cruz actually did when he was invited to speak at the RNC convention and was given the opportunity to endorse Trump :Here s how the crowd at the RNC reacted over Ted s NON-endorsement of Trump:Ted Cruz fails to endorse Donald Trump; crowd boos as he walks off stage.pic.twitter.com/Fr28ZRg0JX Breaking911 (@Breaking911) July 21, 2016Today, die-hard Cruz supporters are paying for ads in swing state to help Hillary win:Regina Thomson and Ted Cruz.Thomson, a Cruz supporter, led the Free the Delegates campaign against Trump to steal delegates from the record-setting Republican nominee.Now disgruntled Cruz supporters are running campaign ads against Donald Trump in swing states.
Via: GPPolitico reported:Anti-Trump Republicans are preparing to launch a broadcast TV ad in a handful of swing-state suburbs urging Donald Trump to quit the presidential race so the party can replace him with a more electable nominee.The ad, titled Keep Your Word, features footage of Trump during the Republican primary in which he suggested he d drop out if he saw his poll numbers decline ..The 30-second spot is marked for a limited run on broadcast networks in suburban Florida, Virginia, Ohio and Michigan, according to Regina Thomson, a Colorado Republican activist and leader of Free the Delegates, the organization that failed to stop Trump s nomination at last month s national convention.
All four states are central to Trump s path to the White House, though he s trailing in most polls of those states.