The Obama administration has been playing loose and free with our national security.
It s been revealed over the years that several of the Obama cabinet members have been keeping e-mail accounts that were not secure and were non-government.
One of the common themes in the usage of a second e-mail account was to use your dog s name as the account name.
In the case of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton it was reckless abandon and wide open access:The New York Post fills in the blanks on Hillary:US intelligence officials so far have determined that at least four and as many as 305 of the more than 30,000 emails Clinton and her aides have printed out and turned over to investigators were classified at the time they were written.They include a 2011 message from Clinton s top aides that contains military intelligence from United States Africa Command gleaned from satellite images of troop movements in Libya, along with the travel and protection plans for Ambassador Christopher Stevens, who was later killed in a terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya.
Another staff email sent to Clinton in 2012 contained investigative data about Benghazi terrorist suspects wanted by the FBI.
IT S HARD TO IMAGINE THAT IN HER POSITION SHE WOULD FAIL TO RECOGNIZE THE OBVIOUS.
retired Army Col. Larry Mrozinski Both emails were classified TS/SI Top Secret/Special Intelligence and required the nation s highest security clearance to read.
SI is a control system within the supersecret designation known as Sensitive Compartmented Information.
SCI intelligence, which if leaked can cause grave harm to national security, is tightly controlled and usually kept in hard-copy form in bound books numbered and stored in highly secure read rooms known as SCIFs at department headquarters in Foggy Bottom.
Before entering, cleared officials are required to place cellphones, BlackBerrys, iPads, laptops and other electronic devices on a shelf outside the monitored facilities.
TS/SCI material is transported between SCIFs in locked bags carried by special couriers.LISA JACKSON AND LOIS LERNER USING E-MAIL ACCOUNT NAMED AFTER THEIR DOGSIn 2012 it was revealed that Obama administration officials used pseudonym email accounts to hide their communications.
EPA head Lisa Jackson became embroiled in a scandal when it was discovered that she subverted FOIA concerns by using an account under the name Richard Windsor , a name attributed to her dog.Later, as the EPA scandal evolved, Lisa Jackson quit her position.
Now, it appears that IRS official Lois Lerner was doing the exact same thing.
Using the email name Toby Miles to hide her in house, and ex parte, communication.
The IRS plot thickens:FOX News Reports on Lerner:The IRS admitted to a federal court there was a second personal email account that Lois Lerner, the official at the heart of the Tea Party targeting scandal, used to conduct agency business.The email account apparently was set up under the name, Toby Miles, which sources tell Fox News is the name of Lerner s dog.The admission, first reported by The Washington Times, was made Monday in an open-records lawsuit filed by Judicial Watch, a conservative group suing to see Lerner s emails sent during the targeting of conservative groups filing for tax-exempt status.IRS lawyer Geoffrey Klimas told the court that as it was putting together a set of documents to hand over to Judicial Watch, attorneys discovered another email account, in addition to her official account and a separate personal email already known to the agency.
In the process of preparing this status report and for the August 24, 2015, release of Lerner communications, the undersigned attorneys learned that, in addition to emails to or from an email account denominated Lois G. Lerner or Lois Home, some emails responsive to Judicial Watch s request may have been sent to or received from a personal email account denominated Toby Miles, Klimas told U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan.Two sources told Fox News that Toby Miles is the name of Lerner s dog.CAROLINE KENNEDY OUR AMBASSADOR TO JAPAN:Caroline Kennedy, the U.S. ambassador to Japan, used a personal email to conduct official business as former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton did according to a new State Department report.Many State Department staff used their private accounts to both send and receive these emails, the State Department s inspector general found in an investigation of Kennedy s embassy in Tokyo.
Senior embassy staff, including the ambassador, used personal email accounts to send and receive messages containing official business, investigators wrote in the report, released Tuesday.
In addition, (investigators) identified instances where emails labeled sensitive but unclassified were sent from, or received by, personal email accounts.
Via: cnn