SHOCKING FACT: One-fifth of the entire population of El Salvador currently resides in America, according to the Migration Policy Institute.
Oh and Trump s a racist for wanting to build a wall <sarcasm>!An illegal alien from El Salvador, Mauricio Morales-Caceres, faces life in prison without parole after being convicted of stabbing acquaintance Oscar Navarro, father of two, at least 89 times with a 15-inch butcher knife and tearing out his liver with his bare hands but no comments on this shocking murder by a foreign national, who smiled cheerfully in his mugshot, are allowed, according to the Washington Post.Illegal alien Morales-Caceres, 24, started by stabbing Navarro in the back before stabbing him in the face, then his head, and then his chest, according to prosecutors.Standing before an image of the extremely gruesome murder scene, prosecutor Douglas Wink said Morales-Caceres sawed through his victim s body to tear out his liver and place it on his chest.
The defendant took the knife and sawed, he said.
This man reached in with his bare hands and took out his liver.
He probably thought it was his heart.
He ripped out his liver and left it on his chest for the police to see.
The Washington Post buried the fact that Morales-Caceresis is an illegal alien.Nelson Navarro, Oscar s brother, said he has turned his attention to Oscar s 12-year-old son and 8-year-old daughter.
They know their dad was killed, but so far the family had been able to spare them details of how he died.
During the trial, they came to the courthouse on one day but stayed in the prosecutor s offices.
Their mother watched the trial in the courtroom.They also shut down the comments section, explaining: We turn off the comments on stories dealing with personal loss, tragedies or other sensitive topics.
The murder took place in December 2014.
Should Morales-Caceres ever get out of prison, every indication is that he would be deported to his native El Salvador, The Washington Post reports in an aside.
Prosecutors earlier said he entered the United States illegally.
And since his stay at the Montgomery County jail, immigration officials have lodged a detainer on him, an indication they would move to have him deported at the end of a prison sentence.
If El Salvador decides they won t take Morales-Caceres back, should he ever be released, the U.S. would likely turn him loose onto American streets thanks to the overreaching Supreme Court ruling, Zadvydas v. Davis (2001).
As the Center for Immigration Studies writes:In order to eliminate what it considered the constitutional threat of the potentially indefinite detention of deportable aliens, the Court held that once removal is no longer reasonably foreseeable, continued detention is no longer authorized by statute.
The Court then arbitrarily decided that six months was all that was necessary for determining an alien s deportability Put simply, a reviewing court s definition of reasonably foreseeable now determines the release of deportable aliens back onto the streets.So, should Morales-Caceres be freed from prison before his life sentence concludes and El Salvador refuses to welcome him back, it s only six months until he s free to haunt American neighborhoods once more.