The big question in all this corruption is why these people aren t in jail!
The collusion between Cheryl Mills and Hillary Clinton had to be there.
Is there anyone out there who REALLY believes that Clinton isn t culpable in all this?
This entire thing is sickening!Remember the Accountability Review Board, appointed in the wake of the Benghazi attack that killed four Americans in September 2012?
The ARB, headed by former ambassador Thomas Pickering, provided the first attempt at oversight over the State Department s actions in Benghazi and Libya following the sacking of the American consulate.
Pickering s probe didn t bother to interview State officials of higher rank, such as Hillary Clinton, and tried to lay the responsibility on low-level staffers instead.According to the new majority report from the House Select Committee on Benghazi, that may not have been a coincidence.
The report accuses longtime Hillary aide Cheryl Mills of undue influence over the ARB, from the composition of the committee to access to information and witnesses, Politico reports:Cheryl Mills, the longtime attorney, friend and former chief of staff for Hillary Clinton, influenced the findings of an internal State Department review of the 2012 Benghazi terrorist attack, according to a draft of the final House Benghazi Committee report.A section of the report obtained by POLITICO says the so-called Accountability Review Board did not act independently, as it was supposed to do, and was consistently influenced by Mills.
Mills, the report says, helped select members of the panel, gave at least one other State Department official permission to talk to the reviewers, oversaw the production of some documents reviewed by the board and helped edit the final report.
The decisions to deviate from longstanding processes raise questions about the board s independence, thoroughness and therefore the fullness of their findings of accountability, the report reads.
Recall Pickering s response to Bob Schieffer three years ago, when asked about the ARB s decision to skip interviewing higher-ranking officials, and his attempts to let Kennedy off the hook.
We knew where the responsibility rested, he insisted.
I wonder who made that clear to him?
Hmmm: