Donald Trump has finally been convinced that President Obama was indeed born on U.S. soil, or at least that s what he said during a press conference on Friday.
What he didn t say was that he was sorry for being a champion of the birther movement from the very beginning.
Not only did he fail to apologize, he also told an outright lie, claiming that it was Hillary Clinton who first started the rumors of this racist conspiracy theory.On Friday afternoon, the Congressional Black Caucus held a press conference of their own and stomped all over Trump s decision not to apologize.
The CBC slammed Trump for living a life of bigotry and denounced the GOP nominee as a two-bit racial arsonist and a disgusting fraud.
Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-SC) said that Trump has gone way past the racial dog whistling that has been a plague upon American politics for years and is all out howling.
One of the things that we are all used to in this business is dog whistles, he said.
But the thing that we re not used to are the howls of wolves.
These are howls, these are not whistles.
These are in-your-face kinds of efforts on the part of one man in order to heap indignities on the President of the United States.
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) had even harsher criticisms, accusing Trump of living a life of bigotry.
He has lived a life of bigotry, she said.
If you view America as a land of value and equality and justice, this man cannot be elected.
We as African Americans have had enough.
He has debased this election, but more importantly, he has disgraced himself in his lack of respect for the President of the United States of America.
Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) condemned Trump for the never ending stream of lies that come out of his anus-shaped mouth.
This is not the first time he has lied he continues to lie, Meeks fumed.
He s lied and he s divided this country enough.
He lied about Muslims, saying he saw thousands of them [celebrating] when the World Trade Center went down.
He s lied about Mexicans, he s lied about women, and members of the Congressional Black Caucus are not going to take it anymore.
Rep. G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) denounced the Republican nominee nothing more than a disgusting fraud, and Rep. Hakeem Jefferies (D-NY) called Trump out as a two-bit racial arsonist.
Watch the Congressional Black Caucus press conference, here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EOJS6VtSCTs]Featured image via video screen capture