A former IT aide suspected of stealing equipment and data from Congress still has an active, secret email account on the House computer system, even though he has been banned from the congressional network because of a criminal investigation into the alleged cybersecurity violations, The Daily Caller News Foundation Investigative Group has learned.Imran Awan s still-active email address is linked to the name of a House staffer who specializes in intelligence and homeland security matters for Indiana Democratic Rep. Andr Carson.
Court documents and emails obtained by TheDCNF show Awan used the address 123@mail.house.gov in addition to his standard imran.awan@mail.house.gov account.He and two of his Pakistani-born brothers, as well as his wife, are at the center of an FBI investigation over their IT work with dozens of Democratic congressional offices.
Authorities shut down Awan s standard email account Feb. 2, and he was arrested by the FBI at Dulles International Airport trying to board a flight to his native Pakistan on July 25.Authorities apparently did not realize Awan has a second account that is not linked to his identity.
While his main email address began rejecting mail after it was shut down, the 123 address was still accepting mail Tuesday.Mail sent via Gmail fills in the name of the account-holder of 123 as Nathan Bennett, whose LinkedIn profile says his individual legislative portfolio covers national security and foreign affairs and includes work on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.The member Bennett works for, Andre Carson is a member of both the House Intelligence and House Homeland Security Committees, and previously employed Awan.Carson is ranking member of the House intelligence subcommittee on emerging threats, which oversees the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
The subcommittee oversight extends to the National Counterterrorism Center and information-sharing programs.
For entire story: Daily Caller So who is US Rep. Andre Carson, and why should we be concerned about the Pakistani born Muslim IT Aide hired by the former DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman-Schultz?
Andre Carson is one of only two Muslims serving in Congress.
The other is Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., who became the first Muslim elected to Congress in 2006.
Andre Carson has openly stated that American schools should be modeled after Islamic Madrassas.
America will never tap into educational innovation and ingenuity without looking at the model that we have in our madrassas, in our schools, where innovation is encouraged, where the foundation is the Quran.
And that model that we are pushing in some of our schools meets the multiple needs of students.
Watch at the 6:25 mark:Shoebat- The next time the American people are told by a U.S. member of Congress that they can t know something because it is classified or still under investigation , they should point their collective finger directly at one man Andre Carson.
The reason is that Carson is not just one of the only two Muslim members of Congress; he is now a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), appointed by House Minority leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA).If ever there was a committee that has been able to hide behind the claim that it can t answer a question because that answer would reveal classified information, HPSCI is such a committee.The problem isn t solely that Carson is a Muslim.
It s also that he s accepted contributions from the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) and is tied to other Muslim Brotherhood front groups.
CAIR was an unindicted co-conspirator in the Holy Land Foundation (HLF) trial, which actually represents an additional problem.
That problem is that it reveals another extremely fundamental flaw in the Bill Clinton strategy of treating acts of terrorism as criminal acts instead of as acts of war.