Freelancers love entitled people, really we do, especially when those entitled people are also rich.
Giving away our services to those who can easily pay market rates for them is just so much better than, you know, getting paid in actual dollars that we can turn around and use to pay our bills.
And Tiffany Trump and her mother, Trump s second wife Marla Maples, just put themselves into the category of rich, entitled jagoffs who think people owe them work for free.They re both going to Trump s inauguration on Friday, and of course, they have to look absolutely perfect.
That means getting their hair and makeup done by stylists and artists.
Tricia Kelly, a freelance stylist, received word from a contact with connections to the Trumps that Tiffany and Marla were looking for someone to do this work for them.
So she got in touch, gave them her rates for both work and travel, and Marla wasn t having it:But Maples, through her assistant, balked.
I was told they had a $300 budget for both of them for hair and makeup, Kelly says.How the hell do those two only have a $300 budget?
A regular person with a decent-paying job has a $300 budget for this (maybe).
Maples reportedly has a net worth of $20 million.
Tiffany has a reported net worth of just $600,000, but she s also 22 and she s also Maples daughter.
And they only have a budget of $300 for this?Please, don t make us laugh too hard.
It hurts.Kelly managed to negotiate a total cost of $350, which is still absurdly cheap.
But that s apparently when things got really ridiculous.
After Kelly got Maples assistant to agree to that rate, she then asked if Kelly would be willing to do the work for exposure.
It s not even exposure in the form of a tear sheet she could put in a portfolio, or something else tangible.No this exposure would be in the form of Maples mentioning her on social media.Jesus fucking Christ but these people are spoiled rotten brats.
And when Kelly wouldn t do it, she got veiled threats in return: You are messing with the president of the United States, the Maples contact wrote her, adding that Maples was worried about her financial situation with Tiffany out of college, ending child-support payments from the president-elect.
She is used to a certain lifestyle and you don t understand that.
So?
She s still worth $20 million, so she can shut it.
And even if one could say there was a legitimate worry about money now, well, like the rest of us, if she can t afford a pricey service, then she can jolly well do without.
She is not entitled to people s work without compensation any more than any of the rest of us are.Sure, there are stylists, artists and designers who are willing to loan things to, or do complimentary work for, A-list celebrities because that is exposure that will translate into more paying work and better rates and prices.
Sorry to say, though, that Marla and Tiffany are not exactly A-listers here.
And they are associated with politics, which people working in these fields tend to shun unless they re getting paid.Kelly was shocked by the entitlement complex, as any of us would have been in her shoes: There are people who make far less than they do who pay full price, she said.
People on staff the incoming White House and the outgoing one pay full price.
It seemed like they were trying to see how much they could get for free based on their names.
The market rates for these services run anywhere from $1,200 to over $5,000.
So even the $350 that Maples assistant said they would pay was a pittance.Seriously?
Give us a break.
In other words, she and Tiffany are just as used to getting what they want from us peons as Cheetolini and the rest of his family.
And if they want you to work for free, then dammit, you will work for free or you will face the consequences, and that is that.Featured image by Kevin Winter via Getty Images