NBC Entertainment chairman Bob Greenblatt took to his Facebook account to rip demented Donald Trump, calling him pompous and toxic, then took a shot at the ratings of Celebrity Apprentice.
That post has since been deleted but Marlow Stern of The Daily Beast took a screen shot.
The sad state of affairs thanks to a pompous businessman turned reality-TV star (whose show consistently ran LAST in its time period, by the way) who thinks speaking his mind is refreshing, Greenblatt wrote.
It s actually corrosive and toxic because his mind is so demented; and his effect will unfortunately linger long after he s been told to get off the stage.
The Donald often brags about the ratings for The Apprentice, just like he bragged about polls until recently when all national polls showed his campaign spiraling downward.
Apparently, his ratings were nothing to brag about either.The Daily Beast reports:Greenblatt s Facebook post was a personal response to a recent New York Times op-ed penned by Nicholas Kristof that shows how all across America Donald Trump is mainstreaming hate.
The column touches on bullying in schools, and recounts a moment during a high-school physics class in Forest Grove, Oregon, in which a group of white students suddenly began jeering at their Latino classmates and chanting: Build a wall!
Build a wall!'
(Greenblatt, who is the first openly gay broadcast TV chairman, has long been active in pro-LGBT advocacy, as well as in anti-bullying efforts.
)In 2015, Donald tweeted, People don t understand that I left The Apprentice to run for Pres the Apprentice DID NOT leave me.
Bob Greenblatt & folks @NBC were GREAT!
Donald has claimed many times that The Apprentice was the number one show on television.
As television critic Tim Goodman put it at the time, Nobody spins like Trump.
Nobody.
It s just bloviation.
Bloviation is a good word for Donald s presidential run, too.
Bloviate is to talk at length, especially in an inflated or empty way.
That s him alright.The GOP presidential candidate is going to be a sad panda today after reading Greenblatt s opinion of him.Featured image via screen capture.