Something is definitely incredibly suspicious with recently looked at video of former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani knowing about something coming out against Hillary Clinton exactly two days before it happened.Giuliani seemed pretty damn sure of himself while appearing on Fox News on October 26, that there was going to be something released.
Giuliani said with a grin a mile wide: I think he s got a surprise or two that you re gonna hear about in the next few days.
Then only two days later, FBI Director James Comey came out with his letter to Congress declaring his vague information regarding emails and Hillary Clinton.Keep in mind one very important fact, Giuliani is Comey s old boss, and it sure as hell seems like the former NYC mayor was given some information before anyone else.Not only would this definitely prove the Hatch Act was violated, Giuliani would be part of the violation.According to CNN: Congress passed the Hatch Act in response to concerns that federal employees had been used to support candidates during the 1938 congressional elections.
Its general intent is to greatly restrict the ability of most federal employees to engage in political campaign activities (such as soliciting campaign donations or actively working on behalf of individual candidates), especially while on the job or to otherwise use [their] official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with or affecting the result of an election.
Giuliani is one of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump s top surrogates on the campaign trail, and he seemed to know about something that would directly be harmful to Trump s opponent days before it was released.
He clearly knew something.What did he know?
And how did he get that information?
Is this proof Comey violated the Hatch Act?Watch Don Lemon and Michael Moore discuss how Giuliani seemed to know about the letter before anyone else, as well as the former mayor admit to knowing something:Here it is.
Watch this & tell me Giuliani didn t know.
Did u know Rudy used to be FBI Director Comey s BOSS?
https://t.co/UP3y963SsR Michael Moore (@MMFlint) November 4, 2016Featured image via video screen capture