For decades, it seemed, when the nation imagined a president, they imagined Martin Sheen.
It s no wonder.
He was once cast as John F. Kennedy, he starred in The American President and he spent seven years as the cerebral President Jeb Bartlett in The West Wing.In real life, Sheen has never served in office, but he is a political activist, he s a Clinton supporter and he has strong and brutal opinions about Donald Trump.Sheen was interviewed about Trump in the Hollywood Reporter.
When asked about Trump, Sheen said:Oh, Don Trump.
He makes me laugh, in that nobody seems to get it yet.That he s an empty headed moron.
That he has absolutely nothing to offer us.
That he s done his bidding and he has to be responsible for the damage he s already done.
Empty Headed Moron is perhaps the best description of Trump ever.
It paints him as a man who doesn t deserve to be taken seriously, yet somehow is.The Hollywood Reporter countered that Trump is just a private citizen that he can t have yet done damage.Oh, come on.
There s nothing private about this guy.
Don Trump has been around for a very long time.
He s a very self-centered promoter.
I think that says it.He also called the billionaire scary.
Asked about Clinton, he said he was a supporter and all the talk of Benghazi and emails doesn t faze him at all:She has some common sense.
I m not saying she s mistake-free.
Who is?
I mean, she s a human being.
She s been in public life for 30 years.
She s made a few mistakes.
Is anybody talking about George Bush and the 30,000 emails he destroyed about the weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and all of that nonsense, and how Great Britain came in, and all the other allies knowing full well that it was bogus?
So, please, if you want to talk about how much her mistakes have cost us, none in human lives and please don t mention Benghazi.
That s a lot of crap.
She was not controlling that situation.
It was a military situation.
And that s run by the Pentagon or the CIA or both.
She s under orders.He also called Benghazi terrorism.
Plain and simple.
Terrorism.
Sadly, the interview was done before Trump appeared to summon his supporters to assassinate Clinton.
It s not hard to imagine that Sheen would have had even stronger words than moron and dangerous.
Featured image via Andrew Burton at Getty Images.