Do you hear that sound?
That sizzling and popping?
That s the beautiful melody of the heads of conservatives across the nation exploding in the wake of some very, very bad news (for them) delivered by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in California.
In a precedent-setting decision, the San Fransisco-based court ruled Thursday that gun owners do not have a constitutional right to conceal carry their weapons if they face no specific threat.The court determined that San Diego and Yolo counties did not violate the Second Amendment when they denied some applicants concealed carry licenses.
In those counties, applicants must show good cause to be armed at all times.
In other words, a woman who is being stalked by her ex-boyfriend or someone in a dangerous profession can carry their guns around because they have a legitimate need for protection.
Someone who just feels like taking his gun to the grocery store, however, might want to think twice before he tucks it in his waistband.
In a 52-page opinion, Judge William Fletcher wrote: Because the Second Amendment does not protect in any degree the right to carry concealed firearms in public, any prohibition or restriction a state may choose to impose on concealed carry including the requirement of good cause, however defined is necessary allowed by the Amendment, the 9th Circuit said.Reuters notes that this ruling isn t exactly unusual:The ruling places the 9th Circuit Court in line with other U.S. appellate courts that have upheld the right of officials in the states of New York, Maryland and New Jersey to deny concealed carry applications in certain cases.Under California s concealed carry law, more than 70,000 residents or less than 1 percent of the state s population had active permits last year, according to the Center for Investigative Reporting.The U.S. Supreme Court in 2013, in the middle of a raging national debate on guns, declined to weigh in on whether firearm owners have a constitutional right to carry their weapons in concealment outside the home.This is also in line with the Supreme Court s 1897 finding that the right of the people to bear arms is not infringed by laws prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons.
This decision reversed a 2014, 2-1 decision by a 9th Circuit Court panel that found California residents have an inherent right to carry concealed weapons.
While this issue may seem settled, these gun owners promise to keep fighting for the right to carry their confidence around with them everywhere they roam though they may be in for a bit of a surprise, as the Supreme Court could refuse to hear the case because other circuit courts have upheld limitations on the issuance of concealed carry permits.Featured image via ToBeRight.com