It s still more than three weeks before the incoming Trump administration is set to take office, but one member of his staff has already been forced to resign over an alleged sex scandal.Just two days after being chosen as Trump s Communication Director, Jason Miller changed his mind about the job after it was revealed that he might be a philanderer.
His excuse, of course, is that he wants to spend more time with his family.The scandal broke, perhaps ironically and perhaps not at all, because another Trump staffer tweeted hints at an affair.
The New York Daily News got screenshots of Trump senior advisor, A.J.
Delgado s Twitter account, before the Twitter account was deleted.The first tweet congratulated Miller and then, but then it got weird.
Congratulations to the baby-daddy on being named WH Comms Director!
she wrote in one now-deleted tweet.
The 2016 version of John Edwards, she wrote in another, referring to the disgraced ex-Democratic senator who fathered a child with his mistress.
It s clear they need to be my top priority right now, and this is not the time to start a new job as demanding as White House communications director, said Miller, whose wife is expecting their second child.Source: NY Daily NewsHere s the video:To be fair, a good old fashioned sex scandal seems absolutely wholesome compared to some of Trump s behavior.
Not only is Trump an admitted adulterer and an accused sex offender, he s blatantly thumbing his nose at the Constitution with his conflicts of interest and with campaign improprieties.This clearly also points to the fact that Trump is not doing his due diligence when it comes to picking his staff.
The President Elect hasn t been vetted, which is frightening on its own, but Congress can t do much about that fact.
They can, however, put up a real fuss, if they so desire, about skeletons in the closets of Trump s nominees.
The fact that this came down over the Christmas holiday, when few people are paying attention, shows how embarrassing this is to the incoming administration.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images.