Polls have shown for awhile that Donald Trump has a solid lead among white voters without a college education.
What about those with a college education?
That group tends to vote Republican in presidential elections, but it looks like Trump will lose that group of voters for the GOP for the first time in 60 years.This is huge, because it means he s not polling as well with white voters as he thinks he is.
In fact, he could lose the white vote as well as every minority vote and the women s vote this year.
So he might be able to keep it sort of semi-close, depending on what happens with the white vote, but His Royal Narcissism won t understand that.Since May, our wannabe Fascist-In-Chief has trailed by about six percentage points with this group, and has trailed an average of five points with the general electorate.
It seems that his xenophobic policy proposals, along with his insistence that sexism and racism are just political correctness run amok and not actual problems, just don t sit well with people who are educated enough to know how to think for themselves.
Education is King Donnie s number one enemy.Romney won this same group by six points in 2012.
Romney also held solid leads in states that Trump is putting into play for the first time in years, if not decades.
Much to the GOP s dismay, Hillary Clinton is actually competitive in states such as Georgia, Arizona, Utah and Kansas.
Romney won these states by an average of 21.5 points.
While we can easily expect Utah not to favor His Royal Dishonesty as much as Romney, they could actually turn blue this year because they can t stand Trump.Hillary is polling much better with this group than the Dunce-in-Chief, even though overall, they re fairly close together.
It seems that the wannabe President-who-would-be-King may have to rely heavily on circumstances beyond his control to gain ground in the opinion polls again, like Obama losing popularity, an economic crisis, or Hillary getting scandalized due to another witch-hunt.That s a sucky position to be in, although our not-so-broken hearts only bleed pink carbonated peanut butter for him over this.
For now, Hillary s growing popularity among white, educated voters could easily give her the presidency.Featured image by Jeff Swensen/Getty Images