Donald Trump s Second Amendment threat just took a more frightening turn.National outrage ensued after the Republican nominee suggested on Tuesday that gun owners do something to stop Hillary Clinton from nominating judges to the Supreme Court.
If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks, Trump said.
Although the Second Amendment people maybe there is, I don t know.
This statement prompted the Secret Service to take the unprecedented step of responding to an assassination threat by a presidential candidate against an opposing candidate, whom the Secret Service is charged with protecting and would be in the line of fire should a right-wing gun nut answer Trump s dog whistle.And it appears that at least one gun nut is interpreting Trump s dog whistle call as a call for armed insurrection if Hillary Clinton becomes president and doesn t pick who they want her to pick as a Supreme Court Justice.Greg from Michigan called into C-SPAN on Wednesday morning and while he denied that Trump was calling for Hillary to be shot and killed he frighteningly declared that Trump was actually calling for a bloody armed revolt if conservatives don t get their way.
Number one, Mr. Trump was not threatening assassination of Hillary.
But what he was implying and could happen is if Hillary got her way and did do away with Second Amendment rights, there are a lot of us who are gun owners who are going to object to that very strongly.
And since we do have firearms, it might if it comes down to it be us having to defend our rights with those guns, just as the revolutionaries did in the Revolutionary War.
Here s the video via C-SPAN:Trump s rhetoric just took a scary turn and his supporters are taking him seriously.
Republicans have talked about Second Amendment remedies before but American voters have been consistent in rejecting candidates who spew such rhetoric.
The idea of using guns to force your political agenda on the country is a threat to our democracy and has no place in this country.
It s time for voters to once again reject this rhetoric by defeating Trump by a landslide.
Republicans need to learn once and for all that threats of gun violence is not a political strategy and is a sure way to lose elections.Featured Image: YouTube