The credibility of Beverly Young Nelson, the woman who accused Roy Moore of making sexual advances toward her when she was a teen, has been shattered.
Shortly after Nelson appeared on television with leftist attorney Gloria Allred, her stepson made the difficult decision of coming out and saying that his stepmother was lying in a Facebook video he made to set the record straight about his father s wife.Watch video:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.11'; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));My official statementPosted by Darrel Nelson on Tuesday, November 14, 2017Meanwhile, Twitter user Thomas Wictor made his case through a series of tweets that the alleged Roy Moore signature in a high school yearbook Nelson used as evidence of her story was forged.
Conservative media outlets began to demand that the yearbook was examined by a neutral party.
Nelson and her attorney, Gloria Allred refused.
Nelson remained silent for weeks while the controversy about the allegedly forged high school yearbook continued to catch fire in the media.Breitbart News reports that Beverly Young Nelson has finally admitted that she forged a portion of the infamous high school yearbook that she and attorney Gloria Allred used as proof of her accusations against U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore.And in yet another blow to the credibility of ABC News, the disgraced, left-wing network downplayed the bombshell by presenting this admission of forgery as adding notes to the inscription.
Worse still, the reporter actually coaches Nelson, puts words in her mouth, downplay the enormous significance of her deceit.Beverly Young Nelson, one of the women accusing GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore of sexual misconduct, tells @GMA it sickens her to think what might happen if Moore is elected.
https://t.co/wuEGWr0kng pic.twitter.com/lcp5OY4x3A ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) December 8, 2017 Nelson admits she did make notes to the inscription, ABC News tells us.
But the message was all Roy Moore.
ABC News reporter Tom Llamas just couldn t help himself, as he coaches Nelson to make sure she is still able to cling to a portion of her story:Llamas: Beverly, he signed your yearbook.
Nelson: He did sign it.
Llamas, for his part encouraged her to get her story straight: And you made some notes underneath.
Nelson replied: Yes.
And then, after a woman admits to forging a document used in a campaign to destroy the Republican nominee for the U.S. Senate in Alabama, ABC News quickly moves on as though it is not news of extraordinary consequence.Llamas also fails to ask any follow-ups, such as If the explanation is this simple, why wait all these weeks to offer it?
Or, Why did you lie?
Nelson is accusing Moore of attempting to assault her when she was just 16-years-old.
With the election just four days away, this admission of forgery could not come at a better time for Moore.
Nelson and Allred are planning a news conference Friday, but nothing will overcome the forgery admission.How can anyone believe anything she says after admitting to such a thing?
Early reports are that Nelson and Allred will produce an expert to prove the rest of the yearbook is not a forgery.
So a proven forger is bringing in her own expert.
What an insult to the people of Alabama.Another problem with Nelson is that she has a motive to lie and forge: as a circuit judge, Moore ruled against her in a 1999 divorce case.The Moore campaign has been pressuring Nelson and Allred for weeks to submit the yearbook for independent handwriting analysis.
Now everyone knows why that request was rejected and ignored.With Nelson now thoroughly discredited, this leaves two accusers against Moore.One is Leigh Corfman, who claims Moore molested her as a 14-year-old child.
She is the most credible of the three, but the narrative behind her story, that Moore s abuse resulted in Corfman s living a troubled life of drinking, drugs, boyfriends, and a suicide attempt, is directly contradicted by contemporaneous court records.Moore s final accuser is Tina Johnson, a woman who claims Moore groped her butt in his office in 1991.
But, again, as was the case with Corfman and Nelson, the left-wing media outlets reporting these allegations (the Washington Post, AL.com) either failed to fully vet the accusers or withheld crucial context.Thanks to New Media s going behind these discredited outlets to fact check the reporting, we now know that Johnson did not tell the entire truth.
She was not in Moore s office on business.
If she was in Moore s office at all, it was due to a bitter custody battle where Moore represented Johnson s mother, who was trying to gain custody of Johnson s 12-year-old son based on the claim that Johnson was an unfit, absent, and unstable mother.
If the media and the accusers and Gloria Allred told the full truth to begin with, they would all be more credible.Here are close up versions of the signatures.
Note, that when viewed close up, the signature is signed in both black and blue ink.Here is a closer version of the yearbook signature:Here is Wictor s explanation for the different colors of ink:(4) The LIGHT is reflecting off of the ink.The ink that LOOKS blue is actually black.
It's DIFFERENT ink than the ORIGINAL ink.Therefore it reflects light differently.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) November 16, 2017(11) So, to recap:The signature is a forgery, and everything after the name "Roy-Ray" was added later with different ink.
pic.twitter.com/1sPv6aABge Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) November 15, 2017Just like the "TH" doomed Dan Rather, "DA" will doom the anti Roy Moore forces.
They copied his signature on Nelsons divorce order not realizing "DA" was his assistants initials, not his title.
The sheer stupidity!
pic.twitter.com/oWJ5fzM6fr TruthHurts (@tru768) November 15, 2017After the yearbook signature came into question, Moore s attorney came out with a statement regarding the signature in the high school yearbook.
Here s what he had to say:Roy Moore's Attorney: "[Nelson & Gloria Allred] said that Ms. Nelson after the allegations had never seen or had any contact with Judge Moore In 1999, Ms. Nelson filed a divorce action The judge assigned was Roy S.
Moore."
pic.twitter.com/Bv5ZV0CMvc Fox News (@FoxNews) November 15, 2017