Liz Warren flips She just told Jake Tapper in an interview that the Dem Primary was rigged.
We all knew this it s pretty huge for her to say it DONNA BRAZILE ALSO SPILLED THE BEANS WITH HER NEW BOOK: After months of lying about passing debate questions to Hillary before the presidential debate that was hosted by her employer, CNN, the former DNC Chair Donna Brazile, finally came clean.
During an interview with Trevor Noah of the Daily Show, Brazile arrogantly excused her dishonest behavior by telling Noah: Well, first of all, I didn t have my hands in the cookie jar.
I m an operative, I m a strategist, and part of what my role was, in addition to being a political pundit, was to help advance the cause of justice and equality Today s a new day, however, and Donna Brazile has decided to emerge from the shadows to promote her new bombshell, tell-all book that is sure to ruffle a few feathers in the Democrat Party Her book is about the chaos at the DNC during the 2016 campaign.
On Thursday, she revealed a section of it at Politico.
What emerges from the excerpt is a picture of Brazile as a heroine (of course), Hillary Clinton as the villainess, Debbie Wasserman Schultz as incompetent and lazy, and Barack Obama as the unnamed cancer that ate away at the center of the party.Ouch.In Brazile s book, she claims that Obama cleaned out the Party.
Brazile writes that by the time she took over, the Democratic Party was broke and $2 million in debt.
According to Brazile, Obama left the party $24 million in debt hey, sort of like the country!
and his campaign wouldn t pay off that debt until election year.
Furthermore, Wasserman Schultz had grown staff and allowed the DNC to pick up the check for Obama consultants.Brazile also claims that Hillary ran the Party.
Hillary used that debt to pick up power they pledged to fill in the funding gap for the DNC so long as they got to run operations.
Gary Gensler, CFO of the Hillary campaign, apparently described the party as fully under the control of Hillary s campaign, which seemed to confirm the suspicions of the Bernie camp.
The campaign had the DNC on life support, giving it money every month to meet its basic expenses, while the campaign was using the party as a fund-raising clearinghouse.
Hillary Essentially Laundered Campaign Money Through The DNC.
Hillary raised an enormous amount of money for the DNC, but virtually all that money went to Hillary s campaign.
Less than half of 1 percent of all money Hillary raised from her fundraisers went to the states.
Brazile explains:When the Politico story described this arrangement as essentially money laundering for the Clinton campaign, Hillary s people were outraged at being accused of doing something shady.
Bernie s people were angry for their own reasons, saying this was part of a calculated strategy to throw the nomination to Hillary.The party ran as an adjunct to the Hillary campaign long before the primaries, meaning that Bernie was at a severe disadvantage.
Brazile admits as much:The funding arrangement with HFA and the victory fund agreement was not illegal, but it sure looked unethical.
If the fight had been fair, one campaign would not have control of the party before the voters had decided which one they wanted to lead.For entire story: Daily Wire