Fox News never disappoints when it operates more like a derange reality TV show than a news network.
On Monday, a Mornings with Maria segment went off the rails when Trump supporter and reality TV star Omarosa Manigault flipped out on left-leaning Fox contributor Tamara Holder and targeted her big boobs leaving even host Maria Bartiromo in shock and trying to maintain control.This special moment was prefaced with a discussion about Trump s recent criticism of George W. Bush s performance regarding the 9/11 terror attacks and Iraq war.
When Holder commented that she wished the Republican front-runner would talk more about Black Lives Matter or improving inner cities instead of trying to politicize the 9/11 attacks, former Apprentice star Manigault forgot where she was and brought the drama full force to live television.In arguing that the topic should stay on Trump s criticism of the Iraq war, Manigault s blind rage got the best of her and she focused on Holder s breast size as things got heated.
You can watch what happened below:Holder had just corrected Manigault s pronunciation of her first name when the disgruntled ex-TV personality shot back: It s the same difference, boo.
You want to come on with big boobs, then you deal with the pronunciation of your name.
Bartiromo, almost in a state of shock, interrupted and asked, Wait a second, why are you bringing up Tamara s boobs?
Manigault explained, Because she started going back talking about, Oh, you were a Democrat and you supported Hillary Clinton.
If you want to get personal, we can get personal.
Holder struggled to understand Manigault s reasoning and asked, Wait, how does who you support have to do with the size of my boobs?
Considering that this is how I was born.
I mean, I m sorry.
Manigault refused to ease up and said, I m sorry, I should have called you a boob.
Can we talk about Donald Trump?
I mean, what else can you expect from a Trump supporter?
It s been proven throughout Trump s campaign that his loyal fans are just as sexist, racist and all-around offensive and he is in short, they love him because he IS them.
Trump has a long history of making sexist, misogynistic comments about women and Manigault simply embodied those values in this segment.As much of a train wreck as this was, Bartiromo wasn t all that embarrassed that this happened on her show, because she retweeted an article about the inappropriate segment soon after it was published.Featured image is a screenshot via Raw Story