When Khizr Khan took the stage at the DNC to give a heartfelt speech about the very real sacrifice his Muslim son made in Iraq, and to call out Trump on his anti-Muslim hatred as the height of insult against people like Capt.
Khan, many probably expected the GOP to hop on board and repudiate Trump.
After all, insulting those who fight to keep us safe from terrorism is just sick and wrong.It seems now that we ll all be waiting a long time to hear them do that.
House Speaker Paul Ryan, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have indeed issued statements against Trump, but they re so weak and watery that they re meaningless, empty gestures.McConnell said: Captain Khan was an American hero, and like all Americans I m grateful for the sacrifices that selfless young men like Capt.
Khan and their families have made in the war on terror.
All Americans should value the patriotic service of the patriots who volunteer to selflessly defend us in the armed services.
And as I have long made clear, I agree with the Khans and families across the country that a travel ban of all members of a religion is simply contrary to American values.
Some of that is word-salady enough to make us tilt our heads and think, Say what?
Ultimately, though, McConnell got what he deserved from the Twitterverse.
They see right through the meaninglessness of this statement, particularly because it s paired with the GOP s continuing endorsement of Trump.
Paul Ryan s statement wasn t much better.
He said: America s greatness is built on the principles of liberty and preserved by the men and women who wear the uniform to defend it.
As I have said on numerous occasions, a religious test for entering our country is not reflective of these fundamental values.
I reject it.
Many Muslim Americans have served valiantly in our military, and made the ultimate sacrifice.
Captain Khan was one such brave example.
His sacrifice and that of Khizr and Ghazala Khan should always be honored.
Period.
His statement is clearer, but no less empty than McConnell s. Twitter saw right through him, too.
Given that Trump has since insulted both Khizr and his wife publicly, instead of apologizing to a grieving family for his cold-hearted fuckery, it s more important than ever for the GOP to publicly reject him.
In fact, Khizr has pleaded with them to do just that.
They won t, though.
These statements make that clear.The only way for Republicans to prove that Trump doesn t speak for them on this issue is to directly and bluntly reject him, since he obviously doesn t represent American values.
They should have done this months ago, and they didn t because they re impotent.
Now they re stuck supporting Trump, which makes them the party of all the hate Trump spews forth from his black and shriveled soul.Image of Paul Ryan by Joe Raedle/Getty Images.
Image of Mitch McConnell by Drew Angerer/Getty Images.
Images merged by Rika Christensen