Donald Trump has been called out by yet another foreign leader for his ridiculous plan to build the Great Wall of Murica.
During a Facebook Live interview by The New York Times en Espa ol, Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales, a former television comedian, openly mocked the Republican s wall.Trump rose to the top in the Republican primary race by promising his supporters that he was going to erect a huge wall to keep Latino immigrants out of the country.
Although he has said that he is going to force Mexico (hahaha) to pay for this monstrosity, he has also promised that he is going to have it built really inexpensively.
In order to do that, he is going to need the cheap labor he rails against in all of his speeches, and that is what President Morales offered him: To the gentleman who wants to build a wall, I offer cheap labor.
We have high quality labor, and we ll gladly build.
Tell us the dimensions, and we know how to do it.
The president could hardly keep a straight face when he offered to help the gentleman.
But he quickly turned serious when he started discussing real immigration policy with the reporter, saying: We believe although I have no reason to involve myself in U.S. migratory policy we believe that it is necessary to think about migratory reform where many people who are there in an irregular manner will be regularized, he said.
Morales added that legalizing undocumented immigrants in the United States would benefit the country because they would contribute more and pay more taxes.
He is absolutely right, it would greatly benefit America if we would reform immigration.
We have millions of undocumented immigrants living in this country who are contributing to society, but would love to contribute even more unfortunately, they are unable to do so unless they are legalized.Republicans like Donald Trump do not consider that, though, not because they believe it is false, but because it is easier to keep their voting base energized if they have someone to hate.
Right-wing, poorly educated voters need a scapegoat to blame all of their problems on and immigrants are perfect for that.
Meanwhile, the GOP continues to fan the flames to keep their dumbass base in a constant state fear which sends them back to the polls to vote for the right s candidates.
It doesn t matter how much the GOP is victimizing their voters by cutting funding for many of the programs that keep food on their tables, as long as they have others to pick on, they are happy.So, Trump will continue to push this Great Wall of Murica fantasy, his supporters will lap up his rhetoric and world leaders will continue to point their fingers and laugh at us.
This is another reason why it is so important to vote BLUE in November.Watch the interview below (be warned, it s in Spanish):Featured image via video screenshot