It has been reported that embattled former Fox News CEO Roger Ailes passed away this morning at his home in Palm Beach, Florida.
The news was confirmed in a statement given to Drudge Report by his wife, Elizabeth Ailes.
Elizabeth Ailes statement on her husband s passing.Roger Ailes was born on May 15th, 1940 in Warren, Ohio.
He attended Ohio University and graduated with a bachelor s degree in radio and television.
His long career in television began in 1962 as a production assistant for The Mike Douglas Show, a local talk show.
In 1967, Richard Nixon appeared on the program, and Ailes argued with him about the political importance of television.
That lead Nixon to hire Ailes to produce television for his campaign.
After getting his foot in the door with Nixon, Ailes worked on two other presidential campaigns and helped Rudy Giuliani get elected mayor of New York City.
He went on to become the president of CNBC in 1993, before being hired as CEO of Fox News in 1996.
Ailes unique style of management and fearless approach to controversy have completely changed conservative broadcasting.Ailes was forced out of Fox News after allegations of sexual harassment came to light by some of the network s most popular and high-profile talent.A 2016 lawsuit by Gretchen Carlson alleges that Ailes retaliated against her for speaking out about his sexist treatment, denying her promotions and stalling her advancement.Megyn Kelly backed up Carlson s version of events, and went public with details of her own sexual harassment by Ailes when she was a young reporter.Lorie Luhn, who booked guests for the network, told of over 20 years of abuse.
According her statements to New York Magazine, one time Ailes put her in charge of finding young talent for the network and told her, You re going to find me Roger s Angels.
You re going to find me whores.
Andrea Tantaros was demoted and taken off of the air for refusing to hug Ailes.RNC field consultant Kelly Boyle was told by Ailes, You know if you want to play with the big boys, you have to lay with the big boys.
Rudi Bakhtiar was fired by Fox after refusing to wear mini-skirts that Ailes sent her after a job interview in which he made her stand and show off her legs.Shelley Ross published an article in The Daily Beast where she detailed harassment and abuse she endured from Ailes, including suggestions that they form a sexual alliance in order for Ross to prove her loyalty.On the set of The Mike Douglas Show, model Marsha Callahan says she was told by Ailes that he could help her advance her career if she put on a garter belt and stockings, then lifted her skirt to show Ailes.Photo by Stephen Lovekin via Getty Images.