It s no secret that Senator John McCain hates Ted Cruz.
Although he has tried to hide it by repeatedly calling the Republican presidential candidate a friend, it s hard to look past the time he called him a wacko bird.
He has also been very vocal about his disdain for Cruz s government shutdown tactics and in 2015 he said that he basically disagrees with the candidate s entire platform.
With all of this in mind, it was really no surprise when McCain added his opinion to the Ted Cruz citizenship controversy.By now, you have probably all heard about Donald Trump questioning whether or not Ted Cruz was qualified to be president because he was born in Canada.
The Constitution says that only a natural-born citizen can sit behind the desk in the Oval Office, and the GOP front-runner implied that he didn t know if Cruz was a legal candidate.During an interview on Wednesday on Phoenix radio station 550 KFYI s Chris Merill Show, John McCain said he didn t know if Ted Cruz was eligible to be president because he was born in Canada: I know that came up in my race because I was born in Panama, but I was born in the Canal Zone which is a territory.
Barry Goldwater was born in Arizona when it was territory when he ran in 1964.
.Asked if the Supreme Court might have to weigh in on the natural born citizen issue, McCain said, It may be, that may be the case.
It is likely that John McCain doesn t really question whether or not Cruz is eligible to be president; instead it seems as though he was trolling the senator a little bit.
But if he does actually question his right to run, he may be trying to get the party to disqualify the Tea Party maniac.Although McCain has made some pretty stupid political decisions in the past (cough..Sarah Palin cough), he is basically a moderate Republican and not as loony as the Teabillies who have hijacked his party.
That means he knows that even though the Constitution does not specifically define natural born citizen, the consensus is that if a person is born to American parents, even in a foreign country, they are natural born.
What s really funny about this whole non-scandal is that we are seeing the Republican Party target their own candidate in the same way many attacked President Obama and he was actually born in the United States.Oh the irony Featured image via Salon