Donald Trump probably thought that running for president would be a huge boon for all his businesses.
However, it s starting to look as though that may not be anything like true.
Trump Hotels just announced that they re dropping Trump s name from all their new hotels.
His name will stay on existing hotels, but new ones will carry the name Scion.
According to Travel and Leisure, the company insists that this move is an attempt to reach Millennials, and has nothing to do with how Trump may have damaged his own brand.
They re ignoring the fact that Trump s newest hotel, built inside the historic Post Office building in D.C., actually had to reduce prices to fill rooms during the peak season.But worse than that they had to drop prices below $500 per night to try and get people in for the International Monetary Fund conference two weeks ago.Every other luxury hotel in that same area sold out weeks ahead of time for that conference, while Trump International struggled to attract guests.
As New York Magazine put it: For a five-star hotel in downtown Washington to have vacancies during major IMF meetings is a little like having empty rooms when the Super Bowl is in town.
The reason why there were vacancies is the political atmosphere.
People don t want to go there for fear that they would be asked, Why are you staying here?
says Ada Pena, a travel agent with ABA Travel in Washington, D.C.
In addition to that, reservations throughout the company have plunged by well over 50 percent, too, showing that Trump s absurd campaign is destroying his name.
A destroyed name means a destroyed brand he s not nearly the wonderful, amazing, brilliant person and businessman he believes himself to be.It s so bad that, on Oct. 7, Mark Cuban tweeted that Bernard Madoff had a better brand than Trump.
For those that don t know, Madoff was behind one of the biggest Ponzi schemes this country ever saw, and is now behind bars.
That s how toxic Cuban believes Trump has become to his own businesses.Every single @realDonaldTrump hotel and golf course is toast.
Done.
Over.
Bernie Madoff now has a better brand.
Mark Cuban (@mcuban) October 8, 2016Trump s bragging about being able to sexually assault women definitely doesn t help.
Yet, Trump Hotels refuses to acknowledge that their namesake is a source of their problems.
They re as delusional as Trump himself over what s happening.Businessman brilliant enough to get the U.S. back on track?
Ha!
We think not.Featured image by Brian Blanco via Getty Images