Since taking the oath of office, alleged president Donald Trump s approval rating is at a new low, hitting 37%, according to Gallup.
Trump s disapproval rating is at jaw-dropping 58 percent.
As for his approval rating, the polling company may need to start a new graph because it looks like its bottom line is 35 percent.This is the lowest approval rating of any president s first 60 days as tracked by Gallup.Trump approval drops to 37% the worst Gallup poll any president has ever had this early in their term.
pic.twitter.com/399k8tLFmx Steven Dennis (@StevenTDennis) March 19, 2017Gallup- Job *disapproval* upon hitting 60 days in office:Carter 9Reagan 24HW Bush 16Clinton 34W Bush 29Obama 26Trump 58 Josh Jordan (@NumbersMuncher) March 19, 2017Gallup- Job approval upon hitting 60 days in office:Carter 75Reagan 60HW Bush 56Clinton 53W Bush 58Obama 63Trump 37 Josh Jordan (@NumbersMuncher) March 19, 2017Trump is 9 points away from hitting absolute bottom of approval ratings.
(There are 28% on both sides that are always unmovable) In 60 days!
Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) March 19, 2017It s not just Gallup.
According to a new Quinnipiac University poll released earlier this month, 51% of voters are against efforts to repeal Obamacare.That poll highlights the scandals plaguing Trump and his administration.
52 percent say that Trump s Attorney General Jeff Sessions lied under oath during his confirmation hearings and 51 percent say that Sessions should resign.54 percent of voters disapprove of the way Trump is handling U.S. policy towards Russia, according to Quinnipiac.American voters support 66 30 percent an independent commission investigating potential links between some of Donald Trump s campaign advisors and the Russian government.
The only listed party, gender, age or racial group opposed is Republicans, opposed 64 30 percent.A total of 61 percent are very concerned or somewhat concerned about President Trump s relationship with Russia.
A total of 62 percent of voters say alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election is a very important or somewhat important issue.Trump s scandals after just starting the job include his growing list of conflicts of interest.
The alleged president s swamp now has a Russian accent, with some in his administration revealed to have ties to the hostile foreign government.
And that some may include Trump himself.
On top of that, Trump has been pushing for a travel ban, while initially seeking to stop travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the U.S. That executive order was so chaotic that travelers were still in mid-flight when he signed it, then detained at airports.
His second attempt to ban Muslims failed in court after he watered it down to forbidding travelers from six countries from entering the U.S. And now Trump is pushing through a health care plan which gifts the rich with tax breaks and hits the elderly hard with pricier coverage.
Trump s first meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel was so awkward that it was obvious he cannot sit in a room with actual world leaders without embarrassing the rest of us.Meanwhile, Trump is on another vacay at his Mar-a-Lago resort while trying to take away healthcare from 24 million Americans.Photo by Tom Pennington/Getty Images