Donald Trump delivered a major f*ck you to his fellow conservatives when he spoke out against North Carolina s controversial and transphobic bathroom bill and said he would be perfectly fine with transgender people using whatever bathroom they wanted to.Trump made these surprising comments during Thursday s NBC Today town hall as host Willie Geist asked the Republican frontrunner questions from Twitter users.
Geist asked Trump, Mr. Trump, please be specific.
Tell us your views on LGBT, how you plan to be inclusive as president.
Speak about North Carolina bathroom law in particular.
Inclusivity is something Trump has completely strayed away from during his campaign, and he s managed to successfully insult and exclude nearly every minority possible.
But this time, Trump s answer surprised everyone.
Stating that North Carolina s bathroom law had caused a lot of problems, he said: North Carolina did something that was very strong, and they are paying a big price and there s a lot of problems.
North Carolina, what they are going through with all of the business that s leaving and the strife and that s on both sides.
Leave it the way it is.
There have been very few complaints the way it is.
People go, they use the bathroom that they feel is appropriate, there has been so little trouble.
This is one of the VERY few times that Trump is mostly right.
There have not only been few complaints there have actually been ZERO instances of sexual assaults or other issues when transgender individuals were allowed to use the restroom that corresponds to their gender identity.
Still, that was one of the main arguments that North Carolina Republicans were using to get this bathroom bill passed.When Geist asked Trump if he had employed transgender individuals at his company, Trump replied that he wasn t certain, but he probably had transgender people working for him.
Geist pressed him further: So if Caitlyn Jenner were to walk into Trump Tower and want to use the bathroom, you d be fine with her using any bathroom she chooses?
And Trump stuck it to the GOP one last time: That is correct.
Also speaking against the creation of new bathrooms specifically for transgender people, Trump said it would be too expensive, and that I think that would be discriminatory in a certain way.
You can watch the interview below:Trump has previously held more liberal views than conservative, and he loves to stir up controversy whenever he can.
One thing is for sure the GOP is NOT going to appreciate this.Featured image via Eduardo Munoz Alvarez / Getty Images