Democratic party leaders from four states have officially filed federal lawsuits against Donald Trump and his advisor Roger Stone, as well as the state Republican parties for conspiring to threaten, intimidate, and thereby prevent minority voters in urban neighborhoods from voting in the 2016 election.
The lawsuits, which have been filed in Arizona, Nevada, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, were spearheaded by Marc Elias, who is the general counsel for Hillary Clinton s campaign.
The suits request a federal judge to step in and prevent the defendants from activities such as monitoring polls and verbally harassing voters.The suit against Trump, Stone, and the Nevada Republican Party, which was filed by the Nevada Democratic Party, quotes an unnamed Trump official who said, [w]e have three major voter suppression operations under way.
This, says the suit, is proof of their intentions.The complaint also says: Trump s supporters have responded with pledges to descend upon polling places in certain areas where many minority voters live in order to interfere with their efforts to exercise the franchise Immediate relief is necessary.
There are only 8 days left until Election Day, and early in-person voting in Nevada is well underway.
Trump s calls for unlawful intimidation have grown louder and louder, and the conspiracy to harass and threaten voters on Election Day has already resulted in numerous acts that threaten to interfere with the voting rights of registered Nevada voters.
Stop the Steal, a super PAC formed by Stone, is also named in the suit.
According to the lawsuits, Stone has a history of engaging in voter intimidation, racist and misogynist hate speech, and incitement to violence.
The complaint further states that Trump has repeatedly spread misinformation about voter fraud by claiming that the election is rigged against him.
An example of this is October 20 when Trump told a crowd gathered at a rally in Delaware, Ohio that Clinton is truly capable of anything, including voter fraud.
The lawsuit also states that Trump, Stone, and the local Republican parties have blatantly violated both the Voting Rights Act and the Klu Klux Klan Act.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images