Watch History in the making!
@VP breaks the TIE to confirm Betsy DeVos as Sec of Education!
#MAGApic.twitter.com/HoN6mfoFYc CC (@ChristiChat) February 7, 2017DeVos is a polarizing figure in education circles because of her strong support for school choice and charter schools.
Some critics have said advocates like her push school choice with little regard for the quality of options parents have.Giving families the opportunity to make education related decisions on behalf of their own children is apparently a scary proposition for the radical teacher s unions.
Fox News Trish Regan had this to say about Democrats opposition to Betsy DeVos:Dems opposing #DeVos BIGTIME.
School choice threatens unions by giving students & families ability to demand accountability.
Imagine that.
Trish Regan (@trish_regan) February 7, 2017She and other advocates believe strongly that parents should be able to decide where their kids go to school, and that kids shouldn t be trapped in failing schools.
But critics say choice advocates ignore the need for quality options, say charters have siphoned money away from traditional public schools and point to data that show charter schools aren t performing any better, and in some cases are performing worse, than their counterparts.In 2000, DeVos and her husband, Dick, led a failed petition drive to institute a voucher system in Michigan that would allow parents to use public money to send their children to private schools.
The state constitution prohibits such use of public funds.Voters overwhelmingly rejected the proposal.
But a similar plan is the centerpiece of Trump s education plan.
He wants to spend $20 billion in federal funding now being spent on other things and expects states to kick in even more to provide to pay $12,000 in private school tuition for every high-poverty child in the country.
Detroit Free PressCrybaby Democrat and comedian/US Senator Al Franken was NOT happy about DeVos confirmation.
Taking control of our lives and the lives of our children has never been popular in Democrat Party circles:A shame that GOP voted to confirm one of their major donors instead of looking out for our children.
Full statement: https://t.co/7ibYt0SqAc Sen. Al Franken (@SenFranken) February 7, 2017