Trump loves to brag about his foundation while simultaneously ripping the Clinton foundation, because he s Donald Trump and Donald Trump has the best of everything.
Except the Trump Foundation never went and got the certification the State of New York requires for non-profit organizations to solicit money from donors.
That could actually shut the foundation down.Any charity that s based in New York, and solicits more than $25,000 per year, must get special registration, and must also submit to strict and severe annual audits.
These audits that ask whether the organization spent any money on behalf of its officers, which is something Trump does with abandon.Trump is already in trouble for using funds from the foundation to pay off more than $250,000 in personal lawsuits.
He also used foundation money to advertise his hotels, and to buy portraits of himself.
This is known as self-dealing, and it is illegal.
But legalities are just details to Trump.
They don t matter as long as he gets what he wants.The Trump Foundation is also in trouble with the IRS, which fined the Trump Foundation $2,500 for donating to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi s re-election campaign at the same time she was considering investigating the scam known as Trump University.
Whatever he says, he was trying to buy her off and we all know it.In other words, the foundation is in water that s so hot it ll reach its boiling point soon.
Then what happens?
If New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman finds that the Trump Foundation illegally raised money, he can order them to stop doing so immediately.Schneiderman could also get a court to order the foundation to return the money it s raised.
That could potentially bankrupt it.Trump s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, said recently that the foundation s money is Trump s while she was trying to blow up Trump s amazing generosity.
When she was corrected, she said that the foundation s money comes from Trump.
It doesn t. Trump hasn t donated much to his own foundation since 2008.
The vast majority of the money far more than $25,000 per year comes from outside donors.And it s illegal.
Trump s sins are coming back to bite him just in time for November.Featured image by Ethan Miller/Getty Images