Donald Trump is crazy.
I don t say this flippantly.
I don t say this as an insult to people who have struggled with their mental health.
I also don t say this as a licensed mental health professional.
But as someone who has been around a lot of people with serious mental illnesses over the years, I do say that this man is f*cking nuts.
And apparently, I m not the only one who thinks this.
One Democratic lawmaker is taking action to get Trump some psychiatric care.Rep.
Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) is planning to introduce a bill as early as next week that would require an in-house White House psychiatrist.
His reasoning is clear, the man running our country is in desperate need of psychiatric help.
I m looking at it from the perspective of, if there are questions about the mental health of the president of the United States, what may be the best way to get the president treatment?
Lieu explained.This isn t the first time Lieu has let it be known that he is worried about Trump s mental health.
Over the weekend he sent out a tweet suggesting that Trump needs to undergo a psychiatric evaluation.Last 24 hrs on Twitter, @realDonaldTrump went on rant about death & destruction, FAKE NEWS, & evil.
Should he get mental health exam?
Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) February 4, 2017Lieu insists that Trump s behavior is not normal.
He also argues that Trump is clearly disconnected from reality.
It is not normal for the president of the United States, within 24 hours, to write about death and destruction and fake news and evil, he said.
The most troubling aspect of this is it is very clear he has a disconnection from the truth.
The very first press conference he had in this administration, they could have talked about jobs or health care.
They talked about crowd size.
And then lied about it.
It s one of the most bizarre events I ve witnessed in politics.
His disconnection from the truth is incredibly disturbing.
When you add on top of that his stifling of dissent, his attacks on the free press and his attacks on the legitimacy of judiciary, that then takes us down the road toward authoritarianism.
That s why I ve concluded he is a danger to the republic, Lieu argued.Not surprisingly, Lieu isn t the only lawmaker who is a little worried about the fact that our commander-in-chief is bat-shit crazy.
Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who chairs the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) have both publicly questioned Trump s mental health.Read more: Featured image via Andrew Harrer Pool/Getty Images