Donald Trump just selected a racist homophobe as the nation s leading law enforcement officer.Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions is a lifetime bigot who viciously joined his Republican colleagues in opposing President Obama at every turn.
So naturally, he supported Trump s campaign and become one of his top cheerleaders who didn t care if Trump committed sexual assault or discriminated against black people.Now Sessions is reportedly Trump s top pick for Attorney General, which would likely set back civil rights for years to come.
Oh, and Sessions is just fine with the KKK.According to the New York Times,While serving as a United States prosecutor in Alabama, Mr.
Sessions was nominated in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan for a federal judgeship.
But his nomination was rejected by the Republican-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee because of racially charged comments and actions.
At that time, he was one of two judicial nominees whose selections were halted by the panel in nearly 50 years.In testimony before the committee, former colleagues said that Mr.
Sessions had referred to the N.A.A.C.P., the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and other civil rights groups as un-American and Communist-inspired.
An African-American federal prosecutor then, Thomas H. Figures, said Mr.
Sessions had referred to him as boy and testified that Mr.
Sessions said the Ku Klux Klan was fine until I found out they smoked pot.
Mr.
Sessions dismissed that remark as a joke.Mr.
Sessions was also accused of speaking disparagingly of the Voting Rights Act and the stringent oversight it placed on Southern states.So we can expect Sessions to ignore civil rights laws as Attorney General since he will likely direct the Justice Department to turn a blind eye towards civil rights violations across the country, thus giving racists the opportunity to treat minorities however they please.
It s going to be a racist free-for-all.It also likely he will refuse to stand in the way of Republican efforts to suppress minority voters while fighting anti-discrimination laws tooth and nail.Make no mistake, Trump s Justice Department is going to be full of racists and Sessions will be the top racist in charge.Featured image via Wikimedia