The FBI has actually received a voter suppression complaint, but not against Hillary and the Democrats despite Trump s insistence that she s rigging the entire election.
No this complaint was filed against Trump himself, and targets his dangerous requests that his followers monitor polling places on Election Day.The complaint comes from the Democratic Coalition Against Trump, and a memo on the complaint specifically states: Over the weekend, the Democratic Coalition Against Trump filed complaints against Donald Trump with the United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division and with the FBI Public Corruption Unit for violations of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which guarantees the right to vote for all citizens.
The complaints were filed as a reaction to Donald Trump s call for his supporters to go out and watch the polls, which will prevent citizens from exercising their right to vote.
Trump has repeatedly called for his followers to act as poll watchers to ensure that no in-person voter fraud happens (which is almost non-existent).
One man even said that he was planning on engaging in racial profiling for the purpose of intimidating anyone who didn t look American (read: anyone who appeared to be Mexican or Syrian).
His hope seems to be to weed out people who aren t allowed to vote by making them nervous.Scott Dworkin, who wrote the memo, went on to copy the words of the DCAT s complaint, which not only went to the FBI, but also went to the Department of Justice: This complaint is against Donald Trump and his campaign for voter intimidation and suppression nationally.
Trump has encouraged his supporters to go over and watch polling places, the implication being to instill fear specifically to minority communities in the inner cities.By encouraging his supporters to go out and watch polling places, Donald Trump is violating the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Dworkin details out how violence at Trump s rallies could be enough to frighten minority voters away from polling places if they know the same violent, racist bigots will be lurking.
Nobody wants to try and cast a vote with someone who hates them standing over their shoulders.Dworkin also cites Section 11(b) of the Voting Rights Act, which states that nobody, regardless of their purpose, is allowed to try and threaten, intimidate, or coerce anybody trying to cast a ballot.
Trump s so-called poll watchers will do exactly that, which is what Dworkin is worried about.The FBI and DOJ know what Trump says at his rallies.
He s claimed that Hillary has undocumented immigrants coming in specifically to vote for her; he s claimed that polls should be carefully watched so nobody votes twice, and everyone attempting to vote is legally allowed to vote, and he screams repeatedly that the election will be rigged against him.So it s not like the DCAT is grasping at straws, trying to draw a picture that doesn t exist.
It does.
And Trump should be terrified of it.
Read the full complaint below:Dcat FBI Vra Memo by Grant Stern on Scribd If you witness or experience any type of voter suppression or intimidation when you go to vote, call this number: 1-866-OUR-VOTE.
Let Trump and his minions know that this kind of cheating will not be tolerated.Featured image by Mark Makela via Getty Images