When the right-wing terrorists took over the Malheur National Wildlife Preserve, the first thought many had was of the guy pointing his weapon at a BLM agent from between Jersey barriers when the Cliven Bundy incident happened.
When we learned that it was Bundy s own sons leading the charge to free a remote corner of Southeast Oregon from oppression, those fears were multiplied.Then something magical happened.
Within hours we learned that the occupation would be a gathering of nitwits the likes of John Ritzheimer who were too stupid to bring enough supplies to feed themselves for a camping trip, never mind a standoff that Ammon Bundy said would last years.We learned that the desperate plea for snacks was foolish not only because these were supposed to be those survivalists we all hear about being prepared for the zombie apocalypse but because the local authorities suggested they just go to the store since nobody was watching them.The frightening became stupid and then completely ludicrous.
Now what we have left is a group of armed idiots in a standoff with nobody occupying a taxpayer-funded retreat in a bird sanctuary, threatening to give the land back to the loggers.
It was never going to go over well.At least we can laugh.
If nothing else the Citizens for Constitutional Freedom have provided the internet with enough material for memes by the truckload, humor articles, op-eds and satire pieces for miles and enough YouTube parodies to last the winter if you re bored enough to watch them all.One of the most enjoyable reads you ll have during this debacle has to be Yelp, where reviewers have gone out of their way to make your tour of the preserve a memorable one.
From large Cheeto-begging mammals spotted on the trails to toothless creatures in need of our support and protection, yelpers have made the incredibly ridiculous world of the Bundy Moron Militia even more absurd and it is magnificent.Here are some images of the best Yelp has to offer.
Enjoy!
Toss in a few funny pictures for good measure and the humiliation of Ammon Bundy ands friends is just about complete: You can visit the comments HERE.
Yelp has been cleaning them as they come in, as their policy is to not take a political stance on anything, but new ones are popping up all the time.
Special thanks to Elizabeth Preston of Winning Democrats for these awesome screencaps!Featured image via Yelp