A United Nations employee was busted for robbing four Manhattan banks all during his lunch hour, authorities said.Only 3 weeks ago, the anti-Trump UN worker warned on Facebook that some dubious characters are betraying us and that he would reveal names later.
(see post below).Abdullahi Shuaibu, 53, was picked up by cops Monday and hit with two counts of robbery and two counts of attempted robbery for the crimes committed during his two-month spree.Abdullah Shuaibu s LinkedIn account states that he lives in New York and is currently employed by the UN as a Communications Specialist .A photo from Shuaibu s Facebook page shows him standing with UN General Assembly President Morgens Lykketoft.
Abdullah Shuaibu s Facebook page includes several anti-Trump posts like this one where he hilariously refers to The New Yorker as one of America s most prestigious magazines LOL!So a guy who works for the UN and holds up banks on his lunch hours is concerned about a private conversation Trump had with another guy on a bus?
Shuaibu claims racism is the Trump card in this post: All four banks are within walking distance of UN headquarters on First Ave. near E. 42nd St., where the Nigeria native works as a journalist for an African news agency, police said.Authorities were led to the thief after a retired police officer who works at the facility recognized Shuaibu from a surveillance image previously released by the NYPD.In the first incident, Shuaibu walked into a Santander Bank on Madison Ave. near E. 43rd St. on Feb. 27 and told the teller he had a gun.
The bank employee complied and handed Shuaibu an unknown sum of money.He hit two more banks during the month of March, first striking out at a Bank of America on Third Ave. near E. 47th St. on the 13th.
He was successful in robbing a Santander Bank on Third Ave. and E. 63rd St. on the 27th.Police arrested him later in the day when he returned to the UN.
Read more: NYPOn March 28th, warned his Facebook friends that some dubious characters are betraying us!
Names will be mentioned later Hmmm very interesting timing!