Comedian Jon Stewart has never been shy about his absolute disdain for Donald Trump, now the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
But since he left the Daily Show, he has been mostly silent on one of his most frequent targets as he achieved unprecedented political success.That just ended.
Stewart appeared on a podcast with former Obama confidante David Axelrod, and as usual, was not shy at all about how much he can t stand Trump.Stewart criticized Trump during an appearance on Axe Files, a podcast hosted by David Axelrod, a former top advisor to President Obama.
The former Daily Show host questioned Trump s ability to run for the White House as a man-baby.
He is a man-baby.
Stewart said, as flagged by Politico.
He has the physical countenance of a man, and a baby s temperament and hands.
Stewart went on to call him a narcissistic asshole.
Trump has demonstrated over the years that he is extremely thin-skinned, and Stewart s repeated mockery on his Comedy Central show clearly got under the reality TV star s skin.
In a 2013 tweet, Trump whined that he was much smarter than Stewart and described him as totally overrated.
By now we that as Trump s extremely predictable attack pattern, from which he rarely deviates because he just isn t imaginative enough.I promise you that I'm much smarter than Jonathan Leibowitz I mean Jon Stewart @TheDailyShow.
Who, by the way, is totally overrated.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2013But this old attack on Stewart also gave a hint of the path Trump was soon to follow.
In the tweet, Trump refers to Stewart as Jonathan Leibowitz, which is his legal name.
Trump was signaling something about Stewart s Jewish ethnicity, three years before his campaign became a favorite of racists, bigots and anti-Semites.A reporter for GQ was recently pushed into filing a police report about online abuse she has suffered at the hands of Trump s fans after writing a profile of his wife Melania.
Among the most common attacks the writer was slammed for being Jewish.Featured image via YouTube