Like Rolling Stone before them, GQ Magazine is hailing President Obama as one of the greatest presidents of our time.
Calling him 20 dollar bill great and Mount Rushmore great, GQ s Jim Nelson puts it plainly:Something is dawning on us it s almost too soon for us to admit, but it s there, a half-considered thought only now blooming in our brains.
Maybe we dismiss it with one of those quick cognitive fly swats.
Nah, too early to say or I hate that guy.
But the truth is coming, and it sounds like this: Barack Obama will be inducted into the league of Great Presidents.In fact, Nelson is so confident that President Obama will be remembered as one of greatest presidents, that he predicts, in due time, Obama will overtake Clinton as the best one since FDR.Now that s a lot of confidence.
But how can Nelson be certain of such a grand prediction?
It s really, really simple: he got stuff done.
He helped save the world and United States economy, he signed into law Obamacare, his character was paramount in the face of unprecedented obstruction, and yes, he is the first black president.
But there was one special, electrifying quality that President Obama gave us that the best of best have given us: his speeches.
His ability to communicate and relate to the average American was unlike any other:With Obama, each thoughtful step of the way, from his soaring acceptance speech ( The road ahead will be long.
Our climb will be steep ) to his epic speeches on race and religion, his responses to the shootings in Tucson and Newtown, the killing of Osama bin Laden, the opening of Cuba ( Todos somos Americanos!
),and countless other momentous occasions, he knew how to speak to our better angels at a time when it was hard to locate any angels.With his mesmerizing clout, President Obama was able to do what other before him like LBJ, Clinton and FDR did, and that was get things done.
In an era when getting things done is a thing too often out of reach, President Obama overcame the odds.I agree completely with GQ President Obama is one of the nation s finest presidents, and history will be very kind to him.
As it should be.Photo by Joshua Lott/Getty Images