The Russians have wanted a puppet in the White House for decades, and now they have one after successfully helping Donald Trump win the election.Last week, the CIA concluded along with over a dozen other intelligence agencies that Russia interfered in the election to get Trump elected.
Trump refused to acknowledge that Russia meddled.
In fact, he has been desperately defending Russia as his legitimacy is increasingly doubted.
Republicans have largely sat on their hands because they don t care if a foreign power rigged our election as long as their candidate wins.But now Russia has a measure of control over the United States that they have never had before and that means Vladimir Putin was able to execute a coup in this nation without firing a single shot and the unwillingness of Trump and Republicans to do anything about it enraged Keith Olbermann, who tore them to shreds for it.
We are at war with Russia, Olbermann began.
Or perhaps more correctly, we have lost a war with Russia without a battle.
We are no longer a sovereign nation, we are no longer a democracy, we are no longer a free people, we are the victims of a bloodless coup.
Indeed, if Russia and the GOP are allowed to get away with this coup, nothing stops Republicans from seeking help from foreign powers in any election.
Democracy would be dead, and our government would no longer be chosen by the people.Olbermann shamed Republicans for not taking Russia s espionage seriously and wondered if the Russians hacked the RNC and have kept what they found there to make sure Trump and the Republicans obeyed.
That would certainly be an explanation for why Republicans have been defending Russia.And that s why Olbermann called for the immediate appointment of a special prosecutor and called for preventing Trump from taking office until we know what Trump knew and when he knew it.
After all, Trump did encourage Russia to continue hacking our political process during the campaign.
There is no time for a full review or a measured analysis or recommendations to prevent interference in our future elections.
Because permitting Donald Trump to assume the office of president reduces the chance that we will have any future elections.
The nation and all of our freedoms hang by a thread, and the military apparatus of this country is about to be handed over to scum who are beholden to scum Russian scum.
Trump is already stocking his cabinet with pro-Russia officials, including Putin s personal friend Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State.
And because Trump wants to build a hotel in Moscow and owes Russia for getting him elected, it s likely Trump will be beholden to Putin, which means a weaker NATO and a weaker America as Russia grabs for power around the world with no United States to challenge them.
It will not be a peaceful change of power it will be a usurpation, Olbermann concluded.
And the usurper has no validity, no credibility and no authority under the Constitution.
This is a reality, and this will be the only reality until this country rids itself of Donald John Trump.
He is not a president he is a puppet.
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald trump and the Republican Party are ignoring Russia s meddling because they won the election.
If the situation were reversed and Hillary Clinton has won with Russia s help there is no denying that Republicans would be crying foul right now.
So they need to stop being hypocrites and start standing up for the integrity of our election system.
They need to keep Trump from taking office and the best way to do that is to get the Electoral College to vote against him.
Our nation s future is at stake.Featured image via screenshot