Despite the fact that many election experts have been hoping that the 2016 election results would be examined, Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton is being attacked by the Trump campaign for supporting the efforts of Green Party candidate Jill Stein to recount the votes in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.Earlier today, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway unloaded on Clinton s campaign but Trump couldn t just leave it at that.
Shortly after Conway criticized the recount effort, Trump chimed in with a statement of his own.
In Trump s response, he blamed Stein and the Green Party for their ridiculous recount scam and accused Stein of trying to profit from it.
Trump said: The people have spoken and the election is over, and as Hillary Clinton herself said on election night, in addition to her conceding by congratulating me, We must accept this result and then look to the future.
It is important to point out that with the help of millions of voters across the country, we won 306 electoral votes on Election Day the most of any Republican since 1988 and we carried nine of 13 battleground states, 30 of 50 states, and more than 2,600 counties nationwide the most since President Ronald Reagan in 1984.
This recount is just a way for Jill Stein, who received less than one percent of the vote overall and wasn t even on the ballot in many states, to fill her coffers with money, most of which she will never even spend on this ridiculous recount.
All three states were won by large numbers of voters, especially Pennsylvania, which was won by more than 70,000 votes.
This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has already been conceded, and the results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing.
Trump is right that Clinton conceded the election, but she s not legally bound to that and it s especially insane that Trump would use her concession as part of his argument because he once said he wouldn t concede.
Another glaring mistake in Trump s argument is his the people have spoken statement, which is hilarious considering Clinton won the popular vote by a landslide, as The Atlantic s David Frum pointed out:TwitterIn Wisconsin, there have already been four precincts that were reported to have discrepancies.
Trump and his team are not hiding their anxiety over this issue very well, and they have every reason to be worried.Featured image via Win McNamee and Ty Wright / Getty Images