Remember the HOPE poster that became a huge hit?
Well, the artist responsible for it is speaking out on the past two Obama presidencies.
Some might say that Shepard Fairey is partly responsible for the election of Obama.
Who DIDN T want some hope and change in 2008?
Now we know the rest of the story we got no hope and the change is a disaster!
So you would think that Shepard Fairey has seen the light and is voting like many Democrats are for Trump.
No, he hasn t learned anything after all.
As much as he says Obama s agenda was a disaster, he s going to vote for Bernie.
Liberal lunacy for sure!Shepard Fairey, who s now a Bernie Sanders supporter, says that after Obama won the presidency, he went quiet on a lot of things he promised while running for office.
I think history will be fairly kind of his presidency but I want things to move further in the direction that he promised as a campaigner, he said.
He s been more outspoken in the last 18 months.
I think he s going out having done some good things and said some good things, but there were about six years there where I think he could have done more.
Fairey said he had high hopes for Obama and that the president couldn t blame his failures entirely on congressional gridlock.
If he had been as outspoken as he was as a campaigner, I would give him a pass on not being able to push through some of the progressive things I hoped he would, but he was quiet on a lot of things, he added.
That to me was unfortunate.
Similarly, German journalist Klaus Faissner pointed out that Obama transformed from an electrifying candidate into a Bush on steroids who promoted drone strikes, mass surveillance, and a totalitarian relationship with the media.
Obama signed more orders for drone assaults than Bush Jr. had done in the entire eight years of his presidency, he said.
These were drone strikes which caused catastrophic levels of non-combatant casualties, which America simply wrote-off under the euphemism of collateral damage.
Via: Progressives Today