Today is July 4th, otherwise known as America s Independence Day.
Americans across the nation know this is the day our country came into being and we celebrate that by lighting fireworks and spending time with friends and family.But disgraced former Republican Rep. Allen West thinks something sinister is afoot.For years, conservatives have been trying to make everyone believe that there is an imaginary war on Christmas.
Such an idea has been very profitable for guys like Mike Huckabee and the folks over at Fox News who constantly claim Christmas is being destroyed by godless liberals even though the war is only occurring in their heads.And now it sounds like West is trying to cash in on that concept by claiming that there is a war against July 4th.In his blog on Monday, West whines about how people simply refer to this day as July 4th instead of the 240th American Independence Day.
I see something very disturbing happening today, he begins.We ve become so damaged by the talons of political correctness that it now threatens the very existence of our Republic.
And I mean its very founding.I ve been amazed at how people greet you with Happy 4th of July , as if we are celebrating a numbered date on the calendar.
If this continues, there will be generations who will no longer know what happened on this day, other than we should have cookouts and shoot off fireworks.Today is our 240th American Independence Day, a significant day not just for America, but for the world.Really?
Just because people are greeting you today with Happy 4th of July that makes you convinced that Americans are forgetting what happened on this day?
I see you still haven t had your head examined by a qualified neurologist, Mr. West.
You might wanna get that checked.Anyway, West goes on to urge people to read the Declaration of Independence, which is a good learning exercise.
However, West uses that call to then attack President Obama and liberals by comparing Obama to King George III and claiming that liberals are trying to subvert the holiday.These are the stories we must teach our children and grandchildren, lest they go off following the failed messages of the progressive socialist left.
This is why we must not celebrate the 4th of July, but American Independence Day or else someone will tell you they re going to fundamentally transform your nation and you have no clue what that means.This is why today, I implore y all to take the time to carefully read the entire Declaration of Independence and notice the parallels to the grievances then to today, such as, He has erected a Multitude of new Offices, and sent hither Swarms of Officers to harass our people, and eat out their Substance think IRS and other regulatory agencies.Or how about this one, He has combined with others to subject us to a Jurisdiction foreign to our Constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent to their Acts of pretended legislation sound familiar?
Consider Obama s rule by edict and executive order antithetical to our Constitution.And I love this one: For imposing taxes on us without our Consent need I remind you there are twenty new taxes in Obamacare.But just as West was wrong to torture a man in Iraq for information when he was a Lieutenant Colonel, he is woefully wrong now.First of all, President Obama was duly elected to his position by the American people.
He is not a king and he his second term in office will be finished in January, and he will leave office.
If he were a king, he would never leave.President Obama is not the only commander-in-chief to issue executive orders.
Every single president except for one has issued an executive order, including George Washington.
He issued 8 such orders.
Thomas Jefferson, whom West brags about in his post, issued four.
President Obama has issued 235 executive orders, but Reagan and George W. Bush issued over 600 combined.
And if we look at the number of executive orders issued per year, we find that President Obama s average is the lowest in modern history.
We have to go all the way back to Grover Cleveland to find a president with a lower average.
If we go by West s logic, the only president who wasn t a tyrant was William Henry Harrison, who died one month after Inauguration Day.
But even he would have likely issued some executive orders had he lived to complete a four year term.So executive orders have a precedence that goes back all the way to the first President of the United States.West also claims that the American people were taxed without their consent because of Obamacare.
This is also an outright lie.By declaring our independence, Americans were able to create their own government and had the power to vote for their representatives in Congress.
Americans did this very thing in 2008 when they sent a Democrat to the White House and kept Democrats in control of both chambers of Congress.The House voted in 2009 to pass Obamacare and all the taxes it contains by a vote of 219-212.
The Senate voted to pass it by a vote of 60-39.
And that was right after the people elected President Obama, and they would elect him again in 2012.
West is likely whining because our system of checks and balances between the three branches of government, also established by the Constitution, has prevented Republicans from repealing Obamacare.It should also be pointed out that if President Obama were a tyrannical king, Allen West s head would be on a pike right now because that s what real tyrants do.It sounds like Allen West is the one who needs to brush up on his history.Featured image via Wikimedia