This election is all about the Supreme Court, and nobody s been hammering that point more than Republicans.
They say that if Hillary s elected, she ll nominate liberal judges who will take away all our rights and freedoms, or something, because that s totally how the judicial branch works.
To that end, the GOP has pretty much said they ll block all her nominees, just as they ve blocked Merrick Garland, the justice Obama nominated to replace Justice Scalia.To nobody s surprise, Obama is pissed off about this, as well he should be because now they re just being childish and petty.
The Senate GOP originally said that they won t consider Garland because they think the American people should decide who replaces Scalia.
Now they re going back on even that, and Obama put a nice, sharp point on their hypocrisy earlier today: Now they re saying, Well, if [the people] don t decide the way we want them to decide, maybe we won t even do that.
Eleven years ago, Richard Burr said a Supreme Court without nine justices would not work.
Well, what changed?
What, only Republican presidents get to nominate judges?
Is that in the Constitution?
I used to teach constitutional law.
I ve never seen that provision.
[emphasis mine] What, only Republican presidents get to nominate judges?
Obama goes to town on GOP senators floating a SCOTUS blockade under Clinton.
pic.twitter.com/LcSXveJukJ Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) November 2, 2016BOOM.
With their my way or the highway, position, they ve proved once and for all that this has nothing to do with having the American people decide anything.
It proves that they don t care about creating a Constitutional crisis if it gets them what they want.
It s about knowing that they ll lose even more power if a Democratic president is allowed any more Supreme Court justices the will of the people be damned.And power is all they care about.
At this point, they don t care how they get it and keep it as long as they do it.If Hillary s elected next Tuesday, the American people will have decided, even if they decided against Republicans rather than deciding for Democrats.
The nominees of Democratic presidents deserve a fair hearing and vote.
It s a truly terrible situation for the GOP, but, well, they ve been digging their own graves for six years.
They get to live with the fruits of their actions.Featured image by Sara D. Davis via Getty Images