THE USDA, EPA AND NOW THE DOJ Obama is using billions of taxpayer dollars to redistribute to his cronies and liberal agitators.
Just Tuesday, the DOJ s Loretta Lynch unleashed millions to be given to community organizers to do who knows what with The Justice Department announced $163 million in grants to be distributed for the purpose of building trust with the community.
As part of its effort to execute the recommendations of the president s task force, the Justice Department is looking for 10 localities to participate in a collaborative reform process to serve as a model for the rest of the country, emphasizing procedural justice and implicit bias training.
A list of grants awarded by the Justice Department in 2013 indicate federal funding has been and will continue to be directed toward activist groups described by critics as racial agitators.
For example, Community Policing Development Awards were given in 2013 to programs including Building Trust With Communities of Color from the Vera Institute of Justice, the Race and Social Justice Initiative at the Portland Police Department and Racial Reconciliation, Truth-Telling, and Police Legitimacy at John Jay College.Matthew Vadum, an expert in left-wing activist groups and the author of Subversion, Inc., warns such federal funding invariably finds its way into the hands of progressive activists who personally profit from increased community tensions.
After attacking police as stupid, racist, vicious and thuggish almost non-stop throughout his presidency, now he suddenly cares about police officers and the communities they serve.
Now he wants to throw millions of taxpayer dollars at ACORN-like groups and professional left-wing agitators whose calling in life is to generate civil unrest, he said.
This means that people like the president s point man on race relations, riot organizer Al Sharpton, will get his hands on lots of government money.
This money won t actually help anyone except for the often-violent Saul Alinsky-inspired community organizers who have been living high off the hog ever since one of their own took up residence in the White House.
Wrong solutions to a problem he created Civil-rights activist Rev.
Jesse Lee Peterson, author of Scam: How the Black Leadership Exploits Black America, argues the Obama administration will use grants to reward political allies instead of fighting crime and helping the black community.Read more: WNDUSDA GOVERNMENT GRANT PROGRAMS DIRECTED AT THE POOR AND FOOD DESERTS -JUST ADD IT ALL UP: $80 BILLION IN SNAP PER YEAR PLUS $31.5 MILLION, $75 MILLION, $100 MILLION, $4.5 BILLION: Less than a year after spending tens of millions of dollars to provide the nation s food-stamp recipients with more fruits and vegetables, the Obama administration is generously throwing in another $31.5 million for the same cause, according to a recent announcement.It s the last thing Americans need to hear as the dreaded tax day approaches since, after all, they re bankrolling the healthy food campaign for low-income residents.
Under President Obama the country s food-stamp program rebranded Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to eliminate stigma associated with the welfare benefit has grown immensely, according to the government s own figures.
A record number of people, around 47 million, get free groceries from Uncle Sam at an astounding cost of about $80 billion a year.It isn t enough to give tens of millions of people free food.
The administration wants to assure the welfare recipients are eating healthy and nutritious items by providing government-subsidized produce, whole grains and low-fat milk in neighborhoods it has labeled food deserts.
It s part of a broader effort spearheaded by Michelle Obama s $4.5 billion law to revolutionize the inner city diet by providing fruits, veggies and grilled lean meats as alternatives to greasy, fried foods that tend to be more popular in those areas presumably because they re cheaper.The money flows through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which has poured huge sums into the cause and this month dedicated the additional $31.5 million.
Encouraging low income families to put more healthy food in their grocery baskets is part of USDA s ongoing commitment to improving the diet and health of all Americans, said Obama s Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.
He referred to the costly program as creative community partnerships that will ultimately help SNAP participants better afford fruits and vegetables.
Officially the funds for this particular initiative have been coined Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grants.Judicial Watch has reported on this extensively in the last few years, exposing the enormous sums of taxpayer dollars that have been wasted on this ineffective experiment.
In fact, last year JW wrote about an academic study that shows the First Lady s pricey initiative to eliminate food deserts is failing miserably.
The study focused on a low-income neighborhood in Philadelphia that received generous grants from the government to build new markets and add healthy food options to convenience stores.
Researchers found that dietary habits or obesity were not altered and it did not lead to changes in fruit and vegetable intake or body mass index.Before that JW reported that the administration wasted $75 million to study ways of better recognizing the nutritional needs of low-income communities and more than $100 million in Obamacare grants to reduce health disparities between minorities and whites by, among other things, eliminating food deserts.
The administration even created a special internet mapping tool (Food Desert Locator) that identifies areas with limited access to affordable and nutritious foods.
Less than a year ago the Obama administration announced that it was launching a special research center that will find ways to help food-stamp recipients make healthier and wiser food choices.
It will be called the Center for Behavioral Economics and Healthy Food Choice and Americans will pay at least $1.9 million possibly more to create it.
There seems to be no end to the madness, an obsession to control what private citizens consume and change the ingrained eating habits of an entire demographic.Read more: Judicial WatchEPA GRANTS AND FUNDS USED TO REDISTRIBUTE TAXDOLLARS AND BUY SUPPORT FOR PHONY AGENDASBut the American Lung Association backs up the White House and EPA claims vigorously promoting the phony pollution/asthma link.
However, the EPA s $24.7 million in grants to the ALA over the past 15 years should raise questions about the association s credibility and integrity on climate and pollution.The EPA also channels vast sums to its independent Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, which likewise rubberstamps the agency s pollution claims and regulations: $180.8 million to 15 CASAC members since 2000.
Imagine the outrage and credibility gap if Big Oil gave that kind of money to scientists who question the dangerous manmade climate change mantra.Read more: wj