Donald Trump is successfully ruining all of our relationships with other countries, and cutting ties with some of our most valuable allies.Just yesterday, Trump put America in a terrible position with Australia after speaking with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.
Basically, he hung up on Turnbull after bragging about his election win and condemned the Prime Minister for a refugee acceptance deal Australia had made with the U.S. during former President Barack Obama s presidency.
Trump had even told Turnbull that compared to the other calls he d had with world leaders, this was the worst call by far.
To make matters worse, Trump tweeted this right after ending the call: Do you believe it?
The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia.
Why?
I will study this dumb deal!
Having sabotaged America s relations with Australia and many other countries, Trump is severely compromising the safety and future of America and we should have seen this coming, considering his extremely disrespectful treatment of China during his transition phase.
The only country Trump manages to get along with is of course Vladimir Putin s Russia.In response to Trump s reckless, clumsy handling of world relations, renowned political commentator Robert Reich released a statement on Facebook that truly reflects where America is at this moment in time.
Americans are terrified and filled with despair over what Trump is doing, and other countries are being affected as well.
In his post, Reich apologized profusely for the disastrous events that have happened under Trump.
Reich wrote: A short note to our friends in Australia, Europe, Canada, South Korea, New Zealand, Japan, and elsewhere: We know we have a problem.
He shouldn t be in the White House.
He doesn t have a mandate for what he s doing.
His views don t represent the views of most of us.
He lost the popular vote by 3 million votes.
Russian operatives may well have got him elected.Please know, we re doing everything we can.
This post has gone viral and is being shared widely, as the majority of Americans are just as disappointed as Reich and would give anything to go back to better times.
Hopefully, the rest of the world will ignore Trump and take pity on the innocent Americans who want nothing to do with his disgusting policies.Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images