The hosts of Fox & Friends just got their asses handed to them by one of their own colleagues for protecting Donald Trump so much.For months, the FBI have been investigating Trump s Russia scandal.
The scandal continues to grow every day and when Trump fired FBI Director James Comey last week it became and even bigger story.Trump literally fires the head of the agency that is investigating him, which means he interfered in a federal investigation and committed obstruction of justice.
The firing also smacks of Watergate because former President Nixon did something similar in an effort to cover up his involvement in the crime.Clearly, Trump is desperately trying to bury the Russia investigation and he is willing to fire people to do it.But Fox & Friends have been Trump s top cheerleaders for months now and they continued in that role after Comey s firing, writing off the story as just mainstream media hysteria.
But they weren t able to get away with it on Sunday while respected journalist and fellow Fox host Chris Wallace was around.Prior to his own show, Wallace made a guest appearance on the morning program and proceeded to scold Pete Hegseth for downplaying Comey s firing.
It s been about Russian collusion from the beginning, Hegseth whined.
His critics have tried to make him look not legitimate.
And five days after the firing of Comey, the media is still chomping at the bit with hysteria.
Hegseth then played clips focusing more on what Democratic lawmakers have been saying as proof that the media is being hysterical.
Wallace took immediate offense and defended the media while letting Trump s top propaganda team know that, in fact, this is a major story.
But I do take exception to the idea that this is hysteria, Wallace said.
There are some cases there that I shake my head and think that s over the top.
Yes.
This is a big story.
The fact that we re continuing to talk about it a week later.
This is the first time in history that a president has fired an FBI director who was conducting an investigation that was directly investigating him and his associates.
It s a big story and I think it s a legitimate story to cover.
Here s the video via YouTube.So while hacks like the hosts of Fox & Friends are doing Trump s bidding by trying to delegitimize a big story that further highlights how corrupt Trump is, Chris Wallace isn t willing to buy the bullshit they are selling and has no problem calling out them out for not doing their job.
If only more Fox hosts were like Chris Wallace, Trump would be in deeper shit.Featured Image: Screenshot