First off, if you re reading this and have never been wrong, look in the mirror and repeat, I m full of myself.
Truth is, we all make mistakes.
Some bigger than others, but owning up to those mistakes shows a bigger strength of character.
To be blunt, admitting you re wrong is far better than insisting you re right.So, when Hillary Clinton appeared on MSNBC and praised former President Reagan alongside Nancy Reagan for their help in starting a national conversation about HIV and AIDS, you can only imagine people angrily took to their social media accounts to call her out.
Hell, as a gay woman, I did too.
Hillary Clinton: The Reagans, particularly Nancy, helped start a national conversation about HIV and AIDS.
https://t.co/7sZp8X53fb MSNBC (@MSNBC) March 11, 2016 As most of us know, Reagan wasn t just awful regarding HIV and AIDS, he was outright horrific, with his White House even calling AIDS the gay plague.
Clearly, Hillary was incorrect in her assessment of the Reagans regarding AIDS.
There s no doubt about that.And about an hour later, Hillary acknowledged that she was wrong, noting how utterly incorrect she was in her original statement.
She wrote: While the Reagans were strong advocates for stem cell research and finding a cure for Alzheimer s disease, I misspoke about their record on HIV and AIDS.
For that, I m sorry.
Hillary Clinton s statement on her comments about the Reagans' record on HIV and AIDS: pic.twitter.com/RtIs0zpJfk Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 11, 2016For many, this apology hasn t been enough and have been using this mistake as a tool to attack her.
However, let s think about that.
Here s a woman who, quite honestly, cannot afford to make a mistake in speaking pretty much at any time, and she s completely owning her mistake.
She doesn t double down on it, like many politicians, even recently, have done.
She doesn t say it was a gotcha question that forced her to say the wrong thing.
She owned it.
And owning a mistake, no matter the size, is actually a quality you want in a leader, to be frank.
You don t want someone who can t recognize their blunders.
You don t want someone who s going to hold their ego above what is right.
You want someone who is accountable for their actions.
Which is exactly what Hillary just did she owned her mistake, and on top of it, apologized.
When was the last time you heard a politician apologize for something that they did wrong?She fucked up & owned it.
I guess.
It's the ones who will NEVER apologize (Trump, Dubya) that are dangerous.
https://t.co/abPt6CfAbU Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) March 11, 2016Here s the thing.
If you want to be the sort of person with the maturity of a schoolyard bully and use this to throw Hillary under the bus, it only serves to make you look like the jerk.
And I know a good portion of people reading this will call me Hillary apologist.
Do what you will.
However, what happened, happened.
She owned it.
She apologized.
Still waiting for an apology from several others.
Why not focus your efforts there.Featured image: Twitter