If you ve been paying attention, you know that Donald Trump is doing everything he can to discredit any recount efforts, which is weird when one considers some tweets he sent out Sunday regarding people who allegedly voted illegally.
In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally, Trump tweeted, adding that winning the popular vote which he did not do is so easy that he would have campaigned in 3 or 4 states.
In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016It would have been much easier for me to win the so-called popular vote than the Electoral College in that I would only campaign in 3 or 4 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016states instead of the 15 states that I visited.
I would have won even more easily and convincingly (but smaller states are forgotten)!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016Sure, he has no evidence that anyone voted illegally, but if he truly believes this, why isn t he embracing the recount efforts that are currently underway?
Surely they will prove once and for all that most Americans like him.
Or not.
Probably not.
Definitely not.
In any case, George Takei is sick of Trump s shit.
Our president must act presidential, each word measured and supported, Takei tweeted in response to this latest in a seemingly endless series of President-elect Asterisk s monumentally stupid statements.
You, sir, are a disgrace and an embarrassment.
Our president must act presidential, each word measured and supported.
You, sir, are a disgrace and an embarrassment.
https://t.co/GA9mBMt1Iq George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 27, 2016He s right.
If Donald Trump doesn t make you feel embarrassed as an American, there is something wrong with you.Featured image via Getty Images (Matt Hayward/Joe Raedle)/screengrab