21st Century Wire says US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson tells us that the war on Syria can only be solved through a political process .
Wait, didn t Nikki Haley just say getting Assad out is not the only priority, we don t see a peaceful Syria with Assad in there .
Our strategy in Syria, our priority is first to defeat ISIS , says Tillerson.
Again Haley outlines multiple priorities and there s not any sort of option where a political solution is going to happen with Assad at the head of the regime .
Deliberate flip flopping on policy or problematic internal communication at the White House, which in the last 24 hours has seen a scramble to re-soften its approach via Rex Tillerson on Syria.More on this report from RT RTUS Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has said the Syrian crisis can only be solved through a political process, claiming it s not regime change but the defeat of the Islamic State (IS, formerly ISIS/ISIL) terrorist group that Washington is seeking in Syria.
Our strategy in Syria, our priority is first to defeat ISIS, the US official said in an interview with ABC s This Week host, George Stephanopoulos, which was aired Sunday.Saying that once the battle with the terrorist group is concluded, which according to the US official is going quite well, Washington plans to turn its attention to achieving ceasefire agreements between the regime and opposition forces.
Bringing the parties to the table for political discussions clearly requires the participation of the regime and the support of their allies, Tillerson said in another Sunday interview to the American media, speaking to John Dickerson on CBS s Face the Nation.
Once a ceasefire becomes a reality in Syria, we will have the conditions to begin a useful political process, he said.
It is through that political process that we believe the Syrian people will ultimately be able to decide the fate of Bashar Assad, he told ABC.Tillerson reiterated the same on CBS, saying that Washington hoped to work with its coalition members and with the UN, in particular through the Geneva process, to be able to navigate a political outcome in which the Syrian people will in fact determine Bashar Assad s fate and his legitimacy.
The US Secretary of State underlined the Russian role in the process, saying that the US hoped it could work together with Russia and use their influence, and that Moscow will choose to play a constructive role in supporting ceasefire through their own Astana talks, but also through Geneva.
READ MORE: Russian FM & US Secretary of State discuss US strike on Syria in phone call I m hopeful we can have Russia be supportive of a process that will lead to a stable Syria.
Clearly they are Bashar Assad s current ally, they should have the greatest influence on Bashar Assad, he told Stephanopoulos, but he warned that Russia should be thinking carefully about its continued alliance with Bashar Assad.
Inaccurate and inconclusive : Lavrov slams US accusations of Assad regime using chemical weapons in Idlib https://t.co/TU2XP6YAeB pic.twitter.com/iwy1vXa4Rx RT (@RT_com) April 8, 2017 Every time one of these horrific attacks occurs, it draws Russia closer into some level of responsibility, he said in an apparent reference to a recent alleged chemical attack in Syria s Idlib province.
Washington blamed the Syrian government for the incident, while Moscow has said there has been no evidence presented to support such claims.
LEARNING LIBYA LESSON Speaking of the US missile strike on a Syrian airbase, ordered by President Donald Trump in response to the alleged use of chemical weapons, Tillerson told CBS that clearly the message is that the violation of international norms, the continuing ignoring of UN resolutions and the continuing violation of agreements will no longer be tolerated.
The airstrike is only related to the alleged chemical attack, the US official claimed, adding that Washington has learned its lesson of what it looks like when you undertake a violent regime change, referring to Libya.
Obviously the United States own founding principle is self-determination, and what the US and our allies want to do is to enable the Syrian people to make that determination We ve seen what violent regime change looks like in Libya and the kind of chaos that can be unleashed and indeed the kind of misery that it enacts on its own people, he said on CBS.
I think we have to learn the lessons of the past, he emphasized on ABC, adding, Any time you go on and have a violent change at the top, it is very difficult to create the conditions for stability [in the] longer term... Continue this report at RTREAD MORE SYRIA NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire SYRIA FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV