Ted Cruz has said many stupid things during his run for the Republican nomination yet it s no surprise he s still a contender among GOP candidates since all the choices are pretty bad.
The senator from Texas faced tough questions from CBS This Morning hosts about his call for law enforcement officials to patrol Muslim communities.
After the attacks in Belgium, Cruz said: We need to empower law enforcement to patrol and secure Muslim neighborhoods before they become radicalized.
CBS hosts demanded an answer to his bizarre suggestion on how it would logistically work to patrol millions of Muslims who are not ghetto-ized in radical communities as Cruz had suggested.
Cruz also admitted that he didn t even know how many Muslims live in America when asked by co-host Norah O Donnell.
Co-host Gayle King then slammed Cruz: There are so many people that say that your comments are decidedly anti-Muslim, and that you re playing right into the hands of ISIS.
You re giving them ammunition to come after us, to really take action against us.
Instead of addressing the issue, the creepy Cruz went on a nonsensical tangent about political correctness.
He said: Gayle with all respect, people are fed up with the political correctness of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
Islamism is a political and theocratic philosophy that commands its adherents to wage violent jihad.
King then pointed out Cruz was painting a broad population with one brush.
King is correct.
Not only is Cruz painting millions of people with one brush, but his rhetoric is very dangerous because it vilifies millions of people and dehumanizing them.
Moreover, as President Obama stated following the attacks on Belgium, What they can do is scare and make people afraid and disrupt our daily lives and divide us and as long as we don t allow that to happen, we re gonna be okay.
That s what Cruz does with his rhetoric: he divides Americans and that s not the type of leadership we need in this country.Watch Video Here: [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vWLeXdHKOOM] Featured image via video screenshot