Donald Trump s choice for Treasury Secretary is a real life Ebeneezer Scrooge.Trump s pick of Steven Mnuchin to run the Treasury Department is literally letting the fox guard the hen house.
It s also hypocritical and dangerous.Mnuchin was a partner at Goldman Sachs, a big Wall Street bank Trump often crucified Hillary Clinton for being cozy with, for 17 years.
Furthermore, Mnuchin took advantage of the financial crisis in 2008 just like Trump did and made millions of dollars foreclosing on families homes through his establishment of OneWest Bank during the collapse.And one foreclosure, in particular, makes it clear that ordinary Americans should not trust Mnuchin because he ll only serve himself instead of serving the people.According to Politico,Two years ago, OneWest filed foreclosure papers on the Lakeland, Florida, home of Ossie Lofton, who had taken a reverse mortgage, a loan that supplies cash to elderly homeowners and doesn t require monthly payments.After confusion over insurance coverage, a OneWest subsidiary sent Lofton a bill for $423.30.
She sent a check for $423.
The bank sent another bill, for 30 cents.
Lofton, 90, sent a check for 3 cents.
In November 2014, the bank foreclosed.In October, lawyers at the nonprofit Florida Rural Legal Services contested OneWest s foreclosure and asked the Polk County Circuit Court for a jury trial.
I don t know that they re the worst, but I certainly think it s criminal the way these servicers are treating elderly homeowners, said Lynn Drysdale, an attorney representing Lofton.Seriously?!
This vulture literally tried to take an elderly person s home away from them over 27 cents.
This is a guy who literally accrued an estimated net worth of $40 million at Goldman Sachs, yet he greedily refused to forgive 27 cents.
Mnuchin could have just pulled a quarter and two pennies out of his pocket to cover the extra amount himself and he wouldn t have missed it at all.
Targeting an elderly woman like that is just evil.And that s not the only evil thing Mnuchin has done to other people to line his own pockets.OneWest Bank withheld $14,332,160 from Sandy Hook victims when they needed the money the most to rebuild their homes and businesses.
And after his bank merged with another to become CIT Bank, it was accused of discriminating against black and Latino customers.In short, Donald Trump is letting a vulture capitalist take the reigns of the Treasury Department and is doubling down on conservative economic policies that caused the Great Recession in the first place.
So get ready for another crash over the next four years and don t expect the government to help anyone but themselves this time around.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images