The House Select Committee on Benghazi, which was actually just an attempt to smear Hillary Clinton all over the sidewalk, has pretty much concluded, and they found exactly nothing.
Republicans should all hang their heads in shame and leave it alone now, particularly the conspiracy theorists.
They aren t, though.
Betrayed, the right-wing conspiracy nutballs are turning their anger over Benghazi to Trey Gowdy.Trey Gowdy, who was supposed to deliver a verdict that Benghazi happened because of Hillary, all wrapped up in a neat little package and tied off with a pretty pink bow.
Trey Gowdy, who was supposed to be the only one who could successfully investigate Benghazi (because the other zillion investigations likewise turned up nothing and Republicans weren t satisfied with that).
Trey Gowdy, who was supposed to be able to turn the heat up so high on Hillary and everyone else that they d crack under the strain and spill everything.Trey Gowdy, who is now disgraced in the eyes of Republicans and Democrats alike, albeit for very different reasons.Michael Savage, a far-right wing radio host that pushes conspiracy nonsense, actually said: Trey Gowdy should be impeached for wasting my time!
He promised us a lot!
Remember?
He totally forgot the fact that members of Congress can t be impeached, they can just be kicked out entirely.
That little tidbit aside, it was the House that voted for a new investigation and put Gowdy in charge.
Shouldn t they all be thrown out now for wasting two years and millions of taxpayer dollars?
Not to side with Gowdy here, but he hardly acted alone.The Citizens Commission on Benghazi, which is made up primarily of right-wing douchecanoes looking for anything they can find to topple Hillary, is likewise angry with Gowdy.
During a meeting, retired Admiral James Lyons said: Chairman Gowdy is not a stenographer.
.
.
.
He was there to make findings and conclusions.
He had the information.
He copped out, which is consistent that we ve seen with all our congressional leadership.
Retired General Thomas McInerney is likewise wheeling around on Gowdy: [T]he American people want to know from a group that spent almost two years on it what the conclusions are.
That s what we pay you for, Mr. Gowdy.
But perhaps the silliest, most ridiculous moment came when a woman from the crowd at that meeting asked a truly out-there question: Has someone in the GOP leadership gotten their fingers involved in watering down some of this to benefit Secretary Clinton?
Because she can t possibly be innocent.
They know things.
Nobody on this commission argued that question.In fact, that less-than-reputable group has put together its own report full of inventive accusations, as the Washington Post s Dana Milbank put it.
This report claims to know that Obama and Hillary both are in bed with al Qaeda, that the U.S. government submitted to Islamic law on slander, and that the Obama administration switched sides in the War on Terror.And since Gowdy couldn t deliver what they wanted in an official report, he s now solely to blame for the failure of what was supposed to be the investigation that would finally prove Hillary guilty.
This is absolutely hilarious.Gowdy s career will probably end in disgrace.
It s hard to feel sorry for him, though.
He did everything he could, no matter how dishonest or unethical it was, to help the GOP bury Hillary.Featured image by Mark Wilson/Getty Images