A CHECK AND BALANCE BETWEEN THE MILITARY AND THE NCIS NEEDS TO BE PUT IN PLACE!As more details come out on the motive behind the Texas church shooting, the Air Force came out and admitted they didn t file the criminal record and court-martial into the federal database Horrible!
The angry man has a history of aggression and violence.
His former in-laws belonged to the church that was the scene of the massacre of innocent churchgoers:Kelly was on bad terms with his wife s mother, Michelle Shields (pictured below), who was a member of the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs where the massacre took place on Sunday.
He had been sending threatening texts to her on the morning of the shooting.
At an afternoon press conference, police revealed that Kelley had expressed anger towards his mother-in-law and sent her threatening texts .
She was not in the church but her mother was killed in the church.
Lula White (pictured below) is the grandmother-in-law of the shooter It s too bad this animal was able to walk the streets harming people his entire life.
We re with President Trump and believe that this man s mental health problem is the issue here .HOW WAS HE ABLE TO GET GUNS?A sporting goods store in San Antonio just reported they sold a weapon to Kelley.
They obviously had none of the information they needed in the background check to refuse the sale of the gun.AIR FORCE MISHANDLING OF RECORDSA day after a gunman massacred parishioners in a small Texas church, the Air Force admitted on Monday that it had failed to enter the man s domestic violence court-martial into a federal database that could have blocked him from buying the rifle he used to kill 26 people.The conviction of the gunman, Devin P. Kelley, for domestic assault on his wife and infant stepson he had cracked the child s skull should have stopped Mr. Kelley from legally purchasing the military-style rifle and three other guns he bought in the last four years.
But that information was never entered by the Air Force into the federal database for background checks on gun purchasers, the service said.
The Air Force has launched a review of how the service handled the criminal records of former Airman Devin P. Kelley following his 2012 domestic violence conviction, the Air Force said in a statement.
Federal law prohibited him from buying or possessing firearms after this conviction.
The statement said that Heather Wilson, the Air Force secretary, and Gen. David Goldfein, the Air Force chief of staff, had ordered the Air Force inspector general to work with the Pentagon s inspector general to conduct a complete review of the Kelley case and relevant policies and procedures.
The Air Force also said that it was looking into whether other convictions had been improperly left unreported.
The service will also conduct a comprehensive review of Air Force databases to ensure records in other cases have been reported correctly, the statement said.