On Sunday, President Barack Obama gave an amazing speech at the Rutgers University graduation ceremony.Speaking to well over 50,000 people, Obama went on a subtle Trump-targeted rant to reject the presumptive Republican nominee s divisive, offensive rhetoric.
Although Obama never said Trump s name, there was no mistaking who he was talking about as he spoke against building a wall.
Obama said as his audience applauded: The world is more interconnected than ever before.
Building walls won t change that.
Obama continued his anti-Trump attack, criticizing some of the GOP front runner s positions such as Trump s infamous proposal to ban all Muslims from coming into the United States.
He continued: Isolating or disparaging Muslims, suggesting that they should be treated differently when it comes to entering this country that is not just a betrayal of our values that s not just a betrayal of who we are, it would alienate the very communities at home and abroad who are our most important partners in the fight against violent extremism.
Addressing the 12,000 graduates listening to his speech, Obama urged them to rise above the strain of anti-intellectualism that Trump has encouraged in his race for the White House.
In the process, Obama couldn t help but laugh as he exposed Trump for the idiot that he is.
So, class of 2016 let me be as clear as I can be: In politics and in life, ignorance is not a virtue.
It s not cool to not know what you re talking about.
It s not keeping it real or telling it like it is.
It s not challenging political correctness.
That s just not knowing what you re talking about.
You can watch Obama deliver this powerful message below:Obama urged graduates to remain dedicated to learning the truth and keeping an open mind, warning them that only exposing themselves to information that confirms their own beliefs could result in ignorance.
Ironically the flood of information hasn t made us more discerning of the truth.
It s just made us more confident of our ignorance.
Taking the Republican party to task, Obama added that when politicians are not held accountable for repeating falsehoods and just making stuff up, while actual experts are dismissed as elitists, then we ve got a problem.
Soothing frustrations felt throughout the campaigns in this election, Obama reiterated his previous comments on income inequality that he d given during a commencement address at Howard University last week.
Obama reminded the graduates how important it was to vote and be involved in the political process: The reason some of these things have not happened even though the majority of people have approved, it s really simple.
It s because a huge chunk of Americans, especially young people do not vote.
Apathy has consequences.
You can watch Obama s full speech below it serves as a reminder to America s youth that they are powerful, and that they should use that power to unify instead of divide our country.Featured image via Eduardo Munoz Alvarez / Getty Images