If you weren t having nightmares before about Donald Trump potentially having the nuclear codes, his latest choice for national security advisor should keep you up for months, or at least until November 9th.
He has chosen, as a national security advisor, a woman who believes the earth is six million years old and that the world is ending very, very soon anyway.
That woman is the former Congresswoman from Minnesota, Michele Bachmann.The campaign hasn t yet confirmed that Bachmann is advising on matters of foreign policy, but she is advising him on evangelical matters and she was, in a bit of tragic irony, part of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence when she was still in Congress.
To some who have no idea about anything outside the borders of our country (Donald Trump), it would be logical to believe that she s an expert on foreign policy.
She s not.As for her reputed position as a foreign policy advisor on Trump s team, Bachmann says this:The former Minnesota congresswoman attended a fundraiser in the state for Trump on Saturday, where she revealed to the press that she has his ear on foreign policy.
He also recognizes there is a threat around the world, not just here in Minnesota, of radical Islam, she said, according to MPR News.
I wish our President Obama also understood the threat of radical Islam and took it seriously.
He s a common-sense guy, not into political correctness, Bachmann added, according to the Star Tribune.Source: The HillLet s forget for a moment that Bachmann is a disaster on social issues.
She hates gay people.
She thinks the Founding Fathers outlawed slavery.
She is anti-science.
She s an anti-government conspiracy theorist.
She thinks half of all African-American pregnancies end in abortion.
She thinks that there would be no unemployment if there were no minimum wage.
She thinks the U.S. is running out of rich people.As for her foreign expertise, she believes that the United States wants some sort of global currency.
She believes Jerusalem is the capital of Israel.
That would be Tel Aviv.
She believes Sharia Law is around every corner.
More significantly, she believes that there s no point in making the world a better place because Jesus will come vacuum everyone up to Heaven within the very near future.
We know that there is more prophecy of Jesus second coming even than there was in the first, she said.
We also should be encouraged and empowered as believers in Jesus Christ now more than ever with the Bible in one hand, the newspaper in another, to say to our neighbors and co-workers and people at church, this is about the Lord speaking to the world that, I am coming soon.
Source: The BlazeAre you frightened yet?h/t: Buzzfeed | Featured image via Jeff Swensen at Getty Images.