It s been five years since Occupy Wall Street was torn apart by order of New York Mayor Bloomberg.
After the arrest of 240 members and their official eviction from Zuccotti Park, the original occupiers went their separate ways, many to form other grassroots political movements all across America.
The Occupy name has since been used for protests not just across the country but all over the globe, making the movement one of the most influential in recent history.Those original organizers, who seemed so disorganized and impromptu, have decided to come back together to carry the banner of their new leader, Bernie Sanders, a man who gives their movement more meaning and a new ray of hope.
Sanders, whose favorite talking points include breaking up Wall Street and the big banks, talks of the one percent with the same contempt as Occupy, making them a perfect fit for one another.Where there was little but banners and protests there is now an impressive organization forming that will work closely with the senator s campaign to help get out the vote for the New York primary next week.
They plan to engage in a massive canvassing campaign that will ultimately turn into a banner waving, occupy-inspired march through Manhattan this weekend.
Organizer Winny Wong, one of the original campers in Zuccotti Park said: This is the place where the message of income inequality resonated across the country and across the world it s where it really began.
He s bringing it back home.
Wong is the creator of the people for Bernie movement that sparked the flames of hope for so many and inspired the Feel The Bern hashtag.
Together with other now-famed activists like Charles Lenchner and Beka Economopoulos, the occupy movement has a new home in their favorite city, a new leader and a boatload of hope.
Lenchner told CNN: Occupy was a reaction to the financial collapse, to what happened because of Wall Street s power to destroy the economy, and Bernie s campaign is the one that has been consistently focused on the role of the 1 Percent, large corporations and financial institutions.
It s a very natural connection.
So it is.
The Sanders campaign has raised oodles of money from small, private donors giving what most candidates see as pocket change, with none coming from massive super PACs that have been raising money since the dawn os time.
Sanders has proven time and time again that he s a man of the people and he has the voting record to prove it.
Had it not been for the senator from Vermont, the occupiers might have been a group of soul discorporated from their body of beliefs forever,Featured image by Mario Tama/Getty Images