By now you have seen, or at least heard about Meryl Streep s speech at the Golden Globes where she went after Donald Trump without even needing to say his name.
If you haven t, well, what the hell have you been doing in the past 18 hours?Needless to say, Streep s speech has brought on a lot of controversy with many people coming out against her, including Donald Trump himself.Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never "mocked" a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017"groveling" when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Which, by the way, is hilarious, because Meryl Streep is probably one of the most celebrated actors in all of Hollywood and is absolutely not over-rated because she s f**king phenomenal at her craft.However, with as much negativity thrown at Streep over her speech, there s been just as much defense.
And one person who is standing up to defend the famed actress is none other than famed actor/director Ron Howard.Taking to Twitter, and taking aim at a few Twitter troll, egg profiles and all, Howard lays out some solid facts.
He tweeted: Trump used his fame to speak out on issues years before he ran 4 office.
why was he allowed & Ms Streep should keep quiet?
no hypocrisy please.
trump used his fame to speak out on issues years before he ran 4 office.
why was he allowed & Ms Streep should keep quiet?
no hypocrisy pls https://t.co/CrpSCREcrw Ron Howard (@RealRonHoward) January 9, 2017Then when a troll responded:@RealRonHoward It would be nice if Streep had any idea of the facts!
It's always disgusting when these celebs repeated the lies from the MSM Deanne Tate (@deanne_tate) January 9, 2017Howard replied: Trump was a reality tv star spouting criticisms of a president & reinforcing the Birther Lie.
but now celebs should b muzzled?
@deanne_tate trump was a reality tv star spouting criticisms of a president & reinforcing the Birther Lie.
but now celebs should b muzzled?
Ron Howard (@RealRonHoward) January 9, 2017Then, really laying the point home about Trump, Howard tweeted the next morning after Trump pathetically and expectedly responded to Streep: Trump takes the bait & calls Meryl Streep overrated?!
Please Pres-Elect.
Don t make this into the WWF which is fun but not presidential Trump takes the bait & calls #MerylStreep overrated?!
Please Pres-Elect.
Don't make this into the WWF which is fun but not presidential Ron Howard (@RealRonHoward) January 9, 2017Which is exactly what all of this has become.To be blunt, Trump is an embarrassment to not only the nation, but himself, but he s too narcissistic to see it.
He can t handle people criticizing him and calling him out on things he very much did.Good on Howard for defending Streep, as we all must because she was absolutely on point in her criticism.
And if you don t like her calling out a bully, that says more about you than it does her.Featured photo by Tim P. Whitby/Getty Images for Ferragamo