Russian President Vladimir Putin got sassy with the press when he was approached by a reporter and asked about Comey: What do we have to do with it?
I m off to play hockey with my fans Putin s answer when asked how Comey s firing will affect Russia PRICELESS!HAHAHA #Putin reacts to #ComeyFiring What do we have to do with it?
I m off to play hockey with my fans #RussiaInvestigation pic.twitter.com/jLEe6Qw8Uu TRUMP ANOMALY (@ANOMALY1) May 10, 2017THIS ISN T THE FIRST TIME PUTIN S GOTTEN SASSY WITH THE PRESS: PUTIN Steals Famous President Bush Quote In Forceful Denial Of Russian Interference In U.S. ElectionsRussian President Vladimir Putin has denied interfering in the U.S. elections, and he did it by using a famous quote from a U.S. president.
Watch my lips, no, Putin said.The Russian strongman made the claim when asked point-blank whether Russia had interfered and whether any evidence to the contrary would get found.He invoked former President Reagan, although the Read my lips quote was actually used by his successor, George H.W.
Bush, speaking at a CNBC event on Arctic issues.Putin said claims of Russian interference were lies used for domestic American politics.All those things are fictional, illusory and provocations, lies, Putin continued.
All these are used for domestic American political agendas.
The anti-Russian card is played by different political forces inside the United States to trade on that and consolidate their positions inside.
Then he delivered a friendly message to U.S. audiences.
We said on numerous occasions and I reiterate that we are confident And know for sure that opinion polls in the Unites States show that very many people are friendly towards the Russian Federation and I d like to tell these people that we perceive and regard the United States as a great power with which we want to establish good partnership relations.
House Speaker Paul Ryan said Thursday in an interview with CBS News, We all knew Russia was trying to meddle with our election.
And we already know right now they re trying to do it with other countries.
Ryan continued: The world s super power, the American government needs to do everything we possibly can, not only to undercut what they re trying to do but to uncover what they re trying to do and help our allies prevent it from happening.
Putin also said Thursday he is ready to meet with Trump if Finland hosts an Arctic summit.
Finland is set to take over the rotating leadership of the Arctic Council.For entire story: Daily Mail