Months before the potential inauguration of Hillary Clinton, we are beginning to see some of the same types of attacks against her that President Obama has been dealing with for eight years.Michael Folk is a West Virginia Republican in the House of Delegates and he s a pilot for United Airlines.
He s also under fire for tweeting that Hillary Clinton should be hung.
But of course, it was a joke, or something like that.The exact tweet was from Friday and it s since been deleted (likely by Twitter), but thank goodness for screen shots.
It said, Hillary Clinton, you should be tried for treason, murder, and crimes against the US Constitution then hung (sic) on the Mall in Washington, DC.
Folk claims to have tweeted it in a moment of petulance (my word, not his) after Clinton was acquitted of any legal wrongdoing in handling classified emails.Through a phone call with Folk Saturday, he says that he wrote the tweet after watching a video of Utah Republican Jason Chaffetz, who is Head of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
Chaffetz asked a question to the inspector general of the Intelligence Community Charles McCullough, to see classified emails Clinton is alleged to have had on a private email server on CSPAN3.McCullough said that he couldn t show the emails to Congress without getting permission from the agency that owns that information, which frustrated Folk.Folk said if a private person had done what Clinton did, then they would be put in prison, which contradicts the FBI decision to not charge Clinton for the email scandal, and related the case to the scandal involving former Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus back in 2012.Source: WOWK.comHis employer isn t happy.
United Airlines released a statement saying, we are appalled by comments advocating harm to any person.
They do not represent United Airlines and we are looking further into the matter.
That s not good enough for many:And @united has pulled @MichaelFolk34 from future flights as of now!
Great first step to ensure safety of all of us.
https://t.co/DhynIukB1g Karl S. Johnson (@karljohn) July 17, 2016 Unless United fires this unbalanced individual, their words are empty rhetoric.
@MichaelFolk34 @united https://t.co/yv9fKy7tWC Mike Williams (@drummike2012) July 17, 2016I hope @united deals w/ @MichaelFolk34 so I can fly them again.
I won t fly any airline that employs pilots who promote political violence.
PolitixDude (@politixdude) July 17, 2016 If @united thinks someone like @MichaelFolk34 is mentally fit to be a pilot I know I cannot trust them with my safety.
Kevin Griffin (@Kevin4HRC16) July 17, 2016.
@united Fire that pilot @MichaelFolk34 or I will never feel safe flying United again.
Only sociopaths fantasize about lynching in the mall.
Sigmundine (@HoffmannRandi) July 17, 2016Since the election of Obama, the right has become completely unhinged.
He has been the target of over 30 death threats per day.
Judging by the rhetoric in this presidential election, where even delegates receive death threats for not toeing the line, things could be even worse for Clinton, who has wrongly been accused of being a criminal for more than 20 years.
Of course, to the right, complaints about death threats are just political correctness.
Featured image via Facebook.