As the fallout from Gretchen Carlson s sexual harassment lawsuit continues, people are stepping forward and offering their two cents (or less) on the issue.
It s only natural that former employees would want to weigh in on this as well, and some who are weighing in are really disgusting about it.
Former Fox Business executive Ray Hennessey, for instance, threw his totally worthless cents into the ring when he decided to tweet this absolutely sexist crap:There will be lots of piling on Roger Ailes today, but I find the charges hard to believe, except in the context of his sense of humor.
1/2 Ray Hennessey (@Hennesseyedit) July 6, 2016 I can t see Ailes, who is overall a great manager of people, demanding a sexual relationship from any employee.
Lawsuit distorts reality 2/2 Ray Hennessey (@Hennesseyedit) July 6, 2016Except Ailes has a history of this that goes back decades.
We suppose all those allegations were distortions too, because Ailes was just joking and why can t women take a joke?
Or a compliment?
Or or or or This is really disgusting.
Carlson not only has to endure the strain of the suit itself, but she gets to deal with having her name publicly dragged through the mud as a man-hating feminazi who wants to destroy Ailes career and life because he fired her.Or anything else along those lines.Hennesey could stand to do a little Googling on the issue before going off.
Several sources from Fox News have come forward confirming Carlson s allegations and saying sexual harassment was a regular thing for him.
One woman said he d ask her to turn around so he can see my ass.
Another said Ailes told her she could only wear dresses on the air.
That source also dropped this bomb: He always brags to people about how he doesn t do polling or testing when he chooses his on-air talent.
He told me that if he was thinking of hiring a woman, he d ask himself if he would fuck her, and if he would, then he d hire her to be on-camera.
Ailes also hated Carlson and called her a crazy, vindictive bitch, according to these sources.
It s very telling that they requested anonymity for fear of retaliation.In other words, there are a lot of people at Fox News who know he s a disgusting, dirty little old man who can t keep his pants zipped.
Hennessey made a fool of himself, along with putting himself into that same, sexist women are all vindictive bitches looking to ruin men s lives corner.Featured image by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images