After the Orlando Massacre we ve once again seen Republicans led by Donald Trump blame all Muslims for the action of one person or group of people.
They insist, while not citing any actual evidence, that Muslims in America are not helping law enforcement to prevent terrorists in their midst, who are operating in their communities.It isn t true, and now someone is speaking out.
Mohammed A. Malik actually flagged Orlando shooter Omar Mateen to the FBI, and after hearing Trump slander him and fellow Muslims, he s had enough.In an essay for the Washington Post, Malik told his story first hand:Donald Trump believes American Muslims are hiding something.
They know what s going on.
They know that [Omar Mateen] was bad, he said after the Orlando massacre.
They have to cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad.
But you know what?
They didn t turn them in.
And you know what?
We had death and destruction.
This is a common idea in the United States.
It s also a lie.
First, Muslims like me can t see into the hearts of other worshipers.
(Do you know the hidden depths of everyone in your community?)
Second, Trump is wrong that we don t speak up when we re able.Malik goes on to explain that after learning that Mateen had been watching videos put out by terrorist propagandist Anwar al-Awlaki, I contacted the FBI again to let them know that Omar had been watching Awlaki s tapes.
He hadn t committed any acts of violence and wasn t planning any, as far as I knew.
And I thought he probably wouldn t, because he didn t fit the profile: He already had a second wife and a son.
But it was something agents should keep their eyes on.
Why did he do this?I had told the FBI about Omar because my community, and Muslims generally, have nothing to hide.
I love this country, like most Muslims that I know.
I don t agree with every government policy (I think there s too much money in politics, for instance), but I m proud to be an American.He concludes with a direct message for the Republican nominee for President of the United States: Trump s assertions about our community that we have the ability to help our country but have simply declined to do so are tragic, ugly and wrong.
Featured image via Flickr