President Obama is forced to spend another Valentine s day away from his wife this year, but that didn t stop him winning his efforts to remind her how much he loves her by wooing her on national television.On Friday s installment in the Ellen Show, the First Lady had done some impromptu wooing of her husband by appearing in a surprise broadcast.
Roses are red, violets are blue, you are the president and I am your boo.
But little did she know that the Commander-in-Chief was all prepared to deliver his own Valentine s day present to Mrs. Obama.
Somebody call the Situation Room because things are about to get hot, he said as he emerged from red curtains, surrounded by flowers and the Barry White kicked in.
Michelle, this Valentine s Day I m going to treat you right.
I m going to make you some zucchini bread.
Then I ll spread out some veggies on a plate just the way you like them.
Then I ll give you a massage while you watch Ellen s Design Challenge on HGTV.
Because I love you so much, I Obamacare about you more than you even know.
But laughter aside, the President took a moment to get real.
Michelle, he said.
I ve made a lot of great decisions as president.
The best decision I ever made was choosing you.
Thanks for putting up with me.
I love you.
It s the first time Obama has appeared on the Ellen Show in person since his 2007 appearance, during which he impressed the world by managing some dance moves that defied the dad dancing routines of other candidates.
With this return, he becomes the first President to make an in-studio appearance on the show.Ellen, who is married to actress Portia de Rossi, took a moment to thank the President for his action on Equal Marriage rights, which meant she was able to stay married to her very own strong, beautiful wife.All in all, it was a tour-de-force for the President, who seems to be spending his final year in the White House loosening up and chilling out.
He has no further elections to win.
He won them all.
It s at moments like this we realize we re going to really miss the Obama White House when it s over.You can watch a segment of Obama s conversation with Ellen about being President and being married to Michelle Obama below: Featured Image via Screengrab