Donald Trump made a pathetic appearance at Regent University, where he spoke with televangelist Pat Robertson about Antonin Scalia, Supreme Court justices and uttered some pitifully stupid remarks about Obamacare.Trump, seeking out any opportunity to blast his GOP rivals, decided to focus his blabbering mouth on Texas Senator and fellow Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz.
Trump accused Cruz of being the one that pushed for President George W. Bush to nominate Chief Justice John Roberts, who Trump thought was an awful justice for a very specific reason Obamacare.
And Justice Roberts was a terrible, terrible situation because he approved Obamacare when everybody said it was going to be terminated.
Then he had a second time at it, which would have also killed it, and he passed it then too.
Placing the blame on Cruz for President Barack Obama s health care reform law, Trump insisted that Obamacare was killing everybody.
The business mogul continued to blast Cruz as the audience laughed: The one that pushed him harder than anybody was Sen. Cruz.
So, Sen. Cruz gave us Obamacare in a true sense.
It s true!
It s true!No matter what he does, he s been a disastrous judge because Obamacare is killing everybody.
It s killing everybody.
Even though his audience full of (not very smart) supporters giggled along with him, Trump has once again exposed himself as a complete moron.
Not only does he criticize Obamacare, a major healthcare initiative that he wants to repeal yet has ZERO alternative for, but he s completely full of sh*t. Obamacare isn t killing anyone or anything.
Not jobs, not people and not the wallets of the American people.Thanks to Obamacare, America now has the lowest uninsured rate ever, with 9 out of 10 Americans being fully covered.
In its first year, the Affordable Care Act helped America see a 15-year high in job growth.
Last year was also a success, as 2014-2015 marked a hot streak that America hadn t seen since 1998 and 1999.
And regardless of what Republicans say, the private sector hasn t seen any loss of jobs since March 2010, when Obamacare was signed into law.Data has also proven that Obamacare, which has enabled more people to receive quality diagnoses and treatments earlier, is saving lives and helping Americans save money as well.
The GOP loves to complain about Obamacare s premiums, but its implementation, unpaid hospital bills have seen a drastic decline in cost and number.This is just another instance where Trump goes off on something he knows absolutely nothing about.
There s so much evidence that Obamacare has done great things for our healthcare system, but the GOP will never acknowledge it.You can watch Trump act like an idiot at Regent University below, courtesy of Raw Story: Featured image via Michael Vadon / Flickr