As usual, Donald Trump s support only goes as far as who he thinks supports him.
After a week of claiming he was rooting for Peyton Manning and the Denver Broncos in the Super Bowl, he shamelessly switched sides to the Carolina Panthers after his arch-rival Jeb Bush claimed Manning as his own.During the Republican debate, a smug-looking Jeb Bush announced that Peyton Manning is supporting me, and I m for Denver.
He wasn t kidding, Manning has reportedly donated the maximum amount, $2,700, to Bush s campaign.
That had to sting the other candidates, because Manning is a well-known conservative who loves throwing cash at his favorite politicians.
He gave money to George W. Bush during his re-election campaign in 2004, gave $5000 to Mitt Romney in 2012, and regularly gives checks to Republican politicians in his home state of Tennessee.
His brother and fellow NFL quarterback Eli Manning also maxed out a contribution to Jeb Bush.This was an embarrassing moment for Trump, who up until last week was boasting about Manning.Who is Donald Trump pulling for in Super Bowl 50?
https://t.co/XbptyG0CGJ Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) January 31, 2016 I ll stick with Peyton, said Trump at the time, just one week before he very much didn t stick with Peyton.Both Trump and Bush s other rival, Marco Rubio, appeared openly bitter about Manning during the debate.
While Trump let his flip-flop speak for itself, Rubio noted that he was rooting for Peyton Manning, but now I m rooting for Carolina.
As Addicting Info s Oliver Willis recently reported, it s not just Peyton.
The Denver Broncos organization, like many football teams, is itself a massive backer of the GOP.According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the Broncos have donated $112,475 to conservative candidates and political committees.
By comparison the Carolina Panthers have given $17,000 to support the right.
While both teams have also contributed to liberal candidates, the numbers are much smaller $3,500 for the Broncos, $4,000 for the Panthers.It s fun to watch how quickly Trump will turn on a person who so recently praised just because he can t get anything from him or her.
It s clear that Trump s opinions about people change at the whims of his fragile ego.Feature image via Flickr/Papa Johns