When you get caught cheating, there are very few appropriate responses.
Groveling for forgiveness generally is the best.
Needless to say, South Carolina GOP Rep. Chris Corley probably handled things a little bit incorrectly when he found himself in that situation.The Aiken Standard reports that Corley was arrested after a brutal attack on his wife on Tuesday after he was caught cheating.
According to arrest warrants, Corley cause[d] physical harm and injury to his wife by striking her about the head and face with a closed fist and further did, after threatening to kill the victim, point a Smith & Wesson handgun at the victim causing her to fear for her life.
He only stopped assaulting her because he heard kids screaming and noticed blood coming from her head.
Then, he went to his car to grab the only thing that could make him feel better his gun for more abuse:Corley, according to the victim, then went to a car, where he came back inside and pointed a handgun at the woman and said he was going to kill himself, and then went into the bedroom.The woman fled the home with the children to a family member s house across the street, the report said.Corley told police that he and the woman got into a verbal argument, because the victim thought he was cheating on her.
He said the woman attempted to strike him in the face with her first, where he then pushed the victim off of him.Corley said during the push, the woman scratched him in the forehead.
The situation is so horrible that Republican State Senator spoke out to denounce Corley just kidding!
He called it a very unfortunate situation and said he was praying for Corley and his family.
S.C. GOP Chairman Matt Moore also spoke out, saying that his thoughts and prayers are with his wife and children.
House Speaker Jay Lucas office confirmed that his office has been notified of pending charges against Corley.
If and when an indictment is issued, the Speaker will take the necessary action to comply with the law and maintain the dignity of the House of Representatives, the Speaker s office said in a statement.
Because the matter is still under investigation, further inquiries should be directed to the Second Circuit Solicitor s Office.
The state Senator was charged with first-degree domestic violence and pointing and presenting firearms at a person.Featured image via FITS News