The GOP has been impatiently waiting for the moment that presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton would be indicted over the issue of her emails, and today they finally got their little hearts broken.Earlier on Tuesday, FBI Director James Comey made the announcement that no conservative wanted to hear that after a lengthy investigation into Clinton s controversial government emails, the FBI would not be recommending that the former Secretary of State be charged with a crime.
This makes it truly a sad day for the GOP, and you can tell how bitter they are just by the interviews they re giving.After the FBI made that announcement, Republican Nation Committee (RNC) chief strategist Sean Spicer was in an embarrassing amount of denial when he went on CNN and insisted that the FBI had issued a clear indictment of Clinton s judgement, despite the fact that it didn t recommend a formal indictment at all.
Spicer got so worked up over the fact the Clinton wouldn t be charged that he completely lost it, and threw a bit of a temper tantrum over the investigation s results.
Spicer said: These findings of the FBI are a clear indictment on Hillary Clinton s judgement and fitness to be president.
The office that she s seeking requires the highest level of judgement, making sure that our nation s secrets are protected.
CNN host Kate Bolduan reminded Spicer that the FBI had said that no reasonable prosecutor would even think about bringing charges against Clinton.Not fully understanding the irony that his party s candidate is the most unfit presidential candidate of our time, Spicer snapped back, This is someone who wants to be president, Kate!
Bolduan then cornered Spicer and asked him if he trusted the FBI to conduct a fair investigation, and the RNC strategist had to admit that he did.
Spicer confessed: Well, it sounds like it.
The findings that they made are very clear that she did exhibit poor judgement, that it was reckless by their account.
And it is not their job to decide whether it is formally prosecuted.
John Berman jumped in to point out that Trump had also disagreed with the FBI s assessment, calling it very very unfair.
Spicer decided to defend Trump and accuse Clinton of rigging the system.
I m not a lawyer.
If she had followed the law and used a State Department account or even used a private system like the director pointed out like Gmail then this wouldn t be a problem.
She chose to set up a system for herself around the rules that were established for everybody else for a reason.
And that reason is she didn t want people to know what she was doing.Any other employee that works at the State Department that did what she did would have their security clearance pulled and would be facing charges.
This is absolutely ridiculous.
Bolduan took another opportunity to make a complete idiot out of Spicer, when she followed up with this question: Donald Trump in his tweet called this very very unfair.
Do you think the investigation was unfair or do you agree with your candidate who thinks it was very very unfair?
All Spicer could do was reluctantly say that the investigation was fair, but that he still agreed with Trump that Clinton should be prosecuted.
He lamented: The system clearly looks like when the FBI turned it over, the Department of Justice has already seemed to make it very clear what they re going to do with this.
You can watch Spicer get all worked up in the interview below:Featured image is a screenshot