How does the saying go?
If we don t learn from history we re bound to repeat it.
Well, listening to Donald Trump s latest remarks the American people need to take a look back at their history books to realize what he may actually be saying, because it s outright terrifying.We already know that white supremacists across the country are beyond excited for the possibility of a Trump presidency, mainly because of his outright and unapologetic racism.
Now, he s just uttered something that should send shivers down all of our spines.
Unfortunately, most won t even notice what he s saying and it will sound appealing to them.Trump said: Five, 10 years from now different party.
You re going to have a worker s party.
He said this with the following explanation, which will appeal to many, many voters, because in all honesty it s true: A party of people that haven t had a real wage increase in 18 years, that are angry.
But here s the thing, using the language of worker s party is very reminiscent of another workers party and would also fit with Trump s general theme of his very racist and seemingly fascist campaign.Remembering history, let s recall the National Socialist German Workers Party otherwise known as the Nazi Party.Now, is Trump willfully using this language without thinking about its history?
Possibly.
Should someone tell him that using this language is terrifying?
Definitely.Anyway you look at it, though, it fits with the general theme of Trump s campaign narrative of excessive propaganda, slander, hatred, bigotry, and stifling of the other.
So, to hear him now say that the GOP will become a worker s party is absolutely nauseating, and everyone should take heed.Donald Trump is willing to say anything, not caring if he flip-flops, to gain votes to get into power.
He hasn t been able to solidify one thing that he s talked about except for the fact that he wants to be president.
He, quite literally, has absolutely no qualifying experience to be Commander-in-Chief.
With no policy experience, foreign or domestic, whatsoever.Wake up, America and realize a vote for Trump is a vote against not only the best interest of the nation, or for that matter, the world, but also yourselves.
The writing is on the wall.
His use of language should terrify us all.
Let s not repeat history.Featured Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images