As of this writing, there are 4 heavily armed morons still in the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Harney county, Oregon.
The FBI has the place surrounded and it s finally occurred to the patriots inside that the only way they re leaving is in handcuffs or body bags.
Listening to the livestream ravings of the group, this is a shocking revelation:Surrounded by FBI, ISIS supporter David Fry yelled at an FBI negotiator: You re going to hell.
Kill me.
Get it over with.
We re innocent people camping at a public facility, and you re going to murder us.
The only way we re leaving here is dead or without charges, Fry said during the night s ravings.Just so we re all on the same page, these people seized a government building, threatened to kill anyone that entered, and did a great deal of property damage, all while being allowed to hold press conferences.
PRESS CONFERENCES!
But to them, they were just camping.
With guns.
And death threats.
And no snacks.They sound exactly like a kid that s locked himself in the bathroom and refuses to come out until mommy and daddy promise not to punish him for setting the curtains on fire.Now that their playtime is coming to an end, they truly, honestly, deep down, don t understand why they can t just pack up and go home.
Ask a black person, a Latino or a Muslim if they would be allowed to leave unharmed much less not under arrest and they would quite possibly die from laughter.But these are white right wingers and this is their country!
How DARE someone hold them accountable to the law?!
Those laws exist to keep Those People in line!
They re not supposed to keep white right wingers from doing whatever the hell they want!
This.
Is.
TYRANNY!For frak s sake!
Cliven Bundy, head moron, was arrested trying to join up with the 4 morons at the refuge.
I guarantee he was outraged at the very idea of not being allowed to join an armed standoff.If the FBI is lucky, the militants fear will outweigh their indignation and they ll surrender peacefully.
If not, they re all going to die under the false belief that they re being unjustly murdered for exercising their rights.
Rights that they don t seem to understand only exist for white conservatives and for absolutely no one else.I hope for the sake of law enforcement all over the country that no one dies.
The militia movement is already trying to turn LaVoy Finicum into a martyr even though he was clearly seen reaching for his gun.
How many cops will be assassinated in the name of 4 more dead morons at the hands of the FBI?
How many federal buildings will be blown up this time?And finally: How long will we keep pretending that America doesn t have a serious domestic terrorism problem and that it s not coming almost exclusively from the overly-entitled right wing?Featured image via AI archives.