The general election hasn t even truly begun and already Donald Trump has reached a level of mudslinging previous candidates would have been horrified by.
Having already dealt an astoundingly underhanded blow to former opponent Ted Cruz by suggesting Cruz s father was involved in the Kennedy assassination, Trump has turned his gold-plated bullshit spewer in the direction of the Clintons.On May 23, Trump gave weight to the conservative conspiracy theory surrounding the death of former White House aide Vince Foster.
To the surprise of nobody, Trump put a lot of stock in the idea that Bill and Hillary Clinton murdered White House counsel Foster in 1993 as part of a cover up.
The Washington Post, apparently having quite literally having nothing better to do, dutifully reported Trump s comments as if they were genuine criticisms and not, as one might hope, the ravings of a lunatic.He called theories of possible foul play very serious and the circumstances of Foster s death very fishy.
He had intimate knowledge of what was going on, Trump said, speaking of Foster s relationship with the Clintons at the time.
He knew everything that was going on and then all of a sudden he committed suicide.
The title of the piece could have been Trump full of shit , instead it was Trump escalates attacks on Bill Clinton.
Because when it comes to a theory wrenched from the lowest dregs of the right-wing internet, we gotta hear both sides.Hilariously, seconds after bringing up Foster s death and describing it as very fishy Trump claimed he wasn t going to weigh in on what he just weighed in on.
I don t bring up [the Foster case], he lied, because I don t know enough to really discuss it I don t do that because I don t think it s fair.
Again, we catch a glimpse of just how nasty Trump s campaign is going to be towards Clinton.
He s unable to run on policy (Trump doesn t have any), experience (Trump doesn t have any), or integrity (Trump doesn t have any).
He s also unable to point to Obama s presidency due to the inconvenience of it being extremely popular.
Instead, cheap shots, conspiracies, and outrageous lies are the only weapons in his arsenal and he clearly plans to use them relentlessly.For what it is worth, there is absolutely no evidence that the Clintons were involved in Vince Foster s death.
In a Snopes post titled The Clinton Body Count (who said Snopes didn t have a sense of humor?
), fact checkers find roughly zero evidence that the Clinton administration killed Foster or anyone else to cover up damning scandals.
According to multiple investigations, Foster sadly took his own life following a harassment campaign partly led by right-wing news outlets like the Wall Street Journal and a political scandal.White House deputy counsel Vince Foster committed suicide on the night of 20 July 1993 by shooting himself once in the head, a day after he contacted his doctor about his depression.
A note in the form of a draft resignation letter was found in the bottom of his briefcase a week after his death.
(Note that this letter was not, as is often claimed, a suicide note ; it was Foster s outline for a letter of resignation.)
Foster cited negative Wall Street Journal editorials about him, as well as the much-criticized role of the counsel s office in the controversial firing of seven White House travel office workers.Donald Trump, who freely admits that he doesn t know anything about the case, finds that evidence he has heard (from right-wing blogs) fishy which makes him either a lying smear merchant or a complete and utter moron.
Take your pick.Featured image via Mark Lyons/Getty Images