Ever notice that Donald Trump is more than willing to attack people when they aren t around, but cowardly tucks his tail between his legs when he is face-to-face with them?
Joy Reid certainly noticed.During an appearance on the Rachel Maddow Show on Thursday night, Reid pointed out that although Republican nominee Donald Trump brags about being tough when he is bullying people, he acts like a total coward when the people he is trying to bully are in the same room with him.To make her case, Reid brought up the fact that despite Trump declaring that Mexico will pay for his ridiculous wall he was timid during his meeting with the Mexican president.
The bully instantly became the coward and it became clear that Trump only pretends to be tough in front of his own supporters.The fact that Trump resumed his pretended toughness and bullying towards Mexico only when he returned to the United States to deliver a speech in Arizona is proof that Trump is all talk and no walk.Furthermore, even though he trashed the black Flint pastor who shut him down during a speech that was becoming too political, he only did it on Fox News.
He didn t dare challenge the pastor to her face in front of a crowd of a African-Americans.
Once again, the bully shrunk into the coward he is.
Donald Trump the blusterer is not the same guy when he is in front of the audience he is insulting when he is in front of the Mexican president, Reid said.
When he is confronted by anyone, when he is confronted, he backs down and then turns around and tells a story about how tough he was.
The more he puts himself in front of audiences of color, the more he shows off he is passive and aggressive.
He is only aggressive when he is not in the presence of the person he is bullying.
When he gets in front of the person that he previously insulted, he becomes incredibly passive.
Here s the video via VidMe.Now that it s established that Trump is a coward, it ll be fun to watch how he reacts when it comes time to debate Hillary Clinton face-to-face.
Because he has been bullying her the most.Featured image via screen capture