The GOP convention is drawing all sorts, including nutbags like this one on YouTube.
It s also drawing those who believe the GOP s policies are a major departure from what this country was supposed to be, despite all their claims that they want us to be exactly that.
Because of that, the Freedom From Religion Foundation has a billboard up near their venue with a quote from none other than St. Reagan himself, and conservatives will absolutely despise it.This is the billboard below:FFRF quotes Reagan in Cleveland message to GOP convention https://t.co/MIkpBehtQv pic.twitter.com/6EGURARKW7 FFRF (@FFRF) June 27, 2016The point is clear: Keep church and state separate.Over the last couple of decades, Republicans have worked hard to entangle civil law with biblical law, and they hope to keep us from knowing the difference.
Pea-brains like Ted Cruz, Rand Paul, James Inhofe, and more allow their religions to have a stranglehold on their policy decisions.
The GOP itself has taken the Establishment Clause to mean that Christians should be free to do whatever they want to whomever they want, but all other religions need to put up with being restricted, and shut up altogether.The FFRF has been working to keep church and state separate since 1978, and this billboard is a brilliant idea because it takes a quote from one of the GOP s own idols and turns it back on them.
Some places, like The Blaze, have already claimed that the quote is taken out of context, which is nonsense.
The full quote is: Our very unity has been strengthened by our pluralism.
We establish no religion in this country, we command no worship, we mandate no belief, nor will we ever.
Church and state are, and must remain, separate.
All are free to believe or not believe, all are free to practice a faith or not, and those who believe are free, and should be free, to speak of and act on their belief.
That s in no way taken out of context.
Instead, it s basically a summary of what Reagan was saying.
Furthermore, Reagan s own son, Ron Reagan Jr., is on the Honorary Board of Distinguished Thinkers at the FFRF, and is an atheist who isn t afraid to burn in hell.
There s little question he supports this display.It s actually the hateful, judgmental, narrow-minded Christians of the religious right who don t want to follow the Constitution, and they re dragging the GOP along with them, all in the name of following the Constitution.
It s long past time for the GOP to stop pandering to the evangelicals and actually try to govern according to the Constitution, like they keep insisting they are.Featured image by Win McNamee/Getty Images