White supremacists are celebrating Donald Trump s rise to the top of the Republican Party and KKK leader David Duke bragged about it on the radio.Speaking with Don Advo this week about Trump s decision to hire Breitbart boss Stephen K. Bannon to be his campaign CEO, Duke, who is a racist former KKK Grand Wizard, roared his approval of the choice as both Advo and Duke cheered that white supremacists had taken over the GOP, although he lamented that there were still boll weevils in the cotton.
You know, because cotton is white and boll weevils are black or brown insects.
So, something astonishing has happened.
We appear to have taken over the Republican Party, Advo declared to the delight of his Stormfront fans.
Well, rank and file, but a lot of those boll weevils are still in those cotton balls, and, uh, the Republican Party may be a European-American populated party, but like a ball of cotton, you can have boll weevils in there that are going to rot it out from the inside, Duke replied.Here s the audio via Daily Motion.
duke alt right by DailyPoliticsDuke has been emboldened so much by Trump s successful seizure of the Republican Party crown that he is now running for the US Senate in Louisiana.Should he win, Republicans would have a unapologetic racist as part of their Senate caucus and would be a strong ally of Donald Trump should he win the presidency.
A racist in the White House and a racist in the Senate is probably not exactly what Republicans were planning but that s what they got.
And that s because Republicans created the atmosphere that allowed racists like Trump and Duke to rise.White supremacists love Donald Trump, and Duke has supported the Republican nominee throughout his campaign run.Not only does Trump and Duke need to be defeated, the Republican Party needs to be taken back from the racists who took it over.
Because right now, Abraham Lincoln is spinning in his grave about what the GOP has become.
The party that ended slavery and fought for civil rights has now become the party of white hoods.Featured image via Houston Chronicle