Melania Trump has proved over the past year that she is just as dishonest as her husband.
Now it appears that she committed perjury by lying under oath about her nonexistent college degree.Shortly after she was busted plagiarizing her speech at the Republican National Convention, stealing an entire paragraph from Michelle Obama, it came to light that she was also full of sh*t when she claimed that she had graduated from the University of Ljubljana in Slovenia with a degree in architecture.
In truth, Melania dropped out after her freshman year when she moved to the United States to pursue her modeling career, possibly under a visa that was less than legal.
When the blatant lie surfaced, her website promptly pulled her bio.But now, it looks like she didn t just lie to the general public about having a degree, she also lied in court while testifying under oath, which happens to make her guilty of committing perjury.According to a report by Racked.com, the case involved her caviar skincare line, which never made it off the ground.
The line was promoted on Good Morning America, her husband s show The Apprentice and on CNBC.
But when all was said and done, the skin care products never became a reality.
The contract for the line was trashed when Steve Hilbert, who was a personal friend, was fired from the cosmetic company she was working with, New Sunshine LLC.The situation eventually resulted in a lawsuit and Melania was asked to testify in court.
She told the judge how angry and frustrated she was that she had worked so hard to promote the product line that the company ultimately never launched.
And here s where it gets interesting.The attorney asked Melania various questions about her personal background and according to the transcripts, she was less than truthful.
Where were you born, Mrs. Trump?
the attorney asked.
I was born in Slovenia, she answered.
Would you please explain to the Judge your formal education including what schools you attended and from which you graduated?
the attorney requested.
I attended and graduated from design school, from fashion and Industrial Design School and also attended, graduated from architecture degree, bachelor degree, she testified under oath.Court transcripts of Melania Trump s testimony via Racked.com screen shot.As already established, this is a boldfaced lie because she dropped out after attending classes for only one year.Perjury is a criminal offense that is not to be taken lightly.
Being convicted of perjury in a federal case can land you behind bars for up to five years and get you slapped with hefty fines.
Perjury in state cases is punishable by a minimum of a year in jail.
Republicans certainly can t stop screaming perjury when it comes to Hillary Clinton, but surely this fickle bunch will have no trouble ignoring it altogether in Melania s case.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images