Thanks to a bunch of parents who cannot handle the truth, a Virginia school district was forced to nix an educational video about racism and inequality from its curriculum after receiving complaints that its message was racially divisive.Using the metaphor of a race track, the video expertly addresses racial disparity in America throughout history in which individual runners encounter various obstacles depending on their race.
Created by the African American Policy Forum, the short video has been used hundreds of thousands of times all over America without any issues up until now.Unfortunately, a few parents in Glen Allen felt it was a white guilt video and although officials of Henrico County Public Schools originally stood by the film s much-needed message, those ignorant parents got their way.
Two days after saying the video was one component of a thoughtful discussion in which all viewpoints were encouraged, officials had banned the video, labeling it racially divisive.
They even issued an apology for trying to bring cultural awareness to students!School Board Chair Micky Ogburn said: The Henrico School Board and administration consider this to be a matter of grave concern.
We are making every effort to respond to our community.
It is our goal to prevent the recurrence of this type of event.
School leaders have been instructed not to use the video in our schools.
In addition, steps are being taken to prevent the use of racially divisive materials in the future.
We do apologize to those who were offended and for the unintended impact on our community.
Luke Harris, co-founder of the African American Policy Forum, felt the video was completely appropriate.
He said: The video is designed for the general public.
We produced something you could show in elementary and secondary schools or in college studies courses.
We found that the video has a huge impact on the people that we re showing it to.
Most of us know very little about the social history of the United States and its contemporary impact.
It was designed as a tool to throw light on American history.
It s already a shame that black history is only celebrated one month the shortest month out of the entire year, and this proves that even educational videos about the real-life struggles of African Americans don t stand a chance against white privilege.
This was a great cartoon that made the obstacles of racism (many of which still exist to this day) easy to understand.
Out of the four hundred years of slavery and oppression that black people have had to endure, you would think that the least we could do is watch a four-minute cartoon about it.
Feature image via screenshot