After the 2005 audio tape of Republican nominee, Donald Trump, making lewd comments about sexually assaulting women, there s been a lot of buzz about the existence of even more incriminating Trump footage from The Apprentice.While no tapes have been released yet, The Hollywood Reporter interviewed several Apprentice contestants who were more than willing to spill the beans on what behavior they saw from Trump during their time on the reality TV show and it s not good.According to a camera operator, the comments that Trump made on that leaked audio tape are an exact representation of who Trump is something Trump himself denied during the second presidential debate.
The camera operator said that while Trump was a host on the show, the business mogul would regularly make women feel uncomfortable with what he called borderline sexual misconduct and blatant sexism.
The camera operator said: It was more a creepy feeling you felt when he was around on set.
The way he looked at you or would be dismissive to all the female producers and only deal with Mark Burnett he was just an overall assh*le who thought of himself as very important.
Another contestant said that Trump would objectify his female contestants, only remarking on their appearance.
He would also demean them and speak to them as if they were children, which was very different from how Trump treated the men on his show: When we first started shooting and there were still a lot of contestants and you don t necessarily know all their names well, he definitely would describe the girls by their bodies and their physical attributes.
Marshawn Evans, a former contestant, further explained: If you were in the middle of the discussion or talking about the merits of why you won or lost, sometimes you would be interrupted with a compliment or something that had to do with your physical attributes.
That happened pretty much every single time you re in the boardroom.
And it wasn t just contestants that were targeted.
Trump also disrespected female crew members.
According to one source: We would not necessarily send the girl camera crews to do the close-up stuff just because it was always weird.
I know one of our camera operators would get uncomfortable.
I found out from her after the fact that he was saying things to her.
Dr. Randal Pinkett, who was the 2005 Apprentice winner, has also spoken out against Trump to confirm that he is absolutely a misogynist and racist.
He said: It was not uncommon on the set of The Apprentice for Donald to make public comments about women s looks, about who he would sleep with or who he would ask others would they sleep with.
It was demeaning, disrespectful, almost reprehensible behavior for a professional environment.
He has been divisive, he has been sexist, he has been misogynist, he s been racist.
This is not, in my opinion, the leader that we need for our country at this time.
You can watch Pinkett s interview below:2005 Apprentice winner @randalpinkett speaks out about sexual harassment on the set of @realDonaldTrump s reality show.
#ReleasetheTapes pic.twitter.com/ElXq6cHEUV MoveOn.org (@MoveOn) October 11, 2016Just by the looks of what s happening on social media, Trump is having an AWFUL week!TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterHe only has himself to thank for this.Featured image is a screenshot