Is there some reason that the media feels the need to keep talking to Kellyanne Conway?
One would think her time on the news shows was over when she called lies alternative facts, but no.
It s not, so she s still out there making outrageous claims and talking about things she knows nothing about.Thursday night, she appeared on MSNBC s Hardball With Chris Matthews, and, in trying to demonize both the press and Muslim refugees as strongly as possible, she said that two Iraqi refugees were responsible for a massacre here in the U.S.Wait, which massacre did these two Iraqi refugees carry out?Why, the one at Bowling Green, of course.Are you still wondering what massacre she s talking about?
You re not alone.
The reason the press never covered the Bowling Green massacre is because it never happened.
Ever.
At the hands of Muslims or other terrorists or anyone.And yet, she said it on national television.
While she was talking about President Obama s non-ban on Iraqi refugees coming to the U.S., she literally said: President Obama had a six-month ban on the Iraqi refugee program after two Iraqis came here to this country, were radicalized, and were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre.
Her assertion is that most people don t know about it because the press didn t cover it.
Seriously.
You can t make this up.
Watch below:Kellyanne Conway lambastes the media for ignoring the Bowling Green Massacre, which doesn t exist (via @joesonka) pic.twitter.com/8AUxX5ZymO Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) February 3, 2017Okay, so, that s a short clip, and it could easily have been taken out of context.So, for context, here s what happened: Matthews grilled her about executive orders in general, and whether or not it s kosher to be firing government employees who object.
He also asked her about federal employees, who swore to uphold and defend the Constitution, and whether they signed a petition.
Conway seems to believe that employees ought to put up and shut up, or walk.She said that everyone knew what they were getting with this new administration, but when Matthews brought up whether the president has a right to insist that his employees agree with him.
She went into extreme vetting, countries that harbor, train and export terrorism.At that point, she brought up the non-existent Bowling Green massacre, and then spoke about the attacks in Brussels, Paris, and elsewhere in Europe.
Then she talks about looking the other way with radical Islamic terrorism.In other words, the context doesn t change the fact that she completely fabricated a massacre to justify Trump s Muslim ban.
You can watch the full video here.Did she flat-out lie about this, or is she really just that stupid?
Vox might have an answer: In 2011, two Iraqi refugees, Waad Ramadan Alwan and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi, were arrested in Bowling Green, KY, on federal terrorism charges.
Allegedly, they had been plotting to send money and weapons back home to Iraqi insurgents.
Someone needs to publicly shame her on the air for bullshit like this: There was no massacre at Bowling Green; there were never any plans for a massacre at Bowling Green or anywhere else courtesy of these two, and there was never a ban on Iraqi refugees because of these two.Vox s Zach Beauchamp says it s possible she was referencing a haunted house called Bowling Green Massacre.Regardless, she made a massive fool of herself last night, along with the administration she works for.
We always knew she was ridiculous, but this is just beyond the pale.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video