Hillary Clinton was wrong to say that half of Donald Trump s supporters are deplorable.
Because it s more like 100 percent, says Keith Olbermann.As you may already know, the former MSNBC host is back with a brand new gig just in time for the election and he is not holding back.On Thursday, GQ s special political correspondent laid on the smack down on the Republican nominee for whining about Hillary s remark while simultaneously wearing it like a badge of honor.Beginning by noting how Mike Pence refuses to even call racist Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke a deplorable person, Olbermann soon mocked Trump for deciding that he should release his medical records to Dr. Oz because Doctor Who is not filming locally.
Of course, Trump chickened out at the last minute and decided not to release his records.Getting back to Trump s deplorables, Olbermann mentioned the pair of violent episodes seen at Trump rallies recently, one in which a Trump supporter grabbed a man by his neck and punched him and another in which a Trump supporter decked a 69-year-old woman and sent her crashing into her oxygen tank.Olbermann pointed out that it s still a kinder and gentler crowd because Trump s supporters aren t all wearing the same colored shirts yet.
Olbermann then went through Hillary s list of Trump s deplorable supporters, which includes racists, sexists, homophobes, Islamophobes, and xenophobes.
He named names like Carl Paladino and Robert Jeffress and aired what they have said about black people, gays, and Muslims.
These are campaign leaders, surrogates, friends of Mr. Trump, Olbermann said.
If they re not talking to a basket full of deplorables, who are they talking to?
Why would you have them there?
You say stuff like that at work, you get fired.
But Trump welcomes those who hate and is just fine with them spewing their hate out loud.In the end, Olbermann slammed every Trump supporter, including those who are not racist, sexist, etc If you support Trump.
If you think he should be president regardless of how much he and his advocates hate and mock and punch old women with portable oxygen canisters.
If you re not condemning this madness and repudiating these deplorable people and you are not racist, not sexist, not homophobic, not xenophobic, or not Islamophobic.
If you re supporting him not for those things but in spite of them, you are even more deplorable.
The correct number, Secretary Clinton, is not 50 percent, it s 100.
Here s the video via YouTube.It s so good to have Keith Olbermann back.Featured image via screen capture