Nothing is off-limits for Leslie Jones stand-up routine.
If I see another 45-year-old white woman from Williamsburg saying black lives matter, I m going to punch you in the mouth, the Saturday Night Live star said during her recent four-night stint at New York comedy club, Carolines on Broadway.
Stop doing that.
In what the New York Times dubbed a raucous, high-volume set, the 49-year-old s politically focused act tackled the Black Lives Matter movement and other protests that have followed Donald Trump s presidency.
Not one black woman out there, she said of the marches.
Black woman at home watching Housewives of Atlanta.
NYPMaybe black women weren t marching because black women are smart enough to know the march was less about Donald Trump and more about defending the killing of (mostly black) babies!
Maybe black women don t want to march with a bunch of radical women who are fighting to keep Planned Parenthood founder Margaret Sanger s dream of exterminating the black race alive.In July 2016, Ghostbusters actress and not funny comedian Leslie Jones reported Milo Yiannopoulis to Twitter police after he responded to her complaints about messages she was receiving on Twitter and other social media platforms following the release of Ghostbusters, Milo had this to say:If at first you don t succeed (because your work is terrible), play the victim.EVERYONE GETS HATE MAIL FFS https://t.co/W572qB4Vqw Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) July 18, 2016Jones did not take kindly to this, tweeting that not only had she blocked Milo (despite tweeting a mere three hours earlier that she was no longer going to be blocking people) but she had also reported his account.
@Nero you have been reported I hope the lock your Acct Leslie Jones (@Lesdoggg) July 18, 2016Jones went on to call one of Milo s supporters a racist b*tch* after he suggested that comedians shouldn t try curtail free speech.https://twitter.com/johnnie789/status/755180696130363393Of course, the ultimate victim Leslie Jones prevailed, and the guy who was wildly popular on Twitter with over 300,000 followers was permanently suspended.
Milo s permanent suspension came just 20 minutes before his Gays for Trump event takes place at the Republican National Convention.Milo, as usual, took this in his stride and retaliated with multiple tweets ridiculing Jones and her inability to accept criticism.Ghostbusters is doing so badly they ve deployed @Lesdoggg to play the victim on Twitter.
Very sad!
Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) July 18, 2016Barely literate.
America needs better schools!
https://t.co/cCAEI5Ks7w pic.twitter.com/BIYVbBq0Ln Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) July 18, 2016When asked for official comment on his blocking by Jones this is what Milo said: She must have read my review!
Honestly, this is why I say feminism is cancer.
She used to be funny but being involved in a social justice dumpster fire like Ghostbusters has reduced her to the status of just another frothing loon on Twitter.
Further ridiculing Jones, Milo said, Imagine it: the star of a Hollywood blockbuster sitting at home reporting random people on social media for saying her movie sucked.
Sad!
BreitbartFrom Breitbart The justification for the suspension is currently unknown, although it could be as a result of Milo s run-in with Ghostbusters actress Leslie Jones on the site.
Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey publicly reached out to Jones late on Monday evening after she complained about abuse on the platform.
Milo was suspended despite the fact that he sent no abusive tweets to the actress.