Donald Trump has been playing games with his tax returns ever since he began his disgraceful presidential campaign.
He repeatedly promised to release his tax returns after the election, but has continued to keep them a secret from the American people.
Democrats and Republicans alike know that the American people deserve transparency from their president, and the latest effort to make Trump reveal his tax documents is going to send him into a rage.Two House Republicans have just joined a Democratic effort to obtain copies of Trump s tax returns, with the help of the Internal Revenue Service.
This is big news and proves that not even the GOP approves of the way Trump has conducted himself.The two Republicans, Reps. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) and Walter Jones (R-N.C.), have added their signatures to a letter requesting Trump s tax returns from the past ten years.
This letter was championed by Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-N.J.) and backed by almost every person in the 193-member House Democratic Caucus.
In the letter, it is stated that Trump s tax returns would provide clarity on his conflicts of interest, which Trump has tried to hide and distract from.
The letter says: Disclosure would serve the public interest of clarifying President Trump s conflicts of interest in office, the potential for him to personally benefit from tax reform, and ensure that he is not receiving any preferential treatment from the IRS.We believe the powerful and respected Committees on Finance and Ways and Means have the responsibility to ensure oversight of the executive branch by requesting a review of President Trump s tax returns and moving toward a formal release of these documents to the public.
Trump s refusal to reveal his tax returns is unusual, breaking four decades in which every presidential nominee has been transparent with their tax returns.
Trump tried to use an IRS audit to excuse himself, but even the IRS stated he was free to release his documents whenever he wanted to.
Hopefully, this letter and the Republican senators signatures will add enough pressure to the situation so Americans can finally know the truth about Trump.Featured image via Drew Angerer / Getty Images