Just when you thought you couldn t love Vice President Joe Biden more, his microphone gets left on and we all hear what he plans to do after leaving the White House continue his work against cancer.According to The Hill: Vice President Biden on Tuesday discussed on a live TV microphone his unconfirmed post-White House plans to continue his efforts on the cancer moonshot, working out of the University of Pennsylvania.
While swearing in the new Senate, Biden was caught talking about The Biden Trust where he said: It s not so much about raising money or philanthropy, though there will be some of that, but it s more about keeping these guys cooperating and changing the culture.
He then answered a question saying: I m going to be based out of Penn for foreign policy deliberately not associating with any one medical center.
As you all may recall, Biden lost his son Beau Biden to brain cancer in 2015, and President Obama announced that the vice president s assignment was to fight and find a cure for cancer.Obama said during the State of the Union in January of 2016: Tonight, I m announcing a new national effort to get it done.
And because he s gone to the mat for all of us, on so many issues over the past forty years, I m putting Joe in charge of Mission Control.
A mission Biden is taking very seriously now and plans to continue after he is no longer vice president.Biden had said previously when he announced he wasn t going to run for president in 2016, that he s going to spend the next 15 months in this office pushing as hard as I can to accomplish this.
Adding: Because I know there are Democrats and Republicans on the Hill who share our passion our passion to silence this deadly disease.
If I could be anything, I would want it to be the President that ended cancer, because it s possible.
And maybe, just maybe, in 2020 he ll have his chance.However, until then, he plans to keep moving forward to battle the deadly disease and we couldn t be more grateful for his efforts.
Way to go, Joe!Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images