Former Representative Gabby Giffords has made a remarkable recovery after suffering a gunshot wound to the head five years ago, but now she is possibly being sued by her attacker.On January 8, 2011, Giffords was speaking to a group of her constituents outside of a Safeway in Casas Adobes, Arizona when Jared Lee Loughner began firing on the crowd.
Loughner s bullets killed six people and injured thirteen, including Giffords.
The shooter was detained by people at the event and later pleaded guilty to 19 charges related to the shooting he is currently serving seven consecutive life sentences in prison.However, although he admitted to his crimes and was sentenced accordingly, a lawsuit has allegedly been filed by Loughner against the former congresswoman for $25 million for psychological and emotional distress.
It claims claims that he is innocent and was hand-picked to be an assassin.
My incarceration is illegal.
I am actually innocent.
I was Framed.
I am a victim of project mk-ultra the govt.
put a chip in my head to control my mind .Gabby Giffords is in the Illuminati and I have evidence of this I was handpicked illegally to be a sleeper assassin.
MY HEAD is full of chips and this evil empire govt is controlling me within.
The lawsuit claims all sorts of other insane things, as well.
It says that he has been waterboarded repeatedly during his incarceration by the ATF, NSA and CIA.
The suit also alleges that his attorney is a global spy who forced him to plead guilty and that authorities are making him sick from microwave testing and chemtrails.
It even accuses Giffords of funding the San Bernardino shooters.The timing of this lawsuit has made some people think that it is a hoax.
Just days before it was filed, a similar lawsuit was filed in Michigan against Uber, supposedly by the Kalamazoo mass shooter, Jason Brian Dalton.
That lawsuit turned out to be fake and apparently the Giffords suit looks a lot like the Dalton suit.
Tucson News reports:The envelopes of both the alleged Loughner lawsuit and the fake Dalton lawsuit have very similar characteristics.Both have the same three stamps in the top right corner, have similar handwriting and are postmarked in Philadelphia, PA.The envelopes, do indeed look very similar and when you read Loughner s alleged lawsuit there seems to be a whole lot of crazy crammed into it.
Almost an unbelievable amount, in fact.Addicting Info will keep you updated on this story as it develops.Read the Loughner complaint HERE.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images