Donald Trump is easily the most unprepared and incompetent person to ever be elected president.
His most recent outrage of course is his immigration ban on those arriving in the United States from seven Muslim majority countries.
That caused the nation and world to erupt in chaos, and people who were legal residents of the United States were turned away or deported all because of their nations of origin.
Now, realizing that they royally fucked up, Trump and his band of clowns are trying to hurriedly clean it up amid worldwide protests.On Sunday s edition of Meet the Press, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus decided that people who hold green cards and are perfectly safe and legal residents should be allowed to come home.
He said to host Chuck Todd: If you re an American citizen travelling back and forth to Libya, you are likely to be subjected to further questioning when you come into an airport.
There is discretionary authority that a custos and border patrol agent has when they suspect that someone is up to no good when they travel back and forth to Libya or Yemen.
Make no mistake this is the Muslim ban that Trump promised.
The chaotic and dangerous happenings of Friday and Saturday are only the beginning.
We could very well be headed for a repeat of what happened during the Holocaust, when The United States turned away boatloads of people who were fleeing Adolf Hitler s Nazi death camps.
Most of those people went on to be brutally tortured and murdered all because we were too protectionist and cold-hearted to help them flee for their lives.What Priebus said is nothing more than a smoke screen to make people think that what they are doing is for the good of the nation and its people.
Make no mistake it isn t. This is administration is nothing more than a coup, the first step in ushering in White Supremacy as an American value and matter of policy.
The only saving grace is their gross incompetence, and their inability to hide what they are really doing from the public.
In the meantime, we are all in terrible danger as a result of electing a completely unqualified madman as president.
#RESIST.Featured image via G. Morty Ortega/Stringer/Getty Images