Less than one year ago, Charlie Sheen s ex-wife Denise Richards told reporters that their twin daughters are allegedly scared of him.
Sisters Sam, 11, and Lola, 10, are reportedly scared to be alone with their father after an alleged string of abusive texts and threatening outbursts.Richards is suing Sheen for $1.2 million after he allegedly evicted her from the home Sheen left to their daughters, Sam, 11, and Lola, 10, in a trust.The suit filed last week alleges that Sheen once texted to Lola: Your dad is a rock star genius .
.
.
Your mom is a p s wart, and that he called the girl a [bleeping] pig whore while yelling, I m going to kill you and I m going to kill your mom.
In November 2015, Sheen announced he was infected with HIV and had paid upwards of $10 million to keep it a secret.It s not that being infected with HIV is in and of itself a crime, but most people who would hide it while continuing to have sex would be in jail.
But then again, Hollywood moonbats are not most people and like Hillary and other leftist politicians, they have special rules.In November 2015, The Daily Mail published a story about Sheen with this headline:You are a crack smoking, hooker buying, mentally enslaved moron with HIV.
If anyone is on deaths door, it's you, Charlie.
https://t.co/iWXmn6bcLC Mark Dice (@MarkDice) December 29, 2016Keep it up.
You are the reason why Trump won and you don't even realize it.
Thanks for the Win!!
Howie (@DwhowardWayne) December 29, 2016no matter how bad life gets, I never actively root for someone to die.
That is a truly evil soul.
Nick Paredes (@npthree) December 29, 2016 I defended ur ass through ur one of MANY breakdowns.
Now ur just a piece of shit.
You're living on a prayer Good luck ass!
Kristin Billitere (@SpecialKMB1969) December 29, 2016Trump is a deadly menace to this country & the world.
I hope Death comes for him next.
Laura P (@dsigningwmn) December 29, 2016@Me4Hillary throw in Pence and the rest of the cabinet and I forever promise to eat all my veggies Neolib Sheetcake (@vicsepulveda) December 29, 2016