Another Gitmo detainee returns to terror Is anyone else starting to see a pattern here?
Former Guantanamo detainee, Ibrahim Qosi, who is also known as Sheikh Khubayb al Sudani, is now an al-Qaeda leader in Yemen.April , 2012 For al-Qosi, his release will allow him to be reunited with his family.
Unlike many other prisoners, all of his immediate family are still alive.
As Paul Reichler, his Washington-based civilian attorney, who represented him pro bono for seven years, explained, He is now in his 50s, eager only to spend his life at home with his family in Sudan his mother and father, his wife and two teenage daughters, and his brothers and their families and live among them in peace, quiet and freedom.
His Pentagon-appointed defense lawyer, Navy Cmdr.
Suzanne Lachelier, noted that, last week, al-Qosi was moved to special quarters, with a flat-screen TV, a refrigerator that let him eat at his leisure and a small outdoor gravel-topped patio, all inside a locked enclosure.
Cmdr.
Lachelier added there was also a real bed rather than a steel bunk topped with a mat, but that al-Qosi slept on the floor before leaving because he suffers from a bad back.
A source with knowledge of al-Qosi s case, who does not wish to be identified, told me that the Obama administration was unwilling to detain al-Qosi after his sentence came to an end, and I believe that one of the reasons that the President negotiated a waiver to the provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act, allowing him to bypass restrictions on releasing prisoners that were imposed by Congress, was to prevent Republicans from trying to force him to continueholding al-Qosi.Summing up his client, al-Qosi s lawyer, Paul Reichler said, He is an intelligent, pious, humble and sincere individual who has endured much hardship the past 10 years.
But he returns home without hatred or rancor.
Really?
Al-Qaeda leader = peace?
The Long War Journal reported:Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) released a new video featuring a former Guantanamo detainee, Ibrahim Qosi, who is also known as Sheikh Khubayb al Sudani.In July 2010, Qosi plead guilty to charges of conspiracy and material support for terrorism before a military commission.
His plea was part of a deal in which he agreed to cooperate with prosecutors during his remaining time in US custody.
Qosi was transferred to his home country of Sudan two years later, in July 2012.Qosi joined AQAP in 2014 and became one of its leaders.
Qosi and other AQAP commanders discussed their time waging jihad at length in the video, entitled Guardians of Sharia.
Islamic scholars ensure the correctness of the jihadist project, according to Qosi.
And the war against America continues through individual jihad, which al Qaeda encourages from abroad.
Here, Qosi referred to al Qaeda s policy of encouraging attacks by individual adherents and smaller terror cells.
Indeed, AQAP s video celebrates jihadists who have acted in accordance with this call, such as the Kouachi brothers, who struck Charlie Hebdo s offices in Paris earlier this year.
The Kouachi brothers operation was sponsored by AQAP.
Via: Gateway Pundit