Donald Trump infuriates even the most compassionate and holy amongst us like the Pope, for example.
When Pope Francis was asked on Thursday how he felt about the Republican front runner, it took every ounce of the religious leader s strength not to erupt.While Francis was in Mexico, a reporter questioned the Pope about Trump s potential for president.
Francis brilliantly slammed the racist GOPer, saying that A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian.
Francis had been referencing Trump s promise to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border something that Trump has become infamous for during his campaign, along with his numerous offensive comments about immigrants.When Trump found out about what Francis said about him, he tried to shrug it off, saying, Now it s probably going to be all over the world.
Who the hell cares?
OK?
I don t care.
But he cares very much.
Thin-skinned and never one to take criticism lightly, Trump fired back at the Pope while at a campaign stop in South Carolina just hours after the pontiff was praying at the border for those who died trying to come to the United States.
Trump issued a press release stating that No leader, especially a religious leader, should have the right to question another man s religion or faith, calling Francis comments disgraceful.
Trump also added in a few jabs at President Barack Obama.
I am proud to be a Christian and as President I will not allow Christianity to be consistently attacked and weakened, unlike what is happening now, with our current President.
Unable to accept that maybe he s just a horrible guy and unequipped to be president, Trump whined that the Mexican government had soiled his reputation and turned the Pope against him so they can continue to rip off the United States, both on trade and at the border.
Clearly in a huge amount of denial, Trump said: The Pope only heard one side of the story he didn t see the crime, the drug trafficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the United States.
He doesn t see how Mexican leadership is outsmarting President Obama and our leadership in every aspect of negotiation.
Making a case for his offensive approach on immigration, Trump suggested that the Mexican government is using the Pope as a pawn and they should be ashamed of themselves for doing so, especially when so many lives are involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.
This echoes comments Trump had made last week, when he spoke against Francis plans to pray at the border, stating that the Pope was being exploited.
In an interview with Fox News, Trump said: I don t think he understands the danger of the open border that we have with Mexico.
I think Mexico got him to do it because they want to keep the border just the way it is.
They re making a fortune, and we re losing.
In his press release, The Donald also suggested that the Pope would be sorry for ever doubting him.
He said that if and when ISIS attacks the Vatican, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been president because this would not have happened.
Keep dreaming, Donald.
Featured image via Flickr / Flickr