After being found competent to stand trial following a court-ordered psychiatric evaluation, Dylann Roof has decided to ditch his attorneys and represent himself in the Charleston Massacre trial.Judge Richard M. Gergel of Federal District Court in Charleston declared Roof competent to stand on Friday.
Jury selection had been put on hold for three weeks after the defense team asked the judge to declare Roof incompetent due to mental defect.
But a psychiatric evaluation found that Roof was able to assist in his defense and understood the consequences of the proceedings.
Therefore, under the law, he was ruled competent.On Monday, things took a surprise turn when Roof petitioned the court to allow him to represent himself.
Gergel advised Roof against firing his legal team, which is led by David I. Bruck, a noted capital defense attorney.
The judge asked the defendant a series of questions to make sure he understood the ramifications of his actions.
But ultimately, after having found Roof competent, Gergel had no choice but to honor Roof s Sixth Amendment right to act as his own attorney.
I do find the defendant has the personal capacity to self-representation, Judge Gergel said.
I continue to believe it is strategically unwise, but it is a decision you have the right to make.
Although Roof will be taking the lead role in his defense, Brock and the rest of his legal team will continue to serve as standby counsel.
Jury selection has since resumed.Roof is accused of killing nine African American people at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., on June 17, 2015.
He reportedly mingled with his victims for an hour, sitting in on their bible study where they welcomed him with open arms.
He then began shouting racial slurs and pulled out a Glock pistol from his fanny pack.
He opened fire on his unsuspecting victims, killing the pastor of the church, three other ministers and five other members of the congregation.Robert Dunham, the executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, warned of the troubles defendants face when they represent themselves, especially if they have a mental illness.
Key issues never get raised because the defendant knows nothing about the law, said Dunham.
And often with mentally ill defendants whose murders were a product of their mental illness, they will attempt to justify their conduct instead of presenting evidence that their mental illness makes them less culpable.
Abraham Lincoln said, He who represents himself has a fool for a client.
While that may be true, it can also be particularly traumatic for the family when a defendant accused of slaughtering their loved ones is acting as his own attorney, as Dunham explained.
When an emotionally disturbed defendant is permitted to cross-examine those witnesses and ask questions that may be based on a delusional view of reality, it only makes things worse, Mr. Dunham said.Featured image via Grace Beahm-Pool/Getty Images