Only two days ago, Beyonce used her Super Bowl halftime show to glorify hating cops in front of millions of Americans.
Two years ago, CEO s of major companies agreed to ban guns in states where citizens are allowed to carry guns.
How long will America sit back and allow the Left to dictate the terms by which we live?
Our safety and security is slipping away and we don t appear to have too many people in DC standing up for our rights.
Meanwhile, the media seems to be perplexed over the rise of Donald Trump and Ted Cruz in the polls go figure FLASHBACK:Sept. 2014: Bakery-cafe chain Panera Bread has joined a growing list of retailers including Starbucks and Target by announcing that customers should leave their guns at home.The 1,800-outlet, $4.2 billion (market cap) company issued a brief statement on Monday after CEO Ron Shaich spoke to CNBC about the decision:Within our company, we strive to create Panera Warmth.
This warmth means bakery-cafes where customers and associates feel comfortable and welcome.
To this end, we ask that guns not be brought into this environment unless carried by an authorized law enforcement officer.
Panera respects the rights of gun owners, but asks our customers to help preserve the environment we are working to create for our guests and associates.In the weeks and months leading up to this policy announcement, Panera Bread sought advice from Michael Bloomberg-backed Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, now part of the former Mayor s $50 million Everytown nonprofit.
Panera deserves our thanks and our congratulations for taking this important step, and I applaud the company for proactively consulting Moms Demand Action as it developed and implemented its policy, said the group s founder Shannon Watts, who has herself become the focus of ire from open carry activists and the NRA in recent months following efforts to see retailers and restaurant chains change their firearms policies.Watts and her team have most recently spent six figures on an ad blitz aiming to force the hand of Kroger, the country s largest grocery store chain.
As of press time, Kroger maintained it would respect state and local laws on gun rights.
Via: Forbes February 10, 2016:ABINGDON, Md.
Two Harford County Sheriff s deputies have succumbed to their injuries after shootings at an Abingdon shopping center, officials said.Authorities said a deputy responded to a disturbance call at 11:46 a.m. Wednesday at the Panera Bread near Emmorton Road in Abingdon.
That deputy was wounded when at least one shot was fired in his direction, Harford County Sheriff Jeffrey Gahler said.
Gahler said restaurant witnesses gave good information as to which way the shooter went.
A second responding deputy found the suspect, and shots were fired again, injuring the second deputy.
We believe the deputies were shot by the same suspect, Gahler said.
(The shooter) just took out his gun and shot him in the head right after the officer asked him, How s your day?
witness Sophia Faulkner said.Two additional deputies, who responded to the initial shooting, fired rounds, and a short time later, the suspect was killed, Gahler said.
The suspect was identified as 67-year-old David Evans, Gahler said.
We know that there were two warrants for his arrest, Gahler said.
We believe we were sent (to Panera Bread), because someone knew who he was.
Police said Evans had two open warrants in two states.
Evans had a criminal warrant in Florida for assaulting a police officer and fleeing and eluding police.
In Harford County, Evans had an open civil warrant.A loaded handgun was found with Evans after the shootout, Gahler said.
We are not looking for anyone else, Gahler said.
There is no longer a threat to the community.
The two deputies involved in shooting the suspect were placed on administrative leave, per agency protocol pending a completed investigation, Gahler said.SkyTeam 11 Capt.
Roy Taylor reported that at least one deputy was airlifted to Shock Trauma.
The other deputy was taken to University of Maryland Upper Chesapeake Medical Center in Bel Air.
During a news conference Wednesday evening, Gahler said both deputies succumbed to their injuries.
Today s a sad day for the Harford County Sheriff s Office and the citizens of Harford County, who we are sworn to serve.
It s with great sadness that I tell you both deputies who were shot earlier today have succumbed to their injuries.
One of our deputies was a 30-year veteran of this agency, served in the Court Services Division.
The other deputy had served this agency for the last 16 years and was assigned to the Community Services Division.
I would ask you at this time to please respect the families privacy as they go through the period of grieving.
I ve met with both families.
I still have to go to Upper Chesapeake.
Obviously, I don t think I have to tell anybody.
There s no words to describe what they are going through right now, Gahler said.
Anytime law enforcement or first responders lose their lives in the line of duty, it is a tragedy and today s violence in Abingdon and the deaths of two Harford County sheriff s deputies is nothing less than absolutely heartbreaking, Gov.
Larry Hogan said.