America will have a fascist in the White House starting on January 20th, and this Irish senator can t believe his own government is accepting that.Despite warnings from experts in the media, historians, and Jews who survived the Holocaust, Americans went to the polls and elected a fascist anyway, disgracing all the soldiers who fought and died during World War II to keep fascism out of America and sweep it out of Europe.After winning, Trump has received congratulation messages from nations around the globe.
Some nations have even kissed Trump s ass, which pissed off Irish Senator Aodh n O Riord in to the point where he ripped his government for sucking up to a fascist.
America has just elected a fascist and the best thing that the good people in Ireland can do is to ring him up and ask him, is it OK to still bring the shamrock on Saint Patrick s Day?
I am embarrassed by the reaction of the Irish government to what has happened in America.
I can t believe the reaction from An Taoiseach and from the government.
O Riord in then went on a tear listing some of the aspects of fascism.
I don t use the term fascist lightly.
What else would you call someone who threatens to imprison his political opponents.
What else would you call somebody who threatens to not allow people of a certain political faith into their country.
What would you say, or what would you call somebody who was threatening to deport 10 million people.
He also warned his government that right-wing extremism is rising across Europe and the United States.
Can the government not understand what s happening?
We are at an ugly international crossroads.
What s happening in Britain is appalling.
What s happening across Europe is appalling.
It has echoes from the 1930s.
And America, the most powerful country in the world, has just elected a fascist!
He then called for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to explain how Ireland intends to deal with monster Trump and said Ireland s support should be conditional like Germany s. Germany and America are connected by values of democracy, freedom and respect for the law and dignity of man, Angela Merkel said in a message to Trump.
Independent of origin, skin-color, religion, gender, sexual orientation or political views.
I offer the next president of the United States close cooperation on the basis of these values.
Here s the video via The Irish Independent.Donald Trump and the Republican Party are the enemies of everything that is good in this world.
Trump has no right to call for unity when he spent a year and a half dividing Americans with hate, ignorance, fear, racism, and sexism.
He is an impending disaster and we will see suffering under his tyranny.Featured image via screenshot