In a nation so rich with Muslim rapists diversity, this moderate Muslim will likely be able to move right back into his previous job of admonishing Islamaphobes if things don t pan out for him in the raping and beheading business Michael Nikolai Skr mo aka Abo Ibrahim Al Swedi probably didn t need a job.
He was trained as a chef before he converted to Islam.The 29-year-old Swede, who today calls himself Abdul Samad al Swedi , grew up in Gothenburg.
He converted to Islam during a field trip to Egypt about ten years ago and has since been engaged in a series of tax-funded Muslim organizations.In 2009 he was invited to SVT, where he told Swedish viewers how Muslim phobia (Islamophobia) and hatred was spread around Europe.Previously, the Swede have been heavily involved to counter what he described as a misleading picture of Muslims as violent fanatics.
In an episode of SVT debate, which can be seen on Youtube, he attacked the malicious picture of Muslims spread in Europe.
This fear is based on ignorance of Islam, Michael Skr mo said.Obviously.
If only people truly knew what Islam was.As a lecturer Abdul Samad has mainly been active in the radical Bellevue Mosque in Gothenburg.
There he held a series of sermons on the association Multicultural Youth Center (MKUC), notorious for four youth leaders of the Association, including president of the association , once armed with knives attempted to attack Lars Vilks in an art event at Red Rock in Gothenburg.
It is worth noting that sermons should have been co-arranged with the wide Muslim educational association Ibn Rushd.
Abdul Samad has also been linked to the Swedish Federation of Muslims , also a compound of radical preachers, located at the Bellevue Mosque.Michael Skr mo, 29, took the whole family his little four children and wife to the IS-controlled area inside Syria.
Now Skr mo filmed a propaganda video outside the Syrian city Kobane where he preaches jihad and calls Swedish jihadists to leave Sweden and join the holy war .
My brothers, hijra (migration) and jihad are so simple.
It only costs a few thousand lapp [Swedish kronor], he says in Swedish.
Do you not wish in in your heart to fight and show God what you have to offer him?
The door to jihad is standing there waiting for you.
It s the fastest way to Jannah [Paradise].
According to Sweden s Expressen newspaper, he converted to Islam in 2005, after which he travelled widely in the Islamic world, learning Arabic and studying the religion.At the end of the video, Skr mo becomes more emotional.
I want you to be here with me.
I want us to hang out in Jannah.
My wonderful brothers, take this decision, trust in Allah, sacrificing your money and your life for Allah, and you will receive the highest from Allah Via: Frontpage Magazine