Bad news for Donald Trump!
Despite his objections, workers at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, just delivered a huge f*ck you to The Donald with the assistance of the National Labor Relations Board.
Since the employees voted to unionize in December, Trump has been fighting racist tooth and Islamophobic nail against the idea that workers deserve some modicum of self-determination but it seems that even his huge hands were not enough to stop the NLRB from officially certifying the union.This comes after numerous dirty tricks, including the use of scare tactics and ironic attempts to convince the Board to throw out the workers vote because employees were allegedly intimidated into agreeing to unionize in the first place.
But, of course, it was Trump s goons doing the intimidating: They pressured us a lot [to vote no], housekeeper Marisela Olvera told ThinkProgress.
They told us the union only wants our money, that if we supported the union we d lose our jobs, that the company would put our names on a blacklist and no other hotels in Las Vegas would hire us.
They told us to think of what our children would do if we were out of work.
Everyone was very stressed.
People were afraid.
But bendito sea Di s, we still won, even with all that pressure.
Now, Think Progress reports that (with Trump s appeal going about as well as his attempts to win over anyone who isn t a white, straight Christian male) workers are demanding that management tuck its tail between its legs, sit down with them like adults, and work out a contract.
We re just waiting for a contract, housekeeper Maria Jaramillo told the publication.
We deserve one.
We re not second-class workers.
So we re here, waiting for him.
Unfortunately, they may have to wait a while longer.
Management says they intend to appeal the Labor Board s decision:Jaramillo and her coworkers then formed a bargaining committee, hoping that management would soon recognize their union and begin negotiating with them.
But the Trump hotel signaled this week that they have no intention of doing so.
We will continue our fight to ensure a fair election for our valued associates, many of whom vigorously oppose union representation, said Jill Martin, an attorney for The Trump Organization, in a statement to reporters.
The hearing officer s recommendations erroneously disregarded the severe misconduct undertaken by Union agents, which clearly impacted an incredibly close election.
Trump management has until next week to formally challenge the NLRB recommendation, and then the Board s regional chapter will determine whether or not to certify the union.
Even if the local board backs the workers, Trump can further delay by appealing their ruling to the federal board in Washington, D.C. Mr. Trump is a very good business man, linens worker Rosebert Donato told ThinkProgress, apparently using a loose definition of both good and businessman.
Donoto hopes Trump will grow up, put on his big boy pants, and sit down to discuss things with the workers.
He says he wants to make America great, Olvera says.
Well, he should start here in his own house, his own business.
He always brags about how he has millions and millions and millions of dollars, but he pays his workers less than most in Las Vegas.
Featured image via Getty/Isaac Brekken