CNN host Jake Tapper went nuclear on Kellyanne Conway this Sunday.The intelligence community has confirmed that Vladimir Putin ordered Russian hackers to interfere with our election to help Donald Trump win.
Through propaganda and documents stolen from the DNC, Russia gave Trump information that he encouraged them to search for all while withholding information hacked from the RNC.The information went to Wikileaks, which published it, and Trump repeatedly cited Wikileaks on the campaign trail.During an interview on CNN, Tapper confronted Trump mouthpiece Kellyanne Conway with video of Trump using what Wikileaks provided to attack Hillary Clinton, clearly demonstrating that Trump benefited from Russian espionage.
If you listen to what Mr. Trump had to say on the stump all the time, he invoked Wikileaks dozens and dozens of times to try to suggest that the Wikileaks said that there were things that Hillary Clinton was doing or had done that were untoward, Tapper began.
So I guess what I m confused about is how can you say that the hacking had no impact on the election when Mr. Trump kept invoking Wikileaks, which was printing, publishing things that the Russians had hacked?
he continued.
Obviously he thought it was going to have an effect on the election.
Faced with the reality that Trump opened his mouth a lot on camera, Conway tried to downplay the seriousness of the breach.
Well, it had an effect on his debate answer and it had an effect on the Clinton campaign because it was quite embarrassing to watch her closest advisers question her judgment and question whether she would ever find her voice and wondering allowed why she was testing 84 slogans to find out who she was and what she had won on.
This guy had make America great again and never change.
That s very embarrassing, them calling Chelsea Clinton, a spoiled brat.
That s very uncomfortable but that s what was hacked.
But why invoke all those Wikileaks that were the work of Russian intelligence, Tapper asked again, refusing to let Conway bullshit her way out of answering the question.Conway then claimed that Trump didn t know who the source of the hacks was at the time, which is a lie because Trump was asked to address the hacking in July and he asks the Russian to keep doing it.Once again, Tapper nailed Conway to the wall with the facts.
But you are trying to change public impressions of Hillary Clinton, right?
Tapper asked.
Mr. Trump and you and others were trying to make an argument against Hillary Clinton using the work of Wikileaks.
And Conway responded by claiming that Trump was going to win whether Russia and Wikileaks helped him or not.
And we all know that is complete bullshit.Here s the video via VidMe.The fact is that Russia helped Donald Trump smear Hillary Clinton with lies and he is an illegitimate president-elect because of it.
This country should not be holding an inauguration on January 20th, we should be holding a new election.Featured image via screenshot