There are at least two votes on which Donald Trump can t count in the New York primary the daughter he badly wants to f*ck and his son, Eric.
This might seem crazy at first after all, Ivanka has been campaigning hard for daddy, and Eric Trump appeared alongside his brother as the latter offered to ship their father s black critics out of the country.
But as crazy as it seems, it is true.The state of New York has incredibly strict voter registration laws ones that promise to create issues for people of both parties.
As with many states, New York operates on a closed primary system.
Simply put, you cannot vote in a party s primary unless you are registered with that party.
Normally, simply switching parties would solve the issue nicely, but the Empire State has the earliest change-of-party deadline in the country October 9 (of last year), which is six months before the primary election.Yahoo News reports that both Eric and Ivanka are not registered as Republicans in the state:Donald Trump s three oldest children have campaigned with their father and served as surrogates during the presidential race.
But only one of them is actually a member of the party Trump hopes to lead.Records from the New York State Board of Elections show that neither Ivanka Trump nor Eric Trump is enrolled in a political party.
Trump s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., is a Republican.In other words, only the son who actively courted white supremacists on behalf of his father is able to vote for him in the upcoming primary.
Sure, they support him, but it has to be humiliating for The Donald that two of his oldest children will not be casting a ballot for him.Registration for new voters in New York is more lenient, with a deadline of March 25 but even if Ivanka and Eric are unregistered, it is still too late for them to cast a vote for The Annoying Orange.This could also be bad news for Bernie Sanders, who has been swiftly closing the gap between himself and Hillary Clinton in the state.
Since he has been converting people of varying political persuasions since he announced his candidacy, it is likely that many of his supporters will not be able to cast a ballot for him.
Think Progress reports:When it comes to New York s fast-approaching presidential primary election, Lerner said potential voters from both parties would likely be impacted by New York s strict election rules.
But she said that people voting for the two non-establishment candidates Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and billionaire Donald Trump would bear the brunt of the confusion.
That s because voters for those candidates were more likely to have been previously unaffiliated with a political party, or more likely to have wanted to switch parties to vote for their preferred candidate.Sanders supporters even set up a page back in October raising the alarm about the change-of-party deadline for independents and voters registered with more liberal factions like the Green Party or the Liberal Party.So far, it seems true that non-establishment candidates like Trump and Sanders tend to do better in open primaries, where people can vote in whichever party s primary they choose.Both Sanders and Trump stand to take a hard hit from New York s strict party-switching regulations, though he is sure to be a hit among first-time voters, who registered in record numbers in New York this year.
The full impact of already-registered voters who wanted to switch parties to vote for the candidate of their choice remains to be seen, but one thing is certain Trump s kids will be sitting this primary out.Featured Image via Getty/Jeff J. Michael