You know what scares Republicans more than black people voting in elections?
An army of women exercising their rights.
For quite some time, the right wing has been on the attack against Planned Parenthood, and now the women s health organization is fighting back in the best way possible: by, as they say, working to engage historically disenfranchised communities.
On Friday, Planned Parenthood announced that it will begin registering voters at its clinics, on college campuses, and at other locations, regardless of their background, beliefs, or political ideology.
In other words, they don t care if a woman is exercising her right to have an abortion or is standing outside holding signs and spewing threats at people who enter their facilities.
They just want more people to vote.
If we can t all participate in our government, we all get cheated, Anna Keene, a Planned Parenthood spokeswoman, told the Huffington Post.
We re launching the My Vote, My Voice campaign to help ensure that every voice is heard and every vote is counted in communities across the country.
No matter what your political beliefs are, if you don t or can t vote, then you can t elect officials who will keep your best interests in mind.
While the campaign itself aims to register any voters, it is unlikely that conservatives will allow themselves to be registered by Planned Parenthood.
Since the organization attracts the young, low-income people, and people of color all groups that are more likely to support Democrats.
The launch of the program is tied to the 51st anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, a 1965 law that once protected the rights of African-Americans to vote before the conservative-heavy Supreme Court gutted it in 2013.
Our purpose is to engage historically disenfranchised communities, Erin Carhart, Planned Parenthood manager of youth organizing, explained.
Our hope is to encourage folks to participate in democracy.
This is just one more reason Republicans will continue their desperate and nonsensical attempts to close Planned Parenthood clinics nationwide.
Not only will they be enabling women to make the healthcare choices that are right for their individual circumstances, but the organzation will be creating more and more voters who will be likely to vote BLUE in November.
Make sure you join them at the polls.If you d like to register to vote, click the following link.Featured image via PBS