My husband and I sat in a restaurant booth last night in Michigan and listened to group of college administrators talking about how best to address sexual fluidity in the classroom.
I heard words like binary and confused and in search of sexual identity being thrown around as if they were the most important issues college kids are facing today.
There was no mention of academics, it was all about a ensuring the faculty was in-tune and sensitive to their student s sexual identity.
I was barely able to digest my food after listening to these administrators discussing what was of utmost importance to them in the college environment.
I am more grateful than ever for conservative students like Grant Strobl, who are boldly standing up to the idiocy of political correctness .especially in my home state of Michigan A new policy at the University of Michigan allows students to choose their preferred pronouns including the gender-neutral they and ze to appear on class rosters.With that in mind, one conservative student, Grant Strobl, who is also chairman of the Young Americans for Freedom board of governors, decided to troll the university administration by officially requesting his pronoun to be changed to His Majesty.
And it worked!Although Storbl says he has no problem with students asking to be identified a certain way, he thought it important to show just how ludicrous it is for universities to institutionalize the use of arbitrary pronouns and threaten disciplinary action if students and staff repeatedly fail to use them.
I henceforth shall be referred to as: His Majesty, Grant Strobl.
I encourage all U-M students to go onto Wolverine Access, and insert the identity of their dreams he told the College Fix.University of Michigan now allowing students to choose preferred pronouns, prompting student to troll school by choosing His Majesty.
pic.twitter.com/n7po5mwTAo Fox News (@FoxNews) September 30, 2016The university vice president and provost of student life said employing preferred pronouns was one of the most basic ways to show your respect for their identity and to cultivate an environment that respects all gender identities.
Students can now add or change their preferred pronouns, and the changes will only be shared with those who have a legitimate education interest in this information, according to the new website.Since the announcement, several students have followed Srobl s example, registering an array of of regal pronouns.
Via: Heat Street