As if Donald Trump isn t paranoid and delusional enough on his own, one of the people who carries a lot of influence with 45 is one of the most certifiably insane (in my amateur opinion) people to ever hit the airwaves, rabid right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones.
Jones is now advising Trump to use violence against those who oppose him, and the frightening thing is, Trump could listen.On his YouTube channel show on Monday, Jones fed into Trump s ridiculous conspiracy theory that his offices were wiretapped by President Obama.And I feel so sorry for people that can t see it, that have been caught by this weird demon spirit of the age, to just go along with evil and corruption and just thank god, Mr. President, that we re not the scumbag Obama, the loser of eight years, the failure.
Now who thinks he can be the big community organizer down the street from you, who brags it s his plan to bring you down.
Then The New York Times acts like it s not true.
Codify the data each day, go after them with their own words.
Hold up where they admit they were wiretapping your Trump Tower and then show The New York Times saying they re not doing it, just like you have been doing it, and they will fall.There were even more paranoid rantings, but the bottom line was that Trump should kill all his enemies before they take him down:They re going to destroy you, they re going to destroy Barron, they re going to destroy Eric, they re going to destroy Donald Jr., they re going destroy me, they re going to destroy Matt Drudge, they re going to destroy Ron Paul, they re going to destroy anybody like [White House senior adviser] Stephen Bannon that actually stood up for the little people, because that example can t be allowed.
Because if you let one ant stand up, they might all stand up, and those little ants outnumber the parasites 1000 to one.
If they want a war, let s let them have it.
Now they re getting their ass kicked in the economy, your approval ratings are going up.
Sir, they don t care.
They re going to intimidate and pay off and roll people in your second-level operation to try to burn you.
You must go on the offense.
This is war.
You think George Washington kicked the Redcoats ass just with information?
No.Source: Media MattersThen, with no irony at all, he accused Trump s opponents of being funded by the Russians.Here s the audio:Most people would just dismiss Jones s words as the rantings of a lunatic, which they are, but Trump loves Jones.
Along with Breitbart (where Trump got the wiretap story to begin with) and other assorted right-wing sources, Jones is one of the people Trump relies upon to get information.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images