A cowardly Republican gave a racist excuse for why he doesn t want to face his constituents at a town hall.As angry Americans show up to town halls to give their Republican representatives hell over their obsession with repealing the Affordable Care Act, an Illinois Republican has decided that he doesn t care about his constituents enough to take criticism from them in person.Rep.
Mike Bost has been largely ducking his constituents by holding tele-town halls that they aren t informed about until the last minute, which means not a lot of people are able to participate.
Those that do are dedicated supporters who will agree with everything Bost says without any push back whatsoever.
The in-person ones going on around the United States right now are out of control, which means you don t actually get to talk to people and listen, and we re looking for ways to do that, Bost told The Southern Illinoisan.And then Bost made a racist comparison to describe the angry people who are attending town halls.
The amount of time that I have at home is minimal, I need to make sure that it s productive.
You know the cleansing that the Orientals used to do where you d put one person out in front and 900 people yell at them?
That s not what we need.
We need to have meetings with people that are productive.
I m not going to have the public town hall meetings, in that respect, because I am busy trying to work on the issue, Bost continued.
If all you want to do is stand and yell at me we re not going back and forth.
What Bost wants is a town hall where he won t be criticized and won t have to answer the criticism.
You know, because Bost and Republicans like him are snowflakes who want to pretend that everyone likes them and what they are doing in Congress.Republicans know that repealing the Affordable Care Act is getting more and more unpopular as their own constituents begin to realize that they will lose their own healthcare.To explain the anger at town halls, Republicans have falsely portrayed their own constituents as out-of-state paid protesters rather than admit that they are wrong to repeal the landmark healthcare program.But as Republicans continue to duck their voters they will only make them angrier in the long run.
When the 2018 midterm election comes around they won t be able to avoid the voice of the people then.
And they will discover quickly that they made a huge mistake by not facing their constituents when they had a chance.Featured image via St. Louis Public Radio