Emma Watson has been in the news lately and it s not because of her acting.
She s a staunch feminist and a human rights activist, taking a strong position on the rights of refugees.
She recently made news when she gave an extraordinary speech at the United Nations, advocating for the rights of women around the world.
She also recently tweeted in solidarity with the refugees coming to Europe in search for safety after years of war and torment in Syria.That was more than enough for anti-feminist and anti-refugee trolls to attack Thomson by using her humanitarianism against her.
There is a petition circulating that challenges Watson to live in a camp in Calais, France.
Entitled Spend one week in a Calais migrant camp for feminism (without bodyguards), the petition states: In order to show how safe current migration is to Europe, particularly regarding the cause of feminism (I reject wholeheartedly the notion that North African and Middle Eastern migrants are unsafe, and rapists), Emma Watson should spend a week s holiday in a Calais migrant camp, without guards of course, to show how safe, and how pro feminism these migrants are.
It all started with one simple humanitarian tweet:#refugeeswelcome Emma Watson (@EmWatson) September 7, 2015The tweet has since garnered plenty of responses for and against Watson s stance.
Some ignorant people have chosen to lump all the refugees into a single category by citing the attacks on France:Remember this @EmWatson?
#RefugeesWelcome They killed innocent people in #Paris, Emma.
How do you sleep at night?
pic.twitter.com/LYqfoWuh4i JEB DELENDA EST (@rsmccain) November 15, 2015Others however, have shown support:@rsmccain @EmWatson if we abandon the innocent refugees we abandon compassion and create more extremists Chris France (@france_chris) November 15, 2015Since the petition was created a week ago, over 12,000 people have signed it with 15,000 being the goal.
Here s what a troll had to say about Watson: Ever since she was invited to give a widely praised speech at the UN on the topic, she has become a poster girl of modern feminism.
Her simultaneous embrace of female equality, mass migration and the misogynistic non-western cultures brought with it, is widely seen as typical of left wing activists today.
In this context, the petition can be interpreted as an expression of frustration with the contradictions of modern liberal feminism, rather than merely a personal attack on Ms. Watson.
Watson, who is best known for her role as Hermione in the Harry Potter films, was made a Goodwill Women s Ambassador by the United Nations in 2014 and has been passionately using her platform to advocate for the betterment of humanity.
At only 24 years old, she s already making a difference.
We need more people like Emma Watson and we need to support her.Featured Image Via Wikimedia Commons.