It looks as though there are still men who think forcing themselves on women should be perfectly acceptable.
There are clearly also still men who feel the need to defend men who force themselves on other women, and speak out against programs that require consent.Yes, folks.
This is the United States of America in the year 2016.On Thursday, Fox News Business host Stuart Varney had fellow Fox flunky Andrew Napolitano on to discuss the yes means yes movement and Harvard s secret society of all-male clubs who stated that women can t be involved because men can keep it in their pants.
I m sorry, because the men may be falsely accused of sexual assault.
And because men may go after women, it s best to just continue the tradition of keeping women as second-rate and exclude them from the clubs.And of course, Varney completely agreed with Harvard: They are faced with the possibility of admitting women or are forced to admit women then they are therefore increasing the likelihood of a lawsuit.
Because if a man in this day in age holds the hand of a woman on a date without first asking permission, that is an assault.
In come the lawyers.
Yeah, making light of rape is always a wise thing to do.
For f*cks sake.Varney apparently thinks, the real story here now is, the law is now controlling intimate relationships between men and women.
Lawyers [and] the law should not be in the middle of an intimate dating relationship between the sexes.
Yes, women, stay quiet and let men have their way with you.
Stupid lawyers and their wanting to uphold the law, keeping women safe and holding abusers accountable.Varney then goes on to complain about how no means no has turned into yes means yes because clearly getting consent in the affirmative is an overwhelming concept for him.Then Napolitano agrees with him, saying that the whole thing is insane, and thinks that not every un-consented to touching is any of the business of the government.
Adding: I can t imagine that the failure to say yes is a criminal assault.
Actually, Andrew that s exactly what it is.The fact that these men are sitting here and defending unconsented touch is not only deplorable, but horrific.
If they want to be able to force themselves on women, they should at least be forced out of a job.
What say you, Fox News?Featured image via video screen capture/ HT: Raw Story