There s often much debate about the use of the n-word in any of its forms.
You hear in rap music, or just among black folks as a term of familiarity in some black culture circles.
This debate has been brought to light once again by Larry Wilmore s comedy routine at the White House Correspondents Dinner.
The comedian finished his bit by saying directly to President Obama: Yo, Barry.
You did it, my n*gga.
Well, there was one member of the black media who did not appreciate Wilmore s remarks, and he went on CNN with host Don Lemon to say so.
SiriusXM host Joe Madison said of Wilmore: Can you imagine if the K word would have been used to describe Bernie Sanders?
The thing is, though that is not an accurate comparison.
Most people don t even know what the K-Word is.
For the record, it is an anti-Jewish slur.
The word is Kike.
Jewish people have never included this word in their own culture without it being a million percent offensive in any context.
The same cannot be said for the n-word.
Now, do I use it in any context?
No.
Absolutely not.
I m black, but I despise that word for my own reasons.
However, I do understand that there are contexts within Black circles where it is a term of endearment and is completely appropriate.
This one of them.Madison went on to say that it was a sad occasion that after 8 years of this dinner, that s the last word that this distinguished group of people will hear in relation to this president.
The second guest in the debate, April Reign, said that Madison was misguided on this one.
She put it perfectly when she said that black folks need to stop worrying about the white gaze in response to such things.
The thing is, worrying about what white folks think will get you far in life, because we live in such a racist society.
However, playing that hand is, in and of itself, racist.
Reign also went on to point out the obvious, which is that President Obama appreciated what Larry Wilmore said.
I am sure he did.
People do not like to admit it, but almost every minority you can think of has its own culture where its people are more comfortable.
I know that I am, for example, much more comfortable in a gay bar than I could ever be in a straight club.
Know why?
Because those are my people.
They get it.
They get the experience.
The same goes for how I feel with a bunch of black folks versus being with a bunch white folks.
I am sure President Obama appreciated the cultural significance of what Larry Wilmore said, because for the last eight years he s not be able to be with his own people.Joe Madison and everyone else taking issue with Wilmore s routine really need to see themselves for what they are: Uncle Toms who want to distance themselves from black culture, which is seriously just a damn shame.Watch the video below:https://youtu.be/BK7k5kJEmxEFeatured image via video screen capture