Hillary Clinton is a Planned Parenthood s champion.
She was greeted like a rock star at the Planned Parenthood Action Fund event in June, 2016.
She mocked Donald Trump s defense of life, while highlighting her undying support for destroying the life of the most vulnerable.
She s been bending over backwards to pander to Blacks for their votes, while trying desperately to gain the confidence of the Black Lives Matter movement.
But isn t Hillary s concern for Black lives just another one of her lies?
She is the darling of Planned Parenthood after all, and their stated goal has always been to kill off the Black population?
Finally, a prominent Black professional athlete is speaking out and telling the truth about the true intentions of this killing machine for profit.Christian NFL player Ben Watson does not hesitate to call out Planned Parenthood s targeting of minority women and their babies for abortions.In a recent interview with Turning Point Pregnancy Resource Center in San Diego, the Baltimore Ravens player talked about the racial divide in America and how it factors into the abortion issue.
abortion saddens me period, but it seems to be something that is really pushed on minorities and provided to minorities especially as something that they should do, Watson said.He pointed to Planned Parenthood s founder Margaret Sanger and her eugenic push to exterminate people she deemed unfit.
Today, it s working, Watson said.
We sit here and talk about advancing the black agenda, whatever that means, we talk about our interests, and what s important to us like having political power and advancement and all those things and then we are turning around and we are killing our children, Watson continued.
And we are buying the lie that it s our personal decision to make.
Here s Hillary Clinton slamming Donald Trump over his defense of life and her willingness to destroy it at a Planned Parenthood event:The NFL star said he is sympathetic to the women who are struggling with an unplanned pregnancy.
But Watson, a husband and father of five children, said many men are not stepping up to help their children and the women in their lives like they should.
He urged men to take responsibility for their actions.
He need to be there to support her through the physical changes of the pregnancy, and help and provide emotional strength, and do it together, Watson continued.
As much as he has a role in making the baby in the first place, it needs to take both of them the whole way through.
Sometimes, Watson said he does have the opportunity to talk with other NFL players about abortion and his pro-life convictions.
Just like in almost any career setting, Watson said they talk about many different things, including politics and religion.
You ve got guys that consider themselves Conservative and pro-life, and you ve got guys that consider themselves Liberal and pro-choice, and it kind of goes back and forth, he said.
What I love is that in most of the situations I have been in, not all of them, but most, even if we sometimes talk abrasively to each other, we still have love for each other.
Last year, after the Center for Medical Progress began releasing its undercover Planned Parenthood videos, Watson wasn t shy about speaking up for unborn babies either.He posted on his Facebook wall:As horrific as it is, the issue isn t really the sale of human parts.
It s the legal practice that allows this to even be a possibility.
Killing children and simply discarding the leftovers is not any more acceptable than profiting off of them.
#PlannedParenthood Asked if he has faced backlash for his stance, Watson told Turning Point, I won t say I m not afraid, and I will say that I ve received some flack for some of the things I ve said I decided that you know, if the spirit of God has prompted me to say something, I m gonna trust in God and say it.
Via: Life News