As we are watching names being floated as part of Donald Trump s cabinet, it seems our greatest nightmares are beginning to unfold.
The names being bandied about include Rudy Giuliani, who s never met a young black man he didn t think was a criminal, Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan Chase and of crashing the economy fame, a Goldman Sachs exec, Sarah Palin and now, a puppy hater.
Yes, a puppy hater.According to Politico, the top name for the Secretary of the Interior (the person in charge of the national parks and other public lands) is an oilman named Forrest Lucas.
The San Francisco Gate also notes that other contenders include Sarah Palin, Arizona Governor Jan Brewer and Donald Trump Jr., who loves to trophy hunt.All of those picks would be disastrous for the environment, but Lucas is in a league of his own.
He s the 74-year-old founder of Lucas Oil Products.
He s also hated by animal rights activists.
The victims of his financial attacks include the Humane Society, The Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.
He s also a fan of puppy mills.He has defended puppy mills, circuses, animal agriculture and trophy hunting.
A nonprofit that he founded and bankrolled produced the feature film The Dog Lover, which portrays dog breeders and puppy mills as victims of animal-rights agencies who aren t REALLY interested in animal welfare.
A review of the movie on Roger Ebert s website called it shamelessly manipulative and a pretty bald piece of anti-SPCA and/or PETA propaganda.
This is what the Humane Society says about Lucas:In 2010, Forrest Lucas spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to bankroll the opposition to Proposition B in Missouri, which voters approved to set common-sense standards for the care of dogs in large-scale commercial breeding operations (their statement against Prop B can be found here).
Lucas then supported an effort in the Missouri legislature to weaken and repeal parts of the voter-approved measure, before it even had a chance to take effect.In 2012, Forrest Lucas spent more than a quarter-million dollars opposing Measure 5 in North Dakota, which sought to establish felony-level penalties for malicious cruelty to dogs, cats and horses.In 2013, Protect the Harvest lobbied against a local ordinance in Harrison County, Indiana, to promote the spaying and neutering of pets and help reduce pet overpopulation, and in Crawford County, Indiana, to provide adequate shelter for dogs and protect them from the elements.Trump has made his views on regulation very clear.
Trump, to our knowledge, has never had a pet.
That may or may not be a big deal to you, but he once posted a press release that complained about regulations that protect the safety of dog food.It s becoming increasingly clear that Donald Trump only cares about protecting his fortune and the fortunes of his ilk.
He won t care if people lose health insurance or if seniors lose Social Security.
He won t care if the nation loses its precious public lands or if the environment goes to hell.
Trump ran for president for Trump.
Humans, dogs, plants and other animals can get screwed.Featured image via Lucas Oil propaganda video screen capture