One of the most disturbing things about extremist Christian holy rollers is how they prize the virginity of women.
It s misogynist, it s gross, and it needs to stop.
That likely won t be happening any time soon, though and boy have we got proof of that sad fact for you.Christianity Today is in full-blown damage control mode after they let an absolutely disgusting advertisement run that a man submitted regarding his single 26-year-old daughter.
You see, the man was looking for a husband for his daughter.
The advertisement he sent to the magazine said: Her: godly, gorgeous, athletic, educated, careered, humorous, travelled, bilingual, 26-year-old virgin.
You: unworthy, though becoming less so daily.
Christianity Today is sorry they let the ad run, and one of their editors, Mark Galli said to The Daily Beast: We want everything in our magazine to reflect beautiful orthodoxy, and this ad did not.
We have taken a hard look at our ad review process, made some changes, and we can assure our readers that no ad like this will appear again.
The poor woman whose father saw fit to advertise for a husband for her in a creepy religious publication and wave the fact that she is in her mid-twenties and a virgin around like that was something to be extremely proud of also happens to be a blogger.
While the ad included her blog s URL, we will not be doing that here, lest other creepy misogynists try to hit her up.
Further, she was smart enough not to make the blog public.
Also, the woman, called Rachel, is not too torn up over it, and seems to be okay.
She wrote of her fathers gross antics: I m just nervous if this doesn t work out, next I ll find my face plastered on a billboard.
Oh gosh, now I m giving him ideas.
The prizing of virginity is one of the most gross, inappropriate, and misogynist parts of Abrahamic religions.
Just another reason to question these people and their idea of what morality is.Get out of that cult of a religion, Rachel, while you still can.
Good luck to you you ll definitely need it.Featured image via Flickr