Does anyone really think Hillary Clinton will come clean about ANYTHING?
She dug herself such a huge hole that I could see her digging an even deeper one to get herself in the clear.
She s going to lie you know it.Gowdy had this to say today about the possibility of retrieving some of Hillary s e-mails:House Select Committee on Benghazi Chairman Trey Gowdy said Tuesday it may still be technically possible to retrieve thousands of emails to and from former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on the private server her lawyer said was wiped clean.
BENGHAZI PANEL CALLS HILLARY TO TESTIFYA House panel Tuesday formally requested Hillary Clinton to testify about the private server and email account she used while serving as secretary of state.Rep.
Trey Gowdy, chairman of the Select Committee on Benghazi, sent a request to Clinton s personal attorney, David E. Kendall, requesting that Clinton appear before the committee no later than May 1 for a transcribed interview about the server and email.The request comes after Kendall told Gowdy that the server had been wiped clean and that it would be impossible to recover the 30,000 emails Clinton deleted last year.Gowdy, in his request to Kendall, also asked Clinton to reconsider her refusal to turn over the server to a neutral third party, which he called highly unusual, if not unprecedented.
Clinton said she only deleted personal emails and turned over every work-related message to the State Department, which is reviewing the data to filter out classified information.
Because of the Secretary s unique arrangement with herself as it relates to public records during and after her tenure as Secretary of State.
Gowdy wrote, this Committee is left with no alternative but to request Secretary Clinton appear before this Committee for a transcribed interview to better understand decisions the Secretary made relevant to the creation, maintenance, retention, and ultimately deletion of public records.
WHAT S THERE TO REVIEW??
?As you read the following media report it is important to remember: Hillary Clinton has previously stated, unequivocally, that no classified communication traveled through her self-created personal communication network.So what exactly is there to review?
Either the U.S. government believes the statements by the Secretary of State to be true, or they do not.Second, the government knowingly allowed the secret communication network to exist and allowed all the construction issues therein to take place.
Therefore the burden of any administrative compliance issue should reside upon them to reconcile expeditiously.The Obama administration told a federal court Monday that it needs several months more to go through former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton s government emails, saying it s proving time-consuming to sort out exactly what information they can release to the public,Justice Department lawyers also bristled at accusations that the government perpetrated a fraud by hiding the existence of the emails, as Mr. Obama s team begins to fully grapple with the legal complications Mrs. Clinton has left them.Read more: Washington Examiner