Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell shut down Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren during a Senate floor speech on Tuesday, accusing the Democrat of violating Senate rules by criticizing their colleague and attorney general nominee, Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions.Warren was warned early on in her remarks by Montana Sen. Steve Daines, the Republican overseeing the floor speeches, after she quoted Coretta Scott King, the late widow of Martin Luther King, Jr.Warren quoted King asserting that Sessions had exhibited so much hostility to the enforcement of voting rights laws for blacks.Daines struck his gavel and reprimanded Warren, who is one of a handful of Democrats who plan an all-night Senate floor session to oppose the Trump nominee.
The senator is reminded that it is a violation of Rule 19 of the standing rules of the Senate to impute to another senator or senators any conduct or motive unworthy or becoming a senator, Daines said.Around 20 minutes later, McConnell interrupted Warren s speech to invoke Rule 19.
The senator has impugned the motives and conduct of our colleague from Alabama as warned by the chair, said McConnell.
Senator Warren, quote, said Senator Sessions has used the awesome power of his office to chill the free exercise of the vote of black citizens.
I call the senator to order under the provisions of Rule 19.
Warren protested.
Mr. President, I am surprised that the words of Coretta Scott King are not suitable for debate in the United States Senate.
I ask leave of the Senate to continue my remarks.
McConnell objected to Warren s request and Daines ordered her to take her seat.Warren appealed the ruling and called for a quorum vote to delay the proceedings.Despite Democrats protest speeches, Sessions is expected to be approved as attorney general on Wednesday.
Daily CallerIt s a sickening game Democrats play with the character of other people who don t agree with them and their radical views.
They have no problem impugning the good name of Senator Jeff Sessions, who has an impeccable record of service to our nation, as long as he has been completely discredited by the time he takes office.