Republicans who backed Donald Trump because he was the GOP nominee while knowing full well that he was incompetent now have to face the wrath of their constituents.
The former reality show star is not draining the swamp; he s filling it to the brim with terrifying creatures.
He s not the transparent president he promised he would be.
He s up to his eyeballs in scandals, one of which involves a foreign hostile government interfering with our presidential election process.
The alleged president is also refusing to release his tax returns.
Mexico is not paying for the wall.
We, the taxpayers, will foot the bill for his ego-wall.U.S.
Rep. French Hill and Sen. Tom Cotton held a town hall and had to face an unwelcoming crowd.
The two Republicans were left stammering while trying to find answers for Trump s actions.Hill and Cotton look like they have on matching outfits.
Oddly, the two appear to need each other s support on the stage while their constituents held them accountable for not having the balls to speak out against Trump.Watch:"I think it's time to repeal and replace you in 2020": Arkansas @SenTomCotton and @RepFrenchHill face angry constituents at a town hall pic.twitter.com/8CH884uqms POLITICO (@politico) April 17, 2017Cotton had to listen to Lock him up!
chants from attendees.
One constituent called the pair kindergarteners.
Cotton faced anger over Trump not releasing his tax returns.
As far as I m aware, the president says he is still under audit, he said, but the crowd wasn t buying it.
Boos rang out from the crowd while Cotton just stood there.
Arkansas constituents told Hill to do his job as he stood there with a look of frustration on his face.
He mentioned a steady source of leadership then a constituent yelled out, Trump can t do that!
Both of these Republicans are complicit in the amateur president s crimes.
Fairly soon we ll be hearing Trump say, I am not a crook!
Trump has only been on the job for less than 100 days and his scandals make Watergate seem tame.Image via screen capture