Johnny Depp will not be voting for Donald Trump, judging from the award-winning actor s comments during a recent sit-down Q&A at Arizona State University on Saturday.The Q&A was focused around the methods Depp uses in his acting, but the actor couldn t help but go off on a Trump rant while speaking with theoretical physicist and Arizona State University s Origins Project founder Lawrence Krauss about humanity in madness.
Depp didn t mince his words as he railed against the GOPer, calling him a brat.
Depp began by stating that he didn t think the candidate s offensive behavior was merely a result of him being a rich kid.
Depp added, There s something creative about him in a sense of bullydom before ultimately coming to the conclusion that What he is, I believe, is a brat.
Depp also commented on Trump s raunchy, brash language by stating how interesting it was to follow the absurdity of where his sentences might travel.
Depp continued: Reagan back in the day, Mr. Gorbachev, tear down that wall!
Donald Trump, I m going to build a wall.
And all of my billions are not going to have to pay for it.
Because you know why?
Mexico is going to pay for it.'
What follows after those thoughts is one of the most amazing, dead-on Trump impressions by the actor, which the audience went absolutely wild for.
You can watch Depp go in on Trump below:Depp has attacked Trump before, and seems to have his impression of him down pat.
Last month, Depp impersonated the business mogul in a hilarious Funny Or Die video that was based on Trump s bestselling book The Art of the Deal.Depp is just the latest person to join the droves of celebrities speaking out against Trump.
Just this weekend, singer John Legend also publicly railed against the Republican front runner when he called Trump out on Twitter.
Trump has also recently been condemned by Louis C.K., Miley Cyrus, George Clooney, and Stephen King and we don t blame these celebrities for doing everything they can to wake Americans up.
As long as Trump has a chance at the White House, America is in big trouble and we need everyone to speak up against him.
Featured image via video screen capture