Many Republicans have expressed the opinion that Donald Trump is an absolute idiot, but this new diss from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell gives new weight to that harsh truth.Yesterday, in speaking on Bloomberg Politics Masters in Politics podcast, McConnell basically said that Trump needed to have a Vice President that was more qualified than him, because it is pretty obvious that Trump doesn t know a lot about the issues.
Ouch!McConnell said: He needs someone highly experienced and very knowledgeable because it s pretty obvious he doesn t know a lot about the issues.
You see that in the debates in which he s participated.
It s why I have argued to him publicly and privately that he ought to use a script more often there is nothing wrong with having prepared texts.
McConnell has previously criticized Trump for several things, his blatant racism being just one of them.
More recently, the Senate Majority Leader called Trump s controversial comments about Judge Gonzalo Curiel not being fair in overseeing the fraudulent Trump University case because of his Mexican heritage totally inappropriate.
McConnell added on the podcast: I object to a whole series of things that he s said vehemently object to them.
I think all of that needs to stop.
Both the shots at people he defeated in the primary and these attacks on various ethnic groups in the country.
Unfortunately, despite the fact that McConnell practically admitted that he thinks Trump is an idiot and incapable of running the country, he still found it in himself to say, I m comfortable supporting him.
I m not going to speculate about what he might say, or what I might do.
But I think it s pretty clear and I ve been pretty clear publicly about how I think he ought to change direction and I hope that s what we are going to see.For all of his obvious shortcomings, Donald Trump is certainly a different direction, and I think if he is in the White House he ll have to respond to the right-of-center world which elected him, and the things that we believe in.
So I m comfortable supporting him.
They may be on different sides of the political spectrum, but Trump s incompetency is something that McConnell and our President can actually agree on.
McConnell s comments about Trump not knowing anything about the issues that America s commander-in-chief would face is something that Obama has previously said about the business mogul.At a nuclear summit in Washington D.C., Obama called out Trump s ignorance on nuclear proliferation and global politics.
In a statement that was clearly directed at Trump, Obama said: [The statements] tell us that the person who made the statements doesn t know much about foreign policy, nuclear policy, the Korean peninsula or the world generally.
You can watch that diss below:Noting that the rest of the world was closely watching the U.S. election, Obama added: What we do is really important to the rest of the world.
The president of the United States needs to know what s going on around the world.
Honestly, it doesn t matter who would be Trump s VP he s proven time and time again that he doesn t listen to anyone but himself.
The only way to keep this country safe from Trump s idiocy is to make sure he doesn t get into the White House.Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images