The Nazis see Donald Trump as their pathway back to power so they are joining his campaign in droves.It s not exactly a secret that white supremacists, including neo-Nazis and members of the KKK, are supportive of the Republican nominee.
But this election is especially different because of how emboldened they are about Donald Trump.Nazis in this country have been on the fringe of our society for decades, which is where they belong.
But Donald Trump is giving them the seat at the mainstream table that they have desperately desired and Republicans don t see any problem with that at all.And that s why these racists are not only able to openly volunteer for Trump campaign, they are able to openly brag about doing so and have no problem boasting about the goals they are trying to achieve.
There s a connection it isn t always policy but a deep visceral, you could say emotional connection between the alt-right and his campaign, white supremacist Richard Spencer told the Los Angeles Times.
I think he does recognize that he has this alt-right army behind him.
I think he also realizes if he backs down, if he stops being combative, he is in danger of losing that.
Indeed, Donald Trump has embraced white supremacists by retweeting their accounts on his own Twitter feed and using rhetoric that appeals to them.In fact, despite his attempt to paint Democrats as the real racist fascists in this election, Trump is actually the candidate that white nationalists are drawn to.
Virtually every alt-right Nazi I know is volunteering for the Trump campaign, said white nationalist Andrew Anglin.David Duke, the former KKK leader who is running for the U.S. Senate in Louisiana, bragged to the Times that Trump is where he is because of white supremacists.
Trump happened because of us, Duke said, not the other way around.
The fact that Donald Trump s doing so well, it proves that I m winning, Duke continued.
I am winning.
And if David Duke wins, it means the Nazis and the KKK win, too.So are we as Americans really prepared to let the Nazis take over the United States?
Because if they do, they ll have control of the greatest military on the planet and we need to remember that when Hitler and the Nazis took power in Germany the first nation they conquered was their own and it resulted in concentration camps, indoctrination, loss of rights, and the eventual destruction of the entire nation.
We can stop this new generation of Nazis from gaining power in the United States simply by making sure Trump loses by a landslide in November.
If not, we may end up needing a coalition of nations to liberate us one day and that means World War III.Donald Trump and his white nationalist supporters need to be stopped before it is too late.Featured Image: Twitter