Donald Trump has once again given the terrorist group ISIS (aka Daesh, The Islamic State) material for their latest propaganda video.
It isn t the first time.In the new video released on Thursday by al-Battar, an ISIS affiliate, Trump s comments on the city of Brussels are prominently featured.Almost forgot to note that comments from Trump featured in opening of IS-affil al-Battar Brussels video.
pic.twitter.com/935vgwSRc6 Michael S. Smith II (@MichaelSSmithII) March 24, 2016Specifically the video gives the terrorists what they want, labeling the chaos caused by the terror attacks as a horror show.
The chilling video opens with a message in Arabic followed by an image of Trump, saying Brussels is now an absolute horror show .Trump s voice is heard saying: Brussels was one of the great cities, it was one of the most beautiful cities of the world 20 years ago, it was amazing actually, and safe.
Now it s a horror show, it s an absolute horror show.
The rest of the video celebrates the attack, which killed at least 31 people, and shows images of dead children and babies.
The song accompanying Trump s video praises the jihadists: Brothers, rise up, rise up.
Claim your victory.
Let s go, Let s go In December, Hillary Clinton warned that Trump s over the top, heated anti-Muslim rhetoric would be used as fodder for ISIS terrorist videos.
You know, people around the world pay close attention to our elections.
And if you go on Arabic television, as we have, and you look at what is being blasted out with video of Mr. Trump being translated into Arabic, No Muslims coming into the United States, other kinds of derogatory, defamatory statements, it is playing into the hands of the violent jihadists, she said.
There is nothing they want more than to be able to claim that the United States is against Islam and against Muslims and that then lights an even bigger fire for them to make their propaganda claims through social media and other ways.
A month later, video from the al Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group al-Shabaab included clips of Trump calling for a ban on Muslim immigration after the San Bernardino shooting as evidence that America is a racist society.
Featured image via Twitter