On Thursday afternoon, the world was treated to yet another Donald Trump press conference the topic of which was to announce his latest Labor Secretary pick.
He did that, but he did so much more.
Reporters are in shock.
It was combative.
It was bombastic.
It was nuts, and not in the cute way.
This is a man who s clearly not fit to be president of a PTA, let alone President of the United States.For the moment, though, he is President of the United States and even Republicans are secretly mortified at the prospect of having this insane monster at the helm for the next four years.
One even texted CNN during the press conference, saying that Trump should see a therapist.
I got a text from a couple of Democrats during the thing, who of course are not inclined to like him, King said Thursday, But I got a text from a Republican senator who said in this text, He should do this with a therapist, not on live television.
How bad was it?
Well, like most days since Trump was elected, he boasted about it and lied about the win.
He complained about the media.
He suggested that an African-American reporter is friends with the Congressional Black Caucus and should set up a meeting between Trump and the caucus.
Here s a partial video:This Senator, who is remaining nameless, is not the first to suggest that Trump needs medical help.
Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) has gone so far as to require a mental health professional be on staff for the president.
His disconnection from the truth is incredibly disturbing, he said.
When you add on top of that his stifling of dissent, his attacks on the free press and his attacks on the legitimacy of judiciary, that then takes us down the road toward authoritarianism.
That s why I ve concluded he is a danger to the republic.
Source: CosmoAnd this was before today s press conference.
The bill, if passed (it likely won t get through the GOP Congress) would not just be for Trump.
It would be for all future presidents.
First, though, we need to do something about the madman with access to the nuclear codes.
We need to do it now.
The anonymous Republican knows it.
They all do.Featured image via Mario Tama/Getty Images