After this past week and few days that Trump has been our President*, we as Americans have no choice but to be fully aware of the horrors that are in store for us.
Already, he has signed executive orders authorizing a partial Muslim ban that led to nationwide protests before it was ultimately shut down (temporarily) by a federal judge, removing funding from any international health organizations that so much as mention abortion, two major pipelines that will destroy our environment, his stupid fucking wall, and even concentration camps for the millions of undocumented immigrants he intends to round up.Already, the first President in history that was effectively installed by a hostile foreign dictator through an aggressive propaganda and fake news campaign as well as a series of hacks directly authorized and overseen by Russian President Vladimir Putin, is not only proving the naysayers correct, but showing the world that they have underestimated the level of horribleness he can attain.
As always, Alec Baldwin rushed to the rescue Saturday night with exactly the words we need to hear:1- This country had a calling card.We all knew what it was.It wasn't Wall Street or Hollywood or the right to bear arms that brought ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 29, 20172- that brought countless people, America's future, to this country.
It was freedom.Freedom was our calling card.Trump wants to kill that ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 29, 2017 This country had a calling card.
We all knew what it was.
It wasn t Wall Street or Hollywood or the right to bear arms that brought America s future, to this country.
It was freedom, Baldwin wrote.
Freedom was our calling card.
Trump wants to kill that.
Baldwin came to the conclusion reached by many, including a growing number of those who voted for him: Trump s gota go.
3- Trump's gotta go.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 29, 2017 All the indignation is fine.
But we gotta get him out!
We must demand a competency test!
Baldwin later added.
He is ill!
Mentally ill!
All the indignation is fine.But we gotta get him out!We must demand a competency test!He is ill!Mentally ill!
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 29, 2017He s exactly right.
Unfortunately most options are going to prove to be fruitless.
Impeachment would require the rather enthusiastic participation of a Republican-controlled Congress.
The 25th Amendment allows the Vice President and cabinet to declare him unfit for pretty much any reason, but that requires the people Trump appointed to turn on him and things are actually going pretty well for them right now as The Donald checks off the Neo-Nazi wish list items one by one.
It would also require Republicans in general to be halfway decent people who care about the good of their country.Right now, things seem hopeless but something amazing is happening.
Trump is bringing Americans together, causing even those who once were silent in the face of right-wing oppression to rise up and declare that they are not willing to take it anymore.
Americans as a whole are facing this adversity head-on and, most importantly, together.Right now, our future is uncertain, but our number one duty to our country is to oppose Trump s hateful agenda at every turn.
Our elected leaders the ones with backbones, anyway absolutely must obstruct Trump in any way possible.
Our nation has never faced a test like Donald Trump, and it is imperative that we do not fail.Featured image via screengrab