In the wake of the Orlando mass shooting Arizona pastor Steven Anderson responded by cheering on the killings and called for executing every gay person in America.
The good news is that there s 50 less pedophiles in this world, because, you know, these homosexuals are a bunch of disgusting perverts and pedophiles, Anderson said in a video posted to YouTube the day after the shooting.
But these people all should have been killed, anyway, but they should have been killed through the proper channels, as in they should have been executed by a righteous government that would have tried them, convicted them, and saw them executed.
Because, in Leviticus 20:13, God s perfect law, he put the death penalty on murder, and he also put the death penalty on homosexuality.
That s what the Bible says, plain and simple.
Now karma is kicking his ass and he isn t happy about it.As it turns out, Anderson and his congregation at the Faithful Word Baptist Church in Phoenix do business with other people both online and in brick and mortar establishments.
That means these businesses can be informed about who they are doing business with and they re not too interested in doing business with a bigot who wants to commit mass murder.Paypal and Apple are among many businesses that have terminated the accounts of Anderson, his church, and the other bigoted pastors who foolishly followed his lead in calling for executing gay people.And like a child being denied candy by his parents in the middle of a supermarket, Anderson literally threw a temper tantrum about it during a sermon.
It s war.
You know what the filthy sodomites have done toward our church and us, and our friends and our fellow pastors that actually have the guts to say what needs to be said?
Here s what they ve done in the last few weeks.
They got our PayPal account shut down so that we can t take anymore online donations.
We set up with another company, GivLet, they got that shut down.
Qgiv, they got that shut down.
BitPay, they got that shut down.
They shut down our iTunes podcast.
They shut down Brother Jimenez s PayPal account.
They shut down Brother Romero s PayPal account The landlord of Pastor Jimenez is saying, hey we re not going to renew your lease.
Romero and Jimenez both praised the Orlando mass shooting and called for gay people to be executed across the country.
I mean these people are dedicated, Anderson continued.
These people are researching, they re finding out where we bank, they re finding out who we do business with.
They re trying to get us shut down on all fronts, and you know what, let me tell you something, I m sick of it.
Then he leaped atop his podium and began screaming at his congregation telling them if they don t agree with him they should leave and proceeded to call LGBT people dogs.
And you know what, if you re not gonna back us up then get out of here, we don t need your help, he said.
I don t want to hang around with a bunch of fag hags and a bunch of queer baits and a bunch of effeminates.
GET OUT!
They re sodomites!
They re dogs!
DOGS!
Here s the video via YouTube:And just think, many conservatives out there disgustingly agree with him and they are voting in November.
Will you?Featured Image: Screenshot