There are apparently still folks who believe that because the LGBT community is gaining more and more equality, and because women have the right to make their own medical decisions, they are being forced to promote being gay and apparently forcing abortions on everyone.Case in point Arizona Pastor Steven Anderson of Faithful Word Baptist Church.Anderson seems discontent in knowing the United States is offering too much freedom for all.
He seems to think the rule of his God should be the ruler of all.
And now, he s even going after the Pledge of Allegiance, because he somehow thinks that by reciting it he s being forced to promote homosexuality and abortion.During one of his sermons, he said: One nation, corrupt, perverted, promoting abortion and homosexuality to all.
Not gonna do it, my friend.
Get mad at me.
Quit the church.
Umm granting equality under the law to people who are part of the LGBT community or letting women have control over their own bodies is not promoting anything it s freedom.
Something the United States kinda prides itself on.
He doesn t seem to understand that he isn t being forced to do anything he doesn t want to do.
He can still live his life with hate in his heart and no one will do a damn thing about it.
He said: I don t want anything to do with sodomy.
It s wicked.
I don t want anything to do with abortion.
I don t want anything to do with the things that our country is starting to stand for.
Then he steps further onto the crazy train by perpetuating the myth that the United States is pushing for a New World Order.
He doesn t seem to realize that he isn t forced to pledge allegiance to the flag, nor that there is separation of church and state that protects the church as much as it protects the state.
He said: The problem with making an oath or pledge or affirmation is that you might sit there and pledge allegiance, right?
And then, like, 30 years later, what happens when that country is a totally different place?
What happens when that country stands for something totally different?
And you ve already pledged allegiance to it.
I mean, we don t want to do that.
We don t want to get wrapped up in that.
Sure, but he doesn t seem to have a problem pledging allegiance to an archaic text that was written thousands of years ago by men who claim the are writing the word of God.
It s more than fine to believe in the Bible.
It s more than fine to believe in God.
That s his freedom that is protected under the Constitution of the United States.
He s allowed to worship freely under full protection of the law as so long as he doesn t harm anyone.
So, before he goes and swears off our earthly government he should probably think long and hard about the fact that freedom is granted to all, not just some.
Featured image via video screen capture