The truth about Springsteen is so disappointing (see below) but this one takes the cake!Bruce Springsteen has been a sellout all these years.
He s not the person he portrayed himself to be to the American people.He just revealed he nearly gave up one of his most iconic anthems Born In The USA, admitting he believed it was too insincere and glib .
He said he doesn t feel comfortable singing the song.
It s almost like he s apologizing for appearing to be patriotic.
Are you thinking what we re thinking?
He sang that song so many times but never felt ok singing it?
That s the difference between Springsteen and someone like Lee Greenwood.
Lee Greenwood has always been a passionate and fearless supporter of America and the American way.
Springsteen is just a phony Speaking at a Q&A session with Tom Hanks at the Tribeca Film Festival, the 67-year-old rocker opened up to the Oscar-winning actor, insisting that it was E Street Band guitarist Stevie Van Zandt who convinced him to keep the 1984 hit.Springsteen s memorable tune was written in part tribute to friends who had served in the American Army during the Vietnam War and the ironic treatment of the veterans upon their return home.
He divulged: Stevie [Van Zandt, longtime guitarist in the E Street Band] convinced me to keep that song.
I remember at the time thinking it s too glib.
It s too glib.
I think I still think that.
But Stevie said, No, no, no it s about the band, the brotherhood of the band, the fans.
The New Jersey native who has been married to Patti Scialfa since 1991 added that he gave his musical peer the benefit of the doubt but still doesn t feel quite comfortable with the song.Adding: I gave him the benefit of the doubt.
We ve played it an awful lot ever since.
But I was always a little frightened of it.
And the whole record I always have mixed feelings about.
Despite his feelings, the epochal song has received much praise throughout the years and was ranked 275th on Rolling Stone s list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time as well as placed on RIAA s Songs of the Century.The fan favorite and title track of his 1984 album of the same name inspired famed photographer Annie Leibovitz s iconic photo of Springsteen s backside against the backdrop of an American flag for the record cover.
Commenting on the concept in 1984, the Medal of Freedom recipient told Rolling Stone: We had the flag on the cover because the first song was called Born in the U.S.A. , and the theme of the record kind of follows from the themes I ve been writing about for at least the last six or seven years.Read more: Daily MailSPRINGSTEEN JUST RELEASED A SONG THAT BASHES PRESIDENT TRUMP Bruce Springsteen aka The Boss is showing all of his fans just how out of touch he is with his latest song.
He s been a fervent anti-Trump guy and has been very outspoken against President Donald Trump.
His new protest song refers to Trump as a con man .
What a way to disrespect the leader of our nation!
has Bruce Springsteen employed thousands of Americans?
It s interesting that Trump just delivered one of the best ever speeches to the builders union.
Please watch the video provided below of what a real working man does for his crew.
It s an awesome speech that totally discounts everything Springsteen is trying to say to bash Trump.
Shame on him!The 67-year-old rocker released his and Joe Grushecky s anti-Trump song, called That s What Makes Us Great, and it is a direct comment on the president and his administration, according to Pitchfork.Springsteen s part of the song goes as follows: Don t tell me a lieAnd sell it as a factI ve been down that road beforeAnd I ain t going back.And don t you brag to meThat you never read a bookI never put my faithIn a con man and his crooks.
During an interview with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Gushecky talked about writing the song in January after Trump was sworn-in as president I had this song, and Bruce and I had been talking, Grushecky said.
I sent it to him and he liked it.
I said, What do you think about singing on it?
He gave it the Bruce treatment.
In February, Springsteen said he was an embarrassed American during a concert in Australia.
On the same tour he attacked Trump s first travel ban as un-American.
Tonight we want to add our voice to the thousands of Americans who are protesting at airports around our country the Muslim ban and the detention of foreign nationals and refugees, Springsteen told the crowd.
America is a nation of immigrants.
This is fundamentally un-American.
What a bunch of bull!
Springsteen has lost his roots and his sense of the working man.
If he cared to know anything about President Trump then he would know Trump s bringing back American jobs.
He s working hard to get the steel industry up and running again.
He just held a Buy American, Hire American event promoting keeping jobs in America.
What s better than a president who s a builder speaking to builders and construction workers.
In President Trump s speech he calls out people by name pretty great!
He knows business and building.
We re in good hands America!
The era of economic surrender has come to an end.
It s come to an end.
We have surrendered as a country to outside interests.
The era of economic victory for our country has just begun.
You will see.. Oh, you will see President Trump