Ever since the Supreme Court effectively legalized same-sex marriage nationwide, a few things have happened.
The number of anti-LGBT hate crimes has seemed to rise, the Christian Right has gone on the offensive (and, in the process, has been very offensive), and Republicans just can t stop talking about men kissing and the possibility of penises in women s restrooms.
A Kentucky woman was a victim of one of the aforementioned hate crimes on Thursday simply because a man thought she looked too masculine and that s not even the worst part.Brittany Nicole Wallace wrote on her Facebook timeline that a man assaulted her because she looks like a dike.
She recounted the horrifying experience:He told me that he would beat me like the man I want to be.
He said, people like me make him hate the world .
He started by hitting me over and over in the face until he got me down.
After I was down he began to kick me in the stomach, side, and face.
Anyone that knows me knows that I tried my best to fight back.
The truth is he was bigger and stronger than me.Then it gets heartbreaking.
Despite a number of onlookers, not a single person stepped in to help.
Not a single person had the decency to recognize that a man beating a woman even after she was on the ground is wrong:I believe that if I had long hair and dressed more feminine this would not have happened to me.
The sad part is that no one would come help me either.
Several people stood around and watched this happen to me.
Again, I truly believe that if I had a more feminine appearance someone would have helped.Despite the attack, Wallace says that it has strengthened her resolve to fight against this kind of hatred:This has not only physically but mentally and emotionally damaged me.
I will do everything I can to try to put a stop to this hate and violence.
I love people and try to help people all the time.
All I ask if you read this is to please stop the hate, and help people when you see them getting hurt verbally, emotionally and physically!She even included photos of her injuries:This sort of hatred needs to stop.
Unfortunately, half the country follows a party whose entire platform is built on hatred, whose frontrunner practices almost every form of bigotry possible.
Unfortunately, with Right-Wing media and politicians constantly reminding their poorly educated followers of the alleged evils of the LGBT community.
Even more unfortunately, we can expect this sort of thing if Republicans manage to win not only the Presidency, but seats in the Senate and House.We can t allow this to continue.
Vote BLUE in November not just for the Oval Office, but for every office both local and national.
Let s start undoing the damage done by the Republican Party.Featured image via Facebook