After perhaps the worst day in presidential history, something is brewing in New York that could do far more damage than any political scandal ever could.
It could put Trump completely out of business.A group in New York State is petitioning New York s Attorney General, Eric Schneiderman, long a critic of Trump, is being urged to pull Trump s business charter altogether.The group is called Free Speech for People.
They, like many liberal advocacy groups, are best known for ill-fated petitions, like this one attempting to impeach Trump.
However, things could be different this time because of timing.The group did not unearth any new information about Trump s company.
Instead, it dug up the company s past legal infractions, such settlements over housing discrimination charges in the 1970s and fraud allegations at Trump University last year, and argued that Schneiderman ought to take action against the company now that Trump has become president and declined to sell his interests.
By continuing to operate under Trump family ownership and control with President Trump in the White House, the Trump Organization flagrantly abuses its state-granted powers, contrary to the public policies of New York against corruption and conflicts of interest, and contrary to the U.S. Constitution, the letter reads.Source: Washington PostWith one breaking scandal after another since the day Trump took office (less than four weeks ago), the public mood, especially in blue state New York, it turning against the wannabe dictator.
Between Trump s Russia scandals (potential treason) and the fact that Trump refuses to divest himself from his business interests.While most in politics might dismiss the letter as being from liberal cranks (conservative cranks are typically the only ones politicians pay attention to), Free Speech for People have chosen the right target.
Schneiderman has been fighting Trump since before Trump became a birther.
He s currently in the process of suing Trump over immigration and he was one of the plaintiffs in the Trump University case.Schneiderman has acknowledged the letter, which is more than most would likely give us.
Let s hope he takes up the cause.
If you are in New York, contact Schneiderman s office at 800-771-7755.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images.