A day after a plagiarism scandal rocked Melania Trump for the portions of her convention speech that were lifted from Michelle Obama, Donald Trump s son Donald Jr. faces a similar allegation.?
pic.twitter.com/QEftnTTwy3 The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) July 20, 2016The Twitter account for The Daily Show made the catch, pointing out a passage in Donald Trump Jr. s speech that appears to have been lifted from an article in a conservative magazine.In the speech, Trump pointed out that our schools used to be an elevator to the middle class.
Now they re stalled on the ground floor.
In an article in The American Conservative, writer F.H.
Buckley writes, What should be an elevator to the upper class is stalled on the ground floor.
In a later sentence, Buckley went on to say, our schools and universities are like the old Soviet department stores whose mission was to serve the interests of the sales clerks and not the customers.
In his speech to the convention, praising his father, Donald Trump Jr. said: [Schools are] like Soviet-era department stores that are run for the benefit of the clerks and not the customers.
The writer, Buckley, then said in an interview with CNN that he was a principal speech writer for the speech.
So it s not an issue.
If not a direct copy like the Melania/Obama issue, the incident continues to highlight the manner in which the Trump team continues to botch the basics of running a convention, which has been echoed in their lack of preparation for the general election.All day long the Trump campaign tried to fight back on the story of Melania s plagiarism, first claiming that it didn t happen, then arguing that since it was only 7 percent of the speech it didn t matter, then blaming speechwriters when she said I an interview with NBC that she wrote it herself.Talk of the speech dominated the day when in most traditional campaigns the presentation from the nominee s spouse would have generated positive headlines.Donald Trump Jr. himself blamed the speechwriters and not his stepmother for the incident, telling CBS News, Of course [Melania] worked with speechwriters.
Having never done this before, you have to work with speechwriters.
Those are the people that did this.
Featured image via Twitter