This is the best yet!
A message to Hollywood that went viral.
It covers most of the things we think of when we think of the hypocrisy that runs rampant there:Hollywood:You lecture us about our carbon footprints while flying on private jets.You preach feminism while brutalizing women.You castigate violence while making millions off it in your movies.You condemn guns, with armed bodyguards at your side.You are the problem, not us.WELL SAID!LIBERAL HOLLYWOOD HAD THE WORST SUMMER IN 25 YEARS:With the list of Hollywood actors and entertainers that Americans have decided to boycott over their sickening public hate for our President, is it really any wonder we re seeing the worst box office numbers in 25 years?
Meryl Streep used her allotted time for accepting her lifetime achievement award at the Golden Globes to trash President Trump.
At the start of her dramatic speech, Streep bemoaned to her fellow liberals that Hollywood belong to one of the most vilified segments in America right now .
It appears that she hit may have actually the nail on the head.
The problem with arrogant actresses like Meryl Streep who falsely believe that because they ve been gifted with exceptional acting abilities, that Americans should fall in line with their radical political beliefs or we are ignorant.
"As my friend Princess Leia said to me once: take your broken heart, make it into art."
#MerylStreep pic.twitter.com/GzOHo7O729 #GoldenGlobes Richard Hine (@richardhine) January 9, 2017And then there s Robert DiNero, who called candidate Trump a punk, a pig and an idiot.
Only days before the election, DiNero angrily admitted that he would like to assault our soon to be President, claiming, I d like to punch him in the face .The list of Hollywood losers who have made vile, unfounded and even threatening remarks against a man who has put his very successful life on hold in an effort to save our nation is vast.
The list of Hollywood losers who have said they would like to harm our President is also rather significant, starting with Madonna who got a visit from the secret service after she told a large, adoring group of women at the Women s March in DC, that she d like to blow up the White House.And then there s comedian Kathy Griffin, who saw her career literally blow up after making an ISIS style video holding up a decapitated and bloodied head of President Trump.
Is Hollywood s rapidly declining appeal really so surprising to most Americans who are 100% FED UP with their hate for middle-America?As Hollywood wraps up the all-important summer box-office season this Labor Day weekend, a sobering reality has gripped the industry.The number of tickets sold in the United States and Canada this summer is projected to fall to the lowest level in a quarter-century.The results have put the squeeze on the nation s top theater chains, whose stocks have taken a drubbing.
AMC Theatres Chief Executive Adam Aron this month called his company s most recent quarter simply a bust.
Such blunt language reflects some worrisome trends.
Domestic box-office revenue is expected to total $3.78 billion for the first weekend of May through Labor Day a key period that generates about 40% of domestic ticket sales down nearly 16% from the same period last year, according to comScore.
That s an even worse decline than the 10% drop some studio executives predicted before the summer began.
LA TimesBreitbart Even before this catastrophic Labor Day weekend is factored in (more on this below), the domestic 2017 box office is in hideous shape.
This year is 6.3% behind 2016 and continues to fall behind 2015, 2013, and 2012.If you figure in inflation, those numbers are even worse.
For example, in 2012 the average ticket cost $7.96.
Today it is almost a full dollar more at $8.89.
Yeah, things are that bad and will look even worse on Tuesday.With no apparent faith in their own product, this is the first Labor Day in 25 years where a new title has not been released on more than 1,000 screens.
Over this weekend last year, the box office hauled in nearly $130 million.
This year will do about a third of that.Summer attendance is at a 25-year low.The summer box office is down a whopping 16% compared to 2016.Can a handful of titles It, Kingsman 2, Bladerunner 2, Thor 3, Justice League, Star Wars 8 save an entire year?
Doubtful.
Pull out of a dive?
Maybe.
Still, we are talking about only six big titles over four months, which is about on par with last year s Passengers, Rogue One, Doctor Strange, Fantastic Beasts, Inferno, Sully, and Magnificent Seven.