What a bitter woman!
She blames a different thing every week for her 2016 loss to President Trump.
Everything she says below is a lie.
She just makes it up as she goes along: She went on to describe how men who shaped the narrative of the campaign harmed her but are now under fire for sexual harassment.
Hillary Clinton thinks that former NBC host Matt Lauer s demise is karma for how he questioned her about her private email server during the 2016 presidential campaign.Clinton was in Philadelphia on Thursday promoting her campaign memoir, What Happened, when she was asked about Lauer being fired this week over allegations of sexual misconduct, the Philly Voice reported.
Lauer faced a storm of criticism last year when several journalists and commentators deemed his questioning of Clinton at a candidate forum unfair and even sexist.
Every day I believe more in karma, Clinton said of Lauer.She went on to describe how men who shaped the narrative of the campaign harmed her but are now under fire for sexual harassment, echoing how her supporters have tied Lauer s alleged misconduct to his treatment of Clinton.
She also repeated her past arguments about the election, primarily blaming a host of outside factors for her defeat.
EXTENDED COUGHING FIT IS THIS KARMA TOO?At one point early in the evening, Clinton launched into an extended coughing fit, the kind of thing that tended to lead to theories during the campaign that the candidate was concealing some sort of illness.
Weiner attempted to fill the time by making a self-deprecating joke about her own last name, but knowing that Clinton s history with a man of that particular surname is what led to the notorious Comey Letter, she may have not found it so funny.STILL TRYING TO SELL HER BOOK ON THE ROAD, CLINTON IS ONLY SUCCESSFUL IN MAKING HERSELF OUT TO BE THE BIGGEST WHINER AROUND The only video out there that we could find is of Hillary s response to a heckler:Philly and @HillaryClinton were having none of this asshole tonight #pizzagate #HillaryClinton #philly #whathappened pic.twitter.com/iuezuhhzKs Amy (@amyreyrn) December 1, 2017The heckler yelled out a question about Pizzagate She wasted no time in attacking the right wing .
LOL!THE PHILLY NEWS COMMENTS ON THE CLINTON VISIT ARE 99.9% AGAINST CLINTON HERE S A SAMPLING:VIA: WFB