Daryush Valizadeh, a neo-masculinist movement leader and blogger who tried to hold events around the nation and world for like-minded men this coming Saturday is running scared.
First, he announced that he could not guarantee the safety and privacy of other misogynist douchebags at his Return of Kings meet-ups, so he announced that this International Tribal Day would be cancelled, as would all future events.
The internet, politicians, and various other organizations and public figures rightly condemned the gatherings organized by a man whose misogynistic writings include calls to make rape legal.Now, Roosh V., as he is known, is alleging that he is being threatened.
Like most bottom-feeding lowlifes, it appears that this loser lives in his mommy s house, despite being a grown man who has been quite successful at peddling his anti-woman garbage under the guise of being a pick up artist.
He contacted authorities after the cancellation of the worldwide meet-up events, and told police that at least one threat said, We will kill you if you come to our city.
Now, death threats serve no purpose, and they are illegal.
No one should be sending him or anyone else threats, though the urge is certainly more than understandable in this particular case.
What he expected to happen, exactly, when he decided to organize events steeped in dangerous ant-woman teachings, I ve no idea.
Of course any reasonable person would be disgusted and outraged at the prospect of such people gather in their cities and neighborhoods.One organization that had planned to protest the New York City meeting of Roosh V s event said that while they are glad that the horrific meeting was cancelled, their work is far from done: They took to their Facebook event page to say the following: We showed the entire MRA, PUA and neo-masculine movements that they are not welcome, and should we see them in person, they ll never forget the experience (to put it politely).
But we are vehemently of the opinion that we shouldn t just pat ourselves on the back and call it a day.
No, rape culture still permeates our society, and we re f*cking tired of it!
Any reasonable person realizes that Men s Rights Activists, Pick-Up Artists, and neo-masculinists are all the result of rampant misogyny and rape culture.
These people are despicable, and need to go the way of the dinosaur, along with the rape culture that created them in the first place.Featured image from screen capture from Raw Story