With Donald Trump taking the Republican Party and the nation by storm, it s easy to say that no one really saw him getting as far as he has during this election cycle.
And while many of us wish he never threw his name into the ring as a GOP contender, it looks as though we re not the only ones who didn t want him to run.Even though she will be campaigning for him for the first time in Wisconsin this coming week, Melania Trump definitely had her reservations about her husband running in the first place.During an interview with the Washington Post, Trump revealed that Melania wasn t excited about the possibility of him becoming a candidate.
According to Trump: She said, We have such a great life.
Why do you want to do this?
And in a very Trumpian fashion, Trump responded to her as though he s Superman needed to come to the rescue of the nation: I said, I sort of have to do it, I think.
I really have to do it.
.
.
.
I could do such a great job.
But Melania said: I hope you don t do it, but if you run, you ll win.
However, Trump being Trump and unable to respect a woman s opinion on pretty much anything, he ignored his wife s wishes to just continue on with their life as usual to be with their son and run his business ventures.
Instead, he decided to run for dictator of the universe, or at least that s sure as hell how it seems.It s becoming more clear than ever that Donald Trump is in this election not for the country, but rather for Donald Trump.
Within the mind of the narcissist, he believes that he, with no experience whatsoever in political and diplomatic leadership, can take the reins of the United States of America.
And while his applause lines may work on the nincompoops within the Republican party for the primary elections, they most certainly will not work in the general election among people who can actually critically think the Democrats.
However, we must make sure he and his imbecilic following doesn t even remotely get the chance to win, so remember no matter who, vote blue.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images