It s no secret that Donald Trump and Adolf Hitler are very similar.
Like Hitler, Trump wants to keep the Untermensch in this case Muslims, Hispanics, and other brown people out of his country.
Both men chose to run for office on a Christian platform while failing to act anything remotely similar to Jesus.
Like Hitler, Trump has decided that an entire segment of the population Muslims should be forced to register in a national database and to wear special little badges.
And, like Hitler, The Donald wants to throw a certain segment of the population in concentration camps.
Dissenters especially minorities are brutally beaten at his rallies, something Trump adamantly supports.With all the similarities between the two fascists, YouTube prankster channel SloFlo decided to conduct a little social experiment: They quoted Adolf Hitler to Trump supporters, but told them the words were Trump s. The prankster made up a fake Trump pamphlet, but he replaced all the quotes with Hitler quotes.
Well, there s a lot of people that should be sterilized according to Donald Trump, said a man wearing a Trump tie.
So, sure.
You look at the Democratic Party and they prove that, one supporter said.
That s why I m voting for Trump.
He s a smart man, he s got the world by the balls right now, a young woman replied.
He s got a lot of money, and he s very influential because of his money, and what he s done with, like, his empire.
As soon as our economic system starts improving, we don t have to worry about the immigrants anymore, an enthusiastic man Trumpsplained.
They ll go away.
Well, man is the cruelest animal, said Tie Guy.After the Trump supporters said they agree with the quotes in the pamphlet, they were in for a surprise when it was revealed that the quotes actually came from none other than Adolf Hitler a man whose speeches Trump has been known to keep by his bedside.
I m definitely not down with racism, said the young woman after learning she had just endorsed Hitler s words.
I d say you re lying to me, another Trump supporter said with a blank stare on his face.
Asked if he still supports Trump, he replied: Well, yeah, But I don t support Hitler.
Pressed on whether he supports the quotes, he explained that If Donald Trump said them, I support em!
Watch this hilarious prank below:Featured image via screengrab