Montel Williams, who has been fighting Multiple Sclerosis since 1999, ripped the GOP s hideous health care bill, and the Republicans who voted for it, to pieces.The American Health Care Act guts the protections for pre-existing conditions that Obamacare had provided.
Under the AHCA, states could opt out of federal regulations and allow insurance companies to charge people with pre-existing conditions as much as they want.
This means that sick people, the very people who need medical care the most, could find themselves priced out of insurance coverage.Williams, who has been a vocal advocate for MS, weighed in on the bill during an interview with CNN on Saturday.
When by asked by Ana Cabrera what he thought of the AHCA, Williams did not hold back.What people at home don t understand, when you say terms and things like pre-existing conditions, they really are basing this on what an insurance company has stated was a pre-existing condition.So, they think about 22 percent of Americans have a problem right this minute.
This is from the National Institutes of Health.
Over 56 percent of adult Americans, 120 million adult Americans, have one chronic illness.
And around 80 percent of them have at least two.So these numbers that people throw out are so wrong.Cabrera pointed out that Republicans have promised access to health care, but what they really mean is that you can get insurance coverage if you are rich enough to pay for it.
Williams said that he is lucky to be able to afford whatever health insurance he needs, but most Americans don t have that luxury.He went on to say that many MS patients are already unable to get the medications they need to control this debilitating neurological condition because they don t have insurance.
Williams explained that the medication he himself is on costs over $1,500 a month.
I also have MS, and the price tag for just one of my medications tops $100,000 a year.Williams says that we need to worry about lowering costs, not signing people s death warrants with heinous bills like the AHCA.
He explains that the normal American can t afford to pay these kinds of prices for the medicines that keep them alive.
That s what insurance is for, he added.Watch Montel tear the GOP health care bill to pieces, here:Featured image via video screen capture