The media and the Democrat Party has been coming down pretty hard on President Trump for not doing enough to call out the rise of hateful anti-semitism, as though Trump has a direct line to the anti-semites.
Well, as it turns out, the first person to be arrested for his involvement in a string of bomb threats that were made to Jewish Community Centers is an openly racist, leftist journalist.
Let that sink in.
When 31 year old disgraced journalist Juan Thompson was arrested in connection with making threats against eight Jewish Community Centers, he immediately took to Twitter (where his feed is filled with hateful, racist views) to blame a white former girlfriend for framing you so you d be raped in jail what else?
Juan Thompson, of Missouri, is accused of making the threats as part of an extensive cyber-stalking campaign against his ex-girlfriend to harass and intimidate her, the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Southern District of New York announced on March 3.Thompson was fired by The Intercept last February after he was accused of fabricating sources in a story about the Charleston church shooting.Here s what you need to know.1.
During One Threat, Thompson Claimed There Were Bombs in a Middle School & There Was Going to be a Jewish Newtown In the now-retracted article, Thompson had claimed that Scott Roof had speculated during a phone conversation that Dylann Roof may been driven to murder nine black churchgoers at a Charleston, South Carolina church because he kind of went over the edge when a girl he liked starting dating a black guy two years back.
Thompson s report was picked up by dozens of other news outlets.Thompson was hired by The Intercept s founding editor-in-chief, John Cook, in November 2014.
Reed replaced Cook, a former editor of Gawker.com and the current executive editor of Gawker Media, in December 2014.
Prior to The Intercept, Thompson had reported in Chicago for DNAInfo and interned at the local NPR affiliate, WBEZ.
*On Twitter, Thompson claimed that the threats were made by his ex-girlfriend, the FBI said in court documents.The FBI has been investigating more than 100 bomb threats made to Jewish Community Centers, schools and the Anti-Defamation League, along with other Jewish organizations, since early January.
There have been at least five waves of attacks, with multiple threats coming on the same day.Police do not believe Thompson is the main suspect behind the majority of the threats, ABC News reports.
Police sources told ABC News that Thompson appears to have taken advantage of national news coverage of the threats to continue his ongoing harassment against his ex-girlfriend in revenge for her breaking up with him.
HeavyHere are a few sampling of tweets (language warning) from the racist liberal reporter Juan Thompson:Wow.
The #Oscars are fucking and toying and exploiting black ppl like America has done for centuries.
White folk are trash.
Juan M. Thompson (@JuanMThompson) February 27, 2017Make no mistake.
Trump is a developer.
This is his and the white establishment's effort to remove black ppl from the southside of Chicago.
https://t.co/fe47RB8gQU Juan M. Thompson (@JuanMThompson) February 24, 2017.
@ChrisCuomo Thinks there such a thing as shaming white folk.
You're an idiot.
White ppl have no shame.
History taught us that.
#dncdebate Juan M. Thompson (@JuanMThompson) February 23, 2017https://twitter.com/Mbarakat1990/status/834603029852725248.
@ChrisCuomo You are a horrible race/religious baiter.
"How could a black Muslim be opposed to anti-semitism?"
#dncdebate Juan M. Thompson (@JuanMThompson) February 23, 2017My family was on food stamps and we actually ate steaks and escargot.
Surf and turf all the way.
Go fuck yourself Mississippi Senator.
#ebt https://t.co/xFVVwrQ7or Juan M. Thompson (@JuanMThompson) February 22, 2017Daily Caller The criminal complaint states that threats made to the Jewish establishments across the country by Thompson were under his name and the name of his ex-girlfriend, and occurred after the relationship ended.
The threats were made by both email and phone calls.Dozens of Jewish Community Center bomb threats have occurred throughout the country since President Donald Trump s election, and liberal groups and politicians have attacked Trump for them.
The president condemned the threats during his address to Congress, but he reportedly said earlier that day, sometimes it s the reverse, to make people or to make others look bad.
Well-known liberal civil rights lawyer Alan Dershowitz defends anti-semitic accusations by leftist media and Democrat leaders against Trump s top White House advisor Steve Bannon: