Trump and his deplorable supporters worked for a year and a half dividing this nation and now they are complaining because liberals aren t kissing his ass.During a panel discussion on CNN with Anderson Cooper on Wednesday night about protests that have ignited across the country against Donald Trump, Trump supporter Kayleigh McEnany accused Democrats of stoking fears in Americans and claimed that the media unfairly portrayed Trump as a divisive monster instead of a uniter.That s when former Obama Administration official Van Jones shut McEnany down.
That s enough, Jones said before explaining how Muslim-Americans feel right now because the candidate who viciously attacked them for the last year and a half now has the reigns of power.
Now hold on a second.
Muslim parents that are afraid right now aren t afraid because of these kids with these signs.
They are afraid because he said over and over again he wanted to ban people of their faith.
McEnany tried to use her uppity white woman status to talk over Jones, telling him that he needs to correct the fear to make anti-Trump forces blindly get behind Trump as if he never said anything offensive or insulting at all.But Jones would have none of it.
Back off, Jones told McEnany.
You need to have a little bit of empathy and understanding for people who are afraid because your candidate has been one of the most explosively provocative candidates in the history of our country and there is a price to be paid for that.
I am not going to be talked over tonight.
I m not.
You have people who are terrified and you have to take some responsibility for it.
Despite being smacked down, McEnany continued talking out of her ass about how Trump is the man who will unite the country and continued whining about liberals not bowing down before him.Here s the video via YouTube.
The exchange between Jones and McEnany begins at the 5:00 mark.These Trump supporters are the biggest bunch of whining hypocrites in this nation, and Kayleigh McEnany is one of the biggest hypocrites and whiners of all.
Time and time again through this election she has defended Trump s horrible insults, divisive remarks, and threats on CNN and now she has the gall to call for unity?Donald Trump does not deserve respect.
After the way conservatives treated President Obama for eight years, it s time for them to get the same treatment.
Turnabout is fair play and liberals are sick and tired of taking the high road.
Conservatives certainly didn t take the high road and unite behind President Obama.
They showed so much contempt for him from the beginning that they even swore allegiance to a foreign leader rather than support the president.Trump and his pathetic team should have thought about unity the day BEFORE Trump came down that fucking escalator and announced his candidacy by calling Mexicans rapists and criminals who should be rounded up and deported.
Because words like those only divided and he did that repeatedly throughout his campaign.
Republicans certainly should have thought about unity eight years ago when they had the chance.
This call for unity by Trump is laughable and Democrats should do whatever it takes to sabotage this orange asshole s presidency for the next four years.
They don t get to sabotage President Obama for eight years without consequences.
Trump has said that his favorite verse in the Bible is eye for an eye.
Liberals and Democrats should demonstrate it for him with the same contempt Republicans showed for President Obama over all these years.Featured Image: Screenshot