You d think that in the year 2016, companies would no longer be bullied by those who advocate for fewer rights for women, but to the contrary, Lands End has just proved that simply not to be the case.The company recently featured legendary women s rights advocate and feminist Gloria Steinem in their catalog and on their website for their Legend Series featuring individuals who have made a difference in both their respective industries and the world at large.
However, many anti-choice advocates were not amused by Lands End promoting someone who pushes for women to have control over their own bodies.
They were, quite literally, bullied into ending their relationship with Steinem.One pro-lifer commented on the Lands End Facebook page: Those of us who love family, love children, are completely puzzled why you would promote a very vocal pro abortion celebrity.
Is this who you are LandsEnd?
Are you anti-child?
You want to kill off possible future customers?
Is this your message to those of us who give their very lives to feed, love and clothe our children, some of these children who also live with special needs?
Clearly not, and whoa, what a devious guilt trip, but upon their threat of boycott and shipping everything Lands End back, the company took no chances and succumbed to the harassment and gave in to the bullying.
Apparently, a Catholic school also threatened to end their relationship with the company as their uniform supplier as well.Here s Lands End official statement: We understand that some of our customers were offended by the inclusion of an interview in a recent catalog with Gloria Steinem on her quest for women s equality.
We thought it was a good idea and we heard from our customers that, for different reasons, it wasn t. For that, we sincerely apologize.
Our goal was to feature individuals with different interests and backgrounds that have made a difference for our new Legends Series, not to take any political or religious stance.
They literally just said, We thought it was a good idea to feature someone who stood for women s equality, but it wasn t, and we apologize.Way to stand with women, Lands End.
Sure, you may have lost a few religious zealots, but you could have gained a hell of a lot more back in those who admire your courage to uphold a woman s right over her own body and be equal amongst her peers in society.Here s the thing: Lands End is still going to lose customers, but this time from people who stand with women s rights, which is the majority of America.Featured image via Flickr