President-elect Donald Trump is currently trying to drown out all his insecurities after Meryl Streep absolutely gutted him in her Golden Globes speech on Sunday night.
So far, he s spent Monday trying to trash Steep on Twitter, take credit for jobs he didn t create, and now he s trying to hype up his own inauguration.
Of course, he s failing miserably at all of these but he just got called out in a major way.Apparently oblivious to the fact that the whole country knows his inauguration is an embarrassment because no respectable celebrity wants to perform for him, Trump told an insane lie about how popular his inauguration was going to be despite the fact that his parade has been significantly shortened due to its unpopularity.
Trump actually said that so many people would be attending his inauguration that all the dress shops in Washington were sold out!
He said in an interview with The New York Times: We are going to have an unbelievable, perhaps record-setting turnout for the inauguration, and there will be plenty of movie and entertainment stars.
All the dress shops are sold out in Washington.
It s hard to find a great dress for this inauguration.
Everyone is shocked by this statement especially the shopkeepers in Washington, who actually have tons of evening gowns available!
In an amazing fact-check by The Washington Post, VP and manager of Friendship Heights Neiman Marcus store Martha Slagle was quoted debunking Trump s lies: Definitely not.
You have more than a thousand evening gowns to choose from.
Slagle also said her store was stuffed with beautiful gowns and that other smaller stores always have dresses because stores stock up ahead of the inauguration in case there is a high demand (however, there doesn t seem to be).
As if this weren t humiliating enough for Trump, he s been getting destroyed on Twitter for this, and it s absolutely hilarious:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTrump is a pathological liar and psychopath.
A lie like this shows that he is truly not fit to be President.
Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images