There is certainly no love lost between CNN and the Trump Administration.
Indeed, Donald Trump himself has called the mainstream news outlet one of the most credible and trusted in the nation and world fake news for daring to report on the chaos coming out of the Trump White House.
This hairy relationship is definitely on full display on a regular basis when it comes to the host of The Lead and and State of the Union on CNN, Jake Tapper.Joining fellow CNN host Wolf Blitzer, Tapper took to the airwaves on Thursday to blast the bizarre and chaotic mess that passed for Trump s first presidential press conference since his inauguration.
Tapper said of the spectacle, in which Trump was supposed to discuss his new nominee for Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta: It was a wild press conference.
He talked about [CNN reporter] Jim Acosta more than he talked about Alexander Acosta.
He talked about Hillary Clinton more than he talked about Alexander Acosta.
Tapper then went on to say that the presser was really just a way for Trump to rant, lamenting that Trump stepped on his own messages and activities in his first month as president and instead of focusing on these accomplishments it was an airing of grievances.
It was Festivus.
It was complaints about the media.
At one point he said the leaks were real but the news is fake, which doesn t make any sense what so ever.
He said things that were not true.
If you are a soldier in harm s way right now, if you are a hungry child in Appalachia or the inner city, if you are an unemployed worker in the hallowed shell of a steel town, that s not a president who seemed rather focused on your particular needs and wants.
That s a president that s focused on his bad press.
Tapper then went one to sum it up thusly: It was unhinged, it was wild.
A lot of Americans are going to watch that press conference and think, that guy wasn t focused on me and I don t know what he was focused on.
Tapper is exactly right.
Trump is clearly losing it in a fit of rage, and there s absolutely nothing to do but to conclude that he held that press conference to attack the media and other people he perceives to be enemies.
He wanted to unload in front of a national and international audience, because he cannot accept the fact that most of what is going so wrong in his fledgling administration is the fault of his own ill-tempered, impulsive actions, and of the incompetence of his White House staff.In short, this man is in way over his head.
He is most definitely unhinged and he has the nuclear codes.Watch Tapper annihilate Trump below:Featured image via video screen capture