If Donald Trump and his team were planning to continue using the ole I forgot defense to explain all these secret meetings with Russian officials during the campaign, he should think again.Because during an appearance on the TODAY Show with Chuck Todd, Republican strategist Nicolle Wallace blew that defense out of the water by pointing out that while one Trump official could reasonably say they forgot about a meeting, it s really hard to believe that all of them could have simply forgotten that they met with Russian officials.The number of Trump officials who met or spoke to Russian officials during the campaign has only risen in recent weeks as it has been revealed that Jeff Sessions and Jared Kushner both communicated with them during the election in addition to Michael Flynn, who lied about his own contact with Russian officials and had to resign for it.
It s inexplicable now why so many people had so many meetings with so many Russians that they forgot about, Wallace said.Wallace went on to call for a 9/11-style commission to investigate Trump s Russia scandal and when Todd asked if Trump and his team could offer one big excuse to explain their actions, she made it clear that Trump is cornered.
There is none!
So many people having so many contacts and not remembering?
It doesn t make sense.
They re either the most forgetful team in political history or the most intimate with Russia.
And neither one of those labels is good for Trump and his administration.Here s the video:Jeff Sessions did not forget his meeting with Russian officials during the campaign.
He simply lied under oath about it and is making an excuse to avoid being charged with committing perjury.Donald Trump s Russia scandal only continues to get worse and his desperate attempts to distract the American public no longer work.
It s time for Congress to take this scandal seriously and investigate it.
But Republicans should not investigate it themselves.
It s clear they are too biased to do it, so they must appoint an independent commission and a special prosecutor.
It s the only way to make sure this gets done and gets done right.Featured image via YouTube