It s becoming clearer and clearer that an America under a Donald Trump presidency would be racist and nasty.
After seven years of an African-American president it seems all racists everywhere have come out from hiding, and now Trump is making them think its okay to be as horrible as they want to be.There s no greater example of this than in a recent story where an opposing high school basketball teams fans starting chanting Trump!
Trump!
Trump!
and USA!
at the home teams players who happen to be very diverse, with players who are Latino, Native American, and African-American.
Trump!
seems to now be synonymous with white pride!
Perry, Iowa is a small town, but very diverse.
Their high school principal, Dan Marburger, describes the school as, really more of an urban school in a rural setting.
Here at the high school, we are 48 percent minority.
And they embrace the diversity with open arms.
Unfortunately, not everyone who visits the school for sporting events feels the same way.The visiting basketball team from Dallas Center-Grimes apparently brought a long with them their fans who seem to hold Donald Trump s hatred of immigrants and really anyone who isn t white.Unfortunately, these sort of chants aren t new to the players of Perry High School.
Senior Shammond Ivory said: It s honestly disrespectful.
That s how I take it.
I hear it during the game, on and off the court.
Everywhere I go.
However, he takes what he hears and turns it around, saying as soon as I hear something like that, it just triggers me and it makes me strive for more and to do it for my team, coaches and my community.
With the acceptance of Trump as a legitimate candidate for President of the United States knowing how openly racist not only his rallies are, but he is himself, we as a nation need to prepare ourselves for more and more racists thinking it s okay to be assholes.
We, as a nation, need to make sure he gets nowhere near the Oval Office.Watch WHO s report of the story here:Featured image via screen capture