Donald Trump has a cocaine problem.
As Howard Dean pointed out, the recent sniffling episode at the first presidential debate is not necessarily a sign of addiction, but something funny was absolutely going on.
On Saturday as Trump was having his morning coffee?
blood of the innocent?
cocaine?
and stalking women who say mean things about him on Twitter, he surely was furious when he came across Bette Midler s profile.Referencing the latest of Trump s seemingly endless string of late-night Twitter meltdowns, Midler offered The Donald some advice stop doing coke:Trump suffers a Twitter meltdown in the wee hours of AM.
You gotta stop doing coke after 4PM or you'll be up all night!
Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) October 1, 2016And, of course, she couldn t resist mocking Trump s failing poll numbers, joking that Trump says the polls are bouncing because they are fat worthless pigs a reference to his penchant for leveling stupid insults at women who stand up to him:#Clinton is seeing a post-debate bounce in the polls.
Trump says the polls are bouncing because they are fat worthless pigs.
Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) October 1, 2016Naturally, Trump s deplorables came out to play:@BetteMidler I love the smell of liberal desperation in the morning GROSS NEGLIGENCE (@sea329) October 1, 2016@BetteMidler This is exactly what is wrong with "Hollywood" slander everyone that has a half a brain.
To many years of the "Inquirer" WeCATS (@WeCatsCorp) October 1, 2016@BetteMidler but Hillary needs to wake up so she can stop people from dying unnecessarily while Benghazi is being attacked!
Kathleen Hansen (@KathJHansen) October 1, 2016@BetteMidler You should try your hardest not to sound so ridiculous..desperate.
Stick to selfies in front of your fancy dressing room mirror Karen Perez (@karrielynn88) October 1, 2016@BetteMidler I am a deplorable and I am voting Trump!!!
Yvonne Manley (@ymjunction56) October 1, 2016Trump s treatment of women is disgusting from his attacks on Megyn Kelly after she fact-checked him or his insults leveled at Carly Fiorina s face.
While he is surely seething over Midler s latest Twitter gut-punch, one thing is for certain: Sniffles isn t going to stop making a fool of himself or embarrassing America.
Remember that on election day.Featured image via Getty Images(Craig Barritt)/screengrab