The media can t seem to get enough of the story of the Texas mother who killed her two daughters and was then shot and killed by local police.
Of course, there hasn t been any inquiry into the possible wrongful actions by the law enforcement officer who killed her by the cop-hating Black Lives Matter group.
In fact, there wasn t any outcry by the Black Lives Matter rioters when Shanika Minor shot and killed a 23 year old 9 month pregnant mother of two live children, who watched their mother bleed to death in front of them.
Why did we have to wait for Shanika Shantel Minor to make it on the FBI s 10 Most Wanted list before the general public was made aware of her gruesome crime?
Why?
Because black lives really don t matter to the race hustlers, to the media and not even to those outside of the affected community.
Blacks killing blacks is just not newsworthy.
But watch what happens when a white cop kills a black thug in self-defense.
The media just can t get to the scene of the crime fast enough.
A woman accused of murder and placed on the FBI s Top 10 Most Wanted list Tuesday was arrested Friday at a motel in Fayetteville.Shanika Shantel Minor was arrested by a Cumberland County sheriff s deputy shortly after 2 a.m. at the Airport Inn on Gillespie Street.She is being held without bail at the Cumberland County Jail until federal agents can escort her to Wisconsin, where she is wanted for murder.Minor, who is 24, allegedly shot a pregnant woman March 6 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, then fled the area, according to the FBI s Milwaukee office.
The 23-year-old victim, who was five days away from her due date, died in front of her two children, the FBI said.
Her unborn child also died.The FBI said the shooting stemmed from an argument over loud music being played in the victim s home, which was in a duplex also occupied by Minor s mother.
Apparently Minor believed that the victim had somehow disrespected her or her mother, Special Agent Chad Piontek said in a release issued Tuesday by the FBI s Milwaukee Field Office.
It is a fairly violent neighborhood.
Unfortunately, there is sometimes a street mentality about solving problems.
The day before the fatal shooting, the FBI said, Minor instigated an argument with the neighbor and, brandishing a handgun, challenged her to fight.
The FBI said Minor s mother implored her daughter not to hurt the neighbor and Minor drove away after firing a round in the air.Shortly before 3 a.m. the following day, Minor returned to the neighborhood and confronted the neighbor by the rear door of her residence, the FBI said.
Minor s mother stood between the women, trying to keep the peace, the FBI said, but Minor reached over her mother s shoulder and fired her gun, striking the neighbor in the chest.The neighbor retreated into her home and died in front of her children, and Minor left, the FBI said.
Piontek called the murder a senseless crime.
In placing Minor on the Most Wanted list, the FBI said she should be considered armed and extremely dangerous.
The agency also offered a reward of up to $100,000 for information leading to her capture.
Minor was found and arrested in Fayetteville less than three days after the agency s announcement.When it placed her on the list, the FBI said Minor might have contact with people in Missouri, Mississippi, Texas, Tennessee, Ohio and Georgia.
North Carolina wasn t among the states listed.According to the Cumberland County Sheriff s Office, someone called the county s emergency communications center at 1:28 a.m. to report that Minor was staying in Room 122 at the Airport Inn.
The caller described Minor to aid in identifying her.Deputies responded, confronted the woman in the room and, at 2:08 a.m., determined her identity and took her into custody.Via: Fayobserver