How very Presidential She s cold calculating..deceitful but she has a vagina, so that s a good enough reason for women to vote for her.
After all..it s Hillary s turn!
So vote for the wife of a rapist, who laughs about getting child rapists off with plea bargains.
It s been 16 long years without a Clinton in the White House let s make America Sleazy again!It s time to make history with the first female President because our first Historic black President worked out so well In a newly unearthed audio interview Hillary Clinton reveals how she managed to get a plea bargain for a man accused of raping a 12-year-old girl and shockingly laughs as she indicated she knew he may have been guilty.During the course of the conversation which dates from the early 1980s, Clinton, then 27, outlines how she used a mistake by the prosecution to get 41-year-old Thomas Alfred Taylor to walk free.Indeed, so cavalier is her attitude to securing the freedom of a man suspected of raping a child that the shocking and candid interview may tarnish her role as an advocate for women and children in the United States.The recordings which date from 1983-1987 were discovered by the Washington Free Beacon and are of Clinton recalling her role in the most important criminal case of her career.Who knew Killary had such a strong southern accent?This is not the first time that the trial has been written about.In 2008 at the height of her primary battle with Barack Obama, a Newsday story focused on Clinton s deeply controversial strategy of attacking the credibility of the girl.
Rodham, records show, questioned the sixth grader s honesty and claimed she had made false accusations in the past.
She implied that the girl often fantasized and sought out older men like Taylor, according to a July 1975 affidavit signed Hillary D. Rodham in compact cursive, wrote Newsday.The girl was a family friend and Clinton has acknowledged in her past 2003 memoir, Living History, the difficulties the case provided her having just moved to Fayetteville.
to run the University of Arkansas new legal aid clinic.
This guy was accused of raping a 12-year-old.
Course he claimed that he didn t, and all this stuff, says Clinton.However, what is most shocking is the breezy manner in which she discusses her clients crime and the offhand way in which she questions his innocence.
I had him take a polygraph, which he passed which forever destroyed my faith in polygraphs, she says with a laugh.Indeed, Clinton laughs during several different parts of the interview especially when she discusses the forensic lab destroying key evidence which led to Taylor getting away with the crime.But, Ronald Rotunda, a professor of legal ethics at Chapman University, told the Washington Free Beacon.
We don t have to believe the client is innocent our job is to represent the client in the best way we can within the bounds of the law.
However, he did raise the possibility that Clinton may have breached the attorney-client privilege by discussing the case so openly.
You can t do that, he said.
Unless the client says: You re free to tell people that you really think I m a scumbag, and the only reason I got a lighter sentence is because you re a really clever lawyer.
Read entire story at: DailyMailOnline