Finally!
Remember when Senator Lyndsey Graham said he s very disappointed but said, we ll deal with her later.
?
Well, they just dealt with Susan Rice Susan Rice and former CIA Director John Brennan have been subpoenaed by the House Intelligence Committee for information related to the unmasking of the Trump campaign team and others Can you believe it?
Will we finally have justice?We know that Susan Rice was a key player in this unmasking and John Brennan is as slippery as they come.
Remember how he lied to Congress?
Yes, these are the people we re dealing with.
Let s hope they finally get to the bottom of SOMETHING The Washington Examiner reports:The House Intelligence Committee has issued seven subpoenas as part of its ongoing investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections, including one seeking information about Obama s former national security adviser Susan Rice, and her activities related to intelligence documents that named members of the Trump campaign.The Journal s report said the intelligence-related subpoenas are to seek information on requests for the unmasking of names by Susan Rice, former CIA Director John Brennan, and United Nations Ambassador Samantha Power.Having subpoenas directed at former members of the intelligence committee could show that Republicans have strengthened their resolve to track down leaks from within the intelligence gathering agencies, such as the leak that described the contents of a phone call between Flynn and Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak.Susan Rice has been a target on the unmasking for some time so this should be very interesting.
Let the games begin!FLASHBACK: SUSAN RICE REFUSES TO TESTIFY: Susan Rice just announced she won t testify before the Senate on the Russian hacking.Senator Lyndsey Graham said he s very disappointed but said, we ll deal with her later.
She gave a very flimsy excuse for not testifying via her lawyer:Rice considered the invitation a diversionary play to distract attention from the investigation into Russian election interference, including contacts between Trump allies and Russians during the campaign, the source said.That s ridiculous!
Could it REALLY be that she doesn t want to testify under oath?
Ya think!According to CNN, Barack Obama s national security adviser turned down a request from Sen. Lindsey Graham to participate in the hearing.
Senator Whitehouse has informed us by letter (SEE BELOW) that he did not agree to Chairman Graham s invitation to Ambassador Rice, a significant departure from the bipartisan invitations extended to other witnesses, Rice s lawyer Kathryn Ruemmler wrote in a letter to Graham.
Under these circumstances, Ambassador Rice respectfully declines Senator Graham s invitation to testify.
Rice was the administration official who made the dozens of requests seeking to unmask the identities of Trump associates, which she said were for national security reasons and not politically motivated Read more: Daily Caller