Well, this is rich Hillary Clinton had her housekeeper print out sensitive government e-mails and documents!
The former Secretary of State lectured her employees to remind them of how to keep information secure (video below) yet she s playing loose and free with top secret documents!What if Marina Santos was a spy for a foreign government that was hostile to the US?
Ms. Santos is now in hot water and should be called upon to testify.
The big question you re probably asking about now is why the heck Santos wasn t subpoenaed?
Marina Santos could hold the secrets to Emailgate!
You REALLY can t make this stuff up!As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton routinely asked her maid to print out sensitive government e-mails and documents including ones containing classified information from her house in Washington, DC, e-mails and FBI memos show.
But the housekeeper lacked the security clearance to handle such material.In fact, Marina Santos was called on so frequently to receive e-mails that she may hold the secrets to E-mailgate if only the FBI and Congress would subpoena her and the equipment she used.Clinton entrusted far more than the care of her DC residence, known as Whitehaven, to Santos.
She expected the Filipino immigrant to handle state secrets, further opening the Democratic presidential nominee to criticism that she played fast and loose with national security.Clinton would first receive highly sensitive e-mails from top aides at the State Department and then request that they, in turn, forward the messages and any attached documents to Santos to print out for her at the home.Among other things, Clinton requested Santos print out drafts of her speeches, confidential memos and call sheets background information and talking points prepared for the secretary of state in advance of a phone call with a foreign head of state.
Pls ask Marina to print for me in am, Clinton e-mailed top aide Huma Abedin regarding a redacted 2011 message marked sensitive but unclassified.In a classified 2012 e-mail dealing with the new president of Malawi, another Clinton aide, Monica Hanley, advised Clinton, We can ask Marina to print this.
Revisions to the Iran points was the subject line of a classified April 2012 e-mail to Clinton from Hanley.
In it, the text reads, Marina is trying to print for you.
Both classified e-mails were marked confidential, the tier below secret or top secret.
Santos also had access to a highly secure room called an SCIF (sensitive compartmented information facility) that diplomatic security agents set up at Whitehaven, according to FBI notes from an interview with Abedin.From within the SCIF, Santos who had no clearance collected documents from the secure facsimile machine for Clinton, the FBI notes revealed.Read more: NYP