The internet has been destroying the Trump administration s press secretary, former Republican National Committee mouthpiece Sean Spicer.
As everyone now knows, Spicer spent his very first press briefing lying about Trump s inaugural crowd size as compared to those of President Barack Obama.
Of course, we all know that President Obama s 2009 crowd size reached historic numbers, exceeding one million people.
When comparison photos were tweeted out, this was clearly just too much for Trump s fragile ego, so he sent Spicer out to rag on the press for reporting, well, facts about Trump s pathetic crowds.Well, since this administration clearly has no issue with lying straight to the faces of the American people, Brian Fallon, the former press secretary for Hillary for America, went on CNN to weigh in on what he would have done had he ever been put in the position of lying to the American public regarding this or anything else.
Fallon said: There s clear intent.
It was a lie.
It should be called a lie.
And if he was put in the situation by [Chief of Staff] Reince Priebus or his boss, Donald Trump, to go out and tell a lie to the American people, he should have resigned rather than go out and take the podium.
Spicer, of course, lied through his teeth, and said, as he blasted the press: This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period, both in person and around the globe.
This is simply untrue, and there are photos and numbers to prove it.
But the ease of fact-checking such a thing matters not to the Trump White House.
In fact, while speaking to NBC s Chuck Todd on Sunday, Kellyanne Conway called Spicer s lies alternative facts, as if refusing to call them what they are lies makes everything just a-okay.Fallon continued, saying that he s never been asked to do any such thing, but he hoped he wouldn t do what Spicer did after being asked by CNN s Brian Stelter what he d have done if he were asked to lie like that: But I d like to think that if I ever was, I would have too much integrity to go out and look in the cameras and say something that was provably false.
Then again, Brian Fallon would never be in such a position, because a) Hillary would never ask her staff to do such a thing because she s not a petulant brat like Trump is, and b) she wouldn t need to, because her inaugural crowds would have reached record highs as well.Too bad we ll never know what could have been, and we re stuck with this orange moron for at least four years.Watch the exchange below:[ad3media campaign= 1422 ]Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images