The tried and true Donald Trump supporter doesn t care what the fuhrer does as long as he keeps saying catch phrase like we re gonna make America great again and we re gonna build a wall.
As long as they can feel superior to Mexicans, Muslims and anyone with an education as they join in beating them up for wearing an offensive shirt that claims science is real to a Trump rally.
No matter how much of a bump he gets afterwards and no matter how many times he declares himself victorious, the one thing Ted Cruz has on the Donald are his debating skills.Cruz isn t exactly a master.
His shrill voice and the condescending look he gets on his face are enough for almost anyone to be willing to risk a night in jail for hauling off and punching him.
At the end of the GOP debates, however, Cruz always got himself a nice little push in the polls.
It s amazing that the smartest guy in the Republican room ended up being the least likeable guy in Washington.
To call Ted Cruz smart in any other context is an insult to smart people.Cruz s big plan, then, is to challenge Donald Trump to another debate.
He doesn t seem to be getting the memos.
Trump is the only candidate with a mathematical chance of a secure nomination.
He s polling high in every major contest left.
His worst case scenario seems to be if the RNC screws him from his nomination with a contested convention, in which case the Republican party implodes anyway.
The whole thing really has been glorious to watch.The one thing Cruz has going for him is The Donald s over-inflated ego.
It may not allow Trump to simply back down from a senseless debate that can serve no purpose to Trump other than the loss of even more supporters.
It s a noble move on Cruz s part; bold even to suggest another debate this late in the game.
Unfortunately for him, his opponent has already kicked his political teeth down his throat and stands to gain nothing by accepting.That, of course, won t stop Ted Cruz from trying, so hopefully there are a few days of good Twitter name calling.
That s far more interesting to cover than anything the GOP buffoons are still yammering about.Featured image via Joe Raidle/Getty Images