Today, Donald Trump tried to walk back his recent comments regarding Judge Gonzalo Curiel at an evangelical summit by proclaiming no one in the United States should be treated differently based on race.As Republican (and Hispanic) commentator Ana Navarro said: Too little.
Too late.
It doesn t take a genius to see Trump is of course lying.
He, out of anyone, believes someone should be treated differently based on their race or skin color, and his comments regarding Muslims, Mexicans and his African-American supporter shows that.It remains to be seen how long it will take for the mainstream media to buy into his lies and the front he s now starting to put up.
But Hillary Clinton and her allies are certainly doing their part to remind the American public not to buy into the hype.
He s still a lying racist, and they can prove it.Compiling lists of Trump s biggest lies from the Washington Post s Pinocchio ratings and Politifact s Truth-o-Meter, pro-Clinton Super PAC Correct the Record has launched a new website, TrumpLies.com, highlighting all of the Republican nominee s lies, rants, conspiracy theories, and his deranged, inflated ego .Talking to reporters, Correct the Record president Brad Woodhouse said: People think all politicians lie.
Well, Donald Trump is of a completely different order and it helps draw the entire picture of him being a fraud and a con man.
A look at Politifact s file on Donald Trump shows a staggering number: of the 154 statements that have been fact checked, 118 (76 percent) have been false.
On average, more than three-fourths of things that come out of his vile mouth are outright lies, often packed with hyperbole, stretched statistics, and no forethought whatsoever.
He thinks he can say whatever he wants with no consequences.The website not only calls out Trump for his blatant lies, but offers strategic factual analysis to show how his promises cannot be met nor kept.
Example: it is impossible for Trump to eliminate $19 trillion of debt in eight years.
Somehow his supporters think he can do it, but every possible avenue shows that it just can t happen.
And his big, beautiful wall would actually cost way more than $8 billion.So not only does Trump Lies point out his fibbing mouth, it blows up his stupid, pie-in-the-sky policy ideas, too.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images