On some level, it s gratifying that punching Nazis in the face has become a national sport more popular than baseball.
On one hand, violence is almost always inexcusable.
On the other, they re Nazis.
Mike Cernovich, a Donald Trump ally who invented the popular right-wing lie that Hillary Clinton secretly runs a child prostitution operation out of a D.C. pizza shop s basement (the place doesn t even have a basement) showed up at a Tax Day anti-Trump rally and began screaming Bill Clinton is a rapist at the top of his lungs like a f*cking moron.
Then things got weird(er).Cernovich posted a video in which he claims he was assaulted by the crowd who was swarming around him chanting mean things.
Cernovich drew attention to himself by calling Bill Clinton a rapist, which of course invited a negative response.
At this point, no one touched him but he screamed for police to help him.
She s touching me, Cernovich said before repeating I m under assault over and over and over and over.
It s really kind of magical in a pathetic sort of way.
Man takes the stage at anti-Trump rally, declaring, Bill Clinton is a rapist!
Crowd rushes man.
pic.twitter.com/rIo4gE4RF7 Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) April 15, 2017It s funnier from another point of view:While Cernovich was not attacked in this video, another shows someone walk up and deck him in a perfect example of be careful what you wish for.
.
@Rambobiggs Violent leftist caught taking a shot at Cernovich at anti-Trump rally!
pic.twitter.com/zxF0XxckuO Mike Cernovich ??
(@Cernovich) April 15, 2017Cernovich was not injured.
In fact, as one of the videos shows, his first concern was posting the video on social media so he could capitalize on this opportunity to play the victim: I was just assaulted, so we need to go live, Cernovich says as he composes a tweet and runs away to whine to people who think #Pizzagate is a real thing.Recently, Donald Trump Jr. said that Cernovich should receive the Pulitzer for his false report that former Obama National Security Advisor Susan Rice improperly monitored the Trump campaign.Enjoy the video.
I did.Featured image via screengrab