No word on when Soros will be put on trial for paying protestors to riot or when Al Sharpton will be charged with inciting the riots with his inflammatory racist rhetoric (All comments in italics are opinions of 100% FED Up!
)According to a report from the U.S. Department of Justice, police responding to race-related protests and riots in Ferguson, Missouri, last summer made a series of missteps, including antagonizing crowds with attack dogs and military-style tactics.Yeah..because the people inciting riots, burning down businesses and threatening anyone who dared to drive through Ferguson are probably pretty credible witnesses when it comes to missteps by the Ferguson Police Department.
The report, a copy of which was obtained by Reuters, is a draft summary of a document the DOJ plans to release in the coming weeks evaluating law enforcement actions.
A Justice Department spokesperson said the after-action assessment will convey the findings and lessons learned.
The report focuses on the tactics of police from Ferguson, St. Louis, St. Louis County, and the Missouri Highway Patrol.
All four agencies tried to quell the protests and riots that broke out after a white Ferguson police officer shot and killed Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, on Aug. 9, 2014.
We are always willing to engage in constructive dialogue about best practices, the St. Louis department said in a statement.
We are interested in the final report to identify what we did well and what we may need to improve upon.
How improving number of arrests made for arsonists/rioters who burn down businesses to make a statement?
The Justice Department draft report, which covers actions over the 17 days following the shooting, found that police lacked effective protocols, were not adequately trained, struggled with communication and coordination, and made mistakes that sometimes heightened tensions.The use of dogs for crowd control during the Ferguson protests incited fear and anger in the crowd, according to the report, while the use of teargas on people without warning was also a problem.In addition, police were inconsistent in using force and making arrests, and some officers removed their nameplates to evade accountability for their actions, the Justice Department said.The report also criticized police for positioning snipers atop armored vehicles to monitor the crowd through rifle sights, saying the tactic served only to exacerbate tensions.
Yeah because why would the cops in Ferguson be concerned about their own safety when clowns like this are openly walking around advocating for violence against Officer Wilson?It found that law enforcement agencies set a negative tone with the media by initially offering limited public information about Brown s shooting.
The report also said police inhibited protesters constitutional right to free speech.In all, the report lists 45 findings along with recommendations for improvements.Via: Reuters