The families of eleven American soldiers who lost their lives serving the United States have banded together and sent a letter to Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, reacting to his attack on the family of deceased Army Captain Humayun Khan.After his father Khizr Khan spoke to the Democratic Convention, Trump asked ABC News, Did Hillary s scriptwriters write it?
Minimizing the loss of Khan s son, Trump also said: I think I ve made a lot of sacrifices.
I work very, very hard.
I ve created thousands and thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs, built great structures.
I ve had tremendous success.
I think I ve done a lot.
Karen Meredith, who lost her son Ken Ballard in Iraq, organized a letter with the families of eleven other fallen soldiers to demand an apology from Trump.
Here is the letter:August 1, 2016Donald J Trump725 Fifth AvenueNew York, NY 10022Mr.
Trump,We are all Gold Star Families, who have lost those we love the most in war.
Ours is a sacrifice you will never know.
Ours is a sacrifice we would never want you to know.Your recent comments regarding the Khan family were repugnant, and personally offensive to us.
When you question a mother s pain, by implying that her religion, not her grief, kept her from addressing an arena of people, you are attacking us.
When you say your job building buildings is akin to our sacrifice, you are attacking our sacrifice.You are not just attacking us, you are cheapening the sacrifice made by those we lost.You are minimizing the risk our service members make for all of us.This goes beyond politics.
It is about a sense of decency.
That kind decency you mock as political correctness.
We feel we must speak out and demand you apologize to the Khans, to all Gold Star families, and to all Americans for your offensive, and frankly anti-American, comments.We hope you will hear us.Sincerely,Diane and Neil Santoriello, Mother and Father of 1LT Neil Santoriello, KIA, IraqSummer Lipford-Mickelson, Mother, Frederick Sirko, Father, Kirby Mickelson, Stepfather, Laura Sirko Samimy and Bridget Sirko Gentle, Sisters of PFC Steven Sirko, KIA, Iraq.Sue and Randy Loudon, Mother and Father of 2ndLt.
Christopher Loudon, KIA, IraqMelanie House, Widow of HM3 John Daniel House, KIA, IraqDerek and Lorene Davey, Mother and Father of Cpl.
Seamus M. Davey, KIA, IraqCeleste Zappala, Mother, and Raphael Zappala, Brother of SGT.
Sherwood Baker, KIA, IraqSue Niederer, Mother of 2LT Seth Dvorin, KIA, IraqFulvio and Gilda Carbonaro, Father and Mother of Sgt.
Alessandro Carbonaro, KIA, IraqKaren Meredith, Mother of 1LT Ken Ballard, KIA, IraqSergio Torres, Father, Lupe Torres, Mother and Beatriz Saldivar, Aunt of SGT Daniel Torres, KIA, IraqMG (Ret.)
Paul D. Eaton, and Frank Eaton, sons of Col. Norman Eaton, KIA, VietnamThese families are right.
Trump does need to apologize, instead of doubling down.
Likely, he ll just launch another attack at more Gold Star families instead, though, because that is just the kind of sorry excuse for a human being he is.Featured image via Flickr