After widespread, bipartisan outrage and several high profile calls by Republican colleagues to knock it off, Donald Trump decided instead to triple down on his racist comments about the judge presiding over his Trump University fraud case and then start adding other minority groups that he also feels can t be trusted.During a sit down with CBS s John Dickerson on Face the Nation, Trump said it was common sense to keep minorities out of positions of authority or else they might be biased against people like Trump.
When Dickerson pressed Trump to justify his overtly racist attitudes by using a hypothetical Muslim judge instead of a Hispanic one, the Republican nominee said he would similarly ask that a Muslim recuse himself under the assumption that given what he has said about Muslims, the judge would be unable to give him a fair trial.It led to this mind-blowing exchange: Isn t there sort of a tradition though in America that we don t judge people by who their parents were and where they came from?
Dickerson replied.And Trump countered again, I m not talking about tradition I m talking about common sense, OK?
Trump has repeatedly insisted that he really does stand behind the accusations that the judge in his case, Indiana-born Gonzalo Curial, is a Mexican hater who wants to punish Trump for his promise to build a wall on the border.
Now he has expanded it to Muslims as well.
What group is next?Clearly a position that in more decent times would disqualify a candidate, instead Republicans have opted to tsk tsk Trump while at the same time pretend to believe that what he said isn t racist, just brash.
It s unclear whether even they buy that particularly pathetic excuse.There is, of course, little need to debunk Trump s offensive approach to the justice system, but a UCLA law professor summed it up nicely: Trump s theory is, apparently, that anyone can get any judge disqualified for conflict of interest just by saying things that the judge finds offensive enough, Volokh wrote.
Don t like the Jewish judge on your case?
Say things that are critical of Jews, and now the judge presumably has to step aside because of a conflict of interest.
Don t like the female judge?
Say things that women tend to find offensive.
Don t like the judge who was a Republican activist?
Say nasty things about Republicans.
In other words, the only person Trump thinks is qualified to judge Trump is Trump.
Or perhaps, men who share his same skin color.Watch Trump s egregious comments below:Would a Muslim judge also be out of the question here?
@realdonaldtrump: It s possible, yes.
https://t.co/49qUfRCrLV Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) June 5, 2016Featured image via CBS