Tim Allen took to Twitter to express his disappointment after discovering that the second highest rated comedy TV series on ABC, Last Man Standing was going to be cancelled:Stunned and blindsided by the network I called home for the last six years.
#lastmanstanding Tim Allen (@ofctimallen) May 16, 2017Many of his fans commented in support of his courage to stand up for his conservative views:Thanks for standing up and speaking out against the PC police for as long as you could, Tim.
Mark Dice (@MarkDice) May 16, 2017Conservative comedian Mark Dice also reminded him that his comments on a recent Jimmy Kimmel show about how it was tough to be a conservative in Hollywood, was likely the final straw that caused ABC to cancel his show: You calling out the Liberals for their insanity on Jimmy Kimmel was the last straw for the Network, but someone had to do it.
Thanks, Tim!
Mark Dice (@MarkDice) May 16, 2017A petition was started last week by Last Man Standing fans and now has over 371K signatures.
The petition asks ABC to reconsider their decision to cancel the Last Man Standing and to renew the show.
Here is the LINK to that petition:The petition to ABC reads:Despite consistently high rankings, especially considering the time slot in which it is aired, Tim Allen s show Last Man Standing has been cancelled by the network on which it is aired, ABC.
Last Man Standing stands out in the sea of network television sitcoms.
It is a show that appeals to a broad swath of Americans who find very few shows that extol the virtues with which they can identify; namely conservative values.
Last Man Standing was not just selling conservative ideals though, as some of the characters in the show are clearly of the liberal persuasion, yet the characters on the show all manage to get along and take care of one another, despite their politically opposed views.
The show is about more than politics though, it is about family.
In fact, politics is only a secondary part of the show, but one in which many Americans can readily identify.
Last Man Standing is one of the only shows on broadcast television, and the only sitcom, that is not constantly shoving liberal ideals down the throats of the viewers.
And sadly, that is likely the real reason the show has been cancelled.The intent of this petition/boycott is to attempt to get ABC to renew the show.
With that in mind, I will no longer be watching any ABC shows.
I have cancelled the DVR settings for the other ABC shows that I regularly watch.
If you want to help try to save Last Man Standing, I encourage you to do the same.
Even if you are not willing to boycott the network, but still want to save the show, please sign this petition and share it.
If you do plan to boycott ABC, please say so when you sign.
Let them hear our voices.Now, Studio 20th Century Fox Television is looking for a new home for canceled Tim Allen comedy Last Man Standing.
Speaking to Variety Thursday, studio presidents Jonnie Davis and Howard Kurtzman said that they were surprised by ABC s decision to pull the plug on the show.
That s the one that s really an open sore right now, Davis said.
Kurtzman added, We really were expecting a pickup.
The fact that we didn t get a pickup was a surprise and a disappointment.
I think no one was more disappointed than Tim Allen, such a huge star with such a huge following.
But the series, which was ABC s second most-watched comedy last season behind Modern Family, may not be dead.
Asked whether Last Man Standing would be shopped to other networks, Kurtzman said, We re starting to explore that.
If it s not going to go forward at ABC, of course Jonnie and I are hopeful that we can find another home for it.
Political and social conservatives have been vocal in their disappointment over the show s end.
Allen, its star and executive producer, is conservative and a supporter of President Trump.Speaking to reporters Tuesday, ABC entertainment president Channing Dungey denied that Last Man Standing was canceled because of Allen s right-leaning politics, and said that it was, instead, a scheduling decision.
Once we made the decision not to continue with comedy on Friday, it was just kind of that s where we landed, she said.
VarietyTime will tell if ABC s fan base is more important to them than their liberal views