After having backed Senator Ted Cruz, Duck Dynasty s redneck-in-chief and serial bigot Phil Robertson is now saying he s forced on the Trump train because the people of the Republican Party have spoken and now want Donald Trump as their nominee:I was forced onto the Trump train, but I am happily volunteering my services for Mr. Trump, mainly because the Republican Party has spoken.
The people have said we want Mr. Trump.
So Mr. Cruz goes down I love him but now I m on the Trump train and I ll do everything I can to help him.In true Republican fashion sheer ignorance Robertson says that although he isn t too familiar with Trump s record of accomplishments (or lack thereof), he will definitely be supporting him over Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders, admitting, I m taking my chances not even knowing [Trump s record].
I know the Clintons.
I m not sure about Trump.
I m with Trump.
If that doesn t sum up the sad, pathetic state of the GOP I don t know what does.But it gets even better.
Robertson has actually volunteered to be serial philanderer s personal spiritual advisor and thinks America should stand by him: I ll make a valiant attempt behind the scenes, you understand, to sit down with Donald with a Bible in between us and I might can help him along with concepts like loving your enemies, loving your god, loving your neighbor.
Even your enemies, forgive them and move on.
I may can help him in that area.
I can see it now: Trump wins and the camera s panning and his spiritual adviser is me.
Is America ready for it?
Well, America, are you ready for it?
Does it come as any surprise that the guy who thinks marrying off 15-year-old girls to full grown men is supporting the other guy who thinks his 16-year-old daughter was (is) hot?What do the two men have in common?
The are both faux Christians who think peddling bigoted and outdated religious extremism will get them the redneck, conservative support.
And they re completely right.That s some spiritual guidance right there.
That s what s going to make the presidency great again two borderline pedophilic, holier-than-though fakers running the show.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images