Donald Trump supporters casually talk to reporters while threatening to murder Hillary Clinton if she s elected.
With Donald s rigged election rhetoric, threats have increased.
His cult-like supporters follow his lead, believing the insane remarks the billionaire candidate makes.
Even the Republican Governor of Kentucky warned in October that there could be bloodshed if Hillary Clinton is elected.DeRay Mckesson shared a video on Twitter of a Trump supporter telling CNN, Hillary needs to be taken out.
If she gets into power, I ll do everything in my power to take her out of power, which, if I have to be a patriot, I will.
The reporter asked the man to clarify what he meant.
Take it any way you wanna take it, he said.Tyler Holmes, 25, of Mississippi, made an assassination threat on Facebook in which he calls another person an idiot for supporting Hillary Clinton.
He continues to say, I m only 25 but I do know how crooked the bitch is and I will plan an assassination on her if she s elected.
He casually adds, Thanks have a great day with the rest of the idiots.
#Trump.
Tyler thinks he s a real patriot, too.Tyler blocked me on Facebook and locked his page down so I can t read his page.
What I do know is that he listed his employer, and then changed that.
Apparently, Tyler is no longer employed at the company he initially stated he was working for.
He does have a girlfriend or a wife.
We wonder if she realizes the can of worms he just opened.
The Secret Service takes threats such as his very seriously.
It doesn t matter who the candidate is.
It s their job to protect candidates from the left and the right.
This isn t a game.
This is supposed to be a democracy.Homeland Security and the Secret Service have been tagged on Twitter about the latest threat to assassinate Hillary Clinton.A Trump supporter says he's going to assassinate Hillary Clinton.
Plz pay him a visit @DHSgov @SecretService #ImWithHer #GoHillary pic.twitter.com/7SZI2Z552U Commander Nasty (@Anomaly100) November 2, 2016Trump supporters are finally realizing that their candidate will likely lose the election, so threats are pouring in because they re afraid of a girl.
Deal with it, Deplorables.Featured image via Facebook