When the Bundy Moron Militia decided to illegally occupy the Malheur Federal Wildlife Reserve in Oregon, one of the things some people wondered about was what the government s response would have been had the perpetrators been black.
As it turns out, there is a precedent for that very situation if you go back in time to 1979.The nitwits in Oregon are where they are under very different circumstances.
They re taking a stand in a place where nobody wants them against an oppression that doesn t exist.
In 1979, a group of 40 African-Americans took a stand at a wildlife refuge in Georgia under very different circumstances.In 1942, the federal government took a tract of land given by eminent domain to freed slaves in Georgia after the Civil War by a wealthy plantation owner.
They came with bulldozers and destroyed churches, schools, factories and homes, paying black residents and landowners far less than whites were paid, giving them three weeks to leave.The town was called Harris Neck, and while it served as a military base during the war, it was never returned to its rightful owners; it was instead turned into a wildlife refuge.
in 1979, the 40 protesters, descendents of families ousted nearly 40 years earlier, staged a protest at the property.
It was almost like the protest the Bundy a**holes are engaged in, with a few notable differences.They showed up with backpacks and tents.
They didn t destroy any property or break into any buildings.
They were unarmed.
Their protest was actually about something that affected them, not a desperate cry for social media attention.
And last but certainly not least, they were black.The government responded a bit differently than they have to the Bundy debacle.
They didn t leave them alone with free utilities to enjoy the comfort of a taxpayer-funded rebellion; they went to court and got an order to remove them within 24 hours of their arrival.
All but four of the protesters left when served with the court order.
The government moved in and removed them by force.The Bundy terrorists are armed and have broken law after law, and still the feds haven t so much as cut their power.
The circumstances are certainly very different, but still It doesn t seem very fair, does it?Here s a video of the struggle over Harris Neck, which is still going on today:Featured image via sott.net