Did you know that in the state of Texas alone over the last few years, more than 2000 illegal aliens were deported after committing sex crimes?Did you know that in the state of Texas alone over the last few years, nearly a thousand illegal aliens have been convicted of sex crimes against children?Of course you didn t. The media has covered these horrors up for years, and even after Donald Trump dared reveal these horrors, the rape-deniers in the media continue to cover them up.
The media is covering up all kinds of horrific statistic regarding illegal aliens.
Before we get to those, let s start with why.To Democrats and their media allies, a few hundred raped children a year is seen as a small price to pay for the political benefits that come with an unsecure border.
Mexicans vote 3-to-1 for Democrats.Of the 862 alien sex offenders deported by the Texas-based offices, about 27 percent were convicted of sex offenses against children.
-BreitbartYesterday in Las Vegas, a Hispanic immigrant was been arrested for allegedly raping a toddler in Las Vegas.
The man accused of raping a 4-year-old girl and videotaping the entire sexual assault on his cellphone has been placed on an immigrant detainer.
It is not currently known if the accused child rapist is a legal or illegal immigrant.Julio Cesar Medrano, 23, also goes by the alias, Julio Rodriguez.
The Las Vegas resident was arrested on child rape charges on April 21.
The sexual assault happened on April 3, according to the time stamp on the 30-second cellphone video, police investigators.Julio Medrano was arrested after a woman found the video appearing to depict the immigrant raping the child.
A tattoo on the hand of the man in the alleged child rape video aided Las Vegas law enforcement investigators in identifying the suspect, the Daily Mail reports.Julio Medrano has been charged with seven criminal counts in connection with the child sexual assault case.
The charges levied against the Hispanic immigrant include sexual assault against a child younger than 14, child abuse or neglect, producing and possessing child pornography, possession of a dangerous weapon, and carrying a concealed knife without a permit, according to the Clark County Detention Center online records database.For entire story Inquisitr