And this woman wants to be in charge of America?
She can t even handle a Laugh Factory standup skit!
The thing that s so wrong is that the first amendment comes into play here.
You won t believe this:In what appears to be a first for a serious presidential contender, Hillary Clinton s campaign is going after five comedians who made fun of the former Secretary of State in standup skits at a popular Hollywood comedy club.A video of the short performance, which is less than three minutes, is posted on the website of the renowned club, Laugh Factory, and the Clinton campaign has tried to censor it.
Besides demanding that the video be taken down, the Clinton campaign has demanded the personal contact information of the performers that appear in the recording.
This is no laughing matter for club owner Jamie Masada, a comedy guru who opened Laugh Factory more than three decades ago and has been instrumental in launching the careers of many famous comics.
They threatened me, Masada told Judicial Watch.
I have received complains before but never a call like this, threatening to put me out of business if I don t cut the video.
Practically all of the country s most acclaimed comedians have performed at the Laugh Factory and undoubtedly they have offended politicians and other well-known personalities with their standup routines.
Tim Allen, Jay Leno, Roseanne Bar, Drew Carey, George Carlin, Jim Carrey, Martin Lawrence, Jerry Seinfeld and George Lopez are among the big names that have headlined at the Laugh Factory.
The First Amendment right to free speech is a crucial component of the operation, though Masada drew the line a few years ago banning performers including African Americans from using the n-word in their acts.The five short performances that Clinton wants eliminated include some profanity and portions could be considered crass, but some of the lines are funny and that s what the Laugh Factory is all about.
The video features the individual acts of five comedians, four men and a woman.
The skits make fun of Clinton s wardrobe, her age, sexual orientation, the Monica Lewinsky scandal and the former First Lady s relationship with her famous husband.
The Laugh Factory has appropriately titled it Hillary vs.
The First Amendment.
Masada told Judicial Watch that, as soon as the video got posted on the Laugh Factory website, he received a phone call from a prominent person inside Clinton s campaign.
He said the video was disgusting and asked who put me up to this, Masada said.
The Clinton staffer, who Masada did not want to identify, also demanded to know the names and phone numbers of the comedians that appear in the video.
Masada refused and hung up.
He insists that the comedy stage is a sanctuary for freedom of speech no matter who is offended.
Just last night we had (Emmy-award winner) Dana Carvey doing Donald Trump and it was hilarious, Masada said.
HERE IT IS: