We love this guy!
Trey Gowdy gets it and gives a lesson to a DHS thug on due process!
Yes!
For progressives, the problem isn t Islam; it is the Constitution.
Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) who was elected as a supposedly pro-gun moderate is remarkably frank:Appearing on Morning Joe to discuss the gun control measures Democratic senators filibustered for 15 hours to advance, Senator Manchin said, Due process is what s killing us right now.
Due process is killing us.
If only we lived in a dictatorship with no limit on government power, everything would be fine (never mind that the FBI dropped the ball on the Omar Mateen case).
At least it would be fine for Joe Manchin.Manchin gibbered incoherently that Mateen was on a terrorist watch list.
Not at the time of the massacre he wasn t. The FBI investigated him twice due to all the red flags he was waving, but he was effectively cleared.A gun shop warned the FBI about Mateen prior to Orlando.
But the agency didn t listen (now it has no comment).But if we just sacrifice our most basic liberties, boobs like Manchin will somehow keep us safe.It isn t just the Second Amendment that our progressive rulers want to use Islamic terror attacks as a pretext to destroy.
They aren t fond of the Fifth or Fourteenth either.
Both have due process clauses.
As even liberal Slate recognizes,If the government can revoke your right to access firearms simply because it has decided to place you on a secret, notoriously inaccurate list, it could presumably restrict your other rights in a similar manner.
You could be forbidden from advocating for causes you believe in, or associating with like-minded activists; your right against intrusive, unreasonable searches could be suspended.
And you would have no recourse: The government could simply declare that, as a name on a covert list, you are owed no due process at all.That is, you have no rights at all.Discarding the Constitution isn t enough for Vox editor Emmett Rensin; he wants to abolish private property in the name of disarming law-abiding citizens: This presents a catch-22 for leftists.
If they need to confiscate all of our property in order to take our guns, how will they prevent us from using guns to defend our property?Let s send progressives back to 2015 so that Trey Gowdy can give them a lesson in due process.