Donald Trump s presidency is falling apart.
Between the Russia investigations, his falling approval numbers and the fact that he s alienating nearly every ally we have, poor little Donny is in desperate need of some good news.
So what does every dictator worth his salt do?
Forces his staff to compliment him.On Tuesday, Trump let cameras into this very weird cabinet meeting, where after praising himself by saying that few presidents have passed more legislation than him, which is flat-out not true, he went around the table where, surprise, cabinet members also praised him.Here s a sample:This is hilarious & a reminder how bad the Dear Leader bubble has gotten.ICYMI, what Schumer is mocking?
pic.twitter.com/JuPSprEUkM Rogue CPI (@RogueCPI) June 12, 2017It didn t take long for Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer to mock Trump.
He put out a video with his staff praising his performance on the Sunday news shows.
One staffer even complimented his hair.
The last staffer was more general, saying that he loved working for Schumer and for his agenda.
That s when Schumer lost it.
He cracked up and stopped the tape before the last person at the table was able to speak.Here s the video:GREAT meeting today with the best staff in the history of the world!!!
pic.twitter.com/ocE1xhEAac Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) June 12, 2017Twitter loved it:Thank you, @SenSchumer for being the best tweeter in the United States government and giving us the opportunity to read them.
AltHomelandSecurity (@AltHomelandSec) June 12, 2017trollololol Kno (@Kno) June 12, 2017King of trolling!
Chris Rollins (@chrisrollins_) June 12, 2017Awesome!!!
Who needs SNL when we ve got Schumer.
I hope other Dems do the same thing MarnieB (@carbon_based_XY) June 12, 2017The problem is cons don t undetstand sarcasm, they don t do irony.
JohnR (@AnglerArcher) June 12, 2017Thats why Im proud to say you re my Senator and you were my Rep before that Brooklyn Snark=??
The Snark is strong in you#GeeksResist gift ?
pic.twitter.com/j9QFGrXquN Obi-Wan Kenobi ??
(@gbmnyc) June 12, 2017It is priceless and let me say Sen your hair is prefect Ellen Reeher Morris (@EllenMorris1222) June 12, 2017I could not you more Sen Schumer!
And your staff, BRAVO ???
pic.twitter.com/PfRtq6ARhm Polly Sigh (@dcpoll) June 12, 2017This, my friends, is the difference between Trump and a true leader.
Trump demands loyalty while Schumer seems to believe he needs to earn it.
Schumer has a sense of humor about his job while Trump has none, about anything.
Nothing says you re insecure in your abilities than forcing underlings to give you praise.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images