When Donald Trump launched his presidential campaign, he infamously blamed Mexican immigrants for bringing crime to America.
Specifically, he accused them of being rapists and for trafficking drugs to the United States.
He also has blamed the epidemic of heroin addiction on the southern border, as part of his campaign to blame many of society s ills on minorities (including blacks and Muslims).But unlike the vast majority of Latino immigrants who work hard and follow the law, Trump is on record vouching for the character of a convicted cocaine trafficker.
The Smoking Gun obtained the documents showing Trump engaged in the questionable defense of a shady character.In advance of Joseph Weichselbaum s November 1987 sentencing by a U.S. District Court judge, Trump wrote that the drug trafficker was conscientious, forthright, diligent and a credit to the community.
At the time Trump wrote his character reference letter, Weichselbaum, then in his mid-40s, was already a twice-convicted felon.
In addition to his 1986 plea to federal cocaine distribution and income tax charges, Weichselbaum s rap sheet included prior convictions for grand theft auto and the embezzlement of more than $130,000 from a Brooklyn manufacturing firm where he worked for a decade.The site reports that the drug trafficker provided services to Trump at the time, shuttling high rolling casino clients on his helicopter to Trump s casinos in Atlantic City (before they went belly-up and bankrupt, of course).
His firm also maintained, stored, and provided pilots for Trump s personal $10 million Super Puma helicopter.
Weichselbaum isn t even the only lawbreaking helicopter owner who rubbed shoulders with the current Republican presidential front runner.
The Smoking Gun notes another Trump pal:John Staluppi, a Colombo crime family member, was an owner of Dillinger Charter Services, which flew gamblers into Atlantic City on behalf of Trump and other casino licensees.Like other unseemly news, the diehard Trump fans who have handed him the current edge in GOP delegates are unlikely to be concerned about their idol s indiscretions.
But stories like this are sure to be fodder for Democrats and their allies in the fall, as they don t fear a tongue-lashing from Trump like Bush, Cruz, and their acolytes seem to fear.Featured image via Flickr/The Smoking Gun