21st Century Wire says If you re going to drain the swamp then the last thing you want to do is set a 500 lb crocodile loose into the marshes.
Throughout his campaign, President-Elect Donald J. Trump was adamant about getting rid of the redundant North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
So why then is he courting globalist acolyte David Petraeus?Back in 2014, The New American reported: Former general and CIA chief David Petraeus (shown), a key figure in the globalist Council on Foreign Relations and the shadowy Bilderberg network, boasted at a recent conference that the United States of America is set to be merged into the continental regime being erected under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Speaking at the Margaret Thatcher Conference on Liberty last week in London, the ex-commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan and Iraq essentially celebrated the end of U.S. independence and by extension, the demise of the Constitution.
After America comes North America, Petraeus said confidently in answering the question about what comes after the United States, the theme of the panel discussion.
Are we on the threshold of the North American decade, question mark?
I threw that away threw away the question mark and boldly proclaimed the coming North American decade, says the title now.
He also boasted about how the three economies have been put together over the last 20 years as part of the implementation of the North American Free Trade Act Undoubtedly, Petraeus is not only a devotee of NAFTA (and the TPP and TTIP), but he is a career committed globalist.What s worse however, is that after his disgraceful exit from Washington, David Petraeus has become a regular attendee at the transatlantic elite globalist confab known as the Bilderberg Meeting a meeting where North American and European corporate elites, billionaires and corrupted politicians meet in secret behind closed-door to decide the coming year s political and economic agenda completely outside of any democratic accountability.So from a globalization perspective, Petraeus has already sold US national sovereignty down the river, and into the swamp.
In terms of anything Trump was campaigning on, Petraeus would be globalist embed in his cabinet.From a military perspective, when you throw away the hype, you might find that David Petraeus is one of the most over-rated figures in US military history.
After the unmitigated disaster that was Iraq War, Petraeus was awarded the lofty title of , The Architect of The Surge, referring to the 2007 troop surge in Iraq, which itself was a complete media creation after-the-fact, designed to rehabilitate President Bush s abject failure, but also to re-inflate Petraeus s public image in the wake of his own mishandling of classified intelligence into the hands of Deep State operative Paula Broadwell the woman he was having an extramarital affair with.
Petraeus was not only incompetent as a military man (see article below), he had passed state secrets to his mistress while he was head of the CIA before resigning in 2012.Normally, a disastrous record such as this would disqualify any person from ever serving in public office again but Petraeus is special he s one of the globalists most trusted inside men.
That s why his path is constantly being paved ahead of him.Many Trump voters rejected Hillary Clinton for her own horrendous private email server debacle so why would they accept a highly compromised (and convicted) man in Petraeus.
If Trump is considering Petraeus for any role in his government this would be the absolute height of hypocrisy, and should be called out as such.Everyone should read the article below written by veteran CIA Analyst Ray McGovern.
Listen to McGovern s recent interview on Patrick Henningsen LIVE last week on Independent Talk 1100 KFNX Consortium News Exclusive: President-elect Trump s promise to drain the swamp of Washington seems forgotten like so many political promises as he meets with swamp creatures, such as disgraced Gen. David Petraeus, says ex-CIA analyst Ray McGovern .By Ray McGovern The news that President-elect Donald Trump called in disgraced retired Gen. David Petraeus for a job interview as possible Secretary of State tests whether Trump s experience in hosting The Celebrity Apprentice honed his skills for spotting an incompetent phony or not.Does Trump need more data than the continuing bedlam in Iraq and Afghanistan to understand that one can earn a Princeton PhD by writing erudite-sounding drivel about counterinsurgency and still flunk war?
Granted, the shambles in which Petraeus left Iraq and Afghanistan were probably more a result of his overweening careerism and political ambition than his misapplication of military strategy.
But does that make it any more excusable?In 2007, Adm. William Fallon, commander of CENTCOM with four decades of active-duty experience behind him, quickly took the measure of Petraeus, who was one of his subordinates while implementing a surge of over 30,000 U.S. troops into Iraq.Several sources reported that Fallon was sickened by Petraeus s unctuous pandering to ingratiate himself.
Fallon is said to have been so turned off by all the accolades in the flowery introduction given him by Petraeus that he called him to his face an ass-kissing little chickenshit, adding, I hate people like that.
Sadly, Petraeus s sycophancy is not uncommon among general officers.
Uncommon was Fallon s outspoken candor.The past decade has shown that obsequiousness to those above him and callousness toward others are two of Petraeus s most notable character traits.
They go along with his lack of military acumen and his dishonesty as revealed in his lying to the FBI about handing over top-secret notebooks to his biographer/lover, an indiscretion that would have landed a less well-connected person in jail but instead got him only a mild slap on the wrist (via a misdemeanor guilty plea).Indeed, Petraeus, the epitome of a political general, represents some of the slimiest depths of the Washington swamp that President-elect Trump has vowed to drain.
Petraeus cares desperately about the feelings of his fellow elites but shows shocking disdain for the suffering of other human beings who are not so important.In early 2011 in Afghanistan, Petraeus shocked aides to then-President Hamid Karzai after many children were burned to death in a coalition attack in northeastern Afghanistan by suggesting that Afghan parents may have burned their own children to exaggerate their claims of civilian casualties and discredit the U.S., reported The Washington Post, citing two participants at the meeting.
Killing 60 people, and then blaming the killing on those same people, rather than apologizing for any deaths?
This is inhuman, one Afghan official said.
This is a really terrible situation.
Yet, on other occasions, the politically savvy Petraeus can be a paragon of sensitivity like when he is in danger of getting crosswise with the Israel Lobby.Never did Petraeus s fawning shine through with more brilliance, than when an (unintentionally disclosed) email exchange showed him groveling before arch-neocon Max Boot, beseeching Boot s help in fending off charges that Petraeus was anti-Israel because his prepared testimony to a congressional committee included the no-brainer observations that Israeli-Palestinian hostility presents distinct challenges to our ability to advance our interests and that this conflict foments anti-American sentiment, due to a perception of U.S. favoritism for Israel.
Meanwhile, al-Qaeda and other militant groups exploit that anger to mobilize support.
So, telling the truth (perhaps accidentally in prepared testimony) made Petraeus squirm with fear about offending the powerful Israel Lobby, but he apparently didn t hesitate to lie to FBI agents when he was caught in a tight spot for sharing highly sensitive intelligence with Paula Broadwell, his mistress/biographer.
But, again, Petraeus realized that it helps to have influential friends.
A court gave him a slap on the wrist with a sentence of two years probation and a fine of $100,000 which is less than he usually makes for a single speaking engagement Continue this article at Consortium NewsREAD MORE BILDERBERG NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Bilderberg Files