Welcoming a pro-life, pro-marriage leader at the White House with a crowd of abortion and gay rights activists, is as classy as hosting an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting with an open bar.
Mike Huckabee said Tuesday that Barack Obama pretends to be a Christian, after the president s guest list for Pope Francis White House welcome ceremony included a short list of Catholics and other Christians who haev visibly parted with Church doctrine.
Huckabee told Newsmax TV that he is concerned about a guy that believes he s a Christian, and pretends to be and then says he is, but does things that makes it very difficult for people to practice their Christian faith.
I m disappointed if a person says, I m a Christian, but you invite the Pope into your home and then you invite a whole bunch of people who are at odds with the Catholic Church policy.
I think there s something very unseemly about that.
The guest list for Wednesday morning s pomp and circumstance on the South Lawn of the White House included a pro-choice nun, a transgender woman and an openly gay retired Episcopal bishop plus a Roman Catholic teacher from suburban Philadelphia who was fired this year for marrying her girlfriend.Gene Robinson, the first openly gay Episcopal bishop, divorced his partner last year after previously divorcing his first spouse, a woman.Margie Winters, the suburban Philadelphia educator, said Monday that she hoped the pontiff would address issues facing gay Catholics during his visit to the U.S.The 50-year-old Winters lost her job as religious instruction director at Waldron Mercy Academy in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, in June over her 2007 same-sex marriage.Winters says the school principal knew she was gay and married to Andrea Vettori, clinical director at a health center for the homeless, when she was hired eight years ago.Her invitation to join a crowd of 11,000 on Wednesday morning came via the Human Rights Campaign, an gay-rights activist group.Huckabee was answering a question Tuesday night about whether Muslim politicians should be disqualified from running for president.
There is no religious test for a person to hold public office in America, he said.
I m less concerned about what faith a person has.
I m more concerned about the authenticity of their faith and how that plays out in their policies.
Huckabee lashed out at Obama on Tuesday in an essay published by The Daily Caller, saying he shows total disrespect to millions of Americans by transforming Pope Francis White House visit into a politicized cattle call for gay and pro-abortion activists.
Via: UK Daily Mail Online