A meteorologist wearing a rather classy dress was shocked when a male anchor humiliated her on air because he felt her clothing was inappropriate.
In a scene straight out of the 1920 s, KTLA5 anchor Chris Burrous decided that Libert Chan s dress was a huge problem large enough to interrupt her reporting of the weather with the BREAKING NEWS that he felt she was dressed like a dirty, dirty harlot.As she was delivering the wind report, Chan noticed a hand entering the frame.
That hand was clutching a drab, gray sweater.
What s going on?
Chan asked.
You want me to put this on?
Why?
Because it s cold?
We re getting a lot of emails, Burrous explained as he thrust the sweater forward.
What!
a shocked Chan replied.
echoing the sentiments of any reasonable person watching the broadcast.
Really?
Chan smiled uncomfortably as Burrous put the sweater on her in the middle of her report.
There you go, he said condescendingly.
I look like a librarian now, she said as she attempted to process what had just happened.
That works, the anchor responded.
It s a librarian who s gone to a cocktail party.
Everyone s got an opinion about your dress this morning.
Interestingly, Chan had just spent a considerable amount of time off camera where she could have been approached about her dress if there was a problem (but, of course, there wasn t a single issue with her clothing).
The anchor, however, chose to shame her on camera simply because she looked good in what she was wearing.
I m sorry but the other dress didn t work, Chan told her asshole of a coworker.
I had to wear something.
The rest of Chan s report was uncomfortable, with the meteorologist doing a spectacular job of masking the rage that was building inside her after she was shamed for simply wearing a piece of clothing.
At one point, she broke into nervous laughter.
I m trying to hold it together in my little sweater, she explained.Unlike Burrous, she managed to keep things professional the rest of her time on-air.
The male anchor was correct, though.
Everyone does have an opinion on Chan s dress more specifically, his reaction to it.
Unfortunately, he s not going to like those opinions: Just to add some perspective, these are the hugely professional shorts Burrous was wearing as he shamed his coworker:The station has not yet released a statement, but anything less than Chris Burrous has been fired, and we apologize for shaming our incredibly talented meteorologist who deserves a raise is inadequate.Watch it below, via Raw Story:Featured image via screengrab