Democrats are more pissed off with Trump s behavior than Republicans, because Republicans apparently feel they need to march in lockstep with the president when the president is a Republican.
Trump s behavior on Twitter, even though he s taken office and is supposed to be acting presidential, is abominable, and some members of Congress are sick of sugarcoating it.Rep.
Kathleen Rice spoke to Wolf Blitzer on CNN, where she blasted Trump and his immaturity, and his inability to let personal slights go.
She actually told Blitzer that his behavior was worse than juvenile: It s juvenile.
It s actually an insult to actual juveniles to say that it s juvenile I don t even know what category to put this in.
Yep, a U.S. Representative went on national cable news to say that Trump is so immature it s insulting to kids to say so.
And she s right he went on a tear against Judge James Robart, the U.S. district judge who blocked Trump s Muslim ban, and even told his followers to blame Robart if something happens, because the decision means that anyone and everyone can just enter the country on a whim.He s repeatedly blasted The New York Times as being fake news (same with CNN).
He blasts Saturday Night Live because they make fun of him (who don t they make fun of?).
He couldn t let reports that his inauguration numbers were less-than stellar go for nearly two weeks.
And the list goes on, and on, and on, ad infinitum and ad nauseam.
He can t let anything go, and Rice touched on that, too, when she said: And I m hoping that he stops with the name-calling and the attacking every time someone says if it s a poll he doesn t like, if it s a comment that he doesn t like, if it s a court decision he doesn t like that s part of life.
Exactly.
It s part of life and it s a big part of life when you re a public figure, particularly a public political figure.
The fact that she felt she had basically had no words for the level of immaturity Trump shows, and was willing to say so on national television, is very telling.
Watch her full comments below:Rep. Kathleen Rice on Trump s name-calling: There s a certain amount of decorum that we expect from our president https://t.co/uh6WIwKPa1 CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) February 6, 2017Read more:Featured image via screen capture from embedded video