Long before presidential scandals were as serious as conflicts of interest and obstruction of justice, conservatives had to content themselves with bashing President Obama over every small thing however silly.
Naturally, those criticisms have come back to haunt them as their own new president s bull in a china shop approach to governance means he does every single thing conservatives once accused Obama of doing but worse.It s exposed the conservative media as a clown car overflowing with hypocrites.
Before FBI investigations and Russian collusion, this is the sort of thing conservative reporters spent weeks endlessly covering:Even nearly a decade later, the comment section on sites like Breitbart and InfoWars feature commenters who love to attack President Obama for this supposed bow.
Ironically, the fact that they can t think up anything better to criticize him for inadvertently highlights how relatively scandal-free Obama s presidency was.That hasn t stopped Fox News.
The network seemed eager to smear Obama during its coverage of Trump s visit to the Middle East.
In an hilariously half-baked report on foreign policy, Fox ran with this headline early into Trump s Saudi Arabian visit.
Ugh.That headline becomes extremely awkward when the latest video from Trump s visit emerged: The man conservatives say is an alpha male leader gave a small curtsy after he was presented with a medal in Saudi Arabia.Unlike Obama, tRump didn't bow, he curtsied.
???
pic.twitter.com/TH50aJlGW6 BluePixie (@BluePixie3) May 20, 2017What a bold presidential gesture!
I m sure Fox News will cover it with just as much seriousness as they had Obama s trip to Saudi Arabia, right?Here s another angle.
That s definitely a curtsy.Trump once criticized Obama for bowing to foreign leaders (as is customary).Trump CURTSIES instead.
pic.twitter.com/SOEZy7IqGx Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) May 20, 2017In Trump s defense, he is uniquely susceptible to flattery.
Giving Trump a medal or praising him are extremely easy ways to get him to do what you want.
In Saudi Arabia s case, the small gold token seems to have been enough to compel Trump to rubber-stamp a $110 billion arms deal (including weapons Obama had withheld from the Saudis for fear they would be used in war crimes) and an additional $200+ billion investment deal.And Trump got to get a shiny medal!
A win-win.Featured image via Twitter