Even Fox News is not pleased about Sean Hannity citing unscientific polls to claim that Donald Trump won the first debate with Hillary Clinton.Not long after the Republican nominee finished being clubbed by his Democratic opponent, the Fox News host was quick to use online polls as proof that Trump was victorious, even though such polls are often flooded by Internet users to skew the results in favor of one candidate or the other.
I ll give you the list of polls, Hannity crowed before listing Time Magazine, Drudge Report, CNBC, The Hill, and CBS as online polls that said Trump won.
The only one that has Hillary winning is CNN and they re the Clinton News Network anyway, Hannity complained.
CNN s poll had 500 respondents.
These polls have thousands of respondents and CNN is the Clinton News Network.
But all of these polls were online polls that are easy to manipulate and are simply inaccurate.And that why Fox News vice president of public-opinion research Dana Blanton sent out a memo calling out Hannity and other Fox hosts for using such polls .
As most of the publications themselves clearly state, the sample obviously can t be representative of the electorate because they only reflect the views of those Internet users who have chosen to participate, Blanton wrote.
Another problem we know some campaigns/groups of supporters encourage people to vote in online polls and flood the results.
These quickie click items do not meet our editorial standards.
News networks and other organizations go to great effort and rigor to conduct scientific polls for good reason.
They know quick vote items posted on the web are nonsense, not true measures of public opinion.
Unfortunately, despite the fact that Fox News acknowledged that these polls are unscientific and should not be cited by their on-air personalities, Hannity and others apparently ignored the memo and continued touting them.Of course, it s pretty clear why Hannity would rather tout online polls.
After all, a real scientific poll like one conducted by Public Policy Polling after the debate shows that most people surveyed said Clinton won the debate 51 percent compared with only 40 percent who said Trump won.In addition, the poll not only shows that Clinton won by a landslide among young voters, blacks, Latinos, and women, she beat Trump handily in more specific categories as well.By a 17 point margin, 55/38, voters say Clinton has the temperament to be President.
On the other hand, by an 11 point margin, 42/53, voters say Trump does not have the temperament to be President.
Among independents the gap is even wider- by a 56/36 spread they say Clinton has the temperament for the job, while by a 41/54 spread they say Trump does not.By an 11 point margin, 52/41, voters say Clinton is prepared to be President.
On the other hand, by a 10 point margin, 42/52, voters say Trump is not prepared to be President.By a 21 point margin, 56/35, voters say they think Clinton can be trusted with nuclear weapons.
On the other hand, by a 9 point margin, 42/51, voters say they think Trump can not be trusted with nuclear weapons.Once again, science proves that Hannity and Fox News are full of shit.Featured Image: Screenshot