Now that Indiana governor Mike Pence has officially been announced as Donald Trump s running mate, it s important to understand exactly who he is and what his stances on key issues are.
Those who were expecting Trump to select a more moderate VP pick are going to learn really fast that Pence is anything but moderate.During a segment on MSNBC s AM Joy, an expert on Christian fundamentalism made it very clear that Pence is a dangerous right-wing radical, especially concerning his views on women s healthcare rights.The show s host, Joy Reid asked Sharlet what his thoughts on Pence are concerning the nexus between evangelicalism and Republicanism in Washington.
Sharlet answers, calling Pence a broker between the two.
To understand Mike Pence and to understand that kind of religious conservative politics, you have to not think of social conservatism and fiscal conservatism as separate, but like Mike Pence say, Our goal, our mission, is to marry fiscal and moral values.
He sees them as one in the same, so when you go back in his record and you look at his speeches about abortion, which are really something, Sharlet answered.
He is probably the most anti-abortion presidential or VP candidate we ve had.
You see him also bringing in financial.
He sees it if we don t stop abortion, our economy will collapse.
So he s the guy who sort of stands in the middle between those two factions of the Republican Party.
At that point, Reid brings up Pence s record regarding abortion, Planned Parenthood, and his failures as a leader during a recent HIV outbreak, saying: On abortion, he signed a law as Indiana governor banning abortions because of genetic anomalies, abortions that were unfortunate anomalies, and he also signed a law mandating, and this is weird, women who have a miscarriage or an abortion had to have a burial for the fetus and must cremate after a miscarriage or abortion.
On LGBT rights, he signed a law allowing religious beliefs as a defense against discrimination in lawsuits, and then after a backlash, he s revised the law to exclude LGBT discrimination which got him in trouble with conservatives in Indiana.
On prison, he reinstated a ten-year mandatory minimum drug sentencing, said Reid.That s only a small sampling of what Sharlet and Reid had to say about Pence s record.
It s very clear that the GOP has no interest in supporting even a faux-moderate candidate this election judging by the support he is receiving.The bottom line is that Pence is too dangerous to allow into office.
Find out more on why by watching the segment below:https://youtu.be/-3aUzRornckFeatured image from video screenshot