Like clockwork, the dregs of the conservative movement crawled out of their holes (and Twitchy comment sections) to stand with disgraced, now-former ESPN analyst Curt Schilling.
His principal defender: Sarah Palin, a woman with enough hate in her heart to spread it around generously and with absolutely no job she could risk losing by doing so.The one-time baseball great had finally struck out with ESPN after posting (yet another) ugly hate-filled Facebook rant to his followers.
Having been repeatedly warned by the network that his unabashed bigotry was out of line and needed to be curtailed if he wanted to continue to be a public figure, Schilling decided it would be a great time to begin bullying transgender people.
On his page, he shared a conservative meme that depicts a man dressed as a woman with a caption reading: LET HIM IN!
To the restroom with your daughter or else you re a narrow minded, judgmental, unloving, racist bigot who needs to die!!!
After the initial blowback, Schilling created a blog post defending his belief that trans people are using public restrooms to prey on little girls (a pants on fire level lie) in a rant that had people seriously concerned for his mental well-being.You frauds out there ranting and screaming about my opinions (even if it isn t) and comments are screaming for tolerance and acceptance while you refuse to do and be either.YOU RE the ones making it the issue.
I don t care, if you ask me about any of the topics it s likely (much to the chagrin of many) I ll answer with my opinion.Sarah Palin was appalled that Schilling had been canned from ESPN for his bigotry, so she decided to do something: Post an equally offensive meme bullying the trans community in solidarity with his.
(Bonus points if you noticed the meme somehow managed to blame President Obama!
)https://www.facebook.com/sarahpalin/posts/10154153457003588:0And thus we get a glimpse into the mindset of Sarah Palin.
The real victim, in her view, is the hapless conservative who isn t allowed to spread vicious lies about a vulnerable group and still be allowed to have a job as the face of a major television network.
To support her fellow conservative, Palin lashes out at the LGBT community who, it should be noted, were not responsible for Schilling s pink slip.What s the word for this?
Dangerous?
Pathetic?
Idiotic?
How about cowardly ?Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images