Florida Republicans have sponsored a bill that would literally ban all abortions except in cases where the woman s health and/or life is threatened by the pregnancy.
If passed, the bill, HB 865, would make sure any and all abortion providers would spend up to 30 years in prison for defying the law.As if that weren t bad enough, the hearing for the bill featured a horrible racist by the name of Paul, who said that white culture was under threat due to legal abortion.
The legislators in the chamber allowed this man to go on an absolutely racist rant, in which he said, in part: We see the destruction we re bringing upon ourself as a nation.
The Muslims, they don t kill the babies.
Paul then went on to say that white people do not live on an island and the Mexicans breed faster because they don t believe in abortions.
Then this absolutely crazy man went all in with a mix of nutty religion and disgusting racism: Their race is through the breeding of having families, children.
And what happens is once you see the condition we re in, we re destroying ourselves and destroying our families, we ve accepted something in this country that the Creator that we re going to pay for.
You don t see us as a culture, as a white culture, pushing this agenda of abortion, women outside the home not having babies, everybody getting more and more and more?
We re a sick nation and if we don t repent then the people leading our government, you are legislating morality by the laws you pass.
You are legislating religion and morality by the laws that we pass as a people, and it s destroying us as a nation.
After thanking the chamber for letting him speak, Paul reminded them to repent once more: It s either repent or perish America.
That s the way it is.
The scary part of this is the fact that the bill passed the committee with a whopping 8-3 vote.
So, in other words, Florida is about to go back to the desperation of the pre- Roe v. Wade days,when women were dying in back alley chop shops and from self-administered coat hanger abortions.Watch the video of Paul s racist rant on this scary bill below:Featured image via screen capture from Raw Story