Another bit of news from the past has come back to haunt Donald Trump s already imploding campaign.Only days after an Entertainment Tonight clip went viral showing Donald Trump talking about how he will be dating the 10-year-old girl he just met in ten years, the Chicago Tribune dug into their own archives to find another disturbing news blurb quoting Trump speaking to a pair of 14-year-old girls in 1992.
In a December 1992 wire brief in the Chicago Tribune, Trump is described as having spotted a youth choir singing Christmas carols at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, the Tribune reported.
He asked two girls how old they were.
When they said they were 14, Trump, then 46, replied, Wow!
Just think in a couple of years, I ll be dating you.
Here s the news clipping via the Chicago Tribune.
The bit about Trump is at the lower right hand corner under the yellow highlight.There you have it.
Donald Trump jumped from disgustingly talking about him dating a 10-year-old girl in ten years to directly telling two 14-year-old girls that he will be dating them in two years.
For the record, both girls would still be considered minors under the law.
Furthermore, Trump s own daughter Ivanka was 11-years-old at the time, which makes these revelations even creepier.Trump has been under fire for over a week now since his remarks about groping women came to light.
Accusations of sexual assault from multiple women, including Miss Teen USA contestants who have revealed that Trump walked in on them in their dressing room to see them naked, have flooded the media ever since and the Republican nominee is struggling to explain himself and his predatory behavior.These revelations also give more credibility to a child rape case that Trump is currently embroiled in, which goes to a status conference in December that Trump must attend.
The lawsuit was filed by a woman only known as Jane Doe, who says Trump raped her in 1994 when she was 13 years old.And given the fact that Trump apparently likes openly hitting on underage girls, it sounds like Jane Doe has a case.Donald Trump is a sick man and a pervert who should not be anywhere close to being President of the United States.
But Republicans chose him to be their leader and now America is living a nightmare that can only end if Trump and the GOP loses by a total landslide on November 8th.Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images