Morning Joe is on MSNBC, which is supposedly the left-wing political news and opinion network.
Its host, Joe Scarborough styles himself as a moderate conservative willing to criticize the nutjob faction of his own party, and in many instances he is.
He dresses this up by having left-leaning co-hosts like Mika Brzezinski and Willie Geist, along with frequent guests who are also Democrats, like former Democratic Congressman Harold Ford, Jr.
However, Scarborough never lets us forget that he is still a Republican, and still holds, at least on some level, some of the GOP s most despicable and bigoted views.
This was definitely on display Wednesday morning, when the talk turned to President Obama s legacy and his overall presidency in comparison to supposedly improving approval numbers for our newly elected orange buffoon, Donald Trump.
That s when Scarborough made this shockingly racist statement: Obama came in as black Jesus.
I don t want to come in as redneck Jesus if I m a president of the United States.
You want to come in where people like Ronald Reagan actually underestimate you.
And the media, once again, has done Donald Trump a great favor.
What have they told us over the past week?
He s a white supremacist, he s a Nazi, he s bringing Nazis back to America.
Scarborough ended his tirade by calling his colleagues in the press fools in their attempts to derail and bludgeon Trump in the wrong way.
They set the bar so low, Donald Trump says there s a bar, I m going to walk over it.
For one thing, Joe Scarborough, that is about as racist as it gets.
Of course there were high expectations for President Obama.
He is the first African American man to be elected not once, but twice, and in record numbers.
No matter what one thinks of the man himself or of his policy prescriptions, that fact alone makes his presidency an historic one, and puts an amazing amount of pressure upon him.Secondly, his presidency is far from a failure.
Despite the fact that GOP Senate Leader Mitch McConnell and the rest of the obstructionists in your party had one goal and one goal only in mind to make sure Obama failed and lasted just one term he still got plenty done.
He cleaned up the economic mess George W. Bush left the nation and world in, got record numbers of Americans health insurance, made the military a safer place for LGBTQ people, got rid of the bigoted Defense of Marriage Act, and secured marriage equality for all.
This and so much more happened on President Obama s watch, with your party of obstructionists blocking him all the way.As for Donald Trump?
No one called Trump himself a Nazi.
However, there is no denying that he has spent his entire ugly, repugnant campaign playing footsie with neo-Nazis, Klan members, and other assorted racist bigots.
Hell, he s done such a good job of that he actually has the gall to put a literal white supremacist steps from the Oval Office, and nominate a man who was deemed to racist to be a federal judge to run the entire Justice Department.
No, there s no denying which direction Trump swings when it comes to race.So, in other words, check your racism, Joe Scarborough.
You re dead wrong on this one.
You re just one more piece of proof that even so-called reasonable Republicans are still as racist as they come.Watch the full exchange here:Featured image via video screen capture