Even more reason to believe it s a good thing Hillary Clinton isn t formulating U.S. foreign policy:Footage from Libya recently released showed young men from sub-Saharan Africa being auctioned off as farm workers in slave markets Yes, slave markets!
Horrible!
Eight hundred, says the auctioneer.
900 1,000 1,100 Sold.
For 1,200 Libyan dinars the equivalent of $800.
Not a used car, a piece of land, or an item of furniture.
Not merchandise at all, but two human beings.One of the unidentified men being sold in the grainy cell phone video obtained by CNN is Nigerian.
He appears to be in his twenties and is wearing a pale shirt and sweatpants.He has been offered up for sale as one of a group of big strong boys for farm work, according to the auctioneer, who remains off camera.
Only his hand resting proprietorially on the man s shoulder is visible in the brief clip.
After seeing footage of this slave auction, CNN worked to verify its authenticity and traveled to Libya to investigate further.Carrying concealed cameras into a property outside the capital of Tripoli last month, we witness a dozen people go under the hammer in the space of six or seven minutes.
Does anybody need a digger?
This is a digger, a big strong man, he ll dig, the salesman, dressed in camouflage gear, says.
What am I bid, what am I bid?
Buyers raise their hands as the price rises, 500, 550, 600, 650 Within minutes it is all over and the men, utterly resigned to their fate, are being handed over to their new masters.
And how did we get to this point?
As the BBC reported back in May, Libya has been beset by chaos since NATO-backed forces overthrew long-serving ruler Col. Moammar Gadhafi in October 2011.
And who was behind that overthrow?
None other than then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.You broke it, Hillary.
You own it.Bush 43 had a deal with Gadhafi, according to which the dictator abandoned his weapons of mass destruction in return for not getting deposed.
Obama and Hillary reneged on the deal, resulting in the creation of an ISIS/al Qaeda terrorist wonderland in a country that had been neutralized; a flood of largely unassimilable refugees into Europe; America becoming established in the international mind as untrustworthy, so that other dictators will be unlikely to follow Gadhafi s lead and give up nuclear/biological weapons programs peaceably; and black African slavery.On the positive side, it gave Hillary a chance to laugh merrily as she let loose with this zinger:Libyans importing slaves from south of the Sahara and the chaos in the Middle East is on Hillary.Via: moonbattery