The short answer?
I don t think so, but it s possible.The other day on Morning Joe, the Democratic presidential frontrunner said the following during a phone-in interview with the MSNBC morning show hosts: I guess at the end of the day, for me you know, people talk about their extraordinary grandchildren, but I actually have one and we re going to do everything we can to give her opportunities.
And we re going to do everything we can to give her opportunities.
But it s not enough.And I think too many people are forgetting what are some of the biggest determinants as to what happens to your children and grandchildren.
The first being what kind of country we are and whether we re still providing the opportunities to realize your promise and potential and what kind of world s going to be out there waiting.And I feel passionately that just because we had it in the past, doesn t mean we re going to keep it in the future.
You shouldn t have to be the granddaughter of a former president to have your American Dream realized.
I think every kid should have a chance to live up to her god-given potential.
A debate has erupted online in which Bernie Sanders supporters are suggesting that Clinton s remarks about how she actually has a grandchild is a not-so-subtle jab at the fact that Sanders has seven grandchildren through his current wife of 27 years, Jane O Meara Sanders, whose three children were from her previous marriage.To be clear, Clinton launched into a long answer to a question from Mika Brzezinski that began with something about the contrast between her and the other Democratic candidates plural.
But there was a long section preceding her grandchildren remarks about what she intends to do and what her qualifications are.
Then the thing about the grandkids.
So, there wasn t an explicitly Sanders-oriented context for her remarks.But if this was, in fact, a cut at Sanders, it s confounding as to why she would make such an esoteric remark.
What does she gain with Democratic voters by implying that her grandchild is legitimate, while Sanders grandchildren somehow aren t?
I mean, how many primary voters know that much about Sanders family?
I ve been following Sanders career for ten years now, and I had no idea he was even married until recently much less that he had three step-kids and seven step-grandchildren.
I also didn t know until today that three of his grandkids were adopted from China.One blogger, Shane Ryan, observed that Sanders, during his stump speeches, often refers to his grandkids as extraordinary.
I tried to confirm this, but didn t turn up any transcripts or pullquotes to verify it.
So, chances are if true very, very, very few people know that Sanders uses the word extraordinary to describe his grandkids, making Clinton s jab if intentional even more obscure.Is Clinton capable of lashing out when backed into a corner?
Sure.
Is it possible she intended to randomly criticize Sanders grandkids via some sort of twisted political calculation?
Absolutely.
But it d be terrible politics.
You don t mention families much less criticize the origins of an opponent s children.
The topic is off limits.
By doing so, she d only make herself look like terrible human being.One thing enemies and fans alike can agree upon: she s smart enough and experienced enough to understand blowback.
Seriously, what kind of Democratic primary voter would get her attack and then vote against Sanders because his seven grandkids aren t biological, while Clinton s grandchild is blood-related?
It seems like there s more risk than reward in such a gambit.So what do you think?
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0iaI3YRCiw] Featured image via video screen grab.