The White House s official website used to have lengthy pages on several topics, including climate change, the ACA, LGBTQ rights and civil rights, among other things.
The instant the clock struck noon in Washington, though, Trump and his admin furiously began scrubbing the site of pretty much everything they don t like.Obama once had a very long and detailed page dedicated exclusively to fighting climate change, which is an issue that s growing in importance.
2015 was once the hottest year on record.
Now 2016 is the hottest year on record.
In other words, the planet is heating faster and faster, according to real science, but Trump and his administration still seem to think climate change is either a hoax, or it s a nuisance to be destroyed.Otherwise Trump wouldn t have appointed Scott Pruitt, a lying climate denier as head of the EPA, which he also happens to be suing (or was).Scientists have been scrambling to preserve as much government climate data as possible in recent weeks, downloading everything to a network of servers in Canada where Herr Trump can t touch it.
And now their fears that Trump wants to squash talk of man-made climate change are starting to play out.Trump s only mention of anything having to do with the environment is his America First Energy Plan.
That plan is committed to rolling back EPA rules and expanding fossil fuel operations because that s obviously the magic bullet we need for jobs, energy growth and the environment (the truth was spoken by a coal miner who, on Dec. 22, blasted any ideas that we can actually bring coal jobs back to coal country to smithereens).Where once there was a fount of information, a search for climate change, global warming, and anything along those lines on the White House s site suddenly reveals a whole lot of nothing.
It s completely normal for whitehouse.gov to change rapidly with an incoming administration, but it doesn t appear to be customary to scrub all references to absolutely everything the incoming administration has been sneering at the whole time.Motherboard s Jason Koebler made this all the more ominous by saying: Scientists I ve spoken to who are archiving websites say they expect scientific data on the NASA, NOAA, Department of Energy, and EPA websites to be neglected or deleted eventually.
They say they don t expect agency sites to be updated immediately, but expect it to play out over the course of months.
This sort of low-key data destruction might not be the type of censorship people typically think about, but scientists are treating it as such.
Do we really have to wonder whether Trump will try and censor all climate change information everywhere?
No, we really do not.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images