Eight years ago, the right-wing media was obsessed over a White House controversy.
It seemed that the newly elected President Barack Obama was unfit for office because he *gasp* used Dijon mustard as a condiment.In news from eight years ago that appears to be from some alternate reality, Obama left the White House and went out for a local bite to eat with vice president and BFF Joe Biden in May.
The two politicians ordered hamburgers, MSNBC journalist Andrea Mitchell reported at the time, with the sitting president requesting mustard on his red meat.Source: NewsweekHere s Sean Hannity covering the travesty.To be fair, Donald Trump suffered his own condiment scandal when during his first D.C. dinner as President, he ordered a well done steak with ketchup, and the outrage to that was a bit over the top as well:Trump putting ketchup on his steak is really the only thing you need to know to fully comprehend how terrible of a person he is.
eat the rude (@MrNotWell) May 25, 2017It s well documented that trump likes his steak well done with ketchup..ya know like a child.
Chef @FlowGo37 how do u feel about this?
Greg Gurenlian (@GregBeast32) May 24, 2017Of all the horrible news to learn this week: Trump eats his steak with ketchup!
#impeach45 Sydney Back (@SkidneyBack) May 24, 2017Just found out Trump eats his steak with ketchup.
That honestly tells me everything I need to know about the man.
Steven Ormsbee (@thelastormsbee) May 23, 2017Just when I think Trump can t sink any lower, he does just that.
THE MAN PUTS KETCHUP ON STEAK THE SICK FUCK.
Justplainandy (@justplainandy) May 21, 2017By far the worst thing Trump has done is eat a well done steak with ketchup.
How is this man not in jail?
Stephen A Davis (@SDIllustration) May 20, 2017The difference, of course, is that eight years ago, this was the best they had to disparage our President.
Today, we only wish his choice in condiments was the worst we could say about Trump.
As for Fox, they were so desperate to tear down a scandal-free administration, and they are equally desperate to turn the most scandal-ridden administration in history into something palatable.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images