The investigation into possible collusion between Donald Trump s 2016 presidential campaign and Russia is heating up.
On Monday, former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates testified before a subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee, along with former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper.
There were bombshell revelations in that testimony that directly contradicted the accounts regarding the actions and conduct that led to the firing of former National Security Adviser Mike Flynn that were told by the White House.
Now, as the lies keep being exposed, Trump has gone even further into the arena of attempting a cover-up of the whole Russia deal by firing FBI Director James Comey.Now, it could be argued that Comey had his thumb on the scale for Trump, considering the letter he sent to House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz just eleven days from Election Day that detailed the FBI s intent to re-open investigations into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton s private email server.
However, now that Comey has testified just last week that there are ongoing investigations into the Trump campaign s possible coordination with the Russian government to fix an election, Comey is out.
The White House released the following statement regarding Comey s firing: Today, President Donald J. Trump informed FBI Director James Comey that he has been terminated and removed from office.
President Trump acted based on the clear recommendations of both Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Here is a shot of the entire letter:Trump himself went on to say in a statement: The FBI is one of our Nation s most cherished and respected institutions and today will mark a new beginning for our crown jewel of law enforcement.
Crown jewel indeed.
It s only a crown jewel in their eyes if they show unwavering loyalty to Trump.Considering that Sessions had to recuse himself from any and all investigations related to Russia and the Trump team, this stinks to high heaven.
In other words, Team Trump is getting rid of anyone and everyone who would be able to blow the whistle on anything resembling collusion.
These people are balls deep in collusion with the Kremlin.This is what a coup looks like, folks.
Sessions, Trump, and all the rest are cleaning house in an effort to get rid of anyone who could tell the truth about what REALLY happened to fix the 2016 election in Donald Trump s and Vladimir Putin s favor.This is a developing story.
Stay tuned to Addicting Info for more information.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images