The presumed nomination of Donald Trump has given a new flavor to the 2016 GOP field.
Or, perhaps I should say that the presumed nomination of Trump has given new courage to people who have spent far too many years (in their opinions) hiding their racist views.Carlos Beruff, who is running for Marco Rubio s Senate seat in Florida, is one of those previously silenced people whose racist views have been liberated by the Trump campaign, and he let his racist flag fly high at a St. Johns County GOP meeting on Thursday.
His favorite nickname for the President?
Animal.
Unfortunately, for seven and a half years this animal we call president, because he s an animal, OK seven and a half years, has surgically and with thought and very smart, intelligent manner, destroyed this country and dismantled the military under not one, not two, but three secretary of defenses, he said.
And they ve all written books about it.
Sooner or later, you re going to find, this was a plan, he wants us to be just another country.
I don t want to be another country.
I want to be the United States of America, the greatest country in the world, he added, garnering a round of applause.Here s the video:Beruff has more than racism in common with Trump.
Like Trump, he s a successful land developer and like Trump, he sees the government as standing in the way of him and more riches.
If he was to be elected, there would be conflicts of interest from every direction:Today he s one of the wealthiest developers in Southwest Florida, building more than 2,500 homes in three different counties.
And as his business grew, so did his political influence fueled by campaign contributions to then Florida Governor Charlie Crist.
Crist appointed him to three civic boards.
The Southwest Florida Water Management district, the State College of Florida, the Manatee-Sarasota Airport Authority.In 2010 Beruff then shifted his allegiance to Governor Rick Scott, who appointed him to his health panel and reappointed him to positions already held.His role as developer has been no less controversial.
For example, Long Bar Pointe, a 500-acre development that environmentalists say could cause irreparable damage to the shoreline.More than 6,500 opponents signed a petition against the Long Bar Pointe development.
Ultimately, the county voted Beruff s proposal down and now Beruff is suing the county government for its actions.Source: My Sun CoastBeruff, though, is even more extreme than Trump.
He wants to ban not just Muslims, but all immigration from the Middle East.
That would even include the Christians who are being persecuted by ISIS.Fortunately for Floridians and the nation, Beruff is unlikely to win.
Right now, he s at one percent.Featured image via Carlos Beruff Facebook page.