Once again, a mouthpiece for Donald Trump gets their ass handed to them for blatantly lying on the air.During her show on Saturday morning, MSNBC host Joy Reid had to frustratingly correct Trump supporter David Malpass for making false claims about Hillary Clinton.It began with Reid talking about the alleged pay-to-play scandal Republicans have been accusing the former Secretary of State of conducting in conjunction with the Clinton Foundation during her years in the post.Reid explained that if Donald Trump gave $100,000 to the Clinton Foundation which then went to fighting AIDS in Africa, which benefits those who get treatment.
Reid pointed out that getting a phone call from Clinton aide Huma Abedin is not proof of pay-to-play.However, Donald Trump giving $25,000 to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi s campaign in exchange for getting the investigation against Trump University dropped in that state is the very definition of pay-to-play.Malpass tried to claim that there were $10 million contributions but when challenged to provide proof of that claim Malpass could not do so.
Reid called out Malpass for lying and went on to explain that the Associated Press found that only 85 of the meetings that Clinton had with people who were donors but not one of those meetings occurred after a donation was made.The AP story was pilloried, Reid said, because they attempted to find pay-to-play and found nothing.
Huma Abedin emailing you back is not getting something, Reid continued.
It s Huma Abedin emailing you back.
Malpass, however, desperately tried to pin something on Hillary Clinton and brought up her emails, which have nothing to do with the topic at hand.
Reid called Malpass out again, but he continued to claim that the emails brought out the information about the Clinton Foundation.
Malpass also claimed that Hillary Clinton has not held any press conferences but Reid corrected him again by pointing out that she held two last week.As Reid repeatedly shamed Malpass for conflating press conferences, emails and foundations, her other guest Kurt Eichenwald broke out in laughter because Malpass was clearly making false claims.By the end of the segment, a frustrated Reid admitted that her head hurts after having to debunk so much bullshit from Trump s minions.Here s the video via YouTube.Trump and his team are desperate to make anything Clinton does into a scandal.
And that s why any claims they make that they are somehow winning this election are complete bullshit.
A winning campaign does not have to stoop to telling outright lies to the media every day.
But that is what Trump is doing because his poll numbers have imploded and his campaign has fallen off a cliff.Republicans have waged countless witch hunts using taxpayer money in an effort to sabotage the woman who stands in their way of absolute power and they have failed miserably because the investigations have always cleared Hillary Clinton of wrongdoing.
Rather than admit that, Trump and his minions would rather repeat lies because it s all they have left.Featured image via screenshot