Since the beginning of Donald Trump s terrible offensive and divisive campaign, Elizabeth Warren has been one of the only politicians with enough balls to stand up to the presumptive Republican nominee and call him out on his bullsh*t. She s proven that Trump basically crumbles whenever a strong woman goes up against him, and her most recent anti-Trump comments show just how capable she is in taking The Donald on.In a commencement address at Bridgewater State University, Warren hilariously mocked Trump once again, clearly following in President Obama s footsteps after he blasted Trump in a recent graduation speech at Rutgers University.
After telling the graduating class to sing like no one is listening and dance like no one is watching, the Massachusetts senator gave them some more applicable advice be ready for anything, because you never know what life has in store for you.
Poking fun at the orange-skinned business mogul, Warren said: Heck, on my day of graduation, I never imagined I would visit foreign countries.
I never imagined I would be a commencement speaker.
I never imagined I would get into a Twitter war with Donald Trump.
But here I am, living the life!
You can watch that hilarious moment in Warren s speech below:The crowd couldn t get enough and gave Warren a deafening applause for her efforts in being one of the few people tough enough to try and bring the disgraced candidate down.
Warren also gave the graduating class some advice about dealing with naysayers who these days, say it in nastier and nastier ways.
Pulling from some amazing pop culture references, Warren said: As one of the great philosophers of our time has said, Haters going to hate, hate, hate hate, hate.
Knowing who you are helps you Shake It Off.
(applause) Okay, I promised I wouldn t sing, and I definitely can t dance like Britney Spears.
It was an amazing speech, and the fact that it came at Trump s expense made it so much better.
After the commencement, Warren continued to insult Trump as she spoke to reporters.
She said: I think that Donald Trump is a truly dangerous man and there is some risk that he could be president of the United States.
I think it s time for all of us to pay careful attention to him and to the issues that he has raised and to start fighting back.
Warren also continued to tease us with the idea of ticketing up with the chosen Democratic nominee.
She wouldn t give a straight answer on whether or not she would run for vice president if offered the job, but said, I have a job I love and I wake up every morning eager to do that.
It s uncertain if Warren will end up on the ticket, but she s definitely proven time and time again that she can handle Trump s nonsense with ease, and that makes her an even greater asset to the Democratic nominee.Featured image is a screenshot