I am not a psychologist.
I don t even play one on TV, but after more than a year of hearing non-stop Donald Trump verbal vomit, it s pretty clear that the man is incapable of not insulting people, even the people this country pretends to revere, like veterans.
On Thursday, Trump, for not the first time, insulted a group of his military veteran supporters by saying that he s just as brave as them because he takes financial risks (he doesn t, but more on that in a bit).He started off right, for literally a fraction of a second:With five days to go until Election Day, we almost had a late-breaking campaign first: Donald Trump being self-deprecating.
Speaking at a rally in North Carolina Thursday night, Trump acknowledged Medal of Honor recipients in attendance.
Oh, they re so much more brave than me.
I wouldn t have done what they did, Trump said.
So far so good.
I m brave in other ways, Trump continued.
I m brave.
Just different brave.
Same same.Source: SlateWatch it here:Okay, Mr. Trump, since you brought up bravery, let s talk about it.
You had five draft deferments, officially making you a draft dodger and if your campaign rhetoric is any indication, you re also a chicken hawk.
Sending other people to die, so you can bravely amass your personal fortune is the opposite of bravery.
It s cowardly and it s worse.As for being financially brave, hardly.
He s brave with OPM, other people s money, which is not bravery at all.It s called OPM.
I do it all the time in business.
It s called other people s money.
There s nothing like doing things with other people s money because it takes the risk you get a good chunk out of it and it takes the risk.Source: BloombergTrump has also filed bankruptcy numerous times, which means he s really irresponsible with other people s money.
Why should we expect him to be any different as Commander-in-Chief.
He will send other people s children to fight wars that could quite easily bankrupt us.
To Trump, that would be just another day.
To the rest of the country, it would be devastating.Despite all of this, despite the fact that Trump has insulted prisoners of war, veterans with PTSD, Gold Star families, and the very sacrifices of veterans, the military still supports him, although, by and large, the people in charge do not.
Perhaps the military should be listening to its generals and admirals instead of a bloated draft dodger.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images