After Friday s right-wing terror attack in Portland, in which two men were stabbed after coming to the aid of a Muslim teen, the nation seemed unsure of how to respond.
One Republican responded, though.
He says it s the GOP that s at risk and his solution is to hire the right-wing extremists as Republicans personal bodyguards.It took Donald Trump three days, but his handlers finally released their official response to the attack, which was far too little too late, but still better than declaring himself the victim:The violent attacks in Portland on Friday are unacceptable.
The victims were standing up to hate and intolerance.
Our prayers are w/ them.
President Trump (@POTUS) May 29, 2017The irony is thick there, since Trump has been the leader of the hate and intolerance movement since at least 2011, when he became the leader of the birther movement, which tried to claim that President Obama was not born in the United States.Still, even after the attack, and after Trump s less than heartfelt response, James Buchal, the chair of the GOP Party for Multnomah County, which is home to Portland, said this to the Guardian: I am sort of evolving to the point where I think that it is appropriate for Republicans to continue to go out there, he said.
And if they need to have a security force protecting them, that s an appropriate thing too.
Asked if this meant Republicans making their own security arrangements rather than relying on city or state police, Buchal said: Yeah.
And there are these people arising, like the Oath Keepers and the Three Percenters.
Asked if he was considering such groups as security providers, Buchal said: Yeah.
We re thinking about that.
Because there are now belligerent, unstable people who are convinced that Republicans are like Nazis.
Both the Oath Keepers and the Three Percenters are on the Southern Poverty Law Center s list of anti-government groups.
In other words, they are terrorists.While it is true that constituents across the country are p*ssed at the fact that Republicans want to take away their healthcare, that hardly constitutes an existential threat, except perhaps to some careers.The fact is, though, that while the Oregon stabber supported Bernie Sanders, he only did so out of sheer hate for Hillary Clinton, and he s also a racist right-wing nut job and perhaps the only thing preventing him from being in one of those militias, was the fact that no one seemed to like him.Still, for some bizarre reason, snowflake Republicans think they are the ones under attack, so naturally, the only way to deal with that is to hire terrorists to protect them.