A Republican United States Senate candidate in Colorado was caught on video appearing to threaten a reporter with bodily harm.
Jon Keyser was confronted by reporter Marshall Zelinger of Denver 7 at a fundraiser and asked questions about suspicious signatures on petitions Keyser had submitted in order to get on the ballot.After initially responding with talking points assuring that he would be on the ballot against Democratic Senator Michael Bennet, Keyser apparently recognized Zelinger for having recently knocked on his door in order to get a comment on the record from the candidate.
That s when he relayed his threat.Keyser told Zelinger, My dog is bigger than you are.
He s huge.
He s a big guy.
Very protective.
Zelinger, obviously surprised by the statement, asked Keyser to clarify.
In response, Keyser pointed out that his dog weighs 165 pounds.Watch the video of the tense and odd exchange here:https://www.facebook.com/MZ7NEWS/videos/1313426775337589/Keyser has been under fire because he initially failed to meet the standards for the 10,500 signatures needed to be listed on the ballot in Colorado 1,500 signatures in each of the state s 7 congressional districts.
A news investigation also found that several of the signatures were apparently forged:Denver7 has talked to several people whose names appeared on petitions for Jon Keyser in the first congressional district who claim their signatures were forged.
Many of those signatures were collected by a woman named Maureen.A sympathetic judge overruled the Secretary of State s ruling keeping Keyser off the ballot, but now a progressive group in the state is petitioning for an investigation.ProgressNow Colorado sent a letter to Mitch Morrissey and Peter Weir, the District Attorneys in Denver and Jefferson County, respectively.
We ask that you pursue a criminal investigation of Jon Keyser and his campaign immediately.
Colorado voters must have full confidence in the integrity of the election process, wrote ProgressNow Colorado Executive Director Alan Franklin.Under a cloud of suspicion like that, it certainly doesn t look good for Keyser to try to intimidate the press.Featured image via screen capture