Meanwhile Trump is about to make history for claiming the most votes ever in the history of the GOP primaries.
What was that the mainstream media keeps saying about Trump not being able to beat Hillary?
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has badly underperformed in 2016 compared with her first run for president in 2008, a new data analysis done exclusively by Breitbart News shows.It s particularly telling that she s gotten fewer votes in 2016 than she did in 2008, especially because of the fact that the 2008 race was a three-way race for some time between Clinton, now President Barack Obama, and ex-Sen. John Edwards.
She was, despite being the frontrunner for some time, the ultimate loser of that race and she got more votes that year in a much more competitive primary that she ended up losing than she has this year against a devout, proud socialist in Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) of Vermont.Clinton is widely expected to be the Democratic nominee in 2016, but her poor performance in the primaries which many believe she should have wrapped up long ago may drag her down heading into the general election, as even many Democratic voters seem to distrust her.
To win in November, Clinton will need a strong showing from the Democrat base.
This data seems to suggest that she has significant problems with her own party s core voters, meaning that if whoever wins the Republican nomination is able to woo these disaffected Democrats into the GOP camp, there could be a blowout in November for the Republican nominee.In 2016, Clinton has received 12,437,734 votes so far.
In the states that have already voted this cycle, when she ran and lost back in 2008, Clinton received 12,727,221 votes.Specifically, the data shows, Clinton has seen a decline of 273,321 votes from 2008 to 2016 among states that have already voted this cycle.
That 2.15 percent decrease nationally is exacerbated in several key states that Clinton would need to win to secure the presidency in a general election, suggesting that she s extraordinarily weak on the electoral college scale nationally and that whoever wins the GOP nomination will likely be able to thump her in the general in November.
Via: Breitbart News