CNN s Allyson Camerota expressed her concern about how the tax breaks for Americans will harm the Democrats chances of winning in the mid-term elections with Michigan s Democrat Congresswoman Debbie Dingell.Camerota appeared somewhat panicked, as she started out her segment whining to Dingell about bonuses and pay raises that Americans will receive as a result of Trump s GOP tax bill: Just, ever since the tax reform was announced, or the tax overhaul, or whatever you want to call it, there have been this whole slew of companies that have come forward and saying, Guess what?
We re going to give out bonuses, now, to our employees.
I mean, I have just a partial list in front of me, and there s nine companies on here from AT&T, to Boeing, to Comcast, Bank of America, Sinclair, Wells Fargo, PNC.
There s all sorts of companies that say they re going to give something to a thousand dollars worth of bonuses to their hundreds of thousands of employees.
Fifth Bank Corp is gonna boost the minimum wage to $15 per hour.
Obviously, they could have done this before the tax overhaul was announced.
They were sitting on profits.
But they didn t, they did it when the tax overhaul was announced.
And I m wondering if you, as a Democrat are you worried about the wind in their sails?
People vote with their pocketbooks.
I don t have to tell you this.
So if you get a thousand dollar bonus, you re voting for Donald Trump again.
Although Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) voted against the tax cut bill, she smartly responded to Camerota s question by saying that she s never going to complain that any working man or woman will get an extra boost in their, uh, income.
Dingell then told Camerota that at some point a lot of people are still going to see a tax increase at some point.
Camerota interrupted her to say, Years from now Years from now!
Well after the mid-terms.
So couldn t this carry Republicans through the mid-terms?
RT @RealSaavedra: CNN "journalist" Allisyn Camerota frets over how many businesses are giving back to their employees as a result of the tax cuts and worries it may help GOP.
#TheFive #Tucker #SpecialReport pic.twitter.com/xUHXHHJ8wk Tosca Austen (@ToscaAusten) December 26, 2017Businesses and major corporations tweeted about bonuses and pay raises they would be giving their employees as a direct result of Trump s GOP tax reform bill that was passed without a single Democrat vote:Here is AT&T s full statement: Boening announced on Twitter that a $300M employee-related and charitable investment as a result of TaxReform legislation to support our heroes, our homes and our future:#Boeing announces $300M employee-related and charitable investment as a result of #TaxReform legislation to support our heroes, our homes and our future.
pic.twitter.com/ZNawbAW7AY The Boeing Company (@Boeing) December 20, 2017