Has anybody ever wondered whether all these acts of war, including the MOAB we just dropped on Afghanistan, are just distractions from the growing Russia scandal?
Considering the fact that he won t say whether he actually authorized the MOAB strike, it s not too far-fetched to wonder if this was to distract us from news that our intelligence community may have concrete information showing his campaign colluded with Russia during the election.But the MOAB we just dropped on Afghanistan may not be all.
Trump is threatening North Korea, too, in a more direct way than saying, See my giant penis bomb?
You shouldn t mess with me.
We already sent a strike force across the Pacific to intimidate Kim Jong Un, who s been shooting missiles into the Sea of Japan lately.
North Korea is now talking about conducting a nuclear test within the next few days, and the Trump administration has threatened to hit them with Tomahawks if they do so.But that s not all there may well be an attempt to get boots on the ground in North Korea as well:The intelligence officials told NBC News that the U.S. has positioned two destroyers capable of shooting Tomahawk cruise missiles in the region, one just 300 miles from the North Korean nuclear test site.American heavy bombers are also positioned in Guam to attack North Korea should it be necessary, and earlier this week, the Pentagon announced that the USS Carl Vinson aircraft carrier strike group was being diverted to the area.The U.S. strike could include missiles and bombs, cyber and special operations on the ground.Because that s totally the way to cow a foreign power.
North Korea has warned that if we launch a pre-emptive strike against them, they could launch a nuke at us.
Hot air?
Maybe.
But it would be better for Trump to take it seriously than strut around with his penis peacock feathers on full display right up until they actually do it.If dropping the biggest non-nuclear bomb in our arsenal isn t enough to scare them, then nothing will be.
If we launch missiles at North Korea in a pre-emptive strike for a nuclear test, we ve committed an act of war, and no matter how we justify it, we ve made ourselves a threat to the entire world by provoking a nuclear power.And North Korea may or may not retaliate directly against us.
While they ve threatened to hit the U.S. first, with a nuke should we strike, they might decide to hit South Korea, or even Japan, in retaliation for such an attack.
In fact, Japan is worried that North Korea could send missiles tipped with sarin gas warheads their way.
Sarin gas is the gas that Assad used on his people last week.In other words, Trump s aggressive actions have consequences he doesn t seem to understand.
He s a macho peacock strutting around trying to convince the world that he s a bad-ass with a giant penis military at his disposal.
Our military is not a toy, and bombs are not a toy, and neither are signals of strength in the situations in which Trump is using them.
He needs to go.
He s the biggest threat to the world we ve seen in decades.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images