Earlier today, Trump appeared to tank the stock of yet another company with a single, ill-considered tweet:The F-35 program and cost is out of control.
Billions of dollars can and will be saved on military (and other) purchases after January 20th.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2016While we can all agree that the man-child known as Donald King Cheeto Trump is absolutely clueless about his responsibilities and clout as president, it seems it might not have been that tweet that actually tanked Lockheed Martin s stock.
What may have happened is considerably worse and considerably more terrifying.
Newsweek s Kurt Eichenwald tweeted the following, which, if true, demonstrates just how dangerous it is that Trump has any access at all to social media:God.
Wall Street guy tells me he & buddies watching TV news 2 see if they can figure out what company might make Trump angry, then short it.
Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) December 12, 2016First Boeing, now Lockheed Martin.
But it s not just that.
Many of the replies are showing that Lockheed s stock actually began to tank a few minutes before Trump let the world know he was pissed at them.
In other words, the possibility exists that Wall Street traders are manipulating the market to their advantage, and basing that manipulation on our ignorant, petty man-child of a president-elect:@kurteichenwald Did they get the word 5 minutes before Trump tweeted about F-35s (Lockheed Martin)?
https://t.co/1LcN2lT8Jo Sean Smith (@protanope) December 12, 2016@kurteichenwald Clearly someone had the head s up on the F-35 program and shorted Lockheed minutes before.
Wonder if S.A.C.
still gets leaks Carolyn Lanzetta (@CarolynLanzetta) December 12, 2016@kurteichenwald @mybookishways kind of like whomever it was who dumped Lockheed shares 5 min before he tweeted?
J.N.
Duncan (@jimnduncan) December 12, 2016How s that swamp-draining going, Trumpkins?
Bet they won t be so thrilled when Wall Street goes after their employers because of him.This is Trump s economy.
One of two things is most likely to happen here: Either Wall Street will get tired of Cheetolini s antics and stop paying attention, or they ll go all out at some point and bankrupt someone.
Regardless, this is something that should never have even gotten started.
Trump is going to ruin us.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images