It s hard to imagine Donald Trump showing anything approaching respect to his kids.
From openly fantasizing about his infant daughter s future breasts, to posing for creepy photos with Ivanka, to pretty much flat-out saying he wants to f*ck Ivanka, it s clear that The Donald probably isn t that great of a father.
Watching him speak at his rallies or on television easily gives one the impression that Trump is a boiling pot of rage ready to spill over on whomever is nearby at the time.
But in an interview on Fox News, Donald Trump Jr. implied that the aforementioned boiling took physical form, and that he was the closest in proximity to his father when it happened at least once.
You told me a story once, you told me on your radio show, your dad you re 7 or 8 years old and he asks you to get him a coke can and you didn t get it?
host Sean Hannity asked.
Trump Jr. explained: He came back from a rather rough day at work and he was like Run to the kitchen and get me a coke.
I said I m not your EXPLETIVE maid, and I ve never seen the man move so fast in my life.
Apparently, Trump Jr. ran from his father, but his mother stopped him at the top of the stairs.
He says his mom, who is the European tough disciplinarian type, handed him to Trump for punishment.
I learned never to do that one again, Trump Jr. said with a grin on his face.
He did not say what form his punishment took, but it certainly was not pretty.
Most parents don t chase their kids around the house over simple backtalk.
Most children are not so terrified of what would happen as a punishment that they flee in terror.Did he beat his son for refusing to grab him a coke?
We ll never know until he clarifies but The Donald is certainly a violent man.
Before he ran for President, ex-wife Ivana Trump said during divorce proceedings that he would rape and humiliate her, once assaulting her after a failed surgery to remove a bald spot.
The Daily Beast gives a rundown of the horrific incident:What followed was a violent assault, according to Lost Tycoon.
Donald held back Ivana s arms and began to pull out fistfuls of hair from her scalp, as if to mirror the pain he felt from his own operation.
He tore off her clothes and unzipped his pants.
Then he jams his penis inside her for the first time in more than sixteen months.
Ivana is terrified It is a violent assault, Hurt writes.
According to versions she repeats to some of her closest confidantes, he raped me.
Then he jams his penis inside her for the first time in more than sixteen months.
Ivana is terrified It is a violent assault, Hurt writes.
According to versions she repeats to some of her closest confidantes, he raped me.
Obviously, if he would do this to his wife, he would not hesitate to be violent with his children.Did Donald Trump Jr. just reveal another horrific fact about his family?
Watch the video below and decide for yourself: Featured Image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images