Acting Attorney General Sally Yates refused to back Donald Trump and his bigoted Muslim Ban.
In a move that will surprise no one ever, Trump flew into a rage and fired her.
Now, the internet is ripping him apart.In a brave act of defiance, Yates announced on Monday that The Department of Justice would not enforce his executive order as long as she was attorney general.Read the message Sally Yates left for Justice Department lawyers before she was fired: https://t.co/c8IE9NfUQX pic.twitter.com/NhECBjKJkp Los Angeles Times (@latimes) January 31, 2017Trump went full on fascist and fired Yates for her insubordination, sending a clear message to all federal employees: obey me, or else.
In a scathing statement issued by White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, Yates was basically branded a traitor.
The statement accused her of having betrayed the DOJ and described her as an Obama Administration appointee who is weak on borders and very weak on immigration.
Tonight, the statement read, President Trump has relieved Ms. Yates of her duties.
Instantly, people began referring to Yates firing as the Monday Night Massacre.
This is a reference to when Richard Nixon ordered a special prosecutor be fired for refusing to stop looking into the Watergate scandal.
As a result, two of the DOJ s top leaders resigned rather obey the shameful order.
That night in 1973 became known as the Saturday Night Massacre.
#MondayNIghtMassacre #TrumpFiresYates #FiredForSupportingTheConstitution Thank you @SallyQYates for your bravery.
pic.twitter.com/wmFiEDFOE4 Warren Leight (@warrenleightTV) January 31, 2017#mondaynightmassacre: took Nixon 5 years, Trump- 8 days Janet Reitman (@janetreitman) January 31, 2017Trump now finds himself being absolutely shredded in the court of public opinion yet again while Yates is being hailed a hero for standing strong against his bully tactics.Someone updated Sally Yates Wikipedia page pic.twitter.com/BkPynP3h3w Tim Perone (@timperone) January 31, 2017Sally Yates lived her oath like MLK.
Trump treats his oath as multiple choice.
pic.twitter.com/vWT8MH85JT D Wasserman Schultz (@DWStweets) January 31, 2017Sally Yates pic.twitter.com/mVKVAEh2H6 Akilah Hughes (@AkilahObviously) January 31, 2017Footage of Sally Yates leaving her office.
#ThankYouSally pic.twitter.com/oZL57jeD1j Amarnath Amarasingam (@AmarAmarasingam) January 31, 2017Featured image via Pete Marovich/Getty Images