Democrats have the perfect weapon to take down Donald Trump in 2020, according to a conservative columnist: Oprah.
The famed black media proprietor and TV host was thrown into the political mix on Thursday when an op-ed in the New York Post suggested she is uniquely positioned, should she wish to commit herself, to seek the Democratic nomination for president and challenge Trump in 2020.
John Podhoretz, a never-Trump advocate and former speechwriter for Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W.
Bush, shared his essay on Twitter and Oprah answered.
Thanks for your VOTE of confidence!
she wrote back in a tweet.
@jpodhoretz Thanks for your VOTE of confidence!Democrats best hope for 2020: Oprah | New York Post https://t.co/tvt82v8cMH Oprah Winfrey (@Oprah) September 28, 2017Podhoretz replied: Give it a shot, what, would it kill you?
Some of the replies to Oprah s response were less than positive:Oh hell no!
I am a liberal Democrat.
The last thing we need in the White House is another narcissist.
Steve Tharp (@stharpus) September 29, 2017NO NO NO pic.twitter.com/sGRNm47oMw big water (@hannahtraining) September 29, 2017Winfrey starred Sunday in a 60 Minutes segment that had her conducting a focus group of Michigan voters, assessing the range of their political opinions.Asked about impressions of Trump, their answers ranged from every day I love him more and more to he s a horrible president.
Oprah listened, reflected their answers, and tried not to judge.Podhoretz wrote that she is the Trump s mirror image.
Daily MailWe re pretty sure that Trump and Oprah are not mirror images .
For one, Trump is not a race-obsessed and gender obsessed Democrat.
Watch:Who can forget the interview Oprah did with Donald Trump on her show when she asked him if he d ever considering running for President.
At the time of the interview, Donald J. Trump knew more about the real world and how it works, than Oprah, whose knowledge about how things work in the world ended with her Chicago set, and her on-stage couch where she practiced amateur psychology for decades in front of adoring fans.