Megyn Kelly became the only Fox News host to take Donald Trump s endorsement by the KKK seriously when she cornered Mike Huckabee on Monday night.After Mitt Romney told Kelly during an earlier interview that Trump is coddling the KKK and their former leader David Duke, Mike Huckabee feigned surprise that the former Republican presidential nominee would say such a thing.
Trump has repeatedly disavowed David Duke, disavowed the Klan, Huckabee claimed.Almost immediately, Kelly put pressure on Huckabee.
When did he repeatedly disavow the Klan, she demanded to know.Huckabee insisted that Trump disavowed Duke and the KKK on Twitter, and further insisted that nobody he knows has ever called Trump a racist.But Huckabee should probably read Trump s Twitter feed again because the Republican front-runner only weakly disavowed Duke and said nothing about disavowing the endorsement of the KKK.As I stated at the press conference on Friday regarding David Duke- I disavow.
pic.twitter.com/OIXFKPUlz2 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 28, 2016Kelly mentioned that it was weird how Trump disavowed Duke on Friday but acted like he had never heard of him during the interview with Jake Tapper on CNN on Sunday, and Huckabee could only admit that he couldn t explain it.Huckabee then tried to excuse Trump s terrible interview by claiming that his earpiece wasn t working, something Kelly called him out on swiftly.
But Trump heard David Duke in that ear piece, you know that, because he repeated back, David Duke, to Jake Tapper, she brutally reminded the former Arkansas Governor.Huckabee responded by repeating his assertion that he doesn t believe Trump is a racist and went on to trash the KKK as an abominable organization that he can t believe still exists.Kelly said that it s hard to believe that Trump could fumble on something that is such a no-brainer.
Political candidates just do not accept endorsements from hate groups like the KKK.
Such an endorsement is damaging and is usually quickly denounced to protect the image and reputation of the person running for public office.But Trump took a long time to finally disavow Duke, and it appears he only did so reluctantly.Kelly even reminded Huckabee of other racist incidents involving Trump, the most recent of which occurred when he decrided a judge for being Hispanic as the reason why a court ruled against him in a fraud case against Trump University.
Huckabee responded by calling this election silly.
Here s the video via YouTube.Kudos to Megyn Kelly for not joining her Fox colleagues in defense of a racist.
Featured image via video screenshot