During a segment of HBO s Real Time with Bill Maher, Prophets of Rage guitarist Tom Morello sat down with the show s host Bill Maher where they discussed the legacy of Muhammed Ali.Maher described the influence that the late boxing champion had on himself and the world, saying: He invented hip-hop.
It was completely revolutionary.
For everyone who is younger, who grew up in a world of hip-hop, where braggadocio is a big part of life.
You know I used to say, rap is affirmative action for the ego.
Morello agreed with Maher, saying that Ali had influenced himself, saying that he was particularly attracted to Ali because of how unapologetic his attitude was.
Morello also went on to comment on how Ali s legacy is now being whitewashed.
I was attracted to Muhammad Ali by how he used his vocation to inflict his worldview on the public, and it was unapologetic.
In the same way with Nelson Mandela, there s been a sort of a whitewash of who Muhammad Ali was.
He was a person who said, You might not like my religion, but it s my religion.
You might not like the color of my skin, or my opinions, but I am just as American as you are.
And the powers that be can shove it, because I m the champion of the world and I m the peoples champion.
And that s thing, as a kid, that made me think, in my vocation, I can express my opinion in a way that is unapologetic as well.
Morello was spot on with his statement that Ali s legacy is being whitewashed.
That s why a hate-mongerer like Donald Trump feels comfortable tweeted out platitudes to The Greatest despite the fact that Trump s presidential campaign flies in the face of everything that Ali stood for.
Ali was so much against Trump s stance on banning Muslim s from entering the United States, that he wrote a public letter lambasting the idea.You can watch the segment below:"Muhammad Ali invented hip-hop."
@BillMaher and @TMorello reflect on Ali's revolutionary and unapologetic persona:https://t.co/qj1YJc1D71 Real Time (@RealTimers) June 11, 2016Featured image from video screenshot