Amateur president Donald Trump s first thirty days in office have been chaotic, ill-prepared and downright embarrassing.
A list of polls released this past week shows a mostly negative view of Trump s behavior as an alleged president so far, and given his actions, it s only going to get worse.
One poll shows that a majority of Americans are embarrassed by Trump s behavior.
Another poll by Quinnipiac University found a majority of voters say that he does not act level-headed.
Still, Trump thinks he s doing a fantastic job.When he was asked how he would grade his administration through its first four-plus weeks, Trump suggested that he has been a high achiever.
The former reality show star-turned-alleged president said he would give himself an A for effort and achievement, but just a C or a C+ on his ability to communicate his successes to the American people, according to Politico.
In terms of achievement, I think I d give myself an A.
Because I think I ve done great things I and my people, but I don t think we ve explained it well enough to the American public, Trump said in an interview on Fox and Friends Tuesday.
I think I give myself an A in terms of what I ve actually done, Trump added.But Trump seemed to think he s just been an average messenger.
In terms of messaging, I would give myself a C or a C+, he said.Trump also gave himself an A+ for effort.
But results are more important (than effort), he added.As for the protests that have erupted nationwide, Trump blamed hurt feelings from the results of the 2016 presidential election.
Trump added that he intends to bring the country together.
The way you do that is through success, he said, vowing to boost jobs and replace the Affordable Care Act.About Obamacare: Angry constituents have shown up at town hall meetings across the country.
When you take someone s healthcare away, they re not happy and it s not a unifying moment.
The GOP replacement is so bad that even the number three Republican in the House vowed not to sign off on it.
Trump may indeed be bringing the country together against him.
And for the fake president who vowed to work hard and never vacation as president, he has taken weekends off and repeatedly gone golfing.
On weekends, he hangs out at his Mar-a-Lago resort surrounded by his rich guests.According to the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch, former President Barack Obama s travel costs during his eight years in office totaled about $97 million.
If Trump maintains his current pace, he ll outspend Obama in less than one year.
After winning the election, Trump went on a thank you tour, then held a rally in Florida.We ll leave you with this 2011 tweet of Trump s criticizing President Obama.Why is @BarackObama always campaigning or on vacation?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 17, 2011Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images.