The victim of the angry Bernie Sanders supporter has an amazing attitude.
It s the civility many of us have come to expect from Trump supporters who ve been unjustly attacked by uncivil and in many cases, unlawful Bernie Sanders supporters.
A politically-motivated vandal in Washington State admittedly vandalized a Trump supporter s car, slashing its tires and dumping rotten yogurt through its sun roof, according to a police report filed last Monday.The suspect, named in the report as one Riley M. Silva of Gig Harbour, Washington, confessed his crime to the police.
Showing no sign of remorse, he claimed his victim was an ignorant bigot and that he improved the community by vandalizing the car.
According to the report, the culprit became angry after noticing that the car sported a Donald Trump sticker.His full confession to the police, which was originally posted on the blog of lawyer and author Mike Cernovich, reads as follows:I on the 11th day of the 4th month of 2016 did maliciously attack a hate symbol protected by the first amendment.
After disabling the vehicle and dumping rotten food into the interior I feel I have improved the community and supported our nation s values by stopping a promoter of hate speech.
I do not wish to have ignorant bigots in my town and in a just world the person deserved what was received and the situation is made whole.As America is far from just, I expect the bigot will want to be made whole.
With this I declare he is owed nothng.
But as the situation is what it is, I intend to make the individual whole provided he cease to promote ignorance and hate.
I do not expect the law to recognize damage to tools of hate or fascism.
Such things need to be destroyed so good people may remain and become free.The victim, Nathan Elliot, later posted pictures of the damage to his vehicle.
In his statement to the police, he said that the damage to the tire alone would cost $500 to repair.Bernie Sanders supporter didn't like my Trump bumper sticker, so he vandalized my personal property.
Cool.
pic.twitter.com/QghClfl2ak Nate (@pulsarVision) April 10, 2016The police report describes Riley Silva as a skinny white male in his 20s, with long blond hair.
The victim saw him while he was in the process of vandalizing his car, at which point he yelled at and ran towards the culprit, who fled in his own vehicle.
In the report, Elliot claims that the culprit almost hit two other cars as he drove away from the scene.
In addition to vandalizing the victim s car, Silva has been charged with reckless driving.
-Breitbart NewsEven though I have amazing @USAA insurance, all costs will come out of my own pocket.
That's a $400 tire by the way.
Nate (@pulsarVision) April 12, 2016USAA Insurance tweeted an awesome reply to Nathan:@pulsarVision We are here to help.
Is this a claim related need ?
Please DM us your full name, claim# if applicable and you phone# .
Thank u USAA (@USAA_help) April 12, 2016UPDATE on Nathan s new tire:@BreitbartNews @Cernovich @DanScavino @realDonaldTrump @Nero Update: new tire came in today can't tread on me!!!
pic.twitter.com/AlVPDLym85 Nate (@pulsarVision) April 16, 2016Nathan has the perfect response to the violent Bernie Sanders supporters:It was only through learning how much others don t like the truth exposed, that I learned for myself how much I crave its very existence.
Nate (@pulsarVision) February 14, 2016