The Donald Trump Administration has to be the whiniest in history.
Of course, they are all a bunch of spoiled, moneyed, grown up brats, so this is no surprise.
Once a trust fund baby who appreciates nothing and was born with a silver spoon in your mouth, and there s no turning back.
You either become a decent person because you had decent parents and morals and values plus a basic sense of awareness and decency yourself, or you become a rich asshole.
Trump being Trump, of course, picked other rich assholes like himself.
Case in point United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley.Now, I know that Haley is awful.
I live in South Carolina and lived under the tyranny of her governorship until Trump scooped her up to work in his administration.
Therefore, her 4th of July tweet came as no surprise to me.
Since the nutjob who runs North Korea is an ever-increasing nuclear threat, all relevant hands had to be on deck on Independence Day, since there had been yet another North Korean ballistic missile test less than 24 hours before.
This one is especially grave, since there is every possibility that it could strike our nation.
However, what is Nikki Haley worried about?
Certainly not Kim Jung-un.
No.
She is worried about having to work on the holiday.
Ambassador Haley tweeted:Spending my 4th in meetings all day.
#ThanksNorthKorea Nikki Haley (@nikkihaley) July 4, 2017Luckily, the good people of Twitter were on the job for this one, as per usual.
They instantly railed Haley, and made her remember just what Independence Day and patriotism are all about:What job did you think you were signing up for, exactly?
Clara Jeffery (@ClaraJeffery) July 4, 2017This is your job 24/7 until you're out.
You want a vacation?
Quit.
We need public servants.
Serve or leave.
Pete Forester ??
(@pete_forester) July 4, 2017Kim Jong-un rubs his hands together and says, "Excellent.
Inconveniencing Nikki Haley was the entire purpose of the missile launch."
https://t.co/ENYRiWXod5 The Rude Pundit (@rudepundit) July 4, 2017Full day working with adults with disabilities @nikkihaley, for a whole lot less than you make.
Your whining is pitiful.
molly lamountain (@canineasylum) July 4, 2017.
Kudos.
Spending a holiday working for American security is unprecedented.
pic.twitter.com/QpqERnnd0i Jake Query (@jakequery) July 4, 2017And that s just for starters.
This woman is just like the rest of the Trump Administration self -absorbed, completely unqualified for the job she holds, and uninterested in performing it for any reason other than advancing a political profile.Happy Independence Day, indeed, America.
Hope you enjoyed it.
With these fools in charge, it very well may be our last.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images