Hurricane Matthew is helping Republicans suppress voters who could help Democrats win Florida in November and Fox News is gleeful about it.During a broadcast on Fox Business, host Stuart Varney and guest Tucker Carlson bragged about how Florida Governor Rick Scott refuses to extend the voter registration deadline past October 11th even though a massive hurricane is forcing mass evacuations from the coastal areas.
I expect President Obama to go down there, probably Hillary Clinton will go down, and probably Donald Trump, Varney began.
So there s going to be the aftermath politics.
Who s going to win this one?
Carlson responded by basically calling Democratic voters lazy and seemed to relish the idea that weather hurts Democratic voters.
The conventional view, and I think it s right, is that anything that makes voting more difficult hurts the Democrats because their voters tend to be less committed and there may be other factors there too.
But that is definitely what political consultants believe.
If it rains, there s bad weather, if anything gets in the way of easy voting, Democrats suffer.
Varney mentioned that Governor Scott, a Trump supporter, has refused Clinton s request to extend the deadline.
I guess that would tend to favor the Republican Party in November, he quipped.
It favors people who are organized, who know what they re voting for, who have their lives together, Carlson responded.
I mean, I guess you could say that favors the Republicans.
Varney himself admitted that gloating about the good fortune of Republicans when a hurricane is pounding the state and causing a lot of damage to people s homes is almost crass, but that didn t deter either host one bit.
What I m getting at here is you ve got this massive storm, it s arrived, it has hit Florida, Florida is a key state The politicians are going to be all over it.
My initial reaction is to say that it favors the Republicans.
I hate to be I think that sounds almost crass to be making political judgments when the storm is still hitting But nonetheless, I think that s where its going.
Here s the video via Media Matters.Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are locked in a battle for the presidency and Florida is a state that has had historical importance on Election Day, especially when the election is close.And since Democrats lead the GOP in registered voters and have added tens of thousands of new voters to the rolls, especially Hispanics, it s clear that Republicans are using Hurricane Matthew as an excuse to stifle Democratic gains.Florida Governor Rick Scott should extend the deadline but he is only interested in doing things that helps Republicans, even if that means screwing over thousands of Florida residents.Featured Image: Screenshot