Newt Gingrich, who s totally, utterly and completely up Trump s ass except for when he s not, claims to know who will be in the general election four years from now.
Gingrich seriously thinks that there could be a Trump/Clinton rematch in 2020.
No, seriously, that s what he thinks.
The rationale he gave to Politico for that prediction is well beyond ridiculous: The challenge for everybody s going to be, What if he gets 48 or 49 percent?
Gingrich said in a video interview for POLITICO s Open Mike series.
And what if he says: You know, I like this campaign and stuff.
I ain t leaving ?
There will then be a Trump Party.'
Har de har har, don t make us laugh too hard.
It hurts.Trump might like the campaign stuff because it helps him promote his businesses, but whether the GOP even allows him to get very far in the process remains to be seen.
That s especially true since oh, wait we haven t even had this election yet!Gingrich still thinks that the odds are better than even that Trump will win this election.
Politico says that Gingrich was on Open Mike a few hours before FBI director James Comey released his vaguer-than-vague letter about new emails tied to Hillary, so that revelation must have made ol Newt cream his shorts.Alas, though, the latest so-called scandal turned out to be nothing, much to the disappointment of all the Hillary-haters out there.Gingrich isn t exactly the best prognosticator the GOP has.
He s spent a lot of time predicting that Hillary s numbers will fall, while Trump s will soar.
Before anyone takes that seriously, remember that he also predicted that Mitt Romney would win in a landslide in 2012.
Not exactly groundbreaking, breathtaking, accurate stuff here.Trump s numbers soaring, while Hillary s crash, hasn t happened.
At this point, doesn t look like it s going to happen.
10 days out from an election means most voters even many of the undecided have figured out who they d rather see in the White House.Newt Gingrich is a fucking tool.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images