This is about to get interesting.
The Hollywood elite that has been imposing their liberal moral code on the rest of America for decades (without having to exhibit a shred of moral decency), is just about to be put to the test Charlotte Rampling has accused those complaining about a shortage of black nominees at this year s Oscars of anti- white racism .The 69-year-old, who is up for the Best Actress award, said that people should not be classified adding that nominations should be based on the performance.Responding to stars who have threatened to boycott the ceremony next month, she told a radio station yesterday: One can never really know but perhaps the black actors did not deserve to make the final list.
Miss Rampling s remarks follow a week of debate about nominations for the Academy Awards, after it was revealed that no black actors were shortlisted for the second year running.
There have been calls for a boycott, with Jada Pinkett Smith wife of Hollywood actor Will Smith writing on Facebook that: We must stand in our power.
Begging for acknowledgement or even asking [to be nominated] diminishes dignity.
It diminishes power and we are a dignified people.
Others have demanded that the Academy bring in quotas however this was met with criticism from Miss Rampling.Speaking to French radio station Europe 1 yesterday, the British star said: Why classify people?
We live in countries where everyone is more or less accepted.
There are always issues like he is less good looking or he is too black .
There is always someone who says you are too .
So are we going to say that we will categorise all that to make lots of minorities everywhere?
She said that she did not think racism played into the nomination process and that the lack of black stars up for awards could be because they have not earned them.She added: [The complaints are] anti-white racism.
Maybe the black actors don t deserve to be on the final stretch?
Fellow acting veteran Sir Michael Caine also weighed into the debate yesterday.
He told the Today programme: You can t vote for an actor because he s black and you can t just say I m going to vote for him, he s not very good, but he s black, I ll vote for him .
You have to give a good performance and I m sure people have.
I saw Idris Elba (in Beasts Of No Nation) I thought he was wonderful.
Via: UK Daily Mail