The right-wing pastor who posted a cartoon of Hillary Clinton in black-face just got his a** handed to him by CNN.Pastor Mark Burns has been one of Donald Trump s biggest cheerleaders.
On his church website, he bragged about his military experience in the Army and claimed that he graduated from North Greenville University with a Bachelor of Science.The only problem is that neither of those claims are even remotely true, which means Burns has been lying to his congregation and the American people.During an interview with CNN host Victor Blackwell, Burns was taken by surprise when called out for posting false information about himself.When asked if he attended the university, Burns said that he had, but then Blackwell confronted Burns about the claim on his website that he actually graduated.
As it turns out, Burns only attended for one semester.Burns whined and claimed that the interview was supposed to be off the record, but Blackwell made it clear that he didn t agree to that.
Burns continuing complaining and accused Blackwell of character assassination.
This is not fair at all, Burns whined.
I thought we were doing a profile and all of a sudden you re here to try to destroy my character.
I m not here to destroy your character, Blackwell said before getting back to the results of CNN s investigation.Blackwell proceeded to grill Burns and revealed that not only did Burns not graduate from North Greenville University, he didn t serve six years in the Army either.
He only briefly served in the National Guard.Here s the video via YouTube.Burns later released a statement claiming that he only lied in his biography because he wanted to be taken seriously as a pastor.
As a young man starting my church in Greenville, South Carolina, I overstated several details of my biography because I was worried I wouldn t be taken seriously as a new pastor.
This was wrong.
I wasn t truthful then and I have to take full responsibility for my actions.
Burns, who has raked in the money as a televangelist, has built his empire on a foundation of lies that automatically disqualifies him from serving as a so-called man of God.
This man lied to become a pastor and he has been lying to his congregation ever since.But Burns could not even take full responsibility for his sins as he blamed the media and claimed that he is only being outed because he is a black man who supports Donald Trump.
I do also want to set the record straight about why this attack is happening because I am a black man supporting Donald Trump for president.
For too long, African-American votes have been taken for granted by Democratic politicians, and enough is enough.
So Burns literally played the race card, which something conservatives hypocritically often claim that liberals do.So not only is Burns a liar, he s a hypocrite and one has to wonder what else he is hiding.Featured Image: Stephen Maturen/Getty Images