Recently Tomi Lahren a woman who literally built a career on hate at Glenn Beck s TheBlaze tried to make herself seem less horrible than she actually is during an appearance on The View and said that her limited government stance included being pro-choice.
Unfortunately for Lahren, while she could get away with making racist comment after racist comment, the one thing conservatives will not tolerate is a woman speaking out about having rights to anything especially her body.Some are rushing to Lahren s defense after Glenn Beck fired her for expressing the one viewpoint she has (assuming it s legitimate) that isn t completely horrifying, and she is taking that encouragement and running with it.
Recently, Lahren filed a lawsuit against Beck alleging wrongful termination and she stopped by ABC News to whine about how unfair it is that she got fired from her position as an extreme-right propagandist because she said something that was contrary to conservatives core values (that word is used as loosely as possible).
My job is my life.
This is my life.
Without that, I feel lost, Lahren told ABC News Nightline on Friday.
When your outlet is taken away from you and you don t understand why and you re so disappointed and you re so blindsided, it hurts.
I was getting ready to go in and do my show and I got a phone call saying that show was not on, have been suspended for a week, perhaps longer , Lahren whined.
I was flabbergasted.
Lahren s lawsuit, like her persona, is as fake as any randomly-selected promise from the mouth of Donald Trump.
She has not been fired and instead remains under contract.
Most importantly, she is still getting paid.
It is puzzling that an employee who remains under contract (and is still being paid) has sued us for being fired, especially when we continue to comply fully with the terms of our agreement with her, TheBlaze told ABC in a statement.
She will continue to be paid until her contract expires in September but feels that her First Amendment rights (the First Amendment only applies to government interference) were violated when Beck decided that he didn t want someone walking around talking like women are people.Nevertheless, Lahren complains that she had been silenced and sidelined just like all those minorities she hates.
I don t sit down in my chair and deliver my Final Thoughts, I don t have a dressing room, so I m terminated, I m fired the way I look at things, I m not doing what I was contracted to do, which was produce a television show, a political talk show, Lahren sobbed.
This is not about politics, she says.
This is about someone who had an opposing viewpoint that has been silenced and sidelined and thrown away.
But, of course, that s what you do with garbage you throw it away (and, according to the lawsuit, stretch yellow CAUTION tape across the door of its dressing room).
I m someone with a thick skin and I can stand up to about anybody, the thin-skinned bully said.
But when somebody does that that s really hard for me to take in Loyalty is everything to me, and you can disagree with me, but to go out and try to humiliate me?
Very, very disappointed.
I m a human being at the end of the day and something has been stripped from me and that s my ability to work, that s my ability to have a voice, Lahren told ABC without providing any of the much-needed evidence that she is, in reality, human.
That s been taken from me wrongfully.
So I m upset by it, and I m hurt by it and I feel betrayed by it.
Interestingly, her pro-choice comments don t exactly mix well with her numerous aspersions cast at women who correctly believe they have a right to make decisions regarding their own bodies.
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Tomi On AbortionIt's over, folks.
The 2017 Flip-Flop of the Year has to go to Tomi Lahren.
(by Matt Binder)Posted by CAFE on Saturday, 25 March 2017Watch the interview below:Featured image via screengrab