Why is explaining our Constitution to liberals is like explaining algebra to a two year old?
Shouldn t government officials who are being paid by We The Taxpayer have a basic understanding of how our Constitution and the basic rights it affords US citizens?The Left, from the White House on down, has scrambled to make the horrific Islamic terrorist attack on the LBGT community in Orlando, which left 49 innocents dead and injured 53 others, all about gun control and those evil Christians.Honing in on their indictment of the gun, the Left has exploited the tragedy in effort to pass anti-American gun legislation, much like Senator Dianne Feinstein s proposed (and failed) measure to ban those who have been named on the terror watchlist within the last five years from their Second Amendment right to purchase a firearm.No due process necessary; and not to mention, the terror watchlist is a train-wreck: naming journalists, politicians, cub scouts and right wing extremists to their list of suspects.
In light of this push, South Carolina representative Trey Gowdy re-upped his complete domination of the issue to his Facebook page.
Can you name another constitutional right that is chilled until we find out it is chilled, and then we have to petition the government to get it back?
Is there another constitutional right we treat the same way for American citizens as we do the second amendment?
wrote Gowdy, captioning the video.WATCH video Gowdy posted on his Facebook page here: What process is currently afforded an American citizen before they go on that list?
asked Gowdy.After being told that there isn t one, but, rather, only a process to petition to get off the list after finding out that one has been put on it, Gowdy pushed back.
Hard.
I m actually talking about due process, which is a phrase we find in the Constitution.
he quipped, that you cannot deprive people of certain things without due process.
He continued hammering the liberal: Can you name another constitutional right that is chilled until we find out it is chilled, and then we have to petition the government to get it back?
he asked.
Is that true with the First Amendment?
Without a coherent rejoinder to him, Gowdy persisted: If we re fine with doing it with the Second Amendment, how about the First?
How about we not let them set up a website or a Goggle account?
How about we not let them join a church until they can petition the government to get off the list.
How about not getting a lawyer?
How about the Sixth Amendment?
How about you can t get a lawyer until you petition the government to get off the list?
Or my favorite: How about the Eighth Amendment?
We are going to subject you to cruel and unusual punishment until you petition the government to get off the list?
Is there another constitutional right that we treat the same way, for American citizens, that we do for the Second Amendment?
he asked.
Via: Daily WireTrey Gowdy asks another brilliant question every one of our gun-grabbing legislators should have to answer: