Ibtihaj Muhammad is on the Olympic fencing team for the United States.
She s also a Muslim and before even competing, has one Olympic record she is the first American to compete while wearing a hijab.Muhammad is also an advocate for acceptance of Muslims in America, so of course, she s no fan of Donald Trump, who wants to ban all Muslims from the United States.
There s just one (okay, several) problem.
Muhammad is native to her New Jersey home.
She has no other country to go back to.
Naturally, in a CNN interview, she had some harsh words for the Republican nominee: I think his words are very dangerous, Muhammad, who is competing in team sabre competition Monday morning, told CNN last week.
When these types of comments are made, no one thinks about how they really affect people.
I m African-American.
I don t have another home to go to.
My family was born here.
I was born here.
I ve grown up in Jersey.
All my family s from Jersey.
It s like, well, where do we go?
Source: Washington PostHer goal is more than about seeing that Trump is never elected, though.
She wants to change the public s view of Muslims: I m hopeful that, in my efforts to represent our country well as an athlete that they change the rhetoric around how people think and perceive the Muslim community, she told CNN.Here s the video:Not surprisingly, she has long been a critic of Trump, beginning with this tweet last December:Friends don t let friends like Trump Ibtihaj Muhammad (@IbtihajMuhammad) December 11, 2015In another interview, Muhammad was asked about Trump by a New Jersey.com reporter.
Her sarcastic answer was, who?
She did say this, though: That s the gift and the curse of social media: You hear from young women all the time, but you also hear from the haters, Muhammad said.
But I want people to know that as hard as they ve been on me, they don t even come close to what we saw in the shooting in North Carolina or the rhetoric around the Khan family at the (Democratic National Convention).
It s ridiculous.
We, as a country, have to change, and I feel like this is a moment.
Unfortunately for Muhammad, after winning her first round, the eighth-ranked fencer lost to her ninth-ranked opponent from France.Featured image via Dylan Buell at Getty Images