This report is so outrageous that we could hardly believe it was true.
Sadly, this is a true story.
The idea that our troops would be told to wear an insignia that is pleasing to Islam is beyond the pale.Erdogan wants only the insignias that are pleasing to Islam to be placed on the right arm of all fighters.
He has even dictated that American special forces are to wear on their arms Islamic symbols that resemble the mark of the beast we ve been speaking about for decades.Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said that he wants them to wear (get this) the mark of Islam from ISIS or Al-Nusra or Boko Haram: We advise them (US troops) to wear badges of Daesh (ISIS) or (Al-Qaeda affiliate) Al-Nusra when they go to other parts of Syria and badges of Boko Haram when they go to Africa, Cavusoglu said with angry sarcasm as reported by Al-Arabiya with AFP and the Associated Press.
What we are reporting here is confirmed.Erdogan of Turkey was upset that U.S. troops wore the YPG emblem and he got his way.
In compliance, U.S. military commanders have ordered special operations troops in Syria to replace uniform patches which they were disguised with bearing the insignia of a controversial Kurdish rebel group known as the YPG.It is amazing that the U.S. quickly complied to Turkey s demands.
Wearing those YPG patches was unauthorized, and it was inappropriate and corrective action has been taken, Army Col. Steve Warren, a Baghdad-based spokesman, told reporters Friday.
And we have communicated as much to our military partners and our military allies in the region.
So which of these emblems will the Americans wear?
We shall see.
But last year American soldiers fighting against ISIS in Syria and Iraq were actually already wearing the emblem of the Muslim infamous two crossed swords (see below) as USA Today reported.
So this Muslim two-crossed sword might be what they will put on their right arm in Syria.
Via: Shoebat Unit insignia is important because it fosters esprit de corps, said Army Col. Steve Warren, the spokesman for Operation Inherent Resolve.
The CJTF-OIR headquarters is made up of men and women from all services, many nations and many different units in the Army.
This insignia will be worn by all of the Army members of the CJTF and may be authorized for wear by other services and nations according to their regulations.