Donald Trump is more than likely leaning toward picking retired Lt. General Michael Flynn as his vice-presidential running mate after this.During an interview on The Week with guest host Martha Raddatz, Flynn referred to undocumented immigrants as illegals.
Flynn is currently on Trump s shortlist of possible running mates so he made sure to match the Republican nominee s anti-immigration rhetoric.Raddatz asked Flynn if all undocumented immigrants should be rounded up and deported.
Flynn not only replied by using what many consider to be a racial slur, by using it he suggested that Trump would round them all up and send them back across the border as he builds his massive and expensive wall along the U.S.-Mexican border.
Let s talk about immigration, Raddatz began.
Let me ask you immigration: should all undocumented immigrants be deported?
So undocumented or illegal?
Flynn asked in some attempt for clarification.
Undocumented, illegal Raddatz replied.Then Flynn proceeded to lecture Raddatz.
Are they here illegally?
I mean, if they re here illegally, then it s illegal.
I mean, again, back to my very first point, the rule of law in this country is probably the single biggest strategic advantage that we have, above and beyond all other countries in the world.
And we cannot allow the rule of law to break down.
Here s the video via YouTube.
The anti-immigrant remarks begin at the 5:18 mark:While the act of crossing the border without permission is illegal, the people doing it are not.
Actions are illegal, not people.
But because they are inherently racist, conservatives prefer using this term to describe Hispanic people whom they do not want in America.That s why the correct term to use is undocumented.
Elsewhere in the interview, Flynn also accused Hillary Clinton of blaming all white people for the killing of innocent black people by police officersLt.
General Michael Flynn served his country honorably during his many years of service, some of which were under President Obama, who appointed him as Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency in 2012.He is also a registered Democrat, although he claims that today s Democratic Party isn t the same one he grew up with, which is weird considering Democrats are fighting for social justice, women s rights, and civil rights just as they have been doing since Flynn was a child in the 1960s, so it s a little bit of a head-scratcher as to why he would want to ruin his reputation by agreeing to be vetted as a potential running mate for a racist bigoted Republican candidate like Donald Trump.Featured Image: Screenshot