NBC was called out by conservative news outlets, like Breitbart for refusing to disclose Matt Lauer s ties to the Clinton Foundation prior to his 30 minutes during NBC s Commander-in-Chief forum where he basically ignored every Hillary scandal during his interview with her.
The longtime Today Show co-host had ties to the Clinton Foundation.
Lauer was once listed as a notable member of The Clinton Global Initiative, the fundraising conduit of the scandal-ridden Clinton Foundation.Today, another close friend of the Clinton s saw his career as the highest paid morning host come to an abrupt end over sexual misconduct and assault allegations, as NBC announced that Matt Lauer had been fired from the Today Show.
Variety spoke with 10 past and present workers at the company who accused Lauer of a vast array of sexual misconduct, including the woman who claims that she was sexually assaulted by the show s long-time anchor beginning in 2014 at the Sochi Olympics.That woman also shared her account with the human resources and legal departments of NBC News on Monday.NBC launched an investigation into her claims on Tuesday morning which ultimately led to Lauer s firing that same evening.
That swift response was still not enough for some women however, who said their complaints to executives at the company fell on deaf ears.Those interviewed said it was at the OIympic Games where Lauer made moves on a number of female staff members.
Lauer would invite women employed by NBC late at night to his hotel room while covering the Olympics in various cities over the years, claims Variety reporter Ramin Setoodeh.
He later told colleagues how his wife had accompanied him to the London Olympics because she didn t trust him to travel alone.
None of the 10 individuals who spoke with Variety are identified in the piece, including the woman who got the sex toy along with an explicit note about how he wanted to use it on her.
That woman said she was mortified, while a fellow co-worker s state was described as visibly shaken after Lauer allegedly flashed her in his office.When she did not do anything, Lauer reportedly reprimanded her for not engaging in a sexual act.
His office was in a secluded space, and he had a button under his desk that allowed him to lock his door from the inside without getting up, writes Setoodeh.
This afforded him the assurance of privacy.
It allowed him to welcome female employees and initiate inappropriate contact while knowing nobody could walk in on him.
That information came courtesy of two of the women who spoke with the writer of the piece.
He couldn t sleep around town with celebrities or on the road with random people because he s Matt Lauer and he s married.
So he d have to do it within his stable, where he exerted power, and he knew people wouldn t ever complain.
While not named, one woman, in particular, seemed to catch Lauer s eye according to thse interviewed for the piece.
Several employees recall how he paid intense attention to a young woman on his staff that he found attractive, focusing intently on her career ambitions, reads the story.
And he asked the same producer to his hotel room to deliver him a pillow.
Lauer s fixation on women s bodies and physical appearance is also a big part of the story, with multiple people saying that he would often play the game F***, Marry or Kill with staffers.One of the show s anchors would often gossip about Lauer s sexual escapades according to staffers while a former reporter said: Management sucks there.
They protected the s*** out of Matt Lauer.
Daily Mail