Even Fox News knows that Donald Trump and his administration are making false claims about the size of the audience at the inauguration.During a press briefing on Saturday, Trump s White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer whined about media coverage of the inauguration, claiming that they lied about the crowd size.
Yesterday, at a time when our nation and the world was watching the peaceful transition of power and, as the President said, the transition and the balance of power from Washington to the citizens of the United States, some members of the media were engaged in deliberately false reporting, Spicer began.He proceeded to make all sorts of claims that have since been shot down one by one, especially since aerial photographs taken at the time of Trump s inaugural address clearly show that he did not draw even half the crowd size President Obama drew in 2009.
This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period, Spicer said, claiming that the National Mall was packed from the Capitol to the Washington Monument.For the record, here s a time-stamped image of Trump s inauguration swearing-in ceremony AFTER it began compared to President Obama s in 2009 via PBS.And it s the aerial photographic evidence that Fox News host Chris Wallace hit Trump Chief of Staff Reince Priebus with during an interview on Sunday about Spicer and Trump s claims.First, Wallace wondered how Trump can say he is focused on helping all Americans when he is obsessed with crowd size.
President Trump said in his inaugural address that every decision he makes will be to benefit American families.
How does arguing about crowd size do that?
Wallace asked.Priebus claimed that Trump cares about honesty in the media and said the administration won t stand for false reporting.
But the media accurately reported on Trump s inauguration crowd size and Wallace grilled Priebus for claiming otherwise.Wallace showed Priebus an aerial image of Trump s crowd on the National Mall and it doesn t even come close to matching Trump s claims.
I think this is a ridiculous conversation, Wallace told Priebus after viewing the photo.
There were huge areas, he said there were crowds all the way to the Washington Monument.
Except the photos of the event clearly show that Trump s crowd was incredibly sparse and did not stretch near as far as he says it did.But Priebus continued to whine about the photo and claimed that it was taken before the ceremony began.
However, the picture provided above was taken more than 15 minutes AFTER the ceremony began and it clearly shows that Trump s inauguration crowd size was pathetic, especially when one compares it to President Obama s in 2009.Wallace even showed Priebus the photo again but he continued to recognize it as the truth.
I m telling you there were fewer people, Wallace told him.
Wallace would know because he was there.But then Priebus complained that the media is ignoring the substance of Trump s administration, to which Wallace replied by reminding Priebus that Trump has the chance to make the press briefing all about substance but chose instead to have Spicer complain about reports of the inauguration crowd size.Here s the video via YouTube:When even Fox News is calling out a Republican administration for lying, that s REALLY bad.Featured image via screenshot