Donald Trump set tongues wagging with a tweet on Monday promising a special guest scheduled to appear with him at campaign event in Iowa on Tuesday, January 19.
His campaign announced: He ll be making a major announcement & bringing a special guest.
Now, after some sleuthing by some conservatives online, it appears that the guest may be none other than failed Republican presidential candidate and half-term governor Sarah Palin.Eagle-eyed campaign watchers found a flight on a private jet that left Anchorage International Airport, and five hours later touched down at Des Moines International Airport.Since her campaign flameout, Palin has kept her brand alive at the center of conservative politics.
She has been a featured speaker at the CPAC conference and regularly has pumped out books targeted at conservative readers.
A pay-per-view video venture of hers was less successful and recently shuttered.
Palin recently put her gated Arizona mansion up for sale.Palin may be accused by some conservatives of being disloyal to Trump rival Ted Cruz, who she endorsed and campaigned for in the past.But Palin has also been a booster of Donald Trump.
Last November she said his nomination was a strong possibility.
I think it s a very real possibility because people are really tired of professional politicians who, you know, won t call it like they see it and maybe don t have life experiences that allow them to prove a track record of success, the former vice presidential nominee said in a radio interview with WBT Charlotte s News Talk radio on Thursday.
That s refreshing about Trump, she said.
He s a fighter.
We know he s gonna put America first, and he really nailed it early on what the main problems are in America right now, so it s a very real possibility.
In 2011 when there was speculation Palin might challenge President Obama in 2012, she took her bus tour to New York City and had a weird pizza date with Trump and his wife, Melania.While mostly a laughingstock to the public at large, Republican base voters remain enamored with Palin, and may view an endorsement by her of the reality TV star as a signal to select him as their candidate as the Iowa caucus waits only a couple of weeks away.Featured image via YouTube