Mark Cuban is not a fan on Donald Trump, and he made that perfectly clear in an interview with NBC News Chuck Todd on Friday.Todd brought up a hilarious comment that the NBA owner and Shark Tank star had previously made when Cuban was asked if he would consider being Hillary Clinton s running mate, because she needs someone like me who could just throw bombs at Donald Trump.
Todd asked Cuban: You joke that you would love to be Clinton s running mate, as long as you were allowed to throw bombs at Trump.
If she really did come to you, would you listen?
Having gotten his hatred for Trump out of the way, Cuban took on a more serious tone and revealed that he would love to be Clinton s VP pick, but she would have to meet one condition.
Cuban told Todd: Absolutely.
The key would be that she d have to go more to center.
I like the fact that Senator Clinton has thought out proposals.
That s a good thing, at least we get to see exactly where she stands.
Cuban s skepticism is because he feels that her Democratic rival, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, has dragged her a little bit too far to the left.
He explained: Things like college tuition and, you know, other business elements that really, I think, could hurt the economy.
If she s willing to listen, if she s willing to, you know, hear other sides of things, then I m wide open to discussing it.
You can watch Cuban s interview with Todd below:Cuban s comments come just a week after several anti-Trump Republicans tried to encourage Cuban to run for president in a third-party bid.
Cuban said there wasn t enough time to launch a third-party bid, and that the GOP was courting him for his bluster and volume, combined with substance and the ability to connect with voters on a more personal basis.
Basically, they were looking for another wealthy businessman, but one much more reasonable than Trump.
Last week, The Washington Post reported that because the Republican Party didn t want to stand behind Trump, they would try to get an independent candidate to take him out of the race.
The piece read: The recruiters also delved into the world of reality television for someone who might out-Trump Trump: Mark Cuban, the brash billionaire businessman and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team.
Cuban simply replied, I don t see it happening.
Featured image via Steve Jennings / Getty Images