Gateway Pundit is a popular publication among white supremacists, which means it will fit right in with the Trump administration.
The New York Times reports that The Donald has seen fit to grant the far-right website s Washington correspondent, Lucian B. Wintrich, press credentials, allowing him to attend White House press briefings and ask Sean Spicer questions.If Gateway Pundit sounds familiar to you, that s because the site s founder, Jim Hoft, was the source of the lie that Michael Brown fractured Officer Darren Wilson s eye socket before the Ferguson cop gunned him down in the street.
Hoft claimed a stock photo of an x-ray (he removed citations from the bottom of the photo) was of Darren Wilson s alleged orbital blowout fracture.
This literal fake news, as opposed to Trump s fake news, was repeated by Fox News and other right-wing sources.
In reality, the officer was diagnosed with a small bruise.In November, Hoft claimed that Michelle Obama had deleted Hillary Clinton from her Twitter history all the way back to 2013.
This story was repeated without fact-checking by Fox s Sean Hannity, but both were ultimately revealed to be shameless liars.Correction.
Live on radio I read a gateway pundit report that @MichelleObama had deleted mentions of HRC.
And a listener said BHO and Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) November 1, 2016Elizabeth Warren did same.
Fact is they didn't.
I humbly apologize.
Live radio Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) November 1, 2016He sources 4Chan, for f*ck s sake:Most recently, Hoft falsely accused Washington Post editor Doris Truong of taking pictures of Rex Tillerson s notes.
He has also claimed a photo of a NBA parade was a Trump rally, and helped fuel Trump s paid protesters lies with a fake story about a bus full of them traveling from Trump rally to Trump rally.Hoft and his cronies may be liars, but they have been staunchly pro-fascism as long as they have existed and they love him, so let them in!
It s not like they re those fake news purveyors at CNN, after all.Trump has as of late been favoring friendly news sources, and it is likely that he will continue to do so especially when he is filling the press pen with people who are willing to lie for him.featured image via Getty Images/Sean Rayford