21st Century Wire says Like CIA Director John Brennan, a large part of the job of James Clapper, National Intelligence Director, was to lie to the American people and to continually exaggerate certain threats, while trying to conceal real problems most of which are created by US federal agencies.
Like the CIA, this post has become a political one, and a government propaganda mouth piece for the deep state and all its domestic clandestine designs.When asked in 2013 by Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), Does the NSA collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?
Clapper s reponse was, No sir.
This was a flat out lie, under oath (which seemed to be the norm for all testimonies under 8 years of Obama).Chief among James Clapper s propaganda campaigns directed at the American people was the greatest politically motivated phony talking point to date: that Russia and its president Vladimir Putin were somehow hacking US Elections, while offering no evidence whatsoever to back up this alleged claim by the intelligence community, that irresponsible talking point was spun far out of control and probably set back US-Russian relations years.
Clapper claimed that leaked emails posted on WikiLeaks, DCLeaks.com and Guccifer 2.0, were identified as being associated with Russian intelligence even though most of the sober world has come to realize this grand conspiracy theory more than likely originated within the White House and the DNC itself.
In a just world, this howler would be a black mark against the credibility of Clapper for the rest of his paid speaking and lucrative conference junket career, but alas, it s not a just world Clapper will continue to cash in regardless.
Maybe that was the intention.There are a number of other things that Clapper said, and did, during his tenure, too many to mention here.
More from Adam Garrie Adam Garrie The DuranIn a first major resignation since Donald Trump s electoral victory, the US Director of National Intelligence James Clapper quit his post.US Director of National Intelligence James Clapper has just announced his resignation.
This was the man who presided over the US government spying on its citizens and those throughout the world.
This scandal was one whose existence Clapper denied, in spite of plain and clear evidence to the contrary.Edward Snowed had exposed numerous constitutional violations during Clapper s reign.
This man s exit from the Bush-created position of Director of National Intelligence should be welcomed by everyone who opposes the surveillance state.It has been under Clapper that the government has been cut free of any checks and balances on its use of technology to violate the privacy of ordinary individuals, yet individuals of extraordinary conscience who blow the whistle on the illegal covert activities of government are prosecuted, victimized, and threatened with execution.
I m referring specifically to Bradley Manning, Julian Assange and Edward Snowden.Clapper said that he is happy to resign.
I personally share in this happiness as will many others.
The timing of his resignation, which will be effective in 64 days, is a clear indication that he does not see eye to eye with his incoming boss, Donald Trump.If Clapper is replaced by someone guided by conscience rather than someone who uses George Orwell s 1984 as a handbook rather than a warning, it could well pave the way for the pardon of Manning, Assange and Snowden.One can only hope that Donald Trump does the right thing.READ MORE ELECTION NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire 2016 FilesSUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV