When one becomes any sort of public figure especially a political public figure one s past is often scrutinized.
Therefore, it is pretty much standard practice for potential campaign officials to vet the potential candidate prior to launching any sort of run for public office.
However, when GOP nominee Donald Trump s original campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, sought to do this, Trump himself pulled the plug on any such endeavor.According to Bloomberg Politics, Lewandowski requested that Trump s past be looked into before he even filed to run for president.
However, Trump refused, which means that his campaign officials have been caught completely off guard by things like the lewd tape from the Access Hollywood bus, as well as by the subsequent allegations that he groped multiple women without their consent over the years.
Apparently, the same thing happened with Trump s second campaign manager, Paul Manafort.
Allegedly, Manafort wanted to vet Trump just like Lewandowski did, but was rebuffed.
As a result of this, the only things Lewandowski was prepared to combat were Trump s monetary contributions to Democratic causes and politicians, and his Iraq war comments.
All the rest was off limits.This is exceedingly odd, considering that any information found on the part of Team Trump would be used to prepare for any backlash relating to things that might come out from the candidate s past, as has happened in the last week and a half or so.
Such secrecy would lead one to believe that there is something out there so bad that Trump feared people bailing on his then-fledgling campaign if they should find out about it.As for Trump s current spin master campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway?
Well, she s just as in the dark as her predecessors were.
She went on Fox News on Thursday and said of the dumping of information on Trump s past: I don t know what s out there.
There s no way to know what is and isn t out there.
Ohhh, Kellyanne.
Dear, dear Kellyanne.
You might not know exactly what else is out there, but you seem to be an intelligent pollster/GOP operative.
You can figure it out.
And, as a woman and as a mother, you should be ashamed of yourself for continuing to deflect and defend a man whose past includes such behavior.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images