During his campaign, Donald Trump routinely called Hillary Clinton crooked and at one point he told supporters his Democratic opponent should be in prison.
Trump s supporters responded by chanting Lock her up!
at each of his rallies.No matter how many times she was absolved after countless investigation, conservatives were sure Clinton was corrupt and they were certain Trump would hold her accountable.
As it happens, Trump will not follow through with that campaign promise.Trump aide Kellyanne Conway tried to spin Trump s sudden flip-flop on MSNBC s Morning Joe : I think when the President-elect, who s also the head of your party, tells you before he s even inaugurated that he doesn t wish to pursue these charges, it sends a very strong message, tone, and content to other Republicans, former Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said Tuesday.
If Donald Trump can help her heal, then perhaps that s a good thing to do, Conway continued, adding that Clinton still has to face the fact that a majority of Americans don t find her to be honest or trustworthy.
Well, that s a lie.
Votes are still being counted but as of right now, Clinton leads in the popular vote by 1.7 million.
I think he s thinking of many different things as he prepares to become the president of the United States, and things that sound like the campaign are not among them, she said.Watch: Special prosecutor, here we come, Right?
Trump said in October as the crowd began another lock her up chant.
If I win, we re going to appoint a special prosecutor, Trump said.
Because we cannot allow this to happen in our country.
This isn t the first campaign promise Trump has broken and he s not even in office yet.
The president-elect is not really going to fully repeal Obamacare.
Mexico is not going to pay for the wall even though he whipped his supporters into a frenzy over that concept at each rally.
Trump is now embracing NATO, the alliance he claimed was obsolete.
The Trump presidency is going to be about only one thing: Donald Trump.Image via screen capture.