Donald Trump has long insisted that he is going to build a massive wall along the U.S-Mexico border, and force the Mexican government to pay for it.
Most people, regardless of political affiliations, find the idea to be nothing short of absurd.
Well, Trump is determined, and now he has explained that Mexico will pay for that wall or else.ABC News reports that Trump details his plan for the wall on his campaign website, and boy is it a doozy of bullying and strongman tactics.
Trump s campaign says: It s an easy decision for Mexico: Make a one-time payment of 5 to 10 billion dollars to ensure that 24 billion continues to flow into their country year after year.
The cash flow to Mexico that Trump is rambling on about here is a reference to Mexican immigrants living in America who wire money to help relatives in their native country.
This is clearly something Trump doesn t like.
He calls the practice of helping one s family financially if said family happens to live in Mexico de facto welfare for poor families in Mexico.
Because of course he does.
How will he stop people from wiring money?
Well, he ll force each and every person who wishes to transfer any money at all to Mexico to prove to the government that they are here in the U.S. by legal means.
Never mind the massive undertaking such an operation would be, of course.
What Trump wants, Trump gets.If that isn t shocking enough for you, there s more.
Trump says that if that isn t enough to make Mexico bankroll his silly wall, then he will turn to canceling visas, which is something he wants to do anyway because he calls the issuing of Visas to Mexican nationals one of our greatest leverage points in this whole insane border wall plan.If the threatening of the visas of Mexican nationals currently in the United States and all the other nonsense he s laid out here doesn t force Mexico to submit to The Donald s authoritarian plan, then, by god, he ll jack the prices of visas and that will finance the wall to keep all those Mexicans from immigrating to the United States.If this so-called policy plan doesn t tell people how insanely dangerous Donald Trump is, there s nothing that will.
This is, on a legal level, questionable at best, and most likely flat-out illegal.
But it s Donald Trump, and laws and the Constitution don t really seem to matter to him when it comes to his insane policies that target all the people he doesn t like.Make no mistake, this man is dangerous, and has no business anywhere near the White House.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images