Fresh off of being compared to Satan by John Boehner and dropping out of the 2016 presidential race, Saturday Night Live piled on by bringing back a familiar character to mock Ted Cruz.Dana Carvey returned for a special appearance as the Church Lady and the first guest was none other than Ted Cruz played by Taran Killiam, whom the Church Lady introduced as Satan.Cruz corrected the Church Lady, claiming that Boehner always has nicknames for him like buster or son of a gun.
I believe the phrase was Lucifer in the flesh, Church Lady responded.
A little bit different than buster.'
Church Lady then asked why the 2016 race didn t work out for him.
I suppose the American people weren t ready for a candidate with strong Christian values, Cruz explained.
Someone like me who follows the righteous path and lives his faith every blessed moment.
Has anyone ever told you that you re just a little preachy, Church Lady pointed out before noting that Cruz loves himself too much.
There it is, Church Lady said noting Cruz s face.
That s that happy superior face because we love Jesus more than anybody.
Cruz said that he believes everything that happened is part of God s plan.
Was it part of God s plan for you to get humiliated by an orange mannequin?
That s an odd plan for God to have for you, Church Lady replied.Killiam s Cruz then mentioned that he s been told to go to hell so many times that he s thinking about turning evil and going there to check it out before letting out a creepy and awkward laugh.
As he left, Church Lady told him that she would see him in hell.Church Lady then introduced Donald Trump as her next guest and promptly asked him if he ever reads the Bible.Trump, as played by Darrell Hammond, launched into how he enjoyed reading Corinthians Part Deux and Too Genesis, Too Furious.
He then attempted to quoted from the Bible.
Love thy neighbor as thyself and like a good neighbor State Farm is there, Trump said.
He also said he loved the part where Game of Thrones character Jon Snow comes back from the dead.
That s great Bible, Trump declared, leading the Church Lady to say her famous line, Well, isn t that special.
Here s the video via NBC.The way Republican candidates have obsessed with religion over the course of this election, it was definitely an appropriate time for the Church Lady to return.Featured image via screenshot