If you had wanted to give Trump supporters the benefit of the doubt, this most recent incident proves that it s far too much to give them.A 56-year-old man in Allen Park, Michigan has just been charged with six felonies after he held six children at gunpoint because he thought they d damaged the Donald Trump sign on his lawn.
Yes, this is the kind of deranged, emotionally unstable supporters Trump has attracted.The man, Michael Robert Kubek, had called police on October 29th to report that his Trump sign had been hit by teenagers, who had fled the scene.
When the police arrived at the scene, they didn t find Kubek at his home however, when the officers followed the screams coming from around the corner, there he was.The police saw Kubek standing over six children ages 12-14, who were sitting on the grass.
Kubek accused the children of destroying his sign despite the fact that he never actually witnessed them doing it.
The children denied any involvement, and the officers told Kubek to return to his house so they could speak to the children.According to the kids, they were simply on their way to the park for a birthday celebration when Kubek had pulled out a gun and pointed it at them, instructing them to sit down on the grass.
Those witnessing the act took to social media to vent their shock:TwitterTwitterThe News-Herald reported: The officer asked him again if he could identify any of the kids as the one who damaged his sign, but Kubek repeated that he could not.
The officer then asked Kubek if he pulled out a pistol and pointed it at the kids.
According to police, Kubek said yes.
In response to another question from the officer, Kubek said he felt threatened because he was outnumbered.
Yes, a grown man used a gun because he felt outnumbered by a small group of innocent kids.
This is EXACTLY the type of unhinged person who shouldn t be trusted with firearms!
Kubek s hearing is scheduled for December 5th let s hope that whatever happens to Kubek, that he is no longer considered a responsible gun owner.You can watch a report below:Featured image via Allen Park Police Department and Joe Raedle / Getty Images