We reported about Trump making similar comments back in August HERE.
More than ever, America desires a leader who will keep our nation safe.
While the leftist media cringes at just about everything Trump says, his poll numbers continue to climb.
Maybe it s not really a mystery why Trump is doing so well in the polls Maybe America is just 100% Fed Up with a weakling in the White House who doesn t appear to have our best interests at heart and we re looking for someone who is actually interested in winning the war on terror Sunday on ABC s This Week, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said he would bring back waterboarding as an interrogation technique because he said, I think waterboarding is peanuts compared to what they re doing us.
When asked about a Muslim database Trump explained, I want a database for the refugees that if they come into the country.
We have no idea who these people are when the Syrian refugees start pouring into this country.
We don t know if it s ISIS.
I definitely want a database and other checks and balances.
We have no idea who s being sent in here.
It could be the great Trojan Horse of all time.
when they come in.
When I look at the migration and the lines and I see all strong, very powerful looking men, they re men, very few women and children, There s something strange going on.
When asked if we should bring back enhanced interrogation like waterboarding Trump said, We have to be strong.
They don t use waterboarding, they used chopping off peoples heads.
They use drowning people.
I don t know if you have seen with the cages, where they put people in cages and they drown them in the ocean and they lift out the cage, and we are taking about waterboarding I would bring it back, yes, I would bring it back.
I think waterboarding is peanuts compared to what they re doing us.
What they did to James Foley, when they chopped off his head.
That s a whole different level.
I would absolutely bring back interrogation and strong interrogation.
Via: Breitbart News