President Trump was right again!
His campaign manager was wiretapped so he was possibly surveilled indirectly.The FBI s effort the second time the FISA warrant was issued is unconstitutional.
The fake Russian dossier was put forward to allow the door to be open for surveillance:BOOM: Second Wiretap on Manafort could have been illegal b/c they obtained FISA request based on FAKE TRUMP DOSSIER that FBI payed 100K for!
pic.twitter.com/DeGadGnM91 STOCK MONSTER (@StockMonsterUSA) September 18, 2017WAS THE RUSSIAN DOSSIER MADE UP TO OPEN THE DOOR FOR WIRETAPPING?Sources say the second warrant was part of the FBI s efforts to investigate ties between Trump campaign associates and suspected Russian operatives.
Such warrants require the approval of top Justice Department and FBI officials, and the FBI must provide the court with information showing suspicion that the subject of the warrant may be acting as an agent of a foreign power.
Very wrong!PAUL MANAFORT WIRETAPPED US investigators wiretapped former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort under secret court orders before and after the election, sources tell CNN, an extraordinary step involving a high-ranking campaign official now at the center of the Russia meddling probe.The government snooping continued into early this year, including a period when Manafort was known to talk to President Donald Trump.
Some of the intelligence collected includes communications that sparked concerns among investigators that Manafort had encouraged the Russians to help with the campaign, according to three sources familiar with the investigation.
Two of these sources, however, cautioned that the evidence is not conclusive.Special counsel Robert Mueller s team, which is leading the investigation into Russia s involvement in the election, has been provided details of these communications.A secret order authorized by the court that handles the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) began after Manafort became the subject of an FBI investigation that began in 2014.
It centered on work done by a group of Washington consulting firms for Ukraine s former ruling party, the sources told CNN.
The surveillance was discontinued at some point last year for lack of evidence, according to one of the sources.The FBI then restarted the surveillance after obtaining a new FISA warrant that extended at least into early this year.
Sources say the second warrant was part of the FBI s efforts to investigate ties between Trump campaign associates and suspected Russian operatives.
Such warrants require the approval of top Justice Department and FBI officials, and the FBI must provide the court with information showing suspicion that the subject of the warrant may be acting as an agent of a foreign power.Read more: CNN