It s freaking awesome to be white in America.
As a white person myself, I don t say this because I think white people are superior.
No, I say it because white people don t have to deal with this kind of total bullshit on a daily basis:In the video uploaded to YouTube, a man identified by The Free Thought Project as 29-year-old Charles Harrell, can be seen on screen with a police officer on a bicycle following closely behind him.
You can t be a black man and enjoy your morning, because the police are going to harass you in Cincinnati, Ohio, Harrell explained.
Walking down the street, the cop just asked me if I have a problem.
Off-camera the officer, identified as Baron Osterman, can be heard telling Harrell that he crossed against the light on the deserted street.
Sir, you were scaring me, sir.
I don t know why were following me, anyway, Harrell replied.
You were following me all the way down the street.
If you watch the video, the cop was following Harrell obviously looking for a reason to stop him.
As soon as he crossed against the light, the officer leapt into action to deal with the dastardly crime of drinking coffee while black jaywalking.
Harrell is arrested because he had the gall to stand up for his civil right not to be harassed for no reason whatsoever.Here s the video: I m 42 years old and I have literally never been stopped by a cop while walking in my life except that one time I jumped a turnstile in high school.
This is why it s awesome to be white in America.
The cops don t see you as you go about your life and you don t see them.
But if you re black, especially a black male?
You have a giant neon sign over your head that says CAUTION!
POTENTIAL CRIMINAL!
Most white people don t understand this reality at all.
Even white people like me that do understand it only do so on an intellectual level.
The closest I can get to understanding it on an emotional level is this:You know that feeling of dread you get when you re driving and a cop car gets in your lane behind you?
Your heart rate goes up and you get nervous.
Did you forget to signal a turn?
Is one of your lights out?
Are you speeding?
What does he want?
What?
WHAT?
!Now imagine the cop car is always behind you everywhere you drive and if you sneeze the wrong way, those flashing lights are going to turn on instantly.
That s what I imagine it must be like to be like to be black in a heavily policed community.
Oh, and as a bonus, instead of getting a ticket, there s a good chance you ll get the shit beaten out of you, arrested or shot.
Or possibly all three.
Also, you ll be called a nigger thug and smeared by the liberal media if there s even a single picture of you holding a beer.Until we stop pretending that black people bring all this trouble on themselves, America s race problem will never go away.Featured image via screencap