U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters attacked President Trump about 27 seconds into her speech to homeless LGBTQ youth at the Ali Forney Center in New York City earlier this month.She began her speech with: Wow, what a moving evening this is.
I m sitting here listening, watching, absorbing, thinking about Ali even though I never met him.
And with this kind of inspiration, I will go and take Trump out tonight, she said, pumping her fist as the crowd roared with approval.On Monday, Waters offered no apologies for her promise to take out Trump during an interview with CNN s New Day, and instead doubled down on her commitment to impeach the president.
Those words have been interpreted as an attempt on the president s life, CNN s Chris Cuomo told Waters.
How did you intend them?
That s absolutely ridiculous, nobody believes that, Waters said.
A 79-year-old grandmother who is a congresswoman and who has been in Congress and politics for all these years talking about doing any harm.
The only harm I may be doing to the president is I want him impeached, Waters said.She alleged the folks who oppose her efforts to unseat the president, and the people who want her out of office, are racists.
And those people who are so opposed to my leadership on impeachment are organizing the right wing, the white nationals, the KKK, they have organized an effort to try and, of course, defeat me in my election coming up and to discredit me, Waters said.
Everybody knows that I m on the front lines not talking about any physical harm to anybody, but I am talking about impeachment and I m not going to stop.
She then went on to name all the reasons she hates Trump, though none of them include a legal justification for removing the president.
I believe this president is not worthy, she said.
I believe this president should not be representing our country.
He has alienated our allies.
He continues to lie, day in and day out.
He creates controversy.
He can t get along with the members of Congress.
He needs to be impeached.
I want him impeached.
And I m going to continue my efforts to call for his impeachment.
Cuomo pointed out that Waters comments represent ugly talk, and questioned whether those who oppose Trump should be the change that you want to see and have a high level of decency in how you discuss those whom you want to criticize, especially when it s the president of the United States.
Waters alleged she s been extremely responsible in laying out the case for why this president should be impeached.
The problem is racists, she said.
I know that the right wing, the white nationalists, all of those who have organized around this president, do not like this.
And people are not accustomed to a woman, in particular an African American woman, taking this kind of leadership, she said.
How dare me challenge the president of the United States, but we have never witnessed a president who has been as irresponsible and as dangerous as this president.
And I think that we need to step up to the plate and tell the truth and speak truth to power and that s what I m doing and that s what I m going to continue to do.
Waters has used every platform available to her to continue her crusade against President Trump It s only making her look totally unhinged.