Former White House Chief Strategist Stephen K. Bannon left the White House today and has already returned as Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, where he will continue to go to war for President Trump.Unfortunately for the Left, Steve Bannon will continue to go to war for Trump against his opponents, he just won t be conducting the war from the White House anymore.
There are very few conservatives in America who really know how to beat the left at their own game.
Conservatives need someone like Steve Bannon more than ever right now.
Fortunately for us, he doesn t plan to walk away from the fight.
Josh Caplan reports that Bannon will continue his fight for Trump from the outside after his exit from the White House today.FULL STATEMENT: Bannon says he s going to war for Trump after White House exit pic.twitter.com/e61m6bb74O Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) August 18, 2017 If there s any confusion out there, let me clear it up: I m leaving the White House and going to war for Trump against his opponents on Capitol Hill, in the media, and in corporate America, Bannon told Bloomberg News Friday in his first public comments after his departure was announced.Bannon led the evening editorial meeting at Breitbart, where he resumed his role as executive chairman, the website said in a statement.
A person who was on the call said Bannon called on the group to hunker down and work like never before to advance conservative causes.
Bloomberg The populist-nationalist movement got a lot stronger today, said Breitbart News Editor-in-Chief Alex Marlow.
Breitbart gained an executive chairman with his finger on the pulse of the Trump agenda.
Breitbart News CEO and President Larry Solov agreed.
Breitbart s pace of global expansion will only accelerate with Steve back, said Solov.
The sky s the limit.
Bannon joined the Trump campaign on August 17, 2016 nearly one year ago to the day of his return to Breitbart.
He submitted his intention to leave the White House on August 7 of this year.
White House Chief of Staff John Kelly and Steve Bannon have mutually agreed today would be Steve s last day, said White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders Friday afternoon.
We are grateful for his service and wish him the best.
Breitbart