As commander-in-chief, shouldn t the Army field manual apply to the president as well as the men and women he commands?Because one psychiatrist brilliantly used the Army field manual to demonstrate that Donald Trump is mentally unfit to be president.Dr.
Prudence L. Gourguechon wrote an editorial for the Los Angeles Times detailing how Trump s behavior makes him an unfit leader and she proved it by consulting the field manual used by the United States Army.After pointing out that the 25th Amendment of the Constitution has been getting a lot of attention recently because of Trump s behavior, Dr. Gourguechon said that after searching through thousands of articles and books written on leadership, primarily in the business arena, I have found only one source where the capacities necessary for strategic leadership are clearly and comprehensively laid out: the U.S. Army s Field Manual 6-22 Leader Development.
That is particularly interesting since Trump is the commander of America s armed forces.Specifically, the manual discusses the areas of trust, discipline and self-control, judgement and critical thinking, self-awareness, and empathy.
And as Dr. Gourguechon notes, Trump fails in every category.On trust, the manual states that Leaders shape the ethical climate of their organization while developing the trust and relationships that enable proper leadership.
Gouguechon elaborated.A leader who is deficient in the capacity for trust makes little effort to support others, may be isolated and aloof, may be apathetic about discrimination, allows distrustful behaviors to persist among team members, makes unrealistic promises and focuses on self-promotion.As we know, Trump doesn t trust people and he sows an environment of distrust.
And let s not pretend that Trump hasn t made unrealistic promises or promoted himself.On discipline and self-control, the manual mentions traits such as selflessness, respect, integrity, and courage.
If you are laughing, it s because you know that Trump has none of these traits.
In fact, he is the most undisciplined and selfish person on the planet.
Or at the very least the most undisciplined and selfish person who has ever lived in the White House.
Without discipline and self-control, a leader may not be able to resist temptation, to stay focused despite distractions, to avoid impulsive action or to think before jumping to a conclusion, Dr. Gourguechon wrote.
The leader who fails to demonstrate discipline reacts viscerally or angrily when receiving bad news or conflicting information, and he allows personal emotions to drive decisions or guide responses to emotionally charged situations.
On judgement and critical thinking, the manual makes it clear that Trump has no business being the commander-in-chief.A leader with the capacity for critical thinking seeks to obtain the most thorough and accurate understanding possible, the manual says, and he anticipates first, second and third consequences of multiple courses of action.
A leader deficient in judgment and strategic thinking demonstrates rigid and inflexible thinking.The manual also makes it clear that Trump lacks self-awareness.
It describes him perfectly.
Self-aware leaders know themselves, including their traits, feelings, and behaviors, the manual says.
They employ self-understanding and recognize their effect on others.
When a leader lacks self-awareness, the manual notes, he unfairly blames subordinates when failures are experienced and rejects or lacks interest in feedback.
The same goes for empathy.A good leader demonstrates an understanding of another person s point of view and identifies with others feelings and emotions.
The manual s description of inadequacy in this area: Shows a lack of concern for others emotional distress and displays an inability to take another s perspective.
So if we go by the military leadership standards outlined in the Army field manual, Trump should be removed from office as soon as possible.
He definitely should not have been allowed to take office in the first place.
Americans need to take Trump s behavior seriously.
He literally controls the most powerful military in the world, and the military would never voluntarily make him their leader if they follow this manual.
That speaks volumes.Featured Image: Ralph Freso/Getty Images