When will Sarah Palin learn that the best response when someone says something not-so-nice about her is to shut up?Recently, President Obama pointed out that he sees a straight line between the disaster that was the vice presidential nomination of the half-wit, half-term former Governor of Alaska as being the incredibly stupid straw that broke the very unfortunate camel s back when it comes to right-wing politics, the figure who helped give power to the Tea Party, the Freedom Caucus, and other far-right groups whose members very likely know how to put out a meth lab explosion and still make the baby s room look OK by the next day all without getting soot on their robes and hoods, no less!
I see a straight line from the announcement of Sarah Palin as the vice-presidential nominee to what we see today in Donald Trump, the emergence of the Freedom Caucus, the tea party, and the shift in the center of gravity for the Republican Party, the president told New York Magazine.
Whether that changes, I think, will depend in part on the outcome of this election, but it s also going to depend on the degree of self-reflection inside the Republican Party.
There have been at least a couple of other times that I ve said confidently that the fever is going to have to break, but it just seems to get worse.
Sarah Palin may not be smart but even she can see an insult from her back porch.
And, of course, Mama Grizzly wasn t about to take that lying down.
On Monday, she posted a scathing reply to Obama one that surely burned his black soul (that s black as in the color, not black in the way she would point it out) to its very core.
There s a reason pro-American activists have been living rent free in President Obama s head these past eight years, Palin wrote, adding the usual rhetoric about the national debt, destroying our children s future, etc.
THAT S what should occupy the President s headspace, not some hockey mom from Alaska.
She linked to a fluff piece from Independent Journal Review, where the truth goes to die, titled Obama Mentioned Sarah Palin Twice In 2 Weeks.
She Has An Idea On What He Should Focus On Instead.
Someone should compare that to how many times she has mentioned Obama in two weeks of her mad, delusional, drunken ravings.
Palin, whose son recently had to deal with a little teeny incident in which he hit his girlfriend and made threats with a gun and the undisputed champion of the Great Birthday Party Drunken Brawl of 2014, learned very quickly (oh, let s face it she probably learned nothing) what happens when you say stupid things about the President on the internet.There's a reason pro-American activists have been living rent free in President Obama's head these past eight https://t.co/We0lNb2Lqh Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) October 3, 2016Twitter responded with an epic barrage of truth and mockery, most centered on her strong and unwavering support for one of the few people in history who actually may be worse than Hitler.
@SarahPalinUSA like Trump has been living tax-free for the last twenty years?
jacqui rodham (@heyjdey) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA @INJO you should thank Obama for mentioning you.
you're sinking, thankfully, into obscurity Clodagh Smith (@Clodagh831) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA Unfunded liabilities?
Like all the wars Chimpy McFlightsuit got us in?
taMMay!
(@thefiveohtwo) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA pro-American activists?
You hate any American that doesn't believe what you do.
Michael Hendricks (@mikeekimcurtis) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA @INJO Shut up and go back to huntin wolves from a helicopter dum dum.
Matt Houser (@realmattyvegas) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA you're a joke.
Delete your account Pastor Bukake (@RevJizzMop) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA @INJO as opposed to your head which is a vacant lot with the occasional tumbleweed passing through Burly Aces (@burlyaces) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA @INJO Still dumber than a bag of hair M (@markl5228) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA Does your shitty son charge rent when he beats women?
(((Om Ingram))) (@OmIngram) October 3, 2016@SarahPalinUSA You were relevant for one month, eight years ago.
Chicago Man (@Iwanski) October 3, 2016One thing is for certain: it s hilarious that Obama has stayed largely silent over the years, weathering insult after insult from Palin and the rest of the Stupid Part of America, and when the President finally delivered a well-deserved traditional classy insult buried in an honest statement, she can t handle it at all.
Just goes to show what thin-skinned bullies Palin, Trump, and their ilk really are.Featured image via Getty Images(Kris Connor)/screengrab