Hillary Clinton praised London s socialized medicine after a fall down the stairs sent her to the hospital for examination.
She came out wearing a boot on her foot.
She says she broke her toe .HummmBut wait!
Her communications director Nick Merrill tweeted this out:She said she twisted her ankle So which is it?
We call BS!HRC on The Graham Norton Show, joking about how she caught her heel on some steps & twisted her ankle earlier today.
Back to the book tour!
pic.twitter.com/Fk30HLjNat Nick Merrill (@NickMerrill) October 16, 2017Does anyone REALLY believe that Hillary Clinton couldn t make three appearances because she fell down the stairs?
There are no details out there that say when she did this.
She really never wears heels and the photo from last night shows she s wearing short boots.
It just seems there s something else going on here besides a simple broken toe.Could it be that Hillary is getting the pushback she didn t expect from interviewers?
She bristled and was visibly irritated when asked about Wikileaks in the interview just yesterday on Australian TV (see below).We re just not buying this one but here s what the media had to say about Clinton s cancellation of some interviews while in London:Washington Examiner reported:Hillary Clinton canceled several media appearances Monday while on her book tour in London after she fell down the stairs and broke her toe.
I was running down the stairs in heels with a cup of coffee in hand, I was talking over my shoulder and my heel caught and I fell backwards, Clinton told The Graham Nortion Show.
I tried to get up and it really hurt.
I ve broken my toe.
I ve received excellent care from your excellent health service.
The former Democratic nominee was supposed to do interviews with BBC Radio 4 s Woman s Hour, ITV s This Morning show and the BBC s The Graham Norton Show.
Clinton has been on tour promoting her book, What Happened, which details her election loss to President Trump.SHE S A REPEAT OFFENDER WHEN IT COMES TO LATENESS:This follows a string of late arrivals by the former US secretary of state over the weekend.Mrs Clinton was an hour and 40 minutes late for a speech at the Cheltenham Literature Festival on Sunday to promote her new book, What Happened.Hillary Clinton finally arrives 1hr 40 mins later than scheduled for her live chat at the Cheltenham Literature Festival pic.twitter.com/ZWxep0TkfW David Woodland (@DWoodlanditv) October 15, 2017She was also delayed a similar amount of time on Saturday, when she was presented with an honorary doctorate at Swansea University.WHAT S UP WITH HILLARY NOW?She was seen last night going out to dinner with Huma Abedin and a dozen body guards:Her interview in Australia is a crazy ride: She s really come undone in this latest interview Hillary Clinton became visibly irritated during an interview with Australian TV when she was asked about Wikileaks Assange.The interview with local Australian TV has several delusional moments that reveal her continued bitterness and downright psychosis when it comes to the 2016 election loss to Donald Trump.
I think Assange has become a nihilistic opportunist who does the bidding of a dictator, Clinton said, apparently referring to Russia s Vladimir Putin.When the interviewer noted many people view Assange as a martyr for free speech and freedom of information.
Clinton wasn t having it and shot back: I mean, he s a tool of Russian intelligence.
If he s such a martyr for free speech, why doesn t WikiLeaks ever publish anything coming out of Russia?
The interviewer then did something our American media never does.
She challenged Clinton with this question: Isn t he just doing what journalists do which is publish information when they get it?
HERE S WHERE HILLARY GOES OFF THE RAILS: I don t think so, Hillary snapped.
I think for number one, it s stolen information, and number two, if all you did was publish it, that would be one thing, she asserted, before claiming there was a concerted operation between WikiLeaks and Russia and most likely, people in the United States to, as I say, weaponized that information.
Hillary Clinton says Julian Assange is a tool of Russian intelligence .
@HillaryClinton says @JulianAssange is a "tool of Russian intelligence".
Watch the interview tonight on #4Corners.
pic.twitter.com/htY89d7GVe 4corners (@4corners) October 15, 2017HERE S WHERE ASSANGE NAILS HILLARY:Assange came back at Clinton with a PERFECT description of her cold creepiness .
He tweeted out that people should watch closely and see that there is something much darker than the lying and menacing glares : There s something wrong with Hillary Clinton.
It is not just her constant lying, he tweeted.
It is not just that she throws off menacing glares and seethes thwarted entitlement.
Watch closely.
Something much darker rides along with it.
A cold creepiness rarely seen.
The interviewer goes on to ask Hillary about Fox News:.
@HillaryClinton says @FoxNews no longer a journalism outfit.
pic.twitter.com/DUWM5WphCG 4corners (@4corners) October 16, 2017In more from the interview, it s clear Hillary needs some therapy.
She claims that Jim Comey shivved her .
That is a prison term for being murdered with a knife.
What the heck made her use that term?
Now that s REALLY creepy!She also lied AGAIN and said our voting systems were attacked: