Donald Trump is having a very difficult time finding a vice presidential running mate, and it s not hard to see why.
After all, the guy is political poison for anyone who wants a post-Trump political career.
Two potential VP picks, Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), have now withdrawn themselves from the short list of potential candidates for consideration for Trump s running mate.Of course, in her remarks, Ernst was in no way critical of Trump.
She s clearly one of those party-before-country types who won t say a bad word against The Donald, but she also seems to want nothing to do with potentially being vice president under such a man.
Ernst said: I made that very clear to him that I m focused on Iowa.
I feel that I have a lot more to do in the United States Senate.
And Iowa is where my heart is.
I m just getting started here.
I have a great partner with Chuck Grassley, we ve been able to accomplish a lot.
And I think that President Trump will need some great assistance in the United States Senate and I can provide that.
Like all good Republican toy soldiers lining up behind their bigoted standard-bearer, Ernst still wants there to be a President Trump, and says she will do what she can to make that happen.
She said of the baffling decision to make sure the orange one is elected: I will probably participate more as an advocate.
I would love to assist him out on the trail.
Senator Corker was much less enthusiastic when announced his own withdrawal, only saying: There are people far more suited for being a candidate for vice president and I think I m far more suited for other types of things.
There were no laudatory words about Trump, and nor was there any kind of promise to help Trump get elected.
In other words, this guy is not going to be associated with Donald Trump in any way.
And who can blame him?
Trump s bigotry, praise of dictators, ignorance of the rule of law and any number of other repugnant things make him absolute political poison.Trump better stick to Christie and Gingrich.
They re the only two who are dumb enough and/or have little enough to lose to attach themselves to a potential Trump administration.Featured image via Marc Piscotty/Getty Images