He has been tried.
He has been convicted.
And now he has been sentenced for lying about his expertise and background to the United States Government.Fox News often brought Wayne Simmons aboard the channel to deliver his expert analysis on terrorism as a former CIA operative whenever a terrorist attack occurred somewhere in the world.Most notably, he appeared on the network after the terrorist attack in Paris last year that killed 130 people.
Not only did he claim that there were hundreds of Muslim-controlled no-go zones across Europe, which Fox had to apologize for, he claimed that Muslims had 19 paramilitary training facilities in the Unites States.In January, Simmons appeared on Fox and called for surrounding these non-existent no-go zones with razor wire and shutting off utilities until all the Muslims surrender to be categorized by authorities.
That s how you close these no-go zones, he said before using his false expertise to scare Americans with lies.
It is incomprehensible that anywhere in the United States, these types of things would be allowed and, yet, my friend Ryan Mauro, as you probably know, reported that through the Clarion Project that we ve got at least 19 paramilitary Muslim training facilities in the United States.
Are you kidding me?
What are, what are they gonna do, go hunt deer during deer season?
No.
They re using paramilitary exercises to plan and execute these types of operations all over the United States.
Here s the video via YouTube.But Simmons was soon outed as a fraud and now he gets to become a real expert at how to survive in prison.On Friday, Simmons was sentenced to serve 33 months behind bars portraying himself as an Outside Paramilitary Special Operations Officer for the CIA for nearly 30 years to get jobs within and outside of the government, which included his stint on Fox News and being sent to Afghanistan as an intelligence adviser.The 62-year-old was also sentenced by U.S. District Judge T.S.
Ellis III to three years of supervision after his eventual release.
He must also surrender two firearms and pay $176,000.
Wayne Simmons is a fraud, U.S. Attorney Dana Boente said.
Simmons has no military or intelligence background, or any skills relevant to the positions he attained through his fraud.
Simmons frightened Americans for years through his appearances on Fox News and he put the lives of our troops in danger because of his lies.It makes one wonder how many other Fox News experts should be in prison right next to him.Featured Image: Screenshot