When faced with deciding if you re going to perform or not in a state that decided to make discrimination legal, many performers are left feeling there is only one option boycott.
And while very effective, because not only does it remove revenue from the state surrounding the performance, it also pisses off a lot of people who were looking forward to the show.
People, who will then want to know why one of their favorite performers decided not to show up, if they didn t know already.Comedian Joel McHale, however, went another route to combat the hatred of the new bigoted North Carolina anti-LGBT law.
Instead, he decided to keep his performance date in Durham, yet he then donated every single dime from the show to the local LGBTQ organization.McHale s rep told People: Joel is vehemently opposed to HB2 and knows there are many in Durham (which recently passed a measure condemning the law) that share the feeling.
He felt this was a good way to raise awareness and much needed funds for a local center that is on the front line of this important cause.
The actor even wore a LGBTQ Durham shirt on stage in support of the local community who is devastatingly impacted by this outrageous law.
@joelmchale @DPAC tonight in LGBTQ shirt & announced1 Donating all $ from show to LGBT Center2 He'll come back to NC after HB2 is repealed Demetri Ravanos (@DemetriRavanos) April 9, 2016 My good buddy @joelmchale made a nice shirt for the #LGBTQDurham community.
#LGBTQ #joelMcHale gave all the money he made tonight to LGBTQ Durham, pretty sweet move.A photo posted by JF Harris (@jfharris_comedy) on Apr 8, 2016 at 7:41pm PDT During a video of the performance you can hear McHale call the law f*cking crazy, and completely lay into the absurdity of legislated hate.In this world, you can choose to love and embrace everyone as the people that they are, ironically something the Bible actually urges people to do once you get past the Old Testament, or you can choose to hate and live in the small, myopic mind that you haven t allowed yourself to escape.
However, in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., hate is too great a burden to bear, it s actually easier to love, and hopefully the lawmakers in North Carolina realize this sooner than later.Kudos to you, Mr. McHale, this gesture will not be forgotten.Featured Photo by Angela Weiss/Getty Images