Liberal heads explode in 5 4 3 2 1President Trump could win the White House again in 2020 which likely would send hostile political operatives and the disapproving news media into an epic meltdown.
News flash: Get ready.
Mr. Trump will likely win re-election, says one analyst.
President Trump did not ascend to the White House in the usual way; he broke with traditional campaign orthodoxy and tactics, Ford O Connell, a political analyst and adjunct professor at the George Washington University Graduate School of Political Management, tells Inside the Beltway.
While Trump s first six months in the White House have been marked by early stumbles, a healthy dose of palace intrigue and low approval numbers, history says Trump is in fact the odds-on favorite to win re-election in 2020, should he choose to run.
Why?
Because presidential incumbency has its privileges.
Since 1900, 20 presidents have sought re-election.
Of those, 15 won and five lost that is, if you include Gerald Ford, who was never elected in the first place.
Adds Mr. O Connell, So how does President Trump avoid becoming the sixth president to be fired by the people in the last 120 years?
Barring some unforeseen calamity or Dwayne The Rock Johnson becoming the Democratic presidential nominee, the fate of Trump s presidency will live and die with the state of the economy in the fall of 2020.
To ensure that the electoral winds are favorable to Trump, his administration must deliver results by passing tax reform before the 2018 midterms, showing significant progress on other key campaign promises: securing America s borders, infrastructure, trade, conservative judicial appointees.
He must also continue to instill in working-class voters in both the Rust Belt (Ohio, Pennsylvania, Iowa, Michigan, Wisconsin) and Sun Belt (Florida, North Carolina, Arizona) battleground states the belief that he is tirelessly fighting for them.
If Trump does that, voters will forgive his impetuous ways and rehire him, the professor concludes.For entire story: Washington Times