Meryl Streep is an accomplished actress, philanthropist and humanitarian.
She s also standing up to Donald Trump, something she admits she didn t do enough of during the campaign.While accepting the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievement, the 3-time Academy Award winner, without mentioning him by name, took Trump to task for his bullish, childish and xenophobic behavior.Highlighting that many of the actors and actresses nominated this year were born in foreign countries and raised in foreign upbringings, Streep laid it out, saying:Who are we?
And What is Hollywood anyway?
It s just a bunch of people from other places.
I was born and raised and educated in the public schools of New Jersey.
Viola Davis was born in a share-croppers cabin in South Carolina Where are their birth certificates?
If you kick them all out, you ll have nothing to watch except for football and mixed martial arts, which are not the arts.Streep then turned her attention to what she called the most stunning performance she saw this year, one that she said:[It] sank its hooks in my heart.
Not because it was good.
There was nothing good about it.
But it was effective, and it did its job.
It made its intended audience laugh and show their teeth.
It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter- someone he outranked in privilege, power, and the capacity to fight back.
It kind of broke my heart.We all know what she s talking about.
It s a moment that conservatives vehemently deny.
But the whole world saw it.
It was intentional, it was hurtful, and it somehow didn t cost him the nomination then and there.
But Streep, like so many, remembered, and called him out.
She like so many is using her platform to speak out against this immoral, self-righteous demagogue.And without missing a beat, Steep warned:Disrespect invites disrespect.
Violence incites violence.
When the powerful use their platform to bully, we all lose.Again, without saying his name, Meryl Streep initiated a brutal, honest, and provocative takedown of the man slated to become President in less than two weeks.Calling on the press to be vigilant in their fight against Trump, Streep asked her fellow (and wealthy) actors and actresses to stand behind them, saying We re going to need them, and they ll need us to safeguard the truth.
Meryl Streep is, as always, a class act.
And we thank her for using her platform for good.Featured image Handout/Getty Images