An unidentified photographer is reported to have fallen backwards off a press riser at Donald Trump s rally in Bethpage, New York.About 8,000 people were reported to be in attendance at the rally, which was held at Grumman Studios.
Video published by The New Civil Rights Movement shows that about 20 minutes into his speech, Trump began referring to the media as dirty and awful people.
As he did so, the audience began booing and jeering at members of the media who were packed together or press risers, calling the losers.
NBC National News correspondent Peter Alexander tweeted:Image credit: screen capture Peter Alexander on TwitterAssociated Press reporter Jonathan Lemire also reported on Trump s attack on the media, quoting the candidate on Twitter:Image credit: screen capture Jonathon Lamire on TwitterReuters reporter Emily Flitter also posted about the incident.Image credit: screen capture Emily Flitter via TwitterDavid Badash of The New Civil Rights Movement reports that shortly after this disturbing scene took place, the unidentified reporter fell backward from the press riser.Multiple news outlets report that the crowd broke out into cheers when the person fell.Screen capture Emily Flitter via TwitterChris Dignam attributed the reporters fall to the fact that the press risers were overcrowded.Image credit: screen capture via Chris Dignam on TwitterThis isn t the first time that Donald Trump has endangered members of the press during one of his rallies.
He often targets the media during his rants, inciting his followers to turn on the press.
At other rallies, he s called the media dishonest and scum.
He has also forced reporters to remain inside fenced-off pens.
At a December 21 rally in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Trump told his audience I would never kill [journalists] but I do hate them.
His hatred vehement hatred toward the press is not just ugly and wrong, it s dangerous to every reporter, journalist and photographer in America.
The idea that Trump is creating a nationwide mob of potentially violent, media-hating followers is chilling.In August of last year, Allison Parker, a reporter with Virginia s WDBJ-TV was shot and killed on live TV.
The man who shot her was a former coworker who had mental health issues.
We can only guess how many of Trump s followers have similar mental health issues.Judging by the reaction of the crowd when the reporter fell from the risers, I d say a lot.Credit: Andrew Renneisen / Stringer Getty Images News