Donald Trump s slogan, Make America Great Again, has his fans cheering, while others raise their eyebrows and wonder just what he means by that.
Perhaps one group of people has more questions about that than anyone else Native Americans.
In fact, one Navajo woman is taking Trump and his slogan head on, with a slogan of her own.Vanessa Bowen designed hats that are similar Trump s, but they bear the slogan, Make America Native Again.
Take a look:Image via screen capture from ABC News videoHow fitting is that, considering Native Americans are called native for a reason that seems to escape Trump (and conservatives in general), and Trump wants to take us back to the bad ol days of white supremacy because he s a disgusting bigot?
She said: When Donald Trump says, Make America Great Again, what time period is he talking about?
A lot of people overlook that America s history has been built upon injustice against other racial groups, including Native American people.
She makes a very good point.
The reason we don t have things like White History Month or Straight Pride Month is because this country was built for straight, white people in general, and straight, white men in specific; men like, oh, say, Donald the Trump.
It was also built on the genocide of Native Americans, which is a fact of history that conservatives would erase from every one of our history books if they could, so they could cling to their delusion that America is more awesome than the rest of the planet.Enter Bowen s hats.
His Royal Racist has demonstrated his racism against Native Americans by calling Elizabeth Warren Pocahontas repeatedly.
One of his surrogates made fun of Warren s Native American heritage by doing a stereotypical war whoop during a rally.
To Trump, recognizing Native Americans and actually respecting them amounts to more of the political correctness that he thinks is destroying our country.Bowen believes that making America great again means learning about Native Americans and respecting their culture, and not erasing them from history.
Bowen also said: It means going back to learning sustainability and learning to live in harmony with the environment.
It means going back to a matriarchal society in which we value and respect our women.
It means going back to a sense of unity and community in which we nurture and care for each other rather than tear apart and divide each other.
These are all things we need to do in order to ensure mankind s continued survival, if nothing else.
His Royal Idiocy does not like these things, and does not see what the point of any of it is.
He wants to keep things exactly the way they are while he s busy trying to make us great again.
Everything he wants to do to Make America Great Again is an attack on Native American values, Bowen says.So really, what does Trump mean with that garbage of a slogan of his?
He very likely means the 1950s and 60s, which were white men s most prosperous decades, but they weren t exactly prosperous for anybody else.
Those white glasses of his, which filter out everything but whiteness, must be nice.Bowen s hats are hitting a lot of people the right way, and she s selling them for $30 apiece, here.
She s thinking of donating the money she makes off of these hats to Native American charities.Featured image via screen capture from ABC News video