Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) is more than just a radical activist, he s also a devout Muslim U.S. Rep. Keith Ellison abruptly left Washington earlier this month to fly back to Minneapolis and emerged at the center of explosive confrontations between black activists and police outside the Fourth Precinct station.In those first, uncertain days after a fatal police shooting of an unarmed black man in north Minneapolis, Ellison displayed credibility among different factions of the black community, and also had stature in the mayor s office and could help broker a sit-down meeting between Gov.
Mark Dayton and the family of the shooting victim, Jamar Clark.The unrest has elevated Ellison s profile, but it has also become his biggest test yet as a political leader trying to negotiate a truce in the latest flare-up of long-running tensions between police and the local black community.
People have successfully gotten the attention of political leadership, Ellison said from the protest site, less than a mile from his home.
We just have to make sure we do not waste it, and we make sure we gather it up and turn it into some tangible benefits for the people here.
Striking a tone that was conciliatory but also challenging, he added: There s absolutely no doubt that we have to get established, responsive government.
The unrest hit uncomfortably close to home for the fifth-term Democrat just a few days after the shooting.
During a particularly fraught night, his son, Jeremiah, was photographed with his hands up as police in riot gear pointed a gun toward him and other protesters.
Ellison later shared the photo on his Twitter account, calling it agonizing.
It was retweeted nearly 4,000 times.Behind the scenes, Ellison, 52, has been navigating several constituencies, including the governor s office, city officials, progressive allies and black activists who themselves are split over how to best accomplish their goals.
Some black community members say they hope the shooting will finally get the attention of state leaders, whom they say have allowed Minnesota s racial disparities to fester for decades.Those connected to Ellison say his latest role is one that he has honed after years of deep involvement in divisive racial issues around Minneapolis.
They say he radiates a cool confidence in person, and is enormously skilled at connecting with people in the midst of conflicts.
People who don t know him, especially from outside of Minneapolis, see a firebrand out in the streets, playing that one really important role he plays, rallying the community to be empowered, former Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak said.
The other role that most people don t see, that I have the benefit of, is a very savvy adviser who would never moderate his views but would bring a sophisticated understanding of how government worked.
For entire story: Star TribuneSo who exactly is Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and why do Muslim lawmakers like hime and Andre Carson (D-IN) in America matter?Rep.
Keith Ellison (D-MN) is perhaps the most well known Muslim in the U.S. Congress but he s not the only one.
The other is Rep. Andre Carson (D-IN).
While speaking at the ICNA-MAS convention, Carson told those in attendance that America s schools should be modeled after madrassas (Islamic schools).Incidentally, the ICNA (Islamic Circle of North America) was identified in a 1991 Muslim Brotherhood document as one of 29 like minded organizations.
The goal of these organizations?
According to the document itself: their work in America is a kind of grand Jihad in eliminating and destroying the Western civilization from within and sabotaging its miserable house by their hands so that God s religion [Islam] is made victorious over all other religions.
MAS (Muslim American Society) was formed in 1992, one year after the date of the document, which might explain why they weren t one of the 29.
Bolstering that case further is the fact that MAS has identified two groups who are on the list of the notorious 29 Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) and Muslim Students Association (MSA) as being like-minded.So, as DHS is more concerned with rightwing extremism than it is with Jihad, a sitting U.S.
Congressman is a featured speaker at a convention filled with those who want to destroy Western civilization (America) from within.
Watch Muslim Congressman Andre Carson bemoan the lack of Muslims in lawmaking roles.
He also expresses his concern about anti-Sharia legislation being passed in many states:Via: Shoebat