Hillary Clinton has said a lot of things that stick deep in the craw of honest, hardworking Americans before but this time she may have actually gone too far.
In a seemingly innocent remark about how staying home and resting has brought her closer to the American people.Apparently laying in bed in one of many mansions with a staff to take care of her every need, and absolutely no worry of how she is going to pay her rent next month equals what it is like for a normal citizen to be suffering from illness in this day and age.
I certainly feel lucky when I am under the weather, I can afford to take a few days off.
Millions of Americans can t. They either go to work sick or they lose a paycheck.
They toss back some Tylenols, chug some orange juice and hope the cough or the virus goes away on its own.
I have met so many people living on a razor s edge, one illness away from losing their job, one paycheck away from losing their job.
That goes against everything we stand for as Americans, because some things should not come down to luck.
So while she was being pampered and waited on hand and foot we are supposed to believe that she was honestly contemplating that her situation in any way matched that of any hard working American going through being sick?
All I heard was her throwing her wealth and status back into our faces.Maybe she realized that her diatribe wasn t working so she decided to quickly change focus and throw her own campaign staff under the but to deflect.
You know, my campaign has said they could have been faster and I agree with that.
I certainly expect them to be as focused and quick as possible, but I have to say from my perspective, I thought I was going to be fine and I thought that there wasn t really any reason to make a big fuss about it.
So I should have taken time off earlier.
I didn t, now I have, and I m back on the campaign trail.
Hillary also dodged a question about whether she ever bothered to tell her running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine, that she was sick.Clinton responded by saying that her senior staff knew, and the information was provided to a number of people, but she did not say whether Kaine was one of those people.
When a second reporter asked about why Kaine was not informed, and whether that has hurt their partnership, Clinton said she was not going to go into our personal conversations.
Will this woman ever answer anything with a straight answer?
Probably not, but we can all continue to be amused that she actually thinks any of us believe what she says.Keep powering through, Hillary.H/T [ Info Wars ]