Fox News host Bill O Reilly and Fox Business host Lou Dobbs made a pathetically lame attempt to defend Donald Trump s hesitance to release his tax returns.
In doing so, they made a disgraceful comparison between the presumptive Republican nominee and Jesus Christ.Succeeding in making himself look even more suspicious, Trump has recently broken his previous promise to release his tax returns before election day.
Announcing the news on Wednesday, Trump said his sorry excuse was that a federal audit needed to be completed before he could release them which is an absolute lie that O Reilly and Dobbs failed to call him out on.On O Reilly s show, Dobbs came to the business mogul s defense: Why should he turn over his tax returns when he s being audited?
[H]e is facing a hostile national media that no matter how pristine those returns, it s going to find something to pick at and blow up.
And then use it as some shiny object to distract from the issue.
O Reilly pointed out that releasing those documents would be a good move on Trump s part, considering that his honesty was questioned by partisans.
It would not only be a good idea it would be standard practice.
Trump is now the first nominee not to disclose his tax returns since 1976.
Even former President Richard Nixon, who was under audit, didn t hesitate to release his tax returns a fact that makes Trump s secrecy look more shady than ever.Dobbs pushed logic aside and said, After the first billion, I lose interest.
He also failed to answer O Reilly when he asked if there was anything that Dobbs hadn t liked about Trump s campaign.
Dobbs refused to give him a straight answer, because you d be just like the rest of those guys in the national media, you just focus on it.
O Reilly pushed back and said, I m asking you as an analyst.
You are not willing to say one thing.
When Dobbs continued to dance around the question, O Reilly yelled: If he is Jesus, how can you analyze him?
Dobbs said, How can I analyze him?
Because I have a superior mind that competes at least fairly favorably with your own.
O Reilly giggled and replied with something truly idiotic: Okay.
Let s just recap.
According to Dobbs, Donald Trump is Jesus.
And Jesus never put out his tax returns!
Ever!
Dobbs completely threw all intelligence out the window when he said, That s a line that I can actually agree with.
You can watch the puzzling clip below:Featured image via Jim McIsaac / Getty Images