Before we get too far into this story, it needs to be pointed out that the 18 year old teen who was just sentenced by a judge for having a homemade Nazi tattoo, was only 15 years old at the time, and has since admitted he made a mistake.
The Afghan rapefugee on the other hand, was 17 years old when he brutally raped a 72 year old woman.
So basically, we re comparing a 15 year old who was utilizing his freedom of expression (whether we agree with him or not is irrelevant) with a violent 17 year old rapist.An 18-year-old Afghan refugee was sentenced to 20 months in prison for the anal rape of a 72-year-old woman.
Now the Austrian justice system has once again shown us its quality.
A 20-year-old, who was 15 at the time, the offence was committed, has just been sentenced to 19 months in prison for giving a home-made swastika tattoo.Three young people have been found guilty of engaging in Nazi activities after they drew Nazi tattoos and posted photos of them online.A 20-year-old, who was found to have a German war flag used by the Nazis and portraits of Nazi Socialists in his room, was sentenced by a youth court in Salzburg to 19 months in prison, three months unconditional.He and a 19-year-old accomplice were found guilty of using a pin and eyeliner to tattoo a hand-sized swastika onto someone s chest and then posting the photos online.In addition to the tattooing, the 20-year-old was also accused of shouting Nazi slogans out of his window and singing the song Polaken-Tango by the banned neo-Nazi rock group Landser in front of his brother and his brother s girlfriend.He was arrested after his brother called the police, who found him in his room wrapped in the war flag and surrounded by photos of prominent Nazis.He told the court that he regretted his actions, which took place in August 2011 when he was 15-years-old, and that he had now changed.Pleading guilty, he said: I now know that this is nonsense.
He was charged separately for his Facebook account, where he also posted pictures of himself making Nazi salutes, which he told judge Bettina Maxones-Kurkowski he had done to show others that he belongs here .
Via: The LocalOn Wednesday at the State Court in Vienna s Neustadt an 18-year-old Afghan was sentenced to 20 months in prison without parole for rape.
He also has to pay 5000 euros compensation to the 72-year-old woman, who has been very marked by the attack.The incident on 1 September last year created a sensation: the penioner was walking her old dog in the Schwechat meadow near Traiskirchen in Lower Austria, when she encountered two young asylum seekers swimming in the river.
According to an acquaintance of the victim in the witness stand, the boys were also very nice at first, they even helped the woman over an embankment.
But then one them fell upon her from behind.
However, DNA traces confirmed that the pensioner was anally raped.
The then 17-year-old Afghan was quickly caught.
He does not dispute the crime, but says he was drunk.
His friend says he wasn t aware of the rape.Her daughter Sylvia a committed refugee helper believes and hopes that her mother was unconscious during the crime.
What does Christine F. feel for her tormentor?
Despite all of the torment, she even feels some sympathy.