One thing has been made abundantly clear: Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump has no idea what he is talking about when it comes to foreign policy and diplomatic leadership.
And whoever is in his ear and/or writing his speeches clearly doesn t either.After Trump made his foreign policy speech on Wednesday, not only did America react, but so did the rest of the world, with a number of foreign dignitaries speaking up and out against the real estate mogul s ineptitude.Germany s foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said: I can only hope that the election campaign in the USA does not lack the perception of reality The world s security architecture has changed and it is no longer based on two pillars alone.
It cannot be conducted unilaterally.
No American president can get round this change in the international security architecture .
America first is actually no answer to that.
Former Swedish prime minister Carl Bildt believes Trump s speech is abandoning both democratic allies and democratic values.
Also adding, Trump had not a word against Russian aggression in Ukraine, but plenty against past U.S. support for democracy in Egypt.
Former South Korean Vice Foreign Minister Kim Sung-han seems outright terrified viewing Trump as the first isolationist to be U.S. presidential candidate, while in the post-war era all the U.S. presidents have been to varying degrees internationalists.
Adding: Saying the U.S. will no longer engage in anything that is a burden in terms of its relationships with allies, it would be almost like abandoning those alliances.
It will inevitably give rise to anti-American sentiment worldwide.
Then there s the U.S. and Americas Programme at Britain s Chatham House think tank s Xenia Wickett, who said Trump s rhetoric, it suggests Trump would make America s allies less secure rather than more.
He talked about allies being confident but all of his rhetoric suggested that America should be unpredictable and that America s allies needed to stand up for themselves.
This has been the sentiment internationally for quite some time now from every corner of the globe.
A Trump presidency would be bad news for everyone, not just in the United States, but worldwide.
He simply has no idea what he s doing.
If he were to become president, the damage made from his incompetence and inexperience in regards to foreign policy and international diplomacy could be so severe it could damage ties for decades to come.
We cannot allow this to happen.Trump talks a good game to his imbecilic group of followers because, quite honestly, they don t know any better, and sounding big, tough and filled with nationalistic isolationist pride sounds good to them.
Mostly because most of them don t even know the world beyond their front porch.America is strong when is stands together with its allies.
Isolating ourselves is not only dangerous, but stupid.
Saying our military is going to be the strongest ever in the world isn t only dangerous, but stupid.
Making false claims about our international allies isn t only dangerous, but stupid.
And stupid is as stupid does and stupid votes Trump.We must make sure we do all we can to make sure Donald J. Trump doesn t get anywhere near the Oval Office no matter who, vote blue.
Not only for yourself and the nation, but the world.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images