Just like Donald Trump, White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer can t handle being satirized on Saturday Night Live.Melissa McCarthy delivered a devastatingly brilliant performance as Spicer, who has embarrassed himself himself repeatedly during press briefings by attacking the media for accurately covering Trump and his administration.Most infamously, Spicer was sent out to lecture and shame the press the day after the inauguration about the accurate assessment of Trump s crowd size on inauguration day.
Spicer claimed that the crowd at Trump s ceremony was the largest in history and people around the world laughed because all the evidence shows that Trump s crowd size was clearly one of the smallest.Spicer has also feuded with CNN during the briefings.McCarthy did a fantastic job portraying Spicer during a press briefing.Here s the video via YouTube.Well, Spicer was at the Super Bowl in Houston on Sunday and he was asked about the skit.And let s just say that Spicer is a snowflake who thinks Saturday Night Live is being mean.
According to Extra,Explaining that he d first heard about the sketch while leaving church Sunday morning, Spicer said his texts had been blowing up so much he thought there must be a national emergency.Spicer told Extra exclusively he felt the impression was a little exaggerated.
His advice was that McCarthy needs to slow down on the gum chewing; way too many pieces in there.
Though he thought it was a really funny show, he felt that McCarthy could dial back a bit.Last night, Alec Baldwin was back as President Trump as well.
As for what he thought of Alec s portrayal of the President, Spicer had the same feelings as the Leader of the Free World, calling it mean.
Spicer said, Alec has gone from funny to mean, and that s unfortunate.
SNL used to be really funny.
There s a streak of meanness now that they ve crossed over to mean.
Seriously, Trump and his team need to grow a thicker skin if they hope to make it through the next four years without ending up with high blood pressure.Spicer apparently doesn t realize that a little exaggeration mixed with truth is what makes great satire work.
As for his claim that Saturday Night Live is mean, I don t remember Spicer ever complaining about SNL making fun of President Obama.
In fact, I don t recall him ever complaining about the many truly awful things Republicans said about President Obama over the last eight years in real life.Saturday Night Live is a comedy show.
If Trump and Spicer can t handle being mocked, they should both resign because if they can t deal with comedians how are they going to handle it when world leaders criticize them?
Judging by their reaction to SNL, not very well.Featured image via screenshot