As Donald Trump continues to issue executive orders as if he is a king, Jon Stewart showed up on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert to mock him.Stewart has been humiliating Trump for years so this was just like riding a bike.
Once you do it, you never forget how to do it.
And Stewart absolutely nailed Trump on Tuesday night.As Colbert spoke about Trump s unconstitutional executive orders, Stewart interrupted and surprised a gleeful crowd in the process.Stewart sat down and told Colbert that he knows what Trump s next executive orders will be and proceeded to act like Trump while reading them off.
I hereby direct that to secure our border, China shall immediately and without hesitation send us their wall.
Done.
Boom!
Stewart began.It makes sense, too, since Trump has repeatedly antagonized China over the last few months to the point where a confrontation could occur between China and the United States in the near future if Trump continues to to try to bully them.Stewart then declared that America has a new national language.
The new official language of the United States is bullshit, he said.
I, Donald J. Trump, have instructed my staff to speak only in bullshit.
Stewart went on to declare that the staff must only speak bullshit at work and at home.
None of those pesky facts are acceptable at any time.Then Stewart revealed the third executive order Trump will sign.
I Donald J. Trump am exhausting.
It has been eleven days, Stephen.
Eleven f*cking days.
Eleven!
The presidency is supposed to age the president, not the public.
The reason that I, Donald J. Trump, am exhausting is that every instinct and fiber of my pathological self regard calls me to abuse of power.Stewart then mocked Trump s request to have tanks at his parade and his whining because he isn t adored by the whole nation.Stewart compared Trump to Emperor Palpatine from Star Wars and said that the American people are going to have a hell of a fight trying to prevent him from destroying democracy.
We have never faced this before, Stewart concluded.
Purposeful, vindictive chaos.
But Stewart urged Americans to keep fighting because if America can somehow survive through the next four years and defeat Trump in 2020, we can truly make America great again.Here s the video via VidMe.It sure would be nice to have Jon Stewart on our televisions every day to bring laughter to our lives as Trump continues to cause national and worldwide chaos.Featured image via screenshot