After being assaulted at a Donald Trump rally, allegedly by the candidates own campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, Breitbart reporter Michelle Fields isn t about to take the abuse lying down.
In fact, amidst even Trump himself claiming Fields made the story up, she s filed charges against Lewandowski with the Jupiter, Florida police department where the incident took place.According to CNN:Police in Jupiter said they were looking into misdemeanor battery allegations.
The police report, obtained by CNNMoney, identifies the complainant as Fields, but does not name a suspect.
As for any suspect, that information is being investigated at this time, Officer Adam Brown said.The police said the incident occurred at 115 Eagle Tree Terrace (Trump National) on March 8, 2016.
Fields simply wanted to ask Trump a question.
However, seeing as the candidate likes to be able to control all aspects of media, including, but not limited to, throwing them in heavily secured pens at his events, Fields was grabbed very forcefully, even posting a picture of her bruised arm on social media.I guess these just magically appeared on me @CLewandowski_ @realDonaldTrump.
So weird.
pic.twitter.com/oD8c4D7tw3 Michelle Fields (@MichelleFields) March 10, 2016The campaign, of course, is denying any wrongdoing ever occurred with campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks saying: The accusation, which has only been made in the media and never addressed directly with the campaign, is entirely false.
With Trump even saying during the latest GOP debate: Perhaps she made the story up.
I think that s what happened.
However, according to CNN: Washington Post reporter Ben Terris says he witnessed the incident and identified Lewandowski as the person who grabbed her.
The fact that this altercation happened at all is made far worse by the fact that not only is the campaign unwilling to apologize, they refuse to acknowledge it ever happened, insinuating Fields is a liar.Lewandowski, the man who allegedly assaulted her took the abuse even further by attacking Fields online by basically calling her a liar and/or that she was asking for it.Daily Caller reporter assaulted by NYPD during Occupy protests professional reporting or attention seeking?
https://t.co/FqOQQMvNcy Corey Lewandowski (@CLewandowski_) March 10, 2016Michelle Fields is an attention seeker who once claimed Allen West groped her but later went silent.
https://t.co/J86Ej42eYx Corey Lewandowski (@CLewandowski_) March 10, 2016We're Calling Bullshit On Michelle Fields GotNews https://t.co/VKpMaSLnmm Corey Lewandowski (@CLewandowski_) March 10, 2016Lewandowski and the entirety of the Trump campaign are relentlessly abusive both online and in person, with Trump even calling for violence against protesters regularly.Good on Fields for filing charges.
Hopefully this will be the first of many charges filed against an abusive campaign.
The violence needs to stop and it needs to stop now.
This permissiveness will only lead to more abuse if not something worse.
Much worse.
Enough is enough.Featured image: YouTube