Disney s just doing their part to advance a radical leftist agenda by punishing conservatives and anyone who dares to challenge their views ESPN has become the latest corporate entity jump on the pig-pile on Donald Trump.Following moves by Macy s, NBCUniversal, and NASCAR to distance themselves from the presidential candidate, ESPN has decided to move an annual golf tournament honoring late North Carolina State basketball coach Jim Valvano from the Trump National Golf Club.
We decided it was appropriate to change the venue, and are grateful for the opportunity to stage the event at Pelican Hill on short notice, the network announced in a statement.
This charity outing benefits The V Foundation s Stuart Scott Memorial Cancer Research Fund, providing resources for important cancer research for minority populations, including Hispanics and African Americans.
Our decision reflects our deep feelings for our former colleague and support for inclusion of all sports fans.
Diversity and inclusion are core values at ESPN and our decision also supports that commitment.
Corporations seeking to limit speech have tangled with the businessman-turned-politician since his remarks critical of illegal immigration that came during his presidential announcement last month.
When Mexico sends its people, they re not sending their best, Trump maintained on June 16.
They re sending people that have lots of problems, and they re bringing those problems with us.
They re bringing drugs.
They re bringing crime.
They re rapists.
Via: Breitbart NewsDisney s ESPN is the top cable network in viewers, advertising and affiliate revenue, according to data from Nielsen and SNL Kagan.
The all-sports network ended 2014 by ousting Comcast s USA Network from the No.
1 spot for the first time in recent memory, thanks to a stream of negative news out of the NFL that stimulated viewing along with an unquenchable interest in World Cup soccer.
The flagship network is poised to see its affiliate fees per subscriber, per month, rocket from $6.04 last year to $6.55 in 2015 and as much as $7.21 in 2016, according to SNL Kagan estimates.
ESPN s five networks will net $8.80 by the end of 2016, according to estimates.
Meanwhile, advertising revenue at the sports networks is poised to balloon to $2.3 billion next year.
Via: NY Post