Donald Trump tweeted Sunday morning about his visit with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
While most were his standard complaining about the media and trying to bolster his controversial meeting with the Russian strongman, one, in particular, stood out.
According to Trump, he s ready to partner, yes, partner, in cyber security.
No, that s not a joke.I strongly pressed President Putin twice about Russian meddling in our election.
He vehemently denied it.
I ve already given my opinion .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017Um, sure.
We negotiated a ceasefire in parts of Syria which will save lives.
Now it is time to move forward in working constructively with Russia!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017The most notable tweet, though, was this one, which essentially said he s giving the fox the key to the hen house:Putin & I discussed forming an impenetrable Cyber Security unit so that election hacking, & many other negative things, will be guarded.. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017And then more deflection: and safe.
Questions were asked about why the CIA & FBI had to ask the DNC 13 times for their SERVER, and were rejected, still don t .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017 have it.
Fake News said 17 intel agencies when actually 4 (had to apologize).
Why did Obama do NOTHING when he had info before election?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 9, 2017The irony of partnering with Putin on securing the electoral system he s accused of hacking hasn t even escaped some Republicans.
Sen. Marco Rubio is raising alarms:While reality & pragmatism requires that we engage Vladimir Putin, he will never be a trusted ally or a reliable constructive partner.
1/3 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 9, 2017Partnering with Putin on a Cyber Security Unit is akin to partnering with Assad on a Chemical Weapons Unit .
2/3 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 9, 2017We have no quarrel with Russia or the Russian people.
Problem is with Putin & his oppression, war crimes & interference in our elections 1/3 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 9, 2017GOP Rep. Mike Gallagher agrees:Coordinating w/ Russia also risks glossing over serious US concerns re: Russian behavior, such as Ukraine invasion & cyber aggression.
6/10 Rep. Mike Gallagher (@RepGallagher) July 9, 2017John McCain handled with snark:During an interview on CBS s Face The Nation, McCain was asked about President Trump s earlier tweet in which the president said he talked with Putin during their meeting about creating an impenetrable Cyber Security unit to guard against election hacking.
I m sure that Vladimir Putin could be of enormous assistance in that effort since he is doing the hacking, McCain said, laughing.It is somewhat comforting to know that elections are run by states, not the federal government and they are VERY reluctant to hand over that power.
That doesn t mean, though, that Trump isn t going to do everything in his power to assist Putin in taking over our government and our internet.Featured image via Getty Images.