Donald Trump s presidency is still one of the most baffling train wrecks Americans have seen in a long time.
If his racist, misogynist rhetoric and pathological lying weren t enough to raise concerns about, his Twitter activity alone should have prevented people from voting for him and for those that had hope for him, he s been busy proving them wrong every single day since he got in the White House.He hasn t even lasted a month in his new role yet, and already people are scrambling to find ways to get rid of him before he destroys the country.
With his massive amounts of inhumane executive orders and reckless handling of world affairs, Trump s mental competency is under scrutiny and for good reason.On Saturday, Trump launched into one of his insane Twitter fits, and this time he was more incoherent than ever.
He not only whined about FAKE NEWS and the New York Times, but he attacked the so-called judge who dared to block his disgusting Muslim ban.
Oh, and let s not forget about the fact that Trump also shared a fake article about Kuwait, forcing the country to respond and the situation to erupt in chaos before the situation was corrected.Given the emotional roller coaster that the Trump presidency has already become in such a short amount of time, many people are calling for him to have a psychological review and one of those people is Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA), who took a look at Trump s Twitter tantrum and asked the question we ve all been wanting to know.
Here it is: Should he get a mental health exam?
Hell YES.
A few hours later, Lieu fired back at Trump again for posting yet another weird, narcissistic tweet: his campaign slogan, Make America Great Again.
It would be in America s best interest if Trump were professionally evaluated.
Lieu is not the only politician calling for a psychological review, either.
Earlier this week, top Democrat Nancy Pelosi spoke out in support of having mental evaluations for presidents which we all know would have destroyed every chance Trump had.Like him or hate him, Trump is not well and being in his role is not only dangerous for him, but for the rest of the world.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images