The name Donald Trump will get women $45 to buy birth control at least that s the promotion being offered by a new startup app called Nurx, which prescribes and provides birth control with or without a doctor and with or without insurance.If you mention the name Donald Trump, you ll receive $45 toward birth control.
This promotion is in response to Trump s promises to repeal Obamacare, which helps provide free birth control to millions of women.
Unfortunately, Nurx only operates in California, New York, Washington state and Washington, D.C., so if you live outside those areas, you won t be able to participate.
Donald Trump has said repeatedly that he wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and that would mean that millions of women would lose access to free birth control, Hans Gangeskar, CEO and cofounder of Nurx, said in a statement.
This motivated us to figure out a way to help make contraception even more accessible.
Source: Business InsiderWhile no one knows for sure what Trump will do with Obamacare, his cabinet picks and his vice presidential pick don t bode well for women s health.
Vice President Elect Mike Pence is virulently anti-woman.
This is what Pence had to say about Trump in October: The Trump-Pence administration will be dedicated to preserving the liberties of our people, including the freedom of religion that s enshrined in our Bill of Rights.
Trump s vice presidential nominee said when asked if their administration would issue a regulation to eliminate Obamacare s contraceptive mandate, or at least provide a religious exemption for all ministries and businesses.We have a long tradition of accommodating religious beliefs in this country, the governor adds.
Our administration is going to err on the side of freedom, we re going to err on the side of protecting our liberties of our people.
Source: Christian PostThe evangelical to English translation of that is that his right to discriminate is more important than a woman s liberty.More importantly, and simply because the Vice President doesn t create laws, Congress is now majority Christian conservative.
While they may not overturn Obamacare completely, they will continue to demonize Planned Parenthood and anyone who specializes in women s health.
They will also, I m sure, demonize women who are sexually active.
At least companies like Nurx are being proactive.
Look for them to be next on Republicans radar.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images