The Harvard study below will blow your mind!
If you had any doubt Trump is being sabotaged by the main stream media and Washington old guards, look no further Coverage of President Trump is 93% negative!
This is over the top!
Our media and politicians are doing everything they can to destroy Trump How negative was press coverage of President Trump s first 100 days in office?
Far more than that of Barack Obama, George W. Bush, or Bill Clinton, according to a new report from the Harvard Kennedy School s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy.The Harvard scholars analyzed the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post and the main newscasts (not talk shows) of CBS, CNN, Fox and NBC during Trump s initial time in office.
They found, to no one s surprise, that Trump absolutely dominated news coverage in the first 100 days.
And then they found that news coverage was solidly negative 80 percent negative among those outlets studied, versus 20 percent positive.The numbers for previous presidents: Barack Obama, 41 percent negative, 59 percent positive; George W. Bush, 57 percent negative, 43 percent positive; and Bill Clinton, 60 percent negative, 40 percent positive.Accusations of bias aside, it s simply a fact that a number of negative things happened in Trump s opening 100 days.
The Russia investigation, for example, was a source of endless criticism from Democrats and other Trump opponents.
The travel ban executive order led to intense argument and losses for the administration in the courts.
The healthcare debacle created more negative coverage because it was a major screwup and a setback for both Trump and House Republicans.That said, the coverage of some news organizations was so negative, according to the Harvard study, that it seems hard to argue that the coverage was anywhere near a neutral presentation of facts.
Assessing the tone of news coverage, the Harvard researchers found that CNN s Trump coverage was 93 percent negative, and seven percent positive.
The researchers found the same numbers for NBC.Obama and Hillary s hero had this to say about taking down an enemy:Obama Campaign Manager and Senior Adviser had this to say about Trump last June: IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO SIMPLY BEAT TRUMP.
HE MUST BE DESTROYED THOROUGHLY.
HIS KIND MUST NOT RISE AGAIN.
Read more: WE