Life is hard.
We get it.
Every one of us has had a tough time for one reason or another.
However, Trump fans seem to want us to believe that the world is especially cruel to them just because they re Trump fans.
While they make a point about how stereotyping is bad, they made the choice to support a racist, sexist, narcissistic prick, even if they don t see themselves that way.That s literally what they re saying in this video, posted to the New York Post s website.
One woman says: I think that we are portrayed as the same things as Donald Trump: Racist we don t like people coming into this country who aren t the same race as us.
That s not the case at all.
And a man says: You always have to be fearful, like the Stasi is going to come and grab you because you re a Trump supporter.
Oh, well, gee, pardon us.
And really?
The Stasi?
Come on.
It s kind of hard not to see Trumpkins this way when many of his biggest policy positions are blatantly racist, and will harm pretty much everyone who isn t straight, white, and cisgender.While one man said, Please, sit down, let s have a rational conversation, the problem there is not Trump s supporters, per se.
It s Trump himself and his supporters by proxy.
Trump is not rational, so having a rational conversation about him is useless.
Yes, it s true that one can support a candidate without having to agree with every single position that candidate has.
However, when something is a huge part of what they stand for, it s almost impossible to separate the supporters from their candidate.Watch the video below:When you look at the people who attend Trump s rallies, it likewise gets more difficult not to lump them all in together as racist, hateful bigots.
So, to these particular supporters who don t want to be seen this way, how about you people start really pressing your candidate, and the Republican Party, a lot harder to get him to tone it down?Until you do, our hearts bleed pink carbonated peanut butter for a plight of your own choosing.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video