The Diversity Visa Lottery began with a leftist desire to for more diversity in America Senator Chuck Schumer owns this ridiculous program that allows 50,000 people from all over the globe to obtain a visa to come to the U.S.
The problem as with so many other well-meaning government programs is that it s full of fraud and is in addition to the thousands upon thousands of other refugees we already bring in every year!
The latest example of fraud in this program comes out of the Somali Muslim state of Minnesota Yes, Minnesota is overrun with Somali Muslims Four of those Muslims are going back to Somalia because of their fraud:Ahmed Mohamed Warsame aka Jama Solob Kayre, 54, a native of Somalia, using the fictitious identity of Jama Solob Kayre, applied for and received a beneficiary diversity visa as the fictitious spouse of Fosia Abdi Adan, the principal diversity visa immigrant of the fictitious family.
Warsame unlawfully obtained his visa as the spouse of a diversity visa immigrant from the U.S. Embassy in Sanaa, Yemen, under the DV Program on Jan. 10, 2001.
Warsame arrived and was admitted to the United States on May 30, 2001, on his diversity immigrant visa as a permanent resident.Throughout the diversity visa application process, Warsame fraudulently claimed that he was married to Adan and that he and Adan had three children together.
Such children included Mohamed Jama Solob, the fictitious identity used by Mustaf Abdi Adan, and Mobarak Jama Solob, the fictitious identity used by Faysal Jama Mire.
Adan and Warsame, who used the fictitious identity of Jama Solob Kayre, obtained a divorce in Minnesota for their fictitious marriage after Warsame was admitted as a permanent resident.
Warsame continued to fraudulently represent his previous fictitious marriage and fraudulently represent his fictitious parentage of Mohamed Jama Solob and Mobarak Jama Solob, throughout the naturalization process.
Warsame, using the fictitious name of Jama Solob Kayre, naturalized on Sept. 13, 2006.
During his naturalization, he changed his name to Ahmed Mohamed Warsame.
Warsame has been residing in St.
Cloud, MinnesotaTHE FUNNY THING IS WE RE SUPPOSED TO TRUST THESE PEOPLE TO TELL THE TRUTH?Attorney General Jeff Sessions said the country s current immigration system is easily abused by fraudsters and nefarious actors.
Chain migration, which gives priority for entrance to immigrants with family members, only multiplies the consequences of this abuse, Sessions said.SHUT THIS PROGRAM DOWN!