The so-called War on Drugs has has taken another enormous blow as a study shows that states that legalize marijuana have seen a 25% reduction in the number of deaths due to painkiller overdoses.
That s not some of the states but ALL of them: The difference is quite striking, said study co-author Colleen Barry, a health policy researcher at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore.
She notes that the trend became visible in every state a year after the pot was legalized.The study suggests that because patients that are experiencing chronic pain can substitute or suppliment marijuana for their pain pills, they are able to take smaller (or no) doses of the pills and are less likely to experience an overdose.This is even more significant than it seems (and it seems pretty significant).
Since the Great Recession destroyed thousands of white communities all over the country, there has been a surge in drug abuse by white people.
In fact, the death rate among white males has jumped dramatically, while it s decreased in every other demographic.
Much of this has been from addiction to pain killers and, later, heroin.The reasons for this are not hard to understand: When confronted with the same kind of crushing poverty and despair that has afflicted black communities for generations, white people turned to drugs the same exact way.
This, of course, means that we ll be forced to crack down on white drug users and send them to prison for decades.Just kidding!No, we won t be locking up millions of white people.
This is America, silly!
When white people are in trouble, we have to help them, not lock them up!What this means is that legalizing marijuana can and mostly likely will be seen as a partial solution to the opioid epidemic devastating white communities.
Big Pharma won t like this because fully legalized marijuana will annihilate their pain killer profits.
Normally, Big Pharma s profits are more important than human lives but when it s only WHITE lives on the line, you can be sure that something is going to be done about it.
Featured image via Getty