These are shocking revelations that have essentially taken place while America and our elected representatives slept.ALL Of A Sudden Before Obama there was virtually no outlandish presence of Islam in America.
Only 7 years later, here are some observations made by a 75 year old American:1.
All of a sudden, Islam is taught in schools.
Christianity and the bible are banned in schools and in our military.2.
All of a sudden we must allow prayer rugs everywhere and allow for Islamic prayer in schools, airports and businesses.3.
All of a sudden we must stop serving pork in prisons.4.
All of a sudden we are inundated with law suits by Muslims who are offended by American culture.5.
All of a sudden we must allow burkas to be worn everywhere even though you have no idea who or what is covered up under them.6.
All of a sudden Muslims are suing employers and refusing to do their jobs if they personally deem it conflicts with Sharia Law.7.
All of a sudden the Attorney General of the United States vows to prosecute anyone who engages in anti-Muslim speech .8.
All of a sudden, Jihadists who engage in terrorism and openly admit they acted in the name of Islam and ISIS, are emphatically declared they are NOT Islamic by our leaders and/or their actions are determined NOT to be terrorism, but other nebulous terms like workplace Violence.
9.
All of a sudden, it becomes policy that Secular Middle East dictators that were benign or friendly to the West, must be replaced by Islamists and the Muslim Brotherhood.10.
All of a sudden our troops are withdrawn from Iraq and the Middle East, giving rise to ISIS.11.
All of a sudden, America has reduced its nuclear stockpiles to 1950 levels, as Obama s stated goal of a nuke-free America by the time he leaves office continues uninterrupted.12.
All of a sudden, a deal with Iran must be made at any cost, with a pathway to nuclear weapons and HUNDREDS of BILLIONS of dollars handed over to fund their programs.13.
All of a sudden America APOLOGIZES to Muslim states and sponsors of terror worldwide for acts of aggression, war and sabotage THEY perpetrate against our soldiers.14.
All of a sudden, the American Navy is diminished to 1917 Pre-World War I levels of only 300 ships.
The Army is at pre-1940 levels.
The Air Force scraps 500 planes and planned to retire the use of the A-10 Thunderbolt close air support fighter.
A further draw down of another 40,000 military personnel is in progress.15.
All of a sudden half of our aircraft carriers are recalled for maintenance by Obama rendering the Atlantic unguarded, NONE are in the Middle East.16.
All of a sudden Obama has to empty Guantanamo Bay of captured Jihadists and let them loose in Jihad-friendly Islamic states.
He demands to close the facility.17.
All of a sudden America will negotiate with terrorists and trade FIVE Taliban commanders for a deserter and Jihad sympathizer.18.
All of a sudden there is no money for American poor, disabled veterans, jobless Americans, hungry Americans, or displaced Americans but there is endless money for Obama s Syrian Refugee Resettlement programs.19.
All of sudden there is an ammunition shortage in the USA.20.
All of a sudden, the most important thing for Obama to do after a mass shooting by two Jihadists, is disarm American Citizens.21.
All of a sudden, the President of the United States cannot attend the Christian funerals of a Supreme Court Justice and a former First Lady because of previous (seemingly unimportant) commitments.Finally And all of a sudden, I m sick to my stomach.
I m not sure the majority of Americans recognize the seriousness of the situation and how much progress has been made by Islam these last 7 years, a very brief time compared to a 75 year lifetime!This was sent to 100% FED UP!
by a fan of our Facebook page.