Trump is a terrible businessman and will be an even worse president.
And his latest Twitter rant is proof.In a string of tweets on Sunday morning, Donald Trump simultaneously promised to give businesses massive tax cuts and threatened to tax them if they leave the United States.The U.S. is going to substantialy reduce taxes and regulations on businesses, but any business that leaves our country for another country, Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016fires its employees, builds a new factory or plant in the other country, and then thinks it will sell its product back into the U.S. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016without retribution or consequence, is WRONG!
There will be a tax on our soon to be strong border of 35% for these companies Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016wanting to sell their product, cars, A.C. units etc., back across the border.
This tax will make leaving financially difficult, but .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016these companies are able to move between all 50 states, with no tax or tariff being charged.
Please be forewarned prior to making a very Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016expensive mistake!
THE UNITED STATES IS OPEN FOR BUSINESS Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016Here s the thing.
Trump literally just stated that he will substantially reduce taxes on businesses, which is basically the plan Kansas Republicans put in place and their state budget is now a disaster.
Trump also intends to do away with regulations, which basically gives business owners the ability to do whatever the hell they want, which will be especially dangerous if the regulations Trump is talking about are safety regulations, food quality, etc Big businesses will be especially happy about this because they already pay little in taxes anyway.But then Trump threatens to punish businesses with a 35 percent tax if they move operations overseas.This doesn t make a lot of sense and businesses are probably laughing their asses off right now.
Trump is already giving them a massive tax cut and less regulations, which means taxing them 35 percent isn t going to be much of a punishment at all.In fact, Trump s recent Carrier deal is the perfect example of how corporations will treat Trump s threats.
Despite claiming that he saved jobs, Trump s so-called deal with Carrier cost taxpayers $7 million.
Carrier gets that money and they STILL sent more jobs to Mexico than they kept in Indiana and then announced that they are closing another factory.
Basically, Carrier took the money and moved jobs overseas anyway, which is exactly what other businesses are going to do because Trump doesn t know what the hell he is doing.Donald Trump is the idiot big businesses have been waiting for.
Not only will corporations get to still move jobs overseas at a higher rate than ever before, they ll be able to fleece taxpayers for every cent they can get with Trump s willing assistance.
Then they can move operations overseas anyway and use taxpayer money to pay Trump s 35 percent tax penalty.In other words, American workers and taxpayers better get ready because they are about to be screwed while CEOs laugh all the way to their offshore bank.Featured Image: Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images