Donald Trump s visit to Israel had a stop at Yad Vashem, Israel s Holocaust remembrance and memorial museum.
As is customary for foreign dignitaries, Trump was asked to sign the visitor s log and share some of his thoughts about his experience and emotions while there.
And as is customary for Trump, he took it as an opportunity to pen a painfully simplistic note which missed the whole point of the visit.How did Trump feel after a visit to one of the most somber places in the world, meant to mark an atrocity that led to the deaths of 6 millions European Jews?
He was happy he got to hang out with his friends.Our president couldn t muster anything more sophisticated than a note scribbled in your 6th grade yearbook by a classmate you barely knew.And lest Trump s supporters think it s normal to keep it short and (extremely) simple, former President Barack Obama wrote in the same visitor s log years ago he wrote out a passionate mediation on what the visit meant to him.
It spanned a page.One striking thing about the comparison: Obama devotes his closing lines to the victims of the Holocaust, both living and dead.
Trump mentions his friends, but doesn t spare a single word for the victims.
It s a telling oversight for an administration that already dabbled in the erasure of Jewish Holocaust victims.
His White House faced outrage after its official Holocaust Remembrance statement left out Jewish victims and never mentioned antisemitism.
Shortly after, Trump s Press Secretary falsely claimed that Hitler never gassed any of his own people a line many took to mean German Jews were not considered German by the Trump administration.Trump claims he will never forget but it s not entirely clear he ever knew in the first place.It also may be a further sign that Trump s mental faculties are not what they once were.
In a powerful piece published on the health news website STAT, Sharon Begley explored the ways Trump s vocabulary and articulation have diminished to a staggering degree.
In short, it s not just you, even the experts agree Trump s speech sounds like that of a small child without a firm command of language.
The implications for this are troubling.Although neither Johnson nor other experts STAT consulted said the apparent loss of linguistic fluency was unambiguous evidence of mental decline, most thought something was going on.John Montgomery, a psychologist in New York City and adjunct professor at New York University, said it s hard to say definitively without rigorous testing of Trump s speaking patterns, but I think it s pretty safe to say that Trump has had significant cognitive decline over the years.
And that s putting it lightly.Featured image via Lior Mizrahi/Getty Images