A recent hate crime in Washington, D.C. serves as a perfect example of just how dangerous Republican front runner Donald Trump s hateful, divisive rhetoric really is.On Monday, police released footage that captured a Trump supporter assaulting a black Muslim woman wearing a hijab outside of a Starbucks on April 21st.
Although the incident has been classified as a simple assault, when you hear the story you will understand why it is now being investigated as a possible hate crime.According to the Muslim woman, who did not want to be identified, she had been sitting outside the Starbucks when a white woman with blonde hair approached her and verbally attacked her for no reason.
The attacker allegedly said, F-ing Muslim.
Trash, worthless piece of Muslim trash.
You all need to go back to where you came from.
The white woman also revealed that she was going to vote for Trump so he could send all of you terrorist Muslims out of the country.
Although the surveillance tape itself didn t include audio, the attack is clear as day in the footage.
The victim was smart enough to begin recording part of the attack on her cell phone, and she was able to get proof of the white women saying, You re a terrorist.
So stupid.
The Muslim woman became frightened and tried to call the police but they were of little help.
When the officer arrived, he told the victim he couldn t do anything because the Trump supporter s hateful comments were considered freedom of speech.
After the officer left the scene, the white woman attacked the Muslim woman once again by emptying a bottle full of an unknown liquid over the victim s head.
The Muslim woman said the liquid didn t burn, but smelled strange.You can watch an interview with the victim below, where she describes the attack in detail:You can watch the surveillance footage of the attack, released by the D.C. Metro Police, below:Thanks to this incident, the neighborhood that the victim has happily lived in for the past six years now feels unsafe.
Currently, police are encouraging the public to help find the attacker.Trump s vulgar, hateful rhetoric and his easily influenced supporters are incredibly dangerous to the rest of the public and this incident is yet another example of how hate speech can have severe consequences.
No one should blow off the horrible bigotry that Trump spews as simply entertainment or insanity his words have tremendous power over his mindless followers, and they are more than happy to carry out his disgusting views.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images