White House press secretary Sean Spicer held a press briefing today and inadvertently just handed Saturday Night Live new material.
Spicer repeatedly interrupted and talked over reporters while trying to defend alleged president Donald Trump.
He also had to address top Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway s blunder this morning on Fox & Friends in which she literally hawked Ivanka s clothing line.A reporter asked about Trump s attacks on a federal judge this week.
Part of the reason the President got elected is because he speaks his mind he s not going to hold back when he feels passionate, Spicer said.Other reporters asked about that, too, then the exchange became more tense.
Thank you, you ve now asked the question about eight times, Spicer said.
Something she said to CNN earlier this week is that the President doesn t comment on everything, a reporter said.
I want to contrast the President s repeated statements about Nordstrom with the lack of comments about some other things, including, for example, the attack on Quebec s mosque and other similar environments.
Why is the President, when he chooses to I literally stand at this podium and opened a briefing a couple days ago about the President expressing his condolences, Spicer interrupted.
I literally opened the briefing about it.
So for you to sit there and say I was here!
the reporter said.
I know, so why are you asking why he didn t do it when I literally stood here and did it?
Spicer asked.
I m talking about the President s statement the reporter said.
I don t understand what you re asking, Spicer replied.
Kellyanne s comments were about how the President doesn t have time to tweet about everything, the reporter said.
He s tweeting about this.
He s not tweeting about something else.
I came out here and actually spoke about it and said the President Spicer said.
We re talking about the President s time, the reporter said.
What are you you re equating me addressing the nation here and a tweet?
I don t, I mean that s the silliest thing I ve ever heard.
OK.
This is silly, Spicer said while speaking over the reporter.
Next.
OK.
Thank you.
You ve asked your question.
Thank you.
Conway s bigly mistake this morning was brought up.
Questions have been raised after Kellyanne Conway did an interview, I believe it was with Fox News this morning, where she appeared to, from the confines of the Brady briefing room, promote the products of Ivanka Trump, a reporter said.
Do you believe that she crossed an ethical line here?
Kellyanne has been counseled and that s all we re going to go with, Spicer replied.
She s been counseled on that subject, and that s it.
Not so fast, Spanky.
She violated Federal Code 2635.702.Watch: Melissa McCarthy is sitting somewhere with a big smile on her face.Read more:Image via screen capture