On Monday, Donald Trump once again attacked London s Mayor, Sadiq Khan, for what he thinks Khan said about the London terror attacks.
Pathetic excuse by London Mayor Sadiq Khan who had to think fast on his no reason to be alarmed statement, Trump tweeted.
MSM is working hard to sell it!
Pathetic excuse by London Mayor Sadiq Khan who had to think fast on his "no reason to be alarmed" statement.
MSM is working hard to sell it!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 5, 2017Of course, Khan didn t have to think fast about anything and the MSM didn t have to work hard at all to sell his remarks.The statement was, again, taken out of context.
What Khan actually said was that there would be an increased police presence in the wake of the attack and that citizens have no reason to be alarmed.
Naturally, people showed up to once again let Trump know he s a douchebag:Well at least he didn't follow that statement up by playing his 23rd round of golf this year, you lazy cretin.
Jonathan Wier (@JonKMBZ) June 5, 2017You just vomit words with no thought PRESIDENT Lil Trump (@USAneedsTRUMP) June 5, 2017Pathetic excuse by American President who never thinks fast and is working hard to sell his bullshit presidency Jamie Lambert (@JamieCollabro) June 5, 2017You are, unfortunately, POTUS.
How dare you speak this way about the Mayor of London, a far more noble statesman than you'll ever be?
Bumble Ward (@BumbleWard) June 5, 2017Full quote: "Londoners will see an increased police presence today & over the course of the next few days.
There's no reason to be alarmed."
Liam Dryden (@LiamDrydenEtc) June 5, 2017He also knows his base will just take his word for it and not fact check anything he says Annafyock (@afyock2) June 5, 2017What the fuck is wrong with you?
Jay Baruchel (@BaruchelNDG) June 5, 2017HE MEANT THEY SHOULDN'T BE ALARMED ABOUT INCREASED POLICE PRESENCE YOU FUCKING MASSIVE MORON Stefanie Iris Weiss (@EcoSexuality) June 5, 2017Your explanation for misquoting him is that he retroactively changed the quote you were misquoting?
Morten verbye (@morten) June 5, 2017You actual mother fucker.
Who the fuck do you think you are, twisting his words like that?
You are literally disgusting.
Ethan Lawrence (@EthanDLawrence) June 5, 2017This is the second time The Donald has attempted to completely misrepresent the London mayor s words.
On Sunday, Trump tweeted that Khan says there is no reason to be alarmed?
about the at least seven dead and forty-eight wounded.At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is "no reason to be alarmed!"
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2017Through a spokesman, Khan made it clear that he has more important things to do than respond to Donald Trump s ill-informed tweet.
Featured image via Getty Images/screengrab