Comedian Patton Oswalt has a knack for calling conservatives out on their bullsh*t and coming up with the most perfect responses to their nonsense.In the past, Oswalt has made it perfectly clear that he really, REALLY hates Donald Trump when he dedicated this hilarious poem to the Republican frontrunner on National Poetry Day.
He s also been one of the more outspoken celebrities when it comes to opposing the GOP s hateful rhetoric (just look what he did when the GOP attacked Planned Parenthood).
Now, the comedian is sending a special message to voters, urging them to act in the best interest of America by making sure that none of the Republican party s clowns are able to get into the White House.In an interview with the Huffington Post, Oswalt touched on the 2016 election while promoting his stand-up special Talking for Clapping,which premieres on Netflix on Friday.
Although Oswalt has been a supporter of Bernie Sanders, he took the opportunity to clarify that he s not Bernie or bust.
In fact, he wanted to encourage all of his fellow Bernie supporters to adopt the same attitude, for a very special reason.
He said: I will vote for whoever the Democrats nominate against either of those two psychopaths.
I think they re both equally dangerous and backward-facing for this country.
When he was asked what he d say to a Bernie fan who would rather stay home and not participate in the election than give Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton their vote in the November general election, Oswalt had some harsh words: Well, then you re a fucking child.
Well said.
This is the same exact attitude Oswalt has taken to his over 2.6 million Twitter followers, urging them to unite for the Democratic party instead of divide.TwitterThe truth of the matter is that America cannot afford to have either Donald Trump or Ted Cruz as our next commander-in-chief, and the stakes are too high for us to lose millions of votes because people are upset their favorite Democrat didn t become the nominee.
Every vote for the Democrats regardless of the candidate will help keep America safe from the disastrous GOP.
Featured image via Andreas Rentz / Getty Images