Remember when Michelle Obama told an adoring crowd at the DNC Convention how she had to suffer through living in the White House that was built by slaves ?Remember in 2015, when President Barack Obama used the n word during an interview where he talked about racism in America, and actually tried to convince the host that blacks are victims of racism today, as much as they were 200-300 years ago.Barack Obama invoked the most charged racial slur in American society during an interview published on Monday, as part of an argument that while the US has made great strides toward equality, racism still pervades the nation.
Racism, we are not cured of it.
And it s not just a matter of it not being polite to say nigger in public.
That s not the measure of whether racism still exists or not, Obama told comedian Marc Maron, who interviewed the president for his popular podcast on Friday and released their conversation online on Monday.
It s not just a matter of overt discrimination.
Societies don t, overnight, completely erase everything that happened 200 to 300 years prior.
The legacy of slavery, Jim Crow, discrimination in almost every institution of our lives, he continued, that casts a long shadow and that s still part of our DNA that s passed on.
Watch:Well, it appears that lifetime victims, Barack and Michelle Obama have finally broken the chains of oppression that have been holding them back since they moved from their mansion in Chicago in 2008, to the White House, and then to their multi-million pad in DC, as they set their sites on 2 separate pieces of VACANT land on Martha s Vineyard valued at $12 million and $15 million each.Word around the island is that the Obamas, who ve rented a place on the Vineyard for the past several summers, are looking to buy.
The former first family has many friends on Martha s Vineyard Harvard professors Henry Louis Skip Gates and Charles Ogletree, and former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett, to name just a few and they would like to own a place of their own on the island.The 44th president and his wife, Michelle, are believed to be focused up island, looking at homes or buildable lots in the rural communities of Aquinnah, Chilmark, and West Tisbury.
(It s worth noting that the Obamas have always rented up island, including for a two-week stay this summer.
)No one s talking, least of all realtors, but we re told that one property that may be getting a long look is a magnificent waterfront outpost in Aquinnah owned by Caroline Kennedy and her husband, Edwin Schlossberg.
A few years ago, the couple, who inherited from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis the 377-acre Red Gate Farm overlooking the Atlantic Ocean, subdivided the property and put two parcels on the market.Both are still available but they don t come cheap.
Sotheby s International Realty is listing a 75-acre parcel for $15 million, and a second 40-acre parcel for $12 million.The listing broker, George Ballantyne of Gibson Sotheby s International Realty, declined to talk to us.
The properties appear on multiple sites, including Hancock Real Estate and Sand Piper Realty, which are both located on the Vineyard.
Boston Globe