This story of corruption and collusion is MIND BOGGLING!
The manipulation of American voters is beyond comprehension Researchers and political analysts frequent CTH because we bring you hard, factual, and fully cited research enabling you to make up your own mind about the headlines.What you are about to read (and see) below is a fully cited example of something we have discussed frequently, but withheld until today, so the oppositional forces cannot change strategies in their attempts to manipulate your mind.It is now time to lay all media polling naked for you to grasp.
Everything below is fully cited so you can fact-check it for yourself.
However, we present this with a disclaimer: the entities exposed will industriously work to change their approach from this day forth.You have probably seen the latest example of the media claiming a released presidential poll from NBC and The Wall Street Journal as an example of Hillary Clinton expanding to an 11 point lead in the weekend following the controversial leaked tape of Donald Trump.The claim is complete and utter nonsense.
Here s the proof.We begin with a google search showing hundreds of media citations referencing the NBC/WSJ Poll:And here s the NBC link to the poll, and the NBC Link to the pdf of the poll, and the NBC Poll itself in a scribed pdf:Transparently the poll is manipulated with: a) a small sample (500); and b) the following ideological make-up:By itself that ideological snapshot is silly.
Nationally the party registration is roughly 27% (R), 32% (D), and 40% (I) However, the polling sample is the least of the issues for this deconstruction.Arguing about the construct or methodology of the poll is typically what most people do when they are refuting a media poll.
That aspect alone is not the big story.Hart Research Associates is headed up by Peter D Hart (founder), and Geoff Garin (President) SEE HERENow look at what role Geoff Garin, Hart Research Associate President, is currently occupying (link here):OK, so Mr. Geoff Garin, the President of Hart Research and Associates , is currently working as a strategic adviser for Priorities USA in support of Hillary Clinton s election .
Gee, I wonder why the media never tells us that part?See the issue?Here are some recent tweets from Geoffrey Garin (the impartial pollster):In his sex scandal Trump remains the master of the double entendre.
pic.twitter.com/SP1N4WPHJI Geoff Garin (@geoffgarin) October 8, 2016Here is the VERY SCUMMY Geoff Garin arguing with Obama s equally scummy Senior Advisor David Axelrod in 2008 on Meet the Press:Wait, we re not even close to finished.
It gets better.Let s take a look at the recent financial connection between, Geoff Garin, Hart Research Associates and Hillary Clinton s Priorities USA Super-PAC.For that information we turn to FEC filings -HERE-.
What do they indicate?On Page #118 of the September 2016 (most recent) filing we find a payment for $178,500 (screen grab above)On Page #92 of the same September 2016 (most recent) filing, we find another payment for $42,000 (screen grab below) $220,500.00 in the month of September alone paid by Hillary Clinton s Priorities USA Super-PAC to Hart Research Associates.
The President of Hart Research Associates, Geoff Garin, is working for Hillary Clinton s campaign.
NBC (S Burke) and The WSJ (Murdoch) contact Geoff Garin (Hart Research Associates) for the post-debate poll data they will use on the day following the debate.
Hart Research Associates provides a small national poll sample (500) result, with skewed party internals, showing Hillary Clinton +11 points.Via: Conservative Treehouse