You can thank Obama and all of the Democrat race baiters out there for a rise in hate and division.
Obama was constantly trying everything he could to stir up racial disunity from day one of his presidency.
From the Beer Summit to Ferguson, Obama too the opportunity to stir up racial tension.
Now, we have a rise in disturbing crimes like the one below:The NYPD s Hate Crimes Task Force is investigating after police said a man made an anti-white remark and splashed a liquid in a 13-year-old girl s face, causing her eyes to burn during an attack in Queens.The victim was allegedly attacked after getting off a Q10 bus at Lefferts Boulevard and 101st Avenue in Richmond Hill around 3:30 p.m. Tuesday.Police said the suspect came up behind the girl and when she turned around, he yelled racial remarks and threw the unknown substance on her.It is believed the liquid was some kind of beverage, 1010 WINS Juliet Papa reported.As the teen s eyes burned, sources said her aunt followed the suspect managing to snap a photo him as he ran off northbound on Lefferts Boulevard toward 97th Avenue, CBS2 s Reena Roy reported.The victim was treated at Jamaica Hospital.Her father, Vincent Evangelista, said his daughter is feisty and strong, telling 1010 WINS Juliet Papa, She s going to move on from this incident and not let this in any way affect her in the future.
Surveillance video shows the man casually walking on the sidewalk and looking over his shoulder.
In his hand is a water bottle, which may have contained the burning substance, Roy reported.
Normally she travels after school with her buddies, but she was part of an after school program and came back a little later, he said.She was treated at Jamaica Hospital and expected to be okay.
Evangelista said they ve lived in the neighborhood her whole life and won t be changing their lifestyle.
As long as she feels safe taking the bus she can continue taking the bus, he said.Police have been scanning the area since the attack and commuters are hoping for a quick arrest.
The police came yesterday here and they went to the liquor store and they checked all the camera, said Francisco Disla, who works nearby.
I hope they catch him, said Kamle Dokhie of Richmond Hill.
I m scared for myself because I travel on the bus all the time so I hope they do something about it fast.
I think that s really scary that he s still on the loose because honestly I don t want him doing anything like that to me or my friends, said resident Nandanie Shamnarine.The suspect is described by police as a black man, about 30 years old, with a bald head.
He was last seen wearing a dark colored hooded sweatshirt with a red shirt underneath, royal blue pants, and tan and brown boots.Anyone with information in regards to this incident is asked to call the NYPD s Crime Stoppers Hotline at 1-800-577-TIPS (8477) or for Spanish, 1-888-57-PISTA (74782).
The public can also submit their tips by logging onto the Crime Stoppers website or by texting their tips to 274637 (CRIMES) then enter TIP577.Via: CBS Local