Donald Trump has finally pushed the intelligence community too far, and they will make him pay the price for it.Tensions between Trump and our intelligence officials has been clear since before the election in November.
But the tension reached a whole new level after the election as Trump has repeatedly attacked the intelligence community for revealing his connections with Russia and confirming that Russia helped him win.Now the intelligence community is declaring war on Trump after he attacked them in the midst of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn resigning in disgrace for lying about negotiations he conducted with Russian officials prior to President Obama leaving office.Trump blamed intelligence officials for Flynn s resignation, suggesting that Trump would have kept Flynn on staff had the public not been informed of Flynn s activities and treachery via leaks.The real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington?
Will these leaks be happening as I deal on N.Korea etc?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 14, 2017Information is being illegally given to the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost by the intelligence community (NSA and FBI?
).Just like Russia Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017The real scandal here is that classified information is illegally given out by intelligence like candy.
Very un-American!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017Those tweets are reportedly the last straw for intelligence officials, who are now ready to take Trump down for the sake of our nation s future and security.Former NSA analyst John Schindler received a message from a current senior intelligence official on Wednesday declaring that Trump will die in jail once the whole truth about Trump s relationship with Russia and Putin is revealed.
Now we go nuclear, Schindler wrote.US intelligence is not the problem here.The President s collusion with Russian intelligence is.Many details, but the essence is simple.
John Schindler (@20committee) February 15, 2017Now we go nuclear.
IC war going to new levels.
Just got an EM fm senior IC friend, it began: He will die in jail.
https://t.co/e6FxCclVqT John Schindler (@20committee) February 15, 2017Schindler previously wrote that intelligence agents are refusing to give sensitive information to Trump because Russia has ears inside the White House, particularly the Situation Room, where our most secretive intel is discussed.For too long, Trump has been attacking our intelligence community in defense of Vladimir Putin and it has clearly led to a break between the White House and our intelligence network.
Trump pissed off the wrong people.
He chose the wrong side.
Now we get watch as they take him down and put him behind bars.Featured image via Capitol Hill Blue