As Republicans stand firm about doing nothing to curtail gun violence even if that means letting terrorist suspects on watchlists purchase firearms they are sending a strong massage to the public at their 2016 convention in Cleveland: while your sons and daughters are being killed everyday, we will be safe and sound.The Republican National Committee will be banning firearms (and anything resembling such) from the grounds of their convention.
So while they go on and on about how dangerous, unconstitutional, stupid and lawless gun-free zones are, they are instituting just that.Here s a full list of what the RNC will be banning.
Not only are guns banned, but so are: whistles, noisemakers, strollers (sorry moms with children), umbrellas, flashlights, backpacks, binoculars, alcohol, drones, Wi-Fi signal grabbers, mace, tasers and so forth.So while Republicans (at the behest of the NRA) stall the conversation about curtailing the dangers of guns in society, they will be conducting business with armed guards while no one, not even the most ardent gun rights supporters, will be allowed to bring their precious weapons.If there is ever any evidence that the Republican Party is full of rank hypocrites, this certainly takes the cake.
Conservatives love to chide liberal politicians who have armed security but can t see what s going on right in front of their faces: Republicans don t care about their lives, only their own.
If that wasn t the case, Republicans would be supporting every gun measure by the Democrats while keeping their convention gun-free.So it shows that the NRA, which has dolled out tens of millions of dollars to the Republicans, really calls the shots.
Their donations stall progress for all Americans.
Republicans continue to protect themselves in their cozy arena.
No doubt the issue of gun control will be uttered by their speakers, and the crowds will cheer and boo.
But while those cheers and boos echo on primetime, they can rest assured they will be safe.
But the 96 people who die everyday of gun violence?
Not so much.Thanks for showing us your true colors, Republicans.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images