As everybody who still believes in democracy and true freedom reels from FBI Director James Comey s firing, the media and members of Congress have been frantically working to get the deets on what happened.
Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee (which is conducting its own investigation into Russia), just dropped a truth bomb about Comey, and Trump would be wise to go find a cave and hide in it now.Schiff was asked, on CNN, whether he believes this is a cover-up.
He doesn t. He thinks it s something worse: It s a brazen interference with a criminal investigation.
After all, the president calls this whole investigation a fake, and here you had an FBI director who was seriously looking into whether Trump associates were colluding with the Russians.
The end of his statement to CNN should be particularly jarring to anybody familiar with history.
Watch below:Rep. Adam Schiff on firing of FBI Director James Comey: It s a brazen interference with a criminal investigation https://t.co/5SXgAuTVBP CNN (@CNN) May 10, 2017Earlier this year, the White House tried to get the FBI to publicly dispute stories appearing in The New York Times about contacts between Trump s associates and Russian actors.
They ve been trying to bend the FBI to their will for a long time, and when Comey wouldn t lie under oath for them, or end his Russia probe, Trump decided to fire him.In fact, Jeff Sessions was actually told to find reasons to fire Comey, and they ve been working on it for at least a week.
Trump likely wants someone in that position who ll end that investigation before they discover something really damning.
He wants a puppet.If Trump was innocent, the White House wouldn t have been looking for reasons to fire Comey now.
Comey may not have even been fired, but if he was, Trump probably would have done it when he took office under the guise of getting a fresh start, as Schiff said to CNN.
This is not the behavior of an innocent man.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images