On the day before the 15th anniversary of September 11, the former head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Republican Christie Todd Whitman, has finally admitted she was wrong about the air quality at Ground Zero.In the days following the crippling attack, Whitman reassured first responders and those cleaning up the wreckage that the public air quality was safe to breathe:I am glad to reassure the people of New York that their air is safe to breathe and their water is safe to drinkAs thousands of Americans suffer debilitating illness and death due to the toxicity of the, Whitman remained silent for years.
Until now.
Speaking to the Guardian, Whitman expressed immense guilt and regret for staying silent, and told the paper she still feels awful at the events that transpired:Whatever we got wrong, we should acknowledge and people should be helped.
I m very sorry that people are sick, she said.
I m very sorry that people are dying and if the EPA and I in any way contributed to that, I m sorry.
We did the very best we could at the time with the knowledge we had.
Every time it comes around to the anniversary I cringe, because I know people will bring up my name, they blame me, they say that I lied and that people died because I lied, [they say] people have died because I made a mistake.No doubt that Whitman feels ashamed.
No doubt she is riddled with regret and guilt.
But after 15 years she final decides to speak?
After more than 1,100 people have been diagnosed with cancer related to the effects of Ground Zero and nearly 900 first responders have died as of June 2009 the apology comes a little too late.The effects of Ground Zero have been know for years and years.
Republicans have played politics with healthcare, and like Whitman, have not taken responsibility for their actions.As early as 2003, the Inspector General criticized the EPA s handling of the situation, and still no accountability or responsibility was taken.
Whitman did resign, but contends it had nothing to do with the Inspector General s findings and instead stems from personal decisions after disagreements with Vice President Dick Cheney.
Whitman had an opportunity to take responsibility, but chose not to.Republicans criticize Obama s response to Ebola, Zika, H1-N1, but look over Whitman and th Bush Administration s shameful ignorance ad deflection of the Ground Zero cancer cases.An apology fifteen years too late, but better late than never I suppose.Featured image via Aaron Davidson/Getty Images