Trump is not one for giving respect to anyone who actually deserves it.
He claims he s just not politically correct, but in reality, he s possibly the most offensive, hurtful, insulting public figure we ve had in decades.
To that end, someone has published a book called, Why Trump Deserves Trust, Respect & Admiration.
Don t let the title fool you, though.
The author, David King, spent years doing research for this, which led him to be on our side.Or (to save everyone from an entire, exhaustive review) it s a book full of blank pages.Seriously.Blank pages.That s it.That s all.There s nothing else, except one single note at the top of each page, which says: These blank pages speak a thousand words, but feel free to use for notes.
In addition to that, this book, which is for sale on Amazon, has a product description that reads: This book is full of blank pages.
Despite years of research, we could not find anything to say on this subject, so please feel free to use this book for notes.
I m GONE pic.twitter.com/MQTqEuRlJr ???
(@jigokunt) December 29, 2016We don t know about you, but we d likely use it to make lists of all the reasons Trump has neither earned, nor deserves, our respect and admiration.
He is a legend in his own mind, and an orange, narcissistic, shitfaced demagogue to those of us who can still think.That s not all, though.
The book also carries its own description on the back: Drawing upon exclusive interviews and exhaustive research, political analyst David King has compiled a complete and brilliantly accurate account of Donald Trump s virtues and qualities.
This is a refreshingly different biographical masterpiece.
If you didn t already know what this was, you might want to burn this book in protest.
However, it s worth at least one look, given that King and his blank pages freely admit that Trump has absolutely no redeeming qualities worthy of our respect, admiration and trust.Does Trump actually deserve our respect?
Our admiration?
There s a difference between the Office of the President and the person who s occupying said office.
Trump has done nothing to earn either.
He claims credit for things he hasn t done, like consumer spending during the Christmas season.
He s come under fire for sexually assaulting women.
He s blatantly racist.And so on, and so forth.
There s not a reason in the world that anyone with two brain cells rubbing together should respect and admire Trump.As for trust, all we could ask when we first saw the title was, Really?
But this book, with page after page of absolute nothingness, addresses that, too.
There s no trusting someone who lies about literally everything, not to mention claims he s the only person in the known and unknown universes who can solve our problems.Of course, some will see this as a publicity stunt, or a way of exercising the old adage, A fool and his money are soon parted.
It starts at $5.42 for a new paperback from Amazon, if you re on Prime.
If not, you can get it for $8 new.Even if nobody buys it, it s still an amazing statement to make about the horror that is Cheetolini.Featured image by Drew Angerer/Getty Images, and screen capture from embedded tweet