Outspoken British actress and columnist asks brilliant question: Any mosques lit up in the colors of the Belgian flag?
She is dead on (no pun intended) about these refugees flooding Europe and attempting to flood (with the aid of Obama and Democrats like Hillary Clinton) America.KATIE HOPKINS has been told to show some respect for those affected by the Brussels terrorist attacks, after blaming what happened on refugees and German chancellor Angela Merkel.Look at you all.
Gawping at pictures of death.
Fascinated by the chaos you brought to our peaceful countries.
You the left disgust me.
Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) March 22, 2016On a more positive note, the Jihadi's of Brussels just put Donald Trump much closer to the White House.
Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) March 22, 2016The controversial columnist said anyone who supported those fleeing war-torn countries was also in the frame for the blasts, which has so far claimed 34 lives.Any mosques lit up in the colours of the Belgium flag?
No thought not.
Just celebrations in prayer houses country-wide #ReligionOfMurder Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) March 22, 2016The 41-year-old told her 628,000 Twitter followers: Next time you hear someone say we are safer IN the EU remember Brussels.
Seen as the heart of Europe, it is now jihadi central.
Katie continued: How can you separate the human from the political.
Merkel and her ilk blew up Brussels #brexit.How can you separate the human from the political.
Merkel and her ilk- blew up Brussels.
#brexit Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) March 22, 2016How about we cut from pics of dead bodies on the Metro to more boats, happily crossing the Med.
liberal left sh*t at joining the dots Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) March 22, 2016 How about we cut from pics of dead bodies on the Metro to more boats, happily crossing the Med.
Liberal left s*** at joining the dots.
@KTHopkins totally agree xx Danielle Mason (@daniellemasonUK) March 22, 2016Katie added: Every one of you who said refugees are welcome, if you said let them in .
You are responsible for Brussels.
And you still can t see.
Human traffickers setting up new cargo ship route from Libya to Italy.
Are you ready Brussels?
Open borders=open season for ISIS #brexit Katie Hopkins (@KTHopkins) March 22, 2016Her remarks were quickly met by angry users who blasted her for the insensitive tweets.
To those of us who thought what @KTHopkins has had to go through recently would open up a shred of humanity, sense or empathy have been disappointed, one person wrote.Via: Express UK