Indiana Governor Mike Pence is at the center of a political and human rights predicament of his own making.It all relates to what he said or what he didn t say when confronted with a question about LGBT rights.
Speaking at a town hall in Kokomo, the Republican governor was unable to directly answer a simple yes or no question, taking 13 seconds to respond and then delving into defending religion.
Here is the question from an unidentified audience member: In a simple yes or no answer, do you believe that gay and transgender people should be able to be fired from their jobs just for that reason?
Pence immediately had difficulty with the question, taking time to think about it.
Moreover, the applause for the question itself threw him off.
Here is Pence s pensive response: It s a great privilege for me to be your governor, I don t think anyone should ever be discriminated against because of who they are or who they love.
My position as I expressed in my State of the State Address, and did again today, is we are a state with a constitution.
And as you know, as a pastor, that constitution has very strong safeguards for the freedom of conscience and freedom of religion of Hoosiers And my strong conviction is that, should the General Assembly put legislation on my desk, which they considered this year, and should I continue to be governor and they ever do in the future, it just must be consistent with the constitution.
But I will not support legislation that diminishes religious freedom.
I hope you hear my heart a little bit as much as my head on this, because it really is a great privilege to serve you.
I thank you for the question.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xbHm2wtl6F8]He s clearly throwing red herrings with his talk about religion, never answering the question directly.
Freedom Indiana immediately turned the clip into a political ad:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JY1FeQIgjsY]The problem with Republican conservatives like Pence is that they fail to realize why they are in office in the first place: to serve the public, and that includes everyone including the LGBT community.
Once there is evidence that they are not serving the entire public, then that s when people like Pence should be fired.
Featured image from video screen capture