Donald Trump has been demanding that someone provide proof that the allegations that he hired some nice Russian ladies to pee for him.
Well, that evidence may have surfaced and it may be in the possession of the adult magazine Penthouse or all places.On Tuesday, Penthouse offered up to $1 million for exclusive rights to tapes that multiple sources now say exist showing Trump, among other things, paying women to drain the swamp on his bed.
Four sources now tell the BBC that video captured in Moscow and St. Petersberg, Russia indeed exists, this tweet may have found it:ATTENTION:We are offering up to $1-million for exclusive rights to the FSB tapes of Donald Trump's #goldenshowers Penthouse (@Penthouse) January 11, 2017Penthouse s offer attracted three responses, according to editor Ralphie Aronowitz.
He explains that the magazine is not conducting a witch hunt, but that they simply want the truth to be out there.
He says the $1 million bounty the highest they have ever offered is because it falls in line with the magazine s brand perfectly.
If the story is real, which we don t know if it is or not, it really kind of hits at the intersection between politics, scandal and sex, which as a brand both historically and currently is our sweet spot, Aronowitz told IB Times.
For us, this was the type of story that we wanted to jump all over.
But at the same time there s been so much floating around as far as fake news stories there have been so many people who have just been taking shots at President-elect Donald Trump because he s an easy target, and we as a brand and as an informational source, we didn t want to jump on the bandwagon, he says.
We wanted to make sure this story could be verified, that the murmurings of their being actual video documentation that corroborates the allegations, do exist.
For us, this was a very real ask, which is just Give us some facts, and let us share the real story with our readers and with the public.
Tapes will be turned over to experts Aronowitz claims are formerly affiliated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation for authentication.
He says he has not yet received the physical tapes, but that he hopes to by the end of the week.Featured image via Getty Images/Spencer Platt