The Democrat motto: Whatever it takes UPDATE: An eyewitness stated that one of the alleged Klansmen was Black.Lol I wonder who on the democrat side who set this up.
Cause these "KKK" members were silent.
Not trump supporters pic.twitter.com/q2hf5ikEzh Kevin Smith (@Sbstud11) February 24, 2016 Lol I wonder who on the democrat side who set this up.
Cause these KKK members were silent.
Not trump supportersAnd of the "clan" members is black so I don't buy it for a second lol Kevin Smith (@Sbstud11) February 24, 2016And of the clan members is black so I don t buy it for a second lol It s hard to tell in the photo (I didn t notice till I got closer) but the one on the right had a black hand @KristinnFR it's hard to tell in the photo (I didn't notice till I got closer) but the one on the right had a black hand Kevin Smith (@Sbstud11) February 24, 2016A photo taken outside a Nevada Republican caucus site has stirred controversy as it was presented un-factchecked as being of two Trump supporters dressed as KKK members despite it being known that leftists have a history of dressing as Klansmen to protest Trump.The person who posted the photo, Krystal Heath, the general manager of a Nevada radio station, said the photo was sent to her by a friend.
Forty-five minutes after posting the photo she admitted she did not know for certain if they were actually Trump supporters but the damage was done.#Trump supporters dressed as KKK outside #NVCaucus location.
pic.twitter.com/iPfPcEghqW Krystal Heath (@TheFriddle) February 24, 2016 KKK pic was taken tonight at Cimaron-Memorial High School.
Volunteers asked caucus goers to ignore them.
#NVCaucus Two other photos were posted to Twitter, again second hand, by Nevada state Senate Minority Leader Aaron D. Ford, who is African-American.
So, friends of mine observed this at a republican caucus location this evening.
I ll admit, I m boiling right now.
?
So, friends of mine observed this at a republican caucus location this evening.
I'll admit, I'm boiling right now.
pic.twitter.com/baDftDUyxm Sen. Aaron D. Ford (@AaronDFordNV) February 24, 2016https://twitter.com/DrZacRobbins/status/702331551158128641In September leftist protesters dressed as Klansmen gathered outside Trump Tower in New York City.
That protest received nationwide coverage by the media.Via: Gateway Pundit