Republicans have been coming up with some pretty ridiculous reasons for why they think we need to ban Muslims and build that stupid wall.
Donald Trump and his administration have taken to making up fake terrorist attacks, which is sad enough.
But now, we apparently have to worry about people smuggling nuclear weapons into our country hidden inside bales of marijuana, no less.Rep.
Trent Franks did an interview with CNN on Wednesday and was trying to explain why we need Trump s border wall.
Sadly, he was being completely serious when he made this ridiculous assertion.
We sometimes used to make the point that if someone wanted to smuggle a dangerous weapon into America, even a nuclear weapon, how would they do it?
he said.
The suggestion is, maybe we ll hide it in a bale of marijuana.
There are national security implications here for a porous border.
As a group of nations, we need to understand that America is the world s flagship of freedom.
If we don t have a secure border, that hurts everyone in the long run.
As absurd as this idea is, this isn t the first time it has been suggested that someone could sneak in a nuclear weapon by stuffing it inside bales of pot.
Earlier this month, Rep. Brad Sherman made the comment that missile defense is OK politically, but remember you can smuggle a nuclear weapon inside a bale of marijuana.
As David Kay of the International Atomic Energy Agency explains, the scenario might not be as ridiculous as it sounds on the surface.
I ve often said, my preferred method for delivering a nuclear device is, I would hide it in a bale of marijuana, contract it out to the drug lords and move it, he said.
Marijuana is a good shielder actually for radiation.
The drug lords have a superb record for delivery.
They re not Fed Ex, but they re awfully close to it.
And contract it out and get it across the border.
Even Frank Ciluffo, the director of George Washington University s Homeland Security Policy Institute, floated the idea back in 2014.
If you want to smuggle in a tactical nuclear weapon, just put it in a bale of marijuana, Ciluffo said.
Because we re not doing that well in terms of some of our drug enforcement.
Luckily, we won t have to worry about any of this because Trump is going to build his massive wall and no bad people will ever be able to get into our country again!You can watch Frank s CNN interview, here:Featured image via video screen capture