Apparently, Trump has been unable to fill more than 600 executive posts in his administration, according to a new report from The New York Times.
With Obama leaving office now, and his swearing-in ceremony looming, he only has one option left: Retain Obama s staffers, at least for the time being.That has to be galling for someone who keeps insisting he s the best at everything, has the best of everything, and has a cabinet with the highest IQ ever (don t make us laugh too hard, sir ).
He clearly isn t the best at appointing staff or working with other people.
Senior Obama administration officials, along with some Republican lawmakers, have watched with growing alarm as the pace of the transition stops and starts.
They ve said, repeatedly, that Trump s team won t coordinate with them.The Times says that aides released the names of over a dozen fresh appointments, but that barely scratches the surface of what they have to do.
They also announced that they would keep 50 essential personnel in both the Department of State and Department of Homeland Security for the time being, including current Obama appointee Thomas A. Shannon Jr., who will stay on as acting Secretary of State pending Rex Tillerson s confirmation.Other Obama officials sticking around for now include:And White House press secretary Sean Spicer tried to spin it as ensuring continuity of government.
Har de har har.Things are so terrible that Strobe Talbott, the president of the Brookings Institution and former Clinton official, said: In 21 years of covering the State Department and in eight years of serving there, I ve seen rocky transitions and experienced what feels like a hostile takeover, but I ve never seen anything like this.
21 years is a long time to never see anything like this.For his part, Trump really doesn t seem to care.
He s floating around Washington, working to draw the crowds he so desperately needs to keep his ego properly inflated and still avoiding a lot of real work.
He s acting like the demagogue he is, preparing to be crowned tomorrow, rather than sworn in.
He even said it was bad karma to get too involved with the transition, and, according to the Times report, wanted to stop planning altogether.Besides, appointing people to his administration?
That s grunt work.
He s above grunt work.Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images