Part of the appeal of Donald Trump, at least for those who are drawn to him, is his reputation as a playboy who is rarely seen without a gorgeous model on his arm.
Married or not, Trump didn t care.
He s proud of the fact that he s a serial philanderer.
Now, though, he s being sued for something that goes way beyond just cheating on one of his wives he s accused of raping a 13-year-old.The alleged incidents (plural, as in a lot) happened more than 20 years ago.
Trump was, at the time, a regular at convicted pedophile and billionaire Jeffrey Epstein s notorious Upper East Side parties.The plaintiff for now is going by the name Jane Doe.
She alleges that the rapes occurred in 1994 and another woman corroborates her story.The lawsuit claims that a woman, who is only identified as Tiffany Doe, lured young girls from the Port Authority Bus Terminal and to the parties by promising them modeling careers.
We do know how Trump loves models.The lawsuit, which repeats some allegations made in a dismissed complaint filed in California in April, offers a graphic account of the young girl s alleged encounters with Trump, the worst of which is described as a savage sexual act.
The lawsuit claims that during this instance, Trump tied her to the bed and struck her face with his hand, saying he could do what he wanted, despite her pleas for him to stop.
The complaint alleges that Epstein also raped her.Source: The Real DealTrump s legal counsel hasn t read the lawsuit, but you can be sure that Trump will deny the claim.There will never be criminal charges in this case because the statute of limitations has long past.
This civil complaint might not make it to court either, because the statute of limitations for civil actions against rape is just five years, which means that the teenager would have had to sue while she was still a child.
She claims, though, that there were extenuating circumstances namely that she was terrified of Trump and that her family would be physically harmed if not killed.
Both defendants let plaintiff know that each was a very wealthy, powerful man and indicated that they had the power, ability and means to carry out their threats, the complaint claims.The allegations are pretty brutal, especially given that the plaintiff was still a little girl:Monday s complaint details extremely violent and horrific alleged encounters between Trump and Doe.
In what Doe s attorneys describe as a savage sexual attack, Trump allegedly tied her to a bed and exposed himself before raping her.
When she pleaded that he stop, Trump allegedly responded by violently striking Plaintiff in the face with his open hand and screaming that he would do whatever he wanted, according to the suit.Source: The GothamistThe plaintiff filed a similar suit in California in April.
That suit was dismissed because of a paperwork technicality.
Trump denied any wrongdoing in that suit.
He claimed they were politically motivated.
Of course, he claims everything is politically motivated.
He can t deny, though, that he had a friendship with Epstein, who was convicted of sex slavery.The plaintiff is asking for just $75,000 and legal fees.
She won t be getting rich, even if she wins.Featured image via Stephen Lovekin with Getty Images.