Curt Schilling, who is challenging Elizabeth Warren for her senate seat, took part in an interview on CNN this Friday.
And well, let s just say that it didn t go very well for him.Schilling finds himself completely baffled by Jews and just can t figure out why they vote for Democrats.
So he decided to ask Jake Tapper because he s a Jewish guy.
In hindsight, he will hopefully realize what an ass he made out of himself in the process.
I would like to ask you something as a person who is practicing the Jewish faith and has since you were young, Schilling began.
I don t understand and this is, maybe this is the amateur, non-politician in me I don t understand how people of Jewish faith can back the Democratic Party, which over the last 50 years has been so clearly anti-Israel, so clearly anti-Jewish Israel, Schilling charged.
I don t know what else would need to be done, said or happen for people to understand that they don t the Democratic Party is alive for Israel only because we have agreements in place to make them have to be.
Tapper, obviously trying to hold it together after such an appalling remark, responded, Well, I don t speak for Jews and I don t support the Democratic Party or the Republican Party.
I would imagine just to try to answer your question that one of the reasons many Jews are Democrats has more to do with Democrat support for social welfare programs and that sort of thing than it does for Israel, said Tapper.
And I know that a lot of Jews that are very strong supporters of Israel do support the Republican Party, he continued, but again, I don t speak for Jews.
Well, if there was any doubt that Warren would be able to beat Schilling in the upcoming election, there shouldn t be anymore.
He just shot himself and his campaign in the foot.Watch Schilling try to figure out the Jews, here:Curt Schilling: You re Jewish.
Why are Jews Democrats?
Dems hate Israel.
Jake Tapper: Well, I don t speak for Jews, but social welfare pic.twitter.com/4CejNNskDO Matthew Gertz (@MattGertz) October 21, 2016Featured image via video screen capture