REYKJAVIK (Reuters) - Icelanders, angry over a string of political scandals, ousted their center-right government in an election that could pave the way for a charismatic young opposition leader to form a left-leaning coalition, final vote counts showed on Sunday.
With the defeat of incumbent Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson s coalition government, his main opponent, the Left-Green Movement s Katrin Jakobsdottir, is likely to get a chance to form a narrow majority in parliament.
Still, the composition of any coalition government remained uncertain, as the president had not yet mandated a party to form one.
The Nordic island of 340,000 people, one of the countries hit hardest by the 2008 financial crisis, has staged a remarkable economic rebound spurred by a tourism boom.
Benediktsson called the snap election in September, after less than a year in government, as a scandal involving his father prompted the Bright Future party to drop out of his ruling coalition, citing a breach of trust.
The previous government was defeated last year following revelations in the Panama Papers about then-Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson s use of offshore tax havens.
In addition to the political scandals, a growing sense of inequality and unease about immigration in one of the world s most ethnically homogeneous nations have rattled a democracy known for its political and social stability.
After the final vote count, Jakobsdottir, 41, of the Left-Greens stood to gain a narrow majority in parliament with three other opposition parties.
The result showed a Left-Green-led coalition was possible if they joined forces with the Social Democrats, the Progressive Party and the Pirate Party.
Together, they would hold 32 of parliament s 63 seats.
The opposition has a majority, so that s a message.
But we ve also talked about that maybe things should be done differently and create a broader government, Jakobsdottir said in a TV debate on Sunday.
The Left-Greens want to reduce inequality and fund an increase in public health care, education and infrastructure spending by raising taxes for the wealthy and introducing a property tax.
The parliament will be split among eight parties.
There are two new parties, and one of the parties in the current tri-party government failed to get enough votes to remain in parliament.
The Independence Party, the main partner in the current government coalition, lost 4 percentage points from last year s election to take 25 percent of the vote.
It remains the biggest party, but the election was the worst since 2009 for a party that has dominated Iceland s politics for decades, getting support of as much as 40 percent of voters.
Asked during the TV debate if the Independence Party would get the chance to form a new government, Benediktsson said: I think so.
We are the biggest party, and I think it s normal that we should be a part of a future government.
We are attacked as a party that bears responsibility for certain things, he said.
We are in a new environment, and considering that I am happy with the result.
His party wants to reduce the national debt and cut taxes on individuals and businesses.
The Left-Greens came in second with 17 percent, up 1 percentage point from last year s election, and its probable ally the Social Democrats in third with 12 percent, almost doubling its share.
I think that the opposition with one extra party can create a really strong government, said Social Democrat leader Logi Einarsson, hinting at the possibility of a five-party government.
The new Centre Party, which was formed in September by former Prime Minister Gunnlaugsson, won 11 percent of the votes.
The Pirate Party, which last year rode a wave of anger against the establishment to become the third biggest party in parliament, stood to get 9 percent of votes in Saturday s election down from 14 percent last year.