(Reuters) - Energy infrastructure companies in the Caribbean and southeastern United States continued to restart as of Friday after shutdowns due to Hurricane Irma.
Irma was downgraded to a tropical depression on Monday and weakened further into a post-tropical cyclone by Tuesday, the National Hurricane Center said.
Kinder Morgan Inc said it is making significant progress on restarting systems that were temporarily or partially shut down as a precaution during the passage of Irma.
It said the Orlando and Tampa products terminals and their associated truck racks, the Central Florida Pipeline (CFPL), Elba Island LNG Terminal, the Plantation Pipe Line system, and other terminals in Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina are fully operational.
Dominican Republican Refidomsa s Haina refinery and its docks returned to normal after Irma, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters.
Statoil said operations at South Riding Point resumed earlier this week after being shut down during the weekend.
Buckeye Partners LP did not immediately have an update available on its Bahamas crude oil and fuel terminal, previously known as Borco.
The terminal is Buckeye s largest and can store about 26.2 million barrels of oil, fuel oil, gasoline and other products.
Buckeye s terminals in Puerto Rico have returned to normal, a spokesman told Reuters in an email.
Port Everglades, South Florida s main petroleum delivery hub, said it is open with no restrictions.
Of the 12 petroleum terminals supplying transportation fuels, 10 were up and delivering fuel to retail stations and two that are still working to reopen have water intrusion and related issues, the Port said.
Irma, which had ranked as one of the most powerful Atlantic storms on record before striking the U.S. mainland as a Category 4 hurricane on Sunday, has been blamed for at least 82 deaths, with several hard-hit Caribbean islands, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, accounting for more than half the fatalities.
COMPANY LOCATION ACTION FULL STORY Refidomsa Haina, Refining, docks back Dominican to normal Republic COMPANY LOCATION ACTION FULL STORY Norfolk U.S.
Opened origin Southern Corp Southeast facility gates for shipments destined to Charleston, South Carolina, though gates remained closed to traffic destined for Jacksonville, Florida, Savannah-Garden City in Georgia, and Florida East Coast Railway locations COMPANY LOCATION ACTION FULL STORY Buckeye Puerto Rico Terminal facilities Partners in Puerto Rico have returned to normal operations Buckeye Freeport, Targets normal Partners Grand Bahama operations at Bahamas Island oil, fuel terminal on Tuesday Statoil Grand Bahama South Riding Point Island storage and transshipment terminal operations resumed NuStar St. Statia terminal Eustatius suffered damage to several tanks and other equipment due to Hurricane Irma.
All employees safe, no oil spills have been registered; Assessments were put on hold due to Hurricane Jose Limetree Bay St. Croix, Hovensa terminal Terminals U.S. Virgin shuttered due to Islands storm, traders said American Brunswick, Shut down around noon Midstream Georgia on Friday and Brunswick evacuated employees Terminal Odfjell Charleston, Continuing Terminal South operations, Carolina monitoring the status of storm Port Hollywood, Open with no [nL4N1LU4L9] Everglades Florida restrictions Kinder Morgan Making significant progress on restarting systems that were temporarily or partially shut down as a precaution COMPANY LOCATION ACTION FULL STORY Shell Eastern Gulf Reduced staff at its of Mexico eastern Gulf of Mexico assets as a precautionary measure BP Thunder Non-essential Horse personnel evacuated platform from platform and associated drill ship West Vela