Jon Ritzheimer, infamous right-wing terrorist and incredible douchebag, barely squeaks by on his government disability check and has said that he is thankful to have a wife who works.
As it turns out, experts tell us that this guy who spends his days fighting imaginary battles and sucking up a good man s oxygen isn t the exception to the demographics that make up a right-wing terrorist militia, he s the definition.
These guys are broke, said Mark Pitcavage, who has been researching far-right movements for 22 years and has studied the Harney County occupiers.
Right-wing extremists, generally speaking, have very little money.
How a right-wing extremist occupation like the one in Oregon would pay for itself isn t exactly an issue there s been a lot of data on.
By referencing the research of people like Pitcavage, we can deduce that right-wing extremists are for the most part freeloaders, likened to teenagers who think they can take care of themselves but overwhelmed the first time they have to pay a bill or do a load of laundry.
It s quite possible that a lot of them will get tired and feel the pressure to go back and care for their families, Pitcavage explained.
Those families, left behind to care for themselves, are probably better off without their patriarch, the almighty man who controls everything and can make the decision to just pack up and leave on a whim to occupy a forest a thousand miles away that they ve never heard of before last week.Daryl Johnson, a former DHS domestic terrorism analyst, says militia members have a warped sense of priority where their duty is concerned.
A video released by Ritzheimer showed him crying that he would probably be killed and how much he would miss his family just before he held up a copy of the Constitution and declared But I took an oath.
They ll think nothing about taking half their paycheck and using half of it to buy ammunition and guns, Johnson told The Oregonian.The gist here is that these idiots aren t just the worst the American gene pool has to offer, they re also incredible assholes who are neglecting their families to go play soldier in the Oregon wilderness.
They re holed up in a facility they didn t pay to be at, squeezing the taxpayer for their utilities and costing tens if not hundreds of thousands more in wages paid to employees who can t go to work.The sooner these imbeciles are removed and incarcerated the better off the country and their families will be.Featured image via thetruthaboutguns.com