In a meeting Trump held with two Russian officials at the behest of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Trump is said to have bragged about firing FBI Director James Comey and boasting that it eased great pressure on him in how he deals with Russia.
Comey had been actively pursuing an investigation into the Trump campaign s involvement with Russian interference in the 2016 election that ultimately put him in office.
Trump, it seems, felt that the investigation was preventing him from cozying up to Putin.The New York Times reported that they had obtained a summary of the meeting which documented the exchange: I just fired the head of the F.B.I.
He was crazy, a real nut job, Mr. Trump said, according to the document, which was read to the New York Times by an American official.
I faced great pressure because of Russia.
That s taken off.
Mr. Trump added, I m not under investigation.
Trump s overt statement that the pressure on him had been taken off confirms Trump did, in fact, knowingly fire Comey in order to obstruct the investigation into his Russian connections.
The word bombshell gets thrown around a lot but that s a bombshell.The world might never have known about this frank confession of guilt because the White House prevented U.S. reporters from attending.
The only journalist in the room was a Russian government-backed photographer whom American officials said lied about his credentials.
He has kept his mouth shut.Meanwhile, the heat on Trump actually turned up since his firing of Comey.
A special counsel has been assigned to look into the matter.
And then there is this, a scoop by the Washington Post:The law enforcement investigation into possible coordination between Russia and the Trump campaign has identified a current White House official as a significant person of interest, showing that the probe is reaching into the highest levels of government, according to people familiar with the matter.There is someone currently working for Trump that investigators believe either was or still is coordinating with Russia.
What s more, thanks to the report by the New York Times, we know Trump knows this investigation isn t going to go his way.
That s obstruction of justice wrapped in obstruction of justice topped with more obstruction of justice.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images