Arthur Laffer, known for inspiring Republican economic ideology since the Reagan-era, and largely considered to be the father of supply-side economics, has just come out with another prediction.
No, not another false trickle-down theory of if you cut taxes on the rich governmental revenues will somehow maximize, and we ll all be better off this time he is weighing in on the outcome of the 2016 election.Not only does he think Republicans will win in a landslide, he thinks they re going to win practically every state.
Here s what he told host John Catsimatidis on New York s AM-970 on Sunday: I would be surprised if the Republicans don t take 45, 46, 47 states out of the 50.
I mean, I think we re going to landslide this election.
That s some estimation on his part.
The last time that happened was when Walter Mondale was running for president against Ronald Reagan.
That was three decades ago this guy must still be living in the 1980s.
Since then most economists have come out on the record stating his economic theories have been wrong, and that trickle-down economics is straight up bogus.
His Laffer-curve even has it s own laughable tag line: Laughing at the Laffer- Curve.
Governmental revenues have declined since it was first implemented, giving tax cuts to the rich that ultimately hurt the economy AND the federal government s source of income.
Still, that hasn t kept him from being a big wig within top Republican circles.
Hey rich guys like their tax cuts, we get it.
Now they ll do anything and everything to keep on justifying those lower tax rates they have become accustomed to.Here s what else he had to say in the interview: When I look at these candidates, I don t see one of them who wouldn t do a great job as president.
I think Donald Trump is phenomenal, I think Rand Paul has done a great job, I even like Jeb Bush I think Jeb Bush is great, he did a wonderful job in Florida.
Chris Christie phenomenal.
He also took a few jabs at Hillary Clinton, but pretended to be nice about it, saying that her day is over.
We get that he s a fan of Republicans, but there is no hard data to suggest even what he is predicting.
It would be interesting if he could cite some source or reference for why he thinks Republicans are going to win practically every state, or why he would be surprised if they didn t. Yet he doesn t provide any of that.If his 2016 election prediction is anything like his economic policies, you can rest assured it s flat-out wrong.Featured image via Laffer Center.