Donald Trump is a petty thin-skinned wannabe dictator who loves revenge.
And this is proof.As we all know, the Republican nominee is getting hammered by sexual assault accusations and the fact that he bragged about groping and kissing women against their will.We also know that Trump retaliates over the smallest slights or perceived slights and has no problem insulting women.Well, during a Miss Universe appearance in Australia back in 2011, Trump went on stage and promptly announced to the audience that he intended to get revenge on someone because they didn t introduce him because of a simple miscommunication.
Get even with people, Trump said.
If they screw you, screw them back 10 times as hard.
I really believe that.
Then he called out the name of his victim, who also happened to be the 2004 Miss Universe winner from Australia, and demanded she come on stage and stand beside him so he could make an example of her in front of everyone.
I ll give you an example: Jennifer Hawkins.
Where s Jennifer?
Where s she sitting?
Get over here, Jennifer.
First of all, how beautiful is Jennifer?
This is about getting even.
I was so angry at her yesterday.
Seriously, as I said, I thought that she dissed me.
I thought that my Jennifer I m going around saying she s my favorite Miss Universe, but I think I like the new one better, Jennifer.
So I go around saying she s the greatest then when I came here, there was no Jennifer Hawkins to introduce me.
Hawkins tried to defend herself by explaining that there was a miscommunication, but Trump disregarded what she had to say and proceeded to viciously humiliate her in front of her countrymen and women.
I was actually going to get up and tell you that Jennifer is a beautiful girl on the outside, but she s not very bright.
That wouldn t have been true, but I would have said it anyway.
Because I said, You know what, it would be great.
I haven t seen Jennifer in a couple of years.
She s so great and she did so well, and she s a big star here, and I helped her make it I own the Miss Universe pageant.
And I heard that she wouldn t introduce me.
And then to add insult to injury, Trump tried to crack a sex joke and then attempted to kiss Hawkins even though she clearly was not interested in having Trump s lips anywhere near her.Here s the video via Huffington Post.Donald Trump is a creep and a pervert who thinks revenge is the answer to any little insult or slight, real or imagined.
He does not have the temperament to be president and the thing we need is a revenge-obsessed egomaniac in control of America s nuclear arsenal and military forces.Featured Image: Kena Betancur/Getty Images