Sarah Sanders hit back at criticism that General Kelly was fabricating his account of Rep. Frederica Wilson grandstanding during an event to dedicate a new FBI office in Texas.
The press was all over Sanders who clarified that Rep. Wilson made comments during the event about how she got the funding for the FBI office by picking up the phone and calling Barack.
She was grandstanding and making the event about her, according to Kelly.
The fake news is saying Sanders said the press couldn t speak to Kelly but when you listen to what she said it s clear she said to go ahead if they want to challenge Kelly.
She NEVER said the press couldn t talk to him.In case you missed the wonderful message from Chief of Staff Kelly:White House Chief of Staff John Kelly says he was stunned to learn that Congresswoman Frederica Wilson listened in on the president s call to a fallen soldier s wife.
He came into the White House press briefing and let the press have it too.
He goes through the steps of what happens when someone in the military is killed.
He says that the members of our military are the best 1% of our population.
He said he was brokenhearted when he found out what a member of congress did.
This is a heartfelt moment that is amazing:KELLY DOES A GREAT JOB OF CUTTING THROUGH THE BS FROM THE PRESS:The retired general who lost his own son in Afghanistan said the call to Sgt.
La David T. Johnson s wife should have been sacred.
It stuns me that a member of congress would have listened in on that conversation.
Absolutely stuns me.
I thought at least that was sacred, he said.The White House official found himself at the center of a charge that President Barack Obama didn t make calls to the families of fallen soldiers this week after President Trump claimed that Obama didn t call Kelly when his son Robert died.Kelly said Thursday at a White House news conference that it s true but he wasn t offended.In fact, Kelly says he counseled Trump not to call Gold Star families and to instead write letters.Read more: Daily Mail