In the wake of his failed efforts to sell the gun he used to murder Trayvon Martin, racist George Zimmerman talked to the Daily Beast and said some pretty horrendous things about the slain teen s parents.
They didn t raise their son right, Zimmerman said.
He attacked a complete stranger and attempted to kill him.
Zimmerman pursued and initiated an encounter with the unarmed 17-year-old on February 26, 2012 as Martin was crossing through the gated Sanford, Florida community on his way home to his father s house.Despite being told not to pursue Martin, Zimmerman wanted to play cop and did so anyway despite having no reason to do so.
He shot and killed Martin with a Kel-Tec PF-9 9mm semi-automatic pistol and claimed self defense and got away with the murder because of Florida s controversial Stand Your Ground law.Zimmerman has been in and out of trouble with the law ever since, and has avoided punishment each time.Further, in a scheme to make money and use the profits to allegedly fight the Black Lives Matter movement, Zimmerman set up an auction seeking buyers for the gun he used to take Trayvon Martin away from his parents forever, parents whom Zimmerman continued to attack during the interview.
Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin did everything they could to capitalize on her son s death, Zimmerman despicably claimed.
She was never a mother figure to him.
Tracy Martin couldn t have cared less about their son.
He treated him like a dog without a leash.
Zimmerman should have stopped talking at that point but he continued to give Martin s parents advice even though he doesn t have any children of his own.
Sure, I m sorry for any parent that has lost a child.
That being said, I also believe it s their duty to have an internal dialogue to see what they should have done better and what they should have done appropriately.
If he succeeds in selling the infamous firearm, Zimmerman claims he will use the money to fight Black Lives Matter, get revenge on the prosecutor who prosecuted him during his murder trial, and fight against Hillary Clinton.
The purchaser is guaranteed validity and authenticity of the firearm.
A portion of the proceeds will be used to: fight BLM violence against Law Enforcement officers, ensure the demise of Angela Corey s persecution career and Hillary Clinton s anti-firearm rhetoric.
It s not the first time Zimmerman has tried to make money off the murder of Trayvon Martin.
He once sold a painting of an American flag for $100,000 on eBay, and conservatives donated thousands of dollars to Zimmerman to help pay his legal expenses.Clearly, this monster has no intention of staying in the shadows of society where he belongs.Featured image via ABC/Wikipedia