Mitt Romney looked like a defeated man too embarrassed to admit that the rise of Donald Trump is partly his fault.During an appearance on Fox News Sunday, the former Republican presidential nominee was forced to confront the reality that accepting Donald Trump s endorsement in 2012 legitimized the current Republican front-runner among conservative voters.Fox host Chris Wallace mentioned that Romney had a very different view of him four years ago when he endorsed you, and proceeded to remind Romney of that endorsement by playing video of him accepting it and touting Trump as a successful businessman in the process.Romney responded by saying that just because someone endorsed him doesn t mean he thinks they can be president.
Sixty-one million people voted for me,, Romney said.
I don t think all 61 million ought to be president of the United States.
But Wallace hit Romney like a ton of bricks by pointing out that Romney is flip-flopping, a charge that hurt Romney repeatedly during the 2012 Election.As Romney sat and listened in defeated silence, Wallace told him that most of the business failures Romney listed during his anti-Trump speech actually occurred prior to 2012 when Romney praised Trump s business experience and knowledge of how the economy works.
But you were talking at the time about his extraordinary ability to create jobs, his understanding of the economy.
It s not like Donald Trump everything you believe he did wrong has happened in the last four years.
A lot of those business failures you talk about happened before 2012.
Before 2012, he was making the birther argument that President Obama needed to show his birth certificate because he wasn t born in the United States.
I guess part of the question is, by legitimizing him back then, were you part of the reason he is where he is now?
Rather than answer for the flip-flopping, Romney attacked Trump and his policies, saying that they aren t good for America or the Republicans Party.Here s the video via YouTube.Sorry, Mitt.
It s a little too late to come out against Trump.
Like, four years too late.Featured image via screen capture