Today, Donald Trump yanked us out of the Paris climate agreement something we helped craft and onto which every country in the world but two signed and the backlash has been swift and harsh.
He s lost two members of his business council; mayors of blue-collar cities like Pittsburgh have blasted him even though he claims to have done this for them; world leaders have blown up at us; and even The Weather Channel has jumped on Trump.The Weather Channel might be expected to do this because they re in the business of reporting and forecasting the weather, which is directly influenced by the climate.
They also report on other natural events affected by the weather.
So, to express their displeasure at Trump s completely idiotic move, they ve done this to their front page:Yeah.
There isn t much we can add to that.The idiots who are crowing over this decision, who actually believe that this will make America great again, can t see past their own noses.
They have no concept of how the world actually works outside their own bubbles.
As such, they have no concept of how their pathetic bubbles are affected by things like climate change, and that ignorant and myopic view hurts us all.Utah Senator Mike Lee said we don t want nations lecturing us, like the petulant you re not the boss of me schoolchild who doesn t want to cooperate on anything.
Rand Paul called it unfair, while Paul Ryan called it a raw deal.
Ted Cruz said that the Paris deal would have cost us too much without acknowledging the fact that the U.S. literally just gave up its position as world leader, and that climate change will cost us far more than the Paris agreement ever could have.Meanwhile, world leaders are busy condemning us for Trump s stupidity.
Danish Prime Minister Lars Rasmussen called it a sad day, while Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is deeply disappointed that the United States federal government has decided to withdraw from the Paris agreement.
Italy, France and Germany released a joint statement blasting Trump over the idea that he can pull us out and then remake the agreement into something far more to his liking: We deem the momentum generated in Paris in December 2015 irreversible and we firmly believe that the Paris Agreement cannot be renegotiated since it is a vital instrument for our planet, societies and economies.
French President Emmanuel Macron yelled at us separately, too: I tell you firmly tonight: We will not renegotiate a less ambitious accord.
There is no way.
Don t be mistaken on climate; there is no plan B because there is no planet B.
And Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel shredded Trump on Twitter over this decision:I condemn this brutal act against #ParisAccord @realDonaldTrump Leadership means fighting climate change together.
Not forsaking commitment.
Charles Michel (@CharlesMichel) June 1, 2017Here at home, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, Washington State Governor Jay Inslee and California Governor Jerry Brown announced that they re creating a United States Climate Alliance, in hopes that the states will abide by the Paris agreement in a direct fuck you to Donald Trump:If the administration won t #ActOnClimate, the states will.Proud to join @JerryBrownGov and @GovInslee to form the US Climate Alliance.
pic.twitter.com/X6L5PiCZBw Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) June 1, 2017President Obama called it absence of American leadership, and said that the Trump administration has [rejected] the future.
In reference to Trump s disputed statement that he works for Pittsburgh, not Paris (Pittsburgh s mayor blasted him for that), Commander Scott Kelly, up on the International Space Station, had some harsh but true words for Trump, too:Withdrawing from the #ParisAgreement will be devastating to our planet.
Paris and Pittsburgh share the same environment after all.
pic.twitter.com/QNO5vHtmEF Scott Kelly (@StationCDRKelly) June 1, 2017Tesla s Elon Musk and Disney s Bob Iger both announced that they re leaving Trump s presidential business council, and Musk is departing another council on which he served:Am departing presidential councils.
Climate change is real.
Leaving Paris is not good for America or the world.
Elon Musk (@elonmusk) June 1, 2017As a matter of principle, I ve resigned from the President s Council over the #ParisAgreement withdrawal.
Robert Iger (@RobertIger) June 1, 2017Even Goldman Sachs is upset about this!
Their CEO, Lloyd Blankfein, tweeted for the very first time today, and shredded Trump over this decision too:Today s decision is a setback for the environment and for the U.S. s leadership position in the world.
#ParisAgreement Lloyd Blankfein (@lloydblankfein) June 1, 2017Trump will not get his glory for this.
It won t merely be delayed as we start seeing jobs pouring back into the country, or thousands of new jobs suddenly pop up in coal country as the coal companies realize they don t have to worry about the Paris agreement anymore.
There will be no glory.
And Republicans who scream about American exceptionalism no longer have justification to do so.
The United States does not renege on its commitments except for when Donald Trump is in charge.Featured image by Olivier Douliery-Pool via Getty Images