Donald Trump is definitely protesting too much.This would be a good time for Trump to keep his mouth shut, but as usual, he s not.When top law firms refused to work for him on this case, they did so for precisely this reason.
Having a client who constantly sets fires with his mouth is not a client any lawyer wants to put up with.
They would prefer Trump exercise his right to remain silent.
After all, we have that right for a reason.But Trump has been obsessed with whining about the Russia investigation and the obstruction of justice investigation led by special investigator Robert Mueller.
Trump was recently talked out of firing him by his aides.
So he has resorted to attacks on social media.On Friday morning, Trump resumed complaining.After 7 months of investigations & committee hearings about my collusion with the Russians, nobody has been able to show any proof.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 16, 2017The Fake News Media hates when I use what has turned out to be my very powerful Social Media over 100 million people!
I can go around them Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 16, 2017Despite the phony Witch Hunt going on in America, the economic & jobs numbers are great.
Regulations way down, jobs and enthusiasm way up!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 16, 2017I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director!
Witch Hunt Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 16, 2017Despite Trump s claims, there is plenty of evidence that Russia interfered with the 2016 Election and that his campaign colluded with them.
Even Trump himself asked Russian hackers to go after Hillary Clinton s emails.
Furthermore, the economic and jobs numbers are only great because Trump is still benefiting from the economic policies of President Obama.
Once his policies fully kick in, those will take a nosedive.Trump should also be informed that a lot of his followers on Twitter are bots and people who loathe him.
Pretending that everyone supports him is pretty damn pathetic.Of course, Twitter users swiftly handed Trump his ass.No proof?
Really?
There actually seems to be quite a lot Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) June 16, 2017Michael Flynn resigned over his ties to Russia and misleading the Pentagon about them.
That s pretty good evidence.
https://t.co/6ZS2qI2Pd1 Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) June 16, 2017Jared Kushner tried to set up a secret line of direct communication with the Russians.
That s pretty good evidence.
https://t.co/8VI6UO3GZq Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) June 16, 2017Sessions not only met w Russians during the campaign, but lied about it under oath.
That s pretty powerful evidence.
https://t.co/UYUOR30xnr Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) June 16, 2017Manafort received payments from a pro-Russian party while he was your campaign chairman.
That s pretty good evidence https://t.co/6wf4pClEvr Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) June 16, 2017And Russians themselves asking for immunity in exchange for their testimony is really, really powerful evidence: https://t.co/TPXgutpkZq Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) June 16, 2017If that is true, why would you say that s sad?https://t.co/n24XrbDDx6 Morten verbye (@morten) June 16, 2017The uncontrollable fear in your tweets is delicious.
Mike P Williams ?
(@Mike_P_Williams) June 16, 2017Actually, the MSM absolutely LOVES your tweets.
You contradict yourself on a daily basis.
Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) June 16, 2017Also, the Special Prosecutor absolutely LOVES your tweets.
He gets incriminating evidence handed to him every day directly by you.
Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) June 16, 2017The Circuit Courts love your Tweets.
When they ban your policies, you literally help write their opinions for them.
Keep up the good work!
Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) June 16, 2017WH Communications Staff also loves your tweets you give them constant excitement by undercutting them on a daily basis.
Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) June 16, 2017You haven t even passed your budget yet Ken Klippenstein (@kenklippenstein) June 16, 2017Any enthusiasm certainly isn t for you you just hit your record high disapproval this week: https://t.co/IyfFbKVUKU pic.twitter.com/DIk6kw5akj Ken Klippenstein (@kenklippenstein) June 16, 2017All the numbers you mentioned are what you call lagging indicators.
They represent the economy 6 to 12 months ago.
Give it a few months Impeach Donald Trump (@Impeach_D_Trump) June 16, 2017Dude you literally copped to firing Comey because he was investigating you and Russia Ken Klippenstein (@kenklippenstein) June 16, 2017Robert Mueller told you to fire James Comey?
Donald, you re not making any sense.
Take your meds.
david nuzzy nussbaum (@theNuzzy) June 16, 2017Lol.
So you just confirmed you are under investigation.
Unlike reality TV, firing people does sometimes carry consequence.
Real life!
Curtis D de Aldri (@cebsilver) June 16, 2017Reminder: No matter who told you to fire Comey, you re the POTUS.
You might have said, No, that could be construed as obstruction David Blaustein (@blaustein) June 16, 2017Instead, you fired him then bragged about it to reps from a hostile government, in the Oval Office, the next day!
David Blaustein (@blaustein) June 16, 2017Seriously, Trump really should stay away from Twitter.
He s only embarrassing himself and digging the hole deeper.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images