Donald Trump thinks his inaugural address was the best ever.
George Will emphatically disagrees.As it became clear that Trump would be the Republican nominee last year, the longtime conservative columnist left the Republican Party in disgust.Trump, of course, lashed out by calling Will overrated.
But Will fired back by nailing Trump s lack of intelligence.And after Will s review of Trump s speech, it looks like it s only a matter of time before Trump lashes out again.Trump delivered his inaugural address on Friday as a pathetic crowd watched and cheered after every word he uttered.Trump lied repeatedly and made promises he won t keep while portraying America as an apocalyptic wasteland where poverty and crime reign and the military is crippled.
It was a divisive and negative speech that ignores all the progress America made over the last eight years after a devastating recession nearly flattened our economy.But Trump thinks his speech was great and Fox News stroked his fragile ego by agreeing with him.George Will, however, was not impressed.
Twenty minutes into his presidency, Donald Trump, who is always claiming to have made, or to be about to make, astonishing history, had done so, Will began in his column for the Washington Post.
Living down to expectations, he had delivered the most dreadful inaugural address in history.
Will took on Kellyanne Conway s promise that Trump s speech would be elegant.
This is not the adjective that came to mind as he described American carnage, Will wrote.
That was a phrase the likes of which has never hitherto been spoken at an inauguration.
Oblivious to the moment and the setting, the always remarkable Trump proved that something dystopian can be strangely exhilarating: In what should have been a civic liturgy serving national unity and confidence, he vindicated his severest critics by serving up reheated campaign rhetoric about rusted out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape and an education system producing students deprived of all knowledge.
Yes, all.
But cheer up, Will continued.
Because the carnage will vanish if we follow two simple rules: Buy American and hire American.
Simple is the right word.
Indeed, Trump literally said this and tweeted it on Friday even though he doesn t obey those two rules himself.Will went on to reference Ronald Reagan s first inauguration and responded directly to Trump s declaration that What truly matters is not which party controls our government but whether our government is controlled by the people by cleverly quoting words James Madison would use today to comment on Trump s rise to the presidency.
A dependence on the people, James Madison wrote, is, no doubt, the primary control on the government; but experience has taught mankind the necessity of auxiliary precautions.
He meant the checks and balances of our constitutional architecture.
They are necessary because, as Madison anticipated and as the nation was reminded on Friday, Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the helm.
Mic.
Dropped.
And now we wait for Donald Trump s temper tantrum.Featured image via screenshot