Donald Trump wanted to give his supporters a strong reason to support him, and instead he just handed the rest of America a great reason to fight like hell to ensure he never gets elected.At a campaign rally just days before a crucial primary day that could decide whether Trump gets the nomination before the convention or not, he told his followers that if he loses, he ll go into hiding, never to be seen again.Signalling yet again that he would not be willing to support another Republican should he lose the nomination, Trump said there was nothing sadder than watching a losing candidate grovel at the feet of the victor.
Which, to be fair, is true if the victor is Donald Trump.Clearly not a fan of Ted Cruz, Trump suggested he would never go on to endorse him: They fight like hell for six months, and they re saying horrible things, the worst things you can imagine.
And then one of them loses, one of them wins.
And the one who loses says, I just want to congratulate my opponent.
He is a brilliant man, he ll be a great governor or president or whatever.
So Trump made his supporters a promise: I m not sure you re ever going to see me there.
I don t think I m going to lose, but if I do, I don t think you re ever going to see me again, folks.
I think I ll go to Turnberry and play golf or something.
It s bad enough that Trump is already playing the sore loser, but his gambit is almost sure to backfire.
It s been well documented that Trump is despised at almost surreal levels.
His unpopularity among nearly every demographic is so staggering that it s amazing he s made it this far.
The sheer level of loathing people have for Donald Trump may be the one thing that can truly unite the country.
He s hated by Hispanics.
He s hated by women.
He s hated by African Americans.
He s hated by young people.
He s hated by the one group the GOP could always count on, white men (yes, really).He s the most hated politician in three decades.
The last person who came close?
Richard Nixon post-Watergate.
Even Dick Cheney at the lowest moments of the Bush years was hated by (slightly) fewer people.That s a massive number of people who would all but run to the polls if it meant Donald Trump never shows his face in front of a camera again.
It s hard to imagine a better way Donald Trump could Make America Great Again than that.
And Trump just promised to do it.The stakes in this election, already very high, just became: President Trump vs. Trump never being seen again.
Pray America makes the right choice.Featured image via John Moore/Getty Images