Donald Trump s deplorable supporters strike again.18-year-old Yasmin Seweid was born in Brooklyn, New York.
So she has been raised in America her entire life.
She grew up surrounded by American culture and values religious freedom as guaranteed by the Constitution.And that is why she is able to wear a hijab and practice Islam.But while she was standing on the subway platform waiting to go home, three male Trump supporters targeted her and began harassing her.
They called her a terrorist, ripped the straps on her bag, and tried to forcibly remove her hijab all while saying Trump s name.The abuse continued on the train and Seweid was forced to exit at an early stop in order to get away from them.
Bystanders even watched the incident unfold and cowardly did nothing to stop it.She reported the incident to police, who are investigating the crime.In order to warn others about the dangers of Trump supporters, Seweid chose to write about her horrific experience on Facebook.
I take the train every single day going to & coming from class, but yesterday, something happened that I never thought would happen to me, Seweid wrote.
I was harassed on the subway last night and it was just so dehumanizing I can t speak about it without getting emotional.
Three white racists ripped the straps off my bag & attempted to yank my hijab off my head.
They yelled such disgusting slurs at me, I was so helpless and felt defenseless.
Look it s a fucking terrorist , go back to your country , take that rag off your head and so many more.
Trump s name was repeatedly said & it finally clicked in my head.
No matter how cultured or Americanized I am, these people don t see me as an American.It breaks my heart that so many individuals chose to be bystanders while watching me get harassed verbally and physically by these disgusting pigs.
Trump America is real and I witnessed it first hand last night!
What a traumatizing night.
Please stay safe everyone & never let anyone take your rights away.
Just thought I should share that with you all tonight.Here s her full post via Facebook.Ever since Election Day, Trump supporters have been celebrating by committing hate crimes against women and minorities.
In fact, the number of hate crimes skyrocketed and nearly 900 of them have been committed in the weeks since November 8th.
And experts say it is worse than the number of hate crimes committed after the 9/11 attacks.Donald Trump has done nothing more than create an atmosphere of hate and violence in this country.
With that being said, his call for unity is complete bullshit.
We can t have unity in this country when his own supporters are going around terrorizing people.Featured Image: Steve Pope/Getty Images