Go back to 1991.
Anita Hill accuses Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment just as his confirmation hearings are wrapping up.
Republicans, still sour about the failed nomination of Robert Bork, decide to turn the confirmation into a media circus in an attempt to smear Hill and save their ultra-conservative zealot from being held accountable for his actions.Women in America were disgusted with what they saw old, Republican men turning their backs on a respected women who was sexually harassed and instead blindly taking the word of their ideologue for purely partisan reasons.It was this repulsive circus show that led to the 1992 election, which was dubbed the Year of the Woman.
In that very important election, as not only was President Bill Clinton elected over George H.W.
Bush (who appointed Thomas), but some of the most influential women of the Senate were elected Barbara Boxer of California, Patty Murray of Washington, and Carol Moseley Braun of Illinois.According to the House s record:In 1992, women went to the polls, energized by a record-breaking number of women on the federal ticket.
The results were unprecedented; the 24 women who won election to the U.S. House of Representatives for the first time that November comprised the largest number elected to the House in any single election, and the women elected to the Senate tripled the number of women in that chamber.Women had one simple message for the GOP: they were sick and tired of sexist, old Republican men.And that is why 2016 will be the Year of the Woman.
With Donald Trump as the clear cut nominee for President of the United States, there is no doubt women will come out in full force with a clear hatred for him and his rhetoric and send liberal women to Washington in droves.Look at the facts:According to a CNN poll from April 2016, a whopping 73 percent of women have a highly unfavorable view of Donald Trump, and it only continues to grow.
Almost 40 percent of Republican women have an unfavorable view of the frontrunner.
He s now the nominee for the Republican Party.
The man who has referred to women as bitches and dogs is now the de facto leader of a major American political party.There are a historical amount of strong and competitive women running for the Senate this election season:Republicans fear that the Trump nomination could cost them the Senate.
And with women as the Democratic nominees for many of the most competitive races this season, things are looking good for another Year of the Woman.If Democrats vote down ticket (which thy usually do in presidential elections), Democrats take back the Senate with the help of eight qualified ladies.With dozens of House races being ran by progressive women, Congress could and will look vastly different of Democrats want it to be.
All they have to do is vote.
They just have to get out and vote.And with Hillary Clinton inching her way to the presidential nomination, it looks as though women will have more control than ever before, and that s absolutely a good thing.Women have one of strongest voices in the American electorate.
In 1992, they were pissed and rightfully so.
In 2016, the sentiments are the exact same.
Nancy Pelosi and Elizabeth Warren are taking Donald Trump to task everyday for his sexist, dangerous rhetoric.
Women are fired up, and they won t be quiet or sit this one out.I want women to decide this election.
They ve been picked on enough.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images