Republican lawmakers hate Obamacare, but it s saving the lives of Republican voters.Even though Brent Brown hated the Affordable Care Act and refused to vote for President Obama in 2008 and 2012, the lifetime GOP voter from Wisconsin wrote a letter to the Democratic Commander-in-Chief apologizing for all the bad things he said and thanking Obama for saving his life.Brown thanked President Obama because the Affordable Care Act allowed him to finally access the medication he needs to stabilize my condition.
Prior to the passage of the landmark healthcare legislation, Brown had been denied health insurance because of a pre-existing condition.
But because Obamacare requires insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing conditions, Brown was able to get the care he needed.So he wrote a heartfelt letter to President Obama in June, which the White House posted online, thanking him for saving his life and for being my President.
Brown also admitted that he was wrong about the healthcare law.Here s the full letter via the White House.To My President,I sincerely hope that this reaches you, as far too often praise is hard to come by.
Apologies to people who deserve it perhaps even less so.I did not vote for you.
Either time.
I have voted Republican for the entirety of my life.
I proudly wore pins and planted banners displaying my Republican loyalty.
I was very vocal in my opposition to you particularly the ACA.Before I briefly explain my story allow me to first say this: I am so very sorry.
I understand written content cannot convey emotions very well but my level of conviction has me in tears as I write this.
I was so very wrong.
So very very wrong.You saved my life.
I want that to sink into your ears and mind.
My President, you saved my life, and I am eternally grateful.I have a pre-existing condition and so could never purchase health insurance.
Only after the ACA came into being could I be covered.
Put simply to not take up too much of your time if you are in fact taking the time to read this: I would not be alive without access to care I received due to your law.
So thank you from a dumb young man who thought he knew it all and who said things about you that he now regrets.
Thank you for serving me even when I didn t vote for you.Thank you for being my President.Honored to have lived under your leadership and guidance,Brent Nathan BrownIn a follow-up letter, Brown updated President Obama on how he is doing thanks to the Affordable Care Act.The Affordable Care Act saved my life.
I can now say, after several surgeries, that I m in recovery from what was a serious autoimmune disease I was finally able to receive the quality of care that had eluded me for years.
I was able to consult the top surgeon in my state for the particular surgery I needed.
I was able to receive the stabilizing drug that was always hidden behind a doctor s apology: I m sorry, Mr. Brown, we have to take your financial consideration into account.
I was able to stay at one of the best equipped hospitals in my state for as long as I needed, without having to worry about checking myself out early because of cost concerns.
I had hope.If Republican lawmakers have their way, people like Brent Brown would lose this hope.
They would be stripped of the newly found healthcare that they have waited years to finally receive.
This letter is not only a testament to how Obamacare is helping millions of Americans, it s a warning to Republicans that they would be hurting their own voters by repealing the ACA.Brent Brown is a shining example of the Affordable Care Act s success and necessity, and he had the courage to say he was wrong and thank President Obama for fighting for him.
It s too bad other Republicans refuse to do the same.Featured Image: Flickr