Most Americans understand that we should all give the utmost honor and respect to those who fight for our safety and our freedom, as well as their families.
That is especially true of our Gold Star families those families who have lost a loved one in battle.
Of course, as he has demonstrated on more than one occasion Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump does not share these values.Trump spent the last 72 hours insulting the parents of a Muslim soldier, Army Captain Humayun Khan, for daring to speak out against his anti-Muslim bigotry.
Well, President Obama, on the other hand, spent his Monday afternoon at an event in Atlanta, Georgia for disabled veterans.
He also had very harsh words for Donald Trump.Without even mentioning the GOP nominee s name, the President took him to the woodshed over his attacks on the Khans and on the military in general: As Commander-in-Chief, I m pretty tired of some folks trash-talking America s military and troops.
You know, our military is somewhat smaller after two major ground wars come to a close.
That s natural.
We re going to keep doing everything we need to do to improve readiness and modernize our forces.
But let s get some facts straight.
America s Army is the best trained, best equipped land force on the planet.
Our Navy is the largest and most lethal in the world.
The precision of and reach of our Air Force is unmatched.
Our Marines are the world s truly only expeditionary force.
We have the world s finest Coast Guard.
WE have the most capable fighting force in history, and we re going to keep it that way.
President Obama is right, of course.
How dare Trump or anyone else who has never served or had family members serve trash talk troops and Gold Star families?
Trump isn t fit to be Commander-in-Chief.
He needs to take a cue from President Obama when it comes to how a potential president should act with regards to our military families and the sacrifices they make.Watch President Obama s remarks below:Featured image via video screen capture