Ever since Donald Trump came on the scene, famed political commentator Keith Olbermann has been on a tear with one mission and one mission only: To warn Americans of the dangers of a Trump presidency.
During the campaign, Olbermann had a show on GQ s YouTube channel called The Closer.
Now that Trump has won, his efforts are called The Resistance.
In Olbermann s latest piece, he reminds us all what Alexander Hamilton said regarding the creation of the Electoral College in the Federalist Papers.
In short, Hamilton s creation was largely an effort to be a safety valve of sorts, a check on the worst impulses of the public when it comes to choosing a president.
Hamilton said of the Electoral College: The process of the Electoral College affords a moral certainty, that the office of the president will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications.
In other words, Hamilton created that government body to remedy precisely this situation.
In that spirit, here is what Keith Olbermann has to say on the matter, first quoting Hamilton: Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption.
These most deadly adversaries of republican government might naturally have been expected to make their approaches from more than one quarter, but chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our councils.
How could they better gratify this, than by raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?
Then, Olbermann himself says: If the Electoral College is still not what Hamilton described, it is still what Hamilton intended.
It is there to weed out the unqualified, the unprincipled, the merely famous.
And especially to weed out a creature of foreign powers.
Or, in Donald Trump s case, all of the above.
That s just the thing.
The Electoral College was never meant to be nothing but a formality and only a rubber stamp; quite the opposite, in fact.
The meeting of the electors after the November election is supposed to be a serious deliberation on the qualifications of the president-elect.
If they deem that person unfit, then the electors have not just the authority, but the patriotic and indeed Constitutional duty to install a person qualified for that office.Olbermann continues, this time turning to the confirmed Russian interference in our 2016 electoral process, with the clear intention and eventual success of electing Trump: Would it be an act of victory over the Russians who committed an act of war against us by interfering with our election?
Would it be defense against Trump and this banana Republican government of his which will turn the world over to Vladimir Putin and, oh by the way, end our democracy?
Before you answer that, answer this: We can t have Clinton, Alexander Hamilton is dead, and the alternative is an unelected dictator.
Would you now trade Donald Trump for a President Mitt Romney, a President John McCain or a President Evan McMullin?
Me?
In a heartbeat!
You re damn right I d take any of those three over Trump.
As much as I d rather have Hillary, I ll take Romney or McCain gladly and I d especially love McMullin, since he s been busily sounding the alarm on how dangerous Trump is this entire time.
He is reasonable and would do a good job.
Further, he isn t an extremist, just a run of the mill conservative.In short, Olbermann is right.
It is time for the Electoral College to stop being a rubber stamp, and to do their job.
They all know that Trump is unqualified, and therefore should not assume the office of the presidency.Watch the video below:It s as if 83,549 days ago Alexander Hamilton saw Trump coming and provided the way to stop him with HRC as the hero pic.twitter.com/lBCaVnXy3o Keith Olbermann (@KeithOlbermann) December 15, 2016Featured image via Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images