The moment the initial members of the Bundy militants were arrested, effectively ending the occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon, one thing was for certain: as paranoid, anti-government conspiracy theorists, these people could be counted on for some absolute batsh*t crazy legal defenses.
But no one could anticipate the sheer stupidity of their other legal filings.Shawna Cox, the woman who falsely claimed that LaVoy Finicum was executed with his hands in the air when in actuality he was attempting to pull a gun on law enforcement, filed a lawsuit against the big, bad federal government.
Cox is seeking a whopping $666,666,666,666.66 in damages because she says the government harmed her in performing works of the devil including her attempted execution.KATU reports that Cox, who managed to convince the court to do her a special favor in allowing her to attend Finicum s funeral, quickly found her lawsuit tossed out because her claims are not cognizable in this criminal proceeding and will not be addressed in this case.
Cox maintains that she did not interfere with public employees when she and her friends undertook an armed occupation of the Refuge because it was their choice not to come to work out of guilt, that federal employees were secretly extending the boundaries of Malheur, and says that she is being maliciously prosecuted by the State and Federal Bar Association members because they do not want to be held accountable for their subversive activities against the people of the United States of America.
No one is safe from her wrath.
Cox says she will be asking the jury to render civil and criminal charges against a number of public officials, including All of the Oregon State Bar members, and public employees who were involved in the persecution, prosecutorial misconduct, and ineffective council involving the incarceration of the Hammonds, including each and every one of them who violated the separation of powers and held offices in the judiciary and / or legislative and /or executive branches at the same time, anyone who interfered with the militia s attempt to form an illegal and unrecognized Grand Jury to prosecute public officials, and all involved in the ambush that attempted to execute myself and others and executed LaVoy Finicum.
She also says she wants charges against all state, public, and federal officials involved in organizing and authorizing the ambush execution of myself and others including LaVoy Finicum as well as all of the state employees involved in the ambush that attempted to execute myself and others, and resulted in LaVoy Finicum s murder.
Cox specifically names Judge Grasty, Senator Cliff Bentz, Harney County Prosecutor Tim Calhoun, Governor Kate Brown, U.S. prosecutors Dwight Holton, Kirk Engdall, Kelley Zusman, S. Amanda Marshall, Judge Hogan, and Judge Ann Aiken as well as officials who committed crimes against the Hammond family and myself by omissions and misprision [sic] pf felony s [sic], Sheriff David Ward and Special Agent Katherine Armstrong.She says she is seeking the $666 billion in damages because these individuals subjected her to damages from the works of the devil.
If this seems nuts to you, you re probably right.
These armed and crazed individuals declared war on the federal government, openly, and have essentially received a slap on the wrist for their anti-government efforts.Words can not describe the insanity of this woman s claims, so read them for yourself.
Shawna Cox&#39;s claim for damagesFeatured image via Oregon Live