College is the time to dream.
For many, it s also the time to party.
Paul Ryan was no exception, only surrounded by idealists, the future Speaker of the House dreamt of a dystopian world where being poor was a crime worthy of death.You think I m exaggerating?
During an ideas summit from National Review, Ryan sat down with the magazine s publisher and reminisced about his college days.Lowry: You have been very clear for years and we ve seen compelling PowerPoint presentations about how the entitlements and entitlements growing out of control is driving the country into a ditch on the debt.
And we have a president of the United States who basically seems pledged not to touch entitlements.
Where does that leave us?Ryan: So, the health care entitlements are the big, big, big drivers of our debt.
There are three.
Obamacare, Medicaid, and Medicare.
Two out of three are going through Congress right now.
So, Medicaid sending it back to the states, capping its growth rate.
We ve been dreaming of this since you and I were drinking out of a keg.
[Laughter]Lowry: I was thinking about something else, he was thinking about reforming Medicaid.Ryan: I was, I was!
I ve been thinking about this for a long time.
We are on the cusp of doing something we ve long believed in.Awww, what a sweet story.Don t let the irony of Ryan s college dreams escape you.
He only attended college because he was on the government dole.
In fact, he s pretty much always been on the government dole.Rep.
Paul Ryan, the GOP s most outspoken advocate for cutting and privatizing Social Security, has already benefited from Social Security himself, in the form of survivor benefits he received after his father s untimely death.From the age of 16, when his 55-year-old father died of a heart attack, until he was 18, Ryan received Social Security payments, which, according to a lengthy profile in WI Magazine, he put away for college.
The eventual budget czar attended Miami University in Ohio to earn a B.A.
in economics and political science, and landed a congressional internship as a junior.Ryan s congressional ascent, all the way to the top spot on the Budget Committee, began with his Social Security-funded college education.Source: Raw StoryWhile Ryan is in complete denial of all the government money he s been given throughout the years, his dreams do have real life consequences.
According to the Congressional Budget Office, Ryan s healthcare plan will steal access to healthcare from about 24 million people, but who are we to argue with a drunken college dream?Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images