A horrifying incident took place in the early hours of Monday morning in Finsbury Park in London.A van plowed into a group of Muslim worshipers as they were leaving prayers at a pair of North London mosques.Yep you read that right.
A terrorist attack has happened in London against Muslims.
This incident follows two recent terrorist attacks in London in which vehicles have been used as weapons, both on bridges over the Thames River.
So far this attack has left one person is dead and 10 others injured.
This is being treated as a terrorist attack, said Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Neil Basu told reporters.
He added that the driver of the van was arrested on suspicion of murder.According to the Washington Post, witnesses said the driver of the vehicle was heard shouting that he wanted to kill Muslims.Thankfully, the driver didn t get away.
The Washington Post reports that Abdulrahman Aidroos and his friends were attending to an elderly man who had collapsed on the ground when suddenly he saw a man in a van driving straight into us.
When the driver of the van jumped out of the vehicle and tried to run I tackled him on the floor until the police came, Aidroos told the BBC.
When he was running, he said I want to kill more people, I want to kill more Muslims.
It s absolutely appalling and to think another human being has done this.Though it s clear there s something wrong with this attacker, we need to stop fear mongering when it comes to Muslims.
The worst has now happened as a result.Muslims are entirely separate from ISIS just like the KKK is separate from the Christian church.
Just like Nazism is entirely separate from Germans.
There are bad people evil people in the world.
But attacking innocent people won t stop the problem or rid the world of evil.
It just hurts innocent people and their loved ones.We need to stop being so divided and scapegoating other people.
That won t solve any problems it ll just create new ones.Featured Image by Carl Court/Getty Images