If the Republican Party really cared about winning this race, they d cancel the upcoming debate with CNN.
The only logical reason for the GOP establishment to agree to allow CNN to host the next debate would be if they were working behind the scenes with CNN to take Trump out.
But the RNC wouldn t do that would they?
Left-wing cable news network CNN has been caught red-handed selectively editing Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump s comments about a Muslim registry, and doing so in order to make it sound as though he is agreeing to this registry.
He is not.The edited video is yet another lying log on the left-wing garbage fire that is CNN, and yet in just three weeks, this very same garbage fire is hosting the next Republican presidential debate!What exactly does CNN have to do in order to lose its right to depose these candidates for two hours in front of the whole world?
If CNN is already maliciously editing video to take out out the frontrunner, I don t even want to speculate.Courtesy of Gateway Pundit, watch the CNN video.
Pay special attention to the sneaky edit just before Trump says absolutely :The left-wing liars at CNN have intentionally edited the video to make it look as though Trump said absolutely to a Muslim registry.
What CNN edited out is in bold:Reporter: Should there be a database system that tracks Muslims who are in this country?Trump: There should be a lot of systems, beyond databases.
We should have a lot of systems, and today you can do it.
But right now we need to have a border, we have to have strength, we have to have a wall, and we cannot let what s happening to this country happen any longer.Reporter: Is that something your White House would like to implement?Donald Trump: I would certainly implement that.
Absolutely.Trump s absolutely is clearly in reference to strengthening the border.
Look at the whole transcript.
When the NBC News reporter asks, Is that something your White House would like to implement?, Trump has just talked about fortifying the border and obviously believes that is what the NBC reporter is referring to.CNN edited that out!It is time for Reince Priebus and the Republican Party to stand up these left-wing hit squads disguising themselves as journalists.CNN should not be allowed within a country mile of a GOP debate.How many more warning signs does the Republican Party need to realize that this is a suicide mission?Do we want to win in 2016, or not?Via: Breitbart News