Sweet cheese!
Donald Trump is the gift that keeps on giving.
I ve said repeatedly that I love Trump because he s making it impossible for people to pretend that the conservative movement is not motivated by hate and rage.
And like in the case of Thomas Robb, the head of the KKK, some people are not even trying to keep up the charade:According to Robb, Trump has tapped into an underlying anger among white people, adding that white people in America no longer identify with what America has become.
This is fueling the anger in this country, and I think this is what we re seeing in this election, he said.YES!
THANK YOU!
That s exactly it!
Mr. Robb is letting the cat out of the bag that fear and hate is the core of conservatism, a core that Trump is exploiting to great effect.
This, as I keep saying, is why the Republican establishment is so mad at Trump.
They don t mind the racism, they mind of the overt nature of it.
Without the veneer of respectability, Republicans will not be able to pretend they re not the party of old white racists.
The corporate media is still working extra hard to avoid using the word racism when talking about Trump s inflammatory rhetoric but no one s buying even that little bit of pretense.Why else is Trump so popular with white supremacists?
He s feeding into all of their fears and that helps their cause.America is no longer the sole property of white people and it s driving whites, particularly conservative whites, into a frenzy of fear and rage.
Partly because they expect blacks and Latinos to treat them the same way they treated blacks and Latinos.
But, more importantly, with minorities having equal or greater political power, white people are going to be forced to compete on a level economic, legal and social playing field.
For people who are utterly convinced that they succeeded 100% due to their own awesomeness, this is a terrifying prospect.
America s ENTIRE history has been influenced by the idea that white people are inherently superior.
It will be quite the cultural shock to find out that without the system rigged in their favor, whites are just like everyone else.There are a lot of white people who will grasp at any hope of stopping this awful future from coming to pass and Trump is just the man to (make believe he can) do it!
White power, indeed.Feature image via Heavy.com