Ever the self-absorbed, narcissistic candidate, Donald Trump has nevertheless been reduced to doing what every other candidate in any race does sending out fundraising emails asking for donations.
His first email, though, doesn t feel like a sincere attempt at raising money.
Instead, it s full of the same language he uses to talk about how great he is, with a little twist thrown in to remind everyone of how rich he is, too.Our three-ring political circus began his very first fundraising email with this: I m going to help make it the most successful introductory fundraising email in modern political history by personally matching every dollar that comes in WITHIN THE NEXT 48 HOURS At most, that will raise $4 million, and only if everything goes exactly as planned, including the number of people he believes will donate the needed dollars.
Considering that Ben Carson s failure of a campaign has more cash on hand than he does, this fundraising effort already isn t off to the best of starts.
It doesn t seem to matter to him, though, as long as he comes off sounding like the winner we all know he s not: Even without this match, this initial effort would have been the most successful first fundraising email in history.
I am certain of this.
Oh, please.
What a prognosticator he is!
He then gets into his typical insulting rant, attacking Hillary Clinton and alluding to this delusion he s got that, once he s president, America will win so much that we ll all be sick of it: The bottom line Crooked Hillary has been a DISASTER for our country, and we must win against her this fall.Let s make history again, and keep winning, by making this the most successful first fundraising email ever.
And if it s not, he ll get up on a stage somewhere, stand behind a podium, and claim he raised ten times the amount of money he actually raised just so he can look successful.
For May, his campaign only raised $3 million, compared to the $26 million that Hillary raised.
Hillary also has $40 million more in cash than Trump does.
Yet he told NBC News, I understand money better than anybody.
Sure he does.
So he ll raise $4 million if he s very lucky and claim he raised $40 million.
Or at least, that he outraised Hillary even if it s not true.
As Slate writer Elliot Hannon said, It will be interesting to see if the email moves the needle.
At all.Featured image by Branden Camp/Getty Images