The Democrats have been in Washington DC only because of the negro vote.
You put them first, and they put you last.
Because you re a chump.
A political chump.
Malcolm XIf Malcolm X were alive today, how would he feel about our first Black President ?
How would he feel about Obama encouraging millions of illegal aliens and refugees to come to America and take the jobs of millions of unemployed Americans struggling to find work?
The truth of the matter is, Obama will go down as the worst President in history for Blacks in America.
While we definitely don t agree with some of the positions Malcolm X took, we do agree that the Democrats have been selling the black community a bill of goods for decades.
Perhaps it s time to get off the Democrat Plantation and vote for a candidate who genuinely wants to put every unemployed black citizens back to work.
Perhaps its time for someone with no political ties to come in and clean Obama s corrupted house.
Larry Elder had a fascinating column discussing Malcolm X and how he really felt about the Democratic Party and black people who voted in lockstep with this party.
He even goes on to show how the Democrats have continued to destroy almost every aspect of the black family and how their policies are exactly against what Malcolm X had been advocating.Back in 1964, the black community gave 80 percent of their vote to the Democratic Party.
As a result of this, Malcolm X called them political chumps.
Why?
Because the black community had been betrayed by the Democrats.
The white vote was so close that they always need to go back and recount, which means that if black people were to stick together, they have the power of determining who is ultimately elected.
Still, the Democrats failed to deliver on a promised civil rights bill because they correctly anticipated that they could still count on the black vote and their blind support in the next election.https://youtu.be/7BYVv4LY_KQStrong words indeed.
But it also begs the question of what would Malcolm X think about the situation today?
Today, it is even worse, with about 90 to 95 percent of the black vote being in lockstep with the Democratic Party.
Yet, the Democrats have not kept their promises of family stability, education, and job creation.Over the last 50 years, the black community and its family unity has been completely destroyed.
Even when slavery prevented marriage, a black child was more likely to be raised in a home with their biological mother and father than today.
According to economist Walter Williams, during the period of 1890-1940 a black child was slightly more likely to grow up with married parents than a white child.Back in 1965, 24 percent of black babies were born to unmarried mothers.
Then, the War on Poverty began and today this number is up to 72 percent.
Interesting to see that the more money we supposedly threw at helping the black family, the worse things have become.
Plus, it has not helped to reduce the rate of poverty, either.
Since 1965 the government has spent nearly $20 trillion fighting poverty.
When this started, the poverty rate was 17 percent.
After this spending started, the rate began to flat line (it had been consistently going down since 1949 before this) because people learned that they could marry the government and that men could abandon their financial and moral responsibility.Malcolm X was also fond of pointing out how he learned from a good library.
Wonder how he would feel today about the Democratic opposition to school vouchers, allowing money to follow the student rather than the school?
Urban schools, with predominantly black students, have unquestionably failed.
They continue churning out kids who cannot read, write, and compute.
The drop out rate approaches 50 percent in some districts.
Teachers even send their own kids to private schools.Plus, there is 14 percent black unemployment thanks to our wonderful community organizer in chief.
Heck, Emanuel Cleaver (Dem, MO), former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has admitted that if this had happened under a white president, there would be hell to pay but Obama knows that blacks are going to show him more slack since he black himself.All of this is interesting to think about.
It shows us just exactly what the Democrats really think of the black community.
They have never been about actually doing something to help and improve the lives of their constituents.
Rather, they are only focused on increasing their power.
Starting with Kennedy and LBJ, the whole idea was to trap the black vote in a cycle of dependence so that they would need to rely on the government for everything.
DownTrend