Over the years, when we Americans have gotten ourselves into trouble, there have been many jokes made by the British people that essentially say that they should never have given Americans our freedom.
This was all good-natured ribbing; after all, Britain is one of our closest allies.
However, thanks to the election of one Donald J. Trump, no one is laughing now.Prince Charles decided to without mentioning his name, of course take a shot at Donald Trump during a recent speech to the British public.
He warned of the dangers of going after certain segments of people based upon their religious beliefs and reminded people that this is exactly what happened in the 1930s, namely with the rise of Hitler and the eventual execution of the Jewish people.
The Prince said, in part: We are now seeing the rise of many populist groups across the world that are increasingly aggressive to those who adhere to a minority faith.
All of this has deeply disturbing echoes of the dark days of the 1930s.
Of course, we all know of the deeply disturbing proposals Trump has made with regards to American Muslims, with the suggestions of a Muslim ban and a registry of Muslims seemingly still on the table, and many seemed to see this as the Prince s way of warning against those dangerous and bigoted ideas.
This sort of thing is right out of Adolf Hitler s playbook, and anyone who cannot see that definitely needs to wake up.
Prince Charles continued: The story of the Nativity unfolds with the fleeing of the holy family to escape violent persecution and to have similar compassion for people fleeing persecution in their homelands today.
Of course, the bigots in Trump s brainwashed camp will never understand the historical parallels; after all, many of his supporters are incredibly ignorant and bigoted or even outright white supremacists who sincerely believe that anyone who is not straight, white, and Christian SHOULD face discrimination and persecution.
Sad, but true.
This is somehow the America we live in.Watch the video below via BBC:Featured image via Chris Jackson/Getty Images