The race card thing is getting old fast The Austin County Sheriff s Office released the dash camera video of a July 14 traffic stop of State Representative Garnet Coleman Tuesday to refute claims Coleman made last week about being disrespected and treated like a child.
Coleman, as the chair of the Committee on County Affairs, held a hearing last Thursday in Austin as the first public inquiry into the arrest and death of Sandra Bland in Waller County.
In that hearing, Coleman recounted his own history of being pulled over in traffic stops and gave this account of an I-10 traffic stop that happened just two weeks ago.
He talked to me like I was a child, he said of the sheriff s deputy who pulled him over for speeding.
He was so rude and nasty.
Even when he found out I was a legislator, he became more rude and nasty.
And I didn t understand why this guy was continuing to go on and on and treat me like a child.
And basically like I m saying is treat me like a boy.
I want to be very clear about that, Coleman said in the committee hearing.
Via: Breaking 911KHOU The Texas Municipal Police Association, the Harris County Deputies Organization, the Houston Police Officers Union and the Dallas Police Union all issued demands for Coleman to apologize for his fabrication of the events in the traffic stop.
Sheriff Brandes asked Coleman to apologize for his remarks about the sheriff s deputy.
Instead, Coleman seemed to double down on the race card boy word.
They may not have [thought it was rude], Coleman told KHOU.
But they weren t sitting in my seat.
And, if you know the history of my people, you know that being treated like a child or a boy is not something that we accept very well.
The Houston Police Officers Union (HPOU) issued a strong rebuke to Coleman.
Our organization has supported Representative Coleman during his tenure in the Texas Legislature, however, since Representative Coleman refuses to own up to the fact that his statements in committee regarding the stop were in fact not true and completely out of line, we have no choice but to discontinue our support of him.
Via: Weasel Zippers Black Democratic Texas State Rep Claims Mistreatment By Police During Traffic Stop, Video Shows Anything But