After GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump attacked the family of a fallen U.S. soldier, a well-deserved backlash ensued.
Khizr Khan delivered a powerful speech criticizing Trump at last week s Democratic National Convention.
That s all it took for Donald to unleash angry tweets and interviews directed at Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the parents of Humayun Khan, 27, who ordered those around him to take cover as soon as he saw a taxi barreling through the gates of his base in Baquba, Iraq in 2004.
As he approached the vehicle, it exploded.The Veterans of Foreign Wars released a strongly worded statement against Trump on Monday for his comments about Ghazala Khan, calling the Republican nominee out of bounds, according to Politico.
Election year or not, the VFW will not tolerate anyone berating a Gold Star family member for exercising his or her right of speech or expression, said VFW leader Brian Duffy in the statement.Trump said during an interview on ABC on Sunday that Ghazala Khan wasn t allowed to have anything to say in an attempt to attack her faith.
Mrs. Khan said she didn t speak because she felt emotional talking about her son s death.
There are certain sacrosanct subjects that no amount of wordsmithing can repair once crossed, Duffy continued to say in the statement.
Giving one s life to nation is the greatest sacrifice, followed closely by all Gold Star families, who have a right to make their voices heard.
In addition to the VFW, Gold Star families released a letter blasting Trump.
The Gold Star families called Trump s comments repugnant, and personally offensive.
When you question a mother s pain, by implying that her religion, not her grief, kept her from addressing an arena of people, you are attacking us, the letter added.
When you say your job building buildings is akin to our sacrifice, you are attacking our sacrifice.
This isn t Trump s first attack on a war hero.
He mocked John McCain for being a prisoner of war and now the Arizona Senator has responded to Trump s attack on the parents of Humayun Khan.Featured image via Gustavo Caballero/Getty.