We are witnessing the slow death of political correctness in America.
Americans are waking up to this nonsense and we will no longer stand for the Left defining what is acceptable behavior or choosing the words we are allowed to use.
This woman did the right thing by exposing these Walmart workers in GA. We must not retreat or roll over for these social justice warriors.
We must expose them every time they attempt to control the narrative.
We are in a war for our constitutional rights.
We must never back down from this fight Three Walmart workers in McDonough, Ga., refused to decorate a thin blue line cake for a police officer s retirement party because they said it was racist.A number of my Georgia readers alerted me to the story and on Saturday night I spoke directly with the police officer s daughter.
She asked that I not divulge her name and I ve agreed to do that.I was so shocked, she told me.
I didn t know what to do or say or anything.
I was trying not to lose my temper or make a scene.
For the record, Walmart has confessed that most of her allegations are true.The police officer s daughter went to the Walmart on Willow Drive on Sept. 22 to order a flag for her father s retirement party.
He was leaving the force after 25-years on the job.She showed the bakers a photograph of the police officer s flag the black and white version of Old Glory with a blue line.Order Todd s I m a Gun-toting, Bible-clinging, Patriotic American shirt It repels liberals!
One of the bakers told me the design could be perceived as racist and nobody feels comfortable decorating the cake, the police officer s daughter told me.As an alternative, she suggested a chocolate-frosted cake with a horizontal, frosted blue line.But that design was also rejected by Walmart s cake decorator.
She said, I don t feel comfortable doing this, the cop s daughter told me.
I asked her, Is there something wrong with cops?
After being rejected for a third time, the 21-year-old told the bakers, I ll find another bakery, thank you.
She was much more polite than I would ve been, folks.
I was disappointed, she told me.
I go to Walmart all the time at least once a week spend hundreds of dollars.
I just wanted to make my dad a cake to show how much i appreciated him.
A friend of the family posted an item about the incident on Facebook and it wasn t long before the Walmart store manager called the police officer s wife and daughter and apologized.
He said he was so sorry, the daughter told me.
He offered to make the cake free of charge and he gave me a $50 gift card.
Todd Starnes, FOX News