This week, black men died at the hands of police in two unjustified and high profile scenarios.
The murders of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and of Philando Castile in Falcon Heights, Minnesota, have once again reminded us that there is an unequal system of justice in America.
If you re white, you re arrested and charged.
If you re not, something as simple as jaywalking can be a death sentence.Video of the Sterling shooting shows officer pinning the 37-year-old man to the ground before he was shot multiple times in the back and chest.
As for Castile, well, we saw him die live on Facebook after his girlfriend turned on her camera following the shooting.
They had been pulled over for a busted tail light, and the 32-year-old was shot as he was reaching for his ID and wallet as police requested.
Castile had a gun on him he licensed to carry a concealed weapon but this incident serves as more evidence that the Second Amendment is a whites-only thing.Both of these men, like Michael Brown and Eric Garner, John Crawford and the numerous black men gunned down by racist police, clearly did not deserve to die.
It s not like they drew a weapon and fired at police.
Who would do that, anyway?
Oh, right.Ray, 62, was arrested peacefully by police after he innocently stood on the roadside in Wake County, North Carolina, as he pointed his shotgun at passing cars.
You know, exercising his Second Amendment rights and all that.
When Sheriff s Deputy D.R.
Farmerstopped to question him, Ray became belligerent and pointed the shotgun at the officer.
This alone would give Farmer reason to, at minimum, draw his weapon.
But it gets worse.
The deputy luckily grabbed the barrel and pushed him back, Sheriff Donnie Harrison said.
The man says, I got something for you and reached in his pocket and came back with a pistol.
Farer pushed the .22-caliber handgun aside, but not before Ray was able to fire off a shot.
Luckily, nobody got hurt.
That s the good thing.
God was looking out for us, Harrison said.
(Ray) was very fortunate that he didn t get shot, very fortunate that anybody didn t get shot.
Why didn t he get shot?
What could possibly be the difference between this man and those who were so recently outright murdered by police?Ray s defense attorney and neighbor says mental health is the issue, but police point out that alcohol was a factor as well.
Ray was drunk at the time of the incident.
After his arrest, Ray continued to be uncooperative with police, snatching cameras off the wall of an interrogation room.He has been charged with two counts of assault on a law enforcement officer with a firearm and one count of injury to personal property because of the camera incident.At no point was he beaten, shot, deprived of food and water, or denied medical care.
It s almost as though he s considered a human being with rights which is treatment above and beyond what many African-Americans receive from police across the nation.
Even if they are lucky enough to live long enough to see the inside of a jail cell, as we noticed with Sandra Bland, death is always lurking around the corner and it s usually wearing a badge.Watch a report on the arrest below:Featured image via screengrab