Bill Maher LOVES ripping Donald Trump apart, and Friday night s Real Time was no exception.
As the media has recently been fawning over the Republican frontrunner s new politically correct persona and celebrating the fact that it has been a few days since Trump has disrespected or offended anyone, Maher took it upon himself to set the record straight.During his show, Maher was joined by his panelists, author Charles Cooke, Leslie Stahl of 60 Minutes, and CNN s Van Jones, to talk about Trump s new public image a move that Trump s newly hired senior aide, Paul Manafort, was behind.
It seems that Trump s campaign has finally caught on to the fact that the candidate s vulgar, brash personality is working against him as the general election approaches, and Manafort has been trying to get the business mogul to tone it down.
Since Trump has been playing nice lately, the conservative media hasn t stopped gushing over how presidential he is.Remarking on Manafort s comments that Trump has merely been playing a part this whole time, Stahl wondered, They re trying to tell the [Republican] party that he s going to change, that they re gonna fix his personality he can t do that.
How s he gonna change his personality?
Maher was quick to jump in and made a hilarious connection between Trump and dichotomous comedian Andrew Dice Clay, who switches identities whenever he feels like it.
Imitating what Trump might sound like, Maher said: He doesn t have to.
Sometimes he goes I m done being Andrew.
I m Dice now.
And then Trump puts on the leather jacket: Hey, hickory dickery dock / a Mexican went up the fucking clock!
You can watch Maher s entire takedown below:Manafort s comments about Trump s personality are reminiscent of something Trump endorser and former candidate Ben Carson said about The Donald when he was explaining why he was supporting him.
Completely leaving out the part where Trump bribed him with a job, Carson said: First of all, I ve come to know Donald Trump over the last few years.
He s actually a very intelligent man who cares deeply about America.
There are two different Donald Trumps.
There s the one you see on the stage and there s the one who s very cerebral, sits there and considers things very carefully.
Hardly believable.
Trump s team can try to repaint Trump s personality all they want, but they ll never be able to hide his ignorance, intolerance and bigotry.
Featured image via Vince Bucci / Getty Images