Donald Trump is doubling down on his bizarre claim that the only way that he can lose in Pennsylvania this October is because of electoral fraud.
Trump began this narrative last week in Ohio where he said that he is afraid the election is going to be rigged.
We re going to watch Pennsylvania.
Go down to certain areas and watch and study and make sure other people don t come in and vote five times, Trump said at a rally in Altoona, Pennsylvania Friday.
If you do that, we re not going to lose.
The only way we can lose, in my opinion I really mean this, Pennsylvania is if cheating goes on.
That claim was made despite the fact that Hillary Clinton has maintained a very comfortable lead over Trump in the polls.Since then, Trump has doubled down on his claims that the election will be stolen from him in Pennsylvania.
Trump s campaign has gone so far as to try and recruit supporters to act as election observers.
Normally, recruiting election overseers wouldn t be too out of the ordinary for a campaign to do.
However, traditionally campaigns hire or recruit people with a legal background to do the work.
Trump s campaign is calling for anyone and everyone to answer his call to action.
We have to call up law enforcement, and we have to have the sheriffs and the police chiefs and everybody watching, Trump said on Friday.Calling in an army of your supporters, who will likely have no legal background, to hang out at the polls with a battalion of armed police officers sounds far more like voter intimidation than a move towards ensuring protecting voter s rights.
Given the scenes of carnage that have come out of Trump s rallies, this move is almost sure to set up Pennsylvania s polling locations as the backdrops to a few riots.
I am going to go ahead and predict that should events unfold that way; it ll be areas with minority populations that are targeted.Trump cannot give any evidence as to why there will be election fraud in Pennsylvania.
How could there be?
The election hasn t even occurred yet.
He is spouting unfounded nonsense because he is desperate.
Like a wounded animal trapped in a corner, Trump is flailing.
As nice as it is to see Trump squirm, unfortunately, it is the people of Pennsylvania and the rest of the United States who will be scratched by the tiny nails on his tiny hands.Featured image from Jeff Swensen/Getty Images