Last weekend, news feeds everywhere were filled with the horrific story of a beautiful silverback gorilla being shot after a 3-year-old boy fell into his enclosure.Anyone who s a parent knows that kids are very slippery.
They know that in the blink of an eye, a child can become distracted and run off.
Still, rather than blame the Cincinnati Zoo for possibly overreacting, people were blaming the parents.
Some of those people, including Fox News, though, are taking that line of blame to a whole new level.
They are adding a solid dose of racism.Here s a video of the gorilla with the boy, decide for yourself if the gorilla was trying to hurt or save the boy:The boy and his parents are African-American a detail which would be meaningless if it weren t for Fox News and racists across the nation.
Many people blamed the parents, and the mother, who was at the zoo with her boy and other children, certainly deserves her share of it, but Fox and their classy followers are blaming the father, who wasn t even there.
The father, it appears, served time in prison.The Daily Mail, which is one of Great Britain s conservative, lowbrow newspapers, reported that the boy s father, Deonne Dickerson, has a criminal history.
He was convicted in 2006 for drug trafficking.
He was also charged with numerous other charges, including criminal trespass, disorderly conduct and kidnapping.The Daily Mail does note, however, that Dickerson has appeared to turn his life around.
That didn t stop Fox News from running with the story, though.
The father has a long rap sheet, including drugs and kidnapping charges, Fox News host Abby Huntsman noted at the beginning of the program.
Some say the parents need to be charged, co-host Ainsley Earhardt later told wildlife expert Grant Kemmerer, bringing up the dad s past criminal history who wasn t even there at the zoo at the time.
The father wasn t even there.
Think about that.
Fox News is advocating criminally charging a man who wasn t even there.
The fact is, Fox and their viewers won t be happy until all black men are behind bars.Here s the video:Featured image via video screen capture