When Fox News goon Jesse Watters went to Chinatown in New York to put together an incredibly racist segment filled with Asian stereotypes, it caused national outrage.Now Watters is getting a taste of his own medicine thanks to comedian Jason Selvig.During Watter s racist report, he talked to residents who didn t speak much English, asked them if they know karate and if they can take care of North Korea for us.
Fox News, Bill O Reilly, and Watters disrespected and insulted the Asian-American community that day, and they have still not issued an apology despite Asian-American organizations raining hell on them with statement after statement condemning the segment.So Selvig treated Watters the same way.Selvig approached Watters on the street and gave him a hug before saying hello to him using a racist Asian accent.
Pretty good, right?
Selvig asked Watters.
It s racist like you like.
A confused Watters then realizes what s going on and tries to run away like a coward.
But Selvig continues mocking him by pitching future segments Watters should consider for his next man-on-the-streets bit.
Just a bunch of black people eating fried chicken?
Selvig suggests.
How about just Mexicans eating tacos?
Selvig then suggests a segment on gay people, but then remembers that Watters already did that and shows some footage of it.
Oh just like, call all Muslims terrorists, Selvig continues before nixing the idea because I guess you guys already do.
Selvig tells Watters that he ll leave him alone if he plugs his movie Undecided.
When Watters avoids doing so, Selvig takes matters into his own hands and declares that it s endorsed by Fox News.Here s the video via Facebook:Jesse Watters and Fox News should think twice before doing such a segment ever again.
In fact, they should just not do these kinds of segments at all.
But if they do, perhaps comedians from all over can approach Watters on the streets and mock him.
It s called karma, and Watters just got a taste of it.Featured Image: Screenshot