Jared Kushner, one of Trump s senior advisers and his son-in-law, has come under FBI scrutiny in the Russia investigation so the probe is hitting close to home for the current occupant of the White House.
Officials say that the probe does not mean that Kushner is suspected of a crime or that they intend to charge him, but investigators believe Trump s son-in-law has significant information relevant to their inquiry.Earlier this month it was revealed that law enforcement agents are scrutinizing a senior White House adviser who is close to the president as a person of interest in their investigation of Trump s Russian influence scandal.
That person was not named at the time but many speculated that it was Kushner, however, with so many in Trump s administration having ties to Russia, it could have been anyone.
That speculation was confirmed on Thursday.One White House staffer responded to the news, saying that Kushner is f*cked.
WH staffer upon learning from NBC News that Jared Kushner is under FBI investigation in the Russia probe: "Jared is so fucked.
"#JailJared Jon Cooper (@joncoopertweets) May 25, 2017As The Washington Post notes, it isn t just about collusion with Russia in the 2016 election in regards to Kushner.
It goes beyond Kushner meeting with Russian officials after Trump was elected.In addition to possible coordination between the Kremlin and the Trump campaign to influence the 2016 presidential election, investigators are also looking broadly into possible financial crimes but the people familiar with the matter, who were not authorized to speak publicly, did not specify who or what was being examined.But Russia is a problem, too, for Kushner who is usually very quiet and sits silently in meetings next to his father-in-law.Kushner met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and then with Sergey Gorkov, the head of Vnesheconombank, which faced U.S. sanctions after Russia s annexation of Crimea.Trump will be raging about leaks any minute now, but this highlights the dysfunctionality of White House.
Trump believes, even though he s filed for bankruptcy multiple times and hasn t paid some of his own contractors, that he s a brilliant manager and businessman, but his own staffers are at battle with each other.
The alleged president aids that by throwing them under the bus as he considers staff shake-ups at the White House.
Adding to that, after Trump denies something, he is defended on TV by his staff, then he implicates himself later on Twitter, thus denying his own White House s defense.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.