Trump has wasted absolutely no time letting some of our allies know what he really thinks of them.
On a phone call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, he went off about a pledge the U.S. made to accept 1,250 refugees from a detention center in Australia.
There are also rumors floating around that he threatened to send troops to Mexico if they don t get a handle on the border situation.While speaking to Mexico s president, Enrique Pena Nieto, last Friday, he allegedly told Nieto to control Mexico s bad hombres, or else we would send troops in to do it for him.
The Associated Press first reported on an excerpt someone in the White House gave them of the phone call s transcript: You have a bunch of bad hombres down there, Trump told Pena Nieto, according to the excerpt given to AP.
You aren t doing enough to stop them.
I think your military is scared.
Our military isn t, so I just might send them down to take care of it.
Both the White House and Pena Nieto are denying that the call went this way, but a Mexican news outlet published something similar to what the AP has, and even said Trump was humiliating Pena Nieto.
If it is, indeed, true that Trump said these words, then he seriously just cut down and threatened one of our neighbors with military action, or worse, invasion.
Which would be the next logical step seeing as how he s done everything else he can to piss Mexico off.With Australian Prime Minister Turnbull, who was trying to confirm that we d honor our pledge to accept refugees, Trump said, This is the worst deal ever, and accused Turnbull of trying to send the next Boston bombers to us.
He also blasted Turnbull about how the deal was going to kill him politically, because that s really what matters to him.
Actually doing his job?
Meh.Australia is one of our closest allies and Trump not only tore into him, it sounds like he hung up on Turnbull, too, well before the call was scheduled to end.We ve fought alongside, and received support from, Australia in the Middle East.
They are not an ally we want to alienate, and yet, here Trump is, working as hard as he possibly can to do just that until they fall in line with what he wants.He also spent part of the call bragging about his inauguration numbers really?
He s still not over that?Anybody who thought Trump would calm the hell down after winning the election, and actually treat foreign leaders with the dignity and respect of everyone else, was sorely mistaken.
He uses Twitter to berate anyone with whom he has a disagreement why would he treat foreign leaders any differently?When he s finished bullying the entire world, we won t have any allies left (except maybe Russia).Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images