Apparently, conservatives do not know what a dictionary is, much less how to read one.In the reality created by conservatives in their narrow minds, facts are lies, lies are facts, and words have different definitions.Donald Trump threw a temper tantrum on Twitter over CNN s coverage of him and actually had the gall to call his election win a landslide.
.
@CNN is so embarrassed by their total (100%) support of Hillary Clinton, and yet her loss in a landslide, that they don t know what to do.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016During a panel discussion on CNN on Monday, a Trump supporter repeatedly claimed that Donald Trump won the election by a landslide even though he got nowhere near the electoral vote totals of President Obama and lost the popular vote by more than 2 million votes to Hillary Clinton.Paris Dennard s ridiculous claim forced CNN host Don Lemon to humiliate him on the air.
It s also false for Trump to say that the electoral college vote was a landslide.
It was certainly an upset, but it was far from a landslide.
You go back to 1980, he had a smaller margin than the Reagan elections, George H. W. Bush, Barack Obama s two elections he tops only George W. Bush s two narrow wins.
Can he call this a landslide?
Why is he calling this a landslide?
It s not a landslide, he got way more than most people thought, but you can t really call this a landslide.
Dennard responded by repeatedly changing the definition of the word landslide to mean simply beating Hillary Clinton.
But Lemon would have none of it.
You re changing the definition of landslide?
Lemon replied.
You can say he did better because he won, but can you call something a landslide when it s not actually a landslide?
Is that what you re doing?
It wasn t a landslide, Paris.
A landslide is only a landslide when it s the definition of a landslide.
That s not the definition of a landslide.
That s you changing the definition of a landslide.
Dennard s ignorance forced Bakari Sellers to burst out in laughter while Kayleigh McEnany could only close her eyes in embarrassment.Here s the video via YouTube.As Lemon pointed out, Donald Trump definitely did NOT win by a landslide.
In fact, he may not have even won at all if recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania flip the vote in favor of Hillary Clinton.Featured image via screenshot