One really has to wonder why Carly Fiorina is still running for president.
She s a failed CEO, a failed senate candidate, and seemingly just an awful human being.
People haven t been drawn to her as a candidate, so much so, in fact, that s she s been booted down to the undercard junior debate, which is basically just a pity party for people who haven t realized no one likes them yet.
All the candidates in the junior debate really should realize they, in no way, have a shot at winning, do themselves and the rest of the nation a favor, and drop out.However, there they still are.
They re still there saying the stupid things that have made them unpopular in the first place, and clearly showing America why they shouldn t be in any sort of leadership role.During the most recent junior debate, Carly Fiorina decided that she would attack Hillary Clinton s marriage with former President Bill Clinton.
She said: Unlike another woman in this race, I actually love spending time with my husband.
That s a pretty awful and unnecessary thing to say about another candidate, and just seems like a pathetic, weird attempt at trying to diminish Hillary.Noticing this bizarre statement by Fiorina was MSNBC s Chris Matthews, and he held Fiorina to task asking her to explain herself.
Matthews asked Fiorina if she thinks the Clintons have a real marriage.
And every time Matthews tried to get her to answer, the failed HP head would reply, and awkwardly repeat: They ve been married for a really long time.
Then, Fiorina lost her damn mind and launched a verbal assault on the MSNBC host: There are so many other things we could talk about like the fact that Mrs. Clinton wants to go to the White House she s qualified for the big house She should be prosecuted.
She has not been prosecuted for things that took a great warrior out of office, David Petraeus So let s talk about that, Chris.
Let s talk about how amazing it is that this woman, that cannot be trusted, who should have been prosecuted by now, has just raked in more money than any single candidate.
Wow, bitter, party of one.Actually, Carly, if you re going to talk about a woman who has done horrible things in her past, let s talk about all the jobs you shipped overseas.
Let s talk about how you took a once thriving company and lead it down the sh*tter.
How about that?
Let s not hyperbolize and make false accusations against Hillary Clinton, all while throwing some backhanded jab at her marriage.
That makes you look no better than the mean girl in Middle School who is pissed she got picked last for dodgeball.
Grow up, and while you re at it, drop out.
.
@CarlyFiorina and @hardball_chris get into a testy exchange over @HillaryClinton.
https://t.co/NsOHREczLI MSNBC (@MSNBC) January 15, 2016 Video/Featured image: Twitter