The Supreme Court did something amazing on Monday.
They decided, with a unanimous conscience, that the principle of one person one vote was the way to go in a Democratic Republic like the United States.Still reeling from the disastrous decision that struck down the Voting Rights Act in 2013, Republicans sought to double down on their assaults on voting rights through racist gerrymandering.Today, the Supreme Court gave Republicans a well-deserved F-You when they rejected the GOP s appeal to a lower Virginia court ruling that overturned the redistricted map.Sending the case back to the lower court, the Supreme Court basically said they got it right, and see no reason to consider an appeal, thus giving Democrats (and the people of Virginia) the fairness they deserved and were robbed of in 2012.Two years ago, a federal court struck down Virginia s newly drawn congressional maps because the drawers packed tens of thousands of black voters into an already heavily black, heavily Democratic congressional district.
The redrawing, which heavily favored Republicans, allowed the GOP to win 8 out of the state s 11 congressional districts, even though President Obama won the state by three points and the electorate was down ticket.While it won t capture a majority of the 8 seats held by Republicans, the decision will certainly be turning the 4th Congressional District blue.
Currently represented by Randy Forbes, the district will go from having a 48 percent Democratic electorate to a rightful 60 percent.With Democrats aiming to take back the House and keep the swing state of Virginia blue in November, this decision has come at a very good time.Looks like another gerrymandering, redistricting ploy from the Republicans to steal the elections has gone down in flames.
Last year, the Supreme Court smacked down Republicans in Arizona when they tried to pull the same shenanigans.
With Arizona s booming Hispanic and Latino populations, GOP control is on the verge of collapsing.Republicans want to hold onto absolute power, and they are seeing it slip away from them.
So they try to cheat to win.
And sometimes the Supreme Court does he right thing and blocks them from doing just that.Since it wasn t picked up, that means at least 5 Justices (out of eight) or more said no.
If Scalia was still alive, I wonder if the case would have been picked up.
And had it been picked up, how would the Court have decided it?Maybe Republicans shouldn t be so quick to turn down a moderate Merrick Garland confirmation.
Not that he outcome would have been any different in their favor.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images