Sometimes all you can do is surrender to Twitter.Florida Sen. Marco Rubio probably started out his day Tuesday thinking about paid family leave, child care tax credits and other deep issues.
But when Twitter went wild over an awkward photo of him leaning in for a hug with Ivanka Trump when she arrived for a Capitol Hill meeting, Rubio was smart enough to play along.The photo, taken by an Associated Press congressional reporter with an iPhone, appears to show Trump declining to hug Rubio back as the two greet one another just outside the Capitol.Twitter users dissected the seemingly awkward moment endlessly.
They compared Rubio to Ralph Wiggum from The Simpsons when he doesn t get a Valentine s Day card, and to Dr.
Evil from Austin Powers asking his son for a hug.
NYPMarco Rubio responded to critics on Twitter by mocking the awkward hug in a series of hilarious tweets.
Enjoy!Just left Intel comm & informed meeting 2day with @IvankaTrump blowing up twitter over alleged failed hug!
Investigating.
Will respond soon Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017We believe we have our own unclassified photographic evidence that will shed greater details on this incident.
Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017We are also attempting to acquire multi-angle video which we believe will provide greater insight into this important matter.
Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017If you were filming at the Senate carriage entrance today between 11:20-11:25 am we are seeking your assistance with an active investigation Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017Based on review of evidence & my own recollection, have concluded no hug was even attempted & press covfefe of alleged failed hug is false Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017BREAKING NEWS: Additional photo from moments right after today's alleged failed hug provide new details to this developing story.
pic.twitter.com/TFyhB2cQuM Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017New photo emerges providing more insight into alleged failed hug.
(Faces blurred for security purposes) pic.twitter.com/GzSLe3JD3I Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) June 20, 2017Even Ivanka joined in on the fun on Twitter telling followers that Marco is an excellent hugger and that the story that he s an awkward hugger that was making the rounds on social media was Fake news!
Fake news!
Marco is an excellent hugger https://t.co/Dk7XXRQlX8 Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) June 20, 2017Ivanka took it a step further with her next tweet where she used phrases like anonymous sources and talked about the planned and alleged hug to which she had no comment .
Ivanka was clearly taking a swipe at the media who regularly uses words like anonymous sources and alleged in their fake news hit pieces on her father.Anonymous sources say @marcorubio planned the alleged failed hug.
I have no comment (but I would have hugged him anyway! )
https://t.co/TChrqWsL4D Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) June 20, 2017