Christopher O Kroley was a co-worker to Caroline Nosal.
Christopher wanted Caroline as his girlfriend, but Caroline said no.
Two days later, Christopher murdered her in the parking lot where they used to work, saying it was easy to kill her because she ruined his life.It wasn t just saying no one time.
Caroline had to deal with harassment from Christopher over a period of time where he wouldn t take no for an answer.
It got so bad that Caroline had to report his behavior to management, which in turn got Christopher suspended then eventually fired.Christopher admitted that he bought the gun right after he was fired, but waited a day before murdering Caroline because he wanted to practice using the gun.
He shot her three times in the parking lot of the grocery store where they used to work together, when he found out her work schedule from a co-worker.
After the murder, Christopher texted a co-worker, I killed Caroline and I m about to kill myself, so don t be surprised when I don t respond anymore.
Madison police officer Michele Walker got onto the scene quickly though, and exchanged gunfire with the murderer, resulting in him being taken alive instead of letting him finish his plan.This entire situation could have been prevented, if we only could take our gun laws seriously.
A former girlfriend of Christopher said that he had a history of severe mental health issues, and attempted suicide once before in 2014.
There is no excuse for a person with a history of severe mental illness and a suicide attempt being able to procure a firearm so easily.
Not only did he get one, but he got one as if he was buying a loaf of bread at the local mini-mart.
While it s true that a mandatory waiting period may not have stopped this, it certainly couldn t have hurt anything.Republicans keep squawking that we have to address the mental health issues in this country, but their address it but cutting it is yielding no results.
If this gun was purchased with a background check, the mental health history was not flagged in the report.
This is courtesy of the NRA.
They literally do everything they can to block the things for which they keep calling.
Perhaps the real spot we need to improve mental health is among Republicans, and then it would trickle down from there.Featured image from Huffington Post