A 24-year-old that set fire to a fountain on Wednesday morning in Washington, D.C. has been arrested.
This very same fountain, however, is home to a memorial for a murdered Muslim teen, Nabra Hassanen.The Washington D.C. fire department responded to a call about a brush fire inside Dupont Circle around 8:30 a.m., a spokesman said.
When firefighters arrived, they swiftly put out a small fire inside a fountain there.At around 10:00 a.m., according to a police report from the Metropolitan Police Department, officers arrested Jonathan Soloman, of South Carolina, on charges of attending or kindling bonfires.
Huffington Post reports that the police emphasize that the incident was not a hate crime, as it had no connection to a memorial at the same fountain.A spokeswoman for U.S. Park Police told HuffPost that the memorial does not appear to have been specifically targeted.
Yet, a video posted by Fox5 DC on Wednesday shows some charred flowers and what appears to be a burned painting.
Somehow though, this particular fountain, of all locations, was chosen for a fire.
But it s not related at all to the fact that this poor teen was a Muslim.
Not a hate crime, Sergeant Anna Rose said, explaining that there was no indication [Soloman] was there to desecrate that memorial.
To add even more fuel to the fire, Soloman was released from custody on Wednesday with a court date.Huffington Post adds that William Miller, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney s office in Washington D.C., says Soloman will likely have his first court appearance on Thursday, when charging documents further explaining the crime will become public.Yes, do shed some light on how this was not a hate crime.
How it was random chance that this guy started a fire in this particular fountain where hundreds gathered to mourn and lay posters and flowers by the fountain for the disgusting crime against Hassanen.But wait, there s more!
22-year-old Darwin Martinez Torres, accused of murdering Hassanen was arrested and has been charged with murder.
He does not, however, face hate crime charges, either.Is this all, really, truly random chance?
Was Hassanen really targeted outside of the fact that she was Muslim?
Was the fire in her memorialized fountain really random?Featured photo via Calla Kessler/The Washington Post via Getty Images