It s beginning.
While some dismissed Donald Trump s campaign promises to ban Muslims from entering the country, dismantle our country s healthcare, build a giant goddamn motherfucking wall to keep brown people from entering the country, and every other horrific thing you can think of and more as just words he was using to get stupid people to vote for him, he meant every single one of them and he s been proving it.One of President Asterisk s first acts was an executive order that is the beginning of his efforts to dismantle Obamacare.
He followed up by signing away our environment and authorizing the building of two controversial pipelines, stripping federal funds from international health organizations that so much as mention abortion (in an order conveniently following millions of women lining the streets to protest him).
He then withdrew us from a major trade agreement without a single thought about the repercussions, began funneling our tax dollars into his stupid wall, ordered a weekly report on crimes committed by aliens and banned Muslims from seven countries he hates from entering the country.Trump even authorized the building of new camps in which undocumented immigrants could be concentrated for a limited time, of course until they could be deported (I feel like there s a term for these things, but I can t quite place it).
The Washington Post reports: The presidential directives signed Wednesday aim to create more detention centers, add thousands of Border Patrol agents and withhold federal funds from what are known as sanctuary cities, which do not comply with federal immigration laws.
One order calls for the immediate construction of a physical wall.
In short, if you re a member of this group that Trump considers undesirable, you ll be sent to one of these camps and any city that might otherwise harbor you will face extreme penalties for doing so.
We are going to restore the rule of law in the United States, Trump told a crowd of DHS employees Wednesday.
Beginning today, the United States gets control of its borders.
Trump also vowed to investigate alleged voter fraud in blue states particularly in urban (that s right-wing slang for black ) areas so he can prove once and forgodamnall that he actually won the popular vote, because he really is that petty.It hasn t even been a week since Trump took office and he has already made it clear that he has declared war on the American people.
The question remains: just how much are we going to take of this bullshit?Make no mistake about it: people will die in Trump s camps and his supporters will applaud.This.
Is.
Not.
OK.Featured image via Getty Images (Pool)