By nearly all accounts, Donald Trump s response to the worst mass shooting in American history has been very, very bad.
Never one to let a tragedy get in the way of self-glorification, Trump has come across as cold-hearted, moronic, and narcissistic often all at the same time.
Now he can add fake to the list as well.In the early moments after the attack, Trump began by sending out a vague reaction to the attack claiming he was thinking of the victims, only to follow it up with a random, unrelated smear directed at Hillary Clinton.
Since then, he s released a torrent of anti-Muslim bigotry.
He s congratulated himself for being right about Muslims.
He never once mentioned the heartbreaking fact that the attack was in an iconic gay night club and most of the victims were LGBTQ.
Nor has he mentioned that this appears to be as much an anti-gay hate crime as an Islamic terror attack.Oh and he also stole a reporter s tweet and passed it off as his own so as to not have to share the spotlight with someone else even for one second.CNN s Brian Stelter caught him red handed.It looks like Trump flagrantly copy & pasted @SebGorka's unsourced 2:03pm tweet, tweaked it, and posted at 2:52pm pic.twitter.com/aAHWUHvvnH Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) June 12, 2016As is immediately clear, Trump flagrantly copy and pasted reporter Sebastian Gorka s tweet and made it his own.
Why didn t he just retweet Gorka if he wanted to pass along the information?
Because then he wouldn t get the retweets and likes that he so desperately craves.Throughout the day, Trump has put on a master class in how not to handle a national tragedy.
He s made the event exclusively about himself.
To contrast Trump s ego, both President Obama and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton have released statements that honor the victims, condemn the attacks, and demonstrate a sensitivity to the startling acts of terror.
In particular, Obama took pains to not lose sight of the victims and their identity something Trump has yet to even mention.This is an especially heartbreaking day for all of our friends, our fellow Americans, who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender.
The shooter targeted a night club where people came together to be with friends, to dance and to sing, and to live.
The place where they were attacked is more than a night club, it is a place of solidarity and empowerment, where people have come together to raise awareness, to speak their minds, and to advocate for their civil rights.
So this is a sobering reminder that attacks on any American, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation, is an attack on all of us, and on the fundamental values of equality and dignity that define us as as country.Compare that to how President Trump would react:Appreciate the congrats for being right on radical Islamic terrorism, I don't want congrats, I want toughness & vigilance.
We must be smart!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 12, 2016 Pathetic doesn t even begin to describe that.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images