On Thursday, 1,200 hundred people attended a community conversation with Bernie Sanders at the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota.
During the event, indigenous people spoke out against the problems facing their community.
The most talked about issue was healthcare.Alex Romero-Frederick says, We ve had relatives that have passed away because of the substandard care at the Rosebud hospital, and as far as having ER available, we live our life like, don t get hurt.
While speaking to the enormous crowd gathered before him and one community member in particular, Sanders said: One of the issues that I feel strongly about is just what you said Evie, promises were made, treaties were signed, and those promises were not kept.
If elected president, we will keep those promises.
Other community members were positively surprised to learn how easy it was to speak with Sanders.
The cool part is he s so personable, and he s not this typical Washington, D.C.-level person that s bigger than you and more important and will talk down to you.
He was on the same level of us, and that s very important to me, said Evie.You can watch a video report from KEVN Black Hills Fox below.Sanders has made helping indigenous communities a major part of his platform.
He has created policy proposals that specifically address the issues that affect indigenous people into his larger reform projects.
Included in those agenda items are policies that specifically address inequality in healthcare, education, police violence, and energy infrastructure.So far in the Democratic primary election, Sanders has received massive amounts of support from indigenous communities.
On his campaign website, it is noted that: Bernie is proud to have earned more than 80 percent of the votes cast in the Meskwaki Settlement near Tama, Iowa.
He was also favored by voters in caucuses on and near reservations in Nevada.
Sanders received a major indigenous shout out last February, when the Indigenous activist, economist, and author Winona LaDuke released a video where she publicly endorsed Sanders.
You can watch the video below.Indigenous people are one of the most neglected groups of people in the U.S. Coverage of the issues that indigenous communities face hardly ever make their way into the media s spotlight.
It is great that there is a candidate out there pushing those issues into that spotlight.South Dakota s primary is scheduled to take place on June 9.Featured image from video screenshot via KEVN