Hillary Clinton has picked up a huge endorsement, and Donald Trump isn t going to like it one bit.Movie star George Clooney professed his support of the former Secretary of State during an exclusive interview with the Guardian.Clooney, who has starred in films such as The Monuments Men, The Perfect Storm, and Tomorrowland among many others, was chatting about his newest film Hail, Caesar!
when he was asked if he would ever consider running for president himself.
I am a Hillary supporter, he declared.
I am doing a fundraiser for her.
And that s a big deal considering the shindig he threw in support of President Obama in 2012 netted $12 million in one night.But Clooney also showed love for Clinton s Democratic rival Bernie Sanders.
I really love Bernie Sanders, and am really glad he is in the debate.
He is forcing the conversation to things that never get talked about in US politics: disparity between the rich and the poor, which is getting worse and worse every day.
However, Clooney went on to say that Sanders focus on that one issue is hurting him in the polls.When it comes to Donald Trump, Clooney is even more blunt.
He s just an opportunist.
Now he s a fascist; a xenophobic fascist, he said.Indeed, Trump s campaign has become a lightning rod for white supremacists and Neo-Nazis who believe the Republican front-runner will make America white again and give racists the absolute freedom to treat people of color and non-Christians like vermin.And this isn t the first time Trump has been labeled a fascist.
Daily Show host Trevor Noah looked at the traits of fascism and revealed that Trump does, in fact, sounds and acts like the perfect fascist, which includes a cult of action, celebrating aggressive masculinity, fear of outsiders, intense nationalism, intolerance of criticism, and resentment of national humiliation.
But Clooney believes that Americans will make the right choice in November, and even quoted Winston Churchill: You can count on Americans to do the right thing after they ve exhausted all the other possibilities.
Let s just hope Americans don t make one more wrong choice before it s too late to do the right thing.Featured image: Wikimedia