Following the mass exodus of Hispanic surrogates from Trump s campaign, Eric Trump is pretty confused.
After all, his dad has been very, very consistent about his plans on immigration, so why would they do this to the saintly candidate?
Eric seems to think that, since nothing has changed, there s no reason for Hispanic advocates to be upset.He really doesn t get it.
In an appearance on Fox & Friends, he actually said: [It] is actually pretty amazing considering the speech was actually very consistent and he has been very, very consistent with his plan.
It s really interesting.
What s interesting is not that Hispanics are now fleeing Trump it s that Eric thinks his consistency should resonate with them.Trump went to Mexico to meet with President Enrique Pe a Nieto after appearing to soften his position on undocumented immigrants.
So is it really any wonder that this return to his angry, heartless, racist stance that Hispanics are the enemy to real Americans feels like a betrayal?One particular surrogate who has worked very hard to convince Latinos to vote for Trump, Jacob Monty, resigned after Trump s speech on Wednesday night.
He laid it all out in his explanation for leaving: I was a strong supporter of Donald Trump when I believed he was going to address the immigration problem realistically and compassionately.
What I heard today was not realistic and not compassionate.
Ramiro Pena, a church pastor in Texas, likewise yanked his support, saying: I am so sorry but I believe Mr. Trump lost the election tonight.
The National Hispanic Advisory Council seems to be simply for optics and I do not have the time or energy for a scam.
Everything Trump does for minority outreach is just for show.
His visit to a black church in Detroit is nothing but a show, too.
He s performing for an audience because that s all he knows how to do.
Being serious about this is an alien concept to him.
Republicans know it and are actually trying to figure out how to reach more white people because they ve given up on Trump ever reaching minorities.
His outreach is too little, too late, and a total lie.Eric here is wearing his blinders a little too tightly.
He hopes that clarifying Trump s message to these guys will turn them around, and he actually voiced the following clueless words: It s very important to us.
If you look at the Hispanic community and the Latino community, they ve largely been left behind in this country.
But his father talking about splitting up families and wasting ungodly amounts of money on a wall and on deportation isn t going to leave these communities further back in the dust?
Har de har har, don t make us laugh too hard.
It hurts.Eric Trump should at least have an idea that a consistent message targeting and alienating a group is just going to consistently piss them off.
Eventually, people get tired of hoping someone will change, and they just walk away.Featured image by Joe Raedle/Getty Images