It s not surprising that Hillary Clinton signs don t last long in tomato red Richardson, Texas, but this is not a normal political year and heated rhetoric and violence have become so commonplace that a family dog might be the victim of a political disagreement.Matt Steadman and his wife are proud Hillary Clinton supporters.
They ve put up yard sign after yard sign after yard sign (three) and each one disappeared almost as fast as they appeared.
That didn t surprise Steadman, who said it was, no big deal.
Then, things changed.
It began with sign stuck under their door that said Hillary for Prison 2016.
Then, their SUV was vandalized with bleach in the gas tank.
The car can t be repaired.
Smelled the inside of my gas tank and there was bleach, said Steadman.
I ve never heard about bleach and gas tanks and cars.
Source: CBS DFWThen things got even worse, much worse.
The Steadman s adorable 2-year-old Shepard mix named Abby got sick.
She started tremoring and she started shaking, I called Beth around 4 and said I think somethings wrong with Abby.
Abby had ingested a neurotoxin and there was nothing the veterinarian could do.
She started tremoring and she started shaking, I called Beth around 4 and said I think somethings wrong with Abby.
Abby didn t make it.Here s the video:The Steadmans don t know for sure that the same people who targeted their signs also targeted their SUV and killed their dog, but it s a pretty logical leap.
They also don t know for sure that these people are Trump supporters, but that is also a pretty logical leap.Trump rallies are turning into a page out of Lord of the Flies.
At any given time, you can hear the audience, spurred on by the GOP candidate, chanting, lock her up and kill her.
Trump himself hinted at Clinton s assassination when he compelled Second Amendment people to do something about Clinton.
In other words, watch for violence, like that that was perpetrated against sweet Abby, to escalate before it gets better.As for the Steadmans, well, the police are dropping the ball.
They aren t investigating.Featured image via video screen capture.