We all know that Donald Trump s skin is very thin.
He is also a narcissist the likes of which the world has never seen on the word leadership stage.
Therefore, the thought of losing the 2016 presidential election has likely not really occurred to him in any real sense.
However, his disastrous debate performance, combined with a huge tilt away from his favor in the polls following a week of chaos that was completely his own doing means that a loss in November is looking more and more likely.
The Donald just cannot take that, though, so he has a new solution in the event of his losing the electon: he just won t accept the result.At the debate, in which Trump seemed to run out of gas and eventually melt down completely, he still nonetheless said he would accept the results should he lose to Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
However, now that it seems that a loss might be something that is looming, Trump is going back on his loss.
According to the New York Times, Trump s assessment is thus:Mr. Trump, aiming to unnerve Mrs. Clinton, even indicated that he was rethinking his statement at their last debate that he would absolutely support her if she won in November, saying: We re going to have to see.
We re going to see what happens.
We re going to have to see.
So, in other words, Trump is sending a dog whistle fog horn to his most ardent, hateful, aggressive, and uneducated supporters that says just what they already believe: if he doesn t win, it was rigged.
This is beyond dangerous, considering that we can never plant the seeds of doubt in the integrity of our electoral system and process.
While we all know that things like Voter ID laws and false accusations of voter intimidation most definitely are aimed at disenfranchising minority voters because they largely tend to vote left, there is absolutely nothing to suggest that anything more nefarious is going on regarding election rigging.Trump s inability to accept that no one not even him wins all the time is downright dangerous.
It cannot be stressed enough that we must trust the result of this election, and every election, no matter how unsatisfied we might be with the outcome.
That means that if folks like me wake up on November 9th to headlines of President Trump, I must accept it, and if I cannot tolerate it, I must move to another country.Trump s supporters must do the same.
They have shown themselves to be violent, paranoid, hateful, and ignorant, though, so it will be no surprise if they refuse to accept any outcome of the 2016 presidential election beyond the one they desire.
This is simply further proof that Donald Trump s candidacy is dangerous.
I shudder to think what will happen if he is actually elected president.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images