Republicans are frothing at the mouth with excitement that Donald Trump could be the rubber stamp president they have been looking for.Paul Ryan has wanted to repeal Obamacare ever since it became law, not because it s a bad law as he and others in the GOP have claimed, but because it s the signature achievement of America s first black president.
And they intend to do so no matter how many millions of Americans are harmed.One particular group of women who would be harmed is women.Women benefit from Obamacare because the law prevents insurance companies from labeling them as a pre-existing condition just for being a woman.
Women can also keep their children on their insurance plan until they reach the age of 26 and get easier access to birth control, which insurance companies are required to cover.One would think Republicans would be all for this last benefit, especially since better access to contraception prevents unwanted pregnancies, therefore reducing the abortion rate.But during an interview with CNN s Jake Tapper, the current Speaker of the House literally refused to confirm whether or not the birth control mandate in Obamacare is safe.
I m not going to get into all the little nitty-gritty details of these things, Ryan said, which drew a sharp rebuke from Tapper.
With all due respect, Tapper began.
I don t know that the average woman of childbearing years out there who relies upon contraception provided by health insurance mandated by the Affordable Care Act, I don t know that she would think that that s just a nitty-gritty detail.
Ryan responded by whining.
You re asking me details about legislation that hasn t been written yet!
Ryan complained.
I m not going to get into hypotheticals about legislation that hasn t even been drafted.
Here s the video via YouTube:In other words, Paul Ryan basically just admitted that Republicans will kill the Obamacare birth control mandate.
He s just too much of a coward to say so because he knows women will be pissed off.Women should be able to have just as much access to birth control as men do.
Men should not be allowed to legislate what women are allowed to do with their bodies, and that includes the decision to use contraception.
But as usual, Republicans intend to wage war on women unlike anything we ve ever seen before.Featured Image: Screenshot