There were many notable moments from last night s presidential debate thanks to Republican nominee Donald Trump, who made it a debate to remember (not necessarily a good thing, in his case).
Not only did Trump imply that he would not accept the election s results if he was defeated by Hillary Clinton, but he once again proved that he has ZERO respect for women when he insulted her on the debate stage.Ironically, this attack came after Trump insisted that no one has more respect for women than I do .
Clinton had been talking about Social Security and Medicare, and Trump jumped in to interrupt so he could call her such a nasty woman.
It was a completely random attack, and the perfect display of Trump s lack of self control and misogyny in action.As soon as it happened, social media exploded with rage as Americans rushed to criticize Trump s blatant disrespect of not only the former Secretary of State, but women everywhere.
It wasn t long before the hashtag #nastywoman was being used far and wide, slamming the business mogul for his sexist outburst.
One response, however, has Trump particularly p*ssed off.
Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.) said it best when he tweeted: Women who disagree with you aren t nasty.
In this case, they are what is known as right.'
TwitterHell yes.
And we all know how much fragile Donald HATES being proven wrong!
More politicians jumped into the conversation on Trump s dangerous attitude toward women while watching the debate.
Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) also came forward to point out how dishonest Trump s remarks about respecting women were.
Her attack was flawless:TwitterIf you look at any interview, footage, etc.
of Trump talking about women before or during his presidential campaign, it is extremely rare that you ll find him saying something nice about them much less respecting them.
Trump has a horrifying long history of degrading, objectifying, insulting and belittling women, as well as a track record of sexually assaulting them.
This man is dangerous for women and he is dangerous for America everything he says and does proves that he cannot and should not be our next President.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images