Someone, at some point in time, made the mistake of telling Ted Cruz that he s a funny impressionist.
If you recall, Cruz previously regaled us with a totally not-funny re-enactment of the Miracle Max scene from The Princess Bride.
Correction: Cruz nearly ruined that scene for all time.
There s something especially repulsive about a squishy-faced right-wing zealot hamfistedly performing a scene from one of the most beloved comedies of our time.And now, he s trying to sully the memory of one of the most beloved presidents in modern history by doing another one of his let s face it really, really awkward, flopsweat inducing impressions.The second place contender for the Republican nomination appeared at a diner in Iowa the other day and unexpectedly broke into his impression of John F. Kennedy.And it sucked.
Sucked, sucked, sucked, sucked.Not only that, but he insisted, JFK would be tarred and feathered and thrown out of the modern Democratic Party.
Um, no.
There s no justification for that, whatsoever.
Once again, Ted Cruz is totally lying.
In many ways, JFK is more liberal than our current Democratic president, and he s absolutely more liberal than the Democratic frontrunner, Hillary Clinton.Cruz continued, You know, JFK said [in JFK voice], Some men see things as they ahhh, and ask why.
I see things that nevah wuhhh, and ask Why not?
STOP!
For the love of all that is holy, can someone please tell Mr. Cruz to never, ever do that again?
Ever?
Along those lines, stop trying to be funny, conservatives.
You can t do it without sounding like Lt. Hauk from Good Morning, Vietnam.The whole thing was made worse by the fact that Cruz was flanked by one of the most extreme Republicans in Congress, Steve King.
Together, they form a Voltron of awfulness both of whom routinely exploit the proud ignorance of their supporters.
I can t even imagine the seismic disaster that would ve occurred if King had launched into a Reagan impression at the same time.
Suddenly the fabric of space and time would ve collapsed and formed a singularity of unfunny that not even light could escape.Again, stop it, senator.
Before you kill the universe.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rj5KczUOAvA]Featured image via video screen grab.