Why a recount only in states that Trump won?Why a recount in Michigan, which is all paper ballot?
@DrJillStein?https://t.co/hXRRg75qPW pic.twitter.com/xEpxFraDoi Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) November 25, 2016 This election, we are not only deciding what kind of world we will have, but whether we will have a world or not going forward, Stein warned, explaining that Clinton s trigger-happy militarism is a mushroom cloud waiting to happen.
Stein blasted Clinton s warmongering that almost singlehandedly brought us the turmoil in Libya and could lead us into a nuclear war if Clinton were elected president.
Hillary brought us Libya almost singlehandedly, Stein explained in a Thursday Fox Business interview.
She continued:And she has said that she will lead the charge with a no-fly zone in Syria, and that basically amounts to a declaration of war against Russia, who is there under international law, having been invited by the sitting government.
Like it or not, Russia has the sanction of international law to be there.
For us to go in and declare a no-fly zone means get ready for war with Russia.
Both of us have 2,000 nuclear weapons on hair trigger alert.
This is the most dangerous moment according to the former president of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, who, two weeks ago, said this is the most dangerous nuclear moment ever.Stein elaborated on this view during a Facebook Live interview with progressive Marc Lamont Hill, who has endorsed Stein over Clinton: In this election, we are not only deciding what kind of world we will have, but whether we will have a world or not going forward, Stein said, adding:Not only in regards to climate, not only in regards to these expanding wars where Hillary has this proven track record of the most pro-conflict military policy as possible, and she s calling for a no-fly zone in Syria, which means we re essentially declaring war on Russia if Hillary gets elected declaring war on Russia at a time when we have 2,000 nuclear weapons between us and the Russians on hair trigger alert.
This is a mushroom cloud waiting to happen.
So it s really important right now for us to stand up and start building a force to do the right thing.Paul Joseph Watson asks another great question for Americans.
Why not count the states Hillary won by a small margin?
:Why is there no recount in states that Hillary won with smaller margins than Trump won PA?
#AuditTheVote pic.twitter.com/qYLw7pK3dv Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) November 25, 2016