The rampant migrant rape and violence is shining a light on the progressive agenda and it s exposing an ugly, reckless ideology that has dominated the EU for decades.
The Left is in a battle to save itself and outside of stabbing themselves 17 times and then blaming the Right, there doesn t seem to be any way out of the mess they ve created.
We recently posted about German citizens demanding rapefugees and economic migrants be gunned down at the border.For many the news fitted the current image of the #Kaltland [Cold Country].
A communication that it would have been better not to have to make , published by the Schwerin local association of Die Linke [The Left, former East German Communist party] on late Tuesday evening on its Facebook page.
According to this, Julian Kinzel, an 18-year-old member of the local Schwerin board was the victim of a knife attack in Wismar on Monday evening.
The three perpetrators beat him down and stabbed their victim around 17 times with a knife, according to a statement from the doctor who treated him , the statement reads.
In the process Kinzel was said to have been insulted as a gay communist pig .
This and the clothing worn by the perpetrators that is typical of the [far-right] scene (Thor Steinar) supports the suspicion that it was a crime with a far-right motivation, said the local chairman Peter Brill.The federal Left party even said the case was one of attempted murder .
We are shocked, party explained on Wednesday on Twitter.
Federal managing director Matthias H hn: The current case proves in a tragic way once again how dangerous and inhuman right-wing extremism is.
Dietmar Bartsch, head of the Left grouping in the federal parliament, condemned the crime in the strongest possible way and explained that the Left would not give up in its fight against right-wing extremism.
Party leader Katja Kipping said: The knife attack is horrific and also an attack on democracy.
Already on Wednesday the speaker of the Rostock police management board, Isabel Wenzel, described the case as somewhat nebulous.
She made reference to the fact that Kinzel only filed a complaint later on Tuesday evening and not personally at a police station, but via the internet.
The hospital at which the young man was treated on Monday also did not report the case to police.
Via: Der TagesspeigelJulian Kinzel warned in a reaction on the Facebook page of the Schwerin Left against further [right-wing] radicalisation: Our answer to hate must be love, to stupidity, reason and to violence, solidarity.
Now the police hace arranged for the student to be subjected to forensic medical examination.
The investigations up to now have come to the conclusion that Kinzel invented the attack.
According to a statement from the Rostock police the type of injuries do not correspond to the sequence of events that has been claimed in the attack.
On the contrary, it is sufficiently probable that Kinzel inflicted the injuries himself.