Judge Orrick in California ruled against President Trump s effort to strip cities of federal funding if they identify themselves as Sanctuary cities that harbor illegals.
President Trump went on a Tweet storm to reply to this egregious overreach :Here we go again!
Another activist judge has shut down an effort by President Trump to protect Americans A President s #1 job!How do we know Judge Orrick of California is an activist?
Well, he raised 200K for Obama: That should tell you all you need to know about this guy except one more HUGE thing:He s the judge who blocked the Planned Parenthood videos:A federal judge late Friday granted a temporary restraining order against the release of recordings made at an annual meeting of abortion providers.
The injunction is against the Center for Medical Progress, the group that has unveiled Planned Parenthood s participation in the sale of organs harvested from aborted children.Judge William H. Orrick, III, granted the injunction just hours after the order was requested by the National Abortion Federation.Orrick was nominated to his position by hardline abortion supporter President Barack Obama.
He was also a major donor to and bundler for President Obama s presidential campaign.
He raised at least $200,000 for Obama and donated $30,800 to committees supporting him.
Read more: The FederalistBRILLIANT LEGAL SCHOLAR AND DEMOCRAT JONATHAN TURLEY HAD THIS TO SAY ON TWITTER:The fact is that sanctuary cities violate our Constitution: CORNELL LAWCALIFORNIA JUDGE BLOCKS TRUMP:A federal judge in San Francisco has blocked a Trump administration order to withhold funding from communities that limit cooperation with U.S. immigration authorities.U.S.
District Judge William Orrick issued the temporary ruling Tuesday in a lawsuit over the executive order targeting so-called sanctuary cities.
The decision will stay in place while the lawsuit moves through court.The Republican president s administration and two California governments that sued over the order disagreed about its scope.San Francisco and Santa Clara County argued that it threatened billions of dollars in federal funding.But an attorney for the Justice Department, Chad Readler, said at a recent court hearing that it applied to a limited set of grants.Some of Judge Orrick s comments are shocking:Judge Orrick said Trump s order by its plain language, attempts to reach all federal grants, not merely the three mentioned at the hearing.
The rest of the order is broader still, addressing all federal funding.
And if there was doubt about the scope of the order, the president and attorney general have erased it with their public comments.
Federal funding that bears no meaningful relationship to immigration enforcement cannot be threatened merely because a jurisdiction chooses an immigration enforcement strategy of which the president disapproves.
Note that once again activist judges use public comments just like they did in the prior block to an executive order.READ MORE: ABC7