Conservatives have set up a fascist professor watchlist website in order to target professors they feel aren t conservative enough.
As professors are teachers, and reality has a liberal bias, it s likely to get pretty extensive.The project, by Turning Point USA, was set up by 22-year-old conservative wonderboy Charlie Kirk, a young man who is clearly frustrated by the lack of reception among his peers for his fascist and anti-American ideals.
The about us section on their website reads, The mission of Professor Watchlist is to expose and document college professors who discriminate against conservative students and advance leftist propaganda in the classroom.
Help us identify, and expose more professors who have demonstrated liberal bias in the classroom.
Donate today!
It s interesting that a group whose favorite slogan is big government sucks!
doesn t understand how supporting the new administration s war on speech is the most intrusive government ever gets.
It s important to remember that when a Republican says something bad about big government, they almost always want to replace it with a rich guy or corporation making the same decisions for you.
They don t care about the public good, only private profit.It s notable that, as a 501(c)3, the purpose of the group should be religious, educational, literary, charitable, or scientific in nature.
There are a couple of other qualifications as well, but the important thing to take away here is that an organization concentrated on smearing individuals for speech they believe is political in nature probably doesn t qualify, and any good citizen should file a complaint with the IRS.
They re abusing the tax code to avoid revealing donors.
If they endorse a candidate or could be construed as campaigning, their tax-exempt status will go out the window.
This is only a step away.
The rest of Turning Point s activities are not any more charitable or less political.Politics isn t enough for Republicans.
They can t win the vote or argue policy they have to gerrymander districts and cheat to win.
They can t keep religion in the churches they need everyone to believe the same way they do.
They can t stomach free speech they have to make war on the press, try to silence opposition, and shut down debate on college campuses.BBC reports:Nearly 150 professors are listed on the website.
The list is searchable by school or name and includes pictures of the university teachers and descriptions of their alleged transgressions, backed up by links to conservative news sites.
Almost all the instances on the website are people who not only oppose what we believe in but are very biased against it and don t present the other side, says Matt Lamb, director of constitutional enforcement and transparency at Turning Point.
We just want students, parents, alumni to know what s going on.
So if an alumni is thinking of donating to a school they may want to know where their money is going, if they believe or agree or disagree with the professor s views.
So far, it looks like students and professors are fighting back.
Names like Jesus and Indiana Jones have been added, with appropriate descriptions of their liberal propaganda and agenda, and the hashtag #trollprofwatchlist trended a few days ago with people posting their troll submissions to the website.
The more that are added, the more confusing and difficult the job of identifying disagreeing professors will be for the fascists.However, while silliness and trolling may temporarily undermine the usefulness of the site, the underlying danger presented cannot be ignored or denied.
This is an age where Republicans have their own media, their own version of the world, and in many ways, their own truth (objectivity be damned!).
This is an age where fake news lists are passed around based on a partisan slant (those of us on the left generally understand when something is fact or opinion the other side, not so much).
This is an age where lists of professors that have ideological disagreements with the authoritarian right wing get their names published online.With Trump s rhetoric, this becomes especially problematic.
There is the potential that such a list could be used not only to deny alumni donations from a school, but actually used by the more rabid of Fuhrer Trump s followers to target these men and women.
Conservatives believe this is a culture war, and they ll do anything to win.Featured image via screen capture