You know, with as many times as conservatives have declared the Hillary Clinton email scandal the end of her political career and the thing that will land her in prison, you d think that there would be something concrete they could use against her.
Unfortunately, there has not been anything yet.
Zip.
Zilch.
Nada.
Not a thing that points to anything criminal in the least.On Saturday, Clinton voluntarily met with the FBI so they could stop wasting time on an investigation into the former First Lady s use of a private email server and move on to actual crimes.
Secretary Clinton gave a voluntary interview this morning about her email arrangements while she was secretary, Clinton spokesman Nick Merrill following the meeting.
She is pleased to have had the opportunity to assist the Department of Justice in bringing this review to a conclusion.
Saturday evening, CNN s Senior Producer, Edward Mejia Davis, dropped some inside info on Twitter namely, that there will soon be an official announcement that Clinton will not be charged with a crime, largely because it has been obvious from the beginning (to anyone who can figure out the intricacies of operating a salad fork, anyway) that she hasn t committed one.Sources tell CNN's Evan Perez: expectation is that there will be announcement of no charges in Clinton email probe w/in next two weeks or so Edward Mejia Davis (@TeddyDavisCNN) July 2, 2016In an evening interview with MSNBC s Chuck Todd, Clinton was asked about the reports that she won t be charged, but she refused to spill anything: Chuck I am not going to comment on the process.
I have no knowledge of any timeline.
This is entirely up to the Department.
Clinton pointed out to Todd that she didn t send nor receive any emails that were marked classified while she was Secretary of State.
Some emails had been marked classified later on something for which Clinton can not be faulted.If these reports are correct, we can expect much gnashing of teeth on the Right.Watch the interview below:Featured image via Getty Images/Andrew Renneisen