Last year, Trump claimed he was succeeding at saving manufacturing jobs by making individual deals with individual companies, like Carrier in Indiana.
At the time, people pointed out that he was boasting about the Carrier deal while totally ignoring another Indiana company, Rexnord, that was likewise shipping its jobs to Mexico.And now, Rexnord has done so.
NBC News did a report on the plant s closure, which Trump must have watched because he felt the need to lay the blame for this on Obama shortly after it aired:Rexnord of Indiana made a deal during the Obama Administration to move to Mexico.
Fired their employees.
Tax product big that s sold in U.S. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2017The funny thing is that if he hadn t been bragging about how great he was at saving manufacturing jobs the instant he won the election, and threatening companies who were trying to outsource, he might actually have a case to make.
But he promised to save these kinds of jobs and implied that he would do it company by company if he had to.All he did with Rexnord was tweet at them, which did nothing to sway their decision.
And their employees feel as though Trump failed them.
As one employee said: In the long run, he s done forgot about us cause he s moved on to bigger and better things.
Perhaps this little plant was just too little for Trump to bother with.
The move will save Rexnord tens of millions of dollars, because they can pay Mexican workers $3 per hour vs. the $25 per hour they were paying their American workers.
Regardless, this is what Trump said back in December, shortly after claiming victory with both Ford and Carrier:Rexnord of Indiana is moving to Mexico and rather viciously firing all of its 300 workers.
This is happening all over our country.
No more!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2016To our knowledge, Trump never even tried to save these jobs despite calling this company out and threatening them with huge tariffs should they actually do this.
This is on his head, not Obama s. You can t brag about how you ll save all these jobs and then blame your predecessor when it doesn t happen.Watch NBC News report below:Featured image by Olivier Douliery-Pool via Getty Images