Laura Loomer of Rebel Media rushed the stage at the controversial NYC Shakespeare in the Park performance that takes a modern twist on Julius Caesar by playing out an assassination of a President Trump look-alike.
Loomer yelled stop leftist violence before she was escorted off stage.We re huge fans and hope more people will follow her lead.
Can you imagine if the tables were turned and they performed the same play using Obama as the one to be assassinated?
The double standard here is unbelievable!
You have the blood of Steve Scalise on your hands!
The interesting irony is that the liberal crowd screamed and yelled at her.
The left loves civil disobedience -except when it spoils their enjoyment of highbrow assassination porn.
Do they advocate for violence against our president?They literally have Antifa chants during Julius Caesar before Trump gets assassinated pic.twitter.com/6AbHOChSnC Jack Posobiec (@JackPosobiec) June 17, 2017Ms.
Loomer was arrested by the the NYPD and was released within hours.
Laura s press conference: Jack Posobiec also got up and bravely yelled at the crowd.
He yelled You re all Goebbels In case you don t know:GOEBBELS WAS THE NAZI PROPAGANDA MINISTER:German Nazi Party member Joseph Goebbels became Adolf Hitler s propaganda minister in 1933, which gave him power over all German radio, press, cinema, and theater.In 1925 Goebbels met the party leader Adolf Hitler.
In 1926 he was made Gauleiter, or party leader, for the region of Berlin, and in 1927 he founded and became editor of the official National Socialist periodical Der Angriff (The Attack).
He was elected to the Reichstag, the German parliament, in 1928.
By exploiting mob emotions and by employing all modern methods of propaganda Goebbels helped Hitler into power.
His work as a propagandist materially aided Hitler s rise to power in 1933.
When Hitler seized power in 1933, Goebbels was appointed Reichsminister for propaganda and national enlightenment.
From then until his death, Goebbels used all media of education and communications to further Nazi propagandistic aims, instilling in the Germans the concept of their leader as a veritable god and of their destiny as the rulers of the world.
In 1938 he became a member of the Hitler cabinet council.
Late in World War II, in 1944, Hitler placed him in charge of total mobilization.
As Reichsminister for Propaganda and National Enlightenment, Goebbels was given complete control over radio, press, cinema, and theater; later he also regimented all German culture.
Goebbels placed his undeniable intelligence and his brilliant insight into mass psychology entirely at the service of his party.
His most virulent propaganda was against the Jews.
As a hypnotic orator he was second only to Hitler, and in his staging of mass meetings and parades he was unsurpassed.
Utterly cynical, he seems to have believed only in the self-justification of power.
He remained loyal to Hitler until the end.
On May 1, 1945, as Soviet troops were storming Berlin, Goebbels committed suicide.Via: whale