It s sort of unbelievable that the wealthiest person in the presidential campaign, the person who swore he would self-fund and that he d never be owned by anyone, is hitting up foreign dignitaries to boost his campaign coffers, and that s highly illegal.Several members of the British Parliament have received emails from Donald Trump, mostly sent by Donald Trump, Jr., begging for money.
Here s one from Natalie McGarry, with her brilliant response, basically telling the Trump s, in very British terms, to f*** off.May be Donald Trump bought lists bizarre for grassroots campaign but how does he opt out of foreign donations?
pic.twitter.com/jVwfdFnI6U Natalie McGarry MP (@NatalieMcgarry) June 27, 2016 Forgot to include @realDonaldTrump.
why your son is contacting us is beyond bizarre.
pic.twitter.com/QGiArA8YWD Natalie McGarry MP (@NatalieMcgarry) June 23, 2016It is bizarre.McGarry, wasn t the only MP to receive the solicitations.
Stuart McDonald said he received the same.
He called Trump pathetic.
Dear @nytimes, could you pass a message to @realDonaldTrump for me?
Please stop sending campaign begging letters to MPs.
It s pathetic!
Stuart McDonald MP (@Stuart_McDonald) June 27, 2016Scottish politicians complained of the same.
Apparently, he s been hitting up liberals, which shows that Trump s fundraising machine is seriously flawed.It s also illegal and Trump and/or his son, could go to prison, if the Justice Department decided to pursue it.
Here s what the Federal Election Commission has to say about it:The ProhibitionThe Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) prohibits any foreign national from contributing, donating or spending funds in connection with any federal, state, or local election in the United States, either directly or indirectly.
It is also unlawful to help foreign nationals violate that ban or to solicit, receive or accept contributions or donations from them.
Persons who knowingly and willfully engage in these activities may be subject to fines and/or imprisonment.Who is a Foreign National?The following groups and individuals are considered foreign nationals and are, therefore, subject to the prohibition: Foreign governments; Foreign political parties; Foreign corporations; Foreign associations; Foreign partnerships; Individuals with foreign citizenship; and Immigrants who do not have a green card.
Hopefully, someone will pursue legal channels, but in the meantime, we can laugh at the hypocrisy that the campaign built on nationalism and xenophobia feels they have to leave the country to raise money.
Is this how he plans to make America great again?Featured image via Jeff J. Mitchell/Getty Images