S.C.
Senator Lindsey Graham has been a shining beacon in the Republican Party when it comes to the Russian hacking scandal.
He knows that no matter what party it benefited, it s beyond dangerous to let a foreign government, especially a foreign nuclear power, gain control over our elections.On Sunday s Meet the Press, Graham laid down a pretty brutal truth bomb for Republicans, calling them political hacks, and unpatriotic.
Most Republicans are condemning what Russia did.
And to those who are gleeful about it you re a political hack.
You re not a Republican.
You re not a patriot, Graham said during an appearance on NBC News s Meet the Press with Chuck Todd.
We should all Republicans, Democrats condemn Russia for what they did.
To my Republican friends who are gleeful, you re making a huge mistake, Graham said.Graham added that he hopes Trump, who signaled in his campaign that he would work for a better relationship with the Kremlin, takes advantage of the chance to make Russia pay a price for trying to meddle in the election.Source: The Hill17 intelligence agencies have all come to the conclusion that Russia hacked our election and loaded social media with fake news.
It was clearly enough to sway the election.
Donald Trump has been in a general state of denial about it.
On Saturday, he tweeted, Intelligence stated very strongly there was absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election results.
Voting machines not touched.
But even his camp is starting to come around.
However, they re blaming it on the Democratic National Committee for apparently making it too easy to get hacked.
Of course, the Republican National Committee was also hacked, but the Russians and WikiLeaks chose to sit on those revelations, perhaps to use them for a later date?Graham expressed confusion about Trump s relationship with Russia.
I don t know what drives him on Russia, but I do know this.
That if our policies don t change vis a vis Russia, the worst is yet to come.
And the Congress is going to have a different view on Russia than the president-elect does, he said.Here s the video:Featured image via Riccardo Savi via Getty Images.