While holding back tears in Manchester, New Hampshire on Thursday, First Lady Michelle Obama addressed the sexual assault bombshells that have been raining down upon the Republican nominee for nearly a week now.Mrs.
Obama has mostly tried to refrain from commenting on Trump s sexual misconduct towards and remarks about women, but she felt she could no longer hold back.
She roundly condemned Trump and explained how his remarks make him totally unfit to be president.
The fact is that in this election, we have a candidate for President of the United States who, over the course of his lifetime and the course of this campaign has said things about women that are so shocking, so demeaning, I simply will not repeat anything here today.
And last week, we saw this candidate actually bragging about sexually assaulting women.
And I can t believe that I m saying that.
A candidate for president of the United States has bragged about sexually assaulting women, and I have to tell you that I can t stop thinking about this.
It has shaken me to my core in a way that I couldn t have predicted, she continued, telling the audience that she can t pretend that everything is normal because it would be dishonest and disingenuous for me to move on to the next thing like this was all just a bad dream.
This is not something we can ignore.
It s not something we can sweep under the rug as just another disturbing footnote in a sad election season.
Because this was not just a lewd conversation.
This wasn t locker room banter.
This was a powerful individual speaking freely and openly about sexually predatory behavior.
And actually bragging about kissing and groping women.
Using language so obscene that many of us are worried about our children hearing it when we turn on the TV.
To make matters worse, it now seems very clear this isn t an isolated incident.
It s one of countless examples of how he has treated women his whole life.And have to tell you that I listened to all this.
And I feel it so personally.
And I m sure that many of you do too, particularly the women.
The shameful comments about our bodies.
The disrespect of our ambitions and intellect.
The belief that you can do anything you want to a woman.
It is cruel.
It is frightening.
And the truth is, it hurts.
It hurts.
Unlike many Republicans who think otherwise, Michelle Obama made it clear that Trump is NOT a role model for children and urged parents to protect their kids by voting against Trump on Election Day.
In our hearts we all know that if we let Hillary s opponent win the election, then we are sending a clear message to our kids that everything they re seeing and hearing is perfectly okay.
We are validating it, we are endorsing it.
We are telling our sons that it is okay to humiliate women, telling our daughters that this is how we deserve to be treated, that bigotry and bullying are perfectly acceptable.
Is that we want for our children?
Let s be very clear, strong men, men who are truly role models don t need to put down women to make themselves feel powerful.
Here s the full speech via YouTube.Donald Trump is a disgrace to this country and our values.
And it looks like only the American people can stop him, because Republicans are too cowardly to strip Trump of the nomination and admit that they were wrong to make him the leader of their party.
This national nightmare needs to be put to an end once and for all and the only way to do that is to defeat Trump by a landslide in November.Featured Image via screenshot