Sen. Dick Durbin (D., Ill.) announced Tuesday that he will join fellow Democrats in filibustering Neil Gorsuch s nomination to the Supreme Court, despite in 2006 supporting Gorsuch to become a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit.Durbin, the Senate s second-ranking Democrat, took to the Senate floor on Tuesday to voice his opposition to Gorsuch s nomination.
He did not earn my vote, Durbin reportedly said.
I ll vote no when his nomination comes before the committee next week.
I will vote no on cloture, and I ll oppose his nomination on the Senate on the Senate floor.
At least 21 other Senate Democrats have pledged to vote against Gorsuch as Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D., N.Y.) rallies support to filibuster the judge s nomination.Gorsuch, President Donald Trump s nominee to the high court, spent last week going through severals hours of testimony during his confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee as they asked him questions about previous rulings and his judicial philosophy.Durbin, a member of the Judiciary Committee, appeared to be impressed by Gorsuch s performance, calling the judge very gifted last week.Watch Senator Durbin explain how Democrats are dumbfounded after not being able to pin anything on Judge Gorsuch during his lengthy hearings.
Durbin appears to be flabbergasted by the idea that Judge Gorsuch would actually rely on our US Constitution to make decisions as a possible future Supreme Court Justice.Durbin also previously voted to confirm Gorsuch to be a federal Circuit Court judge.
The Illinois Democrat appeared on MSNBC s Morning Joe last month, when he was asked by co-host Willie Geist whether he supported Gorsuch in 2006.
Do I have it right that you voted aye on the voice vote in 2006 when Gorsuch was up for the federal appeals court, Geist asked.
Good question, Willie.
I just don t remember, to be honest with you, Durbin responded.
On voice votes, you don t make much of a note of it and it s possible I don t believe there was a lot of controversy surrounding it, but let me tell you he s moving from triple-A ball to the big leagues here.
Geist cited the congressional record to point out that Durbin did support Gorsuch.
The congressional record shows you did vote in favor it was a unanimous vote, but has something changed in your view of Gorsuch since 2006 when you did vote aye for him?
Geist asked No, Durbin said.Not a single Senate Democrat voiced an objection to Gorsuch in 2006, when then-President George W. Bush nominated him to the Colorado-based 10th Circuit Court of Appeals.For entire story: WFB