Gun nuts are a strange breed.
They are paranoid, uneducated, and don t feel complete without a few penis extensions guns fully locked and loaded at all times.
However, one ammosexual just took it a step further, by holding on to his beloved AR-15 during an interview on CNN.Who is this guy and why is he allowed anywhere near guns, you might ask?
This guy actually is New Hampshire s own Mark Limoges, owner of Black Op Arms gun store.
He s also a Donald Trump supporter, and he showed up to the interview with a perfect copy of the AR-15 that he lovingly presented to The Donald himself.
Limoges told the show s hosts: This is an exact replica of the gun we gave Mr. Trump.
It has our Black Ops Arms symbol on it with our Black Ops Arms symbol on the handrail.
And the other side, we have the Live Free or Die with the American flag on the handrail.
He did, however, admit that Trump s Secret Service detail was more than a little concerned about both the visit to the gun store and the gift of an assault rifle.
Limoges goes on to explain how that was handled: We actually wanted Mr. Trump to come to our gun store, which the Secret Service was not real thrilled about.
A Secret Service agent came to the store, took the gun.
We removed the bolt out of it.
They took possession of the weapon and then presented it to us before we went into the room to present it to Mr. Trump.
Limoges also admitted that the weapon he give the GOP front runner would be illegal in Trump s home state of New York without modifications.
Then, of course, he had to go and accuse President Obama of attempting to seize guns, saying: I think it s probably a first step towards it, yes.
Host John Berman seemed surprised, and said, Really?
in response.Berman s co-host Kate Bolduan challenged this assertion, reminding Limoges that President Obama explicitly says that he has no such plans: The president said yesterday in his speech that his actions are not a plot to take away everybody s guns.
This statement led to Limoges accusing the president of being a liar on live television: Mr. Obama has also said other things that have not always been the truth.
Berman went on to press Limoges: Look, he says he respects the Second Amendment.
And if you just look at the actions he s taking, even the things he was proposing a few years ago which were steeper than this, even if you support universal background checks, that doesn t necessarily mean you want to take someone s guns away.
Limoges mind was not changed, though, and he concluded: Most of the people that come in [to the gun store] are real nervous about what Mr. Obama is going to do to limit their chances of getting weapons.
Maybe that s why he insisted on keeping his AR-15 cradled so closely for the duration.
Obama could come take it during the five minutes he was talking to those lovely CNN hosts.Get some help, Mr. Limoges.
You clearly need it.Watch the entire bizarre exchange below:Featured image via video screen capture from Raw Story