A new poll conducted in South Carolina on the heels of the state s Republican primary reveals the true extent of hatred from Donald Trump s base and it is terrifying.Currently, Trump is expected to easily win South Carolina.
His nearest competitor isn t even close.
The landslide is so bad that Trump has hardly had to campaign in the state, while others scramble to fight for second place.
What makes Trump so popular?
A look at the values these voters hold gives us the disturbing answer.Public Policy Polling asked South Carolinians several questions about issues Trump has alluded to on the campaign trail and found that many of them support his most hateful rhetoric.
Some even feel he doesn t go far enough.On the question of banning Muslims from entering the United States, one third of Trump s supporters said they would like to add homosexuals to the Can Not Enter list.
No other candidate s supporters came even close to that level of intolerance.
But they weren t finished.There s also 62/23 support among Trump voters for creating a national database of Muslims and 40/36 support for shutting down all the mosques in the United States, something no one else s voters back.
Only 44% of Trump voters think the practice of Islam should even be legal at all in the United States, to 33% who think it should be illegal.
To put all the views toward Muslims in context though, 32% of Trump voters continue to believe the policy of Japanese internment during World War II was a good one The message is clear: Making America Great Again means purging everyone who isn t white and Christian.Trump s supporters also felt that slavery wasn t so bad, either.
In fact, 38 percent of them said they wished the South had won the Civil War.
Another 38 percent weren t sure.
As PPP dryly put it, Trump s were the only one[s] whose supporters actually wish the South had won.
Needless to say, an overwhelming majority of his fans (70 percent) felt that the Confederate flag should still be flying over the State Capital.And as if all of those wistful call-backs to a time when white people owned black people were just too subtle, a full 16% of Trump s supporters say they think whites are the superior race the only candidate to have double digit support for this racist concept.Following Trump s latest snafu (During the debate, he correctly pointed out that George W. Bush had been president during 9/11.
A Republican no-no.
), there was some speculation that he would suffer in the polls.
That appears to not be the case.
It is Ted Cruz, in fact, who was found to be the most unlikable candidate in the race.
(No surprise there, everyone hates Ted Cruz once they get to know him.)
Meanwhile, Trump has actually gained a few points since the debate.It s clear that targeting Trump on any particular gaffe or talking point won t work.
Trump s supporters are fanatical, singularly focused, and fueled by intolerance and hatred.
Trump can continue to attack his fellow Republicans or their beloved George W. Bush just as long as he doesn t forget to mock and scapegoat minorities as well.
His base demands it.It is often said that Trump s popularity is due to his ability to say what others won t. If that s the case, he s saying an awful lot about the toxic underbelly of the Republican Party.Featured image from Flickr/Alex Hanson