Donald Trump is a snake oil salesman.
Anyone who paid attention during the election knows that, and increasingly, the people who took Trump at face value are beginning to realize it.
Radio host Michael Savage was one of Trump s most rabid supporters, but on his show last week, he admitted to having an awakening, of sorts, and he s waking up in a nightmare of Trump s broken promises.It s not as if Savage, who s famous for quotes like this: Barack Obama is elected for another four-year term, he ll be president for life.
He ll be the new Hugo Chavez.
He ll do away with the two-term limit and win the 2016 election with 90 percent of the vote.
We have less than six months to make sure this doesn t happen.
Before Lyndon Johnson intervened to make sure blacks would become dependent on the government for just about everything they needed to live, black participation in the labor market was equal to or greater than that of whites.
Today the official African-American unemployment rate which doesn t take into account the enormous number of blacks who aren t even trying to find jobs is around 14 percent.
In fact, when you count those who don t even try to find a job, it s nearly 50 percent.
When the numbers are added up, under this administration more than 60 percent of young black people are no longer even part of the labor force.
It s the lowest ever recorded in our history.
End affirmative action.
We ve had a black president, black cabinet members from both parties, a black chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
As much as the left fashions themselves as being progressive, they re not.
In reality, today s leftist movement is made in much the same way as a sausage it s a blend of fascist, communist, and socialist ideologies from twentieth-century Europe, with a pinch of Nazism, all ground together, yet retaining the flavor of its various parts.
has suddenly grown empathy and has become aware of all the people a Trump presidency can hurt.
Nope, Savage is disillusioned because Trump seems to be buddying up to some black guys.Savage, who has been credited with enabling Trump and his legion of racist white men, has been called Trump s ideological spirit animal.
He shares Trump s hatred for People of Color, and despite being Jewish, Savage supports Israel but has a complicated relationship with Jewish people.
It s no wonder, then, that Savage experienced some existential angst when Trump was seen cozying up to Kanye West, who Savage called a psycho rapper.
Then, a caller had this so say: I think as badly of it as I think of a lot of the things he s doing, the caller said, referring to Obama.
Talking about, you know, Obama and how he agrees with Obama on so many things.
When he was running for president, he didn t agree with Obama on nothing; neither did I, neither did you, neither did any of the people voting for him, and now he talks about how he has great respect for him and he s calling him for his opinion and to invite this rapper up to Trump Tower had he told us he was gonna do these things, do you think this movement would have been as big as it was?
I don t think so.
Savage agreed with the caller, and said, I don t think you re alone.
He then complained about Trump s appointments of establishment Republicans (no complaints about billionaires, though) and the fact that Trump is no longer talking about building a wall.
I m waking up and it seems to be a nightmare, Savage said.
One day after another, they seem to be tilting so far away from what they promised that it s hard to even remember what it is that he promised.
Here s the audio:Featured image via Mark Wallheiser/Getty Images.