Bill Maher laid into red state voters on Friday night for sacrificing whatever humanity they had left to continue supporting Donald Trump.The Republican nominee s comments about groping women, the multiple allegations of sexual assault, and the new revelations that Trump hit on teen girls and even walked in on Miss Teen USA contestants while they were naked are still not enough to convince his supporters to dump him.But even if Republicans get rid of Trump, Maher wondered if they can ever rid their party of Trumpism.Writer Rebecca Traister said no because the GOP is built on it.
She then explained that Trump s voters represent the kind of people who have been working to oppress women and minorities for over a century and that the Republican Party has allowed Trump s deplorables to gain a major foothold on the party.
The fact is, Republican voters who knew they were going to be facing Hillary Clinton, who hate Barack Obama, who object to the people who vote for Democrats, people of color and women, selected a candidate who embodies the racism and sexism that are the very forces that kept people of color and women disenfranchised for centuries and away from the White House until now.
They picked him.
Indeed, they chose Trump to be their leader and now Republicans leaders are kicking themselves for doing it because they are losing control of their party to the base, which is bad if the GOP ever wants to win a general election again.Former Nebraska Senator Bob Kerrey said that we need to appeal to Trump supporters to call out Trump s behavior and comments toward women, saying that there are good people who are voting for Trump.
But Maher doubted that Trump s voters have any humanity left to give damn.
When I look at the electoral map, I see states that Trump apparently cannot possibly lose, Maher pointed out.
The pink are likely Republican and the red are, like he said, I could shoot somebody in the middle of 5th Avenue and they wouldn t leave me.
The people of Idaho, Wyoming, Arkansas, Oklahoma, West Virginia, Kentucky I know they re Republican mostly, but they re human, right?
These are human beings.
What the f*ck does it take, in this country, to have being a human being supersede being a Republican?
Here s the video via YouTube:At this point, if red state voters haven t seen the error of their ways they aren t going to do so by Election Day.
They will vote for Trump, thus proving that they are nothing more than hateful uneducated sexist racist assholes who care more about watching the country burn than they do about making sure our great nation continues to strive on towards a better future.
They don t care about America.
They are not patriots.
They are selfish people who surrendered their humanity a long time ago.
They have turned into mere drones for the Republican Party.
Even if the party had nominated Hitler for president these people would stand in line to shake his hand and then vote for him no matter the horrible things he has done.
That s because even though these people claim to be Christians, the truth is that they sold their souls to the devil and the devil is apparently collecting on November 8th, which means it s up to the rest of us to make sure he loses.Featured image via screenshot