Donald Trump is a disease.
The symptoms have always been with us.
We ve always been a nation that s at least 1/3 completely bigoted a**holes, but this year, Donald Trump has given them permission to fester and spread their hate germs all over the nation.Instead of receiving a tip, a waitress in South Carolina received a note.
You re right if you re thinking that never ends well.
It didn t. In the note, the obvious Trump supporter told the waitress that she was a disgrace to womankind and a disgrace to her husband because she worked.Thank you for your excellent service today you re a good waitress.Here s your tip:The woman s place is in the home.
Your place is in the home.
It even says so in the Bible.
You may think that you re contributing to your household by coming into work, but you re not.
While you re in here working this is the reason your husband must see another woman on his way home from a long day at his work.
Because you should be home taking care of the household duties, you may think what you are doing working is right, it is really essentially a disgrace to his manhood and to the American family.
So instead of coming to your job and looking for handouts to feed your family, how s about going home and cleaning your house and cooking a hot meal for your husband and children, the way your husband and God intended, and help make America great again.
Praying for families and our nation.Notice make America great again?
Obviously, that was a reference to Donald Trump.
And obviously, this person has no idea what Christianity is about.The waitress did respond that she felt mortified, embarrassed, humiliated even.
I felt hurt and a bit heartbroken.
She says she s not even married, but she does have a boyfriend who is supportive.Most waitresses don t work because they have nothing better to do.
Most people don t work because they have nothing better to do.
People, and waitresses are no exception, work because they need money to survive.
Most families these days need two incomes, but conservatives don t want to do anything to help them.
Instead, they destroy unions, drive down wages and take away benefits.
I m not a religious person, but something makes me think Jesus wouldn t approve.h/t and featured image: Patheos |