Early Sunday morning, Omar Mateen walked into a gay nightclub in Orlando and proceeded to murder 50 people, and wound over 50 more.
He was allegedly set off by seeing two men kissing, and decided that was reason enough to commit the worst domestic terror attack since 9/11.
Conservatives all over the place have been quick to jump on this, not as a failure of Islamophobia and their more guns everywhere mantra, but as a failure of policies that allow Middle Eastern immigrants and refugees here.Let s be clear: Mateen was not a refugee.
He was a 29-year old U.S. citizen from New York who obtained his guns legally.
His parents were Afghan refugees, though, who would have come to the U.S. under conservative icon St. Reagan.
Mateen came to ISIS as a U.S. citizen living legally in the U.S., which is one way ISIS operates.But conservatives don t care about facts.
We must find a way to make sure nobody blames anything we ve said and done for this!
they cry.
Middle Eastern refugees make a convenient scapegoat, so that s what they re doing.Take a look at what they re saying on social media.
TONS of conservatives many of whom are Trump drones are blaming refugees for this whether they think Mateen was a refugee himself or not.
Get a bucket and some aspirin handy.
This will make your hair hurt if it doesn t make you puke first.Omar Mateen Registered Democrat.
Let s import some more Muslim Refugees.
Our whole world is upside down because of Islam.
Daxton Brown (@daxtonbrown) June 12, 2016 Ramadan Massacre In Orlando Proves Donald Trump Was Right On Muslim Immigration Ban Now The End Begins https://t.co/GYuZRF54py Lorrona (@ibangel) June 12, 2016FBI now saying they first became aware of Omar Mateen in 2013.
What about CIA?
I say bullshit.
Big gov t bullshit.
pic.twitter.com/YxgGxnJOzu TexasLibertarian (@shootist2015) June 12, 2016 #GunControlNow ok fine, but why are we refusing to acknowledge the problem that is #RadicalIslam and continous influx of Syrian refugees?
shreshtha wadhwa (@swadhwa1006) June 12, 2016LGBT folks.
More Omar Mateen Islamic terrorists coming to Your Town , like Orlando , w/each Syrian Refugee group.#TrumpTrain #neverhillary Obama World of Oz (@Obamaisnuts) June 12, 2016 Omar Saddiqui Mateen is not the need for gun control, but the need for a refugee ban and a wall Leroy Bierfreund (@BierfreundLeroy) June 12, 2016@LindaSuhler Afghan refugee w US passport Omar Mateen a Muslim, shot 103 LGBT, notice both main support groups for HRC, are gays suicidal?
Nu iOtwo (@nuiotwo) June 12, 2016Of course, we can always count on Donald Trump to congratulate himself and his formidable psychic powers after a tragedy like this: Appreciate the congrats for being right on radical Islamic terrorism, I don t want congrats, I want toughness & vigilance.
We must be smart!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 12, 2016It didn t stop with Twitter.
Search Omar Mateen refugee on Facebook and you ll see post, after post, after post like the ones that follow.However, below is a tweet that actually makes sense.
Mateen s values are in line with our right-wing Christian values.
It s a good bet that we have squillions of right-wing Christians condemning his values though, while preaching the exact same hate and bigotry against the LGBT community.
They are hypocrites of the worst kind.
If #omarmateen was motivated by radical Islam, his hatred of LGBTQ people is consistent with US religious right and religious freedom laws Captain Renault (@JohnMonch) June 12, 2016Xenophobia and Islamophobia are infecting our country, and it s stopping people from being able to think reasonably about this, and about how conservative ideology contributed to this.
One publication, called Now The End Begins, has this headline on their top story: Ramadan Massacre In Orlando Proves Donald Trump Was Right On Muslim Immigration Ban An immigration ban would have stopped this?
Please.
Mateen was already here.
However, the editor of that story showed himself to be a Trump drone, saying at the top of the story: The early morning Islamic terror attack in Orlando is now being called the worst mass shooting in United States history, with the death toll now at 50 and rising.
Donald Trump said this would happen and has called repeatedly for a complete ban on all Muslim immigration.
I say it s also time to start closing down the mosques as well.
And do what with all those displaced Muslims?
ISIS will have a field day recruiting them after that.Pamela Gellar, who can always be counted on to have one of the worst responses to any tragedy like this, wrote her own post in which she said:Yes, by all means, find any justification possible to deflect blame from all the directions it will come, because that s what conservatives do.
These people are the reason ISIS can recruit within the U.S. Their ranting, raving and railing is what will make it worse.Featured image by Gerardo Mora/Getty Images