You d think in the year 2016 we d no longer have to deal with discrimination of this magnitude anymore, but alas, the nation is still filled with bigoted morons, so, we still have businesses refusing service to customers based upon, in this case, religion.The Oktaha, Oklahoma gun range Save Yourself Survival and Tactical Gun Range (what a name) decided to prohibit 29-year-old Raja ee Fatihah from their establishment because he s a Muslim.
And now the U.S Army reservist, who proudly serves his country despite being openly discriminated against by bigots, is throwing a much-deserved lawsuit back in their face.The gun range, quite openly, prohibits Muslims, as can be seen in the photo:Save Yourself Survival and Tactical Gun Range via CAIRLittle did they realize that the person whom they banned from their establishment was none other than a board member in the Oklahoma chapter of the Muslim advocacy group, the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR).
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) is the one who helped file the suit, and the legal director of the Oklahoma chapter, Brady Henderson perfectly stated: Whether the sign in question says no Muslims or whether it says no coloreds or whether it says no women or no Christians or no Buddhists it is just as un-American and fundamentally it is just as wrong.
Fatihah said the range was fine and pleasant with him until he revealed that he was, in fact, Muslim.
He said: At that point, they started treating me with suspicion.
The ACLU released this as part of their press release: The lawsuit alleges that the policy violates Oklahoma s non-discrimination law as well as the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which forbids certain places of business from denying service to customers based on their race, color, religion, or national origin.
Although the business is open to the general public, in July 2015, the owners posted a sign near the front entrance announcing that Muslims are not permitted at the facility and that the business is a Muslim free establishment.
There is no justification for a business denying people service based on religion, said Fatihah.
I am a servant of my community in every respect, and as a proud American, I have enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserve to protect this country.
I should be afforded the same rights and privileges as anyone else.
When Fatihah arrived at the business s main counter, owners required him to fill out a liability form and provide his name, address, and driver s license number standard procedure for patrons seeking to use the gun range s facilities.
However, after Fatihah identified himself as a Muslim, the owners armed themselves with handguns and demanded to know whether he was there to commit an act of violence or as part of a jihad.
Fatihah was then made to leave the gun range without receiving service.
According to WBRZ: The Oklahoma store owner s attorney, Robert Muise, says Fatihah was denied service because he was belligerent, not because of his religion.
However, if you look at the sign on the front door that reads plain as day, MUSLIM FREE ESTABLISHMENT, it s hard to buy that story line.
It will definitely be interesting to see how this lawsuit moves forward and if justice will be served.Featured image: Council on American-Islamic Relations via Mother Jones