Ted Cruz proudly announced the latest endorsement of his presidential bid.
It comes from Pastor Mike Bickle, founder and director of the International House of Prayer of Kansas City.
Bickle is a figure well known for his attack on on same sex-marriage, calling it a sign of the end of times.
He has also blamed the Jews for the Holocaust.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2hE_AOR2JBE]In a 2011 speech, Bickle suggested that millions of Jews were exterminated during the Holocaust because they didn t accept God s gift, Jesus Christ.
He quoted Jeremiah 16:16 from the Bible to explain why Hitler murdered millions of Jews.
He said: The Lord says, I m going to give all 20 million of them the chance to respond to the fishermen.
And I give them grace.
And he says, And if they don t respond to grace, I m going to raise up the hunters.
And the most famous hunter in recent history is a man named Adolf Hitler.
It doesn t get more anti-Semitic than this guy.
His statement not only blames Jews for the Holocaust, but also justifies it: because Jews didn t accept Jesus, they deserved to die.Bickle also says that in the coming end of days, Jews will be put in prison and death camps.
When all is said and done, 2/3rds of the Jewish population will be destroyed and off to hell because they didn t accept Jesus.
Thus, not only were they murdered for not accepting Jesus, the Jews will be murdered again for continuing their rejection of Jesus.Ted Cruz is excited about the endorsement of the genocidal Bickle.
He said: Through prayer, the Lord has changed my life and altered my family s story.
I am grateful for Mike s dedication to call a generation of young people to prayer and spiritual commitment.
Heidi and I are grateful to have his prayers and support.
With the support of Mike and many other people of faith, we will fight the good fight, finish the course, and keep the faith.
Cruz and Bickle are of the same ilk and ideology when it comes to religion and so it should come as no surprise to all of us that Cruz would be proud of this endorsement.
Bickle s statements are not only anti-Semitic, but they are also genocidal.
To actually believe that Jews have been and will be exterminated because they don t believe in Jesus (whatever that means) justifies the Holocaust and also justifies a future one for millions of so-called Christians.Featured Image Via Wikimedia Commons.