Harney County resident Jarvis Kennedy has a message for the out-of-state terrorists who have taken over Oregon s Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.
Get the hell out of here.
Mr. Kennedy, who is a Burns Paiute Tribal Councilman, spoke at a meeting of the council on Wednesday, saying the armed militants occupying the wildlife refuge are unwelcome and unwanted.
His comments were met with a round of thundering applause from those in attendance.
We as Harney County citizens don t need some clown to come in here and stand up for us, Kennedy said.
They just need to get the hell out of here.
Councilman Kennedy began his remarks by comparing the government s treatment of Natives to those of the terrorist organization occupying Malheur.
I got a question for the world, he said.
What if it was a bunch of Natives that went out there and overtook that or any federal land?
What would the outcome be?
Think about that.
What would happen?
Would they let us come into town and get supplies and re-up?
For those unfamiliar with the history, Malheur National Wildlife Refuge was settled by the Paiute and other Native American tribes some 11,000 years before it was declared a sanctuary for native bird species by president Theodore Roosevelt, in 1908.Mr.
Kennedy s ancestors were removed from the land by the federal government.The hypocrisy of those who support the YallQaeda terrorists knows no bounds.
These are people who deny that the federal government has authority to remove people from their land.
Clearly, if that is the case, the land belongs to the local tribes that had lived there for thousands of years before the federal government removed them, not ignorant militiamen from Nevada, Florida, Arizona or any other state of the non-Oregon variety.
We don t need them to back us up, Councilman Kennedy told the crowd.
We didn t ask them here.
We don t want them here.
Mr. Kennedy made it clear that, in spite of right wing propaganda to the contrary, the armed men occupying the wildlife refuge are terrorists.
They say they don t want to bother the community, he said angrily.
But you know what?
Our little kids are sitting at home right now, when they should be at school.
They re jeopardizing and they re scaring everyone.
Watch Councilman Kennedy s speech published by KGW in Portland via YouTube: Local tribal members are not the only Harney County residents enraged over the out-of-state terrorist occupation of Malheur.A long list of organizations have denounced the Bundy terrorists, including groups that represent Harney County farmers and ranchers, such as the Oregon Cattleman s Association and the Rural Organizing Project.The group Oregon Wild sternly denounced the Bundy s and their supporters as domestic terrorists, holding a community hostage for their own political gain.
The dictionary definition of the word terrorism is the use of violence and intimidation in the pursuit of political aims.
This word should not be used lightly, but it is exactly what the extremist group currently occupying Malheur National Wildlife Refuge is attempting to do, said Oregon Wild Executive Director Sean Stevens.Even the Hammonds, the two men these terrorists are supposed to be defending, have made it clear that they do not agree with or support the actions of the men who are terrorizing Harney County.As Portland, Oregon s KGW reports here, Groups representing businesses, wildlife and residents in Harney County have released statements about the protest.
None supported the armed occupation at the wildlife refuge.
The men holed up in Malheur National Wildlife Refuge have deluded themselves into believing that they are heroes, fighting for people not strong enough to fight for themselves.Harney county residents make it clear that these armed lunatics are living in a fantasy world.
They neither want or need help from the delusional nut jobs that have descended on their community.
The citizens see these men for exactly what they are, domestic terrorists attempting to exploit the Hammonds conviction for poaching and arson, in order to further their own political agenda.As Harney County Sheriff David Ward points out here, the Bundys and their followers are not there to help anyone but themselves and their anti-government agenda.
These men came to Harney County claiming to be part of militia groups supporting local ranchers, when in reality these men had alternative motives to attempt to over throw the county and federal government in hopes to spark a movement across the United States.
Instead of defending the local citizens, as the Bundy terrorists claim they re doing, they are terrorizing a small community that never asked them to come and very clearly wants them to leave.Featured image via screencapture