A passenger wearing a Make America Great Again hat in support of alleged president Donald Trump became disruptive on a flight from Shanghai to Newark, New Jersey on Sunday.
The man was so unruly that the flight had to be extended by three hours.
Eventually, the man had to be removed from the plane.
The trouble began when the Trump supporter took another passenger s seat then became disruptive, according to what a spokesman for United told NBC.Local law enforcement had to deal with the unidentified man after passengers were forced to de-plane at the Shanghai airport.The man reportedly left the aircraft on his own accord eventually, before the flight departed, the airline said.After the passengers were forced to exit the aircraft and remain in the airport for three long hours, the man walked by the crowd while he was escorted off the plane.
That s when chants of lock him up rang out, apparently mocking Donald Trump supporters who yelled out the same phrase in chorus during rallies across the country.Cellphone video of the incident was captured by a passenger.Watch: United said that the flight was forced to make an unscheduled stopover in San Francisco to get a new crew on board and that added several hours to the already lengthy flight.Instead of arriving in Newark at 6:15 p.m.
ET as scheduled on Sunday, it didn t touch down in New Jersey until 2:22 a.m. Monday.If you ever want a huge crowd of people angry with you, just make sure their flight is delayed for hours because you wanted another passenger s seat and refused to give it back.
Also, too, wear a Make American Great Again hat on the flight so that everyone can be warned that you re an arsehole to those around you.
You know, like at Trump rallies during the campaign in which protesters were beaten and racial slurs were thrown.
Meanwhile, Trump is plagued with scandals that are being compared to Watergate.
We re pretty sure that it won t be long until the elderly Trump supporter rethinks wearing his MAGA hat in public.Image via screen capture