Well that didn t take long.The bodies are still warm and the count of the dead continues, but Fox News already knows who is to blame for the mass shooting at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando and it isn t the man who actually pulled the trigger.No, Fox News is blaming President Obama for the shooting while claiming that it s because he refuses to blame Islam for acts of terrorism even though an investigation is just getting started and hasn t confirmed anything yet.
Doesn t the politicization of all of this, the relentless lying by the administration about the Islamic terror threat we face make it harder for people to want to step forward and say what they see?
host Tucker Carlson asked after bringing up the San Bernardino shooting to claim that President Obama isn t keeping America safe from terrorism.Fox counterterrorism expert Sebastian Gorka, of course, agreed.
Absolutely, it s horrific, he replied before launching into a story about how an administration official allegedly approached him a police training session and told him that the real threat to America is white supremacists.If the story is true, the administration official was not wrong.According to the New York Times:Since Sept. 11, 2001, nearly twice as many people have been killed by white supremacists, anti-government fanatics and other non-Muslim extremists than by radical Muslims.And law enforcement agrees.A survey to be published this week asked 382 police and sheriff s departments nationwide to rank the three biggest threats from violent extremism in their jurisdiction.
About 74 percent listed anti-government violence, while 39 percent listed Al Qaeda-inspired violence.Sounds like Fox News needs a new expert, especially since this latest mass shooting has not been concluded to have been an act of terrorism linked to radical Muslims.And while Fox was quick to call this shooting an act of terrorism simply because the shooter has brown skin and the name of Omar Mateen, they refused to call the Charleston mass shooting an act of terror because the shooter was a white supremacist.Clearly, Fox News is still practicing a double standard where right-wing terrorists are treated with kid gloves while anyone with brown skin is immediately labeled a terrorist.
Make no mistake, what happened in Orlando is an act of terrorism, but so are mass shootings by white gunmen and it s time for conservative media to stop the bullshit.Also, President Obama is NOT to blame for this shootings.
The only person to blame is the asshole who pulled the trigger and our lax gun laws that make it so easy for anyone to get their hands on a gun.But Fox News still wasn t done.
They brought Newt Gingrich on the show and he wasted no time demonizing the entire religion of Islam and pinned the blame on President Obama for the shooting.
The Obama administration had deliberately and willfully for seven years tried to avoid telling the American people the truth about an ideology which is an enormous threat to our civilization and which is winning the war.
Here s the video via YouTube.Seriously, if anyone is making America less safe, it s Fox News for calling over a billion people around the world terrorists even though it is only a few who twist Islam to justify their extremism.
It would be like claiming that all Christians are terrorists because conservatives use the Bible to justify discrimination and acts of violence against black people and the LGBT community.Once again, Fox News proves why it is definitely NOT fair and balanced.
Featured image via screen capture