Russia committed espionage against our country and got caught by the CIA, but Donald Trump is desperately defending his buddy Putin to salvage his legitimacy.Seventeen intelligence agencies agree that Russia interfered with our election to help Trump win.
Now Russia has the puppet in the White House they have always wanted.Americans are outraged and lawmakers from both political parties are demanding an investigation by Congress.
Because if it s confirmed by Congress that Russia helped Trump win, the election results should be invalidated and we should hold a new election or install Hillary Clinton as the rightful winner for the sake of election integrity.But Trump and his team are denying that Russia interfered and are insisting that we should just ignore the facts and move on.And that isn t sitting well with former Tea Party congressman Joe Walsh.Earlier this week, Walsh took to Twitter to personally call for an investigation and blasted Trump for not having the balls to call for one himself.Every Republican swore to defend us against our enemies, including a foreign attack on our electionsAny Republican who won t should resign Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) December 11, 2016I ve said over and over that I d support Trump when he s right & call him out when he s wrong.Well he s wrong about Russia.
Dead wrong.
Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) December 12, 2016Well, Walsh appeared on CNN on Monday night and tore into Trump for defending Russia instead of believing our intelligence agencies.
I m outraged at the lack of outrage, especially on my side, the Republican side, Walsh said.
I get that the country is divided, but my god, a foreign government interfered with our election.
That should piss everybody off.
Indeed, anyone who cares about our country should be outraged.But Walsh continued blasting Trump and his Republican supporters, much to the surprise of host Brooke Baldwin.
It s like because our guy won, Trump won, we re going to keep our mouths shut, Walsh said.
I mean that s just so wrong.
Walsh went on to say that it s a fact that Russia meddled in our political process and said Trump should be ashamed of himself because he s acting like a traitor by siding with Russia over our own intelligence community.
For Donald Trump to come out and attack our men and women in the CIA, that s almost treasonous.
Russia attacks us and Trump attacks the CIA.
He ought to be the one calling for an investigation.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump should not be allowed to take office until a full investigation has come to a conclusion.
Our democratic process is too sacred to just ignore the fact that Russia helped Trump win and now they have a puppet they can bend to their will.
It s bad for our country and it s bad for the American people.Featured image via screenshot