As Donald Trump condemned Democrats as animals on Sunday because a GOP office was firebombed on Saturday night, it was the Democrats who raised money to help rebuild the office while Trump didn t send a dime.Let s make one thing clear.
Whoever firebombed the GOP office in Hillsborough, North Carolina is a terrorist.
But we don t actually know who committed the act and we certainly don t know where the perpetrator(s) stand politically.But that didn t stop Trump from immediately blaming Hillary Clinton supporters in his response to the incident.Animals representing Hillary Clinton and Dems in North Carolina just firebombed our office in Orange County because we are winning @NCGOP Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2016Of course, Hillary s response sounded way more presidential.The attack on the Orange County HQ @NCGOP office is horrific and unacceptable.
Very grateful that everyone is safe.
Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 16, 2016And while Donald Trump is busy demonizing Hillary supporters and Democrats, it is Democrats who are saving the day in the name of democracy and compassion.A group of Democrats started a GoFundMe account to raise money in an effort to help the Republican Party rebuild the destroyed office and get it running again as soon as possible.
As Democrats, we are starting this campaign to enable the Orange County, North Carolina Republican office to re-open as soon as possible, the account s message reads.
Until an investigation is undertaken, we cannot know who did this or why.
No matter the result, this is not how Americans resolve their differences.
We talk, we argue, sometimes we march, and most of all we vote.
We do not resort to violence by individuals or by mobs.So, let s all pitch in, no matter what your party affiliation, in and get that office open again quickly.
And while Trump hasn t provided any money to help rebuild the office, these Democrats raised $13,000 in a matter of hours to give to the North Carolina GOP in a spectacular demonstration of American values.
This is a moment for graciousness, not fractiousness, said Jeff Jarvis, one of the Democrats who helped put this fundraiser together.Unlike Donald Trump s selfishness and accusatory rhetoric, Democrats displayed true patriotism and compassion for their fellow Americans even though they are divided by political beliefs.
This is the true definition of citizenship and you have to wonder if Republicans would do the same if it were a Democratic office that had been bombed.
Surely, they would.
But it s hard to say considering Trump is painting Democrats as animals who hate America.Featured Image: Jessica Kourkounis/Getty Images