Members of the Electoral College will not be receiving any further intelligence regarding Russia s interference in the presidential election before they cast their votes.
According to a report by NPR, electors will not be given an intelligence briefing on Russia s hacking and meddling in November s election before they vote on Monday.Christine Pelosi, the daughter of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, began an effort to submit a letter to James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, requesting an intelligence briefing for members of the Elector College before they cast their ballots.
The message was originally signed by 10 electors, but that number grew to 54.
Separate from Mr. Trump s own denials of Russian involvement in the election, the confirmed communication between Trump s aides and those associated with the Russian election interference activity raise serious concerns that must be addressed before we cast our votes, the letter read.All but one of those who signed the letter were Democrats.
The lone Republican was Chris Suprun of Texas, who has made it abundantly clear that he has no intention whatsoever of voting for Trump.
He also claims other Republican electors plan to turn their backs on the president-elect this Monday as well.The call for more information to be provided to the Electoral College before Monday began after the CIA announced the findings of their investigation last Friday.
The agency found that Russia had meddled in the presidential election and had done so with the specific purpose of helping Donald Trump win rather than just to undermine faith in our election system.
This Friday, the FBI announced that they backed the findings of the CIA.Hillary Clinton s campaign praised the electors who signed the letter requesting more intelligence.
Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta said in a statement on Monday that the CIA s findings should worry everybody.
Despite our protestations, this matter did not receive the attention it deserved by the media in the campaign, Podesta said.
We now know the CIA has determined Russia s interference in our election was for the purpose of electing Donald Trump.
This should distress every American.
Unfortunately, it looks like the information gathered by these intelligence agencies will be withheld from electors and they will cast their ballots on Monday without the benefit a briefing on Russia s involvement in the election.
THIS should distress every American too.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images