The men of Morning Joe found Donald Trump s insults against women funny, but Mika Brzezinski shut them and their disgusting sexism down HARD.Joe Scarborough and Willy Geist had a laugh over Trump s interview with Bill O Reilly on Wednesday night and seemed to have no problem with him fat-shaming women just because they gain a little weight.Scarborough tried to excuse Trump s behavior as just trying to help while Geist called Trump the real hero of this story.
A sickened Mika then jumped in and took Trump to the woodshed on behalf of women everywhere.
It s a beauty contest.
You can t actually have any weight on your body for a beauty contest because that wouldn t be beautiful.
Think about that.
Geist then cracked that women shouldn t put on 60 pounds and attributed the joke to Newt Gingrich, a supporter of Trump and his campaign.
Really?
Mika asked.
That s the pot!
People like Donald Trump and Newt Gingrich and men can walk around just rotund as all get out, Mika continued.
And it s not an issue.
But women, in order to be beautiful, you have to be 117 pounds.
I m sorry.
Can someone tell me what year we re in here?
Is it 2016?
I think we re back in the 70s with these hideous pageants which, by the way we need to talk about at some point.
Someone who runs beauty pageants you have to think about how they think about women.Look at those beauty pageants.
Look at them!
Young women walking around in bikinis getting graded on how they look.
I can t believe we still do these things.Do we want someone who ran beauty pageants?
And still thinks it s okay to talk about gaining weight being a problem?
Do we really want that person in the White House?
Hiring women?
I don t think he s going to hire women unless they re tens.
In his view, which is 117 pounds and starving and covered in plastic.
Indeed, these sexists think it s okay for them to gain weight but they think women should be held to certain standards.
And that s why Trump is getting his ass handed to him by women right now in the polls.Joe Scarborough repeatedly tried to interrupt Mika and talk over her throughout her rant, which is something he probably took a lot of flack about later after the show.In the end, however, Mika got the last word and made it clear that Trump s treatment of women is not something to joke about.
It s disgusting.
It s perverted.
It s a serious story.
Stupid men.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump s sexism should automatically disqualify him from seeking the presidency.
Instead, Republican chose him as their leader and that demonstrated just how little they care about women, and if every woman in this country voted against Trump and the GOP every year, the party would go extinct.Featured Image: Screenshot