Rather than do the damn job he swore to do, Donald Trump is now obsessed with complaining about media estimates of his inauguration crowd size.Trump had predicted that his inauguration would draw a record-breaking crowd.
To break the record, which is held by President Obama in 2008, Trump would have had to get over 1.8 million people to show up.But he didn t even get half a million as aerial photographs and reports from the DC Metro show that Trump s audience left a hell of a lot of empty space in the National Mall.During a visit to the CIA, Trump complained about the media reports and claimed that his crowd numbered at least 1.5 million.
We had a massive field of people.
You saw that.
Packed, Trump claimed.
I get up this morning and I turn on one of the networks and they show an empty field.
I said, Wait a minute, I made a speech.
I looked out.
The field was it looked like a million, a million and a half people, Trump said.
They showed a field where there were practically nobody standing there.
They said, Donald Trump did not draw well.
It looked honestly like a million and a half people, whatever it was, it was, but it went all the way back to the Washington Monument and I turn on, by mistake, I get this network, and it showed an empty field.
Said we drew 250,000 people.
Now, that s not bad.
But it s a lie.
We had 250,000 people in the little ball that we constructed.
Trump then insisted that the entire National Mall was packed all the way to the Washington Monument and then warned the media that they will pay a price for accurately reporting the numbers.Here s the video via Twitter:President Trump on crowd size at inauguration: It looked like a million and a half people.
https://t.co/U5pWhBBMzt https://t.co/NX6vI6UTHR CNN (@CNN) January 21, 2017Yes, up near the Capitol where Trump spoke was clearly packed, but the National Mall definitely was not.In fact, we can compare Trump s inauguration attendance to President Obama s in 2009 with photographs taken at the same time just before the inaugural address was delivered.For those saying Trump can t be that hated, look at the size of the crowd #Inauguration pic.twitter.com/Sczp6Feta5 Stefan Kay (@5tefanK) January 20, 2017What is shown is that President Obama s crowd reaches all the way to the Washington Monument in the photo on the left, while Trump s crowd is, indeed, sparse and does NOT reach the Washington Monument as he claims.Apparently, Trump is thinking of President Obama s inauguration crowd instead of his own.And the DC Metro statistics corroborate the photos.Metro Ridership: As of 11am, 193k trips taken so far today.
(11am 1/20/13 = 317k, 11am 1/20/09 = 513k, 11am 1/20/05 = 197k) #wmata Metro (@wmata) January 20, 2017The fact is that simply by looking at the photo it is possible to estimate the crowd size, and Trump s claim just doesn t match up with reality.Furthermore, it s incredibly disturbing that Trump continues to threaten the media for telling the truth about him, especially when there is photographic evidence that proves him wrong.Trump owes the media a public apology and then he needs to focus on the presidency instead of engaging in petty feuds with the free press.He s just mad because the size of the Women s March in Washington dwarfs his crowd size.Featured image via screenshot