Maury is perhaps one of the trashiest shows on television today.
It s right in line with the likes of the gutter trash that is Jerry Springer, and the fact that those shows are still on the air with the shit they air really is a sad testament to what Americans find to be entertaining.
However, Maury really crossed the line with a Facebook post regarding one of their guest s appearance with a vile, disgusting caption on Tuesday evening.There was a young woman on there doing one of their episodes regarding the paternity of her child.
However, on the page, the show posted an image of the woman, who happens to bear a striking resemblance to Senator and presidential candidate Ted Cruz.
The caption from the Maury Show page read: The Lie Detector Test determined .that was a LIE!
Ted Cruz is just NOT that SEXY!
As if that weren t horrible enough, the caption underneath the Imgur upload reads, Ted Cruz in drag on Maury.
Here is an image from the official Maury Facebook page:Here is the embed of the post itself:This is beyond despicable.
It s bad enough that this show preys on desperate people to keep their trashy show going and their audience of bottom-feeders entertained, but now they publicly mock them as well?
This young woman cannot help how she looks or who she resembles.
That is not her fault.
Shaming someone s looks on social media is something we d expect from the morons who watch this crap on a daily basis, but it is NOT something the official show page should be doing.
Then again, what can you expect from a show that rolls in the mud for a living and continues to show the world that there is now low they will not stoop to?
This was more than a step too far, though.Maury, you owe this young woman a public apology.
A VERY public apology.
There s just no excuse for this, no matter the demographics of your audience or what you do on that disgusting show of yours.
I suppose it will be too much to ask that you lose viewers over this, because the people who watch your trashy ass show likely aren t educated enough to understand why this is so wrong in the first place.
I don t watch, so I can t deprive you of my viewership, but I CAN call you out.Shame on you, Maury Show and everyone associated with this despicable Facebook post.
You really showed your true colors here today.Featured image via Facebook