Donald Trump and the RNC have had a roller coaster ride of a relationship ever since the establishment was forced to acknowledge that Trump is, in fact, a viable candidate for the party s nomination.
In the beginning, they attempted to separate the Republican National Committee from the racist rhetoric and asinine platform The Donald is running on, only to switch positions when they realized they were setting up a third party run sure to doom the GOP s chances in the general election.After some schmoozing, the unlikely allies seemed to smooth things over, with Trump signing a pledge not to run as a third party candidate and the RNC dialing down the attacks on Trump.
From the committee s standpoint, they had to believe that the nightmare of Trump s campaign would have to flounder and die.
After a close second in Iowa that surely would have been a win had he attended the debate just before caucus day and a landslide win in New Hampshire, Trump moves on to South Carolina still poised to be the number one contender to take on the Democratic favorite in November.Things have been ruffled between Trump and his pals at the RNC again, however, when people started noticing overwhelming applause for establishment favorite Jeb Bush at debates and little support for Trump at the national level.
Could it be that the truce is off?
Could it be that the rift between the establishment of the rich and powerful and the rich and powerful candidate has begun to grow again?That seems likely after the spat between them Saturday when the RNC used Trump s name to raise money for the general election war chest and he exploded over it.
In an email sent out hours before the South Carolina debate, the RNC asked for donations using Trump s name.
The message, asking for between $35 and $250, said: If you put your name on his list of active party supporters, he will proudly see your name next to the amount you chose to donate to the nominee s war chest.
The RNC made the mistake of thinking Donald Trump could possibly care about a war chest for the eventual nominee if there s the slightest chance it won t benefit him.
His narcissism wouldn t allow a simple fundraiser to move forward.
He said in a statement: The RNC does not treat me well and then they use my name, without my knowledge, to raise money for themselves.
This totally unauthorized notice is yet another example of deceptive Washington tricks used to take advantage of the voters and get money from the hard-working people the politicians have failed.
In other words, how dare you use his name without paying for it?
Trump also tweeted to his supporters not to send any cash to the RNC:"Get on Trump's List" email from the RNC was not authorized.
I am self funding my campaign!
Do not pay.
Email: https://t.co/6hKW7Ssxz4 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 13, 2016Petty little billionaire is petty.
The RNC pulled the email from circulation.Featured image from Gage Skidmore