You know the water crisis in Flint, Michigan is bad when a group of white, anti-government militiamen decide that they have to protect a minority community.
Last week, the Genesee County Volunteer Militia (GCVM) put a call out for like-minded patriots to join them in a protest against the tyrannical government in Flint: To help our effort, The GCVM are requesting a show of support on Sunday, January 24, 2016 from Patriots and Patriot groups across the land as a united front, standing with all citizens of the City of Flint, MI.
We ask Militia, Oath Keepers, III%, Home Guard, and all other like groups to wear your uniforms and insignia to this event.
All others are welcome to join us as well!
We ask that you only wear side arms and not long rifles, this is not about our 2nd Amendment, this is about the infringement on the good people of Flint.
.
God Bless the Republic.
The Detroit Free Press reports that about thirty armed militiamen dressed in fatigues showed up for the event on Sunday and handed out clean water to the people in the community.Maj.
Matt Krol, Executive Officer/Information Officer of the GCVM said that his group did not believe it was a racial issue and explained, We re here to defend this community.
We re not going to allow (the government) to step on the people of Flint any longer.
He added: If it means having to take up arms in defense we will do that as well.
Okay, a couple of things here need to be addressed.
First of all, thousands of people would not be sick and ten people would still be alive if Flint was a majority white, upper-class community.
Race very much played a part in what happened, but so did their socioeconomic status.
As we know, the two often go hand in hand.Secondly, arming themselves is not going to make the water in the community clean.
That is just nonsense and it is the kind of insanity that makes the rest of us look at them and think that they are a bunch of nuts even when they are trying to do something good.When this story first popped up across my Facebook newsfeed I thought, Ahhh here come the racist gun nuts trying to make a name for themselves on the backs of the minority community in Flint.
But as it turns out they were joined by African-Americans as well.
Twenty-seven-year-old, La Mont Williams of Chicago defended GCVM and said: There s really no motivation other than the people of Flint need help and we re in the position where we can help People need water.
You can t go three days without drinking water and if you can come out here and help, I ve been met with nothing but love, my little brother has been met with nothing but love and everyone seems to appreciate just two guys coming from Chicago and helping out.
And I m pretty sure, the more the merrier.
The militiamen definitely deserve to be commended for their work this weekend.
While other groups like them often give the movement a bad name, they were really only interested in helping the desperate people in Flint.Bravo.
Watch:Featured image: video screenshot