If you are a young white male in America, apparently you are free to stick your genitalia into whomever you please without having to fear that you will end up in prison.
Consent be damned.
Proof of this is the disgusting case of an Iowa teen who raped a toddler on camera and was given a free pass when he was finally hauled in front of a judge for his repulsive crimes.Kraigen Grooms has admitted to raping the 2-year-old in April of 2013 when he was 16 years old.
Not only did he rape the small child, but he did it on camera so he could livestream the sexual assault for another pervert to watch online.
Investigators believe that the attack was premeditated, and also that he had plans to rape a 3-year-old boy in the same manner.Grooms was arrested in March 2014, when he was 17.
Initially, he was charged with second-degree sexual abuse, a felony that could have put him in prison for 25 years.
However, after spending two years in a juvenile detention center and county jail, he cut a deal and pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of engaging in a lascivious act with a child in July.
This week, Judge Randy Degeest handed Groom, who also goes by the alias Kraigen Simmers, a 10-year suspended sentence and sent him home.This means that he will see absolutely no prison time for raping a 2-year-old.
Let that sink in for a minute.This is just the most recent in a string of high-profile sexual assault cases that have ended with the rapist getting a slap on the wrist and being sent on his way.
The most well-known of these cases being that of Brock Turner, who raped an unconscious woman behind a dumpster and was given just six months in jail, but ended up only serving three before being released.Is there any question that anyone who rapes a toddler a f*cking toddler should be behind bars until hell freezes over?
Is there any question that America s rape culture has spiraled completely out of control when you can rape a 2-year-old, on camera, livestream it on the internet, and not end up in prison?Featured image via KTVO screen capture