Women in Texas may have to literally fight for their freedom and their lives to make sure this Republican lawmaker doesn t get his way.During the presidential campaign in 2016, Donald Trump actually mentioned jail and stated that women should receive some form of punishment for having an abortion.Well, Texas GOP Rep. Tony Tinderholt has introduced House Bill 948, which would punish any woman for having an abortion with prison time.
The legislation contains ZERO exceptions for rape victims, victims of incest, and women who have to have an abortion to save their lives.During an interview with the Texas Observer, Tinderholt claimed that women use abortion as a form of birth control and that they are not personally responsible when they choose to have sex.
Right now, it s real easy, Tinderholt said.
Right now, they don t make it important to be personally responsible because they know that they have a backup of oh, I can just go get an abortion.
Now, we both know that consenting adults don t always think smartly sometimes.
But consenting adults need to also consider the repercussions of the sexual relationship that they re gonna have, which is a child.
Tinderholt went on to interject his religious beliefs as one of his reasons for writing the legislation, stating that women should be forced to carry pregnancies to term because he s a firm believer that God creates children in his own image, regardless of how that child is brought into the world, it s created in his image, and how can someone want to destroy that?
The conservative lawmaker hopes to ban abortion by threatening women with the punishment of prison.Make no mistake, this is the most dangerous and extreme piece of anti-abortion legislation that has been filed across the nation and it would literally punish women for making decisions about their own reproductive health.
The punishment could even extend to women who take birth control pills since many conservatives believe that contraceptives are a form of abortion, even though such medication prevents conception in the first place.
It also could punish women who have natural miscarriages.
The fact that Republicans even want to jail rape victims for refusing to carry their rapist s baby is also monstrous.And now we know why Tony Tinderholt has been divorced four times.
Clearly, the women in his life can t stand him.Featured Image: Woman Survival