This is a shocking story of corruption and collusion even for a Clinton.
Hillary should ve been locked up for this one but instead, her campaign finance director takes the fall.
How ironic that Hillary would admit to a top donor that she doesn t do emails because of being under so many investigations.
That must be a badge of honor for a Democrat .No matter the size of the scandal, Hillary and Bill always find some magical way to escape prosecution.
The scandal seen in the undercover video below shows movie producer Peter Paul discussing emails with Hillary Clinton.
Paul claims he spent $2 million to produce a major fundraising event for Hillary.
Peter Paul admits he hosted the event in order to gain access to the Clintons.
The campaign laws that were in effect at that time limited campaign gifts to $2,000.Watch Peter Paul s stunning story below:Peter Paul s whistleblower site explains the timeline and the significance of the smoking gun video.After [Paul] began to blow the whistle in March, 2001, to four US prosecutors on Hillary s role in the false FEC reports filed by her campaign that hid more than $1.2 million in his expenditures, the Attorney General[ s office ] launched a four year investigation leading to the indictment and trial of Hillary s finance director, David Rosen, in May 2005, for election law fraud.
Rosen was solely indicted for providing information that only he knew was false, to Hillary s treasurer for reporting to the FEC The Federal Judge, Howard Matz, (appointed by the Clintons in 1998) who officiated over the subsequent trial of Rosen in Los Angeles, made ethically questionable statements to the jury, prior to the commencement of the trial, stating unequivocally that Hillary Clinton was not involved in any direct way whatsoever in the illegal fundraiser On Fox News in 2005, Doug Schoen, a former Clinton adviser, said that, The prosecutors and defense attorneys said she is not involved Prosecutors made the decision that Mr. Rosen should be tried, it s a fact-based case.
It has nothing to do with Senator Clinton.
The video appears to directly counter these assertions and instead links Hillary and her aide to the planning of the fundraiser.
Hillary Clinton is not a part of this case In fact, if Clinton participated in the planning of the fundraising event, it: would make Paul s substantial contributions a direct donation to her Senate campaign rather than her joint fundraising committee, violating federal statutes that limit hard money contributions to a candidate to $2,000 per person.
Knowingly accepting or soliciting $25,000 or more in a calendar year is a felony carrying a prison sentence of up to five years In the tape, Clinton is heard via speakerphone thanking Paul, business partner Stan Lee and other colleagues for their efforts in putting together the fundraiser She also describes the role of longtime aide Kelly Craighead as assisting in day-to-day involvement in preparation for the event as her liaison with Paul and his producers Craighead, Clinton says, talks all the time with Paul, so she ll be the person to convey whatever I need.
The aide s hands-on role is significant, because the law also implicates a candidate if any of his or her agents are involved in coordinating expenditures with a donor In another portion of the tape, Clinton is heard discussing her direct solicitation of a large contribution from the entertainer Cher.
Paul s legal team, the U.S. Justice Foundation, argues the value of Cher s performance alone vastly exceeded the FEC limits The Hillary Clinton Felony Video The video itself is fascinating.
The preface to the tape states that it shows Hillary Clinton in the process of committing at least four or five felonies under federal election law -Via: Doug Ross JournalPeter Paul filed and won a civil suit against the Clinton s in 2010.
The segment below is from the Supreme Court precedent setting film Hillary The Movie by Citizens United, shows the polygraph test taken by Hillary s largest donor, Peter Paul, corroborating his claims the Clintons promised to have Bill Clinton work with his public company in exchange for Paul paying more than $1.2 million to elect Hillary to her first political office.
This video supports the allegations in the civil fraud suit filed by Paul in 2003 and settled with the Clintons in 2010.