Attendees at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference were seen waving Russian flags with Trump stamped on them.
Whether this was a trolling operation remains to be seen but the flag wavers were reportedly Trump supporters.
It s a tough call with conservatives remaining unconcerned over Trump s ties to Russia, even though the alleged president is plagued with scandals.Reporter Peter Hamby shared the news on Twitter.
Staffers at CPAC staffers rushed over to confiscate the flags.Crowd at CPAC waving these little pro-Trump flags that look exactly like the Russian flag.
Staffers quickly come around to confiscate them.
pic.twitter.com/YhPpkwFCNc Peter Hamby (@PeterHamby) February 24, 2017When asked by a Twitter user if the flag wavers were protesters, Hamby said they were unwitting college kids.
No.
Unwitting college kids.
https://t.co/7iwxB66WA5 Peter Hamby (@PeterHamby) February 24, 2017On the air, MSNBC s Kasie Hunt said, In the room there was back and forth about a section of the crowd that appeared to be waving Russian flags.
I just want to clear that up.
It seems that people who were waving them may have been unwitting.
They appeared to be people who were celebrating president trump here, she added.
They were participating in chants of USA, USA .
While chanting USA!
USA!
USA!, the Trump supporters literally waved Russian flags.
That s totally not weird at all.Wait so some Trump supporters were waving RUSSIAN FLAGS while chanting USA!
USA!
at the CPAC Convention????
WTH???
??
James Jackson (@mahantaji) February 24, 2017#CPAC crowd waving pro-Trump flags that look exactly like #Russia flag.
You can t make this stuff up.
pic.twitter.com/t2PZdOXvaf Abraham White (@abwhite7) February 24, 2017This is not a joke: Trump s CPAC flags look EXACTLY like little Russian flags.
??Coincidence?
pic.twitter.com/I2IapEEXej Mikel Jollett (@Mikel_Jollett) February 24, 2017Putin s GOP at CPAC are now waving Russian flags with TRUMP printed on them.
He s just rubbing our noses in it now, no pretence whatsoever pic.twitter.com/u3lMRP7Bf2 A Once Great Nation (@USARedOrchestra) February 24, 2017Trump fans at CPAC wave mini Russian flags during Trump s speechhttps://t.co/McoISQBogq pic.twitter.com/TyMd5QVAsf Sky Palma (@DeadStateTweets) February 24, 2017Also seen, was an attendee wearing a Make Russia Great Again t-shirt.Spotted: A guy wearing a Make Russia Great Again t-shirt.
#CPAC2017 Sarah Posner (@sarahposner) February 24, 2017Trump at CPAC .America .America .then you see Russian flags all throughout the crowd???
Traitors!!!
pic.twitter.com/sKDWql7pzb Beckoh (@beckoh) February 24, 2017Trump s #CPAC Speech:An abject nightmare come-to-life where Americans proudly wave Russian flags pic.twitter.com/tlC4i8RcQt LiNCOLN PARK (@linc0lnpark) February 24, 2017CPAC attendees waving little Trump Russian flags is the first honest thing I ve seen come out of #CPAC2017 LivingBlue (@LivingBlueinRed) February 24, 2017Those pro-Trump flags at CPAC look a lot like Russian tricolors.
?
pic.twitter.com/IdBnxx2QbG ian bremmer (@ianbremmer) February 24, 2017This is really bad timing for Trump.
Explosive revelations were reported yesterday stating that the FBI refused the White House s request to publicly knock down media reports regarding communications between Trump s associates and Russians known to U.S. intelligence during the 2016 presidential campaign.
That exact type of behavior led to Richard Nixon s resignation in 1974.Image via Twitter.