Veterans are the backbone of the biker community We are patriots We love our cops The antithesis of the Black Lives Matter radicals Breitbart Exclusive: A large group of patriotic motorcycle enthusiasts will be among the visitors to Cleveland Ohio next week for the Republican National Committee meeting that will nominate business mogul Donald Trump to be the Republican nominee for President of the United States.Bikers for Trump aren t going to Cleveland looking to cause trouble but will be on hand to counter thousands of professional leftwing agitators planning to disrupt the Republican nominating convention.
We will be there to make sure that the delegates are allowed to exercise their right to peacefully assemble, Bikers for Trump organizer Chris Cox told Breitbart News in an exclusive interview.
We ve seen how these paid agitators have thrown eggs and gotten violent at other Trump events around the country and we re not going to put up with it.
Cox emphasized that Bikers for Trump weren t looking for trouble at the convention.
Veterans are the backbone of the biker community, Cox continued.
We are patriots and unlike Black Lives Matter and the other leftist idiots, we love our cops.
You won t find one biker in Cleveland jumping on cars, lighting fires, or doing any of the other stupid things we ve gotten used to seeing on TV the last few months.
Big Jim Williams of Riders USA held a Bikers for Trump sign up at a rally in Arizona on July 10th, 2015 and the photo went viral.
I went to that first Trump rally with my Bikers for Trump sign and the next day the picture was all over the internet, Big Jim told Breitbart News.
Donald Trump will say the things that need to be said and do the things that most politicians are too afraid to do.
Big Jim will be making the long ride from Phoenix to Cleveland to be in Cleveland during the convention and he sent a letter to his fellow bikers telling them why they should join him.
In a copy of the letter provided to Breitbart News he says:None of the bikers Breitbart News spoke with wanted to say how many would attend.
The city of Cleveland gave us a hard time with our permits and so we haven t really counted how many people are coming, Cox said.
It s probably better because I want to work with all the other people who are drawn to be there.
I ll be meeting with the secret service and the state and local police to let them know what we re all about.
The bikers have also had significant success spreading the word on social media.
The Facebook, Bikers for Trump 2016 has more than 70,000 likes and has had months in which their reach counted in the millions.
This video posted in April has nearly 250,000 views:Via: Breitbart