Amateur president Donald Trump blasted rival Hillary Clinton while on the campaign trail as low energy.
He said Clinton takes naps and added, No naps for Trump.
I don t take naps.
We don t have time!
Since that time, Trump has taken three vacations, gone an a thank you tour and on Saturday, he held a rally less than a month after being sworn in.
Trump is not handling the presidency very well.
Adjusting to the most difficult job in the world hasn t been easy for the 70-year-old.
This from a man who said in reference to ISIS, I alone can fix it.
Perhaps Trump didn t really want the job.
He did want adoration from his supporters, though.According to Axios Mike Allen s latest newsletter, a Trump adviser told him that Trump is experiencing cabin fever in the White House.Business Insider reports:Trump is reportedly experiencing headaches and frustration that he can t spend his evenings dining at restaurants like he could around Trump Tower in his old neighborhood in New York City.Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders were both far more qualified for the job but Trump supporters thought bringing in a man with zero political experience was the way to go.Instead of doing his job, Trump held a campaign-style rally in Melbourne, Florida Saturday in which he filled his speech with lie after lie.
That was just after he blasted the fake news media.
By the way, he s given press credentials to a fake news site.
Whatever Trump accuses someone of, he s guilty of that same thing.During the rally, Trump tried to defend his Muslim ban by fabricating a terror attack in Sweden which never happened.Allen writes that that blunder was partially about Trump management.
That s three fake terror attacks team Trump has used to defend his travel ban of citizens from seven predominately Muslim countries, none of which committed an act of terror on U.S. soil.Trump is to spend Sunday interviewing candidates to replace Mike Flynn, the disgraced former national security adviser who was ousted over his conversations with a Russian ambassador about lifting sanctions.Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images.