The stats don t lie on this one Obama s hoping to reach the low information voter who watches Letterman and will buy this bs.
The stimulus under Obama gave BILLIONS for work programs and education but we still need to give more???
As a taxpaying American I am 100% FED Up!
and ready for the black community to take responsibility for their towns and their youth.
We DO NOT ignore pockets of poverty but I would say that we ignore the truth of what s going on in the black community and what s the real problem here.
It s just like when the main stream media ignores and covers up the bad behavior of groups of black teens.
We ve reported on numerous cases of this bad behavior that caused damage and physical harm to others.
The latest case was ironically in Baltimore and the local press called the offenders kids when you can see clearly that these are teens.
Downplaying and not punishing the bad behavior by these teens only makes it worse.
No consequences breeds chaos President Obama said that too often we ignore pockets of poverty, lack of opportunity, lack of education on Monday s Late Show on CBS.Obama said, it s important that now that charges have been brought in Baltimore, that we let due process play itself out.
Those officers who have been charged, they deserve, to be represented, and to let the legal system work its way through.
We don t have all the facts yet, and that that s going to be presented in a court of law.
I think it s also really important to remember that the overwhelming number of police officers are doing an outstanding job, we re in New York, today, we re in New York today, where a young officer lost his life doing his job, and families of officers all across the country every day, they re wondering is my loved one going to come home?
And so they ve got a really tough job.
He continued, what we also know, though, is that for far too long, for decades, you have a situation in which too many communities don t have a relationship of trust with the police, and if you just have a handful of police who are not doing the right thing, that makes the job tougher for all the other police officers out there.
It creates an environment in the community where they feel as if, rather than being protected and served, they re the targets of arbitrary arrests or stops, and so our job has to be to rebuild trust, and we put forward a task force made up of police officers, but also young activists who have been protesting in Ferguson, or here in New York.
They came up with some terrific recommendations about collecting data on what happens when there s a shooting involving police, what are we doing in terms of things like body cameras, and so there s some very practical, concrete things we can do to make the system work better.
Read more: Breitbart