It s no secret that Bill Maher, comedian extraordinaire and host of HBO s Real Time, is no fan of GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump.
So, of course he couldn t resist live tweeting the entire first general election presidential debate between Trump and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
The whole thing was one brilliant insult against Trump after another.
Here are a few of the better tweets:GOP won expectations game when it nominated an orangutan.
As long as he doesn't fling his poop, "Surprisingly dignified Trump last night" Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016Want to see Hillary come out and say "The Russians just handed me your tax returns" just to see if Trump bolts Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016Trump adjusting his Spanx right now, and one final pass with the can of Final Net Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016Trump proud of himself that he called her "Secretary Clinton" as opposed to what, Bitchula?
Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016Trump.
Wearing a tie made in China, just sayin' Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016OK,I hope she's playing rope-a-dope, and I do mean dope, because I'm getting tired of this vile nincompoop bullying and lieing and its early Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016Trump: "Being in Iraq was a disaster, but we shld take the oil"WE WLD HAVE TO BE BACK IN IRAQ TO TAKE THE OIL!
They won't give it to a drone Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016btw, you know a charge agst Trump is 100% provably true when he interrupts with "Wrong!"
#debates Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016And, of course, for his closers, Maher had to do what he s been doing on his show ever since it became clear who the nominees would be, and hit those who refuse to vote for Hillary:However this comes out, I have so little respect for the electorate just that its this close.
She's right, she shld be 50 points ahead.
Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016But he definitely saved his best line for last, as he called Trump his favorite phrase:Negative ads in a political race are "not nice?"
There's no crying in politics, you #WhinyLittleBitch!
Bill Maher (@billmaher) September 27, 2016Let s face it, no matter how Trump s surrogates try to spin this and they are already out in force doing their damndest he lost this thing tonight, badly.
He made an absolute fool of himself.
There s just no way around it.
Of course, his uneducated core supporters will still vote for him, but there s no way this one got the undecided voters into Trump s corner.
The one thing tonight did do, though, is give us plenty of entertainment.Featured image via Sara D. Davis/Getty Images