Scott and Clint Eastwood are a great father/son duo in their latest interview with Esquire magazine.
The banter between the two is so good that you just know they have a close relationship.
They look so much alike it s pretty amazing.The best parts of the interview are Clint s honest assessment of the p*ssy generation In true Eastwood style, he calls out all of the people who re calling everything under the sun racist .
You ve gotta love his common sense attitude when he tells those offended liberals to just get over it .
He s a Trump guy and totally understands where Trump is coming.
You ll love his assessment of Hillary it s dead on!In an interview with Esquire published Wednesday, the actor/director/producer said young America which he has dubbed both the kiss-ass and pussy generation needs to stop throwing the word racist around so freely.
Trump s onto something, because secretly everybody s getting tired of political correctness, kissing up, he said.
We re really in a pussy generation.
Everybody s walking on eggshells.
We see people accusing people of being racist and all kinds of stuff.
When I grew up, those things weren t called racist.
Eastwood also said that he isn t inclined to support Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton if she continues upholding the status quo.
I d have to go for Trump you know, cause she s declared that she s gonna follow in Obama s footsteps, he said.
There s been just too much funny business on both sides of the aisle.
She s made a lot of dough out of being a politician.
I gave up dough to be a politician.
Though Eastwood said he hasn t formally endorsed anybody, he dismissed the furor caused by Trump s comments about the Mexican heritage of Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who presided over federal lawsuits against Trump University.
Yeah, it s a dumb thing to say.
I mean, to predicate your opinion on the fact that the guy was born to Mexican parents or something.
He s said a lot of dumb things.
So have all of them.
Both sides, Eastwood said.
But everybody the press and everybody s going, Oh, well, that s racist, and they re making a big hoodoo out of it.
Just f ing get over it.
It s a sad time in history.
Read more: The Wrap