If you haven t been paying attention then you wouldn t know that this administration has literally thrown us to the wolves.
The UN and radical liberals in the Obama administration are so hell bent on the global society that they are flooding us with muslim refugees and illegals in the name of diversity.
The bleeding heart liberals feel the need to shove what they want down your throat without any consideration for the cost to you.
If there is one thing President Barack Obama has accomplished for Islam, it was exposing to jihadists the horrendously soft underbelly of the present day West.During his seven year long hold over America, Obama was the first western leader to fundamentally transform a once thriving nation into a helpless borderless state.
Like most of his policies, the borderless country concept was not his original idea, but one he adopted from the global citizen-advocating United Nations.In the upheaval caused by millions of refugees flooding European borders, too many remain unaware that the imprimatur of a defenseless west was both laid bare and originated by none other than Barack Obama.In their centuries-old dream of imposing a Caliphate on the civilized world, the bloodthirsty terrorists of radical Islam didn t have to read teacups this time.
They only had to follow Obama s Hansel and Gretel-like bread crumbs to find a surefire way into the West.Almost overnight the same ISIS terrorists Obama refused to name went from graphic Internet videos of beheadings to heartbreaking photos of Muslim refugees , mostly women and children dying in desperate attempts to reach Europe.For Obama, Marxist superiority went all the way from not crossing his media hyped red line to zero lines of defense for the safety of unsuspecting citizens worldwide.The blueprint for taking over the West was there for everyone including the enemy to clearly see.With no boots on the ground and using air strikes for show, Australia, Bahrain, Canada, France, Jordan, Morocco, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom flocked to Obama for the useless Coalition of the Unwilling .
As the videos got more graphic by day and the media dubbed terrorists with nicknames like Jihadi John of John Lennon Beatle fame, it becomes easy to understand the rush to the coalition.Perhaps it was easier to think in the beginning that air strikes and drones would frighten off the terrorists.But recognizing that no boots on the ground meant no hearts in the fight, the terrorists continued the slaughter of innocents, sending out horrific videos as proof.At the end of the day, the Coalition of the Unwilling, the west s answer to the ISIS decapitation videos, laid bare to jihadists that the west had no stomach for swift and substantial retaliation to raging radical Islam.
There are 20 million refugees waiting at the doorstep of Europe, said Johannes Hahn, EU Commissioner for European Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations.
(Gatestone Institute, Sept. 14, 2015) Many claim that Europe, facing the crisis produced by the huge influx of Muslim migrants and refugees fleeing mainly Syria and Iraq, should open its doors.
But given the realities in Europe and the Muslim world, this suggestion may well be harmful to both the West and to the Muslim world.
One of the most common arguments is that Europe is not doing enough for the Muslim refugees and is actually responsible for the turmoil in Syria as well as the rest of the Muslim world.
The current wars in the Middle East, however, are not the fault of the West.
Obviously, the Obama administration and European governments must do more to stop the bloodbath in the Muslim world, but to say that the wars in the region are the product of Western intervention or some other Western plots just shows how clueless and ignorant the people who make such claims are about the history of Islam.
Islamic scriptures call on Muslims to wage war on other religions to bring them under submission to Islam.
Muhammad, the founder of Islam, said that he was ordered by Allah to fight men until they testify that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad is his messenger.
Finding room for the biggest wave of refugees since World War II has become a sort of holier-than-thou count game for politically correct western leaders.
We re taking in 10,000 more today .
How many have you taken in?
are now prolific claims on the Internet.Even the pope, who all but ignores the plight of Christians at the hands of Islam, but has called on all dioceses to make room under their roof for Syrian refugees, is in on the act.Making full-bore use of the heart-rending picture of little Alan Kurdi even though the circumstances of his death have been since proven fallacious the mainstream media keeps up with the pretense that the Syrian refugees are poor people fleeing the four-and-a-half-year-old Syrian civil war for their very lives.This is the same media that fails to report that terrorists are hiding among the refugees and that the inflow is mostly able-bodied men with few women and children in their midst.Meanwhile, the Islamic terrorists have strategized a way to take over Europe, with a foolproof strategy handed to them by Barack Hussein Obama.If the Muslim invasion of the West has just started to get your attention, this video will catch you up on how Europe is being transformed into an Islamic caliphate right before your eyes Keep in mind that all these scenes took place BEFORE the recent surge of millions of illegal alien Muslim invaders flooding Europe, the majority of whom are freeloaders looking for welfare, and a significant minority who are rapists and potential terrorists.
Show this to all your bleeding heart liberal friends:One Hour Compilation of how Islam is Ruining Europe and America