Move over, Storm-From-X-Men!
In addition to having gigantic hands (the most giganticestest in the world, no less!
), a huge dong (you can see it from space), and a daughter he totally doesn t want to sleep with (or does he?
), Donald Trump has managed to pick up a new ally: an old white dude who can control the weather!In his effort to pander to evangelicals, Trump has enlisted the aid of Frank Amedia, a televangelist who blames AIDS on unnatural sex who entered into a conspiracy to fix a court case for a friend in 2001.
He s also able to control the weather through the power of Jesus, or something.Amedia, who now serves as the billionaire s liaison for Christian policy, claims that he personally saved his daughter from disaster when an earthquake off the coast of Japan sent a tsunami to a Hawaiian island on which his precious little snowflake was staying.
Thanks to the power of prayer and an ego large enough to think that an omnipotent being would even notice him, let alone do him a solid, Trump s God guy says he was able to talk his BFF into stopping the tsunami just off the shore of the island.
I stood at the edge of my bed and I said, In the name of Jesus, I declare that tsunami to stop now, he says in a video in which he tells the tale of that time he and God went all X-Men on that storm.
And I specifically said, I declare those waters to recede, and I said, Father, that is my child, I am your child, I m coming to you now and asking you to preserve her.
Apostle, it was seen by 400 people on a cliff.
It was on YouTube, it was actually on the news that that tsunami stopped 200 feet off of shore.
Even after having sucked the waters in, it churned and it went on and did devastation in the next island.
Interestingly, he seems entirely unconcerned with the people who live on the next island over.
Maybe there are limits to God s power and these Christians know better than to ask him to do more than save their own skins.Last December, a Texas woman also exhibited this strange weather control power.
Sabrina Lowe of Rowlett says she saved her family s lives when she asked God to redirect a tornado to a neighboring town.
Apparently, God listened.
Lowe s family was spared, but the tornado went on to kill an additional eight people.
While little is known about these rare superhuman powers, it seems that weather control thus far has a rather limited scope.
Further study is needed.Watch Amedia talk about his weather control capabilities below:Featured image via screengrab