Because being a young adult in college, getting good grades, preparing for a future career and making the right choices isn t hard enough.
The college needs to bring people in to encourage you to have free sex.
Not just sex but LOTS of sex At a workshop-style event last week, students at the University of Maryland, College Park were taught How to F*** in College.
Sex ed expert Francisco Ramirez, who has a master s degree in public health and has provided sexual health training for organizations including MTV, the UN, and Planned Parenthood, taught the workshop as part of a college speaking series by the same name.During the presentation, Ramirez used a series of GIFs to convey sexual tips ranging from how to give a blow job to how to apply lube effortlessly.Unusual sexual advice was given throughout the workshop.
Ramirez recommended that students ask their parents to purchase a mechanical hand sanitizer to dispense lube, for instance, and gave advice on how to prevent syrups from going inside a lover s urethra when attempting the grapefruit technique.
A screen shot from Francisco Ramirez website: If you re going to be using the grapefruit technique, he cautioned, really make sure to use mild soap and water afterwards.
When asked their favorite locations for sex, the students, some of whom live on campus, gleefully offered up the kitchen, the bathroom, and even on the rug, prompting Ramirez to recommend that they clean up after having sex, a directive that he humorously reinforced by delivering it while standing beneath a prominent image of Mr. Clean.
I am not sexphobic but [sic] you might think it s kinda hot seeing somebody s pubic hair you re kinda like [sic] feel good about that, Ramirez told the class while animatedly flipping his hair, but not your roommate.
He later went into further details on how his roommates would leave dildos, carrots, and a jar of peanut butter on his bed and inside his shower.Ramirez also lectured on the stigma of the walk of shame and the double standards of how women are perceived when returning to their homes the morning after a sexual encounter.
He then instructed students to practice their walk of shame and to give no f -s. Here is an example of this freaks work:During the anonymous Q and A portion, Ramirez was asked why abstinence is not encouraged, and whether promoting sex into our culture increases the chances of rape on campus.
It s not like we re either f -ing or we re not f -ing or we re masturbating or not masturbating, because at the end of the day we are all sexual beings, he explained.
We re already in a sexual relationship with our genitals even if we re asexual.
He also mentioned at one point that most sexually active adults have an STI [sexually transmitted infection] and that s okay.
Via: Campus Reform