The religious right s attempt to stop women from exercising their legal right to an abortion is facing its biggest setback in years.
After realizing that national abortion laws are a no-go, especially with a Democratic president, conservatives have attempted to use their control of state governments in order to roll back women s rights.But the recent 5-3 Supreme Court decision in the case of Whole Woman s Health v. Hellerstedt found that many of the roadblocks erected by the religious right through the Republican Party have put an undue burden on women seeking abortion services, and have to be struck down.As a result, there is a wave of anti-choice legislation being undone.Since Monday, laws restricting abortion and non-abortion Planned Parenthood funding have already been temporarily or permanently wiped out in six states.
The Center for Reproductive Rights filed a new case Friday challenging a whopping seven of Louisiana s new abortion restrictions.
And on the heels of Whole Woman s Health, Planned Parenthood Federation of America announced an effort to pursue repealing laws in eight states through legislatures.
(Even lawmakers hostile to abortion may prefer the less expensive option of repealing a law, rather than having to defend one that is unlikely to stand after the Supreme Court s decision.
)Now, Republican lawmakers who had planned more abortion restrictions are being forced to put their plans on ice or give up on them completely.
They no longer have a blank check for their attacks on women s rights.And the right has a problem nationally.
While polls show voters believe in some restrictions on choice, most Americans believe that a woman has a right to abortion services.
The support is even higher among women, and Republicans have ceased to be a majority in presidential elections largely thanks to votes from women.
It is a losing case for them to be so opposed to abortion rights.In this year s election, Hillary Clinton has already been hammering Donald Trump on choice.
Clinton of course supports abortion rights, while since the campaign began Trump has argued in favor of punishment for women who get abortions once they are outlawed (as the Republican Party platform calls for).The current Supreme Court vacancy will be key to future battles over abortion, as will vacancies that are likely to open up over the next four years, in large part due to the advanced age of several of the justices, including liberal stalwart Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Featured image via Flickr