On March 31, 2015 Sergeant Andrew Tahmooressi was driving with his friends to go to a Mexican restaurant and accidentally missed the last exit before the Mexican border.
Without the ability to turn around before he crossed the border, he proceeded to the Mexican customs post, where he explained that he missed the exit before the crossing, and volunteered that he had three US legal guns in the vehicle.
After that, Sergeant Andrew Tahmooressi was arrested and charged with gun smuggling into Mexico.While we all understand the problem of illicit arms and drug smuggling between Mexico and the US, it is clear that Sergeant Andrew Tahmooressi was not part of it.
He made an honest mistake, admitted it to the Mexican border agents, and was arrested anyway.
His admission and cooperation with the Mexican authorities strongly attest to his innocent intent.Tahmooressi was released in November when a Mexican judge was finally convinced to do so on humanitarian grounds.
His lengthy prison stay became a farce and a failure under the Obama administration, culminating in a September congressional hearing that was highly critical of Obama Administration efforts to secure his release and Mexico s refusal to let him go.
With the swipe of a pen on Wednesday, President Trump green lighted the construction of a border wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and vastly increased the presence of border agents.
Mexican President Enrique Pe a Nieto soon expressed regret over the new U.S. leader s actions and pledged to protect Mexicans already in the States.
Where there is a Mexican migrant at risk that requires our support, your country should be there, Pe a Nieto said in a brief address to his nation, which he said was a response to Trump s actions earlier in the day.
Our communities are not alone, Pe a Nieto said.
The Mexican Government will provide them with the legal advice, which guarantees the protection they require.The 50 Mexican consulates in the U.S. will be advocating on behalf of Mexicans, Nieto explained.
He added (again) that he does not intend to pay for Trump s border wall.
Mexico offers and demands respect as the fully sovereign nation we are, he insisted.BREAKING: Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto says he has informed the White House he has canceled trip to Washington.
The Associated Press (@AP) January 26, 2017Nieto is apparently so distressed by Trump s executive actions that he is considering canceling their scheduled meeting for next week, where they were due to discuss not only immigration, but trade.Trump said that if Nieto is not willing to pay for the wall, he can go ahead and cancel.
Townhall