Independent voter Chris Sullivan went to the polls in Princeton, Texas on Super Tuesday, intending to cast a ballot in the Democratic primary.Sullivan says that a poll worker at Princeton High School, located in Collin County, Texas, instructed him to select any voting machine, saying that it didn t matter if he was voting for a Republican or a Democrat.Once Sullivan had selected a machine, however, he says it locked his vote in for a Republican candidate.As a result of being locked into a republican ballot, Sullivan says he was unable to cast his vote in the primary election.Following the debacle, he took to voice his outrage at having his vote stolen by GOP cheats.Image credit: screen capture, Chris Sullivan on FacebookAddicting Info spoke to Sullivan on March 2.He clarified what happened further, saying, It wasn t that I was directed to the wrong line I was specifically told by one of the people at the desk that it didn t matter what party I chose, I could vote for anyone.
Sullivan also told us that the poll worker he spoke to was clearly not neutral.
I was standing behind a couple and the woman (poll worker) asked if they were voting republican.
When they said yes, she replied good cause I already locked you in.
It might be easier to dismiss what happened to Sullivan as an error, as opposed to deliberate cheating, had he not overheard the same worker giving very different instructions to the Republican couple.Sullivan also told us that he felt like there was a strong push to vote Republican, from the poll workers.While he s not sure if any other Collin County voters had a similar experience, Sullivan says that he has already contacted attorneys for the Bernie Sanders campaign to report what happened.
He also plans to report his experience to the Texas Attorney General s office today.As reported here, Democratic voters in Georgia also may have had their votes stolen, thanks to Republican dirty tricks.Brianna Fleener was one of many Democratic voters who were issued Republican ballots in Lowndes County, GA.
I show up, I fill out the paper and I give it to the man at the counter, Fleener told ValdostaToday.
Next, I was given a card to insert into the machine, and when I pulled up the screen I realized I was given the wrong ballot.
Fleener says that several other Democratic voters were also given Republican ballots.
As I look around, I notice I m not the only one.
Turns out that anyone voting Democrat received a Republican ballot.
After making some phone calls, we were told we could fix it, but we were showing up in the system as voted when none of us had casted our ballots.
Democrats may not have been the only ones cheated out of their votes by the GOP on Super Tuesday.Austin s KLBJ radio station was flooded with calls claiming that voting machines were flipping votes from Donald Trump to other GOP candidates.Listen to the vote flipping accusations, reported to KLBJ, via Raw Story on YouTube: Image credit: imagebuddy.com, photoshop