Donald Trump s media supporters are working overtime this week trying to defend his wiretapping accusations against President Obama.On Saturday, Trump openly made the accusation on Twitter without providing a single shred of evidence to back up his assertion.
Trump made the claim after reading a conspiracy theory on Breitbart and even called for Congress to investigate.Again, Trump has provided no proof to support his accusation and an accusation without proof doesn t justify an investigation.Trump has had days to provide such evidence and has failed to produce any.
But Trump supporter Kayleigh McEnany claimed during a panel discussion on CNN on Monday night that Trump has evidence that he will release sometime in the future.
And she got totally owned for it by Anderson Cooper.McEnany insisted that Trump has evidence that President Obama wiretapped Trump Tower.
But Cooper was quick to remind her that if that were true he would have released it by now and that it would be easy for Trump to confirm whether his accusation is true or not simply by asking certain intelligence and law enforcement agencies.
But we know this by now, the president could know this by now by picking up the phone if he really believed this and if he s really that mad about this, he can find out the information, Cooper said.
He s the most powerful guy in the United States, in the world.
Indeed, but FBI Director James Comey has already strongly shot down Trump s accusation, and former National Intelligence Director James Clapper said on Sunday that he would have been informed had President Obama ordered such a wiretap, whether legal or not.Cooper then dropped the hammer by pointing out that if Trump really had evidence he wouldn t be demanding an investigation by Congress.
If he had that information, why is he saying that it s President Obama who did this personally and why is he calling for a congressional investigation to find out when he could find out?
Cooper asked.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump does not have evidence to back up his serious accusation against President Obama.
He knows that he is slandering him and is desperately turning to Republicans in Congress to help him manufacture proof that is nonexistent.
If Trump had any proof at all he would be screaming it out from the rooftops to prove that he was right.
Because he s too much of a narcissist to keep that kind of information to himself.Featured image via screenshot