The American Health Care Plan, a.k.a.
AHCA or Trumpcare, didn t get the vote Thursday that it was supposed to because there are too many Republicans in Congress that won t vote for it.
Trump has been trying to bully them into doing so, including threatening the jobs of Republicans who vote against it.
Now, though, he s made what he no doubt thinks is his most terrifying threat yet, except it s really not.He s threatened to leave Obamacare in place if Trumpcare fails in Congress.If you re sitting there scratching your head, you aren t alone.
The ACA, also known as the dreaded Obamacare, would remain in place and intact regardless of what Trump does.
The question is who would be responsible for that, politically, and the answer is and has always been Republicans.
Trump seems to think he can hold that over their heads to force a vote.Mick Mulvaney, the White House s budget director, has even told House Republicans that Trump is done with negotiations and just wants a vote now.
He said that if they vote the bill down, then Trump will just proceed to work on other parts of his agenda.
Which, really, is the obvious option.One has to ask: Does Trump really think that he s going to cow intransigent Republicans this way?
Should Trumpcare fail, the ACA would remain the law of the land regardless of what Trump does because he can t repeal it all on his own.There are House Republicans that aren t part of the intransigent Freedom Caucus who have said they can t back the modified bill, which is considerably worse than the original bill.
There s also the fact that Senate Republicans have already said they don t have the votes to pass Trumpcare.To appease one side, such as the Freedom Caucus, Republicans have to alienate another side, like moderates.
They re stuck between a rock and a hard place on this and it s a situation that Trump s bullying can t really make worse.There s a small chance that the bill will pass the House tomorrow, but with the Freedom Caucus and moderates being unhappy with the bill, it will probably fail.
If it fails, Obamacare will remain the law of the land.
Republicans already know they ll bear the burden of that.
Trump s threat is ridiculous.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images