A lot about America has changed since the rise of Donald Trump.
People thought that his coarse language, his clear racism and misogyny, and just generally appalling behavior would render him unacceptable to the American public.
Yet, here we are.
Donald Trump is president, and his young administration has fundamentally changed how the world views America, its citizens, and its government.
One thing that hasn t changed though is the way some strident and brave media personalities continue to speak truth to power and insist on making sure that Trump s disgusting ways, his incompetence, and his lies don t fundamentally change who we are as a people.
Perhaps the breakout star in that regard is CNN s Jake Tapper.Tapper hosts The Lead during the week, and State of the Union on Sunday mornings.
On Friday night, the fiery host stopped by HBO s Real Time to have a chat with host Bill Maher.
Of course, Maher had to ask about the changes Tapper has had to make now that there s the biggest liar on earth occupying the Oval Office.
Tapper responded: You ve been covering politicians for a long time.
Politicians lie.
It wasn t invented on Jan. 20.
I ve never seen this level of falsehood, quantitatively.
Tapper went on to distinguish between what happens with say, falsehoods that happened with the Obama Administration such as, If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor.
He says of the lies coming out of the Trump White House: It s conspiracy theories based on nothing that have members of his own party distancing themselves from him.
Then the conversation turns to Trump s vulgarity and other fundamental affronts to basic human decency in public discourse.
Tapper says of the way Trump behaved on the campaign trail and how he continues to behave: The truth of the matter is that there is no bias when it comes to facts and there s no bias when it comes to decency.
It s empirically indecent to make fun of the disabled.
That s just indecent.
My children know better than that.
The two hosts then went on to reference what we all know which is that most of the fundamental things that make Trump so awful, we all learn not to do in grade school.
Maher says:I always think about that book Everything I Needed to Know I learned in Kindergarten.
He violates every rule.
Don t lie, don t accuse people of things they re not guilty of.
Don t boast.
Pay your taxes.
Serve your country.
Don t be a racist, don t insult like you say the handicapped people or other people who are not as lucky to be as great looking as you are, Donald.
And yet, in spite of all of these things, people still voted for this fundamentally indecent, sorry excuse for a human being.
That says things about this nation that we really need to examine, should we survive this nightmare of a presidency.
Watch the video below:Featured image via Scott Eisen/Getty Images