Every time a school shooting happens, the idiots on the right yank out the memes and propaganda declaring that the school being a gun free zone is why it was chosen.
They call the shooter a lone wolf or mentally ill and point out this his sister s college roommate was a Democrat.
The gun had nothing to do with it, and had there been more guns in the school it wouldn t have gone down how it did.On that one they are correct.
Most experts agree that if you put more guns in a dangerous situation, especially where people are running and panicking, you re going to end up with a deadly crossfire and more people will die senselessly.
Still, the NRA-controlled Republican party stands by their platform of more guns for everyone, no matter who, in every situation, no matter what.
Going out for breakfast?
Bring your gun; a criminal (who has every right to a gun) might be there with a gun.
Headed to the movies?
Arm yourself.
Some mentally ill guy with a gun (who has every right to carry it) may be there looking to calm the voices in his head.Guns, guns, guns.
With more than 300 million instruments of death in circulation, not including the homemade versions, the likelihood that we ll ever see an end to the senseless violence is pretty slim.
All we can do is point out the stupidity, abhor the violence and mock the hypocrisy when we see it happening around us.
That s exactly what one anonymous liberal did when he or she wrote and uploaded a petition to change.org.The Republican National Convention, you see, is being held at the Quicken Loans Arena, which is a gun free zone.
What better way to make them eat their own stupid words than at their official clown convention.
The petition, a masterpiece of leftist trollery, takes aim at the Party, its leaders and base by calling for the following five points of action:1.
From the Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland: A suspension of their policy preventing the open carry of firearms on the premises of the arena from July 18-21, 2016 to coincide with the Republican National Convention.2.
From the National Rifle Association: An immediate condemnation of the egregious affront to the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution constituted by the gun-free zone loophole to the state law.3.
From Ohio Governor John Kasich: A concerted effort to use his executive authority to override the gun-free zone loophole being exploited by the Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland, Ohio.4.
From Reince Priebus and the Republican National Committee: An explanation of how a venue so unfriendly to Second Amendment rights was chosen for the Republican Convention.
Further, we demand a contingency plan to relocate the convention to another location should the Quicken Loans Arena refuse to honor the constitutional rights of the RNC guests to open carry firearms during the convention.5.
From all Republican candidates for President: You have been brave in raising awareness about the immense dangers posed by gun-free zones.
In order to ensure the safety of your supporters, delegates and all attendees at the convention in July, you must call upon the RNC to rectify this affront to our Second Amendment freedoms and insist upon a suspension of the Quicken Loans Arena s unconstitutional gun-free zone loophole.
Every American is endowed with a God-given Constitutional right to carry a gun wherever and whenever they please.The best part about this masterpiece is that some right-wing extremist social media pages have begun to catch on and post support for it, because yes, they are that stupid.
You can read and sign the petition HERE.
The comments are priceless, too.
Enjoy!Featured image from The Cleveland Patch