Sarah Palin went full Looney Tunes on Tuesday and @Midnight host Chris Hardwick knows exactly which character she channeled during her speech.During Wednesday night s episode of the Comedy Central program, Hardwick kicked off the show with footage from Sarah Palin s endorsement of Republican billionaire presidential wannabe Donald Trump.While not denying that her whole speech was a rambling incoherent rant, one particular part of the speech caught Hardwick s attention.
Yesterday, Donald Trump received a significant endorsement from feral snow-MILF Sarah Palin, Hardwick began.
Sadly, no one could really understand it.
Hardwick then played a clip on a Vine showing a piece of Palin s crazy speech, the full transcript of which you can read here.
How bout the rest of us?
Right wingin , bitter clingin , proud clingers of our guns, our god, and our religions, and our Constitution.
Tell us that we re not red enough?
Yeah, coming from the establishment.
Right.
It was an attack on President Obama s past statement about bitter conservatives who cling to their guns and religion, but Hardwick couldn t resist mocking Palin.
You betcha!
Hardwick said imitating Palin s voice.
You gosh-darn betcha!
What with the flim-flammin , sock-darnin every kinda woof-wrestlin , moose cobbler coolin on the windowsill, baseball chuckin , flag-wavers, troop salutin , country lovin anthem hummers, and no to the gays.
But somehow, that nonsense sounds kinda familiar, Hardwick continued before playing a clip of the gun-slinging mustachioed Looney Tunes character Yosemite Sam throwing a temper tantrum in the same way Palin said her line about right-wingers, which drew laughs from the audience.Hardwick then asked the three comedians standing in front of him to define what bitter clingin , proud clingers are.
I have no clue but I m sure they re uncomfortable around black people, James Davis replied, drawing a chuckle from Hardwick.Jen Kirkman ended the segment by saying that it s a lizard that clings to a tree during a hurricane and blames Mexicans for everything.
Here s the video via YouTube:This is an absolutely perfect comparison.
It could also be said that Palin and conservatives like her could be compared to Elmer Fudd or Wyle E. Coyote as well.
Regardless, Sarah Palin s drunken incoherent rants are comedy gold and Chris Hardwick hit the jackpot.Featured Image: Screenshot