This may shock you, but Michelle Obama wears clothing.
In fact, sometimes she wears very nice clothing, like the Naeem Khan dress she wore to the Nordic state dinner on Friday.
The Washington Post reports:Michelle Obama is standing out in a sea of black tuxedos in a blush-colored, strapless, floor-length gown at the Nordic Summit dinner.The first lady chose a dress by Indian-born designer Naeem Khan for the White House dinner honoring the leaders of Sweden, Iceland, Finland, Denmark and Norway.
She finished the look with gold jewelry and a wispy chignon.While state dinners typically celebrate a single head of state and Mrs. Obama often wears a gown by a designer from the country being honored the Nordic party was a twist on typical White House protocol.The President did, indeed, step on his wife s dress.
The First Lady feigned outrage, then the couple had some fun with the situation.
She looks good, Barack said when the two paused for photographs.
He stepped on my dress, Michelle followed up.
The President then put a finger up to his lips, playfully shushing as though the incident was to remain a huge secret.
It was a very human moment for the First Couple.
Naturally, conservatives had to jump in to share their thoughts on the apes in the White House.
You can put lipstick on a monkey, but you still have a monkey, one commenter on ABC News Facebook page wrote.
One person wondered if his (Michelle s) fake booby popped out of the dress.
Others lamented that she did not fall and harm herself, while some chose to simply call her a pig and a gorilla.
The unbridled hatred leveled at the First Family is unprecedented.
Recently, upon learning that Malia Obama had gotten into Harvard, Fox News fans took time out of their busy day of huffing paint fumes and masturbating to Donald Trump s photograph to inform everyone they thought she was a n*gger.
Barack and Michelle Obama have weathered a nonstop barrage of racist comments since before the President was elected the first time, but conservatives have not been remotely content to leave it at that.
They genuinely believe that black people living in the WHITE ( White is, after all, in the name) HOUSE is a crime against nature.Barack Obama has been arguably the best President in decades, perhaps in our country s history, and will probably be the best for at least decades to come.
Michelle Obama is a classy woman whose strength has enabled the President to be all that he is.
Their children are impressive young ladies who will certainly make an impact on the world.
The problem is that our frenemies on the Right are incapable of seeing anything more than a skin color they hate.Watch this deeply human event unfold below:Featured image via screengrab