Tina Fey put the jokes aside and took serious aim at Donald Trump.In an interview with David Letterman for The Hollywood Reporter, Fey talked about human dignity and the struggle to find dignity in Trump s America.
What do you think is the No.
1 struggle of humanity now?
Letterman asked.
How are we going to proceed with any kind of dignity in an increasingly ugly world?
Fey responded.
In a world where the president makes fun of handicapped people and fat people, how do we proceed with dignity?
Indeed, Donald Trump has apparently set his sights on destroying human dignity for the last year and half, reducing many groups of people to outcasts while basically telling white conservatives that they are the only ones in America who matter.Fey also talked about how women were so close to making their lives so much better, only to watch as America voted for a douchebag who will likely help Republicans reverse much of the progress women have made over the last century.
It feels like we were on the precipice of things getting pretty good, and now we re in a bit of a throwback moment.
I definitely came out of last month feeling misogyny is much more real than two years ago.
Fey is also concerned about the Internet and how Trump and his deplorable supporters are using it.
But the thing I worry about [more] than actual human interaction is the Internet.
Because that s just despicable: people just being able to be awful to each other without having to be in the same room.
It s metastasizing now, thanks to our glorious president-elect who can t muster the dignity of a seventh-grader.
It s so easy for people to abuse each other and to abandon all civility.
Elsewhere in the interview, Fey commented on Trump s Twitter tantrums over his portrayal on Saturday Night Live.
It just makes me feel sick for the state of the world because it s so beneath a president, she said.Then she commented on Trump demanding an apology from the cast of Hamilton for delivering a message of unity and diversity to Mike Pence.
I thought, our president-elect is a chump of a manager because don t put yourself in a position where you re asking for something and you re going to be told no You re the president.
You demanded an apology that you can t get.
Bad management skills.
Tina Fey is right.
Donald Trump should focus on the presidency instead of embarrassing himself and the office by lashing out at people on Twitter.
He has created a toxic atmosphere of hate that has only hurt this country and millions of Americans who now face the daily threat of hate crimes and bullying.
He should be ashamed and he definitely should not be president.Featured Image: Wikimedia