Anyone following the current election has every right to be absolutely disgusted with the Republican party and the behavior of its candidates.
Even more conservative Americans are coming around to the fact that the GOP hasn t been doing its part and is actually worsening the country while embarrassing us all.On Tuesday, Republican Sheriff Newell Normand had a moment of clarity during the Metropolitan Crime Commission s annual awards luncheon in Louisiana.
Normand is a Republican himself, but he couldn t hold back his disappointment in the party when he slammed the GOP s elected officials and the state s former Governor, Bobby Jindal, in his speech.According to Normand, Jindal was a complete fool who made a mess of Louisiana s finances and was more like a cult leader than a governor.
Admitting that he had once endorsed that idiot , Normand was left disappointed and regretted standing behind Jindal once he was governor and left Louisiana in shambles.
The enraged cop entertained the audience by calling Jindal out: What a mess.
Bobby Jindal was a better cult leader than Jim Jones.
We drank the elixir for eight years, we remained in a conscious state, we walked to the edge of the cliff, we jumped off and he watched us.
And guess what?
Unlike Jim Jones, he did not swallow the poison.
What a shame.
Normand also accused Jindal of attempting to rewrite history by using social media to reframe his handling of the budget, even when the rest of the state doesn t even know what history is.
Currently, Louisiana is facing a hefty budget shortfall of $2.5 billion, but Jindal is bragging on Twitter about what a great job he did as governor.
Normand isn t having it.
He said: We have to just say no!
I m a Republican but I m not a hypocrite.
We have to look at ourselves critically as a party and figure out where we are and what we re going to be about.
Thanks to Jindal, the state is trying to fix is budget problems by cutting funding to mental health and closing several state prisons all which initiatives will cause issues for law enforcement.
Suggesting that Republicans stop attacking and actually start working on solutions, Normand noted that a Medicaid expansion would take care of costs like mental health and drug addiction.
The frustrated sheriff slammed conservatives once more, telling them to actually get to work instead of blaming Obama for the country s woes: And I have to listen to my Republican counterparts talk about gobbledigook.
Blah, blah blah And I m so sick and tired of hearing: Obama, Obama, Obama.
You know how much intellect it takes to blame something on somebody else?
This much!
(Normand held his hand up to signal zero ) Propose a solution.
Work together.
You can watch Normand s impassioned speech below.
It s something that every Republican should hear.FOX 8 WVUE New Orleans News, Weather, Sports, SocialFeatured image is a screenshot