Remember the House Intelligence Committee s investigation into the Trump-Russia connection, and how Chairman Devin Nunes compromised it by running to Trump with documents he should have shown to his fellow committee members first?
And how he then had to recuse himself from the investigation for all of that?
It seems that those documents do, in fact, contain a bombshell, but it s not the one that Trump insisted we d find.House Republicans and Democrats have completed their review of those documents, and they demonstrate that nobody in the Obama administration wiretapped Trump at any time, nor did they do anything unusual, let alone illegal, with foreign surveillance.
Even the scandal that Republicans tried to create around Susan Rice s request to unmask certain members of Trump s campaign turned out to be a big ol nothingburger.One particular Congressional source said that Rice s requests were both normal and appropriate, and another said that there are absolutely no smoking guns present that demonstrate Rice and Obama did anything wrong.
This vindicates Rice s assertions that her requests were normal: There were occasions when I would receive a report in which a US person was referred to name not provided, just a US person and sometimes in that context, in order to understand the importance of the report, and assess its significance, it was necessary to find out, or request the information as to who the US official was.The notion that some people are trying to suggest, is that by asking for the identity of a person is leaking it, is unequivocally false.
There is no connection between unmasking and leaking.
Trump isn t going to like this.
It makes him look like a bigger paranoid, narcissistic moron than ever over these tweets:Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Is it legal for a sitting President to be wire tapping a race for president prior to an election?
Turned down by court earlier.
A NEW LOW!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017I d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process.
This is Nixon/Watergate.
Bad (or sick) guy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017He also said he felt somewhat vindicated by what was in those reports.
But besides that, he thought this was going to be a yuuuuuuuuuuge story.
When he was asked whether he thought Rice acted illegally, he said, Do I think?
Yes, I think.
He also said: I think it s going to be the biggest story.
It s such an important story for our country and the world.
Nunes looks like an idiot too, and now should probably resign his chairmanship.
If Trump says anything, expect him to double down on his accusations.
He doesn t let anything go and he doesn t ever admit he s wrong.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images