The GOP Presidential Primary hit a new low on Thursday night as the debate descended into a literal cockfight, with Donald Trump attempting to convince us all about the satisfactory size of his manhood.
This is not satire.
This actually happened.The weirdest campaign moment yet came after a plea by Marco Rubio that the GOP candidates end their war of insults, and keep the debate to a battle of ideas instead.
At which point, Trump took us on a tangent, which ended with him telling us all about the size of his penis.Basically, Trump has been smarting for a quarter of a century over a slight made against him by journalist Graydon Carter.
The Vanity Fair writer wrote a negative piece on Trump, in which he called him a short-fingered vulgarian.
Last October, Carter published a piece in Vanity Fair entitled: Why Donald Trump Will Always Be a Short-Fingered Vulgarian - in which he detailed Trump s thin-skinned response to the criticism, and his refusal to let the matter go.
He writes:Like so many bullies, Trump has skin of gossamer.
He thinks nothing of saying the most hurtful thing about someone else, but when he hears a whisper that runs counter to his own vainglorious self-image, he coils like a caged ferret.
Just to drive him a little bit crazy, I took to referring to him as a short-fingered vulgarian in the pages of Spy magazine.
That was more than a quarter of a century ago.
To this day, I receive the occasional envelope from Trump.
There is always a photo of him generally a tear sheet from a magazine.
On all of them he has circled his hand in gold Sharpie in a valiant effort to highlight the length of his fingers.And so it was, that Trump decided that a Primary debate to decide the Republican nominee for President of the United States, was the appropriate place to brag about the size of his penis.
Look at those hands.
Are they small hands?
he told the crowd, holding his (admittedly stubby) fingers out towards the audience and the cameras.
He referred to my hands, if they re small, something else must be small.
I guarantee you there s no problem.
I guarantee.
There was awkward laughter from the audience.
There was probably much louder laughter around the world, as U.S. politics is turned into the kind of embarrassing spectacle that we are more used to seeing from North Korea or other banana republics.
Donald Trump is fast becoming the Kim Jong Un of America: an over-fed, over-indulged, hyper-vain authoritarian who embarrasses his nation every time he embarrasses himself.
Featured Image by Gage Skidmore (Flickr Creative Commons)