To say that Donald Trump is a divisive figure is quite the understatement.
His racism, sexism, xenophobia, and all-around assholery have been on full display ever since he announced that his candidacy for the GOP 2016 presidential nomination.
At this point, even former contestants from his reality show, The Apprentice, have turned against him, and are saying so publicly.
Three alumi from the show appeared on CNN in a segment with host Don Lemon on Friday night, and things quickly turned ugly, because two of the former contestants, both of whom are black men, were openly criticizing the business mogul, while a contestant who is a supporter also came on and expressed his support for Trump for president.Kwame Jackson and Randal Pinkett lit into Trump at the beginning of the segment, calling out his many frightening qualities and all the reasons he d make such a terrible president.
Pinkett commented on the fact that while on the show, the contestants had no clue that Trump was such a bigoted extremist, saying: We ve seen the campaign evolve from when Donald announced and talked about Mexicans as rapists and criminals to what we ve seen more recently with the violence at his campaign rallies.
We ve all grown increasingly concerned that the Donald we knew when we competed is not the Donald we know as a candidate.
Pinkett continued on with his criticism, saying that while Trump continues to be the same bombastic personality that they came to know as their host on The Apprentice, that there s a side that has come out during his presidential campaign that they were unaware of before, saying, What we didn t see was how extreme his views have evolved as he has become a political candidate.
That was when Jackson joined the fray and said what all sane people have been thinking, which is that We are bordering on the precipice of fascism.
Andy Dean then spoke up as a Trump supporter, and insisted that nobody in Trump s camp is responsible for the violence at the rallies.
He went on to accuse the former contestants of not being appreciative of Trump s putting them on his television show.
Dean then pivoted to the go-to Trump talking point, which is that The Donald is a rich, successful businessman.
Jackson, countered that remark and said, Being rich don t make you right, Andy.
The thing is, Trump s supporters, be they the backwoods, ignorant types who act as if they couldn t pass an eighth grade civics class or the rich assholes like Andy Dean, seem to be completely oblivious to how dangerous Donald Trump really is.
He s a racist, a sexist, a homophobe, a xenophobe, and really just an out and out fascist.
That is the LAST thing this country needs, and his rise to the top is nothing short of terrifying to those of us who see what he is doing to the nation, even without so much as securing the GOP nomination.These contestants are right.
Trump needs to go.
Opportunities he gave them aside, they were right to say what they said.Watch this trainwreck of a segment below, via Raw Story and Mediate:https://youtu.be/fXqjEhNopCkFeatured image via video screen capture