President Trump spoke in the Rose Garden today in a presser with Romania s leader It got contentious when CNN s Jonathan Karl asked questions about the Comey testimony It s a classic!Trump knows how to throw down the hammer on people.
It s awesome!JONATHAN KARL RECENTLY HAD A RUN IN WITH SARA HUCKABEE-SANDERS: ABC s Jonathan Karl asked a very spunky Sara Huckabee-Sanders (yes, Sara is the daughter of the very funny and sarcastic former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee) if Vice President Pence was in the dark about the firing of FBI Director James Comey?
Sara snapped back, Nobody was in the dark Jonathan!
You wanna create this false narrative.
If we want talk about ah contradicting statements and people that were maybe in the dark, how about the Democrats?
Let s read a few of them.
You wanna talk about em?
Here s what Democrats said not that long ago about James Comey :Harry Reid said, Comey should resign and be investigated by the Senate.
Senator Chuck Schumer, I don t have confidence in him anymore.
Senator Bernie Sanders said, It would not be a bad thing for the American people if Comey resigned.
Nancy Pelosi said, Comey was not in the right job.
Former DNC Chair, Debbie Wasserman Schultz said that she thought Comey was no longer able to serve in a neutral and credible way.
President Obama s advisor Valerie Jarrett reportedly urged him to fire Comey.
Just yesterday, Representative Maxine Waters said that, Hillary Clinton would have fired Comey.
You wanna talk about people who are in the dark?
The people that are in the dark today are the Democrats.Boom!Earlier today, we posted a video that President Trump posted to his Twitter page pointing out the absurd hypocrisy of the Democrats and their allies in the liberal media.
This video pretty much sums up how hypocritical Democrats and their media arm really are when it comes to anything related to Trump.Watch:The Democrats should be ashamed.
This is a disgrace!#DrainTheSwamp pic.twitter.com/UfbKEECm2V Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 11, 2017