Just when you think things can t get any more absurd than they already are, Republicans go and prove you wrong.
Now, in the state of Michigan, Republicans are pushing for a law that would allow law-abiding citizens to carry concealed pistols without a government-issued permit.
Who are these legislators that are introducing such absurd legislation?
Michigan Reps. Tom Barrett, R-Potterville; Lee Chatfield, R-Levering; Triston Cole, R-Mancelona; and Jim Runestad, R-White Lake.In HB 5301, it states: A person shall not carry a dagger, dirk, stiletto, a double-edged nonfolding stabbing instrument of any length, or any other dangerous weapon OTHER THAN A PISTOL, except a hunting knife adapted and carried as such, concealed on or about his or her person, or whether concealed or otherwise in any vehicle operated or occupied by the person, except in his or her dwelling house, IN HIS OR HER place of business, or on other land possessed by the person.
To summarize, knives bad, guns good.
Makes sense, right?According to MLive: Cole, author of House Bill 5304, said the current Concealed Pistol License permit requirement in Michigan is a government over-reach that places an undue burden on residents who want to defend themselves against criminals.
Criminals don t have to go through a training class and wait for government permission to have a handgun before they commit armed robbery, yet a law-abiding citizen who simply wants the option of self-defense has to jump through all the hoops and pay a price to carry a concealed weapon, he said in a prepared statement.
People who want to ensure the safety of their families against the criminal element should not have to beg for that right, Cole said.
Here s a reminder for Triston Cole: guns safety laws are not government overreach.
In fact, the Second Amendment calls for a well regulated (ie.
well-trained and maintained) militia.
The founders didn t write well regulated for no reason.
They knew an armed populace also needs to be held under certain laws, restrictions and training.
If getting a gun permit and/or training is too hard for some folks, maybe they shouldn t have guns, because they apparently don t have the mental capacity to seek a proper permit.
This sort of vigilante justice is exactly what s wrong with parts of America.
We need more laws, not fewer, and we definitely don t need a bunch of people just going out, buying guns, and carrying them wherever they like.It s amazing, really.
Guns and gun owners in Michigan are about to have more rights than women, and the LGBT community.
Apparently, sodomy is to be labeled a felony in the state and punishable by up to 15 years in prison.
And as far as abortion rights for women, here are the restrictions in Michigan:Keep in mind, abortion is legal nationwide, and has been since 1973.It is absolutely outrageous how these Republicans will say that going to get a gun permit is government overreach, yet in the same breath go in to people s bedrooms and call them a felon, or into a woman s uterus and call her a murderer.They definitely have their priorities backwards, and should be condemned for this outrageous way of thinking.Featured image: Wikimedia Commons