Things just keep getting worse for Donald Trump Jr. With the word treason floating around on both the Left and Right, the last thing he needs is more inconvenient facts coming out about his meeting with a Russian lawyer past what we already know.
Fortunately for him, he had the foresight to hire a criminal defense lawyer before the other shoe dropped.Speaking of shoes dropping, new information has come out about that meeting.
Not only did he go there with the intent of getting information about Hillary Clinton from the Russians, Trump Jr. was informed beforehand that the material was part of the Russian government s effort to help install his dad in the Oval Office.The New York Times reports:The email to the younger Mr. Trump was sent by Rob Goldstone, a publicist and former British tabloid reporter who helped broker the June 2016 meeting.
In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Trump acknowledged that he was interested in receiving damaging information about Mrs. Clinton, but gave no indication that he thought the lawyer might have been a Kremlin proxy.Mr.
Goldstone s message, as described to The New York Times by the three people, indicates that the Russian government was the source of the potentially damaging information.
It does not elaborate on the wider effort by Moscow to help the Trump campaign.
There is no evidence to suggest that the promised damaging information was related to Russian government computer hacking that led to the release of thousands of Democratic National Committee emails.According to Trump Jr., the meeting did not amount to much.
For his light treason, he says, he received no information and they just chatted about an adoption program (yes, that s what he s going with).The adoption program in question was halted by Vladimir Putin in response to the Magnitsky Act, a U.S. law that blacklists Russian human rights abusers.
Putin became so incensed that he decided American families may not adopt Russian children.
The New York Times notes that Trump Jr. ended the meeting when the adoption program was brought up.The meeting was also attended by former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort and Ivanka Trump s husband, Jared Kushner a lot of people for an innocent meeting about a Russian adoption program, but just the right amount for a little bit of treason.No inconsistency in statements, meeting ended up being primarily about adoptions.
In response to further Q's I simply provided more details.
https://t.co/FdT1D4hfhz Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 10, 2017To be clear, the meeting was not about adoption (though it was discussed), nor was it supposed to be.
The meeting was about the Russian government delivering damaging information about Trump s political opponents to his lackeys.Trump Jr. was told this beforehand.
He.
Went.
Anyway.
His intent was to work with the Russian government against the United States, against our election, and for Vladimir Putin.
There is no other way to describe what happened.It.
Is.
Treason.Featured image via Getty Images