How corrupt is this?
The USPS allowed employees to work for Presidential Candidate Hillary Clinton.
Can you imagine if candidate Trump did this?
There would be hell to pay!The U.S.
Postal Service spent $90,000 on overtime to cover for employees who took time off to campaign in advance of the 2016 election, according to a new report.
In other words, the American taxpayers made a donation of $90K to the Clinton campaign!Employees at all levels were involved and focused on key battleground states like Florida and Nevada!
The OSC determined the USPS engaged in systemic violations of the Hatch Act, a federal law that limits certain political activities of federal employees.
While employees are allowed to do some political work on leave, the report said the Postal Service showed a bias favoring the union s 2016 campaign operation.The investigation was launched months ago after Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Chairman Ron Johnson, R-Wis., brought constituent complaints to the OSC in October.
The constituent, identified as a USPS employee, was concerned the Postal Service incurred unnecessary overtime costs and improperly coordinated with the National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC) when it released members for several weeks of union official leave without pay to participate in campaign work.
The Labor 2016 program sought to elect Hillary Clinton and pro-worker candidates across the country, the report said, citing campaign work like door-to-door canvassing, phone banks and other get-out-the-vote efforts.According to the report, roughly 97 NALC members requested the leave without pay to participate.
The NALC, which endorsed Clinton last June, compensated those USPS workers using the Letter Carrier Political Fund, the union s PAC.Postal workers are allowed to take unpaid holidays but government employees aren t supposed to actively campaign for a candidate.
The Inspector General is currently investigating whether the postal workers who took time off violated that precept.