The white supremacist and former KKK Grand Wizard threw a temper tantrum during an interview on Newsmax, and bragged about helping Trump become the GOP front-runner.Even before the interview began, David Duke cried foul because host Steve Malzberg introduced Duke as a former KKK leader.
Duke whined that former West Virginia Senator Robert Byrd was also in the KKK but he was never introduced as such, accusing the mainstream media of being controlled.However, while Duke is right that Byrd was in the KKK, Byrd did repeatedly renounce his KKK ties later in his career, calling it a mistake that he ll keep apologizing for over and over again.
I know now I was wrong, Byrd said in 2005.
Intolerance had no place in America.
I apologized a thousand times and I don t mind apologizing over and over again.
I can t erase what happened.
In 1997, Byrd warned young people to steer clear of the KKK.
Don t get that albatross around your neck, he said.
Once you ve made that mistake, you inhibit your operations in the political arena.
Byrd became a staunch supporter of civil rights and redeemed himself over time.This makes Byrd far different from Duke, who has not renounced his KKK past and his continued support of white supremacy.
When asked about how he feels about Jews and black people, Duke had a hard time answering and then said that he is trying to turn the KKK into a political organization and fancies himself a human rights activist.
Of course, the only human rights he cares about are those of racist white pricks like himself.Malzberg also challenged Duke with his own words, asking him about what he said about rape laws in 1975.According to the Wichita Sun Duke said, White people don t need a law against rape, but if you fill this room up with your normal black bucks, you would, because n***ers are basically primitive animals.
Duke claimed he was taken out of context and that the Sun made up the quote, only to later brag about how the Republican Party has adopted his stance against immigrants.In the last part of the interview, Duke continued to talk about himself and how great he is, even going so far as to scream that Trump jumped ten points in the polls because he and his people (white racists) to support him.Here s the videos via YouTube.Trump has made it possible for white supremacists and their racist organizations to rise up in this nation once again.
And should he win, those evil groups and their members will have an ally in the White House, which will only embolden them.
At what point will Americans say enough is enough and counter this hate by overwhelmingly voting against it?
Unfortunately, we will probably have to wait until November to find out.Featured Image: Screenshot