The Donald Trump bandwagon is beginning to show signs of wear and tear.
In what can only be described as an unusual move, Fox News decided to air a segment of a post-debate interview with a focus group who couldn t have been more disappointed with what they just witnessed.
Think of the ramifications.
Donald Trump is so dangerous at this point that Fox News is willing to abandon everything it holds dear and tell the truth about how things actually work.The group is mostly Trump supporters, but only one walks away thinking the Donald won.
The others withheld any semblance of a smile or any emotion rather than pure disgust.
When the interviewer polls an entire row of people on one word to describe the event, the results are eerily similar to watching the people who still go watch their baseball team in late August after 120 losses.
Words like disgusting and childish come up and you can tell that these people mean business.There has to come a point, even for the Trump supporter, when enough is enough.
The time is about to come when Trump is thrust out of the local sports facility and into the world where he needs to earn votes from people looking to understand the issues.
Walls and removing all Muslims and open hatred for anyone and everyone works well among the imbeciles who pay seven bucks for a beer at a Trump event, but not so well for people who live in the real world.Wait until you see the expressions on their faces.
The interviewer as well.
They all look so mortified by the general state of affairs at the GOP debate.
As they should be.
They should be worried about the general state of affairs of the GOP.
They re running around in circles right now trying to figure out what to do next.
The establishment that was so concerned of a Trump third-party run may have to consider one themselves, if for nothing other than ensure Trump loses.
A Trump presidency would spell the end of the Republican party.
They would be the laughing-stock of politics across the globe.All of that would have to start right here at home, where at least according to Fox News, things aren t so hunky-dory in the Trump camp:https://www.facebook.com/Mediamatters/videos/10153471166111167/?permPage=1Featured image from screen capture