Bill O Reilly can always be trusted to be a total ass, especially when it comes to anything that runs counter to his myopic worldview.
The Women s Marches, which took place all over the world and included three million women here at home, seem to be his latest target.
In a conversation with Charles Krauthammer, O Reilly went completely off the rails and actually compared the marches to totalitarianism.As Krauthammer talked about the real people who showed up to the Women s March on Washington, he obviously touched a nerve with O Reilly, who thinks women don t do anything unless they re told to: Don t you feel they showed up because they were told to show up?
If you look at the totalitarian governments in the 20th century- Krauthammer, despite having his own bizarre view of the marches, seemed incredulous.
He tried to interrupt with, You re told to show up?
Who tells anybody to show up in this country?
It s important to note that Krauthammer is not exactly the most liberal of pundits, yet O Reilly really floored him with this.
Krauthammer did bring up a good point: When people do what they re told, it s because there will be negative consequences if they don t. O Reilly decided to try and explain what the consequences are, and he fell flat on his face: Well, they have to go they don t have to go through a negative, they have to go to be with her brothers and sisters, and to show their solidarity and that they are good people and fight the fascist racists.
I mean, it s a whip up, and if you study history, all the totalitarian regimes were fueled by whip-ups, okay?
Really?
It s not possible that anybody went because they had something to say?
Nobody went because they were told to or because they were afraid of bad things should they not go.
Women went because they had something to say.And if anybody s totalitarian here, it s the massive Cheeto living in the White House now.
O Reilly is being just as stupid as ever with this and Krauthammer can t really believe it.
Watch below:Featured image via screen capture