Donald Trump called the Atlantic City casino that he is so fond of, the Taj Mahal, the eighth wonder of the world.
Now, the joint is shutting down likely for good.
The shutdown comes after more than 100 days of striking on the part of union workers from the luxury hotel and casino.
As negotiations went from difficult to impossible, it became official: there s no going back, and the Taj Mahal is closing.This really isn t surprising, considering that Trump is the king of bankruptcy, and has declared himself bankrupt four times.
Despite his own ridiculous record, Trump told the Associated Press with regards to the casino s closing that there was no reason for it to close.
However, he also says it will cost too much to re-open, so it s done.However, Trump s billionaire buddy, Carl Icahn, who operated the Taj Mahal, just might be using the cold months to do some negotiating in an effort to save the place and re-open it.
This is a theory that the union president, Bob McDevitt, is running on.
According to McDevitt, the re-opening after renovations and other improvements is a strong possibility.
The Taj Mahal s closing will cost Atlantic City 3,000 jobs, bringing to the total to 11,000 jobs lost as a result of casino closings in the last two years.
However, the workers who are on strike seem optimistic, despite the loss of their jobs and many admittedly being in financial trouble with the holidays coming.
Tina Condos, who served cocktails at Trump s joint, says: We stood up to a billionaire and told him we wouldn t take it.
I hope it gives him pause before he tries to come in and do this to anyone else.
We feel like we succeeded here.
Rose Hall, who took care of the rooms at the adjoining hotel, says: I gave most of my adult life to this place.
I had to pay for health care out of my own pocket, and if you don t think that s expensive, you haven t looked.
I lost my fiancee to cancer just when medical insurance came off the table for us.I m angry about what s happened, but I m not sad about what we did.
I m at peace with myself.
The last word on the situation from the point of view of the union workers president, Bob McDevitt is that the workers were in the midst of their Popeye moment: That s all I can stands; I can t stands no more.
For the first time in 30 years, workers stood up to Carl Icahn and made him throw in the towel.
Well, good on these workers, and may they find other means of employment soon.Featured image via Bobby Bank/Getty Images