Here is a portion of the interview that was conducted by a group of journalists and Pope Frances today:Vatican Insider I leaned out to greet the children and didn t see the glass, and pum!
The Pope with a smile and an obvious dark bruise framing his left cheek, answers the question on how he feels after the small accident that happened to him in Cartagena.
Immediately after the Avianca flight took off from Cartagena, Francis spoke for 38 minutes with journalists on immigration, climate change, Trump s latest measures and the situation in Venezuela.
He confirmed that he had a private meeting with the Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, but denied that there was talk of immigration.
He expressed his support to Italy for what the country is doing by trying to manage the emergency landings and regulate immigration flows.
Here is a list of US Senators who are also Catholics.
Their pro-life ratings are listed in front of their names.
: Senate100% Mike Johanns, R-Neb.100% Jim Risch, R-Idaho100% David Vitter, R-La.94% Pat Toomey, R-Pa.**68% Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska50% Robert Casey Jr., D-Pa.31% Mary Landrieu, D-La.23% Susan Collins, R-Maine11% Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.4% John Kerry, D-Mass.2% Richard Durbin, D-Ill.2% Tom Harkin, D-Iowa2% Barbara Mikulski, D-Md.2% Patty Murray, D-Wash.2% Jack Reed, D-R.I.1% Robert Menendez, D-N.J.0% Mark Begich, D-Alaska0% Maria Cantwell, D-Wash.0% Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y.0% Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.Does anyone see a pattern here?
Yet, no open condemnation for these lawmakers who actually have the power to stop the barbaric practice of abortion by the Pope.
Italy is starting to feel the climate change.
There have been many deaths in recent days and so much damage Why is it that governments are delaying this realization, whereas on other issues they keep soliciting, like on the Korean arms race, for example?How ironic that the Pope would suggest climate-change deniers who ve been screaming that phony climate change data and peddlers are part of a scheme to extort money from citizens that will somehow fix the NOT resolved science behind man-made climate change.
I have heard of the abolition of this law, but I have not been able to read the articles on how and why this decision was taken.
I do not know the situation well.
However, detaching young people from their family won t bear any good fruit for young people or the family.
This law comes from the executive and not from Parliament: if that is the case, I hope that they will think it over again a little bit.
I have heard the President of the United States speak, who presents himself as a pro-life.
If he is a good pro-life, he understands the importance of family and life: the unity of the family must be defended.
When young people feel exploited, they ultimately feel hopeless.
And who steals it?
Drugs, other kinds of addictions, suicide achievable when your roots are cut off.
Anything that goes against the roots steals hope.