The race is heating up as New York heads into their primary this coming Tuesday.
Currently, polls have Hillary Clinton ahead by ten to seventeen points.
Clinton, who is ahead nationally by more than 200 pledged delegates and hundreds more superdelegates, will need to win her home state to continue momentum after Sanders string of wins in the previous weeks.A New York win for Clinton will mean more delegates she desperately needs, and with that will come superdelegate support.But the superdelegates have continued to cause controversy within the Democratic primary.
Supporters who back Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders have decried the system, feeling the individuals who make up the superdelegate system have been manifestly unfair as to how they allocate their support.Supporters within the Sanders camp have demanded that the superdelegates vote the same way as the pledged at the will of the voters for that state.But that isn t how the superdelegate system is set up (another word for superdelegates is unpledged delegates).However, that hasn t stopped the demands.
And it hasn t stopped the harsh criticism, either.
While these delegates have been regarded as shills, bought-and-paid-for and establishment, one superdelegate wants to remind the nay-sayers of one thing: they are still human.Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, Congress first openly-lesbian senator, is also a superdelegate.
And she s pretty fed up with the inquisitions.
On MSNBC s Morning Joe, the progressive senator claimed if Sanders clinches the popular vote by the time the convention is held in July, she will cast her vote for him.
However, as Clinton continues her popular vote lead, she s supporting the former Secretary of State.
She added, nervously: I am a human being and a Superdelegate.
To put it plainly, based on how the rules are set up, Baldwin is free to vote her conscience, and her conscience says Hillary Clinton for now.
Those who back Senator Sanders point to the fact he beat Clinton by 13 points in Wisconsin, thus Baldwin is somehow obligated to back him.It is important to remember that these superdelegates are party leaders who, in their own right, have been elected within the Democratic Party whether it be a position within the DNC, or a senatorial, gubernatorial or representative position.
It s also important to remember these delegates have nothing but the best of intentions for their party and the future of the country.Baldwin hasn t reported any harassment, but other superdelegates have (one s 12 year old child received the brunt of hrrasment when they answered the phone).Here s Baldwin s appearance on MSNBC: Featured image via Astrid Riecken/Getty Images