This is shocking but once you remember what this lawyer is all about it fits.
Former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York Preet Bharara is joining CNN as a senior legal analyst, a CNN spokesman said on Thursday.CLINTON FIRED U.S.
ATTORNEYS BUT TRUMP TAKES HEAT FOR BEING FORCED TO FIRE BHARARA!Bharara forced President Trump to fire him!
The U.S. Attorney was fired in March by President Donald Trump, after refusing to resign his post when asked to do so by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Bharara joins CNN, a unit of Time Warner Inc, at a time when the cable network faces numerous accusations of being fake news from President Trump on Twitter.CNN declined to give further details on Bharara joining the network.Remember how he went after Dinesh D Souza?
He is a ruthless and a very deceitful guy.
The first thing that s highlighted inside my case file is I m a conservative .
This should be completely irrelevant in the decision whether to prosecute me.
It should be beside the point.
But of course in Bharara s case it was the point.
This was a political prosecution conducted by Bharara as a henchman for the Obama administration.
And so for me this is actually kind of nice.
When I was in confinement, Bharara was laughing.
Now that he s unemployed, I m kinda laughing.
The former U.S. Attorney also launched a weekly podcast called Stay Tuned with Preet on WNYC, which aired the first episode on Wednesday.
Bharara detailed the story of his firing for the first time, including how President Trump initially asked him to remain in his post after the election, and also spoke with former CIA Director Leon Panetta in the episode.Bharara may also address the circumstances of his firing in a book he is expected to publish in January 2019 with publisher Alfred A. Knopf.Shortly after his firing in March, Bharara joined New York University Law School as a distinguished scholar in residence.
He said in a statement he will use the opportunity to address issues such as honest government, corporate accountability and criminal and social justice.
Read more: Reuters