After years of investigating Hillary Clinton over Benghazi despite her resignation, Republicans are hypocritically refusing to investigate Michael Flynn.Donald Trump s national security adviser Michael Flynn resigned late on Monday night after getting busted for negotiating with the Russians while President Obama was still in office.Flynn s actions violated the Logan Act, which bars citizens from negotiating with foreign powers.
Flynn s connections with Vladimir Putin run deep, and the Justice Department warned Trump last month that Flynn was at risk of being blackmailed by the Russians.
Still, Trump kept Flynn on his team and even let him continue participating in meetings.Flynn, the national security adviser, was literally a national security threat and Trump refused to act.This comes months after an election that was tainted by interference from the Russians, and Republicans have yet to investigate that.And they are not going to investigate the Flynn scandal either.GOP Rep. Jason Chaffetz told reporters on Tuesday, I think that situation has taken care of itself.
I think he did the right thing stepping down.
By that logic, the Benghazi investigation should have ended after Clinton stepped down as Secretary of State in February 2013.
But Republicans continued the investigation into December 2016.Chaffetz then passed the buck by claiming that the House Intelligence Committee is responsible for investigating Flynn, not the Oversight Committee.When asked by reporters if he would launch an investigation, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes said he doesn t plan to do so and even went on to praise Flynn in the hope that the scandal will be swept under the rug.Here s the lawmaker who should be investigating Flynn and Trump s Russia ties, House Intel Chair Devin Nunes.Really taking this seriously.
pic.twitter.com/ygfiajpYq3 Matt Fuller (@MEPFuller) February 14, 2017And so, Republicans once again demonstrate that they are complete hypocrites.Republicans like Chaffetz spent years and wasted millions of taxpayer dollars to investigate Hillary Clinton over Benghazi.
It was a witch hunt that went beyond the amount of time Congress spent investigating 9/11 and in the end it found nothing.Republicans literally accused Clinton of national security malpractice even though it was their cuts of diplomatic security funding that played a role in the lack of security at the consulate.Nothing Hillary Clinton could have done in response would have saved the four Americans who died in the attack.
Furthermore, there have been even deadlier terrorist attacks against American embassies overseas that did not result in investigations, especially when such attacks occurred under Republican administrations.But Michael Flynn broke the law, lied about his phone calls with the Russian ambassador, and was a national security threat because of his closeness to the Russians, particularly Putin, and was at risk of being blackmailed.This is a major scandal of the Trump administration and the American people are demanding a lengthy and thorough investigation by Congress.
The fact that Republicans don t want to do it shows how little credibility these lawmakers have.
They don t really care about our national security.
They only care about launching investigations for political gain.They are hypocrites and they should be ousted from office in favor of people who will conduct a proper investigation into this matter.
And when that investigation exposes Trump s collusion with Russia we ll all know why Republicans didn t want to investigate Flynn.
Because protecting the party is more important to them than protecting America.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images