According to the right-wing pastor, Mark Burns, Democratic primary candidate Bernie Sanders, does not believe in god.
That s what Burns told an audience of Trump supporters Thursday in Hickory, North Carolina during a Donald Trump campaign event.
Sanders is a Jewish man who has lived a mostly secular life.Burns even went as far to say that Bernie Sanders needs to convert to Christianity.
Here s what Burns said in full: Bernie Sanders, who doesn t believe in God, how in the world (are) we going to let Bernie I mean, really?
Bernie s got to get saved, Bernie s got to meet Jesus.
He s got to have a coming to Jesus meeting.
While he does not participate in organized religion, Sanders has expressed that he does believe in god.
During an interview in Rolling Stone, Sanders was asked if he believed in god.
Sanders responded, saying: Yeah, I do.
I do.
I m not into organized religion.
But I believe that what impacts you impacts me, that we are all united in one way or another.
When children go hungry, I get impacted.
When kids die because they can t afford medicine, I get impacted.
We are one world and one people.
And that belief leads me to the conclusion that we just cannot turn our back on human suffering.
Sanders beliefs are found in both the Jewish faith.
From the Talmud, Whoever destroys a soul, it is considered as if he destroyed an entire world.
And whoever saves a life, it is considered as if he saved an entire world.
Alternatively, the same beliefs are found in the secular organized labor movement.
In particular, the International Worker s Union s motto, An injury to one is an injury to all, encapsulates Sanders belief system as he has described it.This is all happening against Trump s threats to Sanders and his supporters.
While at the same time, the Republican primary front-runner and his supporters escalate their violent tactics against protestors.Here s a video of Burn s opening address.
The relevant comments begin five minutes into the speech.Featured image from video screenshot via YouTube