On CNN s State of the Union yesterday, Reince Priebus fielded a question about Gen. Michael Flynn s insistence that it s perfectly rational to fear Muslims.
Poor Priebus tried to deflect and failed miserably: There are some people within that particular religion that we do fear.
So what are we going to do about it?
We re going to cause massive immigration delays and blow yet another hole in the deficit by going forward with the Muslim ban.
Or rather, we re potentially going to piss off some allies by suspending all immigration from certain countries: We don t believe in religious tests and are not blanketly judging an entire religion, but, in fact, we will try to pinpoint the problems and temporarily suspend those areas from coming into the United States until a better vetting system is in place.
And yet, they want to implement a values test, through which people can lie to their heart s content.
Given the Trump train s Islamophobia, such a values test could actually look like a religious test.He s targeting both refugees and other immigrants from areas where there might be a problem with terrorism that could end up getting exported here, and will use both DHS and the Department of State to pinpoint these countries, and we ll develop our extreme vetting and all will be right with the world.As reported everywhere about five million times, we already have an extensive vetting system in place for refugees, whatever Trump, Priebus, and the rest of the fear-mongerers keep pushing.We likewise have a very lengthy, complex, and extensive vetting process in place for other immigrants.
Most applicants need a U.S. sponsor a relative or potential employer as assurance that they aren t coming here to be a burden on our system.
The whole process starts with a petition, and then goes to National Visa Center screening if the petition is approved.There are also in-depth interviews that take place, along with about a squillion forms that must be filled out and submitted to the NVC.
When they finally come to the U.S., they generally have a packet about an inch thick which U.S. Customs and Border Protection evaluates before granting entry into the U.S. From there, immigrants get sent to Customs and Immigration Services for processing.Trump would add a values test to this already-lengthy and complex process.
This is to ensure that no potential Muslim extremists could successfully immigrate here, and is actually not entirely without precedent here.
However, our current law states that we will not apply values tests to potential immigrants.Other parts of the plan, including the rest of his extreme vetting, could actually strain State Department and DHS resources and cause major delays.
How bad the whole thing will be depends heavily on what countries they plan to target, which could be limited to the Middle East, but could just as easily stretch into Europe and parts of Africa.
Many of our immigrants come from Africa who knows who this will piss off?All of this could also become quite expensive, but it seems the deficit is suddenly not a major issue to the GOP.
After all, we re supposed to get this yuuuuuuge influx of jobs, which means a yuuuuuge influx of tax dollars despite the tax cuts.
This is so not going to work.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images