When WikiLeaks arrived on the scene, it seemed to many that they would be the savior of democracy.
After all, they have the hacking power to keep the people whose salaries we are paying in check.
Unfortunately, it s becoming more and more apparent that WikiLeaks is as self-interested as any one of their targets and they can be far more dangerous.
Their latest leak will mean dire consequences and even death to some in Saudi Arabia.Julian Assange and his organization, WikiLeaks, is on a mission to destroy the candidacy of Hillary Clinton.
It s suspected that his information has come from Russian hackers nothing at all democratic there.
One of the big problems with Assange, besides his trying to influence an American election, is the fact that his data dumps are indiscriminate either that or he doesn t care who he hurts.
WikiLeaks has apparently outed (or at least made the information searchable) at least one gay man, several rape victims and several people living with HIV.
The one gay man we know was outed lives in Saudi Arabia, a country where being gay can call for stoning or worse.
They published everything: my phone, address, name, details, said a Saudi man who told AP he was bewildered that WikiLeaks had revealed the details of a paternity dispute with a former partner.
If the family of my wife saw this Publishing personal stuff like that could destroy people.
In Saudi Arabia, any married man who s caught having sex with a man can be stoned to death.WikiLeak s latest data dumps are about as scatological as the name indicates.
There is no respect or even expectation of personal privacy when it comes to WikiLeaks.
Many people are finding that their personal medical histories, their phone numbers and other personal information has been released by WikiLeaks.
WikiLeaks has indiscriminately targeted sick children, abuse survivors and the mentally ill.The AP independently found three dozen records pertaining to family issues in the cables including messages about marriages, divorces, missing children, elopements and custody battles.
Many are very personal, like the marital certificates which reveal whether the bride was a virgin.
Others deal with Saudis who are deeply in debt, including one man who says his wife stole his money.
One divorce document details a male partner s infertility.
Others identify the partners of women suffering from sexually transmitted diseases including HIV and Hepatitis C.It s bad enough that Julian Assange is attempting to put his finger on the scale of our electoral system, but when he starts outing private citizens, he should lose everyone s trust.Featured image via Carl Court/Getty Images