President-elect Donald Trump came to the defense of L.L.
Bean Inc. on Thursday after a group called for the boycott of the outdoor clothing maker because a granddaughter of the founder supported his campaign for president.
Thank you to Linda Bean of L.L.
Bean for your great support and courage, Mr. Trump tweeted.
People will support you even more now.
Buy L.L.
Bean.
Ms. Bean, who is a member of L.L.
Bean s board of directors, donated $60,000 to Making America Great Again LLC, a political-action committee created to support Mr. Trump s candidacy, according to website Open Secrets.
That contribution appeared to exceed the $5,000 annual limit for individual contributions, opening up the PAC to possible punitive action, according to Federal Election Commission filings.
The PAC has responded to the FEC that it is a super PAC that can raise unlimited amounts.Grab Your Wallet, the group behind the boycott, has a list of dozens companies that it is calling on consumers to shun for their support of the president-elect, including retailers who sell Trump-related products.
L.L.
Bean is one of about 30 companies listed on the group s website.
It s certainly a testament to the strength and influence of the #GrabYourWallet movement that certain powerful people who disagree now feel compelled to tweet advertisements for the companies being boycotted, Shannon Coulter, co-founder of the group, said in an email.In a Facebook post on Sunday, Shawn Gorman, L.L.
Bean s chairman and a great-grandson of the company s founder, said Ms. Bean was one of 50-plus family members involved with the company, who hold views and embrace causes across the political spectrum, just as our employees and customers do.
Mr. Gorman added that no individual speaks for the company and that L.L.
Bean, which is based in Freeport, Maine, doesn t endorse political candidates, take positions on political matters, or make political contributions.Ms.
Bean, who was a Republican candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in 1988 and 1992, told Fox News on Thursday that she had no intention of backing down.
They re bullies, she said.
Trying to control what we do, what we buy in Maine.
She is the granddaughter of Leon Leonwood Bean, who founded the company in 1912.Read more: WSJ