Trump s supporters are bloodthirsty monsters.By now it is crystal clear that Hillary Clinton needs the most Secret Service protection the government can provide because conservatives are obviously too crazy to be ignored.One such conservatives is New Hampshire Republican State Rep. Al Baldasaro, who is also Trump s adviser on veteran s affairs.On Tuesday, Baldasaro echoed other conservatives by calling for executing the former Secretary of State via firing squad for imaginary crimes conservatives think she is guilty of committing even though there is no evidence that she ever committed a crime.
House panels found nothing during their investigation of Benghazi and they couldn t find anything in their investigation into her emails either.Even the FBI couldn t recommend prosecution because there was nothing to go on.But Baldasaro and other conservatives don t care.
They think they are judge, jury, and executioner.
Hillary Clinton to me is the Jane Fonda of the Vietnam, Baldasaro told a right-wing radio host.
She is a disgrace for the lies that she told those mothers about their children that got killed over there in Benghazi.
She dropped the ball on over 400 emails requesting back up security.
Something s wrong there.
Again, even the House committee headed by REPUBLICANS could not find any evidence that Hillary Clinton failed to respond to attacks in Benghazi in which four Americans were killed, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.In fact, even Stevens own family does not blame Clinton.But regardless of the facts, Baldarsaro wants blood.
He accused Clinton of committing treason and said she should be shot.
This whole thing disgusts me, Hillary Clinton should be put in the firing line and shot for treason.
Here s the audio via BuzzfeedIn addition to right-wingers calling for Hillary to be shot, hanged, and imprisoned despite the fact that she has not committed a crime, Trump s delivery boy Chris Christie held a mock trial at the RNC Convention on Tuesday evening and charged her with crimes and let the crowd deliver verdicts.
They chanted Lock her up and guilty.
And this is all despite the fact that Christie himself is embroiled in a legal scandal of his own, which Hillary reminded him of on Twitter.Conservative hatred of Hillary Clinton has reached fever pitch and is extremely dangerous if left unchecked.
Calling for the assassination of a political candidate is disgraceful and Donald Trump needs to tell his supporters that they are going too far.
Because it is only a matter of time before a conservative gun nut actually attempts to put those calls into action.Featured image via YouTube