Comedian blasts NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio for considering removing a famed statue of Christopher Columbus and rails against political correctness gone wildWe love Joe Piscopo!
Our last funny video from him:Joe Piscopo is hysterical!
He was on with Neil Cavuto and broke out with imitations of Waters, Sanders and Schiff: And then you got Maxine Waters, Maxine Waters.
What is with Maxine Waters.
And every day with Maxine Waters it s, I am sooo angry!
Angry!
Donald Trump scares me!
Maxine, please, just relax!Thank you Joe Piscopo for saying what everyone else is thinking!Maxine Waters has a track record of being unhinged!
Here are a few of the most recent Mad Max episodes:Maxine Waters has a major brain freeze during an interview ripping on the Trump administration Karma?
Recognize that evidence is pouring in and it s growing or what is matt what what is wrong with them, I just don t quite understand, If Maxine Waters is the best the Dems have in their arsenal then this is good news for Republicans.
The California Democrat has been bashing President Trump at every turn with no real reason.
She s even called for his impeachment.Is this all she s got?She never speaks about what she s doing for the district in California that she doesn t even live in.
She refuses to hear any opposing views during town halls.
She has opposing voices removed so the adoring masses can rant and rave about Trump.
It s truly a Banana Republic in Maxine s world.
We ve reported in the past about her bizarre behavior but the best question was asked by Tucker Carlson:Maxine Waters is so filled with hate for anyone who disagrees with her, that she s decided to appoint herself as the Democrat s chief attack dog for President Trump and his administration.
Unfortunately for Maxine, making a public spectacle of herself also comes with a price.
Speaking of a price how about the price tag on career politician Maxine Waters $4.3 million mansion?Tucker Carlson reacted to Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) threat to take [HUD Secretary Dr. Ben Carson s] a** apart by noting she might indeed be qualified to take his job.Carlson said Waters, a 40-year politician, lives in a 6,000 square-foot mansion worth $4.3 million that is not in her congressional district!