In her new book Hacks , Donna Brazile expressed concern for her safety after DNC staffer s mysterious murder:I felt some responsibility for Seth Rich s death.
I didn t bring him into the DNC, but I helped keep him there working on voting rights.
With all I knew now about the Russians hacking, I could not help but wonder if they had played some part in his unsolved murder.But Brazile says she had a spook, with connections to the intelligence community, who told her after the killing that she needed protection for herself, including cameras, alarms and backup power at her house, and that she heeded his advice.Brazile was so concerned with Rich s death that she used her brief, only phone call from Hillary Clinton after the election loss to bring him up.
She asked Clinton to use some of the millions of dollars the campaign had in order to set up a reward fund to find his murderer.
But Hillary said she really had to go.
I knew the campaign had over $3 million set aside in a legal fund.
Could she help me get this lawsuit started?
And don t forget the murder of Seth Rich, I told her.
Did she want to contribute to Seth s reward fund?
We still hadn t found the person responsible for the tragic murder of this bright young DNC staffer.
You re right, she said.
We re going to get to that.
But she really had to go.
She had made the call and checked it off her list, and I accepted after we said our goodbyes that I might never hear from her again.Dinesh D Souza tweeted in response to the excerpts from Brazile s book about her fears about crossing Hillary: When Donna Brazile feared for her life for crossing the Clintons you know you are dealing with an unscrupulous gang of thugs When Donna Brazile feared for her life for crossing the Clintons you know you are dealing with an unscrupulous gang of thugs pic.twitter.com/Ze2omu1ypG Dinesh D'Souza (@DineshDSouza) November 5, 2017Donald Trump Jr., whose epic tweets have become must reads for anyone who loves a good laugh, had this hilarious response about Brazile s fear of Hillary Clinton (think Vince Foster) to Dinesh D Sousa s tweet: I assume she was very fearful of involuntary suicide???
https://t.co/sMM45gnTUE Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) November 5, 2017