According to GOP Congressman Sean Duffy, we need to stop talking about terrorist acts committed by white people in the United States and hop on board the Trump Train.
During an interview Tuesday morning with CBB s Alisyn Camerota, Duffy completely lost it when asked why the Trump administration seems determined to ignore any and all terrorist acts committed by white people as they focus on banning entry from seven countries that have not produced a deadly terrorist attack within our borders since 9/11.
You don t have a group like ISIS or Al Qaeda that s inspiring people around the world to kill innocents, Duffy said when confronted with white terrorist attacks like the recent mosque massacre in Canada.
That was a one-off.
Pretending that the attack in Canada is the only recent example of a white extremist slaughtering innocents, Duffy continued harping about ISIS.
How about the Charleston church shooting, Congressman?
Camerota asked.
He was a white extremist.
That doesn t matter?
At this point, things got crazy.
Duffy explained that the Charleston massacre matters, but only because because good things came from it: It does matter.
It does matter.
Look at the good things that came from it.
Nikki Haley took down the Confederate flag.
That was great!
Naturally, he didn t mention the numerous African-Americans who were killed, or that the white supremacist who murdered all those people followed the same ideology as he does.
This sort of statement is crazy and insulting to the victims and their families and the Congressman s response makes him look awful, but he only managed to get crazier when he claimed that former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, who is quite alive, is dead: Look at Gabby Giffords, the Marxist who took her life, a leftist guy, and now you see violence and terror in the streets all across America.
Watch the interview below:But what about white terrorism, the CNN reporter asks this Congressman.
& his response is exactly the problem.
https://t.co/orG1grV3HY deray mckesson (@deray) February 7, 2017Read more:Featured image via screengrab