On Saturday morning, Hillary Clinton s campaign counsel posted a statement to Medium to announce that the campaign will back recounts in Pennsylvania and Michigan if Green Party candidate Jill Stein follows through with reexamining the votes in those states.The post was written by attorney Marc Erik Elias, who said that the campaign had been questioning the results since the election ended, weighing different options.
Elias said: It should go without saying that we take these concerns extremely seriously.
We certainly understand the heartbreak felt by so many who worked so hard to elect Hillary Clinton, and it is a fundamental principle of our democracy to ensure that every vote is properly counted.
Since the day after the election we have had lawyers and data scientists and analysts combing over the results to spot anomalies that would suggest a hacked result.
These have included analysts both from within the campaign and outside, with backgrounds in politics, technology and academia.
TwitterTwitterTwitterElias said that although actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to alter the voting technology was not found, Stein s successful movement to get votes recounted in Wisconsin has persuaded the Clinton campaign to support the initiative.
Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides.
If Jill Stein follows through as she has promised and pursues recounts in Pennsylvania and Michigan, we will take the same approach in those states as well.
We do so fully aware that the number of votes separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states Michigan well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount.
But regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented in any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to monitor the recount process itself.
Echoing Stein s own words about making sure that America s elections maintain integrity, Elias said: We believe we have an obligation to the more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be reported.
Elias entire statement can be read here.
On Friday afternoon, Stein had filed for a recount in Wisconsin, promising to also follow through in Pennsylvania and Michigan, where Trump is leading by narrow margins.
The deadline Stein must file for recounts in those states is Monday and Wednesday.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images