With their puppet firmly secured in the White House, Russia is now poised to take full advantage of it.Throughout the campaign, Donald Trump threatened to pull the United States out of NATO and suggested that America would not help defend our European allies against an attack unless they pay what amounts to a ransom.
Trump has also gotten really cozy with Vladimir Putin, who launched an attack against Ukraine and seized the Crimea in 2014.And now that Putin has Trump as his puppet, Russia could probably march military forces throughout Europe without having to worry about the United States retaliating.That s certainly the fear of many Eastern European nations, including Lithuania, whose president is now warning that Russia is preparing for war on a massive scale.President Dalia Grybauskaite is concerned about an upcoming Russian military exercise with Belarus that appears to be a preparation for an invasion.
We witness various threats growing and we are awaiting with concern the Zapad 2017 exercise, she said.
At a time when many numerous and aggressive forces will amass together a demonstrative preparation for war with the West is coming.
Indeed, Russia is building up its military and Belarus just so happens to border Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland, all of which the Soviet Union once had control of behind the Iron Curtain.According to Newsweek,The security committee chief in Lithuania s parliament, Vytautas Bakas, said he believed Zapad 2017 would be the largest foreign military drill at his country s borders.
According to Russia s Ministry of Defence, its heavy duty railway traffic to Belarus will increase by 83 percent this year, suggesting a transfer of a lot of cargo.If Russia is preparing for war against Europe the only power on Earth capable of stopping them is the United States.
But with Trump fawning over Putin and perhaps owing a debt to the Russian leader for putting him in the White House, it s looking more unlikely that Trump would do anything to anger his new best friend.
Trump has even considering loosening economic sanctions which will free up finances for Russia to use for their military buildup.Donald Trump is abandoning our European allies and that should worry every single American in this country.
Because if Russia does launch an attack on Europe, it s going to be massive.
And if Trump did decide to intervene, it will be late because he is an incompetent decision-maker.
That means our military would have a disadvantage and thousands could die.
It may even take a military draft, the very kind that Donald Trump himself dodged to get out of fighting for this country, to stop Russia.
And that means even more American blood could be spilled in Europe because Donald Trump cares more about Putin liking him than he does about America, our allies, and our citizens.Featured image via Greg Baker-Pool/Getty Images and Joe Raedle/Getty Images