If you ve been joking that Ivanka Trump would make a perfect First Lady (given Trump s numerous remarks through the years about how he wants to yeah), prepare to have your goddamn mind blown.Ivanka Trump won t be receiving a salary, but she will be getting her own West Wing office, government-issued communications devices, and security clearance (yes, the jokes kinda write themselves).In the past, The Donald has described Ivanka as voluptuous and a piece of ass who has the best body.
He has also, as we re sure you aware, said that perhaps [he d] be dating her if she wasn t his daughter.
He also famously talked about how he kisses her as often as possible in comments so creepy the Dr. Oz show was forced to edit them out.
To add to the hilarious nature of this new situation, these photos exist:Ew.
Are there any pictures of Donald Trump and Ivanka that aren't creepy?
Barron and Melania too.
@Brotatopics pic.twitter.com/TPgd9oypU6 Midnight In America (@MittRegularGuy) January 17, 2017Ew.
Are there any pictures of Donald Trump and Ivanka that aren't creepy?
Barron and Melania too.
@Brotatopics pic.twitter.com/TPgd9oypU6 Midnight In America (@MittRegularGuy) January 17, 2017De pose op deze oude foto van Donald Trump en dochter Ivanka is al wat creepy.
Maar de papegaaien maken het helemaal af.
pic.twitter.com/YolgnbRwfd Bas Vermond (@BVermond) November 28, 2016Donald Trump Creepy Comments And Photos With Ivanka Trump https://t.co/zomwCO0XGl pic.twitter.com/j9e2g9KrTM News (@hadyr2es) December 16, 2016At it again!
'Dr.
Oz Show' edits out Donald Trump comment about kissing daughter Ivanka.
#Creepy #Deplorables pic.twitter.com/kOxKR3XrJt March Madness Goof (@MetsFanInPhilly) September 16, 2016#ManyPeopleAreSaying that Donald Trump has taken a bunch of CREEPY pictures with Ivanka as a teenager.
Like these- pic.twitter.com/CN54qe4wyq NY Rangers Fan (@DarakNy) August 9, 2016In a role befitting of Daddy s Little Nazi-in-Training, Ivanka will reportedly serve as his eyes and ears a strange role amid reports that Trump is stationing people to monitor the loyalty of those within his administration.
While there is no modern precedent for an adult child of the president, I will voluntarily follow all of the ethics rules placed on government employees, Ivanka says of her new position, adding that she intends to give daddy candid advice and counsel, as I have for my entire life.
She, of course, will maintain ownership of her business because apparently the President s daughter sorry, our new FLOTUS can t possibly have conflicts of interest, either.Featured image via screengrab