During the 2016 presidential campaign, President Donald Trump made a lot of promises on immigration.
He was going to build a wall between the United States and Mexico, that Mexico would fund.
He was going to keep Muslims from coming into the country.
Lastly, he was going to cut funding to sanctuary cities.
Now it looks like none of that is going to happen.
The travel bans have been struck down.
The border wall is never going to happen.
Now, a federal court has ruled against taking funding away from sanctuary cities.Sanctuary cities are those that refuse to work with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to deport undocumented immigrants who report crimes.
It s important to note that lacking documentation is a civil offense, not a criminal one.
This is the second of Trump s main policy initiatives to be struck down because it violates the U.S. Constitution.Both San Francisco and Santa Clara County won orders squashing an executive order, signed by Trump on January 25, 2017 to halt funding to any cities who refuse to deport undocumented immigrants for minor offenses.
The president has said these cities can cause, immeasurable harm to the American people and to the very fabric of our republic.
U.S. District Judge William Orrick did not see it that way.
He sided with San Francisco and Santa Clara County.While Trump wants to appear powerful, it is clear that he is not aware of what limits there are on presidential power.
The president does not decide how federal funds are spent.
That s Congress s job.
The budget that is submitted by the White House every year is simply a wish list of what the president would like to see federal money spent on.
Congress is under no obligation to follow the budget.
By the same token, once funds have been allocated for a program, a president cannot just block that funding because it suits his or her objectives.The White House promises to appeal the decision and Chief of Staff Reince Priebus has said that the courts in California are going bananas.
He added, The idea that an agency can t put in some reasonable restriction on how some of these monies are spent is something that will be overturned eventually, and we ll win at the Supreme Court level at some point.
For its part, the Department of Justice assets that federal agencies are still allowed to act against any cities or towns that violate or ignore federal immigration laws.
Department spokesman Ian Prior said, The court upheld the government s ability to use lawful means to enforce existing conditions of federal grants, Ian Prior said in an emailed statement.
The ruling is not just a victory for these two jurisdictions.
Its impact will be felt in sanctuary cities and jurisdictions across the nation.
Cities such as New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
This ruling is also giving energy to Californians who want to be seen as leading the resistance against the Trump administration.
The Californian state Senate put through the California Values Act.
This would turn the entire state into a sanctuary zone.