American translation: My baby didn t do nothin wrong.
He was a good boy and loved everyone.
Never mind that his brother is the MOST WANTED MAN IN THE WORLD!
Pretty much everyone has strapped on a suicide vest at least once after a stressful day right?
They seem like such a nice family Ibrahim Abdeslam, 31, detonated his suicide vest outside the cafe Comptoir Voltaire, close to the scenes of the deadly Bataclan concert theatre hall atrocities, on Friday night.He did not kill anyone other than himself.His brother Mohamed, a council worker, was arrested in Brussels on Saturday and a third sibling, Salah, is now one of the world s most wanted men after becoming the subject of an international man hunt.Abdeslam Salah is currently the most wanted man in the worldBut today the Abdeslam family defended his sick actions and said they were surprised he blew himself up, even though he had spent time in war-torn Syria.His mother suggested the suicide jacket may have gone of by accident and said he could have carried out the attack because he was stressed .Speaking outside their family home in Molenebeek, she told reporters they were sure he had not planned to kill anyone.She said: This was not his plan, that s for sure.
The fact that his suicide belt exploded without killing anyone says a lot.
We even saw him two days before the attacks.
There were no signs that they had plans to do anything violent.But the family did admit Ibrahim spent a long time in Syria.They added: We were really surprised that Salah was involved.
Ibrahim was different.
We did see that he had been radicalised, at least in part.
But not so much that we ever thought he would commit an atrocity like this.
Another family member said he would not have wanted to become a suicide bomber.
May the explosives went off prematurely by accident.
May it was stress, they added.Ibrahim, who seriously injured an innocent bystander when he blew himself up, rented a Seat Leon used in the attacks.The car was used by the terrorists who murdered diners outside the Casa Nostra pizza restaurant and the La Belle Equipe cafe.It was later found abandoned 20 minutes away in Montreal with a cache of weapons inside.