Judge Napolitano just took the fun out of the Democrat s party tomorrow They have nothing!
It s what we ve known but it s great to hear from Napolitano who is a fair guy.
It doesn t appear as though these conversations that the president had with Director Comey could constitute the level of constitutional obstruction of justice necessary to commence any further proceedings like impeachment like Democrats want to do.
Judge NapoltanoEARLIER TODAY INTEL DIRECTORS SPOKE UP ON THE FACT THAT TRUMP DID NOTHING: The Senate Intel Committee is holding an open hearing on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act today and the intel directors are saying there is nothing to the claim that Trump asked anyone to shut down an investigation: NSA Director Adm. Mike Rogers says he s never been directed to do anything he deems illegal, immoral or inappropriate.
NSA Director Adm. Mike Rogers say he s never been directed to do anything he deems illegal, immoral or inappropriate.
pic.twitter.com/hIuLdo2G6M Fox News (@FoxNews) June 7, 2017He dropped the line that should shut down the Trump witch hunt for good but you know it won t. The press is already spinning this one.
Senator Marco Rubio even doubled down and asked a similar question (Video below)Rubio: Has anyone asked you to issue a statement you knew to be false?NSA Dir.
: I standby my statement.
Natl Intel Dir.
: I do likewise.Rubio: Has anyone asked you to issue a statement you knew to be false?
NSA Dir.
: I standby my statement.
Natl Intel Dir.
: I do likewise.
pic.twitter.com/6qb133nyhu Fox News (@FoxNews) June 7, 2017 We have never, not once, found an intentional violation of this program.
Natl Intel Director Coats about compliance track record We have never, not once, found an intentional violation of this program.
Natl Intel Director Coats about compliance track record pic.twitter.com/sT68H1yqHA Fox News (@FoxNews) June 7, 2017It s not like Mike Rogers is untrustworthy.
The guy has an incredible resume on Wiki:Michael S. Rogers (born October 31, 1959) is a United States Navy admiral who serves as Director of the National Security Agency (NSA), Commander of the U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM) and Chief of the Central Security Service (CSS) since April 3, 2014.
Prior to that, Rogers served as the Commander of the Tenth Fleet and Commander of the U.S. Fleet Cyber Command.Rogers is a native of Chicago, Illinois.
He graduated from New Trier High School in 1977.
He is a graduate of Auburn University (1981) and the Naval War College.Rogers received his commission through the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) program and has served in the United States Navy since graduating from Auburn University in 1981.
He started his career as a Surface Warfare Officer working in naval gunfire support operations off Grenada, Beirut, and maritime surveillance operations off El Salvador.
In 1986, he was selected for transfer from Unrestricted Line Officer to Restricted Line Officer and re-designation as a cryptology officer.During the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq, Rogers joined the military s Joint Staff, which works for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, where he specialized in computer network attacks.
From 2007 onward he served as director of intelligence for the military s Pacific Command.
In 2009, he became director of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and was subsequently named commander of U.S. Fleet Cyber Command and commander of the U.S. 10th Fleet, with responsibility for all of the Navy s cyberwarfare efforts.
As such, Rogers was the first restricted line officer to serve as a numbered fleet commander and the first Information Warfare Community (IWC) officer to achieve the rank of vice admiral.In January 2014, the Obama Administration announced Rogers nomination as director of the National Security Agency and the commander of the US offensive cyberoperations unit in the Department of Defense.
Rogers succeeded General Keith B. Alexander, who served as the NSA director for nine years, and became the first IWC officer to achieve the rank of admiral.
Although the NSA directorship does not require Senate approval, Rogers had to be confirmed by the Senate to head United States Cyber Command,[11] for which the Senate unanimously confirmed him.In his first public remarks as NSA director, Rogers stated that he believed that NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden was probably not working for a foreign intelligence agency, despite frequent speculation and assertion by the NSA s allies to the contrary.
Rogers added: He clearly believes in what he s doing.
I question that; I don t agree with it.
I fundamentally disagree with what he did.
I believe it was wrong; I believe it was illegal.
The Washington Post reported on 19 November 2016 that Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and Director of National Intelligence (DNI) James R. Clapper Jr. had recommended to President Obama that Rogers be terminated as director of the National Security Agency.
Carter reportedly recommended he be terminated due to poor performance, whereas Clapper considered it wise that the position be held by a civilian.
Both Clapper and Carter had put Rogers on notice for poor performance in internal security and for a poor leadership style.
His termination was reportedly delayed due to stalled changes to the bureaucratic structure of the intelligence community.
Later, Rogers reportedly met with then President-elect Donald Trump without notifying his supervisors in what is an unprecedented action for a military officer.
Trump was reportedly considering replacing Clapper with Rogers as DNI, however that position went to former Senator Dan Coats, with Rogers remaining NSA director.