Joe Scarborough, the former Florida GOP congressman and host of MSNBC s Morning Joe, announced during his appearance on Late Night with Stephen Colbert on Tuesday night that he is leaving the Republican party, stating I am a Republican, but I m not going to be a Republican anymore.
He later said he was going to become an Independent.The announcement comes merely weeks after President Donald Trump launched a scathing Twitter attack against Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, his Morning Joe co-host, in late June, where the President not only criticized the program s ratings, but referred to Scarborough as a psycho and Brzezinski as low I.Q.
and crazy , then taking it a step too far, attacking her physical appearance from an encounter earlier in the year, claiming she was bleeding from a facelift.
to Mar-a-Lago 3 nights in a row around New Year's Eve, and insisted on joining me.
She was bleeding badly from a face-lift.
I said no!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017The Twitter attack a fortnight ago wasn t the first time Trump s party had criticized the show, calling the program the worst case of Trump Derangement Syndrome in a press release in May.
Once a respected forum for intelligent discourse, the program has turned into 3 hours of far-left hysteria, filled with more faux scandal and innuendo than a bad episode of Gossip Girl, RNC Deputy Communications Director Michael Reed continued in the release to reporters.Scarborough initially responded to the President s dishonorable late-June Twitter attack with dignity.
Nothing that Mika and I did in setting up this meeting was any different than what all good reporters and news hosts try to do daily, he said of the Mar-a-Lago encounter.
Brzezinski, on the other hand, decided to fight fire with fire, taking to Twitter to mock Trump in a rather subtle way by posting a picture of a Cheerios packet.pic.twitter.com/8YhzcCUwM1 Mika Brzezinski (@morningmika) June 29, 2017The feud continued to get worse, with the morning show duo claiming that White House staff told them that Trump would have a story run about them in the National Enquirer unless they begged for it to be killed, Scarborough adding that he had evidence to back these claims.Finally, enough is enough and Joe Scarborough wants to denounce any and affiliation with President Trump, even if that means no longer identifying as a Republican.
Watch his announcement here:.
@JoeNBC announced that he's leaving #GOP to become an Independent.
@StephenAtHome's full interview with Joe and @morningmika airs tonight!
pic.twitter.com/OhLgXvYakH The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) July 11, 2017 Featured image via Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images