Much like the incompetent POTUS they are working under, many members of the Trump administration have said things in the past that have come back to haunt them.
And now, a new discovery about General Michael Flynn, who resigned from his position as National Security Adviser, is likely going to result in the crumbling of the Trump administration.Last night, it was reported that Flynn was asking for immunity in exchange for testimony on Russia and a few comments he made last September came to light, which certainly will not be helping his case (or Trump s).Apparently, last year on Meet The Press, Flynn made some remarks about Clinton campaign chair John Podesta regarding immunity, which now make him seem incredibly guilty.
Flynn said: Yeah, so a couple things, the very last thing that John Podesta just said is no individual too big to jail, that should include people like Hillary Clinton.
I mean, five people around her have had, have been given immunity, to include her former Chief of Staff.
When you are given immunity, that means that you ve probably committed a crime.
So you know, I don t know how he can sit there and say something like that with all the, the things that have been going around, just swirling around Hillary Clinton with her email.
Yes, he said, When you are given immunity, that means that you ve probably committed a crime.
Flynn has practically closed the case on himself with that statement.
You can watch Flynn s past self basically ruin his future below:Flynn s counsel, Robert Kelner, has released a statement saying that Flynn has a story to tell and tried to make a case for why Flynn would seek immunity.
Kelner wrote: He is now the target of unsubstantiated public demands by Members of Congress and other political critics that he be criminally investigated.
No reasonable person, who has the benefit of advice from counsel, would submit to questioning in such a highly politicized, witch hunt environment without assurances against unfair prosecution.
Statement from Flynn s atty seems to acknowledge seeking immunity, explaining it s necessary in highly politicized, witch hunt environment pic.twitter.com/IH7ZVLwLnw Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) March 30, 2017Considering the position Flynn is in right now, his previous statements certainly seem shady and carry some weight.Featured image is a screenshot