On Friday, Florida Governor Rick Scott screwed tens of thousands of women across his state.The vile excuse for a governor signed a bill into law that will not just cut state funding for abortions (which is already prohibited on both the state and federal level), but it also cuts funding from clinics that perform abortions.
The Florida Times-Union reported:The bill, which passed largely along party lines, restricts state agencies, local governments and Medicaid managed-care plans from contracting with organizations that own, operate or are affiliated with clinics that perform elective abortions.
Duval County is one of the health departments with a Planned Parenthood contract that may be affected by that provision.Basically, in his quest to destroy Planned Parenthood, he is hurting any woman who goes to these clinics for free pregnancy tests, cancer screenings, free birth control, STI screenings and a plethora of other services they provide.
The laws requirements that doctors who perform abortion service have patient-transfer agreements with local hospitals or admitting privileges at a hospital in the area.
It mirrors an Alabama law that was struck down on Friday by Federal District Court Judge Myron H. Thompson who said the law unconstitutionally restricts the rights of women.
Planned Parenthood s president, Cecile Richards, expressed outrage over the bill: As a result of this bill, thousands of people across Florida may no longer be able to access essential reproductive health care, such as cancer screenings, birth control, and well-woman exams.
This cruel bill is designed to rip health care away from those most at risk.
Rick Scott is just the most recent in a very long line of Republicans who are attacking women around the country.
They pretend that they are pro-life and that they care about women, but none of this is true.
The GOP isn t pro-life, they are pro-fetus, anti-women asshats who don t care about the sanctity of life any more than we care about they care about the thousands of veterans living on the streets.
If they were actually pro-life they would wholeheartedly support social safety nets, birth control and oppose the death penalty.
But they don t, which makes the real reasons for these types of bills very obvious: they want to punish women for having sex.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images