GOP Tennessee State Rep. Andy Holt is done with terrorism.
His solution, like with most in ammosexual Republicans, is more guns, because that will suddenly make Muslim men less angry with us, or something.
To prove it, Holt is putting his money where his mouth is and he s raffling two AR-15 s, because terrorism.To be fair, Holt had planned this giveaway before the massacre last Sunday morning, but at the same time, Sunday s massacre is only propelling him to go on with it because, a crazed Muslim terrorist shouldn t change the plans or activities that we have as Americans.
I think there is nothing more that this particular individual would love, this terrorist, than to think that he has changed a significant number of plans for Americans, and also that maybe gun control measures will be instituted regarding the use of firearms here in the United States because of his actions, Holt said.He added, I don t concede to the idea we should change our plans because this individual inappropriately used a firearm.
Source: CNNBecause that s what Americans are thinking about this Father s Day weekend obtaining maximum killing machines.
Okay, maybe that is what Americans are thinking about this Father s Day weekend.Here s the video:Holt did concede, though, that maybe, just maybe, it s a bad idea to let people on the terrorist watch list have guns.
I think there is a reason for terror suspects not to get firearms.
A man that has devoted himself to ISIS and radical Islam, that s a precursor that should disallow an individual to have a firearm.
We don t want to go too far, though.
He says we have to be strategic, which likely means doing nothing at all about the fact that yes, people on the terrorist watch list, including Omar Mateen, who brutally gunned down 49 people and was once on the list, bought his gun legally.
We ll also likely do nothing about guns and mental illness or guns and domestic abusers, or about guns and anything, because in the good old U.S. of A., guns are more important than people.Featured image via video screen capture.