Donald Trump reportedly no longer likes being president because he thought he would be able to act like a king.Thanks to brave staffers, we now know what life is like in the White House for Trump.Trump has had a very tough first three weeks as reality has made it clear that he can t run the government like a business.
In a business, when the boss makes a policy it goes into effect and can t be held up or blocked.
But Trump is finding out that his orders as president can be blocked and Trump learned that the hard way after the Ninth Circuit Court ruled against reinstating his travel ban on Thursday.A business owner can also hire their staff without any interference.
But a president s staff is different.
Cabinet positions must be approved by the Senate and Democrats are showing Republicans that turnabout is fair play by delaying and blocking Trump s nominees.Trump has also had to learn on the job, proving that he should have been paying more attention to briefings and studying rather than posting on Twitter.
Of course, it doesn t really help that he is seeking help answering his questions from people like Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner, both of whom are just as inexperienced as Trump.According to Politico,In interviews, nearly two dozen people who ve spent time with Trump in the three weeks since his inauguration said that his mood has careened between surprise and anger as he s faced the predictable realities of governing, from congressional delays over his cabinet nominations and legal fights holding up his aggressive initiatives to staff in-fighting and leaks.
Trump often asks simple questions about policies, proposals and personnel.
And, when discussions get bogged down in details, the president has been known to quickly change the subject to seem in control at all times, one senior government official said or direct questions about details to his chief strategist Steve Bannon, his son-in-law Jared Kushner or House Speaker Paul Ryan.
Trump has privately expressed disbelief over the ability of judges, bureaucrats or lawmakers to delay or even stop him from filling positions and implementing policies.Paranoia is also running rampant in the Trump White House.
Trump would rather the public not know details of his phone calls to world leaders even though such information has been incredibly revealing in that it has exposed Trump s bullying of our allies and his continued sucking up to Russia.Trump has even ordered a witch hunt to find the staffers who are leaking information.Unlike President Obama, who could be leader of the free world and play golf at the same time, Trump apparently would rather leave running the country to others so he can play golf with his rich buddies at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida.Seriously, Trump should resign if he can t handle being president.
It has only been three weeks and he already hates his new job.
And it s only going to get worse for him as he continues to do things that the American people oppose.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images