Melania Trump, standing by her man despite being hurt and disappointed in her husband for bragging up a storm about sexually assaulting women, appeared at the 2nd presidential debate looking radiant in a modest, flowing, pink Gucci blouse.
There s a small problem, though: The blouse is, literally, called a Pussybow silk-crepe de chine shirt.
That s according to Gucci itself.
Their description says: A pussybow blouse is one of the prettiest ways to embrace Gucci s new-found eclecticism.
This fuchsia-pink design is cut in Italy from silk-georgette, and detailed with softly gathered shoulders and buttoned cuffs to maximise the vintage vibes.
Tuck it into a knife-pleated skirt, finishing with statement accessories.
[emphasis mine]Check it out below:OMG: Melania s #debate fashion: Gucci s pussy bow shirt H/t @politiquette pic.twitter.com/VQ0LpQp7NW Jay Newton-Small (@JNSmall) October 10, 2016Melania couldn t find a better style of blouse to wear, considering Donald Trump s comment about grabbing women by the pussy?Maybe she didn t know.
Someone probably should have warned her, though, because the last 48 hours have been very painful for women all across America who actually have been grabbed that way.
The right s defense of those indefensible words just makes it so much worse.Right now, there are definitely some who would call anyone who thinks this was tone-deaf overly sensitive, and worse, because of course they would.
However, as the wife of the man in the hot seat for those comments, she could have stood to wear something else.Trump has been in a lot of trouble for bragging about sexually assaulting women, saying things like, I just start kissing them.
It s like a magnet.
Just kiss.
I don t even wait, and Just grab them by the pussy.
Anything you want.
People bring up Bill Clinton s escapades, but that s nothing more than a deflection.Those words aren t the words of a simply uncouth man.
Those are the words of a sexual predator someone who believes that women want him to take them sexually because he s a star, and who has no compunction whatsoever about acting on that thought.The Trump campaign insists this wasn t intentional on Melania s part.
However, it could be seen as, at a minimum, trolling the press in an attempt to prove she s standing by her husband.Featured image by Scott Olson/Getty Images