The fallout from what s turning out to be a thousand times worse than Mitt Romney s 47 percent comment is spiraling out into the ether.
Those who are still loyal to Trump are reaching ever further in a sad and sorry attempt to explain away his bragging about sexually harassing and assaulting Nancy O Dell back in 2005.First up is Sean Hannity, who s so far up Trump s ass it s hard to tell where he ends and Trump begins.
He ll say anything as long as it keeps him Trump s good graces, even to the point where it causes problems with his colleagues at Fox News.
But he really went too far in excusing Trump s behavior: King David had five hundred concubines for crying out loud.
Sean Hannity, who I can t believe I m watching but there it is.
Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) October 8, 2016Wow.
King David had 500 concubines so it s okay for a man who s trying to appeal to Christians who abhor adultery supposedly to screw around.
Except it wasn t screwing around.
That implies it was mutual.
Clearly, Hannity is laboring under the delusion that all the outcry is because Trump cheated on Melania.
Trying to rape a woman is not just cheating.
Hannity s response is actually worse than Ben Carson s response, where his spokesperson ended his statement by saying the flesh is weak.
The chair of the Washington State Republican Party is little better, blaming Democrats for this:Washington State Republican Party Chair Susan Hutchison defends Trump comments, says they were made when he was a Democrat BNO News (@BNONews) October 8, 2016So it s all okay because he wasn t a Republican then.
This would never happen now (except Trump hasn t changed and won t change so it most definitely can happen now).
Maybe she s worried that this will reflect badly on the GOP?
It does they chose this misogynistic stale beer fart for their standard-bearer.
Saying it happened when he was a Democrat, as if that makes it all okay, just looks even worse.Give it up, guys.
Your candidate is done.Featured image by Drew Angerer/Getty Images