Jut when you didn t think the hosts on the Fox News channel couldn t get any more despicable, they do.
On Tuesday s edition of Fox and Friends, the hosts of that silly show decided to take aim at a high school athlete who just happens to be transgender.
They misgendered her and called her a boy, and also said that she was gender bending, and confused.
The athlete is a track star at her high school, and instead of praising this brave young woman as they should have the hosts said that she was confusing kids who are already pretty confused in this culture.
They went on to wonder: Are girls who identify as boys, are they going to be the running backs for the football is that going to work out well?
How s that going to work out?
Here is the transcript of the conversation, via Media Matters:STEVE DOOCY (CO-HOST): Laura, we talk about popular culture and society.
How about this story this morning.
There s a high school track athlete who was born male, identifies now as female LAURA INGRAHAM: No.DOOCY: Competed with the girls track team.
And finished I think third at the state competition.
I think we could have seen this coming.
What do you make of this?INGRAHAM: Well, it s another first, right?
We re all into firsts so that s a first.
Then it will be the first field hockey player and pole vault star.
Let me just say this, and Brian will love this story.
I was in field hockey in Glastonbury, Connecticut.
And at the end of the season one season we had the boys soccer team play us.
We were ranked number one in the state so the boys decided they were going to pick up sticks, the soccer team and play against us.
Well, sadly for us the boys, who have never played field hockey, creamed us, okay?
They killed us.
We were number one in the state.
They were faster.
They were stronger.
And they I mean, it made me really mad, but they had better hand/eye coordination and never picked up a stick before.
So is this fair to the other girls competing?
I mean, I don t think it s really fair.BRIAN KILMEADE (CO-HOST): Of course it s not.INGRAHAM: And I think it s just more gender bending.
This is gender bending this is the next frontier until there s another frontier that the you know, those who want to mix up the traditional social mores want to take us to.
So it doesn t surprise me.
It s not fair.
Until parents make their views known, this is just going to keep getting worse.KILMEADE: Hey, Laura, in an environment where people are taking performance enhancing drugs to do better in sports you know we re going to be in the situation where, well, we d like to win our first state championship so let s let a few men excuse me, some boys play with the girls team and then take the controversy and also take the trophy.INGRAHAM: Hey Brian, do you think it will go the other way though?
Are girls who identify as boys, are they going to be the running backs for the football is that going to work out well?
How s that going to work out?
Let s go the other direction and see how successful that works out.
I mean it s just, I have no I really have KILMEADE: I just shrug my I don t know what to say.INGRAHAM: Well, it s only the current conversation, but remember we ll be on to the next issue and then the next and the next.
This is a current litmus test.
You re not a human being with real feelings and empathy unless you re cheering this on and bowing down to this new movement.
Look, that s the way they want to frame it.
It s up to the regular Americans to say, look, I m a good person.
But I don t think this is fair and I think most people don t develop their understanding of their own, you know, sexuality until frankly later in life.
You know, I think it s I think it s confusing kids who are already pretty confused in this culture.KILMEADE: I m confused, and I m a grown-up.
Laura Ingraham, I pretty much have reached my maximum in maturity.
Laura.
Thanks so much.This is really just too much, even for the imbeciles at Fox and Friends.
They can have their opinions, sure, no matter how absolutely ignorant they may be.
But attacking a private citizen, a high school student no less, on national television over her gender identity is truly beyond the pale.
These people need an education, not a platform to spread ignorance.Watch the video below, again via Media Matters:Featured image via video screen capture