How can the Israelis, or any Jewish person for that matter, trust Donald Trump if he can t even answer this question seriously?During his press conference with Benjamin Netanyahu, Trump took a question from a reporter who wanted to to know what he plans to do about the rising incidents of hate and anti-Semitism in this country and asked Trump to also address the fact that members of his own team have taken racist tones.
Mr. President, since your election campaign and even after your victory, we ve seen a sharp rise in anti-Semitic anti- Semitic incidents across the United States, the reporter began.
And I wonder, what do you say to those among the Jewish community in the states and in Israel and maybe around the world who believe and feel that your administration is playing with xenophobia and maybe racist tones?
Indeed, hate crimes have skyrocketed across the nation since Trump was elected and he has done very little to combat them.
Meanwhile, Trump s administration included white nationalist Steve Bannon and racist Jeff Sessions and all but two members of Trump s Cabinet are white men.In response to the question, Trump outrageously proceeded to brag extensively about his Electoral College victory as if that somehow will stop anti-Semitism.
Well, I just want to say that we are, you know, very honored by the victory that we had 306 electoral college votes, Trump said.
We were not supposed to crack 220.
You know that, right?
There was no way to 221, but then they said there s no way to 270.
And there s tremendous enthusiasm out there.
Trump couldn t even get his own election count right.
First, he received 304 votes when the Electoral College met in December.
Furthermore, his win is one of the smallest on record and he also lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes.Trump then claimed that he will bring peace to America and went on to use a line that sounds eerily similar to a racist saying they aren t racist by claiming to have black friends.
In Trump s case, he suggested that anti-Semitism will be magically solved by his administration because he has Jewish family members.
He concluded by telling the reporter that he will see a lot of love over the next few years.I will say that we are going to have peace in this country.
We are going to stop crime in this country.
We are going to do everything within our power to stop long simmering racism and every other thing that s going on.
There s a lot of bad things that have been taking place over a long period of time.I think one of the reasons I won the election is we have a very, very divided nation, very divided.
And hopefully, I ll be able to do something about that.
And I, you know, it was something that was very important to me.As far as people, Jewish people, so many friends; a daughter who happens to be here right now; a son-in-law, and three beautiful grandchildren.
I think that you re going to see a lot different United States of America over the next three, four or eight years.
I think a lot of good things are happening.And you re going to see a lot of love.
You re going to see a lot of love.Here s the video via YouTube:Let s not forget that neo-Nazis supported Trump s campaign and they continue to support him today.
Let s also not forget that Trump didn t mention Jews at all when he issued a statement in remembrance of the Holocaust, a tragedy that resulted in 6 million Jews being murdered by Hitler.Once again, Trump demonstrates that he is an embarrassment.
He had a chance to address this issue seriously, but he made it all about him and his ego before making very few references to anti-Semitism and how he plans to actually stop it.
He didn t even mention Jews beyond pointing out that he has Jewish family members as if that somehow makes him qualified to deal with anti-Semitism.Trump is clearly not fit to be president.Featured image via screenshot