Ted Cruz has officially quit the 2016 Republican presidential race, according to a statement released by his campaign manager Jeff Roe.
This brings an end to the last desperate hope that Republicans had to stop Donald Trump from leading their party directly into the 9th layer of Hell in the 2016 presidential election.Trump completely smashed Cruz, by approximately a 16 percent margin in the Indiana primary.
John Kasich also technically still existed, coming in with less than 10 percent of the vote.Kasich has pledged to stay in the race until either he or Trump reach the required threshold of 1,237 delegates.
Aside from most people saying John who?
a reason this is a futile effort is that it s mathematically impossible for him to win enough delegates to beat Trump.
To put it into context, Cruz needed fewer delegates and even he dropped out after Trump walked away with a gift-wrapped Indiana primary win.Cruz threw in everything including the kitchen sink to secure a win in Indiana.
He colluded with John Kasich in a so-called alliance to try to swing a heavier vote count towards himself in order to take away from Trump s chances, he picked a VP candidate, even though she is universally reviled (what was he thinking?
), and there was massive super PAC money doing ad-buys.
He even netted the governor s endorsement.In the end, it was an embarrassing blowout that told him what everyone has been saying for months; The RNC is speeding towards the edge of a cliff, and Trump is in the drivers seat.Cruz issued some short remarks following his blistering defeat: We left it all on the field in Indiana.
We gave it everything we ve got but the voters chose another path.
So with a heavy heart but with boundless optimism for the long-term future of our nation, we are suspending our campaign.
Sourece: CNNTechnically speaking, Trump still needs to gather more delegates in the remaining primaries before he will win the nomination hands-down, but with Cruz out and Kasich being relegated to obscurity as a GOP protest vote, there s really nothing stopping Trump from usurping control of the Republican party.
Will you be watching as the Republican party has to smile and hand Trump his nomination in Cleveland?Featured image via Tombstone Generator