Right-ing paranoid whackjob Pat Boone has declared SNL is now venerating Satan, because of a parody skit they ran called God is a Boob Man.
The skit was making some light-hearted humor at recent attempts to pass anti-LGBT laws in many states.
The skit is absolutely hilarious and is a parody of other recent Christian movie trailers for such films as God s not dead.
It isn t clear how Boone saw the skit since he clearly hates SNL and shouldn t be watching it as a result.
Perhaps he watches it just to get outraged.
He certainly did get upset, though, when he took it upon himself to Godsplain God to the rest of us:God is not thin-skinned.
But he does demand reverence.
If you have any brains at all you don t pitch yourself against someone who created all things, the God of the Bible.
They don t have to apologize to Christians [but] when you come against God and the Holy Spirit who are one and the same, you are bringing upon yourself eternal condemnation.
Source: Right Wing WatchBoone went on to not only accuse SNL of being supporters of Satan, but he also outed SNL as a secret Jew-hating enterprise as well: Something can be devilishly funny, but this skit is diabolical.
God has only one real enemy Satan.
Satan ridicules faith, and they re taking Satan s side.
They re also ridiculing me and the film, telling impressionable young people not to see it because it s ridiculous.
Then they throw in that the lawyer is Jewish to make the Christian look even worse, but it s just anti-Semitic.
Source: Fox NewsYeah, he sure nailed it.
Saturday Night Live is secretly anti-Jew.
Just think about how stupid that sounds for a few moments.Then, to prove that he s a couple cans short of a six-pack, Boone said he didn t feel that SNL needed to apologize to Christians followed a few moments later by him demanding that SNL apologizes to Christians.
He literally real-time flip-flopped.Boone even went so far as to suggest that gay people should be offended at SNL for being portrayed as more bigoted than Christians.
Notice he said more bigoted.
He literally admitted that Christians like him are bigoted, by using the word more.
As if this wasn t embarrassing enough, the producer of God s Not Dead 2, (they actually made 2 of these?)
Michael Scott, also complained that SNL is not portraying his movie accurately proving that he has absolutely NO CLUE how parody or satire works.Scott also chimed in with another incredibly funny comment, saying that parody like the SNL skit goes too far and can cause divisions among us.Really?
Anti-LGBT/Pro-discrimination law doesn t go too far, and bigoted irrational hate doesn t cause divisions.
But, a parody skit on SNL is the great doom of humanity.
You really couldn t intentionally make up something that sounds as stupid as the things fundie Christians say naturally, these days.Featured image via Fox News screen capture