A top gun lobbyist has just warned Americans that if a conservative candidate (meaning Donald Trump) doesn t get elected into the White House, right-wing gun nuts just might open fire.Larry Pratt, who is the executive director of Gun Owners of America and a former Virginia lawmaker, went on his Gun Owners News Hour radio program earlier this week to share a message with anyone who isn t voting GOP in November.
In a ridiculous rant, Pratt warned that if Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton get into the White House this election, they ll likely nominate a Democrat as a U.S. Supreme Court justice a move that could, according to Pratt, threaten gun lovers precious Second Amendment rights.While pro-gun conservatives have often used this particular argument to scare voters into doubling down on their support for the GOP, Pratt s solution to this problem was concerning, to say the least.
He said: We would have to come to an understanding, which we ve been sort of taught, it s been taught out of us, that the courts do not have the last word on what the Constitution is.
They decide particular cases, they don t make law.
Their decisions, unlike the Roe v. Wade usurpation, don t extend to the whole of society, they re not supposed to, and we may have to reassert that proper constitutional balance, and it may not be pretty.
So I d much rather have an election where we solve this matter at the ballot box than have to resort to the bullet box.
Yes, Pratt just threatened to use gun violence to get a Republican into the White House.
After making this ridiculous remark, his guest American Civil Rights Union fellow Robert Knight offered another ridiculous solution.
Knight said, Well, there s impeachment, too.
You can listen to the crazy conversation between these two idiots below:This isn t the first time Pratt has suggested gun violence to solve a problem and get his way.
In March, Pratt objected to President Barack Obama s preferred replacement for the late Antonin Scalia.
When Obama announced Merrick Garland as his judicial nominee, Pratt said: The Second Amendment is all about people like Judge Garland.
Featured image via Richard Ellis / Getty Images