There is nothing that Donald Trump, our resident Narcissist-in-Chief, loves more than promoting himself following a tragedy.
To that end, he contacted the NYPD to address a roll call following the shootings in Dallas, presumably to get pictures that show just how much he supports our law enforcement officers, and garner more support and donations to send back to his own businesses.
NYPD commissioner Bill Bratton, though, said they slapped him down hard for that: We don t allow the department to be politicized, and inasmuch as he is engaged in a political campaign, that would be a politicizing of the department.
But he s Donald Trump!
The real-estate magnate!
He s the bestest, strongest, most leader-y candidate we ve got.
A photo-op isn t politicizing, it s publicly showing support.
He probably would want them to throw a ticker-tape parade for him afterward, too, to properly display their gratitude for his amazing, ongoing support.To be sure, Bratton would have turned Hillary Clinton down, too, if she d asked for the same thing.
She did call the NYPD to speak to them following Dallas.
Unlike King Donnie, however, she just wanted to speak with them she didn t also want to grandstand with them as her personal props.Bratton also spoke to the press on Friday about the Trumpeter-in-Chief s request: Our interest is staying out of the politics of the moment, and not to provide photo ops, he told reporters.
If Mr. Trump wants to speak to me, I would be happy to brief him on what we re doing.
If Sen. Clinton wants to speak to me, I would very happy to brief her on what we re doing.
But we are not in the business of providing photo ops for our candidates.
Of course, King Dunce s campaign is denying that they ever sent the request, probably to cover for the horrible embarrassment of being rejected.
You just don t reject King Dunce for anything if you want to be treated fairly after he becomes President Dunce.Photo of Bill Bratton by Kena Betancur/Getty Images.
Photo of Donald Trump by Drew Angerer/Getty Images.
Images cropped and merged by Rika Christensen