Three students at a Florida high school are suspended for wearing KKK costumes to school for homecoming.
The students from Wiregrass Ranch High School in Pasco County no doubt thought they were being funny or cute, or maybe they thought they were making some kind of a statement.
Regardless, they upset many of their fellow students with the costumes, which they initially claimed were ghost costumes.The theme for the day was characters, and most students who chose to dress up dressed as superheroes or television characters.
These three chose to emulate one of the most racist hate groups ever to exist in the U.S., but for what reason, nobody seems to know.
A fourth student was wearing a Confederate flag, but that student took it off after being asked to, and doesn t face any disciplinary action.The outfits consisted of white sheets and pointy white hoods; very, very reminiscent of the KKK, not ghosts.
They posted a photo of themselves in the costumes on social media with the caption, BRUHHHHHHH on it.
Pasco County District Superintendent Kurt Browning said: Usually ghosts don t have pointed hoods.
No, they don t. A senior at the school believes that these three had to have known what they were doing ghost costumes look very different from KKK outfits and everyone who grew up in the U.S. knows it.
We all see ghosts everywhere at Halloween, and we all see images of the KKK in our history books and media.Furthermore, with all the protests against police brutality toward the black community going on, there s a lot of racial tension.
Black people are being killed in the streets by police, and white people don t want to acknowledge that the root of that problem is systemic racism, so the problem just continues.
White people also insist on trying to dictate when, where and how the black community can protest, which just makes the black community angrier, and rightfully so.Because of all of that, KKK outfits, no matter the context, are especially inflammatory.Two of the students were Hispanic, and one was Arabic.
None of them were black or white.
There s a possibility they thought they were making some kind of a statement about the white nationalism that Trump has uncorked and normalized here.They might have specifically intended to harass black students and faculty there.They might have just thought they were being funny and cute, and they may have even thought they wouldn t get in any trouble because they aren t white.There is just no way they didn t know what they were doing, though.
Browning touched on that when he went on to say: The last thing we need is to have any student regardless of race dressed up in that type of costume.
The students received a two-day suspension, so hopefully they learned differently.
The KKK no matter who you are is a hate symbol.
Whatever the students motives were, there is zero excuse.Watch a report on this incident below, from WFTS:Featured image via screen capture from embedded video