Apparently, original ideas are a liability in the Donald Trump administration.
Nearly as many Trumpsters have been accused of plagiarism as weeks he s held in office.
Okay, that s a slight exaggeration, but Neil Gorsuch, the man who s about to be rammed into a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court, appears to have plagiarized some of his writing.We should have known when Trump s own wife Melania plagiarized part of her Republican National Convention speech from Michelle Obama.Once in office, Trump picked Monica Crowley to head the National Security Council.
You got it, she plagiarized her Ph.D. dissertation and the book she published in 2012.Crowley was forced to drop out of contention, but Betsy DeVos is Trump s education secretary and in a move that would get a child kicked out of school, she plagiarized part of the questionnaire she filled out to get the job.
Now, it appears, Trump s pick for the Supreme Court is also guilty of plagiarism.Politico obtained several documents that showed several passages of Gorsuch s 2006 book, The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia, were nearly identical to a 1984 article in the Indiana Law Journal.
There were also several other incidents.In the most striking example, Gorsuch, in his book, appears to duplicate sentences from an Indiana Law Journal article written by Abigail Lawlis Kuzma without attributing her.
Instead, he uses the same sources that Kuzma used: A 1982 Indiana court ruling that was later sealed, a well-known pediatrics textbook, Rudolph s Pediatrics, and a 1983 article in the Bloomington Sunday Herald.Politico reports on documents showing that SCOTUS nominee Neil Gorsuch plagiarized the work of others.
Behold: https://t.co/XQnCmd62Ia pic.twitter.com/ooc2TkG2bA Christina Wilkie (@christinawilkie) April 5, 2017There s more.
Read the Politico article for all the instances.The White House is calling the accusations false: This false attack has been strongly refuted by highly-regarded academic experts, including those who reviewed, professionally examined, and edited Judge Gorsuch s scholarly writings, and even the author of the main piece cited in the false attack, said White House spokesman Steven Cheung.
There is only one explanation for this baseless, last-second smear of Judge Gorsuch: those desperate to justify the unprecedented filibuster of a well-qualified and mainstream nominee to the Supreme Court.
Experts disagree with the White House: Each of the individual incidents constitutes a violation of academic ethics.
I ve never seen a college plagiarism code that this would not be in violation of, said Rebecca Moore Howard, a Syracuse University professor who has written extensively on the issue.Not that it should make much of a difference.
Senate Republicans are determined to get him through, even if it means changing the rules to require a simple majority.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images