The last thing this country needs right now is a president who will only cause tensions between our allies and ourselves.
Mexico is getting sick and tired of being bullied by Donald Trump so they are doing something about it.Trump has threatened to punish Mexico economically is they do not pay for his wall along the border and he has promised to nullify treaties such as NAFTA that promote free trade between Canada, Mexico, and the United States.And now, in the wake of Trump s recent embarrassing trip to Mexico, our southern neighbor is weighing legislation that would possibly nullify the 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo that ended the Mexican-American War and gave the United States the territories of Texas and California in addition to areas of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming.To put it bluntly, Mexico is essentially telling Trump to go f*ck himself.
Mexico could also nullify any other treaty or agreement that the two nations have ever made with each other.Introduced by Mexican Senator Armando Rios Piter, the bill would not only cancel the treaty, it would also ban state funds from being used to pay for future Trump visits to the country and from being used to pay for the wall.Furthermore, if Trump retaliates against Mexicans living in the United States, Mexico will respond by placing additional taxes upon the one million Americans who currently live in Mexico.
It was a historic error for our president to invite a person like that to our country, Piter said.
Mr. Trump used us as a campaign tool.
The goal is to foresee and prevent any negative effects on Mexico if Trump becomes president of the United States.
As a Mexican, I already feel attacked and outraged at Trump.
That s why we have to act.
We can t take a partisan view of this.
All parties in the senate are in agreement that Mexico needs to stand up for itself and strengthen its relationship with the United States.
We want to shut Trump s mouth, which has been spewing this hateful speech.
This is the kind of diplomatic disaster that electing Donald Trump would cause.
It would be a humiliating moment in American history and would signal to the rest of the world that they can also nullify treaties with us.
This would be devastating to our leadership role in the world and would make us the laughingstock of the international community.
Hundreds of years worth of treaties with countries all around the world would be in jeopardy of being trashed simply because Donald Trump is incapable of not insulting and bullying others.
He is the most significant threat facing our country and the rest of the world today and the only way to put that threat down is to make sure he never becomes president.Featured image via Getty Images