Following all the idiotic drama of Donald Trump s choosing Mike Pence of Indiana for his running mate, Hillary Clinton s choice of Senator Tim Kaine may have seemed a little lackluster to some.
However, Kaine compliments Hillary in a way that many people probably haven t thought of, and their pairing makes Trump and Pence look far worse now than before.Politifact, which Republicans revile because they think facts are pesky, annoying things to be ignored, put out a scorecard with the ratings of 27 statements Tim Kaine has made.
It turns out that he has more statements rated True and Mostly True than he does Half True, Mostly False, and False put together.
He has no Pants On Fire ratings at all.Compare that to Mike Pence.
Politifact has rated 20 statements Pence has made, and of those 20, only four are True or Mostly True.
Four!
He has six Half True statements and six False statements.
His only saving grace here is that he also doesn t have any Pants On Fire ratings.A look at Hillary Clinton s and Donald Trump s Politifact scorecards just drives home the point that the GOP is riddled with people who lie and spread misinformation.
Trump, being the master liar he is, has more False and Pants On Fire statements than he does Mostly False, Half True, Mostly True and True statements combined.Hillary, on the other hand, has more True and Mostly True statements than she does Half True, Mostly False, False and Pants On Fire all together, just like her chosen running mate.
These two are a good team just on that basis.So is it really any wonder that Hillary introduced her running mate as everything Donald Trump and Mike Pence are not?
Of course, she was talking about the policies that Trump and Pence are putting together, but the ability to acknowledge facts and tell the truth is another major way in which Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine are not, well, anything like any Republican we ve got.In other words, we have two presidential tickets that illustrate Republican honesty versus Democratic honesty, and Democratic honesty wins hands down.
Facts don t lie, and unfortunately for the GOP, facts have a liberal bias.Photo of Clinton/Kaine by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images.
Photo of Trump/Pence by Alex Wong/Getty Images.
Images merged by Rika Christensen