Dan Bongino, a former Secret Service agent, is trying to run for Congress again, but he might have a hard time if word of his insane temper gets out.Bongino had lost a Maryland Senate election four years ago and a congressional election in the same state two years after that, but Bongino refused to give up.
This time, the GOPer is trying to get elected in Florida s 19th district which he doesn t even live in.
In fact, Bongino s residence is actually on the opposite side of Florida.
This strange strategy came into question in an interview with Politico reporter Marc Caputo, and quickly went downhill as Caputo tried to ask the innocent question of just why Bongino would be running for Congress in a district that is nowhere near his home.
Bongino did what basically any Republican does when they re exposed and called out he had an epic, profanity-laced meltdown.Caputo inquired, So why are you running for office in a city you don t live in, in a county you don t live in, in a district you don t live in?
Bongino tried to dance around the question, but Caputo eventually got Bongino to confess that he wasn t a registered voter in the district.
So Caputo did what any reporter is supposed to do call him out: So let s see: You move down to Florida after losing two campaigns in Maryland; you say you re going to stay in Maryland and fight; you tuck tail and run away to Florida; you go look to run in District 18, you see you re not going to be able to win there; you try to run in District 19, you re losing there.
You re like a professional political candidate who loses.
For Bongino, the truth was just too much.
The GOP candidate lost all self-control and unleashed a temper tantrum that might have made Donald Trump a little bit jealous.
Some of it went like this: You re a disgusting real piece of sh*t. Go f*ck yourself, you piece of sh*t!
You don t know why I moved to Florida, motherf*cker!
You shut your mouth, you f*cking coward!
The interview ended with Bongino hanging up on Caputo, who was stunned but amused.
You can listen to the interview below, with Bongino s meldown beginning at around 14:50:Featured image via screen capture