With Donald Trump as the party s nominee, sane Republicans have been jumping ship left and right.
On the final night of the Democratic National Convention, a former Reagon official told the crowd that he would be voting for Hillary Clinton and told the bigoted billionaire point blank: You are no Ronald Reagan.
Doug Elmets was a spokesman and speechwriter for Republican hero Ronald Reagan.
Thursday night he took the stage at the DNC and said that he would be voting for a Democrat for the first time in his life this November.
I haven t just voted Republican.
I worked in President Reagan s White House, he said.
I recently led an effort to place a statue of Ronald Reagan in California s capitol.
I m here tonight to say: I knew Ronald Reagan; I worked for Ronald Reagan.
Donald Trump, you are no Ronald Reagan.
Elmets made it clear that he would be voting for Hillary in 2016 not only because of Trump but because of the Republican s party alarming and bigoted platform.
This year s Republican platform is the most alarming I ve ever seen.
It s laced with anti-immigrant, anti-gay, anti-women positions that do not represent the views of most Americans.
That is why this year, I will vote for a Democrat for the first time.
The former Reagan official then spoke directly to his fellow Republicans, telling them that if they believe loyalty to our country is more important than loyalty to party; if you want a President with a good judgment, a steady hand, and the temperament to represent our Nation to the world and our children; I ask you to join me in voting for Hillary Clinton as President of the United States.
Republicans with any sense and integrity are running from Trump and their own party as if it were the plague.
Anyone who isn t bat-sh*t crazy, regardless of party affiliation, knows that this unhinged narcissist with a bad spray tan has no business being anywhere near the Oval Office and the nuclear codes.You can watch Elmets explain why he is jumping from a sinking conservative ship here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bwUVkVdtCNA]Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images