This isn t going to go over well with Obama s Black Lives Matter folks Veteran actor Denzel Washington says his latest role as a dogged defense attorney in Roman J. Israel, Esq.
reinforced his belief that black men can t blame the system because we make it easy work when it comes to filling America s prisons.
It starts at the home.
It starts at home.
It starts with how you raise your children.
If a young man doesn t have a father figure, he ll go find a father figure, the Academy Award-winner told reporters at the Dan Gilroy-directed film s New York premiere, the New York Daily News reports.
So you know I can t blame the system.
It s unfortunate that we make such easy work for them, Washington said.The 62-year-old Hollywood heavyweight told reporters that the subject of how fatherless young men fall into a life of crime and incarceration is a personal one.
I grew up with guys who did decades (in prison), and it had as much to do with their fathers not being in their lives as it did to do with any system, said Washington, whose character finds himself working in the overburdened Los Angeles criminal court system.
Now I was doing just as much as they were, but they went further.
I just didn t get caught, but they kept going down that road and then they were in the hands of the system, the actor added.
But it s about the formative years.
You re not born a criminal.
Breitbart News This isn t the first time Washington pushed back on the victim narrative for black Americans.
The self-proclaimed radical feminist Jenn M. Jackson wrote a hit piece on Denzel Washington in December 2016.
In her article, Jackson expresses concern that Denzel is a little less woke than all of us had hoped.
She even suggests that instead of being honest about his thoughts on racism, Washington would have been better off keeping his mouth shut.
LOL!
From Jackson s hit piece on Washington: In a recent interview with BET, Washington was asked if he thought colorism (the discrimination against people with darker skin tones) was holding back darker-skinned Black actresses in Hollywood.
As BGLH reports, Washington was initially confused about what colorism was, asking the interviewer, Smriti Mundhra, what does that mean?
Moments later he said, One of the best roles for a woman of any color in the last, in a good good while or at least any movie that I ve been in, a dark-skinned woman has in this film.
So as long as you re being lead by outside forces or just being reactionary then you won t move forward.
You have to continue to get better.
However, he goes on to add, You can say, Oh I didn t get the part because they gave it to the light-skinned girl, or you can work, and one day, it might take twenty years, and you can be Viola.
He continues, The easiest thing to do is to blame someone else, the system.
Yeah, well, there s a possibility, maybe, that you re not good enough, but it s easy to say it s someone else s fault.
But there s a possibility that you re not ready and you can still blame it on someone else instead of getting ready.