Donald Trump has an extremely messed up perception of his standing with minorities.After being wildly offensive when it comes to women, Hispanics, and Muslims, Trump seriously believes that African Americans will support him even though he s made it clear that he supports white supremacists.
For years, Trump has boasted that he has a great relationship with the blacks, and yesterday he made one of the most ridiculous claims in his campaign history (which is quite impressive, when you think about it).
Trump believes he ll actually be more respected and loved by black people than President Barack Obama.In an interview with Fox News Howard Kurtz, Trump was asked if he would reach out to minorities more.
Forever-delusional Trump said he d be great with with Hispanics, Asians, and especially African Americans.
Trump said: The African Americans love me, because they know I m gonna bring back jobs.
The interview gets even more unbelievable as the Republican presidential front runner says: They re gonna like me better than they like Obama.
The truth is Obama has done nothing for them.
Kurtz actually looks very uncomfortable and confused as Trump is saying this, and asks The Donald if he in all seriousness just said that African Americans will like him more than America s first black president.
Even in his column, Kurtz revealed that Trump s confident statement was so audacious that he needed a moment before he could respond to the idiocy.Trump answered that although Obama has a slight advantage over him, once Trump completes his term of office, he ll be the clear favorite.Here s the video of the awkward video, which is almost too crazy to laugh at:Trump is in for a rude awakening if he thinks he s going to get the black vote especially considering the fact that statistically, African Americans tend to vote Democratic over Republican by a long shot.
Another statistic that Trump should really familiarize himself with before continuing to brag about how much more black people will prefer him over Obama is President Obama s approval rating.
According to a 2014 Gallup poll, Obama s approval rating with black voters is 84% which was actually the lowest of his entire time in the White House.
If Trump thinks he can beat that, even when he proves that he is a racist bigot on an everyday basis, he s dreaming.Featured image is a screenshot