A few weeks ago, Rachel Maddow did a comparison of Donald Trump and notorious racist George Wallace on her show.
One of the points she made about the 2016 candidate and the 1968 candidate is how violent they both are.
Like George Wallace, Trump is able to get his crowds riled up into such a frenzy that they start attacking protesters.
At the beginning of his campaign, The Donald would do it by screeching GET HIM OUTTA HERE, but during a recent event, he actually said he d like to punch a protester in the face.During a campaign event in Nevada on Monday night, Trump flipped out after he was interrupted by some hecklers and said: You know what I hate?
There s a guy, totally disruptive, throwing punches we re not allowed to punch back anymore.
In the old days, you know what they used to do with guys like that when they were in a place like this?
They d be carried out on a stretcher, folks.
Yeah, that imbecile thinks that protesting at one of his events warrants being carried out on a stretcher.
But he wasn t finished.
When one of the protesters was removed by security, the man was smiling and this really pissed Trump off, he said, I d like to punch him in the face, I ll tell you that.
There s a guy throwing punches, nasty as hell, screaming and everything else when we re talking, and we re talking out we re not allowed, the guards are very gentle with him, he s walking, like, big high fives, smiling, laughing I d like to punch him in the face.
According to Politico security admitted that nobody was throwing punches.
Instead, it looks like Trump made that up to justify his violent words.
This is, of course, not surprising coming from a man who once applauded his supporters for kicking and punching a Black Lives Matter protester.
It is, however, frightening that this man is in first place in the GOP polls.
A man who stands on a stage and incites violence.
A man who that is how a president should behave.
This is what the Republican Party is offering up to the country: a schoolyard bully.
Seriously?
And they wonder why their party is slowly dying Watch:Featured image via video screenshot