Establishment Republican Reince Priebus is gone The establishment Republican so many have blamed for White House leaks or ties to White House leakers met his fate today.
After only 6 months as President Trump s White House Chief of Staff, Trump went around the media and announced on Twitter he was being replace with General John F. Kelly:I am pleased to inform you that I have just named General/Secretary John F Kelly as White House Chief of Staff.
He is a Great American .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 28, 2017 and a Great Leader.
John has also done a spectacular job at Homeland Security.
He has been a true star of my Administration Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 28, 2017Mr.
Priebus, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, lost his job just hours after the president s signature drive to repeal his predecessor s health care program collapsed on the Senate floor and a day after an ugly feud with the new communications director erupted in a public airing of the deep animosities plaguing the White House.The announcement capped a fraught 24 hours in which the president s advisers waited for a change they had long anticipated.
Mr. Priebus accompanied Mr. Trump on Air Force One for a day trip to Long Island as his fate was being decided.
Making for a tense flight, his rival, Anthony Scaramucci, the communications director who had publicly vowed to force Mr. Priebus s resignation, was also on the plane and in the motorcade.Was Priebus the leaker?
According to a report by Mediaite, Fox s The Five host and friend to the president, Kimberly Guilfoyle told President Trump on Wednesday night he was Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle appears to have echoed Anthony Scaramucci s sentiments on Reince Priebus to President Donald Trump during a Wednesday night dinner at the White House, only without the profanity.The Five co-host was invited, along with her colleague Sean Hannity and former Fox News Executive Bill Shine, to the White House Wednesday night to dine with the president.
And a report from The New York Times alleges that Guilfoyle told Trump that his Chief of Staff was a problem and a leaker during that dinner.
According to an anonymous source who was briefed on their conversation, Guilfoyle also told the president that Priebus was someone who was not serving his agenda.
On Thursday night, Guilfoyle confirmed to her co-hosts on The Five that she did have dinner with the president.
And while she refrained from going into detail about her conversations with Trump, she claimed that he was in a very, very good mood and was enthused about his agenda going forward.Guilfoyle didn t go after Priebus on-air, but she did say that something needs to be done regarding to the numerous White House shakeups.
MediaiteIn barely half a year on the job, Mr. Priebus never won the full confidence of the president nor was granted the authority to impose a working organizational structure on the West Wing.
Always seeming to be on the edge of ouster, Mr. Priebus saw his fate finally sealed a week ago when Mr. Trump hired Mr. Scaramucci, an edgy Wall Street financier, over the chief of staff s objections.
Mr. Priebus s ally, Sean Spicer, the press secretary, resigned in protest.
NYT