Donald Trump is still struggling to wriggle out from under his abortion blunder as evidenced by this interview on Fox News Sunday.Unable to phone it in thanks to host Chris Wallace refusing to choose ratings over holding on to the last shred of journalistic integrity Fox has left, Trump was asked point-blank if he is blowing his campaign because of offensive remarks he made last week when he said women should be punished for getting an abortion which has drawn outrage from pro-choice groups and faux outrage from anti-choice groups who only pretend that they don t want to punish women in some way for making the choice they disagree with.The outrage forced Trump to backtrack and he continued to spin his comments after telling Wallace that he thinks his campaign is still going strong despite them.Trump slammed anti-choice groups for not being conservative enough, a charge that these groups often use to justify defeating Republican incumbents in primaries, which only makes Congress more extreme resulting in the obstruction and cruel anti-women legislation we see today.
Look, it was asked as a hypothetical, and talked about if it s illegal and it was hypothetically asked, Trump claimed.
A very strong conservative group would have said that was the appropriate answer.
I m not saying it was the appropriate answer, I say it s the doctor s fault or whoever performs the act, it s their fault.
But there was a time when that would have been.
After being asked why he singled out women for punishment, Trump again claimed that it was a hypothetical question.
Because it was asked hypothetically, Trump said.
I said the woman because it was asked hypothetically.
I also corrected it, and I made it very much so that I think everybody it s acceptable now to everybody.
Here s the video via YouTube.Trump has explained his remarks in other ways besides claiming that it was a hypothetical question.
He has accused both MSNBC and CBS of editing his remarks and taking them out of context.
He has also taken five positions on abortion in the last three days.The bottom line is abortion rights are protected by the 14th Amendment and is a legal and necessary medical procedure.
So women and their doctors should not have to face any punishment at all.Anti-abortion groups can claim they don t want to punish women all they want but the fact of the matter is that just by outlawing abortion alone they would be punishing women by forcing them to seek dangerous methods to end their pregnancies in absence of a safe procedure in an equipped medical environment.
Women would also be punished because conservatives would also ban many forms of contraception they wrongly believe cause abortions.
Clinic closures have also left thousands of women without services such as cancer screenings and STD treatments.And let s not pretend anti-abortion groups haven t threatened, stalked, or harassed women who go to clinics to end their unwanted pregnancies.
And forcing women to carry an unwanted pregnancy alone would be a punishment because many women who seek an abortion do so because they cannot afford to bring another child into the world.
Basically, conservatives would be punishing women financially.
And then there are women who got pregnant as a result of rape.
Banning abortion would punish these women by forcing them to give birth to their rapist s baby, sentencing them to many years of having to deal with their rapist, especially in states where rapists can seek parental rights.In addition, Republicans have passed laws ranging from mandatory invasive ultrasounds to waiting periods to fetal homicide laws, which punish women every day.
Some are even investigated and have been sent to jail just because of a miscarriage.So, yes, anti-abortion groups want to punish women.
To believe otherwise is foolish.
Donald Trump was simply repeating their real stance out loud.
Featured image via Screenshot