Republicans love minorities.
Let me rephrase that.
Republicans love minorities who regularly squat down and take a big dookie on their own people.Donald Trump s Latino for Trump founder is the perfect Republican Latino, in that he is self-hating.
On Full Frontal with Samantha Bee, Marco Gutierrez (the guy who threatened taco trucks on every corner if Hillary wins) went even further and insulted literally every Hispanic on the planet by calling them primitive and underdeveloped.
Appearing on Samantha Bee s late-night show Monday night, Gutierrez warned, As Hispanics, we are a primitive and underdeveloped culture.
We ll take whatever we can take if you let us.
Asked if that means people should be scared of Mexicans, Gutierrez replied, Yes, you should be very frightened.
Here s the crazy video:Well, Hispanics are frightened of a Trump presidency.
And they could very well be the determining factor into who does win the election.
Trump s own words against immigration turned most Hispanics against him (72 percent).
His anti-Hispanic rhetoric could turn even traditionally red, but heavily Hispanic states, like Texas, blue.While Gutierrez is a relatively tiny player in Trump s well of surrogates, he s become a national joke, so what he says gets a lot of play something the Trump campaign is probably cringing over, but not enough to actually disavow themselves.Gutierrez s foot in mouth style is the best news possible for Hillary Clinton.
If anything, Gutierrez will help get out the vote, for the other side.All of these (swing) states are crucial to Trump s ability to win the presidency, and if he can t reverse this trend, beating Clinton could be near impossible unless there is a drop off in Hispanic turnout compared to four years ago.That doesn t appear likely at this point, said a senior analyst for Latino Decisions, the firm that conducted the poll on behalf of America s Voice, a liberal group that supports comprehensive immigration reform and the legalization of illegal immigrants.
The question is: Is Trump going to motivate higher turnout?
David Damore said Friday in an interview with the Washington Examiner.
I think there s a potential for that to occur.
Source: Washington ExaminerFeatured image via video screen capture.