During a recent interview on Anderson Cooper 360, Mexico s former president, Vicente Fox, said that Donald Trump reminds [him] of Hitler.
Today, he s going to take that nation back to the old days of conflict, war and everything.
I mean, he reminds me of Hitler.
That s the way he started speaking, Fox told CNN s Anderson Cooper.
He has offended Mexico, Mexicans, immigrants.
He has offended the Pope.
He has offended the Chinese.
He s offended everybody.
You can watch the interview below:Earlier this week, Fox had made national headlines after he told Fusion s Jorge Ramos, I m not going to pay for that f*cking wall, while discussing Trump s plan to build a giant border wall between the United States and Mexico.
A wall that Trump insists must be paid for by Mexico.You can watch the interview below:In response to Fox s comments, Trump went on Twitter to demand an apology from Fox because he used the F word.
Here s the tweet:FMR PRES of Mexico, Vicente Fox horribly used the F word when discussing the wall.
He must apologize!
If I did that there would be a uproar!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2016Fox isn t the only former president of Mexico who has compared Trump to Hitler this week.
The Guardian reports the ex-president Felipe Calderon spoke to reporters and said that Trump is praising white supremacy .
This logic of praising the white supremacy is not just anti-immigration.
He is acting and speaking out against immigrants that have a different skin color than he does, it is frankly racist and [he is] exploiting feelings like Hitler did in his time, Calderon said.The idea that building a border wall between Mexico and the U.S. would do help to curb illegal immigration into the U.S. is pure nonsense.
Immigration from Mexico has been on the decline for several years, India and China are number countries of origin for immigrants.
Furthermore, 40% of immigrants who are living in the U.S. came here by airplane legally on temporary visas.The idea that Mexico would pay for the mega project, that wouldn t actually achieve anything, is simply delusional.Featured image from video screenshot via YouTube