Russia and Vladimir Putin got what they wanted last night when Donald Trump won the election.Throughout this campaign, Trump suggested policies that would weaken the NATO alliance that has helped Europe resist the threat of Russian military advances for decades.Trump advisers have also suggested that he would lift sanctions against Russia and the GOP platform has removed a plank condemning Putin s aggressive seizure of the Crimea in Ukraine.
Now Russian is emboldened because they have someone in the White House that they can take advantage of.And make no mistake about it, Donald Trump will be Putin s puppet.That s why Russia is now openly bragging about helping Trump win.According to The Guardian,Sergei Markov, a pro-Kremlin political analyst, was jubilant at the result and said a Trump presidency would make it more likely the US would agree with Russia on Syria, where the two powers back different sides and Moscow has intervened decisively on behalf of the president, Bashar al-Assad.Markov also said it would mean less American backing for the terroristic junta in Ukraine .
He denied allegations of Russian interference in the election, but said maybe we helped a bit with WikiLeaks.
Trump s victory certainly scares Russian investigative journalist Yevgania Albats.
As it became clear that Hillary Clinton lost, she called the election a disaster that Putin will use to his advantage.
I cannot believe it, she said.
There will be absolutely no constraints on Putin now at all.
This will be a disaster.
Indeed, and if Putin decides to attack NATO-affiliated nations such as those in the Baltics, Trump has already declared that those nations are on their own if they don t bigger dues to maintain the NATO alliance.When asked in July is he would rush to aid these nations militarily if Russia attacks, Trump said If they fulfill their obligations to us, the answer is yes.
In other words, Trump is willing to abandon our allies and allow Russia to gain a foothold in Europe over money even though every member nation contributes their fair share.Even Ronald Reagan would not have abandoned NATO, nor would he have allowed Russia to influence American power.
But Trump is poised to do just that and the Kremlin rewarded him handsomely by making him president via espionage.Republicans should be ASHAMED of themselves.Featured Image: Photo of Donald Trump by Joe Raedle/Getty Images.
Photo of Vladimir Putin by Thierry Chesnot/Getty Images.
Images merged by Rika Christensen