SANTIAGO (Reuters) - Billionaire conservative Sebastian Pinera will begin a second term as Chile s president in March with a strong mandate after trouncing his center-left opponent in Sunday s election, and local markets soared on hopes of more investor-friendly policies.
Still, Pinera will face a divided Congress and an upstart leftist coalition that has promised to fight his plans to lower taxes and refine the progressive policies undertaken by outgoing center-left President Michelle Bachelet.
Pinera s previous stint as president, from 2010 to 2014, was marked by huge student protests.
Speaking to reporters after meeting with Bachelet on Monday, Pinera struck a tone of unity, saying he would work to form a broad cabinet, of continuity and change.
Chile s peso strengthened more than 2 percentage points against the dollar on Monday, while the IPSA stock index hit an all-time high and was up nearly 7 percent, as investors bet on more business-friendly policies under a Pinera administration.
Chile is the world s top copper producer and the country s vast mining industry is also counting on Pinera s support.
The business magnate has promised to cut red tape and has pledged support and stable funding for state-run miner Codelco, saying the company is reinventing itself and needs investment.
Codelco needs strong management and must improve its efficiency, he told reporters.
With his nine-percentage point win over center-left senator Alejandro Guillier in Sunday s runoff presidential election, Pinera, 68, won more votes than any presidential candidate since Chile s return to democracy in 1990.
It was the biggest ever loss for the center-left coalition that has dominated Chile s politics since the end of Augusto Pinochet s dictatorship.
Other South American countries including Argentina, Peru and Brazil have also shifted to the political right in recent years.
The results of a first round vote and a congressional election last month pointed to a more divided country, however.
Far-left candidate Beatriz Sanchez captured 20 percent of votes, nearly as many as the more moderate Guillier, suggesting some dissatisfaction with Chile s long-standing free-market model.
Guillier on Sunday acknowledged the harsh defeat and urged his supporters to defend Bachelet s progressive policies, which have included overhauls of tax, labor and education laws in an effort to fight persistent inequality in one of South America s most developed economies.
Pinera said Bachelet had confirmed she plans to present parliament with a bill to recast Chile s dictatorship-era constitution before her term ends in March.
Such a change was also a key campaign promise of Guillier.
Pinera said he agreed on perfecting it (the constitution) but in a climate of unity.
Pinera s Chile Vamos party has 72 of 155 representatives in the lower house, more than any other bloc.
Still, without an outright majority in either chamber of the legislature, Pinera s supporters will have to form alliances to pass most laws.
Sanchez s coalition earned its first senate seat and around 20 seats in the lower house in November s election.
The Frente Amplio commits to continuing to work for a changing Chile, with more rights and more democracy, she wrote in a tweet congratulating Pinera, referring to the leftist Broad Front party.
Efforts by Pinera s ideological allies in Brazil and Argentina to reduce fiscal deficits by cutting spending and reforming pension systems have faced political opposition and sparked protests in recent months.
What I think he s going to do is perfect Bachelet s reforms, make them more effective, more efficient, maybe help out business a little bit more, said analyst Kenneth Bunker, of political research group Tresquintos.
But he ll be cutting around the edges, he s not going to have power in Congress to do everything he would otherwise.
Pinera has sought to strike a conciliatory tone.
In a speech at his home following his meeting with Bachelet, he said, Yesterday Chileans handed us a great victory.
But I will be the president of all the Chileans, both those who voted for me and those who voted for Alejandro Guillier.