Here s something not everybody knows about: Vanity Fair s Graydon Carter once called Donald Trump a short-fingered vulgarian in an article.
Ever since that time, Trump has sent him odd little letters defending his small hands, digits, whatever you want to call them.You d think Trump does this kind of thing for more publicity (there s always that inkling of possibility) but not so, in this case, says Mr. Carter.Here he is in his own words, describing how much it bothers Trump, and the lengths Trump has gone to dismiss the writer s claims: Just to drive him a little bit crazy, I took to referring to him as a short-fingered vulgarian in the pages of Spy magazine.
That was more than a quarter of a century ago.
To this day, I receive the occasional envelope from Trump.
There is always a photo of him generally a tear sheet from a magazine.
On all of them he has circled his hand in gold Sharpie in a valiant effort to highlight the length of his fingers.
I almost feel sorry for the poor fellow because, to me, the fingers still look abnormally stubby.
The most recent offering arrived earlier this year, before his decision to go after the Republican presidential nomination.
Like the other packages, this one included a circled hand and the words, also written in gold Sharpie: See, not so short!
I sent the picture back by return mail with a note attached, saying, Actually, quite short.
Which I can only assume gave him fits.
Now the internet is finally catching on, and in this day in age of social media, Twitter, Facebook, and internet memes to boot, the combination is quite hysterical.
There s even an entire page on Twitter devoted to making fun of Trump s fingers, called, you guessed it, Trumpfingers.But, Trumpfingers isn t the only one getting in on the action.
A simple search on Twitter of Trump fingers or Trump small hands will display all sorts of results.
As if the internet didn t already have enough memes mocking Trump, now there s more on a different subject matter entirely.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Wikimedia.It sounds silly once you think about it, but the fact that it bothers Trump is even sillier.
No one wants to worsen any further Trump s apparent body dysmorphic disorder, but nobody said politics was easy.
If Trump was even halfway as nice to Muslims at his rallies as they are to him, we might lay off of it.
But guys like him don t deserve any remorse from us.If everybody shows up to vote this November, you can rest assured Donald Trump will NEVER get the privilege of holding up his short-fingered vulgarian hands to administer the oath of office of president.
Let s make sure that doesn t happen.Featured image via Facebook