Former Republican speaker John Boehner has launched a blistering attack on GOP presidential hopeful Ted Cruz, in which he describes the Texas senator as satan incarnate, and a miserable son of a b*tch.
Boehner was asked about his views on Cruz and other presidential candidates during an event held at Stanford University this week.
The Stanford Daily reported that Boehner replied: I have Democrat friends and Republican friends.
I get along with almost everyone, but I have never worked with a more miserable son of a b*tch in my life.
Adding that he considers Cruz to be: Lucifer in the flesh.
This was in sharp contrast to his views on the other candidates.
Boehner revealed that he is on friendly terms with frontrunner Donald Trump, stating that the two are actually texting buddies.
One can only imagine the contents of those texts.And how does Boehner feel about outside challenger and fellow Ohioan John Kasich?
Not much apparently.
[Kasich] requires more effort on my behalf than all my other friends but he s still my friend, and I love him.
Boehner went on to state that in the event of a run off between Ted Cruz and Donald Trump, he would throw his vote and support behind a Trump candidacy.
Of course, the frontrunner may well be forced to consider that with a friend like Boehner, he may require no enemies.
The former speaker is, like Trump, a fairly divisive figure in the Republican Party and wider conservative movement.Of course, as Addicting Info s Matthew Desmond pointed out earlier today, this is all becoming a moot point.
Like it or not, the campaigns of Ted Cruz and John Kasich are essentially over.
Donald Trump is the de facto Republican candidate for President.The GOP clown car has delivered perhaps the most repugnant presidential candidate since Barry Goldwater.
The party will have to live with that, but America still has the chance to repeat the landslide of 1964 against Trump in 2016 and remind the world that the U.S. is committed to progress, not hate.Featured image via Flickr Creative Commons/Flickr Creative Commons