The Morning Joe panel couldn t contain their laughter this morning after Joe Scarborough made a hilarious observation about Donald Trump.Despite the fact that Trump is 70 years old, Scarborough couldn t help but compare Trump s behavior to that of a toddler.As the panel discussed Trump s covfefe boondoggle, Mika Brzezinski reminded Scarborough about something he said before the program.
I think you said something before the show that really kind of summed it up, she began.
Like a kid pooping their pants and then saying I meant to do that!
Indeed, Trump s imaginary new word has been on top of the news for days now and even Sean Spicer was forced to defend it by saying that Trump meant to say it.
Even dictionary publishers are having a hard time with it.And Scarborough s comparison was absolutely perfect.
Yes, it would be like somebody pooping their pants and people looking at it saying, That s modern art, don t you understand?
Scarborough said.
I am making a statement against Russian aggression in Crimea, and so this is my statement, and if you don t get it something s wrong with you and not me.
The panelists couldn t contain their laughter, but Scarborough wasn t done yet.
It s not enough that Trump is constantly shitting himself.
He s also sitting in it and making everyone around him sit in it, too.
I m going to make another statement and I m going to sit down in my pants, and it will then be modern art and I will hang it on your wall, Scarborough continued.
That s what covfefe, if anybody wants to know, that small group knows what covfefe is poopy pants.
He does a verbal version of that every day, but it s not just him.
Unfortunately now Donald Trump has people doing that rhetorically in their pants every day.
Here s the video via VidMe.Donald Trump has been shitting himself every day since Election Day.
He couldn t even stop shitting himself when he went abroad to the Middle East and Europe.
He embarrassed America every day during that trip and then he came home and shit himself again.
Trump is pathetic and he needs to be booted out of office along with anyone who supports him.
Presidents should not be able to smear the red, white, and blue with shit and get away with it.Featured Image: Screenshot