Apparently, the U.S. leader has attitude issues.
President Barack Obama has been slated by his own brother and revealed he will back Republican Donald Trump in the Presidential race.
Speaking live from Kenya on British TV, Malik Obama also spoke about his relationship with Barack and claimed he has to make appointments to see him.
And he told Good Morning Britain hosts Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid that the US leader has issues with attitude.
He said: [Barack] has this attitude like I m the president, I ve made it, I m the star here .
I do understand that but I m just expressing my opinion and how I feel.
In a swipe at his sibling s incredible political career, Malik added: Looking back, he made so many promises when he was running for president.
He was riding on the promise of hope.
There was so much excitement and we thought he would do so many things.
But look at the Middle East right now.
It s a mess.
People are being killed all over the place; Berlin, Florida, France, Brussels.
And look at the situation in Iraq right now.
Malik also sounded pretty miffed when he revealed he has to request an appointment when he wants to see his brother.
I have to go through this woman and make a request, saying I would like to see him, Malik added.
Then I just have to wait.
The last time I requested to see him was June 15th and I ve only just got a response.
And that s how it usually works.
It all depends on whether there s an opening in his diary.
The most shocking point Malik made during the interview was that he plans to vote for Barack s rival Donald Trump in the upcoming U.S. elections.Although the president is backing his friend Hilary Clinton for the job and has made no secret of his feelings towards Donald, Malik was more than happy to explain why he isn t supporting his brother.
Something is going on with Hilary that I don t like, he explained.
Donald on the other hand, he speaks his mind and is straight forward.
And remember, the Republican party is the party of Abraham Lincoln who freed slaves and freed the black man.