Hillary is guilty as hell; she is without question The Godmother of Birtherism.
And our media is without question a left-wing pack of degenerate liars and cover-up artists.
John NolteThe birther movement came under new scrutiny Friday as a reporter accused Sidney Blumenthal of spreading the malicious rumor during the 2008 campaign, just as Donald Trump finally renounced the conspiracy about President Obama Friday.Trump kicked off a new examination of the myth when he stated Friday that Clinton and her campaign started the birther controversy .
THE PRESS IS IN CAHOOTS WITH CLINTON AND HER SURROGATES HERE ARE A FEW OF THE THINGS THE MEDIA WON T TELL YOU ABOUT THE BIG LIE OF BIRTHERISM:In order to justify this audacious lie, the media engages in a transparently desperate act of hyper-literalism.
Through the anti-science art of defining the definition of Birtherism down to meaning only the questioning of Barack Obama s place of birth, they seem to believe they can hide the elephant.Yes, in order to shield Hillary, America s entire political media, thousands of so-called independent journalists across dozens of competing news outlets, are coordinating to remove the definitions of Birtherism that Hillary is clearly guilty of.
This includes, smearing Obama as a Muslim, her campaign s stated goal of questioning his lack of American roots, her focusing on Obama s exotic foreignness ; and yes, the questioning of Obama s place of birth.For social media purposes, let me arm you with the facts.
And your job now is to not just use whatever means are at your disposal to disseminate these facts, you should also use these facts to challenge our corrupt media and ask them (politely) why they are letting Hillary off the hook.Here are 11 things our corrupt media does not want the public to know about Hillary Clinton s role in inventing Birtherism.
Please note that all of my sources are mainstream media sources.1.
Birtherism was Birthed In a Hillary Clinton Campaign MemoIn 2007, a full year before anyone would know the name Orly Taitz, Hillary s chief campaign strategist Mark Penn would craft a wide-ranging strategy memo that included questioning the very American-ness of then-Senator Barack Obama, who was even then seen as Hillary s chief rival for the nomination.The Atlantic:[Penn] wrote, I cannot imagine America electing a president during a time of war who is not at his center fundamentally American in his thinking and in his values.
Penn proposed targeting Obama s lack of American roots.
From Bloomberg s 2012 article: The Democratic Roots of the Birther Movement Penn also suggested how the campaign might take advantage of this.
Every speech should contain the line that you were born in the middle of America to the middle class in the middle of the last century, he advised Clinton.
And talk about the basic bargain as about [sic] the deeply American values you grew up with, learned as a child, and that drive you today.
He went on: Let s explicitly own American in our programs, the speeches and the values.
He doesn t Let s add flag symbols to the backgrounds [of campaign events].
2.
Hillary s Hardcore Supporters First Raised the Question of Obama s BirthAs the contest between Obama and Hillary became increasingly ugly, it was Hillary s hardcore supporters who first raised doubts about the origins of Obama s birth.
Hillary gave her blessing through her silence.
It wouldn t take long, though, before her campaign became directly involved.Politico:That theory first emerged in the spring of 2008, as Clinton supporters circulated an anonymous email questioning Obama s citizenship.
Barack Obama s mother was living in Kenya with his Arab-African father late in her pregnancy.
She was not allowed to travel by plane then, so Barack Obama was born there and his mother then took him to Hawaii to register his birth, asserted one chain email that surfaced on the urban legend site Snopes.com in April 2008.The Daily Telegraph s 2011 article: The Birther Row Began With Hillary :It was not until April 2008, at the height of the intensely bitter Democratic presidential primary process, that the touch paper was properly lit.An anonymous email circulated by supporters of Mrs. Clinton, Mr Obama s main rival for the party s nomination, thrust a new allegation into the national spotlight that he had not been born in Hawaii.3.
Hillary Clinton s Own Campaign Distributes Obama-Is-A-Scary-Muslim EmailsPolitiFact:In the fall of 2007, it was clear that Clinton was losing ground in Iowa.
The presumptive front runner was vulnerable and people in the campaign knew it.
On Dec. 5, 2007, the online magazine Politico posted the text of an email that had been forwarded by Judy Rose, the volunteer chair of the Clinton campaign in Jones County Iowa on Nov. 21, 2007.
The email was a quintessential smear that offered a distorted biography of Obama s early years.
Rose offered no commentary on it.
She simply passed it along.
Obama takes great care to conceal the fact that he is a Muslim, the email said, and it ended with, The Muslims have said they plan on destroying the U.S. from the inside out, what better way to start than at the highest level through the President of the United States , one of their own!!!!
4.
Judy Rose Was Not Fired Until AFTER the Media Discovered Her EmailPolitiFact:The public airing of the email brought a quick reaction from the Clinton campaign.
On Dec. 6, 2007, the Associated Press reported that Rose had resigned as chair of her county committee.5.
A Second Hillary Campaign Staffer Sent a Similar EmailPolitiFact:A few days later, a second volunteer in a different county stepped down when it was learned that she had forwarded a similar email in October.6.
Obama Privately Confronted Hillary Over Her BirtherismThis is such a juicy story.PolitiFact:The episode in Iowa fueled a testy exchange between Obama and Clinton on the tarmac of Reagan National Airport in December 2007.
According to accounts from people who were there, Obama complained about the emails and Clinton boiled over in anger.When asked about Clinton and the Obama-Muslim myth, Josh Schwerin, a spokesman for the Clinton s current campaign, told us Clinton never pushed that.
Read the rest of the 11 things the media won t tell you: Daily Wire Read more: DAILY MAIL