It has been nearly fifty years since the landmark Supreme Court ruling, Loving v. Virginia, that made interracial marriages (relationships) legal in the United States, but apparently some people are unaware of the ruling.
A teenager in Texas recently tweeted an infuriating letter from her dad explaining the reason why he s disowning her: the relationship she was in with an African-American male.Stephanie Hicks, 19, is dating a black male and apparently this pissed her father off so much that he disowned her.
In a letter she posted on Twitter, her father says: My belief is that interracial relationships are despicable.
Vulgar and reprehensible.
There s nothing worse than a half-black, and I m crushed that my own daughter has entered into such a disgusting relationship Mistakes can be forgiven, but you have willingly and consciously chosen a lifestyle of sickening choices, and I won t tolerate it.
Her father then tells her that is she does not break up with her boyfriend, Nike, that she is not welcome in his life any longer: If you choose this black kid over your parents fill [suitcases] up and leave my house Change your name as soon as possible, because I won t have any association with you.
Ever.
First of all, as a parent, I am disgusted by this piece of garbage who has the audacity to call himself Dad.
If he s are willing to disown his child over who they are dating, he never had any business raising a kid in the first place.Secondly, it is 2016 and no matter how much the GOP would like us all to believe racism is dead, it is clearly alive and thriving in the state of Texas.
Her father called her relationship sickening but the only thing sickening about any of this is that guy s vile, hatred for a person because of the melanin he has in his skin.
It is sad that this is even a battle that needs to be fought still, but it does.Like Stephanie, I am super white.
I m so white that you could all use me to guide your way through a dark forest and my husband isn t white at all.
I also live in the South, just like her and know what it is like to have people stare at me with disgust because my husband and child are naturally tan.
Seriously.
In 2016.America really has changed that much in the last fifty years because we have an entire political party that campaigns on platforms of racism and hate hell, just look at Donald Trump.
And this is going to continue to be a problem until we all step up and fight back.
That means that we all have to vote for progressive candidates who want to move this country forward, not back.Hopefully, Stephanie takes this and uses it to become an even stronger human being.
Sometimes the best thing a toxic person can do for you is cut themselves out of your life.
Featured image via Twitter