Earlier today, Youtube had taken down the video from the Ali Forney Center gala in New York City on October 13th where it only took Maxine Waters 27 seconds before she threatened President Trump.
We looked everywhere but the video was gone from every source.
After much digging, we found a clip of it on Facebook so here you go:Waters starts off with, Wow, what a moving evening this is.
Then this: I m sitting here listening, watching, absorbing, thinking about Ali even though I never met him.
And with this kind of inspiration, I will go and take out Trump tonight, she said as the crowd roared in approval and Waters pumped her fist.
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10'; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Maxine Waters vows "I will go and take Trump out tonight!
"Maxine Waters vows "I will go and take Trump out tonight!
"Appearing at the Ali Forney Center gala in New York City, it only took Waters 27 seconds before she slammed Trump.
Feeling inspired, Mad Maxine promised the group that she would 'go and take Trump out tonight!'.
Like >> Share >> Follow >> The New Revolution IIPosted by The New Revolution II on Saturday, October 21, 2017Just two days later, Waters continued to rant about Trump, this time at a Los Angeles AIDS walk.Waters turned the event into a platform to push her personal political agenda: We face unprecedented challenges today in our struggle against HIV and AIDS and I want you to know those people in Congress on the opposite side of the aisle from me control every branch of our federal government, Waters said.
And we have, unfortunately, an unstable, erratic person in the White House.
We don t know what this president will do, or say, or tweet from one day to the next.
Don t forget, this is not a political event, but I m heading toward impeachment, Waters said with a snicker.
Another challenge we face today is Republicans determination to repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, Waters continued.
Without Obamacare, insurance companies will once again be able to deny care to the people living with HIV and other pre-existing conditions.
Furthermore, without Obamacare states like California that expanded Medicaid will not be able to cover low-income adults living with HIV.
And so, the House Republicans Obamacare repeal bill which passed the House in May will cut $100 billion from Medicaid and cause 23 million Americans to lose their health insurance, the 79-year-old career politician said.
So far, the Senate has been great.
It has refused to pass the bill.
Via: American Mirror