The Trump administration is working as hard as it can to fulfill its promise of cracking down on illegal immigration, and part of that promise was, more or less, to be as evil as possible so they won t even want to come over here.
Now, Jeff Sessions is starting to work on putting this into practice, including pushing for more severe prosecutions and punishments, even for non-violent immigrants.But it s not what he s doing that s so horrid.
It s horrid, but not nearly as much so as what he planned to called them in a speech to Border Patrol agents in Nogales.
His planned remarks included this vile portion: It is here, on this sliver of land, where we first take our stand against this filth.This is a new era.
This is the Trump era.
Now, that supposedly was referring only to criminal organizations like gangs and cartels.
However, many of the people who cross the border illegally are doing so to escape those very organizations not to expand them into the U.S.He didn t actually say this in his speech in Nogales, but it was in his prepared remarks.
The fact that it was even there shows exactly how he sees undocumented immigrants.
They re chattel, they re dirty, disgusting animals, and they re any number of things other than human beings to him.Undocumented immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than citizens.
People like to point to the fact that they make up a large share of inmates in federal prisons, but federal prisons are a small part of the total prison system in the U.S. ICE s recent numbers aren t especially telling, either since their current focus is immigrants with criminal convictions (which is why they re stalking courthouses).Trump once said that undocumented immigrants were rapists and murderers, and some, I assume, are good people.
Sessions is building upon that view of undocumented immigrants as mostly criminals, and no amount of, We re talking about criminal organizations is going to change that until this administration changes its attitude.Featured image by Michael B. Thomas via Getty Images