It might just be time to say Sen. Ted Cruz, in his desperation to win, is running the most disgusting, deceitful political campaign in U.S. history.
He seems eager to keep using these underhanded tactics.
He clearly enjoys it.After unapolegetically pissing off the entire state of Iowa with fraudulent mailers, Cruz immediately traveled to New Hampshire and beyond where he s doing the exact same thing.
In New Jersey, for example, residents woke up this week to find that Cruz had sent them a check in the mail.For a struggling family, a bit of free money coming in the mail out of the blue could mean everything.
Tearing it open, what did they find?
A shameless campaign tactic designed to get them to give money to Cruz s floundering campaign.
Rather than a check made out to them, Cruz s campaign took it upon themselves to write out a check paid to the order of Cruz for President for $45.00.It was all part of Cruz s (possibly illegal) money-making scheme that he s used in recent weeks.
Cruz has suggested that he has secret wealthy backers that have promised to match donations with regular voters.
He begs supporters to give him as much money as they can so that these anonymous, super-secret definitely real rich friends of his will double the money.While these underhanded tactics probably do work to get Cruz the money he needs to pay people to like him, it s hard to imagine they are doing wonders for his electability.
At this rate, there won t be a state in the country that Cruz hasn t personally disgusted with his slimeball campaign.
Iowa s state government is already floating the idea that they will be looking into legal action against Cruz s campaign for the numerous election laws that Cruz skated the line of.For Cruz, all of this backlash might be worth it.
He s long been considered one of the most reviled people in politics.
People who know him, people who work with him, people who once lived with him in college, all say he s a creep.
He s not going to win votes by popularity or policy.
Instead, his campaign has always been about raising a ton of money from a select group of millionaires and billionaires and then desperately clinging onto fringe right voters who find his homophobia and poor-shaming rhetoric a turn on.If Cruz s campaign continues to drag for the duration of the primaries, expect to see all the stops pulled out.
His team is clearly looking for any possible way to win ethics and lawfulness need not apply.Featured image from Gage Skidmore/Flickr