One Twitter user it put it this way: Thanks to his love of social media, we are watching the President of the United States have a mental collapse right in front of our eyes.
In real time.
It may explain why psychologists have noted a steep rise in cases of anxiety since the election.
The man in charge already the least qualified in U.S. history is plainly not well.And speculation over Trump s mental health has only gotten worse since the release of a damning Associated Press interview in which he seems incapable of stringing together even a single coherent sentence.
The full transcript is depressingly bonkers, but here s a taste:TRUMP: OK.
The one thing I ve learned to do that I never thought I had the ability to do.
I don t watch CNN anymore.AP: You just said you did.TRUMP: No.
No, I, if I m passing it, what did I just say (inaudible)?AP: You just said TRUMP: Where?
Where?AP: Two minutes ago.And here s another:You have to love people.
And if you love people, such a big responsibility.
(unintelligible) You can take any single thing, including even taxes.
I mean we re going to be doing major tax reform.
Here s part of your story, it s going to be a big (unintelligible).
Everybody s saying, Oh, he s delaying.
I m not delaying anything.
I ll tell you the other thing is (unintelligible).
I used to get great press.
I get the worst press.
I get such dishonest reporting with the media.
That s another thing that really has I ve never had anything like it before.
It happened during the primaries, and I said, you know, when I won, I said, Well the one thing good is now I ll get good press.
And it got worse.
(unintelligible) So that was one thing that a little bit of a surprise to me.
I thought the press would become better, and it actually, in my opinion, got more nasty.The interview goes on like that a rambling, incoherent word salad for its entire duration.
Adding to that is Trump s own Twitter behavior, which has gone from unhinged to something far more unsettling.
He s at the point where his persecution complex, or his anger, or his mental health crisis has reached such an intensity that he can t even remember to finish his 140 character thoughts.
This morning, Trump woke up still angry that he s the most unpopular president at his 100-day mark in America s history.
He lashed out.The Wall is a very important tool in stopping drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth (and many others)!
If Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2017 If what?
He never says.
For two hours, the if has hung on the end of his mini-meltdown without an answer.
He lost his train of thought within the span of two tweets.Two hours later, Trump tweeted a completely unrelated message.#CongratsPeggy!
https://t.co/e1q36nKT8g Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2017For these reasons and more, mental health professionals have been begging Congress to look into whether Trump is mentally fit to serve as president.
By his own actions, Trump is raising serious doubts as to whether he can be tasked with such a great responsibility.UPDATE: Three hours later, someone on Trump s staff finally told Trump to finish his thought .the wall is not built, which it will be, the drug situation will NEVER be fixed the way it should be!#BuildTheWall Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2017Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images