Kid Rock Keyboardist Jimmie Bones is shocked but sure that Kid Rock could win it all and defeat Senator Debbie Stabenow to be the new Senator from Michigan.In an interview with Billboard, Kid Rock keyboardist Jimmie Bones said his bandmate has a good shot at defeating incumbent Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) when he decides to officially enter the race.
Y know what?
That f*cker could win, that s what I think, Bones told the outlet.
He could very well pull this off.
A lot of people thought Trump couldn t win and was just a joke, and lo and behold here we are.
In Michigan [Rock] could very well win.
Bones jokingly volunteered to serve as Senator Rock s Secretary of Useless Information.
Kid Rock has announced voter registration drives but has yet to declare his candidacy for the US Senate.
His interest in running has concerned incumbent Debbie Stabenow enough that she s warned supporters.
Let s hope this happens.HERE S WHY THE DEMOCRATS ARE SCARED HE LL RUN:Kid Rock did an interview with liberal former CNN host Piers Morgan in 2013.
During that interview, it s clear that Bob Ritchie, aka Kid Rock, who is a rock star in more ways that one in the state of Michigan, has many similarities to President Donald Trump.Piers Morgan starts out his interview by pointing out that after he and Kid Rock spent several hours together during his interview, when Rock was asked about his time with Piers, he responded, Who the (bleep) is Piers Morgan?
, giving the impression that the leftist media doesn t really have much value in his eyes, or at the very least, he doesn t hold them in very high regard.Watch:Part II of Kid Rock s interview with Piers Morgan delves into Rock s political views on gun control, abortion, gay marriage and his support for the Republican Party.
Although his pro-choice stance won t likely resonate with many Republicans, there will be a number of pro-choice Republicans as well as crossover Democrats and pro-life Independents his pro-choice stance will appeal to.
He also touches on Rock s decision to raise his son Robert James Ritchie Jr. by himself, that he fathered with his on again, off again girlfriend he d been dating since the 8th grade.