Donald Trump went to new lows in his efforts to win over voters of color on Saturday morning.
On Friday, NBA star Dwayne Wade s cousin Nykea Aldridge was fatally shot while pushing her baby in a stroller outside of an elementary school in Chicago.Trump took to Twitter Saturday to say that the tragic incident clearly shows that his views on urban violence are correct and that means voters of color will vote for him November.
Dwayne Wade s cousin was just shot and killed walking her baby in Chicago.
Just what I have been saying.
African-Americans will VOTE TRUMP!
Dwayne Wade's cousin was just shot and killed walking her baby in Chicago.
Just what I have been saying.
African-Americans will VOTE TRUMP!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 27, 2016Trump has been desperately trying to win over black voters, with no success.
Tweets like the one above and other campaign blunders might have something to do with it.
According to a Reuters/Ipsos poll, Trump began August with 5.6 percent support from black voters.
That already incredibly low figure plummeted to 2.5 percent earlier this week on Monday.
So, it appears that Trump may have actually been doing much better with black voters before he actively started to try to win them over.Trump s primary message to voters of color can be summarized as, Take a chance on me.
So far, Trump has not delivered any concrete reasons on why minority voters should do so, given his completely tone deaf rhetoric and nearly, or blatantly racist and xenophobic policy proposals.Dwayne Wade took to Twitter to confirm the death of his cousin.
His Tweet also carried a political tone, one that is antithetical to Trump s campaign.
In the tweet, Wade used the hashtag #EnoughIsEnough, a slogan that came out of the Bernie Sanders campaign, to rally against another senseless act of gun violence.
After his nephew was shot twice in the leg in 2012, he created the Wade s World Foundation.
The foundation helps community organizations that help at-risk youth.My cousin was killed today in Chicago.
Another act of senseless gun violence.
4 kids lost their mom for NO REASON.
Unreal.
#EnoughIsEnough DWade (@DwyaneWade) August 27, 2016Featured image from Scott Eisen/Getty Images