Well, folks, your health care is safe for the foreseeable future according to Speaker Paul Ryan.
After the GOP abruptly pulled their healthcare bill from consideration Friday, spirits among the worst among us were pretty dim.
We just pulled it, Donald Trump told the Washington Post after the decision to nix the embarrassing disaster of a bill, noting that he doesn t blame Ryan for this huge loss.
Moving from an opposition party to a governing party comes with growing pains.
We re feeling those growing pains today, Ryan told reporters, noting that this is a disappointing day for those whose biggest dream is stripping healthcare from millions and that doing big things is hard.
All of us, all of us myself included will need to time to reflect on how we got to this moment, he added.How we got to this moment is that the Affordable Care Act is immensely popular.
While it could use some improvements like a move toward universal healthcare the GOP s effort to repeal and replace is not as popular with voters as it may have seemed on the campaign trail.But they won t actually reflect on that, will blame Obama, and will present Americans with something equally horrible somewhere down the line.Ryan was forced to utter one of the most beautiful 22 words we have heard since Donald Trump was kinda-sorta elected by less than half of the population: ObamaCare will remain the law of the land until it s replaced.
We re going to be living with ObamaCare for the foreseeable future.
The president gave his all in this effort.
He did everything he possibly could to help people see the opportunity we have with this bill.
He really has been fantastic, Ryan said.
Still, we have to do better and we will.
This battle is won.
The Affordable Care Act is safe for now.
But the war is far from over, and all of us must fight each day to oppose the GOP s hateful agenda.The only thing standing between them and the destruction of all we hold dear is us.Watch Ryan s shamed admission below:"Obamacare is the law of the land and it will remain the law of the land until it's replaced," Speaker Ryan says: https://t.co/Okz2bwUl4f pic.twitter.com/9F3MnW7oMR CBS News (@CBSNews) March 24, 2017Featured image via screengrab