Donald Trump is not just Vladimir Putin s puppet anymore.When German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the White House, Trump insulted her by refusing to shake her hand.
Trump s behavior toward Merkel drew international outrage.
Not only did Trump insult Merkel as a woman, he insulted our longtime ally.
Germany is a fellow democratic nation that has supported the United States for decades.As we all know, Trump has lavished praise upon Vladimir Putin, complimented North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, and even invited Rodrigo Duterte, who has committed human rights atrocities in the Philippines, to the White House to pal around.
You gotta give him credit, Trump once said in clear envy of Kim Jong Un.
How many young guys he was like 26 or 25 when his father died take over these tough generals, and all of a sudden he goes in, he takes over, and he s the boss.
It s incredible.
He wiped out the uncle, he wiped out this one, that one.
I mean this guy doesn t play games.
But Trump went a step further on Monday when he not only met with Egyptian dictator Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, but also shook his hand twice while being serenaded as Your Excellency by el Sisi through a translator.Trump bragged about the United States military and how he is making it even bigger and more expensive, and suggested that Egypt is gong to benefit a lot from it.After singing each other s praises, Trump eagerly shook hands with the dictator without having to be asked and later shook hands again.Clearly, Trump values dictators more than our democratically elected allies.Here s the video via YouTube:Trump has been an admirer of el-Sisi for months and even met with him during the campaign months before Election Day.The Egyptian dictator does not respect human rights and often puts advocates for democracy in prison.This is the kind of leader Trump respects and wants to be friends with and that s a problem that should not be tolerated by the American people.Also, Trump is a complete hypocrite.
While Germany pays for their own defense and military, Egypt currently gets $1.5 billion a year from the United States, and you don t see Trump handing el-Sisi a bill for it.
Trump certainly isn t demanding that Egypt pay up like he did on Twitter two weeks ago when he falsely accused Germany of owing America money for their defense.Donald Trump s insulting behavior toward our democratic allies and his admiration of dictators is un-American.Featured image via screenshot