Following in Donald Trump s footsteps of attacking military families, a mother with a son serving in the U.S. Airforce was booed at a rally for his presidential campaign on Monday.
The moment happened as the woman was attempting to ask a question of Gov.
Mike Pence, Trump s running mate.WATCH: Military mom booed at Pence rally for asking about Trump's treatment of Khan family.
pic.twitter.com/soaCWAhh6n Correct The Record (@CorrectRecord) August 1, 2016After delivering a standard stump speech, Pence took audience questions at a room inside a Carson City, Nevada, casino.The second question came from a woman who said her son serves in the U.S. Air Force.
The mother asked about Trump s treatment of Muslim parents Khizr and Ghazala Khan, whose son, a decorated Army veteran, was killed in Iraq in 2004.
Will there ever be a point in time when you re able to look Trump in the eye and tell him enough is enough?
the woman asked Pence, prompting boos from the crowd.Pence hushed the crowd as the woman had her microphone taken away, and told them, That s what freedom looks like.
That s what freedom sounds like.
Pence went on to say, Captain Khan is an American hero and we honor him and honor his family.
But neither he nor Trump repudiated the nominee s attacks on the family, who spoke out against Trump s proposed anti-Muslim ban at the Democratic Convention.Trump has insisted that he was viciously attacked by the Khans and claimed that Ghazala Khan didn t speak up at the convention due to her Islamic faith.Khan said on MSNBC and in an op-ed in the Washington Post that she was overcome with grief still at the death of her son and could not speak up.Trump has been blasted for his insensitivity by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) and other Gold Star family members who have demanded an apology.
Some Republicans governors and senators have spoken out against Trump s comments but without actually rescinding their endorsements of his presidential campaign.Featured image via screen capture