Political correctness and open-borders are a dangerous combination.
This story is proof that Europe has officially ceded their nations to mostly Muslim refugees who have no intention of assimilating with their citizens.
Progressivism is actually killing Europe.The percentage of Muslims in Europe has been rapidly increasing over the past few years, by about one percentage point every 10 years.
Muslims are expected to make up 8% of Europe s population in 2030.
I wonder how long it will take them to start decided to protect their own citizens, especially young girls, from the violent crimes being committed by Muslim refugees.
Europeans seem to fear being called racist more than they fear their women and children being raped and violently assaulted.A sex offender abducted and sexually abused two 13 and 14-year-old girls while on bail for raping another teen.Zohair Tomari, 20, who is believed to be from Syria, invited his 17-year-old victim and her 15-year-old friend to his flat in August 2014 after befriending them.Once there, the twisted attacker plied the older girl with alcohol before slapping and punching both and pulling out a knife.
Tomari, who claimed to be from Morocco in his pre-sentence report but now claims to be from Syria, told the terrified teenager that the more she cried the more he would hit her, before proceeding to rape her.Police arrived at the scene after the youngest girl was reported missing at which point the other informed them of the incident.
But the rapist was granted bail and went on to traffic two younger girls, aged 13 and 14, as they walked to a friend s home in the early hours of the morning in August last year.The pair were enticed into a car in which Tomari was a passenger and given drink and cigarettes before being led to a flat in Foleshill, Coventry, where he sexually assaulted them.
At Warwick Crown Court, Tomari, of Longford in Coventry, was found guilty of rape in relation to the incident involving the 17-year-old girl and jailed for a total of 12 years and nine months for both incidents on Thursday.The court heard how Tomari had been jailed at Coventry Crown Court in January this year after being convicted of trafficking for child sexual exploitation and sexual assaults in relation to the other incident.He will also have to serve an additional seven years on licence, and has been ordered to register as a sex offender for life.
In relation to the first attack, Judge Andrew Lockhart QC, sentencing, told Tomari: Behaviour of this nature is abhorred in virtually every civilised country on this earth.
Sadly, then you were granted bail, and you committed other offences for which you are now in prison.
I am driven to conclude you are dangerous.
I can see no end to the danger you pose.
Daily MailWhen nations welcome millions of unvetted citizens across their borders with no real understanding of whom they ve invited into their neighborhoods, schools, or community centers they are basically saying that their unique cultures and the rule of law is not worth protecting or defending.
By allowing refugees to commit crimes against their citizens with little or no repercussions, European nations are in essence agreeing to become part of the Middle East, where in many nations, male dominance, rape, sexual assault and marriage between older men and young girls is simply a way of life.