Barack Obama stutters through yet another jerky moment where he just can t zip his lips: He s the president who just won t go away: Some, some of the politics we see, now we, we thought we put that to bed.
Uh-I-uh-mean that-uh-that folks looking fifty years back.
It s the 21st century.
Obama really was the most divisive POTUS in history.
It s pretty unbelievable that he s now claiming Trump is divisive.
This made us think of slinky and the tactics used by Obama in the past to divide Americans: Saul Alinsky 101: Accuse your opponent of what only you are doing, as you are doing it, to create confusion, cloud the issue, and inoculate voters against any evidence of your guilt.
That about nails what Obama did in the video above.
He and Hillary are fans and supporters of Saul Alinsky.
Check out the video below:Let s see if you notice any other tactics used by the left in trying to bring down President Trump:Alinsky s 12 Rules: 1.
Power is not only what you have, but what the enemy thinks you have.
Power is derived from 2 main sources money and people.
Have-Nots must build power from flesh and blood.
2.
Never go outside the expertise of your people.
It results in confusion, fear and retreat.
Feeling secure adds to the backbone of anyone.
3.
Whenever possible, go outside the expertise of the enemy.
Look for ways to increase insecurity, anxiety and uncertainty.
4.
Make the enemy live up to its own book of rules.
If the rule is that every letter gets a reply, send 30,000 letters.
You can kill them with this because no one can possibly obey all of their own rules.
5.
Ridicule is man s most potent weapon.
There is no defense.
It s irrational.
It s infuriating.
It also works as a key pressure point to force the enemy into concessions.
6.
A good tactic is one your people enjoy.
They ll keep doing it without urging and come back to do more.
They re doing their thing, and will even suggest better ones.
7.
A tactic that drags on too long becomes a drag.
Don t become old news.
8.
Keep the pressure on.
Never let up.
Keep trying new things to keep the opposition off balance.
As the opposition masters one approach, hit them from the flank with something new.
9.
The threat is usually more terrifying than the thing itself.
Imagination and ego can dream up many more consequences than any activist.
10.
If you push a negative hard enough, it will push through and become a positive.
Violence from the other side can win the public to your side because the public sympathizes with the underdog.
11.
The price of a successful attack is a constructive alternative.
Never let the enemy score points because you re caught without a solution to the problem.
12.
Pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, and polarize it.
Cut off the support network and isolate the target from sympathy.
Go after people and not institutions; people hurt faster than institutions.TUCKER AND MARK STEYN DISCUSS THIS TACTIC: Why is it the left always accuses its opponents of the exact same thing they re guilty of?
@TuckerCarlson RT #MAGA #TRUMP #Weinstein pic.twitter.com/g5oI4TqVHR DONNA WARREN (@DonnaWR8) October 12, 2017