On some level, one must sympathize with Donald Trump.
The 70-year-old GOP nominee is too stupid to know he s stupid and his followers are leaps and bounds beyond that.
In a recent speech in Greensboro, North Carolina, Trump said something very telling about President Obama s remarks about the Orlando terrorist attack: Nobody at the end of that speech understood anything other than boy, does he hate Donald Trump.
What the President actually said makes perfect sense, if you re not Donald Trump or his legion of morons.
There has not been a moment in my seven and a half years as President where we have not been able to pursue a strategy because we didn t use the label, radical Islam.
The President pointed out that none of his advisors has ever told him we will turn that whole thing around if he begins using the ridiculous Fox News-coined phrase that Trump keeps spewing.
The phrase, Radical Islam isn t a strategy, Obama pointed out.
It s a talking point.Naturally, this made Trump angry.
Most people get upset when someone points out that they are mind-numbingly stupid.
But MSNBC s Lawrence O Donnell saw something in Trump s response to Obama s words that perfectly explains why he is so angry all the time:You have every right to believe that that is exactly and only what Donald Trump got out of President Obama s speech.
You have every right to believe Donald Trump didn t understand anything in the speech.
When someone as rank ignorant as Donald Trump tells you he doesn t understand something, believe him.O Donnell cut back to a clip of Trump saying that nobody understood the clear and concise remarks.
That s the way I felt after the third week of Physics class, the host said.
I didn t understand anything and it was a horrible feeling.
Imagine feeling that every day, every day of your life.
You don t understand anything.
That is the very, very sad life of Donald Trump.
He continued:There he is confessing to the constant, merciless pain of not understanding anything.
And it s very simple stuff Donald Trump is confessing he isn t understanding.
It s very simple.
Imagine what that s like, someone saying something that s very clear and concise it still might be possible to disagree with in some way, but no one should have trouble understanding that.
But Donald Trump told you today that he doesn t understand anything that President Obama said nothing.
Imagine how that must feel.
Imagine how maddening that is.
President Obama stand sup and speaks in clear, simple sentences and you understand not a word.
That has to be truly maddening.
Is that what is making Donald Trump so mad?
he asks.Have we finally nailed what makes Trump and his followers so irrationally angry about everything?
Is it truly that they don t understand anything?
Trump says he loves his poorly educated fans, and there s good reason for that he s right there with them.Watch O Donnell bring down the hammer below:Featured image via screengrab