It happened again.
One would assume that after Monday s debacle when the RNC displayed a white supremacist s tweet on a marquee scrolling around the building, they would check what they put up there.
On the third night of the GOP convention, a tweet from white power organization VDARE heaped praise on Republicans for getting the crowd fired up against illegal immigration.
On Thursday, the GOP gave voice to yet another white supremacist, this time (appropriately) during Donald Trump s speech.The most recent tweet was written by the account @Western_Triumph, whose profile description is loaded with a number of alarming hashtags, including #ProWhite, #RaceRealist, #SlayCulturalMarxism, #LoveYourRace, and #Trump2016.
On the big screen in the Quicken Loans Arena about midway through Trump s acceptance speech, Western Triumph quoted The Donald and added that It s time to start WINNING again!
The hashtag #TrumpIsWithYou was added for effect, likely because there is a sentiment in the white nationalist community that Trump is, indeed, with them.This is running on the tweet screen loop here at #RNCinCLE check out the account.
pic.twitter.com/9kgpzBLrlK Andy Aplikowski (@AAARF) July 22, 2016Here are some other tweets from that account:.
@Lesdoggg is your typical, entitled black woman:She dishes out plenty of hate to whites, but cries "racist" when they hit back!#FreeMilo Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 20, 2016So some ugly, talentless, sheboon from Ghostbusters went crying to @Jack, to make twitter her personal safe space?
Fuck that!
#FreeMilo Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 20, 2016Hillary says whites should "recognize our privilege".I say whites should recognize (((the traitors))), and begin the Great Purge!
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 18, 2016Close down every mosque in the US,Bulldoze the buildings,Salt the earth,Deport Muslims back to the Middle East!Make America Safe Again!
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 18, 2016If police can aggressively patrol black, latino, and muslim neighborhoods, We'll finally be able to Make America Safe Again.
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 18, 2016Wanna Make America Safe Again?Let cops heavily patrol black ghettos.Blacks = 13% of population,Yet are 33% of rapes, & 50% of homicides.
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 18, 2016Blacks have no idea how blessed they were To be dragged out of Africa, and brought to a place full of #WhiteInventions.
They're lucky.
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 11, 2016Just a few notable #WhiteInventions are:CannabilismAIDSTwerkingSickle Cell Disea..Wait, hold on, those are #BlackInventions.
My bad!
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 11, 2016#WhitePrivilegeMeans you need to work harder, so your taxes can pay for Laquisha's 8th ghetto baby, now that the baby-daddy 'done run off'!
Western Triumph (@Western_Triumph) July 9, 2016Western Triumph also retweets Trump incessantly.
It took all of 30 seconds to find those and with as choreographed as the RNC was, one would be quite naive to think they didn t check out and approve tweets that were displayed for the crowd.This isn t the first or the second time the Trump campaign has given voice to white supremacists.
In a single week in January, more than half of Trump s own retweets were white supremacists praising him.
In December, The Donald participated in attacks on African-Americans with a disgusting graphic misrepresenting black crime rates.
The billionaire, who has been known to keep a book of Adolf Hitler s speeches by his bedside, has (over time) won the unwavering support of racists across the nation with his promises to build a wall to keep brown people out, ban Muslims from the country, and force Muslims who are already here to wear special little badges and be entered into a national database.
Even concentration camps are not out of the question as far as he is concerned.
Hell, he s even told his bigoted, violent supporters he will pay their legal fees if they brutalize black people at his rallies.While the RNC, and Trump, will likely classify this as an oversight, the rest of us need to see it for what it is: the latest in a long pattern of Trump promoting white supremacists.
While it was once limited to his own campaign, he has now taken their cause national.It is imperative that we do not allow this to happen.
Head to the polls in November and VOTE BLUE.Featured image via screengrab