An Idaho mother who called police after her missing 12-year-old son returned home soon regretted making the call, after cops arrived and smashed the boy s face in.On March 13, Amy Olzak called Idaho Falls Police to report her son missing.
After a day-long search, a friend found the boy, and like any good citizen, Olzak called the station back to let officers know that the boy had been located and any search attempts should be called off.However, the officers came to the family home anyway.
By the time they were finished, they had left her 12-year-old son with broken teeth, a possible concussion, and bruising and trauma to the neck and facial area.
As Olzak explained to reporters at KIKD: I just wanted them to be aware.
They came over.
I talked to an officer for a minute and he walked over to my son.
Then he put my son s hand behind his back and like lifted him up in the air and slammed his face into the trunk of a car.
Two witnesses, the car s owner Courtney Beck, and Jessica Bowles reported seeing the whole event unfold and were both unable to give a single reason for the officer s extreme actions.
Bowles said: I walked up closer and saw a chipped tooth, blood, and two fats lips.
Olzak called for more officers, and they agreed that the boy needed medical attention.
However, the original officer refused to release the boy from handcuffs throughout the entire visit to the hospital.
He was kept in handcuffs until I took him home, Olzak said.The family sent a tort to the Idaho Falls Police last week, in order to initiate legal proceedings against the officer for using unnecessary and excessive force against a minor.
The case reminds us of the growing issue of police being called to help, only to end up killing or injuring the people they should be supporting.
One of the most notable cases being the killing of 68-year-old marine veteran Kenneth Chamberlain.
White Plains police officers in New York broke into his home and shot him dead after a simple call to go to his aid in a potential medical emergency and the list is growing.
It doesn t help the majority of good police, or the communities that they are meant to protect and serve, to continue making these mistakes with seeming impunity.
Featured image via KIDK