Republican Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) spoke with Family Research Council President Tony Perkins yesterday, on the radio show Washington Watch, where they discussed Obama s diplomatic victory in the peaceful release of Iranian prisoners.Perkins was very upset over the idea that we got Americans returned home by talking to Iran and using diplomacy.
He suggested that America has hit a dangerously slippery slope in regards to Americans being held abroad in prisons, because the fact we did something to get our people home would only invite more and more demands in future incidents.Poe agreed that it was a very sad state of affairs for the nation.
The price as he put it, that America had paid was simply too high.
What price is acceptable, he didn t say.
He only continued on to lament the fact that the days of Ronald Reagan and not negotiating with terrorists were gone from the country.Since he brought up Ronald Reagan and his policy of not negotiating with terrorists, let s take a closer look at that.During Reagan s second term, officials of his administration and very likely Reagan himself secretly and illegally sold weapons to Iran.
Iran was under an arms embargo at the time because they were considered a terrorist state.
The sale was done in order to bribe Iran to help facilitate the release of American hostages in Lebanon.The Republican revisionism and selective memory, when it comes to the legacy of Ronald Reagan is nothing short of amazing.
The Iran-Contra scandal happened when practically every establishment Republican was alive and old enough to be able to watch the news or read the newspaper.
It s like Germany insisting World War 2 never happened, and instead the entire nation was on vacation for 6 years.President Obama did everything right, getting our people home, not firing one bullet to do it, while not sending more weapons into the hands of those who can do us harm, and the first reaction from the right is to attack him for it.I m sure Republicans wish the prisoners were still being held so they had a political football, but can t they just try to repeal Obamacare again?
[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/242909973 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]featured image via YouTube screen capture