On Friday, Donald Trump s campaign manager Kellyanne Conway appeared on Real Time with Bill Maher.
While on the show, Maher thanked Conway for coming on the show.
Maher then thanked her for enabling pure evil.
Maher also mentioned that Trump has sued him before.
A lawsuit, which a judge threw out immediately because it was bogus, as Maher explains.Maher asked Conway whether Trump had encouraged her to be on the show and she confirmed that he did.
That s because, as Maher pointed out, Trump is desperately after his show s audience demographic.
While Conway may have been happy to get to speak to that audience in the beginning of the segment, she certainly isn t happy now.
That s because Maher confronts the only person has been so far able to tame Trump, as Maher puts it, and informs her that her boss is a habitual liar.
I don t know anything about David Duke.
Utter lie.
Vladimir Putin and I are best friends.
He never met him.
He got a letter from the NFL, which was proved never happened.
He gave money to the veterans when he didn t. I was against the Iraq war, when it s on tape that he was not, Maher says.This point becomes comedy gold later in the segment when Conway insists that she could never work for someone who lies for a living.
How do you answer to the fact that this man just says whatever he wants at the moment in the moment to get whatever point he wants across regardless of the facts?
Conway dodged the question and took the opportunity to posture, saying she has been with the campaign with a winning candidate.That s when Maher asks Conway: You have many children.
Are you okay with what your children are going to be asking you about supporting a man, enabling a man, who did things like make fun of the handicapped and said John McCain wasn t a war hero?
Conway says that she is fine with backing Trump after doing that, saying that McCain has endorsed Trump.Maher concluded the segment by asking Conway to tell Trump not to sue him anymore.I wish Maher had expanded on his question regarding Conway s children.
Research has shown that Trump is having a very negative impact on children.
In what has been dubbed the Trump effect schools are reporting an increase in bullying that targets those who are racial and religious minorities.
Knowing this, I would have asked Conway if she is comfortable supporting a man whose rhetoric has been shown to be inciting racial harassment towards children.You can watch the segment below in full.https://youtu.be/CX7Yt6U08c8Featured image from video screenshot