The Super Bowl had not yet begun and Trump fans were already throwing a tantrum not over something Lady Gaga did, but because of what is normally one of their favorite songs: America the Beautiful.The song was performed by three members of the cast of Hamilton, Phillipa Soo, Ren e Elise Goldsberry and Jasmine Cephas Jones, and it was just as excellent as one would expect.
But there was a problem at least, there was a problem according to the Stupid Part of America.
When the trip reached the line And crown thy good with brotherhood, two of the women added and sisterhood.
Now to most people, recognizing that women are people and Americans is not a huge deal.
The move was largely celebrated on social media as an attempt to stand up to Republicans bullying of women and repeated attempts to deprive them of healthcare and control their bodies.
But it was for that very reason that Trump fans went nuts on Twitter following the song.
WHAT THE FUCK INSTEAD OF AND SOUND THY GOOD WITH BROTHERHOOD THE LIBERAL SUPER BOWL SINGERS SAID BROTHERHOOD AND SISTERHOOD IM SO DONE, one enraged conservative who apparently doesn t even know the original lyrics writes.
Another complains that the women changed the words for their polical correctness agenda.
No, it s just brotherhood.
Not sisterhood.
Stupid cunts.
You don t remix the shit.
Just sing like you re told, one man added, apparently unaware that the did sing just as they were hired to do.#AmericatheBeautiful does not contain the word sisterhood.
Don't change the words for your polical correctness agenda.
#SuperBowl Larry Barringer (@LarryStLCards) February 5, 2017So much agenda already in this superbowl.
Really feminist, crown thy good with brotherhood .and sisterhood.
Michael Coulter (@Mike_Coulter93) February 5, 2017No, it's just brotherhood.
Not sisterhood.
Stupid cunts.
You don't remix the shit.
Just sing like you're told.
D'Lone Woof (@underscore_tim) February 5, 2017And #sisterhood?
Smh.
when will liberals stop pushing their agenda down ceveryone's throat Kevin J. Cooper (@REALKevinCooper) February 6, 2017WHAT THE FUCK INSTEAD OF "AND SOUND THY GOOD WITH BROTHERHOOD" THE LIBERAL SUPER BOWL SINGERS SAID "BROTHERHOOD AND SISTERHOOD" IM SO DONE Resolve (@ResolveDZN) February 5, 2017"For brotherhood and sisterhood".
How about you just sing the song you smug Hamilton cunts.
Terrible over singing trash with a "message".
Jack Miller (@Tarrnack) February 5, 2017"and sisterhood"Cant we do anything without bringing your social agenda into it?
ndrew ?
(@drewluminati_) February 5, 2017"And sisterhood.." Fuck that.
Changing the lyrics of America the Beautiful to fit the modernization of the country is fucked up.
Tyler Marks (@TylerCMarks) February 5, 2017Oh, okay.
America the Beautiful is no longer acceptable, needed to add sisterhood too.
Got it.
Come the fuck on.
#ItAintBrokeDontFixIt #SB51 Marie (@RIEW417) February 5, 2017Did they really just say sisterhood, fuck you that's not the lyrics cobi (@c0bi1) February 5, 2017"sisterhood"?
just sing the damn song.
lance (@aguyfromtx) February 5, 2017did that CUNT just add "and sisterhood" to america the beautiful brendan feeney (@ChuckieFeenster) February 5, 2017And sisterhood????
Fuck you, just sing the song!!!!!
El Guapo (@johnnymclean13) February 5, 2017Did they really just say "brotherhood (and sisterhood)" in America the Beautiful during the Super Bowl Smh, fuck feminists.
Ethan (@Iplayball_UHC) February 5, 2017Conservatives are terrible, and we will continue to see many, many examples of this as Donald Trump s presidency rolls on.
Watch the Super Bowl moment that sent the Right into fits of rage below:Featured image via screengrab