Something we keep hearing about Hillary Clinton is that the former Secretary of State is pals with Donald Trump.
Of course this line is perpetuated by the fact that Hillary did attend Trump s wedding in 2005.
However, let s remember something, Hillary was pretty powerful in New York at the time as a Senator and was likely asked to attend in that capacity.
But, myths being what they are, if it s repeated often enough that she s palling around with Trump, at some point it becomes a fact that they re besties.Hillary has a four word message for all those out there who insist she s BFF s with The Donald We were not friends.
She exclusively told PEOPLE for the upcoming issue: We were not friends.
We knew each other, obviously, in New York.
I knew a lot of people.
Also noting that she really doesn t give a sh*t what he says about her either: I don t really care that much about what he says about me because I do see that as, you know, politics not particularly the brand I approve of.
Who would approve of Trump s brand of politics; it s smarmy, bigoted, abusive, and flat-out wrong in so many ways.
And even though Trump said back in 2012: Hillary Clinton, I think, is a terrific woman.
I have known her for years.
I live in New York, she lives in New York, and I ve known her and her husband for years and I really like them both a lot.
It lines up with what Hillary said about their relationship perfectly, and doesn t prove, whatsoever, that they re pals.
What it shows is Trump doing what Trump does do what s in the best interest of Trump.
Which is say and do anything that will go to his favor.
For all we know he could like the Clintons a lot, or he may loathe them.
Trump says what he wants to at any time, and that could change at any given moment.At this moment in time, you ve really got to take Hillary at her word on this, because not only does her explanation make perfect sense, it lines up with Trump as well.
So what if they know each other, she knows A LOT of people.
A LOT.
So does he.
It doesn t mean that their all best friends forever.Featured image: flickr