First he said wages were too high, then he said he d work to raise the minimum wage, and now Donald Trump seems to be implying that he wants to abolish the federal minimum wage altogether.
Appearing on Meet the Press, Trump advocated allowing the states to set the standard, not the federal government: I like the idea of let the states decide.
But I think people should get more.
I think they re out there.
They re working.
It is a very low number.
When asked if the federal government show play a part in establishing a floor of where to start with in regards of the minimum wage, Trump said no, and that: I d rather have the states go out and do what they have to do.
And the states compete with each other, not only other countries, but they compete with each other.
He went on record saying I don t know how you live on $7.25 an hour.
But I would say: let the states decide.
So he admits people are suffering on poverty wages, but he wants to allow Republican-led states like Wisconsin and Kansas to decide their fates.And, in typical Trump fashion, he admitted he didn t have a plan in place about what to do with the people struggling to make ends meet, saying I haven t decided in terms of numbers.
But I think people have to get more.
Like everything else, he hasn t thought anything through, and has relied on talking points to get him attention and votes.While running an analysis of his core supporters, the Atlantic found: Full-year employment rate of men without a bachelor s degree fell from 76 percent in 1990 to 68 percent in 2013.
While real wages have grown for men and women with a four-year degree or better in the last 25 years, they ve fallen meaningfully for non-college men.
Uneducated men, a serious chunk of Trump s supporters (who also mostly live in red states), are seeing their wages decrease.
And yet their messiah doesn t want to raise their minimum wage or takes the copout argument of state s rights to oppose it.No wonder Trump loves the poorly educated.With Trump you never know who you re getting.
One day he doesn t want to raise it, then the other day he does and then the very next day he doesn t again.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images