Very few of Donald Trump s fans are more blindly loyal to him than former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, but Trump s behavior of late has really pissed some people off, including Newt Gingrich.
Trump has denigrated the family of a fallen Iraq soldier, he s kicked a mother with a crying baby out of a rally, bashed his fellow Republicans, accepted a Purple Heart from a soldier for no other reason than to show it off, and said he thinks his own daughter should just get a new job if she s being sexually harassed at work.In short, Trump is imploding, taking the GOP with him, and to Gingrich, that is unacceptable.
In fact, he used that very word when describing what s happening: The current race is which of these two is the more unacceptable, because right now neither of them is acceptable.Trump is helping [Hillary] to win by proving he is more unacceptable than she is.
He also dropped this bomb on Trump s election chances: He cannot win the presidency operating the way he is now.
[Hillary] can t be bad enough to elect him if he s determined to make this many mistakes.
Now, Gingrich isn t saying he ll endorse or vote for Hillary.
But he stopped being Trump s apologist for a moment, and is even one of the Republicans that s working on staging an intervention for Trump.
They re hoping to get him to change course before the damage to their party is irreversible.Trump has also refused to endorse either Paul Ryan or John McCain in their re-election races, proving yet again that he would rather pick petty fights over imagined slights than actually focus on running for president.
To Gingrich, he s still acting like it s primary season, and like he s still competing against 17 other candidates.Don t let Trump hear him say any of this, though!
Gingrich so pansy-assed about this that he furiously tried to backpedal on Twitter.
Maybe he thinks that Trump won t notice his comments if he pretends the media is making this up?Media has wildly misinterpreted my critique of a bad week for Trump.
Trump is vastly better than Hillary as President.
Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) August 3, 2016Please.Featured image via John Moore/Getty Images