If Donald Trump had been at Madison Square Garden during this Marc Anthony concert, he would have been booed out of the building.During the concert, the popular Latino singer took aim at the Republican billionaire by shouting at the top of his lungs about his pride at being a Latino before telling Trump to go f*ck himself, which drew a loud cheer from the thousands in attendance.
I m proud to be a Latino, Anthony told his fans.
I just want to say, we re proud of our country.
We speak a little differently.
We have our own food, we have our own way of being.
But here, no matter where you come from, we re Latinos.
And we have to take care of each other, no matter where we come from.
There s only one f*cking box to check when you come to this country, and it says Latino!'
There s some crazy movement coming from some Anthony began to say while motioning with his hands.
He then wanted to say two things.
First, F*ck Donald Trump!
Anthony then told the crowd that he wants Trump to hear it from his house.
Wake that motherf*cker up.
And then the concert resumed.Here s the video via YouTube.It s understandable why Anthony has a problem with Donald Trump.
Throughout his run for the presidency, Trump has repeatedly launched unfair attacks on Latinos.
During his official campaign announcement Trump characterized all Mexicans as rapists, and promised to build a wall along the Mexican border to keep Latino immigrants from entering the country.
Ever since, he has blamed Latinos for the crime and violence in the United States and called for a renewal of Operation Wetback, a deportation initiative under the Eisenhower Administration, a consequence of which resulted in the use of wetback as a derogatory term against Latinos and the displacement of thousands of men, women, and children.The fact is that, like Donald Trump, Marc Anthony is an American citizen and a native New Yorker.
But while Trump clings to a racist version of America, Anthony believes in the historical diversity that has made America great over countless generations.That being said, Republicans should tread carefully if they really want Latinos to vote for their candidate in November.
After all, 70 percent of Latinos voted for President Obama in 2012.
If the GOP doesn t stop being racist, they can expect even more Latinos to vote against them this time around.
Featured image from Facebook