The plans for the Republican convention have suffered an embarrassing snag, because the country s leading and most renowned performers are refusing to play at the event.
In short, the GOP is being boycotted by America s finest entertainers and performers.The GOP planned a concert on July 17 to kick off their convention, but performers are simply refusing to play ball.
Seemingly after a number of rejections, the party got desperate and tried to trick performers into playing by selling the gig as a benefit for veterans.
They managed to convince Eagles singer/songwriter Joe Walsh to play under this ruse.
But when Walsh rumbled their plans, he immediately pulled out and issued a furious statement: It was my understanding that I was playing a concert which was a non partisan event to benefit the families of American veterans on Monday, July 17 in Cleveland.
The admat I approved said this specifically.
Today it was announced that this event is, in fact, a launch for the Republican National Convention.
In addition, my name is to be used to raise sponsorship dollars for convention-related purposes.
Therefore, I must humbly withdraw my participation in this event with apologies to any fans or veterans and their families that I might disappoint.I am very concerned about the rampant vitriol, fear-mongering and bullying coming from the current Republican campaigns.
It is both isolationist and spiteful.
I cannot in good conscience endorse the Republican party in any way.
I will look at doing a veteran related benefit concert later this year.
And Joe Walsh wasn t alone.
Powerpop legends Cheap Trick told the Guardian they were also offered a staggering amount of cash by the GOP to play the convention, but also turned it down as a matter of principle.
They explained: The Republican National Committee called our office and offered us $100,000 to play at their convention in Cleveland [this summer].
We turned it down.
Then we had second thoughts.
Maybe we should have accepted it but we would all have got swastika guitars made.
At this rate the GOP convention will be rocking it out to Ted Nugent, followed by a Chuck Norris marital arts display.
The party is now so toxic, even formerly open conservative performers won t taint themselves by association.Featured image via Flickr Creative Commons