Donald Trump is hemorrhaging Republican supporters faster than his casinos hemorrhage money.
He s losing in almost all polls, including in many swing and Republican states, but to Trump, that means stay the course.Republicans in the public eye are making a very public appeal to Americans, asking everyone to support Hillary Clinton, mostly for one major reason: Trump doesn t have the temperament for the presidency.Americans agree.
After a disastrous two weeks following the Republican National Convention, where Trump attacked a Gold Star Family, took a Purple Heart from its recipient and lied about ransom money being handed to Iran, his poll numbers are tanking.
He s now behind by double digits.
Did I mention he also ejected a baby from a rally?It s even gotten to the point where many serious people, including President Obama, are questioning Trump s mental fitness.
That s not something political opponents typically speculate about, but Trump is clearly an exception.Yes, Trump is having a really, really bad time, but to him, that means nothing.
After all, he s gotten this far being a xenophobic asshole.
Why let a sinking ship tempt him to plug the holes in his campaign?
Trump, naturally, disagrees with his critics: I think that my temperament has gotten me here, Trump said during a phone interview on Fox Business s Mornings with Maria.
We beat a lot of people in the primaries and now we have one person left, and we re actually doing pretty well there, but we ll see how it all comes out, the Republican presidential nominee said.
I certainly don t think it s appropriate to start changing all of a sudden when you ve been winning, Trump said.
I think it s going to work out well.
Source: The HillHere s the video:The only real pivot coming from the Trump campaign is that he s trying to sound like Bernie Sanders.
He accuses all the Republicans turning against him of being insiders, whose opinions shouldn t matter to Trump s angry anti-establishment voters.Trump s refusal to acknowledge that he needs to win a broader support only adds fuel to the fire of the idea that he s unprepared for the presidency.
He won 14 million votes during the primaries, which is a lot for primaries, but it s not even a drop in the bucket for the general election, where more than 10 times that many people will likely vote.
If Trump has a chance in hell of winning, he has to tone down his rhetoric, not that we re cheering for that.Featured image via Joe Readle at Getty Images.