This one s going to hurt, conservatives, so be prepared for it.
You know how you have been triumphantly celebrating reports on Gateway Pundit (the same site that created a fake story about Michael Brown fracturing Officer Darren Wilson s eye socket) and other right-wing propaganda farms that the entire story about Trump s campaign colluding with Russia directly and Trump hiring a couple of nice ladies to pee on his bed was manufactured by trolls on 4Chan?
Sorry, guys, no such luck.Lying sh*tbag and dumbest man on the internet (Google it) Jim Hoft writes:According to 4Chan these documents were created by a 4Chan user and sent to anti-Trumper Rick Wilson knowing he would act on this tip:4Chan discussed this tonight:** Political hacks emailed documents to #NeverTrump jackass Rick Wilson about Trump making people piss on a bed.
** Rick Wilson thought it was real and gave it to leftists at the CIA ** The CIA of the USA put this in their official classified intelligence report on Russian involvement in the US election ** Donald Trump and Obama were both given private sessions with the CIA to discuss this.
** The CIA concluded that the Russians plan to blackmail Trump with this story we made upThe 4Chan users then link to this:So they took what I told Rick Wilson and added a Russian spy angle to it.They still believe it.
Guys, they re truly fucking desperate there s no remaining Trump scandal that s credible.Then there s this If these journalists were real journalists and not fake journalists then they would have found that the original documents did not conform to CIA or UK intelligence requirements.
It looks like the liberal mainstream media got punked again, Hoft celebrates in his latest drivel.
If this is how easy it is to fool the liberal media then I m going to have my niece start sending them her Harry Potter fan fictions as long as she writes Confidential / Sensitive Source at the top.
The right-wing journalist s fans chimed in, almost as ecstatic as Donald Trump watching some nice ladies pee upon hearing the news that the liberal media had fake newsed the Benghazi or whatever their current lingo is.
But not so fast, conservatives!If the header is an issue, let s keep in mind that it has been made clear from the beginning that this report was not issued by MI6.
It was issued by someone who is former MI6 and probably has his own style of header.
That entire argument is dead from the get-go.
But the post is from November 1, you might say.
Yes, this is true that the post predates the full release of the information, but Mother Jones has been reporting on this for longer than that.
In fact, it seems that the post in question was meant to discredit that much lighter report and has simply been repurposed as a matter of convenience.
Mother Jones previously did not release the full details including the golden showers bit because it had not been confirmed, but has since done so as the information has been released elsewhere.
But how could they know the source, then, if he was confidential, you ask as your eyes dart rapidly back and forth searching for something anything to salvage your ridiculous claim that internet trolls fooled multiple intelligence agencies.
Here s the thing the post didn t identify the source.
The post identified who the poster thought was the source, but Wilson has been very clear he is not the source.You're wrong if you believe1.
What we had came from /pol.2.
That I was Buzzfeed's source.Try again, boys.
Rick Wilson (@TheRickWilson) January 11, 2017 I ll settle it this way; if arguendo I had been their source, I hereby release the authors of the story, its editors, and BuzzFeed generally from any off-the-record/background protections of anonymity I would have asked for, Wilson wrote in a long post regarding the allegations.
No one has updated the story to name him as the source, so that s pretty well settled.
Naturally, he included a stab at conservatives for calling this fake news while believing actual fake news:The real shame of this entire situation is that we re wasting valuable time Trump could be using to uncover the real secrets of John Podesta and Hillary Clinton s PizzaGate global child kidnapping and cannibalism ring.
You know, the important stuff.
But, but, but, you stammer in desperation?
Fine.
We ll just ask you to consider that the intelligence community does know the identity of the source, has worked with him in the past, and considers him to be credible.Will this stop you, conservatives, from sharing your ridiculous claims that this is FAKE NEWS and a POLITICAL WITCH HUNT as Donald Trump put it?
Of course not but you re going to look even more stupid when you do.Featured image via Getty Images/Alex Wong