The new movie about the attack on the U.S. facility in Benghazi, Libya, is stirring up conservatives and their now legendary hatred of Hillary Clinton.Gawker writer Christopher Hooks went to the premiere of Michael Bay s 13 Hours at the Dallas Cowboys stadium in Arlington, Texas.
After interviewing some of the attendees, he came back with a report on the intense Clinton hate that the movie had activated.
It wasn t pretty.Certainly, the people who d come to the stadium because they didn t like Clinton felt fired up after seeing it.
She s a piece of shit, said one man who declined to give his name and didn t make eye contact.
But I already knew she s a piece of shit.
I hope it defeats Hillary, said another, Don Lochran.
They covered the whole thing up.
It was Lochran who then suggested bombing them all.Others were less sanguine.
Oh yeah.
I d shoot Hillary Clinton in the fuckin head.
I don t like the bitch at all, said Len Toomey, who identified himself as a veteran of Desert Storm and Somalia.
He d seen the movie with some VFW friends.
Choke her.
She should be in the pisser and I should be pissin on her every night.
Whether you back Clinton or not, the abject misogyny and hate that base conservatives have for her is grotesque to behold.
About the only thing rivaling it in intensity is their hatred for President Obama.To many factions of the right and those are often the same people yelling the loudest for Donald Trump s white power presidential campaign the former Secretary of State and First Lady is the absolute devil incarnate.In this go-around they erroneously believe she and the President left men to die in Benghazi, when in fact real life is NOT like an action movie and forces were constrained by the reality of time and space in how they could respond.
Even so, they did eventually get on the scene, something conservatives leave out of their Benghazi storytelling.13 Hours is unlikely to change anyone s minds pro or con with Clinton, but it at least is serving a purpose in once again putting on display just how hateful the right can be without even trying that hard.Featured image via Paramount Pictures