Republicans are trying so hard not to expose themselves as the racists they truly are.
Now that their nominee for President of the United States is a proud and open bigot, other members of the GOP are concealing their own prejudices or at least some are.Then you have some who just don t care, and are perfectly fine with exposing themselves as ignorant, bigoted whack jobs.Take former Republican Representative Joe Walsh.
A one term member of Congress turned radio host, Walsh made a name for himself by being an outspoken critic of the Obama Administration, and went from being a self-described moderate to a full fledged Tea Partier.
Now, we all know how heartless he was when he called on the Obama Admin.
to secure the boarder with moats and alligators.
But now he s exposed himself as truly one of the most backwards honking racists in the American political atmosphere.Yesterday, Walsh thought it would be a good idea to refer to the election of Barack Obama as the most racist event in American history:The single greatest act of racism in American history was the election of Barack Obama.People voted for him simply because he was black.
Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) June 26, 2016Yes, he actually said that.
In his eyes, the election of the United States first African-American president was more racist than the following: the Trail of Tears, slavery, Japanese internment, or Jim Crow.
These are just some (but certainly not all) of the dark, racist brutalities committed in American history, and a middle-aged, white Republican man thinks Obama being elected by the will of the people is the most racist thing to happen.It s as if Republicans are trying to officially be the party of racism and sheer stupidity.And while Republicans go on and on about how Democrats don t respect the will of the people, they decide their best and brightest ought to insult the will of the American electorate, who decided to choose President Obama (twice), not because of his skin color, but because his ideas were better than McCain and Romney s.Republicans still have not managed to understand their own autopsy report from 2012, when minority voters delivered one hell of a wake up call to their hopes of taking back the White House.
Instead of heeding the warning, they have decided to double down on the hopes that their precious white voters would ride in and save the day.
It didn t work in 2012, it certainly won t work in 2016.
And considering President Obama s approval rating is at a five year high of 56 percent, insulting his election as racist and insulting the intelligence of his voters certainly won t help make the GOP s case.This is a guy who accused Tammy Duckworth (who beat him in his reelection bid) of politicizing her war record and injuries sustained in combat.
This is the guy who, after his term ended, attempted to forego paying child support because he was unemployed.
This is the guy who thinks two national elections were decided simply because of a man s skin color.This is the face of the GOP.Featured image via Gage Skidmore