We re paying so much attention to Donald Trump, Comedian Margaret Cho told Addicting Info in a phone interview.
Ms. Cho has openly endorsed Bernie Sanders, but has applauded Hillary Clinton s political efforts as well.
What he has done to politics is a travesty.
It s a real embarrassment to the nature of politics in America.
This was a dignified profession.
There is a circus element to him.
It s almost like we re looking at Nero.
Nero is infamously known as the most tyrannical and insane emperor s Rome ever had.
After taking the throne at the age of 17, Nero had his mother killed, was known for overt self-indulging and had anyone who dissented against him killed.
For leisure, Nero would wander the streets of Rome and murder people at random.
After a fire burned most of Rome to the ground, Nero pointed the finger at Christians, which began a reign of persecuting and torturing anyone associated with the religion, similar to the rhetoric from Donald Trump against Muslims.
A few years later, Rome finally rebelled against Nero s tyrannical rule, and Nero committed suicide, leaving no heir to the throne and a free for all among Rome s military generals to seize power.The rise of Donald Trump has invoked similar fears that such a tyrannical ruler could become President of the United States.
Although, it is incredibly unlikely Donald Trump would ever reach the extent Nero did, with the support of a GOP majority in Congress, Donald Trump would likely reverse decades of progressive reforms Democrats have worked endlessly to push into legislation.
The Supreme Court could possibly receive a judge incredibly unfit to be serving in such a capacity.
Groups such as those who identify with the Muslim religion would be in even greater danger of their rights being taken away as Donald Trump has made proposals similar to those enacted by Adolf Hitler preceding the Holocaust during World War II.
The comparisons to Hitler are not that far off, added Ms. Cho.
It s a very dangerous time.
Senator Ted Cruz doesn t offer any better of an option for Republicans, who may face a brokered convention as many leaders in the party don t want Donald Trump or Ted Cruz as their nominee either.Featured image via Flickr