On Thursday night, CNN s Guns In America town hall meeting on gun violence attracted the attendance of several gun legislation opponents, but strangely enough the most outspoken pro-gun group wasn t there to counter President Barack Obama on his executive action.
Host Anderson Cooper said that the National Rifle Association (NRA) had definitely been invited, but chose not to attend.
Proving that it was all talk and no action, the gun advocacy group had declined the opportunity to participate in the live Q&A session with the President, and basically forfeited their right to complain about the issues going forward.
NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam said the reason the association declined was because the meeting was just a public relations spectacle orchestrated by the White House.
However, that didn t stop the NRA from whining and giving their opinion during the town hall meeting anyway.
As the organization watched Obama talk about tightening background checks and closing loopholes for gun sales, the NRA decided to live-tweet the event a choice it would immediately regret.NRA TwitterNRA TwitterNRA TwitterAs Guns In America went on, the NRA made up for its lack of physical presence by filling its Twitter feed with criticisms of Obama and shared several equally ridiculous posts from gun rights advocates.
Thankfully, not everyone on Twitter is as thick-headed and came to Obama s rescue to set the NRA straight:TwitterTwitterSome even chose to remind the association to shut the f*ck up since it couldn t be bothered to confront Obama in person.TwitterObama also took some time out of the town hall to blast the NRA for backing out of the discussion and expressed his disappointment in an organization that has been so vocal against gun legislation.
He said: Part of the reason I welcomed this opportunity by CNN to have a good discussion debate about it is because our position is consistently mischaracterized.
There s a reason why the NRA is not here.
They re just down the street.
And, since this is the main reason they exist, you d think they d be prepared to have a debate with the president.I m happy to meet with them.
I m happy to talk to them, but, the conversation has to be based on facts and truth, and what we re actually proposing, not some you know, imaginary fiction in which Obama s trying to take away your guns.
Featured image courtesy of Joe Crimmings via Flickr