During a recent interview on CNN with Donald Trump, the real estate mogul denied knowing anything about former KKK Grand Wizard David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan.
He was even asked by Jake Tapper if he would disavow any endorsements by white supremacists and white supremacy groups.
Trump responded: I don t know anything about David Duke.
I don t know anything about what you are even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists.
So, I don t know.
I mean, did he endorse me or what s going on?
Because I know nothing about David Duke, I know nothing about white supremacists.
And so, you are asking me a question that I m supposed to be talking about people that I know nothing about.
When pressed further, Trump had the audacity to say, regarding the KKK: Well, I have to look at the group.
I mean, I don t know what group you re talking about.
You wouldn t want me to condemn a group that I know nothing about.
I d have to look.
If you would send me a list of the groups, I will do research on them, and certainly I would disavow if I thought that there was something wrong.
You can t acknowledge off the top of your head that what the KKK stands for is horrifying?Well, the White House has now offered their response to Donald Trump s pathetic answers surrounding David Duke and the KKK.
Press Secretary Josh Earnest, during a press conference on Monday, stated: I think my observation is simply that, you know Mr. Trump says that there s more that he needs to learn about Mr. Duke before he can render an opinion.
But I think we now know all we need to know about Mr. Trump to render our personal opinion of his candidacy.
Earnest, in so many words, just pretty much insinuated that most sane-minded people should be able to surmise that Donald Trump not only embraces his racist base of support, but is likely racist himself.
Who the hell doesn t know what the KKK is and who David Duke is?
Trump s playing dumb, because he knows most of his base is in full support of open racism.
It s how Trump has run his campaign from the start.And yes, Earnest is correct, we no know all we need to know about Donald Trump to render our own personal opinions.
If you re a Trump supporter at this point, you re likely racist.
That s just a fact.
If you re not, WTF are you doing?
He s not going to make America great again, he s going to make America hate again.Here s the video from the press conference:WATCH: @PressSec responds to Trump s David Duke comments: We now know all we need to know about Mr. Trump https://t.co/WPgd5fYrem ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) February 29, 2016Featured image: screengrab