Watching people line up behind Donald Trump is concerning in and of itself, but we may finally have an explanation as to why certain people have been so quick to endorse the Republican presidential frontrunner after dropping out of the race themselves.First, it was New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, who had been slamming Trump his whole campaign, but then turned around to endorse him.
And now, Dr. Ben Carson has backed the real estate mogul.
However, Carson may have just revealed why he actually threw his support behind Trump and the reason may actually be illegal.While being interviewed on Newsmax, Carson seemed to imply that he was offered an advisory position in Trump s potential administration in return for an endorsement.
One big problem with that, though.
Offering a role in exchange for an endorsement is against federal law.Carson said: I didn t see a path for Kasich, who I like, or for Rubio, who I like.
As far as Cruz is concerned, I don t think that he s gonna be able to draw independents and Democrats unless he has some kind of miraculous change Is there another scenario that I would have preferred?
Yes.
But that scenario isn t available.
However, expanding on what cemented his decision, Carson said: I will be doing things as well Certainly in an advisory capacity [in Trump s administration] We haven t handled out all the details but it is very important that we work together in this country Again, I m not going to reveal any details about it right now because all of this is still very liquid.
Which leads any person with common sense to realize Trump clearly offered Carson a role in exchange for his support.
However, according to the federal legal code: Whoever, being a candidate, directly or indirectly promises or pledges the appointment, or the use of his influence or support for the appointment of any person to any public or private position or employment, for the purpose of procuring support in his candidacy shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if the violation was willful, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than two years, or both.
Carson very may well have led to the chance of federal charges being filed against Trump.
Will that happen?
Likely not.
Should it?
Most definitely.
Trump is gaming the system and seems to be promising favors.
It s scandalous at best, and most definitely illegal.Here s the video via Think Progress:Featured image via YouTube