Apparently being the wife of a former Democrat President and serial pervert, and (more importantly) having a vagina, allows people to overlook her reprehensible behavior During Wednesday night s democratic debate, Hillary Clinton said the mother of a Benghazi victim lied.Patricia Smith, the mother of Sean Smith, one of the four Americans who were killed by terrorists in an attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi during Clinton s tenure, said in a CNN interview last October that Clinton lied to her about the circumstances surrounding her son s death.Instead of stating that her son s death had been caused by an act of terrorism, Clinton blamed an inflammatory video that had been circulating online in the weeks leading up to the attack a narrative she knew at the time to be false.When asked about this on Wednesday, Clinton pushed back at Smith s claim, saying the mother of the Benghazi victim was absolutely wrong.
I can t imagine the grief she has about losing her son, Clinton said.
But she s wrong.
She s absolutely wrong!
Via:The FederalistOf course, Hillary was LYING when she called Sean Smith s mother a liar.
There is clear evidence of her lie that was found in her unsecured emails.
Her media allies at CNN chose to give her a pass on the truth in favor of allowing a greiving mother of an American hero to be called a liar on national tv.
Watch the video of Hillary s testimony in front of the House Select Committee on Benghazi: Hillary Clinton sent an email to her daughter, Chelsea, on Sept. 11, 2012 in which she asserted that an al-Qaida-like group was responsible for the terrorist attacks in Benghazi, it was revealed on Thursday during the former secretary of state s testimony to the House Select Committee on Benghazi.The email, which was revealed by Ohio Rep. Jim Jordan, indicates that Clinton knew early on that the attacks which left four Americans dead was carried out by terrorists.
But as Jordan pointed out, Clinton and others in the Obama administration had already begun crafting the narrative that the attack was spontaneous and that the attackers were motivated by a YouTube video many Muslims found offensive.