Donald Trump once bragged that he had the best words but researchers found that his speeches were at an average of about a 7th-grade reading level.
Trump generally scored the lowest of all of his rivals.
But, Trump being Trump, he s doing it again and bragging about his beautiful flowing sentences.
This week, Trump canceled a much-anticipated press conference on his private business dealings, saying he was too busy nominating Cabinet members, but he was seen meeting with Kanye West.
Trump promised to address his conflicts of interest but we suppose meeting with a rapper is more of a priority for the president-elect.
Trump has not held a press conference since July 27th even though he blasted Hillary Clinton for not meeting with the press during the campaign.Vox reports that Trump now has a different excuse for not meeting with the press for interviews:The press mangles his beautiful sentences, and he has had enough of it, Trump told a crowd in West Allis, Wisconsin, at one of his Victory Tour rallies.Trump literally said that.
For the last month I decided not to do interviews, because they give interviews and they chop up your sentences and cut them short, he said.
You will have this beautiful flowing sentence where the back of the sentence reverts to the front and they cut the back of the sentence off, and I say I never said that.
So, I said, you know what, I am not going to deal with them.
They are very dishonest people, I said.
Vox had linguists weigh in on Trump s speeches.
His speeches are full of non sequiturs, says Kristin Kobes Du Mez, a Calvin College historian who has done a comparative study of Trump and Clinton s speaking styles.
It s a completely different style from nearly any other politician you normally see on a big stage.What s even more peculiar about his remark is that after each incendiary statement he made during his campaign, it was as if his defenders felt the need to step in to say what he really meant.
In March, the New York Post said that Trump speaks at a fourth-grade level and suggested he might do that intentionally.
We wonder what speaking level Trump is in Russian.Photo by Scott Olson via Getty.