Last week, a ton of U.S. government employees took to Twitter to tell Donald Trump to go fuck himself in their own ways.
There are now well over a hundred of these rogue accounts, and one of them comes from inside the White House itself.
Rogue POTUS Staff, under the handle @RoguePOTUSStaff, has been tweeting out things about Trump that give us an inside look at Trump and his administration.Their account has over half a million followers already, showing the popularity of what they have to say.
Many of their tweets are news stories and support for other rogue accounts, because all these rogue employees need to support each other.
But Rogue POTUS Staff also puts forth things that will probably never make it into mainstream media reports, such as what Trump said just five days after he was inaugurated:Pres.
Trump is already making waves at the office.
Wants to be the President who will be remembered as a King.
His words, not ours.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 26, 2017POTUS loved Kellyanne s alternative facts line.
Said she was dumb for it, but loved the idea anyway because people would talk about it.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 26, 2017And they have no problem telling all of Twitter that the Liar-in-Chief is, in fact, a liar that s intimidating everyone:Everyone in the room knew POTUS was lying about 5 million illegals voting, but nobody dared to point it out.
What have we done?
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 26, 2017Rogue POTUS Staff keeps careful tabs on the growing discord Trump is creating at the White House, but also keeps careful tabs on what Trump does behind the scenes.
It s both entertaining and frightening they ve proven to be better than the press just how much of a child Trump really is.POTUS asking around about people s Photoshop skills.
Says inauguration photos need to be touched up.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 27, 2017POTUS not pleased with Priebus using @MeetThePress appearance to promise green card change that POTUS rejected.
Feels his hand was pushed.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 30, 2017Under early morning advice from Bannon POTUS to push Spicer to accuse #MuslimBan protests of compromising national security.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 30, 2017Suspicion that Bannon urging POTUS to egg on protests, then call in National Guard to disperse, as demonstration of power.
#resistpeacefully Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 29, 2017Priebus calling @MeetThePress interview disaster.
POTUS appears uncooperative on fixing EO problems, more worried about press coverage.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 29, 2017POTUS fuming after judge order last night.
Suggested having agents to do it anyway & ignore order.
Preibus said to be at wits end.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 29, 2017POTUS sowing real discord by being more interested in NYT than the work of being POTUS.
Bannon encouraging him to irritate #UnholyTrinity .
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 29, 2017Bannon jokes that he has mixed feelings about SCOTUS pick.
Says that a white man shouldn t have to serve coffee to a Hispanic woman.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 31, 2017Priebus worried about public anger if they learn POTUS wasted tax $$ to bring in SCOTUS loser for Apprentice style nom.
announcement.
#oops Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 31, 2017They re making Trump look like the huge, egotistical buffoon he is:Overheard through locked door: Don t they know I m the f President!?
POTUS displeased at resistance.
#resist Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 27, 2017POTUS will NOT shut up about how he s going to overshadow Pelosi s town hall.
Wants press conference to run long to obscure coverage.
#petty Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) February 1, 2017POTUS asks why he should give a damn about muzzie Canucks?
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 30, 2017They also point out how Trump patted himself on the back for his SCOTUS nomination:POTUS appearing very proud of himself today.
Says country should be thanking him for the best SCOTUS nomination in history.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) February 1, 2017Best SCOTUS pick in history using the most transparent appointment process in history by way of the man with the biggest inaugural audience in history.
Right.Trump apparently wasn t too totally keen on Gorsuch, though:#UnholyTrinity back Gorsuch for SCOTUS.
Had POTUS convinced.
But POTUS swaying back to Hardiman for spite, despite look of more nepotism.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 30, 2017Bannon suggested reaching out to Gorsuch and Hardiman to gauge willingness to back #MuslimBan EO in court.
Pence dissuades, but barely.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 30, 2017POTUS getting eye rolls at flip-floppity attitude toward SCOTUS pick.
After settling from crazy weekend, seems back on the Gorsuch train.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 31, 2017These people will never reveal who they are, though, and for good reason.
They re putting their jobs and possibly their freedom on the line to keep the world informed of goings-on inside the White House.
It s the same with all the rogue and alt government accounts it s even highly unlikely that each person or group behind each account knows who s behind any of the other accounts.Feel free to unfollow.
We have families.
This acct could be violation of Hatch Act.
What you act could be prosecuted as espionage.
#inhiding https://t.co/XGKiFR9Gr1 Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 27, 2017This starting to get scary.
Four of these messages in the inbox today.
Not indications yet that POTUS is aware of this acct, but someone is.
pic.twitter.com/mfihbghTVr Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 27, 2017Bannon apparently hunting for heretics.
Confirmed, is aware of this acct.
Actively trying to identify us.
#UnholyTrinity may be losing grip.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 28, 2017Because of this, it s impossible to know what s real and what s not.
Some suspect this is a fake account, others suspect that the suspicious ones are the fake accounts.
Rogue POTUS Staff has been around since Jan. 25, though, which is on the early side of when this whole movement got started.
Their pinned tweet says everything:When well intended patriots disagree, that s democracy.
When POTUS says it s not fact until he approves it, that s tyranny.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) January 26, 2017Featured image by Pete Marovich via Getty Images/screen captures