Donald Trump s latest executive orders are being protested against and shredded for their xenophobic, hateful nature and the Republicans who didn t have the backbone to stand up to him are getting equally pummeled.Among the biggest moronic minion who didn t have the balls to stand up to tyrant Trump is House Speaker Paul Ryan, who got absolutely decimated on Wikipedia recently.
In reference to his complete lack of spine, a Wikipedia page listed him under invertebrates, joining the ranks of creatures like worms.
Truly, there has never been a better way to describe Ryan and similar GOPers until now.This edit to the invertebrate Wikipedia page was first spotted by BuzzFeed s Alp Ozcelik, and it is SO perfect:According to the Wikipedia page, invertebrates are characterized like this: The trait that is common to all invertebrates is the absence of a vertebral column (backbone): this creates a distinction between invertebrates and vertebrates.
The distinction is one of convenience only; it is not based on any clear biologically homologous trait, any more than the common trait of having wings functionally unites insects, bats, and birds, or than not having wings unites tortoises, snails and sponges.
Being animals, invertebrates are heterotrophs, and require sustenance in the form of the consumption of other organisms.
With a few exceptions, such as the Porifera, invertebrates generally have bodies composed of differentiated tissues.
There is also typically a digestive chamber with one or two openings to the exterior.
We couldn t have said it better ourselves.
Ryan s behavior when it comes to Trump has been extremely disappointing, and he has become more of a pushover since Trump officially became POTUS.
Proving that he doesn t have the guts or spine to stand by his previous statements, Ryan quietly allowed Trump to go ahead with his Muslim ban this week, despite the fact that he felt VERY differently in July:To compare, this is what Ryan said after Trump signed his disastrous executive order this week: Our number one responsibility is to protect the homeland.
We are a compassionate nation, and I support the refugee resettlement program, but it s time to reevaluate and strengthen the visa vetting process.
This is why we passed bipartisan legislation in the wake of the Paris attacks to pause the intake of refugees.
President Trump is right to make sure we are doing everything possible to know exactly who is entering our country.
It is absolutely disgusting to have people like this in power.
Fortunately, the internet came to our rescue to provide some much needed humor during a time when doom seems eminent.
At least someone still dares to tell the truth even if they re just anonymously editing a Wikipedia page.
We truly hope they will do it again!Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images