Pathetic Predictably impotent.
We are not united we are divided.
We do not stand strong.
We sit like ducks.
Waiting to be shot.
Helpless, pathetic, slow.Mohamed took a truck and drove it into men, women and children celebrating Bastille day in Nice.
He killed 84.And who yet knows of the horrors still to spew from hospital wards lives fractured, crumpled, crushed.One minute they were jubilant, locals and tourists alike celebrating Bastille day together.
The next, lying splintered on the floor.And the most sickening thing of all worse than spilt blood, fractured bodies, children with legs contorted out of human control, the reek of death, is our horribly sanitized response to it all.Pathetic.
Predictably impotent.Evil mowed us down in a monster truck.
And we tweeted like lethargic birds between Egyptian cotton sheets.Celebrities rushed to social media with their message not again , designers comforted with a patriotic graphic, tea candles were lit and instagrammed.
There will be a vigil in a public square.
Again.
A hashtag is born #PrayForNice, exploding into a thousand others as people want to #PrayFor France or #PrayForHumanity, failing to acknowledge the horrible truth that this attack was done in some spurious god s name.
You want to pray for Nice?You think religion will help solve this?
Religion and its bonkers side-shoots are the problem.That s true if you re talking about the religion of hate Katie, but Christians, Jews and Hindu s don t subscribe to killing innocent people to gain entry to heaven.
-100 Percent FED UP!Politicians tell us to stand united.
The Prime Minister of France has said he will not allow the country to be destabilised.
President Hollande reminds us terrorism will not be tolerated.Well big news: France IS destabilised in a perpetual state of Emergency.
We do not stand united.
We are divided, we are ripped apart.
And yet we tolerate it every time.We do not stand strong.
We sit like ducks.
Waiting to be shot.
Helpless, pathetic, slow.French Pres.
Hollande hours before #NiceAttack: "What threatens us is the rise of populism."
https://t.co/X9HR4Jw2fE pic.twitter.com/kyBedUfKlW Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) July 15, 2016We are reminded to be more tolerant.
Liberal lefties takes to the airways lecturing at us, not to react.
To remind us of the good and humanity in most people.Muslim mayors stand and tell us we will be there, shoulder-to-shoulder with France, reminding us Mohamed has nothing to do with ordinary Muslims or Islam.As with every other time, someone from the BBC informs us many of the victims will have been Muslim, as if that helps.
Trying to give credence to the notion Islam can t be blamed because Muslims died too.
And again, we hear a familiar refrain.
The suspect was known to the police he had a fiche S on his file marking his links to terror and ISIS.He was a French national from Tunisia.
(Why are they always French-Tunisians, never Tunisian/French?
What do you think he called himself?
)Via: Daily Mail