To say that David Brooks is not impressed with Donald Trump and the GOP is an understatement.
Using his column at the New York Times, Brooks has been flaming the Republican establishment to a crisp over allowing the rise of Donald Trump.
Of course, Brooks was part of that establishment that gave a pass to the Tea Party and all of their hate and rage that paved the way so it s hard to feel bad for him now.Still, it s fun to watch conservatives eat their own and Brooks did not mince words on this week s Meet The Press:Turning back to Trump, Brooks said he ll be the eventual nominee and predicted he will become infamous for a crushing defeat in the November general election.
I think it s likely to be Trump.
I think he s the walking dead, he explained before adding the final insult.
I think he ll get the nomination and he will just go down to a crushing defeat.
And will be known for a hundred years from now, people will say, Who s the biggest loser in American politics?
And it won t be McGovern, it won t be Dukakis, the word Trump.
And I hope when he s down there in Hades he s aware of all that.
Well, damn!
Looks like Brooks was finally right about something!
Too little, too late, though.
A very large part of the reason Trump is so popular is that the useful idiots of the GOP base have finally tumbled to the fact that the Republican Party only exists to cater to the wealthy, not to their prejudices and bigotry.
As long as the rich don t care about banning abortion or opposing homosexuality, they re happy to pay Republicans to lie to their base about how wonderful deregulation is.But once the rich see no profit in ignoring the right s anti-LGBT laws, they order their puppets to reverse course and Republicans obey.
It s hard to tell yourself that your elected leaders care about you when they re so obvious about who they REALLY serve.
That s what made it so easy for Trump to swoop in and steal the base.Too bad that s ALL he s stealing, though.
Trump does not appeal to moderate conservatives or Independents at all.
His appeal is limited to angry bigots and that s who he plays to.
In a general election, there s going to be a mass defection from the right to vote for ANYONE running against Trump and that s going to end in a devastating landslide that will takes years for Republicans to recover from.What s not to love?Featured image via AI archives