Mass Live Ayyadurai, who announced his Republican U.S. Senate bid in February, said that while he may not be the GOP establishment s candidate, his track record of overcoming barriers and fighting big institutions makes him the best person to take on the high-powered incumbent.
I know that Warren in spite of (what) people think she is is extremely weak, he said in an interview.
She s a formidable enemy, but weak in the sense that where she s fundamentally coming from, her basis of where she s coming from, has massive weakness and I know how to expose that weakness.
Ayyadurai, 53, moved to the U.S. from India as a child.
He compared the Democratic senator and former Harvard University professor to those at the top of India s caste system a social structure in which he said his family held a low position.
If you look at what we have today, we have a neo-caste system and at the top of that heap is people like Warren, he said.
They are the academics, career politicians and lawyer/lobbyists.
And that clan is extremely spineless, they never expect to be challenged.
And I ve challenged them.
Last month, Ayyadurai made news when he sent Democrat Senator Elizabeth Warren a DNA kit for her birthday (which she rejected) after Warren was caught lying about being a Native American on a application for a teaching position at Harvard University, allegedly hoping that her fake minority status would place her ahead of other applicants for the job.Senator Elizabeth Warren is not only a liar, she s also not very bright.
Warren sent out an email today that was clearly designed to appeal to women.
In the email, Warren names the very unpopular Hillary Clinton, not only once, but twice.
Warren starts out the email by mentioning Hillary s name in the first sentence:Hillary Clinton said that it takes a village, and she was right.
None of us can raise a family, build a business, heal a community, or lift a country totally alone.
Warren used Hillary s name again near the end of her email:Every minute counts to get a campaign off the ground.
It mattered the most when the DSCC helped launch my Senate campaign, and when they were there for Hillary when she launched her Senate career 17 years ago.Apparently, Warren missed the dreadful polls showing how the wildly unpopular Hillary Clinton s like ability continues to plummet, even after the race.If Warren stays the course and continues to align herself with Crooked Hillary, the very successful entrepreneur and President Trump supporter Shiva Ayyadurai will no doubt be able to use her embarrassingly bad decision to his advantage.Mass Live- If elected, Ayyadurai said he hopes to bring a sense of innovation to the Senate when it comes to addressing hot-button issues, as well as to look at problems from an engineering and science perspective.Casting himself as a Lincoln Republican, the entrepreneur said his campaign platform will largely focus on three areas: immigration, education and innovation.As an immigrant, Ayyadurai said he believes it is important that the U.S. secure its borders, root out so-called sanctuary cities and ensure people enter the country legally.He added that he also supports ensuring parents and students have choices when it comes to public education, and argued that more must be done to address what he called pay-to-play academic science research.Ayyadurai, who holds four degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is the founder and chairman of CytoSolve, a startup that has developed a computational platform for scalable integration of molecular pathway models used in drug development.He is one of three Republicans who have filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission to run for the Massachusetts Senate seat in 2018.To donate to Shiva Ayyadurai s senate campaign, click HERE.Here is Warren s email:Friend Hillary Clinton said that it takes a village, and she was right.
None of us can raise a family, build a business, heal a community, or lift a country totally alone.
I ve seen what a village, a community, and a movement can do, one action at a time.
And I ve seen how women can help women especially when we run for office.I sure remember what it was like running for the Senate as a first-time candidate in 2011.
I had to learn everything it took to raise money, build a grassroots organizing operation, and stand up to a Republican incumbent with $10 million in the bank and I had to do it fast.And here s what I know: I absolutely, positively couldn t have done it on my own.So when the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee told me they wanted a strong launch of the Women s Senate Network for the 2018 cycle, to help women run and make sure more voices like mine and Hillary s are in the Senate, I immediately told them:I m all in.Today, I m asking you to join me in becoming a 2018 founding member of the DSCC Women s Senate Network.
Because you were there for Hillary, I m hoping you ll add your name to help us build a community to support women who run for office.Now let me be blunt: 2018 is going to be a hard year for Democrats.
We ve got 10 women who are up for reelection to the Senate, including me more than ever before in history.
And many are in some really tough races.That s why the DSCC s Women s Senate Network is ramping up its 2018 efforts early to elect and protect smart, tough, and experienced candidates to fight for what s right senators who understand that being a woman is not a pre-existing condition, that we deserve equal pay for equal work, and that we sure as heck need Planned Parenthood and affordable health care for hardworking families.Let s continue our fight and get more women in leadership in this country.I m counting on you to keep fighting for what we all started: become a 2018 founding member of the DSCC Women s Senate Network today.
You ll even get your very own Nevertheless, She Persisted sticker when you do!Every minute counts to get a campaign off the ground.
It mattered the most when the DSCC helped launch my Senate campaign, and when they were there for Hillary when she launched her Senate career 17 years ago.And with your help, we can be there for the women who need help defending their seats now and for the next generation of women candidates ready to move into leadership.
Early help makes all the difference.Thank you for owning a piece of this.Elizabeth