It s very hard to pick between Ted Cruz and Donald Trump in terms of who would be worse for the country if either were to become the next president.
Hopefully it won t come to that.
but for now, what an embarrassment for the Republican party this must be to watch the candidates go after each other.
In the latest attempt to attack his rival, Texas senator Ted Cruz claimed that Trump has ties to the mob.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TXyCfhtWK1k]On NBC s Meet the Press, Cruz attacked Trump over his tax returns, citing possible reasons why Trump is not making them public.
Cruz went fishing on this one, saying that Trump is not revealing his taxes because he s supposedly worth less than Mitt Romney s few hundred million.
Then there s the money he allegedly gives to liberal groups.
He then threw in the mob tie allegation.
He said: Maybe he s not s rich as he says he is.
Maybe Mitt Romney is richer than Donald Trump.
He can answer that by releasing his taxes.
On the other hand maybe it s the case that he s given large sums of money to liberal left wing groups like Planned Parenthood.
You know, he praises Planned Parenthood in the debates over and over again.
Maybe he s a big financial supporter of that.
All of those questions Donald Trump can put to rest.
You know Chuck, maybe it s the case, there have been multiple media reports about Donald Trump s business dealings with the mob, with the mafia.
Maybe his taxes show those business dealings are a lot more extensive than has been reported regardless what the bombshell is.
Chuck Todd seemed startled by the claim and asked if Cruz had any evidence.
Cruz said: ABC, CNN, multiple news reports have reported about his business dealings with for example S&A Construction, which was owned by Fat Tony Salerno who is a mobster who is in jail.
It is owned by two of the major New York crime families and that has been reported in multiple media outlets.
It s interesting how Cruz, a lawyer, can be so dirty as to proclaim Trump s alleged mob ties simply because of reports.
That s the type of dirty campaign Cruz has run thus far.
However, there is no sympathy felt for Trump and the hope is that the Republican candidates can continue to make a mockery of one another.Featured image via video screen capture.