The Department of Justice laid down the law on Wednesday and announced that they have had enough and they are suing Ferguson for police misconduct.
The decision to sue came after the Ferguson City Council voted on Tuesday to change the terms of a deal that had been negotiated over seven months.The DOJ began investigating Ferguson police after 18-year-old Michael Brown was killed by former police officer Darren Wilson.
Although Wilson was cleared of any wrongdoing, federal authorities found a pattern of abuse and systematic racism within the department.For seven months federal authorities and the city hashed out a deal to fix the problems within the police department.
In a tentative agreement the city agreed to hire consultants to train officials, require every officer to have a dash or body cam, abide by specific guidelines for when officers can stop and question people on the streets, along with a number of other things.
On Tuesday, though, the city suddenly decided that they wanted to alter the agreement.
Shortly after the vote, the feds released a statement: The Ferguson City Council has attempted to unilaterally amend the negotiated agreement, Vanita Gupta, head of the agency s Civil Rights Division, said in a statement.
Their vote to do so creates an unnecessary delay in the essential work to bring constitutional policing to the city, and marks an unfortunate outcome for concerned community members and Ferguson police officers.
On Wednesday, Attorney General Loretta Lynch dropped the lawsuit on the brilliant city council.
She told reporters, We intend to aggressively prosecute this case and we intend to prevail.
She continued: The residents of Ferguson have suffered the deprivation of their constitutional rights, the rights guaranteed to all Americans, for decades.
They have waited decades for justice.
They should not be forced to wait any longer These violations were not only egregious, they were routine.
They were encouraged by the city in the interest of raising revenue.
They were driven, at least in part, by racial bias and they occurred disproportionately against African-American residents of Ferguson.
The fact is, the city has failed the people of Ferguson on so many levels and now they are going to waste millions of dollars trying to fight the federal government because THEY tried to play fast and loose with the DOJ.
They knew that their actions on Tuesday would result in litigation, but they took it as seriously as they take protecting people in their city.Hopefully, the citizens of Ferguson are able to get rid of each and every one of the council members who played a role in this vote.
Featured image from Wikipedia