Anyone with any sense of history realizes that the Confederate States of America and those who supported them were traitors who should have been in jail for treason.
Educated people also know that the Confederate flag, and honoring events from the Confederacy is largely seen as racist, and with good reason.
However, none of this has stopped Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant ( R-Of course) from declaring, through an official proclamation, that the month of April is now Confederate Heritage Month.
He chose the month of April, because, according to him, it is the time of year in which the Confederate States began and ended a four-year struggle.
Bryant says in his official proclamation: It is important for all Americans to reflect open our nation s past, to gain insight from our mistakes and successes, and to come to a full understanding that the lessons learned yesterday and today will carry us through tomorrow if we carefully and earnestly strive to understand and appreciate our heritage and our opportunities which lie before us.
Here is an image of the proclamation, courtesy of NY Daily News/Facebook:Yes, reflection is important Governor Bryant.
However, what you are doing is not reflecting.
You are celebrating treasonous slave owners, celebrating what is arguably the darkest time in American history.
That is nothing to be celebrated.
You can teach history, even ugly history, without celebrating it with nostalgia and making it out to be something good.Then again, Gov.
Bryant likely does not understand any of this, seeing as this proclamation, inspired by the very racist, pro-Confederacy group Sons of Confederate Veterans.
Bryant also said if those who fought for the south during the Civil War: The citizen-soldiers who fought for the Confederacy personified the best qualities of America.
The preservation of liberty and freedom was the motivating factor in the South s decision to fight the Second American Revolution.
Calling the Civil War the Second American Revolution is problematic enough in and of itself, but to refer to Confederate traitors as people who personified the best qualities of America is truly beyond the pale.
This man has no business running a state, or being in any position of power whatsoever.
Time to step down, Governor Bryant.
You are a disgrace to this country and to the office you hold.Featured image via Phil Bryant Facebook