Sarah Palin did something entirely expected of her, yet so irrationally stupid that it is almost baffling following the arrest of her son for drunkenly beating his girlfriend and making threats with a semiautomatic weapon: She found a way to blame President Obama.At a Trump rally, where nonsensical bullshit is accepted as fact without question by the vapid, racist buffoons that make up the billionaire s base, Palin said that PTSD and Obama were the true culprits in her son s woman-brutalizing, ammosexual ways: I can talk personally about this, I guess it s kind of the elephant in the room.
My son like so many others, they come back a bit different, they come back hardened, they come back wondering if there is that respect for what it is that their fellow soldiers and airmen and every other member of the military so sacrificially have given to this country.
And that starts from the top.
It s a shame that our military personnel even have to wonder, if they have to question, if they re respected anymore.
It starts from the top.
The question though that comes from our own president where they have to look at him and wonder, do you know what we go through?
Do you know what we re trying to do to secure America and to secure the freedoms that have been bequeathed us?
I can certainly relate with other families who kind of feel these ramifications of some PTSD and some of the woundedness that our soldiers do return with, Palin said.
And it makes me realize more than ever it is now or never for the sake of Americas finest that we have that commander in chief that will respect them and honor them.
Track Palin served with the Alaska-based 25th Infantry Division s 1st Stryker Brigade Combat Team for a single year in 2008, while George W. Bush was still President.Palin s nonsensical claim didn t sit well with veterans or with CNN political commentator Donna Brazile, who put Palin on blast Wednesday.
You have known me for a long time, so I m just gonna say it: she s a liar, Brazile told Anderson Cooper.
That s a damn lie.
She pointed out that House Republicans slashed $1.4 billion (with a b ) from President Obama s requested budget for veterans services, which included a $690 million reduction for medical care the sort of thing that would help veterans with PTSD: I care for all veterans I am the daughter of a veteran.
And to go out there and to insinuate that the president of the United States is trying to hurt veterans when in fact he is trying to put more resources so that we can give our young and old veterans the care we need, that s just a damn lie.
You can say Donna Brazile said it.
I approve this message.
Of course [Track Palin] should be held responsible for his own personal behavior, Trump supporter Jeffrey Lord contended when asked if Palin was right to blame Obama.
But we have been told time and time and time again that there is a serious problem within the VA treating veterans.
And I think that s the point she s trying to make.
He did not explain how in the world blaming Obama brought attention to any issues with the VA.
Drink the water, Jeff, Brazile shot back.
Drink the water.
Watch Brazile smack Caribou Barbie down below:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ctVqhpQXQeI&w=640&h=360]Featured image via Wikimedia Commons