Seriously.
Apparently, he thought being president would automatically make everyone love him.The Women s March on Washington was clearly several times larger than Donald Trump s inauguration.
In fact, it was so big that it happened around the world.Trump has been absolutely obsessed with his crowd size since inauguration day just like he is still obsessing over losing the popular vote on Election Day in November.The bottom line is that Trump is an illegitimate president and the truth hurts.And according to White House sources who spoke to the Associated Press, Trump has been whining about the massive protests and media coverage against him because he can t enjoy being president as long as both continue to occur.After relishing in Friday s inaugural festivities, the new president grew increasingly upset the next day by what he felt was biased media coverage of women s marches across the globe protesting his election, according to a person familiar with his thinking Two people close to Trump said he expected his coverage to turn more favorable once he took office.
Instead, he s told people he believes it s gotten worse.
The bad press over the weekend has not allowed Trump to enjoy the White House as he feels he deserves, according to one person who has spoken with him.If Trump really did not want to be protested, hated, and covered intensely by the media he should not have run for president in the first place.
Now he gets to deal with all the pros and cons of the job.
Surely, he knew about this stuff prior to throwing his hat in the ring.
After all, conservatives constantly attacked President Obama for eight years.
Obama also received threats against his life and had all sort of racial epithets hurled at him, something that Trump definitely has not had to deal with.But if Trump wants all the protesting and bad press to stop he has two choices.
First, he could simply stop being a dick and start protecting all the progress this country has made over the last 70 years instead of destroying it piece by piece.
Or, second, he could just resign.Because the more he whines and the more he tries to restrict the free press, free speech, and the right to protest, the more protests and bad news he will get in return.For some reason, Trump expected everyone to kiss his ass on Election Night and again on inauguration day.
He seriously thought he would be adored for destroying the lives of millions of people and embarrassing America around the globe.
He assumed the presidency would be just one long vacation and that everyone would worship him and that no one would ever protest him or write something negative about him.
In short, he thinks he is the dictator of North Korea, not President of the United States.Donald Trump is a thin-skinned bully, so protests should continue to be a theme over the next years and the free press should get to work telling the truth about Trump every chance it gets.
Because the more pissed off he gets, the more clear it will become to the American people that he is totally unfit for the office he holds.Featured image via Specer Platt/Getty Images