As we get ready for the most bigotry-fueled, racist, misogynistic administration in the modern history of the United States, the Republican Party is already setting its sights on robbing people of their human rights.
Knowing full well that President-elect Donald Trump shares their values (or lack of), the GOP has already announced their plan to defund Planned Parenthood, and Democrats across the country are organizing to stop them.Perhaps the most perfect takedown of this plan we ve seen so far comes from New Jersey s Senator Cory Booker, who was a massive supporter of Hillary Clinton during her presidential campaign.
During a press conference this week, Booker absolutely tore into the GOP while showing us all how to resist and stand up to such a hateful movement.
Here s what Booker said, and it should be shared with every single pro-life (or really, pro-birth) Republican you know: So, I don t have a message for fellow Republican elected, because they re not depending on Planned Parenthood in their neighborhoods.
They re well paid comfortable people.
I have a message for every American, Democrat, and Republican who rely on these services or know people that do, or have the kind of heart to care enough to stand up for the women that receive these services.
Booker called out New Jersey governor Chris Christie and reminded the GOP that there are very real, very serious consequences for defunding such a critical organization: I saw what happened when Chris Christie in my state cut the funding to Planned Parenthood.
I saw in poor neighborhoods doors being shut, hours being constricted.
Then, Booker pointed out exactly why resisting the defunding of Planned Parenthood is crucial, and how he plans to help lead the fight: This is a moment in America.
Republicans now think they re elected with a mandate to do these kind of things.
I saw just this week the craven overreach of the Republican Party when they tried the Republican GOP to gut Independent Ethics Oversight.
And what we saw there was the American people standing up and saying We will not tolerate this!
and so this is another point.We see that they will listen if enough people stand up and fight!And so this is the first shot in what is going to be a battle leading into real reconciliation.
And if enough Americans stand up and say we re not going to tolerate this.
We didn t elect anybody to rip out the key preventive services to make it harder to be someone struggling in this country to get basic healthcare services, that I believe in women, that I believe fundamentally in this country and that institutions like this make a stronger, better, more intelligent, more compassionate, more loving.And so frankly, what I m going to be doing every single day now leading the group reconciliations is trying to wake up the conscience of other folks, trying to call to people to protest, to fight, to stand up.
Because this cannot be allowed to happen.
Too many people will suffer.
The consequences will be felt by all.
Booker s powerful words could not have come at a better time, as the GOP has made targeting Planned Parenthood one of their first priorities.
You can watch Booker shut down the GOP below:What Booker is saying gives us hope that if enough people resist and fight the Republican Party s hatred and self-serving interests, we can protect the basic human rights of every American.Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images