Hillary Clinton should file a lawsuit against Fox News and Rudy Giuliani for this lie.During an appearance on Fox News with Bill O Reilly, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani blamed Hillary Clinton and President Obama for the rise of ISIS and actually had the gall to claim that Clinton is a founding member of the terrorist organization.
If you re talking about doing what she wants to do, which is to rally our forces against ISIS, you gotta come back to the White House, you gotta sit in the Situation Room, and you can t leave until you come up with a plan, Giuliani said.O Reilly then whined about President Obama not dropping everything to go back to Washington once news broke of the terrorist attack on Brussels.Ever since the attack, which killed over 30 and injured hundreds, conservatives have been unfairly criticizing President Obama for not canceling his trip in Cuba to hole up in the Situation Room.The problem is that President Obama can t really do anything beyond offering condolences and assistance if Belgium asks for help.
Obama offered both in the aftermath of the attack.
Conservatives have also said President Obama should go to Belgium, but that would only distract the first responders and police officers from doing their job since security of the president would require lots of preparation and man power.Giuliani then went off the rails into accusations that are nothing short of slander.
She helped create ISIS, Giuliani bellowed.
Hillary Clinton could be considered a founding member of ISIS.
When asked how Clinton created ISIS, Giuliani told O Reilly that she did so by being part of an administration that withdrew from Iraq and by being part of an administration that allowed Maliki to run Iraq into the ground.
O Reilly really didn t do much to challenge Giuliani either, which is yet another example of the lack of journalistic ethics that he and Fox News are known for.In the end, Giuliani said Clinton should have resigned as Secretary of State because that s what a patriot does.
Here s the video via YouTube.The fact is, however, that it was President Bush who signed the withdrawal of forces agreement with Iraq and helped install Nouri al-Maliki as the Iraqi Prime Minister in 2006.And let s not forget that Bush ordered the invasion of Iraq in the first place, which destabilized the region by removing Saddam Hussein, a traditional enemy of Iran, from power.
That alone caused a power vacuum in the region which allowed Iran to have more influence in the region while creating the conditions for ISIS to rise.Bill O Reilly ought to be ashamed of himself for allowing Giuliani to make such outrageous claims, and Hillary Clinton should smack Giuliani with a lawsuit because she clearly has a case against him for slander.
Clinton is NOT a member of ISIS and she certainly did not create ISIS.
Giuliani, however, is a lying asshole.
Featured image via Screenshot