The protest turned massacre at Tiananmen Square in Beijing in 1989 is one of the defining moments of the 20th century.
The world looked on as a young man jumped in front of a tank to stop its progress a day after the Chinese military enforced martial law on civilian protesters.
Reports state anywhere from hundreds to thousands of civilians were killed with possibly tens of thousands more beaten, wounded and imprisoned.It was a humanitarian nightmare so disturbing that the Chinese still won t allow anyone to talk about it more than a quarter-century later.
Virtually everyone with a conscience condemned the Chinese for the unnecessary use of force they exacted on their own people.
Everyone, that is, but Donald Trump.In an interview in 1990, when the blood was still visible on the sidewalks of Beijing, Trump talked about the massacre in an interview with Playboy Magazine: When the students poured into Tiananmen Square, the Chinese government almost blew it.
Then they were vicious, they were horrible, but they put it down with strength.
That shows you the power of strength.
Our country is right now perceived as weak as being spit on by the rest of the world.
Even back then Donald Trump was all about strength.
To a nitwit like him, the strength of the Tiananmen Square massacre came from the tanks that ran over students on bicycles leaving in their wakes some of the most horrific images ever caught on film.
To him, the Chinese government would have blown it had they allowed people to mourn the leader they loved and lost that led to unimaginable violence.Donald Trump sided with the Chinese on Tiananmen Square.His delusions about a weak America were also obvious.
This was 1990.
The Berlin Wall was about to come down.
The United States military was about to wipe the Persian Gulf region clean of Soviet defense systems in use by Iraq.
We were on the verge of declaring victory in the Cold War.
How is that weak, exactly?The only people who perceive America as weak, militarily anyway, are the numbskulls who support Donald Trump.
We won t be looked at as strong if Trump is elected, we ll be looked at as stupid.
Our country will lose what credibility President Obama has rebuilt after the disaster that was the Dubya administration.Rightfully so.Featured image via screen capture