No one gets under alleged president Donald Trump s skin more than Alec Baldwin.
Well, possibly with the exception of Sesame Street.
During the premiere of Baldwin s new film Boss Baby, a young fan had an interaction with the actor whose acclaimed parody of Donald Trump on Saturday Night Live has entertained the masses.A video shows Baldwin teaching the child how to impersonate Trump.
Fantastic, so fantastic, Baldwin says while imitating Trump s hand gestures.
Baldwin shared some of Trump s phrases and gestures with the young boy while the child gave it a try.
You got it!
Baldwin can be heard saying.Watch:.
@AlecBaldwin teaches a young kid how to properly do a @realDonaldTrump impersonation #BossBaby premiere pic.twitter.com/v8On6ZMxYt Joanna Preston (@JoPrestonTV) March 20, 2017 Saturday Night Live is enjoying its best ratings in decades thanks in part to Alec Baldwin and Melissa McCarthy, the latter of which does a dead-on impersonation of White House press secretary Sean Spicer.As much fun as one might think it would be to tick off the thin-skinned amateur president, Baldwin admitted in February that it s not.
Playing him is not a lot of fun because he s tense, he s angry, he s pissed off, and that s not always fun to play, Baldwin told Extra correspondent Hilaria Baldwin, who is Alec s wife, on the set of SNL, AOL reported.Still yet, Baldwin s impersonation has gotten quite a lot of feedback from Trump.In January, Trump tweeted, @NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC.
Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job.
Really bad television!
.
@NBCNews is bad but Saturday Night Live is the worst of NBC.
Not funny, cast is terrible, always a complete hit job.
Really bad television!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 15, 2017In early December, Trump called the show unwatchable.
Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can t get any worse.
Sad, he tweeted.Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can t get any worse.
Sad Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016And yet, Trump can t stop watching the show.
We hope the young boy grows up to do incredible impersonations of Trump after the impeachment in which the alleged president will inevitably say, I am not a crook!
Gosh, we hope this kid doesn t have a Twitter account.
Donald Trump is not a nice person.Image via screen capture.