It s time the American people wake up to the dangers and the treasonous nature that is Donald J. Trump.
Two days ago, at a press conference that made national news for being absolutely ridiculous, Trump had asked the Russians (either government or non government) to hack into the United States cyberspace to gather Clinton emails.
The reason?
He wants WikiLeaks, at the behest of Russia, to undermine Clinton and help him get elected.Well today, it s been confirmed that the Clinton campaign s computer system have been hacked and the Russians were probably the ones who did it.U.S.
intelligence officials have found evidence clearly linking state-sponsored Russian hackers to breaches in multiple Democratic affiliated organizations, including the fundraising Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and the Democratic National Committee.
The Clinton campaign has now been added to the triangle of breaches.Reuters broke the story Friday afternoon, receiving no comment from the Department of Justice nor any Russian officials.
When reaching out for comment, Reuters wrote:The Clinton campaign, based in Brooklyn, had no immediate comment and referred Reuters to a comment from earlier this week by campaign senior policy adviser Jake Sullivan criticizing Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump and calling the hacking a national security issue.
Reuters has also no knowledge of what specifically had been breached in the Clinton computer system.Maybe it s the emails Trump and his buddies at the Kremlin have been hoping for.
Given Trump s public ignorance of knowing Putin even though he has acknowledged in the past he does in fact know him very well it seems the timing of this new hack against Clinton is very coincidental.Also given Trump s strange admiration for Putin and apparently for individuals that hack, a lopsided influence in the United States Presidential election in favor of him also seems very coincidental given the circumstances just now coming to light.By saying he hoped Russians hacked Hillary Clinton which he tweeted and said on camera so it really isn t a joke to him Trump has made clear that he is perfectly A-OK with victory based on cheating an treasonous associations.It s one thing to joke it s another to have your Motherland thugs (who clearly support you) spring into action on your behalf.Whether or not Trump and his campaign clowns are involved (directly) in this remains to be seen.
Whether or not Trump and his campaign clowns are involved indirectly remains to be seen.
But thing is for certain: state sponsored Russian hackers are unfairly influencing this election, and like the KKK and David Duke, Trump and his campaign (save Mike Pence) have disavowed.That should scare everybody.Featured image via Joshua Lott/Getty Images