Donald Trump s ban on Muslims emigrating to the United States is having a negative effect on businesses and the families of employees.
And the CEO of Google just called him out for it.When it became clear that Trump was going to sign an executive order banning Muslims from entering the United States, companies across the country recalled employees who were working overseas back to the United States so they would not be locked out after the order went into effect.Trump s ban has struck fear into the hearts of families who have loved ones working for American companies in other nations.According to Bloomberg, Microsoft inserted language in a securities filing on Thursday on the issue, cautioning investors that immigration restrictions may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts.'
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg also expressed his concern about the policy.And now, Google CEO Sundar Pichai is criticizing Trump s immigration ban as well.
In an email to employees obtained by Bloomberg, Pichai vowed to fight for his employees rights and talked about how hurtful it is to witness how this policy is affecting families.
We re upset about the impact of this order and any proposals that could impose restrictions on Googlers and their families, or that could create barriers to bringing great talent to the US, Pichai wrote.
It s painful to see the personal cost of this executive order on our colleagues.
Pichai went on to explain that employees are grappling with what this might mean for them and their families, and described how an employee was in New Zealand and had to rush back to the United States to make sure they didn t become trapped overseas away from home.A company representative later added, We ll continue to make our views on these issues known to leaders in Washington and elsewhere.
This executive order has already drawn condemnation from the business community and leaders around the world.
Trump is turning America into a totalitarian country, and every human being in this country, and all over the globe, should be frightened by it.
Trump s agenda is going to hurt businesses, our economy, and our reputation.
And it s just going to get worse because Trump is nowhere near finished destroying this country and everything it stands for.
This is just the beginning.Featured image via Wikimedia