Donald Trump isn t exactly a stranger to making large groups of people angry women, African-Americans, Hispanics, Muslims, and mainstream Republicans all despise The Donald.
One group, however, has always strongly supported him the Stupid Part of America and he s about to lose them, too.
Trump s popularity with conservatives has soared since he began screaming about a god he will never actually understand, baby parts, and other favorite talking points of theirs but his recent remarks about Planned Parenthood may lose him a lot of support among the segment of the population who are dumb enough to fall for heavily-edited propaganda videos.At the insanely heated GOP debate, Ted Cruz managed to trick The Donald into defending Planned Parenthood.
During one of the screaming matches between Trump and Cruz that have become rather commonplace, the Texas Senator accused the billionaire of supporting federal funding of Planned Parenthood.
Eventually, he managed to goad Trump into supporting Planned Parenthood, though The Donald still spoke out against abortion.
But let me say more blunt Donald you notice didn t agree with the substance that he supports taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood and Donald has this weird pattern, when you point to his own record he screams Liar!
Liar!
Liar!
, Cruz said, pointing out that Trump has, in the past, said Planned Parenthood does wonderful things.
Trump replied: It does do wonderful things, but not as it relates to abortion.
There are wonderful things having to do with women s health, but not when it comes to abortion.
Planned Parenthood absolutely does do wonderful things.
But unlike Trump s assertion, those wonderful things include giving women access to a safe, sanitary abortion if they choose to have one.
Planned Parenthood also provides numerous irreplaceable services to women that have nothing at all to do with abortion, as well as informs women of alternatives to terminating a pregnancy like adoption.
In fact, only three percent of the organization s services are abortion-related.Unfortunately for Trump, this moment of honesty about Planned Parenthood will haunt him right up until election day because conservatives simply don t care about women.Watch the exchange below:Featured image via screengrab