Fox News host Tucker Carlson is so desperate to defend assault weapons that he accidentally made the case for why they should banned.During the Sunday morning edition of Fox amd Friends, Carlson argued that it s useless to ban assault weapons because terrorists will just go out and use crock pots to kill people instead.
This is an attempt to control and disarm the population.
And they re using terror as a pretext to do it.
And they should just admit that, Carlson said.The call to once again ban assault weapons has been strong ever since the mass shooting in Orlando that killed 50 people and wounded another 53.
ISIS sympathizer Omar Mateen was able to buy his assault weapon because Republicans in Congress refuse to ban suspected terrorists from purchasing and owning guns.Even Fox News hosts Bill O Reilly and Gretchen Carlson have declared their support for banning assault weapons during their own programs on the conservative network.Anna Kooiman explained that supporters of an assault weapons ban reason that a person will do less damage if they are only able to carry a knife or something much less deadly than an AR-15, which is a weapon of war and not something that was designed for civilian use.But Carlson claimed that crock pots should also be banned because terrorists used them to kill people, too.
Well, a crock pot caused those killings at the Boston Marathon.
I think we need to regulate those or ban them.
There s no reason you should be able to buy a crock pot at Walmart ever again.
And that s not only wrong, it s a false equivalency.As Raw Story points out, the Boston Marathon bombers used a pressure cooker, not a crock pot, as their weapon of choice.
And they were only able to kill THREE people with it.
The Orlando shooter, on the other hand, used an assault weapon and ended the lives of 50 people.
If Carlson really wants to compare a kitchen utensil to a gun, he should start looking for a better argument because if Mateen had been using a crock pot or a pressure cooker there would be more people alive today.Here s the video via YouTube.Featured image via screen capture