LONDON (Reuters) - Gavin Williamson was appointed as Britain s new defense minister on Thursday after Michael Fallon resigned over his past conduct as Britain s parliament was engulfed by a allegations of sexual harassment.
Here are some facts about the 41-year old.
Williamson was previously Chief Whip , appointed by Prime Minister Theresa May when she became leader in 2016.
Chief Whip is a crucial role which involves enforcing party discipline to make sure lawmakers vote in support of the government in parliament.
The term whip has its origins in hunting, where a whipper-in kept hounds from straying away from the pack.
It has been used in parliament since the 18th century.
Williamson owns a pet tarantula call Cronus, which he told the Telegraph newspaper he raised from a spiderling and keeps in parliament.
I have a very paternal sort of approach.
It s very much the same sort of love and care that I give to my spider as I give to all MPs (Members of Parliament), he said in November 2016.
He was first elected in 2010, representing a constituency in central England.
From 2013 he served as former prime minister David Cameron s aide in parliament.
A BBC profile said Williamson is a fan of the British version of the television series House of Cards, a fictional story about a Conservative chief whip plotting to become prime minister.
At the Conservative party conference last month Williamson said of his methods in the whip s office: We take a carrot and stick approach.
Personally I don t much like the stick, but it is amazing what can be achieved with a sharpened carrot.
Giles Kenningham, Cameron s former head of political press, told the New Statesman magazine in July: He understands the heartbeat of the party, he has a forensic knowledge of what s going on, he puts in the work in the tea rooms and the bars.
He knows everyone.
Williamson has a Bachelor of Science from the University of Bradford and before entering politics he worked as a managing director of an architectural design firm Cameron appointed him a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for political and public service.