Donald Trump s damage control regarding his penchant for sexually assaulting women is reaching ever-darker corners of evilness.
One of his accusers, Summer Zervos, who was a contestant on The Apprentice in 2006, and is a restaurant owner, is now being called a vindictive liar for coming forward about her experience with Trump.By her own first cousin, John Barry.According to Zervos, Trump got very physical with her: He put me in an embrace and I tried to push him away.
I pushed his chest to put space between us and I said, Come on man, get real.
He repeated my words back to me, Get real, as he began thrusting his genitals.
Trump, of course, denies this and has dug up Barry to issue a statement that is absolutely vile and is just another reason why so many of his victims stayed silent.
This is Barry s full statement: I am completely shocked and bewildered by my cousin, Summer Zervos, and her press conference today.
Ever since she was on The Apprentice she has had nothing but glowing things to say about Mr. Trump.
For almost a decade, my cousin would talk about how much she looked up to Mr. Trump and viewed him as an inspiration a success story she wanted to copy.
Summer would also talk about how kind and caring Mr. Trump was on the show, and how he would even visit children in hospitals without telling the press.
She has praised the good things he s done for her life, and in fact she converted her friends and our family to become Trump supporters even though we ve never been active in politics before.That was until Summer invited Mr. Trump to her restaurant during the primary and he said no.
I think Summer wishes she could still be on reality TV, and in an effort to get that back she s saying all of these negative things about Mr. Trump.
That s not how she talked about him before.
I can only imagine that Summer s actions today are nothing more than an attempt to regain the spotlight at Mr. Trump s expense, and I don t think it reflects well.
In a nutshell, Barry alleges that Zervos praised Trump and spoke glowingly of him for years, which obviously means she s lying now.
The fact that Trump turned down an invitation of hers just further proves that she s out for revenge, and was never assaulted.There s even an email below Barry s statement that must, obviously, be rock-solid proof that Zervos is lying through her teeth.Right.Because that s always the way it goes.
It doesn t even occur to Barry or anyone who believes him that she might have behaved that way out of fear that Trump would ruin her if she did anything.
Trump is rich, powerful, impossibly vengeful, and has resources she can t even begin to dream of.In fact, fear of retaliation is one of the primary reasons sexual assault victims stay silent.
Does anybody really believe that she could take on a man like Donald Trump, and actually come out of it in one piece?
Other than misogynistic jerkwads who think women are to blame for rape culture because they stay silent?Trump and his brainwashed puddles of rotting pig vomit believe that all of this is just too coincidental that all these women are ganging up on him specifically to derail his campaign.
He s creating bizarre theories of a global conspiracy against him, orchestrated by the Clintons, and carried out by multiple institutions with whom he has a gripe.The truth is that he s a sad, paranoid, disgusting excuse of a pig who preys on women because he thinks they re only around to help him get his rocks off.Photo of Summer Zervos by Frederick M. Brown, photo of Donald Trump by Brian Blanco, via Getty Images.