There are many certainties in life.
Grass is green.
Water is wet.
If you place an electric eel in your bathwater and climb in, the results will not be positive.
Ted Cruz is a liar.
Recently, Cruz played a trick even dirtier than sending out a campaign mailer falsely accusing Iowans of voting violations that feature data the campaign completely made up.
Continuing his tradition of never telling the truth about a single thing, he convinced people rival Ben Carson had dropped out of the race.
The press is reporting that Dr. Ben Carson is taking time off from the campaign trail after Iowa and making a big announcement next week, Team Cruz said in a campaign email.
Please inform and Carson caucus goers of this news and urge them to caucus for Cruz.
Cruz has, numerous times, cited faulty reporting by CNN as the reason his lackeys immediately began spreading the news that Dr.
Brain had quit.
In reality, the rumor came from Rep. Steve King, who retweeted a message from a CNN reporter and opined Carson looks like he is out.
Carson had previously announced that he will be skipping New Hampshire, where he polls lower than even Jeb Bush and Carly Fiorina, and South Carolina the same state that is currently building a multimillion dollar shrine to a shameful symbol of slavery.
Here s what was actually said:Carson won t go to NH/SC, but instead will head home to Florida for some R&R.
He ll be in DC Thursday for the National Prayer Breakfast.
Chris Moody (@moody) February 2, 2016One thing that is missing quite notably are the words Carson is dropping out or any variation thereof.
There s not even a suggestion that Carson intended to drop out.
During coverage, Jake Tapper and Dana Bash called the news unusual, but made no suggestion that Carson was quitting.
In fact, the very same tweet King and Cruz used to dupe people informs people who know how to read of his next campaign stop: the National Prayer Breakfast.
Unfortunately, we re not exactly dealing with geniuses in the Cruz campaign.
Last night when our political team saw the CNN post saying Dr. Carson was not carrying on to New Hampshire and South Carolina, our campaign updated the grassroots leaders just as we would with any breaking news story.
That s fair game, Cruz said in a statement following his crafty little ruse.
What the team should have done is send around the follow-up statement from the Carson campaign clarifying that he was indeed staying in the race when that came out.
That was a mistake from our end, and for that I apologize to Dr. Carson.
Unfortunately, Cruz ignored some very crucial follow-up tweets that appear to be intended to clear things up for people who were too stupid to grasp the meaning of the initial tweet.At this point, it s clear to everyone but Ted Cruz that Cruz lied.
Carson is going to skip two states that he stands no chance to win and instead relax in Florida.
There s no mystery, no controversy, no quitting.
Cruz even grudgingly admitted that CNN got it correct.
My political team saw CNN s report breaking news and they forwarded that news to our volunteers, it was being covered on live television, Cruz claimed, arguing that CNN had incorrectly reported that Carson was suspending his campaign from 6:30 p.m. to 9:15, and didn t correct that story until 9:15 that night.
The Texas Senator s blatantly false claim prompted a scathing reply from CNN, who pointed out that Cruz s continued use of the narrative was especially notable because Cruz had walked back his accusations against the network earlier this week and said, CNN got it right.'
In a statement, the network blasted Cruz s astonishing ability to commit to the lie: What Senator Cruz said tonight in the debate is categorically false.
CNN never corrected its reporting because CNN never had anything to correct.
The Cruz campaign s actions the night of the Iowa caucuses had nothing to do with CNN s reporting.
The fact that Senator Cruz continues to knowingly mislead the voters about this is astonishing.
It s amazing that Republicans are so willing to commit to their various lies even after reality destroys any illusion that they could be correct.
From Carly Fiorina still clinging to her baby parts propaganda after the videos were shown to be heavily-edited right-wing propaganda and their creators indicted by a federal grand jury, to Cruz s remarks about Ben Carson and CNN, to pretty damn near everything that comes out of Donald Trump s mouth (though we do believe him when he says he wants to bang his daughter), the representatives of the Stupid Part of America carefully craft a bubble of their own reality and refuse to leave it even when the facts threaten its existence.Watch CNN tear Cruz apart below: .
@tomforemancnn fact-checks @tedcruz on his false claim about @CNN https://t.co/082mLVxpTs CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) February 7, 2016Featured image via screengrab