To protect America from terrorist threats that don t even exist, Donald Trump signed an executive order banning citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States.
Since the order was signed, on Holocaust Memorial Day no less, families have been ripped apart and children have been traumatized.
One of the saddest of these stories is that of a badly burned baby who is being kept from his family to protect America.
Dilbreen, at the age of about a year and a half, was severely burned, explained Carrie Schuchardt from House of Peace in Ipswich.CBS reports:After a heater exploded in the Iraqi refugee camp where he was sleeping, an aid group got two travel visas and rushed the boy to Shriner s Hospital in Boston along with his father.After preliminary surgery, his dad returned to their war-ravaged country to be with his wife as she gave birth to Dilbreen s little brother.
It was November 8, an hour before Donald Trump won the election.
They named the baby Trump.
It s ironic, possibly humorous, but it s also in a way very meaningful because perhaps that child can redeem that name Trump, Schuchardt said.Dilbreen was scheduled to have a second surgery this month and his family had made arrangements to stay at the Peace House in Ipswich, but Trump s Muslim Ban has brought those plans to a screeching halt.
Thanks to the bigoted executive order, their visas have been revoked.
So they are stranded in Iraq, Schuchardt said.
The child is here.
The need for surgery is pressing.
On Tuesday, Massachusetts joined the ACLU lawsuit which challenges the legality of Trump s order.
Attorney General Maura Healey called the Muslim Ban harmful, discriminatory and unconstitutional.
It threatens the vitality, the livelihood, the lifeblood that drives so much of Massachusetts, Healey said.The lawsuit would help protect immigrants and visa holders already in the United States, but this doesn t mean it would do anything to help this baby waiting for surgery and his family.According to CBS, Dilbreen is currently staying with family members in Michigan and his surgery is still scheduled for Feb 5.
Attorneys are still fighting for special waivers to allow his family to be with him.Can somebody please explain to me how separating a burned baby from his parents keeps America safe?
How in the hell does this make America great again?
This is heartless, cruel and downright shameful.Watch more on this heartbreaking story here:Featured image via video screen capture