It shouldn t be surprising to anyone that Trump is attacking recount efforts in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
However, many people assume that he s doing so because he s afraid of the recounts proving he didn t actually win the election.
That s only partly true.
Evan McMullin, who ran for President as an independent, has a different hypothesis that s much worse than such a fear:It should not go unrecognized that @realDonaldTrump s effort to inflate his election performance without cause is typical of autocrats.
https://t.co/rY4e5jmWxZ Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) November 27, 2016They do it increase the perception of their political legitimacy, while undermining popular opposition to them.
Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) November 27, 2016Whoa.
Interesting idea, and it does fit with what we know of Trump s personality.
So it s not a stretch to believe that fear of losing face, and anger at having his legitimacy questioned at all, is at the root of Trump s attacks.
It s not just the possibility that he could be proven a loser here.But there s something even more insidious than showing Trump has autocratic tendencies.
We already know he has strong autocratic tendencies.
But he also undermined our democracy by repeatedly calling the election rigged.
His attempts to undermine opposition in this manner expands his attack on democracy.
McMullin points out that both of these tactics help to solidify an autocrat s power:And, in the process, they do enormous damage to democratic institutions, which is a larger objective they share.
Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) November 27, 2016Because it is those institutions and supporting norms that present the most significant check on an authoritarian s power.
Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) November 27, 2016When confidence in those institutions and norms has been sufficiently eroded, the authoritarian has a freer hand with which to wield power.
Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) November 27, 2016Trump s claims during his campaign that only he could fix our country, and fuck using our democratic system to try and do it because it s all rigged anyway, demonstrated his dictatorial nature.
By throwing Twitter tantrums over possible recounts, and claiming there was massive voter fraud even though he won, Trump is trying to put us all in our places while reinforcing his image as a strong political leader who is beloved by everyone.Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images