Huma Abedin announced she is dumping her sexting hubby Anthony Weiner, hours after The Post revealed his latest online dalliances.
After long painful consideration and work on my marriage, I have made the decision to separate from my husband, Abedin, a top aide to Hillary Clinton, said in statement.ANTHONY WEINER DELETED HIS TWITTER ACCOUNT AFTER THE PHOTOS AND TWEETS WERE PUBLISHED IN AN EXCLUSIVE BY THE NEW YORK POST:Is this guy Bill Clinton s twin separated at birth or what?
Both of these men are just total pervs!
Weiner resigned from Congress over his last escapade with sexting women.
This time Weiner is even more disgusting in his messages to a beautiful brunette.
He brags about his manhood and even says: I d put someone s eye out with this thing.
This is baby-sitting Anthony Weiner-style.While his wife, Huma Abedin, travels the country campaigning for Hillary Clinton, the disgraced ex-congressman has been sexting with a busty brunette out West and even sent her a lurid crotch shot with his toddler son in the picture.The stay-at-home cad shot the revealing photo while discussing massage parlors near my old apartment shortly after 3 a.m. on July 31, 2015, a screenshot of the exchange shows.Weiner was clearly aroused by his conversation with the 40-something divorcee when he abruptly changed the subject.
Someone just climbed into my bed, Weiner wrote.
Really?
she responded.Weiner then hit Send on the cringe-inducing image, which shows a bulge in his white, Jockey-brand boxer briefs and his son cuddled up to his left, wrapped in a light-green blanket.
You do realize you can see you[r] Weiner in that pic??
the woman wrote.Moments after forwarding the photo, Weiner freaked out over the possibility he had accidentally posted it publicly just as he did during the infamous episode that forced him to resign from Congress in 2011.
Ooooooh .
.
.
I was scared.
For half a second I thought I posted something.
Stop looking at my crotch, Weiner wrote back.
Whatever.
You did it on purpose, she replied.Read more: NYP