At a campaign rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Republican presidential front runner Donald Trump prefaced the caucus by inviting his loyal supporters to knock the crap out of protesters and that he would take care of the legal consequences of any resulting violence.Trump began his invitation by saying he d received a warning from his wonderful security guys.
He continued by referencing a recent incident where a heckler threw a few tomatoes at him during a rally: There may be somebody with tomatoes in the audience.
So if you see somebody getting ready to throw a tomato, knock the crap out of them, would you?
Seriously.
Okay?
Just knock the hell I promise you, I will pay for the legal fees.
I promise, I promise.
It won t be so much cause the courts agree with us too.
Here s the footage of Trump encouraging his fans to be violent at his rally:This isn t much of a surprise from Trump and without a doubt his supporters will be more than happy to take him up on that request.
Trump s supporters have earned themselves a reputation for roughing up protesters, and Trump has done little to stop the violence in some cases, he has even supported it and egged the crowd on.Previously, Trump came to the defense of his fans after they kicked and punched a #BlackLivesMatter protestor when he said, Maybe he should have been roughed up.
In another instance, Trump ordered security to throw a protester out of an event in Vermont without the heckler s coat, enthusiastically noting that it s about ten degrees below zero outside.
By the way, it s illegal to encourage people to commit violent crimes.
According to Iowa state law, anyone directing abusive words or making a threatening gesture which the person knows (or reasonably should know) is likely to provoke a violent reaction by another can be charged with disorderly conduct.
In a perfect world, Trump would be forced to spend 30 days in jail because his minions just can t resist following his orders.
Unfortunately, what will actually happen is his approval rating will go up.
Featured image from video screen capture