Donald Trump literally used the National Prayer Breakfast to brag about the low ratings of the new Celebrity Apprentice hosted by Arnold Schwarzenegger.
They hired a big, big movie star, Arnold Schwarzenegger, to take my place, and we know how that turned out, Trump said on Thursday morning in the middle of the event.
The ratings went right down the tubes, it s been a total disaster and I want to just pray for Arnold, if we can, for those ratings.
Seriously!?
How can anybody who calls themselves a Christian support Trump after this?
He actually used the prayer breakfast to attack a television show and bully the new host.
And this is a television show that Trump is credited as an executive producer.Of all the things that he could have focused on at the breakfast, like homelessness, hunger, peace, or even the dead Navy Seal and eight-year-old girl who were killed during a military raid he ordered over the weekend, he chose to brag about the ratings of his former reality show and asked everyone to pray for it.But Arnold Schwarzenegger soon issued a response to Trump on Twitter in the form of a video message that is sure to have Trump fuming for the rest of the day.
Hey, Donald, I have a great idea, he said.
Why don t we switch jobs?
You take over TV because you re such an expert in ratings and I take over your job so then people can finally sleep comfortably again?
The National Prayer Breakfast?
pic.twitter.com/KYUqEZbJIE Arnold (@Schwarzenegger) February 2, 2017Indeed, if Trump is so concerned about the ratings of his former show, he should resign and go host it again while Schwarzenegger, who actually has governing experience, takes over the presidency.A representative for Schwarzenegger also delivered this burn.
Arnold is praying that President Trump can improve his own approval ratings, which were the worst in history of any incoming president, by taking his job seriously and working inclusively.
Donald Trump is an embarrassment and disgrace to this country.
He is totally unqualified to be president and he should be tossed out on his ass in favor of someone like Schwarzenegger.
Any so-called Christian who voted for Trump should be ashamed of themselves.Featured image via Zach Gibson/Getty Images