Remember when Bill O Reilly took a vacation after his sexual harassment payoffs went public?
Well, let s hope Jesse Watters vacation is permanent, too.Watters is a product of Bill O Reilly s former Fox News program.
The racist and sexist segments known as Watters World often targeted specific groups in a sick and twisted version of right-wing humor.
From there, Watters was promoted as a guest host and just days after beginning a full-time gig on The Five, he is already taking time off after making a crude oral sex joke about Ivanka Trump on the air.While discussing Trump being jeered and booed in Germany for hypocritically talking about empowerment of women, Watters complained about liberals attacking Ivanka and characterized those attacks as anti-women even though what liberals are criticizing for is her blatant hypocrisy.
Ivanka claims to be a champion for women s rights but stands idly by while her father signs executive orders reducing protections for women.
In short, she is complicit by staying silent.Anyway, Watters couldn t control himself and ended up making a sex joke about Ivanka only days after Bill O Reilly was fired for sexual harassment.
And his joke came just after whining about how liberals are supposedly disrespecting women by booing Ivanka.
I really like the way she is speaking into that microphone, Watters said while gesturing with his hands, implying that he s talking about oral sex.Here s the video via YouTube.Watters later tried to cover his ass by claiming that he was merely talking about her voice.
On air I was referring to Ivanka s voice and how it resonates like a smooth jazz radio DJ, Watters wrote.
This was in no way a joke about anything else.
Viewers of Watters words and actions drew sharp criticism, especially from conservative writer John Podheretz, who referred to Watters as a disgusting creep.
You are so full of shit it s coming out your ears, you disgusting creep.
https://t.co/1cnrfc8rDC John Podhoretz (@jpodhoretz) April 26, 2017And now Watters is going on a vacation for the rest of the week.Again, Watters was only on his third day on the job as a full-time host of The Five and he couldn t control himself from making a crude sex joke about a woman.
He demonstrated perfectly that the sexist environment at Fox News has not changed at all.
It s merely been taken over by younger frat boys.If Fox News is serious about changing the culture at their network, they should make sure Watters stays on vacation.
Featured Image: Screenshot