Poor Hillary she s clearly a victim of some right wing conspiracy.
Everyone knows she s just a concerned granny on a selfless mission to help the everyday American She s on a mission to be a softer, warmer, funnier candidate but according to a new book, the real Hillary Clinton is so volatile and prone to violent outbursts that she terrorizes staff, Secret Service agents and even her own husband.In The Clintons War On Women (Skyhorse), out Oct. 13, political strategist Roger Stone details Hillary s abusive behavior dating back to the Clintons days in Arkansas, where Bill served as governor.
Hillary Clinton has a long history of being domestically violent with Bill, Stone writes.
Hillary has beaten Bill, hit him with hard objects, scratched and clawed him, and made him bleed.
Stone, a controversial figure who recently decamped from Donald Trump s campaign, also delves into the more fantastical rumors that have dogged the Clintons for years.Accounts of marital discord, however, have been well-reported for decades.
Even Bill Clinton s former press officer Dee Dee Myers later admitted that she covered for the first lady.In March 1993, when Hillary flew to her father s deathbed in Little Rock, Ark., Bill entertained Barbra Streisand at the White House.
When Hillary heard that the singer an unabashed admirer of the president had spent the night at the White House, she flew back home in a rage.The president was later seen with such a bad scratch on his neck that reporters were asking about it.
I m the idiot who said he d cut himself shaving before I d seen him, Myers told author Gail Sheehy in 1999.
Then I saw him it was a big scratch, clearly not a shaving cut.
Barbra Streisand was clearly around at the time.
Arkansas state troopers assigned to then-Gov.
Bill Clinton s detail had seen worse.
Once, when Hillary awoke in the middle of the night to find Bill gone, she called the trooper assigned to Bill and demanded he bring the governor home immediately.She was waiting in the kitchen, and as Chris Andersen wrote in American Evita: Hillary Clinton s Path to Power, the ensuing fight got violent, with shattering glass and slamming doors reverberating throughout the mansion.
When it was over, staff members .
.
.
[found] broken glass, smashed dishes and a cupboard door ripped off its hinges.
Andersen also wrote that Hillary would assault Bill in their limo en route to official functions.
Whatever was available, she d throw at Bill: Yellow legal pads, files, briefing books, car keys .
.
.
They d be screaming at each other, real blue-in-the-face stuff, one of their drivers said, but when the car pulled up to their destination, it was all smiles and waving for the crowd.
The Secret Service, Stone writes, got a glimpse of the domestic discord as early as Inauguration Day 1993, when Bill told her she couldn t take the vice president s office as her own.
Hillary began Inauguration Day 1993 cursing and shrieking profanities at Bill, Stone writes.
This account was also documented in Gary Aldrich s book Unlimited Access: An FBI Agent Inside the Clinton White House as was her verbal abuse towards her Secret Service detail.
Just stay the f k back stay the f k away from me!
she d tell them.
Don t come within 10 yards of me, or else!
Just f king do as I say, okay?
Hillary, Aldrich writes, was incensed that a Secret Service agent refused to carry her luggage not part of the job description.
Such disdain was inculcated in first daughter Chelsea.
As former Bloomberg News reporter Kate Andersen Bower wrote in her book, The Residence: Inside the Private World of the White House, Chelsea could be as vicious and imperious as her mother.
Chelsea was on the phone, Bower writes, when a Secret Service agent walked in.
Oh, I ve got to go, she told her friend.
The pigs are here.
White House florist Ronn Payne recalled that agent turning crimson.
Ms. Clinton, I want to tell you something, he said.
My job is to stand between you, your family, and a bullet.
Do you understand?
She replied, Well, that s what my mother and father call you.
In 1999, at the height of the Lewinsky scandal, Hillary again assaulted the president.Stone cites Christopher Andersen s account: Much of what transpired .
.
.
was plainly audible to Secret Service and household staff members down the hall.
In the past, Hillary had thrown books and an ashtray at the president both hitting their mark .
.
.
Hillary slapped him across the face hard enough to leave a red mark that would be clearly visible to Secret Service agents when he left the room.
You stupid, stupid, stupid bastard, Hillary shouted.
As editor and author R. Emmett Tyrell has reported, the verbal and physical abuse has not relented since the Clintons left the White House: Sources close to the Secret Service .
.
.
report that dreadful altercations have erupted several times, and usually involve yelling, screaming, throwing of soft and hard objects, breakage of vases and glasses and just plain nastiness.
The newer, fuzzier Hillary will be a hard sell with voters, Stone tells The Post.
There s only one Hillary Clinton: she s the Ice Queen, he says.
That s the real Hillary.
The one you see in her campaign that s the fake.
Via: NYP