While meeting with the press in the Oval Office on Wednesday, President Obama clearly had enough of Republican obstructionism and party politics holding the nation back from having a full Supreme Court.
The GOP has made it clear that they won t even entertain the possibility of a new Justice until there s a new president.
However, that s not going to prevent Obama from doing his job, and he really hopes these sheepish Republicans step up and do their job as well.Obama said: I m going to do my job.
I recognize the politics are hard for them [Senate Republicans] because the easier thing to do is to give in to the most extreme voices within their party and stand pat and do nothing.
But that s not our job.
Our job is to fulfill our constitutional duties.
Obama knows that once a nominee is chosen, and the American public sees this Republican obstructionism for all that it is, chances are, they won t be so quick to dismiss them.
The president continued: I think it will be very difficult for Mr. McConnell to explain how, if the public concludes that this person is well qualified, that the Senate should stand in the way simply for political reasons.
We ll see what happens and I think the situation may evolve over time.
I don t expect Mitch McConnell to say that is the case today.
President Obama then goes on to lay all the cards on the table and simply show the Republicans for what they are: unconstitutional fools.
The GOP is trying so hard to prevent Obama that they are going against their supposed values of being strict constitutionalists, and Obama shows them as the hypocrites that they truly are.Obama said: It s not in the text of the Constitution.
Ironically, these are Republicans who say they believe in reading the text of the Constitution and focusing on the intent of the Constitution.
None of the Founding Fathers thought that, when it comes to the President carrying out his duties, he should do it for three years and on the last year stop doing it.
Also saying that these Republicans take a posture that defies the Constitution, defies logic, and is not supported by tradition.
And really not holding back, the president states: There s not a lot of vigor when they defend the position they re taking when they defend their point.
They re pretty sheepish about it when they make those comments.
Which is exactly what they are.
These Republicans are choosing party politics over what s best for the nation.
They want to obstruct any choice the president makes while vilifying a hypothetical appointee before they even know who it s going to be.
They aren t even hiding their blatant politicking anymore.
To be honest, these Republicans should all find a new job if they don t want to do the one they ve been elected to do.Featured image: Pete Souza Instagram