Bristol Palin is no smarter than her mother, half-term governor of Alaska, Sarah.
However, she sure does think she knows a lot about a lot of things.
As if being an abstinence activist who has had two out-of-wedlock children weren t enough, Bristol has also decided that she is some kind of racism expert.Ever since black actors and their allies have decided to boycott the Oscars because, for the second year in a row, they have no black stars nominated for their prestigious awards, white folks all over the place have been telling Black America at large that there s no problem here, when we all know damn well there is.
Now, Bristol Palin has added her voice to the mix.She said that she agrees with Fox contributor Stacey Dash, who wants to ride the world of pesky, racist institutions such as BET and Black History Month.
This is bad enough coming from the Clueless star, who is black herself.
To refresh, Dash said the following: Either we want to have segregation or integration.
If we don t want segregation then we need to get rid of channels like BET and the BET Awards and the [NAACP] Image Awards.
Now, lily-white Bristol Palin goes and blogs about something that in no way concerns her.
Taking to her own blog, Bristol wrote: I have to admit, I don t know who Waka Flocka is, or what he sings, but I agree with him on this!
Though [Ice Cube] didn t mention Stacey by name, isn t it interesting how he echoed her sentiments exactly?
We shouldn t segregate ourselves or limit Black History Month to one month a year.
I wish things were really colorblind.
I don t know how other people think about it, but I hope my son sees early on that not everyone gets a trophy.
And this is the problem with people like Stacey Dash and Bristol Palin.
Ignoring problems like racism doesn t make them go away; in fact, it always them to fester and grow under cover of dark.
Exposing these things is how we rid the world of them.
These actors and their supporters are taking on a systemic problem.No, you privileged, clueless little girl, this isn t about trophies and segregation.
This is about uncovering the truth and telling it like it is, in an effort to right wrongs that are centuries old and counting.Then again, I don t expect you to know anything about that.Featured image via video screen capture