Awkward does not even come close to describing how cringeworthy and weird things got in Nevada on Tuesday night.
As Glenn Beck was merrily rallying Republicans in the name of Ted Cruz, competitor Donald Trump gatecrashed the event and proceeded to give an impromptu speech to the assembled audience.
Seemingly unwilling to be outmaneuvered by the Cruz camp as Ben Carson was in Iowa, Trump decided to take his war to the Ted Cruz camp in person.
First, the hate-tweets there was a Twitter tirade in the run-up to the event.Ted Cruz only talks tough on immigration now because he did so badly in S.C.
He is in favor of amnesty and weak on illegal immigration.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 23, 2016Wow was Ted Cruz disloyal to his very capable director of communication.
He used him as a scape goat-fired like a dog!
Ted panicked.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 23, 2016Ted Cruz does not have the right "temperment" to be President.
Look at the way he totally panicked in firing his director of comm.
BAD!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 23, 2016Ted Cruz lifts the Bible high into the air and then lies like a dog-over and over again!
The Evangelicals in S.C. figured him out & said no!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 23, 2016Then, came the in-person assault.Conservative pundit Beck was literally on stage, making his case to vote Cruz before a large crowd, when Trump stormed the hall.
Trump, flanked by security, was immediately mobbed by the GOP fans in the room.
He then picked up a microphone and began his own impromptu speech, cutting Beck dead.The crowd seemed all-too-happy to have their Cruz-fest interrupted by the GOP favorite, gathering tightly around the candidate and cheering in response to his weird and creepy speech.MSNBC happened to be broadcasting live at the Palo Verde High School in Summerlin, and was able to capture the bizarre scenes in full.Beck stood in silence on the stage, looking on helplessly as his event was overtaken by Trump, who told crowds: We are going to have hopefully a historic night, I appreciate everybody being here.
I wanted to be here myself and say a few words.
Get over there and vote!
Make America great again!
Trump went on to win Nevada by a landslide, with Marco Rubio narrowly pushing Ted Cruz into third place.He won a massive 45.9% of the vote, knocking Marco Rubio into 2nd place with just 23.9%, and Cruz in 3rd on 21.4%.
It appears that the Trump campaign is unassailable at this point, although a week is a long time in U.S. politics.Awkward.Featured image via Screengrab