In one of his regular appearances on the Imus In The Morning radio show, Dan Rather was asked by Imus in 1999, if he had any idea why NBC News was sitting on the story about the rape charges against Bill Clinton by Juanita Broaddrick?
Rather responded that the reason they were sitting on the story was pretty obvious.
First, Rather clarified that they don t call to tell him why or why not they choose to hide a story from their news channel, but suggested: I think it s pretty obvious that they re nervous about, number one, whether this information is accurate, whether it s really true or not.
And number two, even if it does turn out to be true, it happened a long time ago, and number three, they ve got to be figuring that maybe, just maybe the American public has heard all that they want to hear about it and they re saying, next , let s move on to the next thing.
Imus went on to say that he read an article in either the leftist propaganda Newsweek or Time magazine that even the woman herself, Juanita Broaddrick said she hoped that this thing went away this week, and even she was sick of hearing about it, [Dan Rather interrupted Imus with laughter] and it s her story.
Dan Rather then busted out in laughter and agreed, saying, Well let s hope she gets her way with that.
More laughter Imus then revealed that Someone from NBC News told me that she wasn t clear about when exactly this thing happened, but then her son called me and he s an attorney someplace, in, I guess in Arkansas, and he wanted me to know, why he called me god knows, but he wanted me to know that that was not the case, that she knows exactly what it was, and there was some other reason they were sitting on it.
Instead of responding to Imus comments, Rather deflected by making an embarrassing play to stroke Imus ego and distract him from the reason NBC hiding the Clinton rape story.
Rather continued, But I just don t know if this is going anywhere, you know, I d have to bet for the moment that it isn t. The Washington Post gave it a pretty good ride on Saturday, and there wasn t much pick up from it.
So unless there s some new and sensational information developed out of it, my guess is that it probably dribbles away.