If the Republican Party leaders thought that Donald Trump would become more presidential once he clinched the nomination, boy have they been wrong.
One of the first things he did after he was officially crowned the party s standard-bearer after the Republican National Convention was to get into a despicable spat with the family of a fallen Muslim American soldier after the father s speech at the Democratic National Convention.
Then, after a series of his signature crazy incidents, Trump decided to suggest that Second Amendment People should shoot Hillary Clinton.
Now, he is claiming that the Islamic State (ISIS) honors President Obama, who Trump calls a Founder of ISIS.
Trump said at a rally in Sunrise, Florida: In many respects, you know, they honor President Obama.
He is the found of ISIS.
He s the founded of ISIS.
He s the founder.
He founded ISIS.
Of course, no Obama smear on this or any other subject would be complete in Trumpland without a shot at Democratic Presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.
Trump continued: I would say the co-founder would be Crooked Hillary Clinton.
Crooked Hillary Clinton.
Trump went on to continue his indictment of Obama to his ignorant and bigoted followers by invoking the president s middle name, Hussein, which to Trumpkins means he s some kind of secret Muslim terrorist.
Trump did this during his uninformed remarks regarding Crimea, to chants of Lock her up!
from his nutty followers, saying that everything he s saying happened during the administration of Barack Hussein Obama.
Of course, all of this recalls the insanity of Trump s something is going on comments regarding the Orlando shooting and President Obama s handling of it.
In essence, he accused a sitting president of treason.Of course, these are all lies, but that matters not to Trump supporters.
So long as they lap up every smear, every word that comes out of his narcissistic mouth, Trump s dangerous rhetoric will continue.
If this doesn t tell people that Trump is in this for the money, power, and attention and nothing else, I don t know what will.Watch the video of Trump s latest remarks below, via The New York Times:Featured image via Joshua Lott/Getty Images