Infamous Donald Trump surrogate and supporter Scottie Nell Hughes thought she was going on CNN yesterday to make yet another pathetic attempt to get African-American voters to support The Donald (even though he is currently polling at ZERO with black voters) but her plans quickly went astray when political strategist Angelia Rye called her out for defending Trump.Cooper began the segment by running a few emotional interviews featuring three black women who had lost their children due to gun violence.
In making her completely flawed case, Hughes told host Anderson Cooper that Trump would be able to bring hope to black communities as well as jobs.
She said: It s these urban areas, 44 cities, where crime is going up as well as gang violence.
So there s an issue that needs to be addressed by those kinds of those communities, and they need to be supported whether it s through law enforcement or education.
Rye didn t hesitate to point out everything that was wrong with those comments, and drop a few truth bombs in the process.
Rye jumped in, pointing out that Trump and his supporters are so racist they hardly realize it: A couple of things.
One is gun violence specifically the overall crime rate has been on a steady decline since the 1980s.
But I think that it s really important to watch the words that we use.
When we say, Those communities, those people, who are we talking about?
Referencing one of the interviews that had prefaced the conversation, Rye echoed a woman s doubts that Trump could really take on Chicago s crime in a week, like he says he can.
Rye also reminded Hughes that Trump has had zero empathy for the black community and those who have been killed by police brutality, racial profiling and gun violence.
She said: Donald Trump was busy calling people who look like me thugs, blaming the victim in these instances of gun violence and police brutality.
That is deeply troubling to me and not only to me, but I m sure to several other I can t speak for all African-Americans but to other African-Americans.
You can watch Rye lay into Hughes below:Featured image via screenshot