(Reuters) - Highlights of the day for U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration on Wednesday: Two senior senators ask the FBI and Justice Department for any information they have on Trump’s unsubstantiated claim that predecessor Barack Obama wiretapped him during the presidential campaign.
The top U.S. doctors’ organization and several hospital groups come out strongly against a Republican plan backed by Trump to overhaul America’s healthcare system as Democrats mount a fierce battle to thwart the bill.
The state of Hawaii can sue over Trump’s new executive order temporarily banning the entry of refugees and travelers from six Muslim-majority countries, a federal judge rules.
Trump’s immigration policies could lead to collective expulsions of migrants in a breach of international law, the U.N. human rights chief says.
The United States says “all options are on the table” to deal with North Korea and dismisses China’s suggestion of a “dual suspension” of U.S. and South Korea military drills and Pyongyang’s missile and nuclear tests.
Trump meets with business leaders including Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk and real estate developers, as the administration seeks partnerships with the private sector to boost infrastructure spending.
Trump is “extremely concerned” about a security breach at the CIA that led to anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks publishing agency documents on its hacking tools and authorities are focusing on contractors as the likeliest source of the leak.
Trump’s administration is weighing a deployment of up to 1,000 American soldiers to Kuwait to serve as a reserve force in the fight against Islamic State as U.S.-backed fighters accelerate the offensive in Syria and Iraq, U.S. officials tell Reuters.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says substantial negotiations to revamp the North American Free Trade Agreement likely will not get started until the latter part of this year and could take a year to complete.
Three Democratic lawmakers are questioning the White House about its handling of Trump’s son-in-law’s potential conflicts of interest now that he is serving as an official adviser.
Walt Disney Co Chief Executive Bob Iger says his seat on Trump’s business advisory council provides an opportunity to voice opinions that will benefit the company and its shareholders.
Interviews with nearly a dozen corporate executives and lobbyists say the Trump they see in private meetings is very different from the Trump who criticizes companies on Twitter.