House Republicans failed to pass their disastrous healthcare bill on Thursday and Rachel Maddow hilariously mocked them for it.Due to the deep unpopularity of the legislation, Republican leadership decided to cancel the vote on the bill at the last minute rather than see it get humiliatingly defeated.Many Republicans are leaning against the bill because it fails to lower premiums and would strip healthcare away from over 20 million Americans, many of whom are conservatives who rely on the Affordable Care Act, which actually does keep premiums lower and covers more people.Under the Trumpcare bill, senior citizens would have to pay nearly ten times as much money on healthcare than what they currently pay under the Affordable Care Act.
And since senior citizens are a major voting block for the GOP for some reason, Republicans are backing away from the bill.Of course, Republicans have been rehearsing the repeal of the Affordable Care Act for years, holding over 60 separate votes in the House over the years just to make their conservative base happy.
But now that more people understand what the Affordable Care Act actually has done, they are fiercely opposing any repeal effort.Rachel Maddow noted the angry crowds of constituents at Republican town halls and pointed out with a laugh that the GOP bill is more unpopular than despised New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.
For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.
In the universe, including our weird politics.
A day after the election, nobody would have told you that Republicans would have any trouble repealing Obamacare.
That s what they could do on their own, they d push on an open door.
The Affordable Care Act, they d been rehearsing repealing it for years.
It would definitely be their first casualty, no problem.
Then they d get on to the hard stuff.
But people all over the country in every congressional district in the country changed the course of that otherwise inevitable history.The Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act has a 17 percent approval rating.
That s worse than Chris Christie.
There is not a single Congressional district in this country where the number of people who like the Republican idea out-number the people who strongly hate the Republican idea.
Not in a single Congressional district.
That happens for a reason.
That political climate doesn t exist in nature, it is created by people engaged in political action.
Maddow concluded the 2-minute segment by reminding everyone that Republicans failed to pass their bill despite having majority control of the House and said it s all thanks to people who have added their voices to the chorus of those opposed to killing a law that actually helps people.
For the people who have been trying to save the Affordable Care Act all over the country, even what just happened tonight is huge, Maddow said.
Everybody thought Republicans would be able to move at will on this but people said nope.
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump s healthcare plan would literally kill people in this country and that s not right.
It s inhumane.
It forces people to choose between getting medical care or not going bankrupt and that s morally wrong.
Healthcare is a human right and it s a need that no one should be priced out of having.If Republicans somehow ram this legislation down our throats they should be brutally punished for it.
Because any lawmaker who supports something that kills people is not someone who should be in public office.Featured image via screenshot