Since President Obama took office in 2009, the right-wing has been awash with claims that he is a secret Muslim foreigner who plans to bring Sharia law to America.
Now, they are going to have the proof they ve been waiting seven long years for: the president is going to visit a mosque next week.Oh my sweet Allah!Never has a president ever spawned as many conspiracy theories as Barack Obama.
During his tenure in the White House we have heard all kinds of crazy things, but perhaps one of the most asinine is the assertion that practices the Islamic faith.
Conservative nutters have taken his education and used it to peddle lies to their bigoted base.
Of course, even if the presOf course, even if the president were Muslim it wouldn t matter since we have this really old document called the Constitution that grants every person in the United States the inalienable right to practice (or not practice) whichever faith they want to.
Furthermore, Article VI, Clause 3 of the Constitution says: ; but no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States.They know that it doesn t matter if he is a Muslim, but they claim that he is because Islamophobia sells just look at Donald Trump.So, perhaps with all of this speculation out there it s no wonder the president has never visited a mosque over the last seven years.
However, that is all about to change as the White House announced Obama will make his first trip to a mosque on Saturday to show the community support.
The president believes that one of our nation s greatest strengths is our rich diversity, White House spokesman Keith Maley said.
As the president has said, Muslim Americans are our friends, and neighbors; our co-workers, and sports heroes and our men and women in uniform defending our country.
The GOP will predictably go wild.
I m sure the whole super secret Muslim Kenyan dictator Frenchman double agent talk will rear its uneducated head again.
Luckily for us as he finishes out his time in office he gives less sh*t about what the Party of Hate expects him to do and more about what needs to be done.Featured image via Salon