The release of Americans being held prisoner in Iran comes as welcome news to most patriotic citizens, happy to see these people come home.
Except for the Republican presidential candidates.The top tier of men seeking the GOP presidential nomination released messages about the hostage release on Saturday, but almost to a man they had to be mealy-mouthed in their missives, upset that once again under President Obama, an international situation has been defused and resolved without the world going to war and hundreds or thousands of people being killed.Donald Trump, the current front runner: Iran is getting seven people, so essentially they get $150b plus seven, and we get four, adding, I m happy they re coming back, but I will tell you it s a disgrace they ve been there so long.
Ted Cruz released a tweet: Praise God!
Surely bad parts of Obama s latest deal, but prayers of thanksgiving that Pastor Saeed is coming home Chris Christie: The prisoners should have been released without condition, but you know, the Iranians have treated this president with disrespect for years and he continues to take it.
Marco Rubio: Iran takes people hostage in order to gain concessions and the fact that they can get away with it with this administration I think has created an incentive for more governments to do this around the world.
Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian is going to be home with his family, as will former Marine Amir Hekmati, Saeed Abedini, Nosratollah Khosravi-Roodsari and Matthew Trevithick.
So will the Navy sailors who were detained by the Iranian government.
Nobody has died.
We didn t have to go to war or fire rockets.
At the same time we have negotiated a deal now underway that will prevent Iran from becoming a dangerous nuclear state.All of these developments have come under the leadership of Barack Obama, who defeated the Republican candidate in 2008 who promised to simply bomb Iran.
America chose a different path and it has worked out.And that is driving Republicans crazy.Featured image via YouTube