Conservatives thought an unpredictable president would be a good idea, but as it turns out, to be the leader of the free world, you have to measure your words, think before you talk, and above all, don t reveal highly classified data.
Monday night, after it was discovered that amateur president Donald Trump bragged to Russian officials, then revealed intelligence information to them, his White House staffers were heard screaming in a nearby office.
It was like a White House slap fight was taking place with no one able to contain the damage.It gets worse.Trump s national security and foreign policy staffs have been spending much of their time planning for his upcoming eight-day trip to the Middle East and Europe.
The former reality show star is meeting with foreign leaders after his major blunder with sensitive information.The New York Times reports:There is a growing sense that Mr. Trump seems unwilling or unable to do the things necessary to keep himself out of trouble, and that the presidency has done little to tame a shoot-from-the-hip-into-his-own-foot style that characterized his campaign.There is a fear among some of Mr. Trump s senior advisers about leaving him alone in meetings with foreign leaders out of concern he might speak out of turn.
General McMaster, in particular, has tried to insert caveats or gentle corrections into conversations when he believes the president is straying off topic or onto boggy diplomatic ground.
(my emphasis)According to two officials, McMaster s gentle corrections has irked Trump.
And remember, Trump has publicly declared that his former security adviser, Michael Flynn, was a wonderful man.
Trump said that after Flynn was forced to resign.Trump has said that General McMaster talks too much in meetings, and the former reality show star has referred to him as a pain, according to one of the officials.In private, three administration officials conceded that they could not publicly articulate their most compelling and honest defense of the president: that Mr. Trump, a hasty and indifferent reader of printed briefing materials, simply did not possess the interest or knowledge of the granular details of intelligence gathering to leak specific sources and methods of intelligence gathering that would do harm to United States allies.In December, Trump said, I don t need daily intelligence briefings.
Tuesday morning, Trump admitted on Twitter that he revealed the intel to the Russian officials.
A few hours later, McMaster held a press briefing to do damage control.
He bizarrely explained that since Trump didn t know where the Intel came from, it was wholly inappropriate for him to disclose it.It suddenly makes sense why White House press secretary Sean Spicer was recently seen hiding in the bushes.Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images.