While Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump can boast and claim he s going to win the presidency hands down, he s forgetting that he s only been in the Republican primary against some incredibly weak and equally as unappealing candidates.
Sure, he s popular among his band of merry morons who want a wall to keep out foreigners and may not have learned how to use a fork yet, but when it comes to the general election, he s pretty much toast.No matter who the Democrats run up against Trump, whether it be the frontrunner Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders, they both would kick his ass at the ballot box come November.
Clinton is even ahead in the popular vote by millions against anyone running, if that s not already a clear indicator of what s to come later this year.Another person who knows Trump will lose is President Obama, and he s also very blunt in explaining that the real estate mogul/reality television star isn t qualified to be president, nor would he be able to actually fulfill the duties of commander-in-chief.During the White House Correspondents Dinner the president quipped, They say Donald lacks the foreign policy experience to be president.
But in fairness he has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world: Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan.
Then on Monday, President Obama said during an interview with WMUR in New Hampshire: I think that he is not somebody who even within the Republican Party can be considered as equipped to deal with the problems of this office, but look, we live in a democracy.
Clearly indicating that people are more than allowed to vote for him, but he added: If in fact the Republicans nominate Mr. Trump, then it s going to be an interesting Fall season.
I m confident that ultimately the Democrat in that circumstance will win.
Which is absolutely correct.
It would also be a rude awakening for the Republican party that clearly has let itself fall apart before our very eyes.
Which honestly is very entertaining, but equally as terrifying.What it comes down to is this: Donald Trump is not only a dangerous choice for president, but him running is just absolutely ridiculous.
He s not at all prepared for the role of President of the United States.
He doesn t even talk the talk.
He just goes around bullying his competition, women, minorities, and Muslims all while talking about a wall that is never gonna happen, nor does it even make logistical sense.Enough is enough, folks.
Just remember, no matter who vote blue.Featured Photos by Bill Pugliano/ Joshua Lott/Getty Images