After months of finding no evidence of Russian collusion with the Trump campaign, is this sudden development a distraction from the real news about Crooked Hillary Clinton s Russian and friends actual Russian collusion?A federal grand jury in Washington, D.C., has reportedly approved the first charges in special counsel Robert Mueller s investigation into Russia s meddling in the 2016 election.CNN reported Friday that the charges are sealed under a federal judge s order, with sources telling the network that those charged could be taken into custody as soon as Monday.It is unclear what the charges are, the network reported.
A spokesman for the special counsel s office declined to comment to CNN.
The HillMany Twitter users think Mueller s Friday night charges only serve as a distraction from the REAL scandals, like Uranium One and the Clinton and DNC involvement in the phony Trump Russia dossier:fake Mueller charges are designed to distract the American people from the REAL scandals: Uranium One, Fusion GPS & the Clinton Foundation pic.twitter.com/W2ui9mQYV8 Raven (@KazeSkyz) October 28, 2017Reactions when you heard Mueller filed the first charges in his investigation?
pic.twitter.com/gxFmzX6Zbl Donald J. Trump (@AKADonaldTrump) October 28, 2017FOX News Special Counsel Robert Mueller is facing a fresh round of calls from conservative critics for his resignation from the Russia collusion probe, amid revelations that have called into question the FBI s own actions and potentially Mueller s independence.This week s bombshell that a controversial anti-Trump dossier was funded by the Democratic National Committee and Clinton campaign has Republicans asking to what extent the FBI which received some of the findings and briefly agreed to pay the same researcher to gather intelligence on Trump and Russia used the politically connected material.Hill investigators also are looking into a Russian firm s uranium deal that was approved by the Obama administration in 2010 despite reports that the FBI then led by Mueller had evidence of bribery involving a subsidiary of that firm.
Critics question whether Mueller s own ties to the bureau as well as fired FBI director James Comey now render him compromised as he investigates allegations of Russian meddling and collusion with Trump officials in the 2016 race.
The federal code could not be clearer Mueller is compromised by his apparent conflict of interest in being close with James Comey, Rep. Trent Franks, R-Ariz., who first called for Mueller to step down over the summer, said in a statement to Fox News on Friday.
The appearance of a conflict is enough to put Mueller in violation of the code.
All of the revelations in recent weeks make the case stronger.
Outgoing New Jersey GOP Gov.
Chris Christie, a former federal prosecutor and Trump ally, also suggested Friday that Mueller consider stepping aside.
If the facts that you just laid out are true, then somebody with Bob Mueller s integrity will step aside and should if in fact those facts, as you laid them out, are true, Christie said on Fox & Friends, in response to various conflict-of-interest allegations.