I wonder how many of J.B. Pritzker s children or grandchildren will be forced to share locker rooms or bathrooms at the country club with men or women of the opposite sex?
This election has brought out a never-ending supply of elitist liberals with big mouths, who have all kinds of great ideas for the little people to implement A billionaire Democratic megadonor, who is exploring a run for governor, encouraged men to use women s bathrooms on Wednesday sparking criticism from transgender advocates and politicians.J.B.
Pritzker, the billionaire heir whose father co-founded Hyatt hotels, floated the idea of switching bathrooms in the wake of President Donald Trump s executive order reversing an Obama policy that could have stripped federal funds from schools that maintain separate bathroom facilities based on sex.
As a protest against Trump s rescinding protections for trans kids, everyone should use the other gender s bathroom today!
he tweeted at 8:36 a.m.As a protest against Trump's rescinding protections for trans kids, everyone should use the other gender's bathroom today!
#protecttranskids JB Pritzker (@JBPritzker) February 23, 2017Not everyone on Twitter agreed with Pritzker.
Some on the right even used (gasp!)
facts to bolster their argument.
Like the fact that, a TINY .01% of the population are actually affected by a federal transgender bathroom law:Draconian federal regulation is unneeded.
We're talking about a TINY .01% of population.
Let schools deal with this directly!
Nicole4Trump (@niteowlmom3) February 23, 2017The tweet immediately provoked criticism from liberals.
Illinois State Rep. Will Guzzardi (D., Chicago), a supporter of the Obama rule, said that Pritzker s tweet was insensitive and mischaracterized the transgender bathroom and locker room debate.
No disrespect @JBPritzker but it s actually about precisely *not* that.
We just want to let kids use their own gender s bathroom, Guzzardi tweeted in response.
Your idea suggests that we support ppl going into opposite-gender bathrooms, which plays right into transphobic rhetoric.
Pritzker has been called the other mayor of Chicago for his political influence and massive campaign spending on behalf of Democratic candidates such as Chicago Mayor Rahm Emmanuel.
He has close ties to the Clintons, having served as the national co-chair of Hillary Clinton s failed 2008 presidential bid, as well as the Obama administration.
His sister, Penny Pritzker, served as Secretary of Commerce under President Obama from 2013 until he left office.
J.B. Pritzker and his wife were two of the largest individual spenders in the 2016 election, shelling out more than $21 million to elect Clinton and other Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.Pritzker has now set his sights on the Illinois governor s mansion and is exploring the idea of self-funding a campaign.
Rauner self-financed a $40 million campaign run in 2014, which helped him overcome steep Democratic advantages in the deep blue state.Other Democrats vying for the nomination were quick to criticize Pritzker s protest idea.
Tom Elliot, communications director for Chicago Alderman Ameya Pawar s gubernatorial campaign, accused the billionaire of missing the point entirely Telling people to use the other gender s bathroom is missing the point entirely and a terrible idea.
@JBPritzker #protecttranskids, Elliot replied.
WFBTelling people to use the other gender's bathroom is missing the point entirely and a terrible idea.
@JBPritzker #protecttranskids Tom Elliott (@trelliott) February 23, 2017