John and Melissa Wood are typical right-wing loons.
After their daughter told them about her class assignments, John Wood set off to LaPlata High School in Maryland in a fit of rage.
His daughter, it seems, was taught about Islam as part of a world history course, which didn t sit well with the bigoted former marine or his wife.According to the Woods, their daughter was forced to accept Islam as her one true religion and was forced to memorize the five tenets of the faith.
They argued that the class only spent a single day on Christianity and then moved on to two weeks of Islamic training.Learning to recite things in the course of a history class is what most people would call studying, but the dad found it so vile that she was being forced to convert to Islam that he went to the school and threatened the faculty, resulting in an immediate ban from the property and a no trespass order from local law enforcement.While the school contends that the reality of the situation doesn t fit the narrative the bigots have concocted, the Woods have decided to sue the school with the help of the Thomas Moore Law Center, the right-wing crackpot firm that unsuccessfully argues for intelligent design and Christian indoctrination in schools on a regular basis.
The center said in court filings: A school cannot achieve diversity by punishing and alienating students who hold Judeo-Christian beliefs, while bolstering the doctrines and teachings of other religions.
Parents must be ever vigilant to the Islamic indoctrination of their children under the guise of teaching history and multiculturalism.
This is happening in public schools across the country.
And they must take action to stop it.
Yeah, that s not at all what s going on.
As the school explained in a statement to WTOP: The particular unit in question is on the formation of Middle Eastern empires in which students learned the basic concepts of the Islamic faith and how it, along with politics, culture, economics and geography, contributed to the development of the Middle East.
Other religions are introduced when they influence or impact a particular historical era or geographic region.
For example, when reviewing the Renaissance and Reformation, students study the concepts and role of Christianity.
When learning about the development of China and India, students examine Hinduism and Buddhism It doesn t matter how you try to explain teaching Islam to right-wing imbeciles.
They see all Muslims as a threat the them.
They hear the word Muslim in a public school and their heads explode, because the 1st Amendment says no religion in public places.
Now tell that teacher to lead those kids in christian prayer before it s too late for them.The most ridiculous argument the suit brings is this: The course also taught false statements such as Allah is the same God worshiped by Christians and Islam is a religion of peace' According to these people a religion of a billion people are out to kill us all.
Considering if that were true they would only have to get about 6 people each to kill all non-Muslims, you have to wonder why it hasn t happened already.
You also have to wonder how people can continue to call Islam a pagan religion when the tribe Mohammed came from was directly descended from Ishmael, son of Abraham, considered the steward of the faith to his tribe and brother of Isaac, patriarch of Judaism.I learned that from a high school world history course.The Woods are asking for injunctive relief barring the teaching of anything that has to with Islam from school grounds and for the trespass order to be lifted.
It shouldn t be long before this case, much like all of the other zealot-friendly issues brought by the Moore Center.Featured image from Wikipedia