Yet another responsible gun owner caused her child to nearly die after she left her kids in the car with a loaded and unsecured handgun on Thursday.
This Mom of the Year candidate decided that it was not only appropriate to leave her children alone in the car while she went shopping at the Village Market in Birmingham, Alabama, but didn t think to remove her firearms from the vehicle a mistake far too many gun enthusiast parents make.According to Birmingham police spokesman Sgt.
Bryan Shelton, the children did what all children do when left unsupervised they found something to keep themselves occupied.
The older of the unnamed woman s children found her mother s gun, picked it up, and the firearm discharged.
The bullet grazed the woman s four-year-old son s head, but did not enter the skull.
Fortunately, the child was transported to a nearby children s hospital where he is in stable condition.
If you choose to own a gun you have to be safety minded and exercise a higher standard of care, Shelton said.
We re glad he s OK.
While this was obviously a horrific and preventable incident caused solely by the arrogance and stupidity of one of the NRA s Chosen, commenters on the story at AL.com spoke up in her defense.
After all, it s not as bad as abortion, right?
Earlier this month, Florida Second Amendment advocate Jamie Gilt who previously ran a pro-gun Facebook page was shot in the back after her four-year-old son found her loaded handgun near his car seat.
Before the shooting, Gilt bragged that her 4-year-old gets jacked up to shoot guns with her, something she learned when she allowed him to have access to a gun through sheer negligence.Unlike the Alabama woman, Gilt ran afoul of a state law that makes it a crime only a misdemeanor, but still a crime to store a loaded firearm in such a manner that it is likely a child will gain access to the weapon.
She faces up to 120 days in prison far too little time, but still more than we usually see after this sort of incident.Until these responsible gun owners start spending real time in prison, this sort of thing will continue to be commonplace, and the NRA will continue to convince its followers this was a horrible accident that could happen to anyone, never mentioning that anyone only includes people who view themselves as good guys with guns.
Featured imge via AL.com