Twitter is presumptive presidential nominee Donald Trump s favorite platform for his many offensive rants.
However, like most social media platforms, there are rules against certain kinds of language.
That includes hate speech against marginalized groups of people.
To that end, the Twitter account of singer Azealia Banks was recently shut down because of racist and homophobic hate speech.
That is a good thing, but, none other than Bette Midler pointed out something that should be obvious to all: if they are applying this rule against bigotry on their social networking platform, why the hell wasn t Donald Trump banned from Twitter a long ass time ago?Midler tweeted:Twitter deactivated Azealia Banks account for homophobia & racism?So why is Donald Trump still here?
Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) May 15, 2016Now, the thing is, nobody should be tweeting out hateful speech of any kind, but isn t it a little suspicious that Trump can troll women, be an open racist and misogynist on a regular basis via his Twitter account, and nothing happens to him?
Instead, the social media giant chose to use a black woman as a way to make the point that they are cracking down on the cesspool of an atmosphere on that site.The thing is, the very nature Twitter means that it s going to be a pretty rough and tumble place to hang out.
The platform lends itself to deliberately off the cuff, say what you think when you re thinking it remarks.
That in and of itself is a recipe for disaster and perfect haven for trolling.
The thing is, though, if you re going to try to clean the place up, Twitter powers that be, maybe you should start with the real problem, which is the likes of Donald Trump.That would send a REAL message.
Nobody is saying that Azealia Banks didn t deserve to be suspended while she cools off for a bit, but the only message you sent with this suspension is a double standard when it comes to how you treat white men vs. how you treat black women.
After all, Trump is running for president and has been as hateful as they come via your platform on a grand scale for eons now, and you ve done absolutely nothing.
Is that really the message you want to send?Featured image via Bette Midler Twitter