It s no secret that President Obama has a quick wit and a great sense of humor.
Both were on full display on Thursday s edition of Jimmy Fallon s The Tonight Show, and the target of said wit and humor was GOP presumptive presidential nominee Donald Trump.
First, Fallon asked Obama his opinion on how the GOP felt about Trump being their nominee, and he said that the Democrats are happy about it, for sure.
Then on a more serious note, the president went on to say: The truth is, actually I am worried about the Republican Party.
I know that sounds you know what it sounds like.The main role I m going to be playing in this process is to remind the American people that this is a serious job.
This is not reality TV.
Then the mockery resumed, this time aimed at the astoundingly stupid Republicans sitting in Congress who have made Trump their standard bearer.
Obama said: Thank you, Congress, for spending eight years wishing you could replace me with a Republican.
Or, to put it another way, how do you like me now?
After that, the president reminded America just how much he has managed to do, how far he has pushed America in all the right directions, despite constant GOP obstruction during the entire tenure of his presidency: I m proud of the many progressive steps our country has taken in recent years, both socially and environmentally.
The United States has been a leader in developing clean energy to ensure the health of our planet for future generations.
Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, an additional 20 million Americans now have access to quality health care, and same-sex couples across the country now have a constitutional right to marry.
In short, climate change is real, health care is affordable and love is love.
After that, the president got serious again for a second, and reminded us all what is at stake should Donald Trump take the White House: The American people face an important decision this fall.
The entire world is watching, and they look to us for stability and leadership.
I know some of the candidates have been critical of my foreign policy.
I don t want to name any names, but I believe it is of the utmost importance to work alongside other world leaders.
That s why I signed the Iran nuclear deal.
That s why we reopened diplomatic ties with Cuba.
And that s why I negotiated the new trade deal called the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP.
That is when Jimmy Fallon asked President Obama his feelings on TPP, and the Commander-in-Chief did not mince words: Yeah, you know me.
Look, Jimmy, the TPP allows American businesses to sell their products both at home and abroad.
The more we sell abroad, the more higher paying jobs we have here at home.
It s that simple.
After that, things got funny again as the segment drew to a close, where Fallon asked what Obama thought of the Trump media circus.
The president took a real shot at the GOP s incessant racist attacks against him, and, of course, Trump s own racism, when asked if he had been tuning in: No, but I have been watching my new favorite show, Orange Is Not The New Black.
Once again, President Obama shows himself to be a warm, down to earth, classy and adorably hilarious human being, despite being near the end of what is arguably the most difficult presidency in the history of America.
He is right about Trump, and he is right to endorse Hillary Clinton in an effort to stop Trump.
Most of all, though, he has not allowed anything that has been slung his way to make him lose his humanity and his sense of humor.Well done, Mr. President!
We re sure gonna miss you.Watch the video below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture