WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee called on Tuesday for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address a joint meeting of Congress during a visit to Washington in June.
“Given the depth of our relationship with India across a range of areas - defense, humanitarian and disaster relief, space cooperation, conservation and innovation - we believe this is an ideal opportunity for the Congress to hear directly from the prime minister,” Representatives Ed Royce, the Republican committee chairman, and Eliot Engel, the panel’s ranking Democrat, wrote to House Speaker Paul Ryan.
The invitation would be a sharp turnaround for a leader who was once barred from the United States over massacres of Muslims.
A spokeswoman for Ryan said she had no announcement at this time about whether Ryan would extend the invitation.
Invitations to address the Senate and House are considered a great honor.
There have been only two in the past year: Pope Francis, on Sept. 24, and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, on April 29, 2015.
When Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies swept India’s elections in 2014, there initially were questions about whether he would qualify for a visa.
President Barack Obama quickly dismissed the issue by inviting him to the White House when he called to congratulate him on his victory.
In 2002, when Modi had just become Gujarat’s chief minister, more than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, were killed in sectarian riots in the state.
The administration of President George W. Bush denied Modi a visa in 2005 under a 1998 U.S. law barring entry to foreigners who have committed “particularly severe violations of religious freedom.” Modi denied any wrongdoing.
India’s Supreme Court ruled in 2010 he had no case to answer.
Washington sees its relationship with India as critical, partly to counterbalance China’s rising power.
Obama has called it “one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century.” The letter to Ryan was also signed by Republican Representative George Holding and Democrat Ami Bera, the co-chairmen of the Congress Caucus on India and Indian Americans.