Saturday Night Live usually hits the Republicans with mocking skits Usually it s something about President Trump, Sarah Sanders or Sean Spicer Former Press Secretary Sean Spicer was brutalized on on the show.
He even remarked about how it stung when he was mocked mercilessly in skit after skit.
Alex Baldwin usually plays President Trump in skits that really are unfunny.
When it crosses the line to nasty , you ve lost your audience.
The president is not a fan tweeting last year that the impression just can t get any worse and calling the show unwatchable.
Maybe keeping politics out of the show would be a smart tactic but they just can t seem to do that What they did do last night was surprising They flipped the script to bash the DNC.
Shocker!
Tell us what you think about this mocking skit aimed at the key players in the Democrat Party:MELANIA TRUMP JUST ZINGED ALEC BALDWIN:MELANIA TRUMP never hesitates to call someone on the carpet for lying about her Alec Baldwin knows now that he can t mess with the First Lady!A spokesperson for the first lady fired back at the actor after he claimed that she loves my impersonation of President Donald Trump.
That is not true, which is why Mr. Baldwin has no actual names to go with his bizarre assertion, the spokeswoman told The Hill on Monday.The Saturday Night Live star had made the remarks on WYNC s The Brian Lehrer Show Monday.
Someone told me who s friends with someone in the White House, or formerly in the White House that Melania Trump loves SNL and she loves my impersonation, Baldwin said in the interview.The 59 year-old actor claimed the first lady told this person, very high up in the White House brass there, that, That s exactly what he s like.
Baldwin has been doing his impersonation of Trump for well over a year now on NBC s late-night sketch comedy show and won an Emmy Award in September for his portrayal of Trump.The president is not a fan, however, tweeting last year that the impression just can t get any worse and calling the show unwatchable.
in a tweet from December of last year:Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can't get any worse.
Sad Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016THE BIG LIE FROM BALDWIN: Apparently, Trump is horrified and beside himself that his wife actually thinks it s funny, Baldwin claimed Monday.The 30 Rock star was promoting his new book, You Can t Spell America Without Me: The Really Tremendous Inside Story of my Fantastic First Year as President Donald J. Trump.
(A So-Called Parody).
READ MORE: BPR