After a lifetime of passionate conservative activism and the creation of a very successful activist organization, it s heartbreaking that Schlafly died before she could see the man she risked so much for win the election.
Conservative icon Phyllis Schlafly died on Monday afternoon.
The Sweetheart of the Silent Majority passed away surrounded by family in her home in Ladue, Missouri just a short 10-minute drive from where she was born in St. Louis on August 15, 1924.Her death marks a palpable loss for the conservative movement which, just last month, celebrated the grassroots heroine s 92nd birthday.An accomplished lawyer, activist, author, and mother of six, Phyllis Schlafly has been described as the embodiment of the ideal American woman.As Sen. Jeff Sessions wrote in a statement submitted for the Congressional Record, dynamic, smart, beautiful, and articulate, Schlafly has fearlessly and tirelessly championed the American family and American values.
In 1963, the publisher of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat put it this way: Phyllis Schlafly stands for everything that has made America great and for those things which will keep it that way.
Schlafly enjoyed a rich family life.
Married in 1949, she and her late-husband, Fred, shared forty-four happy years together as well as six children, sixteen grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.Never one to see her femininity as antithetical to her career goals, Schlafly was awarded Illinois Mother of the Year only a few years before being named one of the 100 Most Important Women of the 20th Century by the Ladies Home Journal.Revered for her steadfast judgement, Schlafly was a guiding light to many conservatives, who looked to her to determine the political battles of the day.
Most recently, the godmother of the conservative movement led the charge against the Gang of Eight amnesty plan and President Obama s Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement.Unafraid to go toe-to-toe with some of the most powerful men in the nation, Schlafly was known for engaging in fights of principle all while projecting her irresistible charm, grace and wit.Schlafly understood feminism not as an effort to erase or wipe away the unique, distinguishing features of women, but rather to embrace and encourage all of the special and wondrous things about womanhood.
Whereas modern feminism teaches that a little girl is not so different from a little boy and that society should recognize no real difference between the two, Schlafly celebrated motherhood and femininity, and perceived the differences amongst the sexes as something to be extolled rather than repressed.A vocal proponent for empowering all Americans, Schlafly fought tirelessly against the social institutions that teach the absolutely false narrative that women are victims of the patriarchy and [that] it s up to new laws in the Constitution to remedy this second-class citizenship of women.
American women are the most fortunate class of people who ever lived on the face of the earth, Schlafly proclaimed in 2012.
We can do anything we want to do.
Schlafly s life was truly a testament to what she preached.
A child of Great Depression, she paid her way through college by putting in 48-hour work weeks as a gunner testing ammunition at the largest ammunition plant in the world, the St. Louis Ordnance Plant.
Schlafly tested .30 and .50 caliber ammunition for accuracy, penetration, velocity, and aircraft function before the government would accept the ammunition for the war effort during World War II.
Despite the rigors of a full-time job working the midnight to 8am shift at the ordnance plant, Schlafly still managed to finish her schooling in just three years, graduating from Washington University in St. Louis Phi Beta Kappa.She then went on to get her master s degree in Government from Harvard University in 1945, and her J.D.
from Washington University Law School in 1978.Schlafly was active in politics for more than one-quarter of all American history.She began volunteering for the Republican Party in 1945 when she worked as a campaign manager for Claude Bakewell, a successful Republican candidate for Congress.
Schlafly attended every single Republican National Convention since 1952 and has been at the center of nearly every major political battle since then.Beginning in the 1950s and 60s, Schlafly was instrumental in helping to launch the anti-Communist movement by forming 5,000 study groups throughout American homes to inform grassroots voters about the evils of Communism.As an activist, Schlafly seemed driven by her mission to educate [conservatives], train them, and stand up for them [and to] let the grassroots be heard.
An advocate for truth and the free dissemination of information, Schlafly spoke frequently of the need for news people who put out the truth instead of the packaged truth that the strategists have written.
Breitbart91-year-old Phyllis Schlafly was in the fight of her life against Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) supporters within her organization.
Schlafly appeared in court to fight to retain control of her legacy and the organization she founded over 40 years ago.Watch Phyllis bravely endorse Donald Trump at his St. Louis rally in March, 2016:https://youtu.be/2qfCQ4riXO0The grassroots heroine and conservative icon appeared in Madison County, Illinois to defend her organization, Eagle Forum, against those inside her organization who are attempting a coup.As Breitbart News has previously reported, the internal strife within Eagle Forum is connected to Schlafly s decision to endorse GOP frontrunner Donald Trump over Texas Senator Ted Cruz.
When explaining her support for Trump, Schlafly cited Trump s strong positions on promoting pro-America trade policies, curbing immigration, and defending national sovereignty issues which are very important to Schlafly.The suit was filed by Schlafly s own daughter, Anne Schlafly Cori, and four other Cruz supporters within Schlafly s organization: Eunie Smith, Cathie Adams, Carolyn McLarty, and Rosina Kovar.
Shirley Curry, the only other member of the so-called Gang of Six who is a plaintiff in this case, has not taken a public position on the presidential race.