The topic of climate change is somehow still being debated even though it s fact vs. fiction.
Climate change is very real, and when 97 percent of scientists agree, we should probably believe them.
Yet, there are still people who like to push the narrative that it is a myth.
People like former half-term Alaskan Governor Sarah Palin.Well, on Monday s broadcast of Jimmy Kimmel Live, Kimmel tore apart her denial in an absolutely brilliant way.
He showed a clip of her denying climate change where she said, Oh, well, if 97 percent of all scientists believe that man s activities are creating changes in the weather, who am I to question that?
This is when Kimmel was blunt and to the point: Exactly.
Who are you to question that?
Over the past few weeks Palin has been trying really hard to be relevant again and pushing the narrative that she knows better than scientists.
However, Kimmel shuts her down in one sentence.Kimmel stated: We ve had 15 of the 16 hottest years ever since 2001.
That s not an opinion.
It s a fact.
Adding: For some reason whether or not humans are contributing to this has become a left versus right issue.
The politicians debate it.
Our scientists don t. A huge majority of climate scientists say climate change is happening.
They say we re causing it and we need to do something about it before it has a terrible effect on all of us.
There s no debate about the greenhouse effect, just like there s no debate about gravity.
It someone throws a piano off the roof, I don t care what Sarah Palin tells you, get out of the way.
It s coming down on your head.
He then shows a video of actual climate scientists telling us that climate change is, in fact, very real, and why would they make something like this up.
Because seriously, what benefit does that do besides change human activity to respect the planet better?
Those telling us it s not real are the ones who have more to lose, because big polluters derive profit from destroying the earth.
They don t want us to believe climate change is actually happening, and they ve been paying big money to spread their false narrative so they can keep polluting.Kimmel means business, and simply states either you believe science or you don t. He also knows that he s going to get a massive amount of negative feedback by those who insist climate change isn t real because they re either paying to get that message out there or they re dumb enough to believe it.Climate change shouldn t be a left or right issue.
The earth and its climate are not up for debate it s science.
Denying it exists only makes one look like a fool.
Good on Kimmel for getting serious and getting real about this very real problem that we need to combat sooner rather than later before it s too late.Watch the clip here:Featured image via video screen capture