If anyone questions whether or not the Bundy-led right-wing terrorists who violently took over a federal building in Oregon are actually violent terrorists, they need only ask Capt.
Moroni, one of the reported more than 100 armed men who seized control of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge over the weekend.
Bundy s people demand nothing short of complete surrender of the land to the conservative terrorist cell, a move they allegedly made in support of two felons and arsonists who don t want their brand of help.
While some like ABC and CNN seek to downplay this action, the rest of us see it for what it is: the Stupid Part of America has finally mobilized its militia and is willing to kill or be killed to achieve their goals.
Though early estimates have said 100 to 150 men were holding down the newly-established terrorist base, OPB s Amanda Peacher says that only a few dozen men are occupying the federal building.
According to Peacher, federal employees were warned to steer clear of the wildlife refuge in a memo that reads: Our top concern is employee safety.
All employees are accounted for, and the Refuge will be closed until further notice.
Employees of all land management agencies in the area will operate from alternate worksites, telework, or administrative leave.
No matter how many people are there, one man to whom Peacher spoke revealed that not only are the insurrectionists willing to use violence to accomplish their goals but they are ready and willing to die in the process.
A man who would identify himself only as Capt.
Moroni told Peacher I didn t come here to shoot, I came here to die.
A series of tweets from Peacher detailed not only the chilling admission, but showed that the Bundy Army is already establishing supply lines to fuel their mini-revolution: Since an unarmed demonstration by African-American protesters over the unjust killing of one or more black men attracts a heavily-armed force, surely law enforcement is responding heavily to this very real terrorist threat.
There were no law enforcement agents visible in the area around the refuge.
A man with a goatee beard and wraparound sunglasses stood guard, armed with an AR-15-style rifle, and refused entry to the federally owned facility, writes The Guardian s Jason Wilson.
One of the occupiers, who declined to give his name or affiliation, citing operational security, confirmed that the heavily-armed men would be camping on the site because it s public land and they view themselves to be The People.
It s time we stop coddling right-wing extremists.
If they want a war, let s give them one.
It will be short-lived.Featured image via Twitter