Donald Trump has already been giving hints that he might back out of debating Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton over claims that the political system is rigged against him even though we all know it s really because he s terrified of her.
While most of us think Trump s attempts to blame outside forces for his incompetence are pathetic, some of his most prominent minions are coming to his rescue to further spread his conspiracy theories.Roger Stone, one of Trump s closest confidantes, spoke to Breitbart bigot Milo Yiannopoulos recently and warned that there would be a bloodbath if Trump didn t win the election.
After several recent polls have suggested that Clinton is pulling ahead of Trump, Stone was more than happy to declare voter fraud.
Stone said: I think we have widespread voter fraud, but the first thing that Trump needs to do is begin talking about it constantly.
If there s voter fraud, this election will be illegitimate, the election of the winner will be illegitimate, we will have a constitutional crisis, widespread civil disobedience, and the government will no longer be the government.
Of course, Yiannopoulos was right on board with this theory and the men had some horrific advice for Trump continue to be as offensive as possible and push those buttons so that he can gain enough rabid support from racists and bigots to make up for any supposed rigging that might happen.
Stone also suggested that Trump should vow to shut the government down if Clinton was elected in November.
As if this interview couldn t get any crazier, delusional Stone issued this warning: If you can t have an honest election, nothing else counts.
I think he s gotta put them on notice that their inauguration will be a rhetorical, and when I mean civil disobedience, not violence, but it will be a bloodbath We will not stand for it.
Trump s allies are just like him they love to encourage violence and are incapable of acting like adults when things don t go their way.
The amount of stupidity going on in this interview is unfathomable.
You can listen to it below:Previously, Roger Stone had encouraged Trump supporters to go stalk and visit anti-Trump delegates in their hotel rooms if they tried to take the GOP nomination away from Trump.Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images