Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson has been seen as an alternative to Donald Trump for many Republicans and other right-leaning types who can t stomach their own party s nominee and don t want to vote for Hillary Clinton.
However, that prospect likely just went right out the window for many people after a Thursday morning question that revealed Johnson s ignorance when it comes to foreign policy.Johnson appeared on MSNBC s Morning Joe, and when asked about what he would do about Aleppo, he actually asked, What is Aleppo?
Veteran columnist and frequent Morning Joe panelist Mike Barnacle looked at Johnson with the rest of the panel, visibly stunned.
He responded, You re kidding.
Johnson said, with a blank stare, No.
In case anyone here is as clueless as Gary Johnson is on this matter, Aleppo is the largest city in Syria, and the heart of the refugee crisis.
It s the source of all of those heartbreaking images of children of war that have been ripping all of our hearts out.
It s where the battle for Syria is being waged.
It s essentially the epicenter of the war that ISIS is waging.
To have a person who wishes to be President of the United States and Commander-in-Chief of our military not know these basic facts is not only breathtaking in its ignorance, but also disqualifying.In other words, just like Donald Trump, Gary Johnson is far too ignorant of world affairs to be considered for the position he seeks.
Out of the viable candidates for the White House, the only person who has the knowledge of world affairs and policy issues to actually be able to effectively do the job is Hillary Clinton.
Whatever one might think of her as a person, or of her policy positions, she is qualified.
No one else presented to us is.Watch the exchange with Johnson below:.
@mikebarnicle: What would you do, if you were elected, about Aleppo?
@GovGaryJohnson: And what is Aleppo?
https://t.co/ZbqO5RAEsk Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) September 8, 2016Featured image via video screen capture