Communist Mayor Bill de Blasio just can t help himself.
He had to abandon NYC to go to Hamburg, Germany where his anarchist commie buddies are making a fuss it is what globalist commies do.
The problem is that New York City is a mess but globalists like de Blasio don t have time for governing when global policy is in jeopardy The New York Post reported:Mayor Bill de Blasio on Thursday skipped an NYPD swearing-in ceremony made somber by this week s assassination of a cop then hours later revealed he was busy preparing to jet off on a surprise trip to join leftist protesters at the G-20 summit in Germany.Hizzoner s overseas jaunt was kept under wraps until just 90 minutes before he took off from Newark Airport.
A last-minute announcement said he will attend several events surrounding the G-20 Summit, including Saturday s Hamburg Zeigt Haltung [Hamburg Shows Attitude] rally.
De Blasio will be keynote speaker for the loony anti-capitalists.
No word on whether he will throw the ceremonial first brick through a bank window.Meanwhile, the NYPD reels from Miosotis Familia s assassination, the subway system rapidly disintegrates, and NYC in general continues to go to the dogs with trash strewn on streets At least de Blasio, who was born Warren Wilhelm Jr., can get in touch with his German roots.Funny irony WARREN WILHELM, JR OR BILL DE BLASIO?
We know that his early political career was Marxist, and not just in an academic sense.
He raised money for the Sandinistas, visited Nicaragua to align himself with the tyrants, and worked to undermine the efforts of the Reagan administration.
No wonder he was endorsed by George Soros.
Curiously, he decided to cover up his radical past: There is no mention of his extremist associations on his website.
Quite frankly, Bill de Blasio has a problem with the truth.
He was born Warren Wilhelm, Jr. in 1961.
When he graduated from New York University in 1983 (where he was heavily involved in leftist causes), he changed his name to Warren de Blasio-Wilhelm.
In 2002, he changed his name again, settling on Bill de Blasio.
The only reason we know this is because the media put the spotlight on him, forcing the issue.De Blasio s character was impugned again when it was learned that he accepted over $50,000 from a group of slumlords.
What made this so outrageous was de Blasio s past denunciations of these same men while serving as public advocate.Just recently, when The New York Times confronted de Blasio about his love for democratic socialism, expressed in 1990, he said, That s not a quote from me; that s someone s notes.
But in fact those were his words.
When the Times told him it has the proof, he brazenly said, It doesn t matter.
Please read more on de Blasio s lies here: Newsmax