Worst governor in the United States Paul LePage (R-Of Course) has said and done some truly reprehensible things during his time in office, but the latest bit of toxic sludge spewed from his mouth might finally be his downfall.On Wednesday night, during a town hall meeting, Maine s governor went so deeply racist that even members of his own party acknowledged it was one of the most offensive statements ever to come out of LePage s mouth and that s saying something.While discussing Maine s drug problem, LePage floated the idea that it was out of state black people who were getting (white) Mainers hooked on heroin.
It got worse from there.
These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty these types of guys they come from Connecticut and New York, they come up here, they sell their heroin, they go back home, LePage told a large crowd.
Incidentally, half the time they impregnate a young, white girl before they leave, which is a real sad thing because then we have another issue we have to deal with down the road.
D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty In a shameless attempt to spin it as not overtly racist, LePage s long-suffering communication director, Peter Steele, said that this wasn t about race.
He then gave the following word salad defense.
The governor is not making comments about race.
Race is irrelevant, Steele said.
What is relevant is the cost to state taxpayers for welfare and the emotional costs for these kids who are born as a result of involvement with drug traffickers.
His heart goes out to these kids because he had a difficult childhood, too.
We need to stop the drug traffickers from coming into our state.
There are, might I say, just a few questions left unanswered here.
Why did he use names like D-Money to refer to the types of guys who come into the state from Connecticut and New York?
Doesn t that sound a lot like the kind of gangsta name a white conservative from Maine might come up with if they were brainstorming the backstory of a black drug dealer?
Why did he specifically mention young, white girls when describing the kind of girls D-Money likes to impregnate?
Does he have any proof that half the time out of state drug dealers of any race impregnate Maine s young women?But the biggest question is Does he really think the entire state of Maine is too stupid to notice this for what it is?
An ugly racist rant that is meant to stoke old racial fears of black men stealing white women?Democrats have long complained about LePage, but even Republicans are finding it increasingly hard to ignore his egregious behavior.
Some have even created a website called Get Right Maine, which is an attempt to get LePage booted out of office and give the Republican Party a chance to save their image from the damage LePage has done.For LePage, his racist rant couldn t come at a more vulnerable time politically.
Just days before he decided to introduce his imaginary black stereotype D-Money to voters, Maine s state lawmakers were discussing whether they should kick LePage from office or just censure him.House Majority Leader Jeff McCabe, D-Skowhegan, said LePage created this situation with his own actions.
We join other Mainers around the state and share their anger and frustration, said McCabe.
Democrats are focused on the most pressing issues before us.
We are committed to addressing the drug crisis, growing access to broadband as well as helping our struggling mills.
The governor has isolated himself and we are not playing his games.
He just handed his haters which is, roughly, just about everyone he works with a ton of ammunition.
Ever his own worst enemy, LePage countered by throwing a massive tantrum, accusing his own party of conspiring against him and vowed to never work with Democrats again.The sooner LePage gets booted from office, the better.Feature image via Flickr