Barring something completely unforeseen, Donald Trump will be our new President in just a few weeks.
That means that all personal liberties could fly right out the window, except for one: the liberty to discriminate based on who people love.
Trump and the new Congress haven t even taken office yet and the legislative hatred has already begun.Ted Cruz, who s never met a gay person or a woman who didn t make him feel self-righteous, is expected to reintroduce the First Amendment Defense Act (FADA), which, despite its completely inoffensive name, is all about allowing bigots to freely discriminate.
Trump is expected to sign it.In the text, the bill says that businesses can refuse service based on one of two beliefs, and both are ridiculous: that marriage is or should be recognized as the union of one man and one woman or sexual relations are properly reserved to such a marriage.
As for the second one, well, unless a couple is entering an establishment demanding space to specifically have sex, it doesn t seem there s ever a reason to declare that one.
As for the first, marriage is what the law says it is, and the law says that marriage is between two consenting adults who get married.
Okay, that s not the legal definition, but the Supreme Court, when Antonin Scalia was still alive, said that defining marriage is unconstitutional.The CEO of Equality Texas agrees that the proposed law shouldn t be a law at all.
The legislation that Senator Cruz is proposing specifically elevates two narrow interpretations above any other religious practice, Chuck Smith, CEO of Equality Texas said.
The bill is titled the First Amendment Defense Act, but in reality it is an unconstitutional attempt to totally redefine what the first amendment protects.
Source: KXANIt would also put the Federal Government in the weird position of suing itself.
The FADA would allow businesses to sue if the government wouldn t let them discriminate.
The U.S. Attorney General would be required to defend the businesses against the government.Trump will likely sign the bill, at least according to his campaign s website: If I am elected president and Congress passes the First Amendment Defense Act, I will sign it to protect the deeply held religious beliefs of Catholics and the beliefs of Americans of all faiths.
Here s the video:The other bad news is that by the time this reaches the Supreme Court, we will likely have another conservative justice.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images