It s hard to believe that business mogul Donald Trump is not only in the presidential race, but actually LEADING the Republican candidates.
Apparently he never saw the White House in his future, either but clearly something has changed within the last few decades that inspired him to go for it.It just so happens that Trump originally had zero desire to run for President of The United States.
Thanks to footage from an hour-long interview with Rona Barrett in 1980, it s been revealed that Trump didn t want to run because he thought it would be a mean life.
Ironic, yes but the real kicker comes after that, when Trump says: I also see it that somebody with strong views, and somebody with the kind of views that are maybe a little bit unpopular which may be right but may be unpopular wouldn t necessarily have a chance of getting elected against somebody with no great brain but a big smile.
This clip was never aired, and it s certainly worth watching now for the ridiculous irony of it all:My, how things have changed over the last 36 years.
If only Trump had stayed in this frame of mind throughout his life.For someone who didn t want to live a mean life , Trump has certainly fulfilled that prophecy and he hasn t even been elected!
Trump has continued to spit out the most vile, racist, offensive rhetoric a presidential campaign has ever seen, and single-handedly continues to divide America even more.
He has attacked immigrants, Muslims, women basically any minority and encouraged a terrifying brand of hate to wash over America as his supporters become increasingly violent and angry.Trump has even divided the Republican party, and his vulgar tactics continue to threaten its destruction.
He s proven that he will go after anyone who threatens his ego, whether it s the President, fellow candidate, a politician, news anchor, etc.
He s a bully, a racist, a misogynist and a liar who cannot be trusted with the future of America.
He s probably become much of what his younger self didn t want to be, because without a doubt he is the candidate with no great brain but a big smile.
Featured image is a screenshot