We tried to warn you.From the summer of 2016 onward, Democrats tried to warn the American public that Russia found a useful idiot in Donald Trump.
He was their puppet, their strongman, their way into the American political scene.
No one wanted to believe it.When the DNC and DSCC (along with various lawmakers including Nancy Pelosi) were hacked, we said it was Russia.
The intelligence agencies agreed.
No one wanted to believe it, and the mainstream media brushed it aside.When the Podesta emails were hacked and dumped onto the internet for all to read, it was traced back to Russian thugs.
No one wanted to believe it.
They said WikiLeaks and their leader, Julian Assange, were doing their due diligence for a more transparent government.When Hillary Clinton, at the last presidential debate, told 66 million viewers that the Russian federation was working tooth and nail to help Donald Trump, we brushed it off, and accused the Democrats of being sore losers, conspiracy riddled, and scared of losing an election (which we did).Watch Clinton hit it home.
If only we listened:Hillary dropped this exact same info about Russia in front of 66 million viewers in October.
But I guess no one listened because emails pic.twitter.com/HCe7oqfknv Ess (@ScottyLiterati) December 10, 2016Now, the CIA agrees Russia played a major role in helping Donald Trump win the presidency.
They meddled in our sacred, democratic elections to help a would-be, two-bit dictator wannabe rise to power.A report found:As the summer turned to fall, Russian hackers turned almost all their attention to the Democrats.
Virtually all the emails they released publically were potentially damaging to Clinton and the Democrats, the official told Reuters.
That was a major clue to their intent, the official said.
If all they wanted to do was discredit our political system, why publicize the failings of just one party, especially when they have a target like Trump?
Trump has nominated a Secretary of State candidate, Rex Tillerman, who is a friend to Russia and Vladimir Putin.
This is not a coincidence, nor is it a surprise.
He has nominated a would-be National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, an ally to Russia and spreader of fake news.
This also is not a coincidence.
This is the reality of the United States, post-Obama.No, this was not some 400 pound guy in his parent s basement, as Trump would suggest.
This is a world power that has their hands in several world crises Syria, Ukraine and so forth.So while Republicans and indeed left-wing defectors from the Democratic Party hyper focused on the Clinton/Podesta emails, Trump was on the cusp of a victory thanks in part to Russian hackings which may even extend to voter hackings in November.The Russians may or may not have physically intervened on November 8th to help Donald Trump win.
However, it has now been proven by 17 security agencies, both private and governmental that Russia played a key role in souring the public s perception about Clinton and the Democrats.It wasn t just because of hackings.
The Kremlin paid and trained trolls to flood the internet with fake news and multiple Twitter/Facebook accounts to create a world of hate for Hillary Clinton, a world of praise for Donald Trump.Luckily, Republicans like John McCain and Lindsey Graham are starting to see the big picture, but its not enough.
They, along with their conservative colleagues and liberal adversaries, were A-OK with smearing Clinton with Russian propagated lies if it meant having an R in the White House.When it comes to Donald Trump and Russia, we Democrats hate to say it, but, we told you so.
American democracy has been sold to the highest bidder, and Russia paid the highest price.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images