It pays well to be a failed right-wing candidate.
Sarah Palin, who served a half term as Alaska s governor and made a halfhearted attempt to become vice president next to John McCain, has profited quite nicely from her place in the conservative universe.After losing the 2008 election, Palin quickly quit being governor of Alaska and became a pundit on Fox News Channel.
She signed a book deal and pumped out several tomes (her most recent book is Sweet Freedom: A Devotional), likely ghostwritten by writers who will be forever anonymous, and set up a political action committee, SarahPAC, that went to work buying thousands of her own books helping to send them up the bestseller charts.While her deal with Fox was ended by the network (after they built her a custom studio at her Alaska home, she rarely appeared on the network outside of goofy appearances on Sean Hannity s program), she ran an online subscription TV service for a while before that abruptly ended, and now appears on the fringe One America News Network.
That network has promoted itself as the conservative alternative to Fox News, but does not have mainstream satelitte or cable tv coverage.In 2011 Palin purchased a mansion in Arizona for $1.695 million, and is now selling the property for $2.499 million.
She ll make a profit on the home, thanks in part to the Obama agenda she opposed improving the economy and the real estate market.While Palin styles herself as just a hockey mom who loves her country, the 8,000 square foot home is not exactly a humble home on the range.The nearly 8,000-square-foot home was built in 2001.
Some of its features include high ceilings, chandeliers and wrought-iron railings.The home also boasts a media room/theater, a wine cellar, six bedrooms and six and a half bathrooms.
One of the two master suites includes a rooftop deck.The outdoor area features a built-in grill station, a fire pit, a pool, a spa, a water-saving synthetic lawn and a lighted sports court complete the more than four-acre equestrian-zoned grounds.
There s also a six-car garage.The home is inside a gated community, so not just anyone can come inside to pal around with the Palins.Here s how the realtor sells the property to prospective buyers:This pristine gated estate is sure to impress as you enter from a wraparound drive to access the private gated entrance.
Masterfully designed & built this 7971 sqft home showcases 6 bedrooms, 6.5 baths, a 6 car garage & breathtaking mountain views from virtually every room!
Quality & care echoes throughout, with beautiful finishes, fixtures, fireplaces, chandeliers, soaring ceilings, media theater, wine cellar & more.
Craftsmanship extends to the resort themed backyard with fireplaces off the covered patio, veranda & rooftop deck off of the master suite.
Luxury abounds with a built-in grill station, fire-pit, sparkling blue pool, spa, synthetic grass & a lighted sports court.
This 4.9 acre equestrian estate offers opulence at it s finest.Here are some photos of Palin s mansion, are you in the market?
Featured image via Wikimedia CommonsPhotos via Keller Williams Realty