Nothing is more repulsive than PAC representing Gov.
John Kasich, who is polling at almost negative numbers, working to take down the GOP frontrunner.
Doesn t it seem kinda futile to attempt a take down of the GOP frontrunner if their candidate has had several opportunities to do so himself on the debate stage and failed miserably?
Watch for a YUGE backlash against the GOP establishment in 5 4 3 2 1 One has to wonder if the GOP establishment has anything to do with this coordinated effort to take out Trump?
And if they do, is this really about Kasich or is it about keeping Rubio and Bush in the game?
Donald Trump s presidential campaign warned the Republican Party on Tuesday about donors pooling funds for attack ads, saying Republicans must treat him fairly if they want to keep him from launching an independent bid.Trump lawyer Michael Cohen told CNN that if Republican donors backing different presidential candidates come together for an anti-Trump advertising campaign, it would be a bad, bad decision.
The Super PAC planning the attack is New Day for America, which is supporting Ohio Governor John Kasich s presidential bid.
Its spokesman, Matt David, said on Sunday that 10 new donors had pledged money since Thursday when Politico reported the group s plans to attack Trump in New Hampshire.Trump signed a pledge to run as a Republican in the 2016 presidential election, but Cohen indicated the agreement would be invalid if Republicans target the billionaire real estate mogul.
If they treat him fairly, he will honor the pledge because he s an honorable guy.
If they break that agreement with him, as they say woe be on them,' Cohen told CNN.Cohen said the Republican Party may claim it has no control over Super PAC activities.
But he insisted Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairman Reince Priebus has an obligation to treat Trump fairly.
If they don t, this will be a very, very bad thing for the Republican Party, Cohen said.RNC representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Trump is leading in polls of Republican primary voters both nationwide and in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire.
His numbers have risen despite criticism about his business record and backlash from his contentious statements about immigrants and Muslims, among other things.Via: Reuters