As Republicans grow anxious and weary about an impending Trump general election candidacy, Democrats are pouncing on every opportunity to take back an unlikely chamber: the House of Representatives.In 2010, Democrats suffered their biggest defeat one not seen since the World War II era and subsequently lost seats (after gaining in 2012) in the 2014 election.
In total, between 2010 and 2014, Republicans picked up a net 68 seats, cementing a strong lock on power.But Democrats are hoping to turn the tables in November, and their biggest weapon is Donald Trump.An analysis from Real Clear Politics shows that while Democrats have a very good chance of taking back the Senate, winning back the House would be a very steep climb, but it is possible.
All Democrats have to do is show up to vote, and link every Republican running for Congress to frontrunner (and now candidate) Donald Trump.
Oh, and Democrats need to vote down ticket if they want to see Congress turn blue:If current trends continue, however, Democrats may have an opportunity to win substantial gains down the ballot.
In the most recent RCP average, Clinton leads Trump by 6.4 percentage points.
That lead could increase, decrease or disappear before November, but it s a positive sign at this point for House Democrats.
Data from recent elections indicate that very few voters split their tickets, voting for one party in the presidential race and another down the ballot.
If this pattern holds, presidential performance will be intricately linked to how House candidates will fare this November.In other words, if Clinton maintains her landslide lead (yes, landslide), that means the House could finally be free of the wrath of the Freedom Caucus and Paul Ryan.Republicans currently hold 26 seats in districts Obama won in 2012 and 28 in which Romney won by less than 53 percent.
Real Clear Politics analysts contend that if Clinton could pick up all 26 from Obama s districts and just half of Romney s (due to down-ticket voting), the chances of Democrats taking back the House become inevitable.Donald Trump may be the best thing to happen to Democrats.
But a coalition of liberals, progressives, moderates, independents and center-right Democrats will be needed at the booths if this is to become a reality.Should Sanders or Clinton clinch the nomination, the prospect of a blue White House, House and Senate, and Supreme Court could be a reality.With the media constantly propping up Trump to be this god-like figure, it s up to Democrats to keep the truth out there for the electorate: that there is virtually no difference between the de facto leader of the GOP and House Republicans, who time and time again have threatened women s health, immigrant families, and the healthcare of millions of low-income Americans.Democrats have a solid chance.
It s time they get out and vote an deliver on the promise to keep progress moving forward.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images