After North Carolina passed their new bigoted anti-LGBT law and Governor Pat McCrory signed it into law, he alongside the state has received a massive amount of backlash against the legislated hate.Taking this backlash into account, McCrory released a statement: After listening to people s feedback for the past several weeks on this issue, I have come to the conclusion that there is a great deal of misinformation, misinterpretation, confusion, a lot of passion and frankly, selective outrage and hypocrisy, especially against the great state of North Carolina.
Based upon this feedback, I am taking action to affirm and improve the state s commitment to privacy and equality.
Which basically is a non-answer and he s just pissed people are pissed at himself and his state.
What exactly does his executive order include?
A whole lotta nothing.Here s what McCrory s executive order states: Common sense gender-specific ??
What does that even mean.
He s literally taking his hand, raising it up, and slapping the transgender community in the f*cking face with that load of bullshit.
And he s still letting private businesses be bigoted jerks if they so choose, even if they serve the public at large 14th amendment be damned.
Then as an ultimate cop-out he s leaving anything to actually be done about the hate to local governments.
The only thing that maaaybe could be considered decent and humane is to expand the employment policy and seek legislation.
However, he s seeking legislation in the same damn state house that wrote the legalized discrimination in the first place.
So, all in all this executive order is a big ole piece of useless horseshit.McCrory honestly doesn t seem to see the error his state legislator s ways or his own.
He s, in essence, doubling down on anti-LGBT hate, and not doing a damn thing about the law itself.
What needs to happen is for the law to be entirely repealed and protections enacted not for religious zealots, but for LGBT individuals.North Carolina s governor ought to be ashamed of himself.
This is nothing but just another giant slap in the face to the LGBT community.Featured Image by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images