On Thursday, Bernie Sanders wife Jane Sanders didn t hesitate to defend her husband s rival, Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton after she became aware that a supporter had disrespected the former Secretary of State.In an interview with CNN s Chris Cuomo, Jane completely dismissed a sexist comment that was made at a Sanders campaign event just the day before.
Cuomo asked Jane what she thought about Sanders campaign surrogate and healthcare activist Paul Song making complaints about corporate democratic wh*res who wanted to change the healthcare system.
Song s direct comments were: Medicare-for-all will never happen if we continue to elect corporate Democratic wh*res who are beholden to big pharma and the private insurance industry instead of us.
Jane handled those comments with the same amount of class we ve seen from her husband during his entire campaign.
Cuomo pressed Jane on Song s remarks, asking the Democratic candidate s wife: That was translated as being code for something about Hillary Clinton.
Do you believe that, and what do you want to say about that choice of words?
Basically, Jane didn t give Song s comments the time of day.
She beautifully dismissed and condemned them at the same time, stating: I m sorry, I didn t hear it at all.
Strange choice of words.
And I can t imagine anybody was speaking about Secretary Clinton that way.
I don t know who said that.
She added, All the campaigns really need to take some responsibility for what surrogates say.
You can watch Jane masterfully shut down Song s comment below:Bernie also joined his wife in her criticism of Song s remarks on Thursday.
Bernie, who has throughout the length of his campaign insisted on keeping to the issues and not engaging in the sort of childish in-party fighting that the GOP candidates have participated in, tweeted, Dr. Song s comment was inappropriate and insensitive.
There s no room for language like that in our political discourse.
After receiving backlash to his comments, Song apologized for his remarks, taking responsibility for their insensitive nature:Later, Song stated that his comments had not been in reference to Hillary Clinton, but to Democrats in Congress.
Featured image via Spencer Platt / Getty Images