While Republicans continue to wage war on the poor demonizing them for daring to get government help and drug testing them (even though only 2 percent of welfare recipients are users) Democrats are turning the tables and waging war against the rich people receiving welfare (also known as tax deductions to the GOP).Representative Gwen Moore, a Democrat from Wisconsin, who is sick and tired, and sick and tired of being sick and tired, of the criminalization of poverty, has a solution to the stigma: drug test the rich people who receive tax deductions of $150,000 or more.
Only individuals who make over $1 million could qualify for such a deduction meaning this bill will target exclusively the 1 percent.The bill, rightfully titled the Top 1% Accountability Act, would require these deduction seekers to submit a drug test proving they aren t using.
If they choose not to comply, they can only use the standard deduction of $6,300.Moore, who has been a progressive voice against Republican stigmatization, said she was inspired by the poverty-shaming of House Speaker Paul Ryan, a notorious anti-welfare crusader: When he stood in front of a drug treatment center and rolled out his anti-poverty initiative, pushing this narrative that poor people are drug addicts, that was the last straw.
Republicans have been successful in pushing this notion that poor people who receive welfare benefits are responsible for bankrupting the country.
Less than one percent of the nation s budget goes to these benefits, but Republicans don t care.
As long as they can blame the lazy minorities and get whites riled up, they re successful.
Moore, however, is dropping some truth: The benefits we give to poor people are so limited compared to what we give to the top 1 percent.
We spend $81 billion on everything everything that you could consider a poverty program We might really save some money by drug-testing folks on Wall Street, who might have a little cocaine before they get their deal done.
Republicans haven t commented on Moore s bill, and for obvious reasons.
The logic surrounding it contradicts their racist, classist agenda.Democrats are fed up, and they are fighting back.
Poor people are fed up.
Black and minority Americans are fed up.
Republicans will have one hell of a wakeup call in November, and they will have to answer for their sins.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images