The body of Ku Klux Klan Imperial Wizard Frank Ancona, who disappeared from his home under extremely suspicious circumstances, was located the bank of a Missouri river Saturday.
According to Washington County Sheriff Zach Jacobsen, Ancona s vehicle, which could be identified by the Trump bumper sticker according to his son, was located on Friday, but there was no trace of Ancona.
Deputies responded on Friday and located the vehicle and secured it, Jacobsen told the Daily Journal.
We left deputies at the scene and secured it overnight due to the loss of light.
On Saturday morning we conducted a search of the area by foot by member of the Potosi Fire Protection District and the sheriff s office.
We didn t locate much of anything in the woods, but we did locate evidence of a burn pile near Mr. Ancona s vehicle.
The body was found by a woman who was taking her family fishing on the bank of Big River.
We processed the scene and the body was transported by the Washington County Coroner s office for an autopsy to determine a cause of death, Jacobsen says.
The body was positively identified as Frank Ancona and his family was notified.
The details of the investigation that have been made public are interesting to say the least.According to Malissa Ancona, Frank s wife, he was last seen Wednesday morning when he was leaving for work.
She claims that his employer had sent him across the state to deliver an auto part, but his workplace says he was not asked to do that.
According to police, Malissa had initially been unreachable, so they stopped by her home where the found her with her son, Frank s stepson.
Officers say they found a safe that someone had smashed with a crowbar.
The contents had been removed, but Leadwood Police Chief William Dickey says police do not believe it was a burglary.Malissa had also posted on Facebook she was looking for a roommate at around the time Frank had left for work.
She claims that he said he was filing for divorce when he returned home and would need help paying the bills.Interestingly, all firearms had been removed from the home Malissa says Frank took them with him except one, the gun he keeps on him at almost all times.
Right now no one has been charged in his death, but that may change tomorrow, Jacobson says.While this is certainly a tough time for the Klan leader s family, the Internet is responding as though Black Santa left them a gigantic Black History Month present.
In public posts on Ancona s son s timeline, seemingly all the people who have watched Ancona s beliefs hurt people over the years came together to celebrate the slight downtick in the number of fascists in the world: Ancona will always be remembered by the world as the man who threatened to gun protesters down in the streets after Michael Brown was murdered by Ferguson, Missouri police officer Darren Wilson.Featured image via screengrab