Another day, another Hillary Clinton scandal has died in flames.
Just this year alone, three scandals Benghazi, her private email, and now this have proven to be nothing more than a vast right-wing conspiracy.Recently, the Republican Party has been in an absolute tailspin as their presidential candidate, Donald Trump, crashes and burns in a wreckage of insanity.
So what do they do?
Why, manufacture another Hillary Clinton scandal to distract from their recklessness.In a recent email dump, questions were raised (which were then inflamed by Donald Trump) regarding the idea that Clinton used her power as Secretary of State to influence her foundation.
One email showed the foundation s executive, Doug Band, requesting a meeting between a wealthy donor and an ambassador, and asking for Clinton s aides to find a new job for an associate with the foundation.The completely generic and minuscule emails, which were part of thousands upon thousands released, were completely innocent.
But that didn t stop the Republicans from labeling it as pay for Play.
Well the State Department has shut down those asinine, distracting talking points by pointing out that there is no evidence to suggest Clinton, in any way, used her power to accumulate favors for her foundation.
State Department spokeswoman Elizabeth Trudeau told reporters:The State Department is not aware of any actions that were influenced by the Clinton Foundation.
The Department does not believe it was inappropriate for Mr.
Band or any other individual to recommend someone be considered for employment at the State Department.
We also do not believe it s inappropriate for someone recommended in this manner to be potentially hired insofar as they meet the necessary qualifications for the job.The Clinton Foundation and the State Department made it clear that the individual that Band wanted hired (whose name was redacted) was not an employee of the foundation.
And even if they were, Trudeau pointed out, that wouldn t necessarily be harbinger for employment, should they have the qualifications to be president.And the ambassador who wanted to meet with a donor?
Such thing is commonplace:State Department officials are regularly in touch with a range of outside individuals and organizations, including non-profits, NGOs, think tanks and others.Even though such circumstances are commonplace and have historical precedence, Republicans are still hoping their phony, ill-conceived scandal will distract from the disaster that is their presidential candidate.Now Republicans are also toying with the idea she had a DNC staffer killed.
Get ready for another season of Clinton scandals.
Instead of focusing on the issues (which they are so good a evading) they will be doing another round of character assassination.Featured image via Bill Pugliano/Getty Images