Trump mouthpiece Kayleigh McEnany just made the most asinine claim about Mike Pence and got roundly hammered for it on CNN.Unless you ve been hiding in cave over the last decade, you know that Mike Pence is a hateful bigot who thinks gay people are an abomination.
He not only tried to legalize discrimination against gay people in Indiana, he supports inhumane conversion therapy and took money away from HIV funding to fund that right-wing bullshit cure instead.Angela Rye kicked off the panel discussion about Mike Pence being booed by the audience prior to a performance of Hamilton on Broadway.
The cast of the play then delivered a thoughtful message to Pence expressing their hope that he learned something.Rye explained that the lead actor is a gay man who is HIV-positive and could not imagine what he felt when the biggest anti-gay bigot in the country walked in to watch the performance.McEnany responded by attacking the Hollywood elite, the media elite, the political elite and whined about people calling Trump a racist and homophobe even though Trump is a racist and homophobe.Lemon finally shut her up by getting the discussion back on point, asking her to imagine how gay people feel when Mike Pence discriminates against them.
He then pointed out that the Hamilton cast was expressing their hope that Pence will treat the LGBT community like human beings.
Can you imagine how that feels when Mike Pence, who has rallied and railed against gay people, and tried to shoot down and block gay legislation?
Lemon asked.
He s saying, I m giving you a chance to give me a chance, he added in reference to the star of Hamilton.
But then McEnany opened her mouth her spewed a monster lie.
Mike Pence loves all people, she claimed, drawing an emphatic rebuke from Lemon, who is also openly gay.
Mike Pence does not love gay people.
His record shows that he does not love gay people.
Here s the video via YouTube.Make no mistake, Mike Pence is an anti-gay bigot and he will stop at nothing to try and roll back gay rights to the point where they have no rights left.
He is hateful and divisive and does not deserve the office he is about to occupy.Featured Image: Screenshot