We hear a lot of talk about making America great again coming from Donald Trump and his massively stupid acolytes but what about our lawns?
Can they be great again?
That s what one brave landscaper in Florida apparently decided to find out when he saw a Trump sign in someone s yard.
Unfortunately, curiosity can sometimes get the cat banned from working in a neighborhood.
It all began with a panicked Facebook post from the sign s Trump-supporting owner: Look at what our landscapers did ..
I understand people may not like Trump but I have my rights to put this sign in my yard and it was no accident see for yourself!
The video shows a 19-year-old worker riding a mower at high speed directly into Josh Boesch s Donald Trump campaign sign one of many in the Citrus Chase subdivision resident s yard.
He then hops off his mower, appears to throw the sign back in front of the mower, and run it over again.
Then, he backs up and appears to run it over again.For those who are concerned, the sign lived through the apparent assault, but Boesch is not happy.
The resident told news station WKMG that after noticing his mangled sign, he watched six hours of video to figure out who did the thing in his yard.Boesch says his six-hour investigation into the incident reveals that his lawn had already been mowed, though he admits it could have been an accident a sentiment echoed by Fred Heldrith, the owner of the landscaping company.Heldreth says his employee did not typically work in the neighborhood, and that he was simply inexperienced with that type of mower.
If he wanted to destroy the sign, he would have destroyed the sign, he pointed out.
The sign is still there.
Indeed, it is still there.
But should it have been there in the first place?
WKMG reports that Boesch s show of support for Trump was a violation of the Citrus Chase Homeowner s Association guidelines, which prohibit display of campaign signs more than 90 days before an election.
Additionally, they report that residents typically remove their signs before landscapers arrive and put them back up later a courtesy with which the Trump supporter could not be bothered.
It s been there for like since January, Boesch told the station as he explained why he did not do what his neighbors do to make things easier for landscapers, and it s never been hit by the lawnscapers.
They either always mow around it or they use their edger because a lot of them have respect.
This, of course, is an ironic statement coming from someone who refuses to show workers the same respect his neighbors do, even forcing them to stop mowing to edge around the campaign signs that have been occupying the space in violation of HOA policies since January.Accident or not, the man responsible for Moweerghazi will not be back.
In response to the incident, Citrus Chase assured Boesch: The guy has been removed from the crew, he will not be allowed in our development any more.
What do you think?
Was this an accident, or was the landscaper simply trying to make Boesch s lawn great again?
In any case, the signs are still up and in workers way.
Boesch still refuses to show respect to people who simply want to do their jobs without unnecessary hassle.Watch a report on the incident below:Featured image via screengrab