Donald Trump s campaign might be close to broke, and he might be doing highly illegal things to try and keep it afloat, but evidence has also been mounting that he s using this election as a means of profit.
The $45 million worth of debt the campaign has is apparently personal loans he made, and he can convert them to donations, effectively wiping out the campaign s debt.He d have to file paperwork with the FEC, though, and so far, that hasn t happened.
NBC wasn t able to get much out of his campaign about this, with spokesperson Hope Hicks saying they re going to file it with the next scheduled FEC report.
She had originally said that they were going to file it last week.Until that paperwork is filed, though, this is another way for him to line his pockets with pieces of silver.
While that loan is still a loan, he can use new campaign donations to reimburse himself.
The law gives him until August to do this, so he can milk this for all it s worth and nobody can do a thing about it.Trumplestiltskin is such an upstanding candidate.GOP donors are squirrelly about this because they want assurances that their money isn t going into Trump s personal coffers.
The problem is, until he files that paperwork, there can t be any assurances, and His Royal Crookedness will find other ways of funneling those donations to his not-inconsiderable bank accounts anyway.Earlier this week, USA Today, which seems to have made it their mission to scrutinize every single thing Trump does, reported that just two percent of the GOP donors that supported Mitt Romney four years ago have contributed to Trump in any way.
Some blame his late start in courting GOP donors, but the truth is, many of them are just too hesitant to give money to him.All he has to do is file a signed statement and reflect the change in accounting on his next filing.
It s not like it s that hard.
Trump s campaign said that this was a done deal and yet, it isn t. Why wouldn t they just tell the truth from the get-go, and say that they ll do it with the next monthly filing, instead of a special statement?
The answer s pretty clear, given what Trump has been doing with his businesses and his campaign finances.
He s in it for the profit, and he will profit in any way he can.Featured image by Drew Angerer/Getty Images