President Donald Trump continued his attack on Connecticut Sen. Richard Blumenthal Monday afternoon, once again mocking the Democratic lawmaker for past falsehoods about his service in Vietnam.Never in U.S.history has anyone lied or defrauded voters like Senator Richard Blumenthal.
He told stories about his Vietnam battles and .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 7, 2017Interesting to watch Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut talking about hoax Russian collusion when he was a phony Vietnam con artist!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 7, 2017 conquests, how brave he was, and it was all a lie.
He cried like a baby and begged for forgiveness like a child.
Now he judges collusion?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 7, 2017Trump initially criticized Blumenthal in response to his discussion of the ongoing investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and its possible connections to the Trump campaign during a CNN interview Monday morning.
Daily CallerTrump didn t stop with his string of attacks on the con-man senator, Richard Blumenthal.
He took to Twitter again yesterday to suggest Senator Blumenthal talk a nice long vacation in Vietnam, where he lied about his service, so he can at least say he was there.
I think Senator Blumenthal should take a nice long vacation in Vietnam, where he lied about his service, so he can at least say he was there Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 7, 2017Blumenthal criticized the Trump administration s decision to triple the number of leak investigations pursued by the Department of Justice, arguing in the CNN segment that the plan represented an attempt to weaponize leak probes.Trump s comments allude to a 2010 New York Times report which found that Blumenthal falsely claimed he had served in Vietnam during the U.S. occupation.
In truth, Blumenthal served in the U.S. Marine Corps reserve, but he never left the U.S. in the course of service.
The senator later explained that he misspoke.
In case anyone was thinking (or hoping) President Trump would discontinue using Twitter as a way to keep a direct line of communication open with Americans, it s not gonna happen.
Most of his supporters have become used to his bombastic style and appreciate the way in which he has chosen to connect with Americans in a more direct fashion.Just before President Trump destroyed the con-artist senator from Connecticut, he sent this tweet, where, after he shared some of his most significant accomplishments to date, he made it perfectly clear to his followers that he Will never change!
: Supreme Court pick, economic enthusiasm, deregulation & so much more have driven the Trump base even closer together.
Will never change!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 7, 2017