Remember the racist, Black Panther punk who started the #EricSheppardChallenge which involved stomping on the American flag?
Yeah well, after ADMITTING he is a terrorist to white people, he s out on bond and living in his mother s home.
Apparently, being black and threatening terrorist acts against whites doesn t hold the same water as say a white cop doing his job.
Eric Sheppard was originally denied bond after he was arrested by U.S.
Marshals in Tampa Bay, Florida, but his attorney appealed the decision, and a Lowndes County Magistrate Judge granted Sheppard a bond of $25,000 last week.Sheppard will be required to live with his mother in Cobb County, Georgia and will be subjected to a 7 p.m. curfew, along with several other conditions of his bond.Sheppard ignited controversy when he and several other VSU student protesters walked on an American flag on the VSU campus on April 17th.Four days later, police found what they said was a gun inside a backpack belonging to Sheppard on campus.
Via: WALBSheppard s flag stomping activities on the campus of Valdosta State University were brought to light when USAF veteran Michelle Manhart attempted to stop these racist, anti-American students from stomping on our flag and was arrested by the Valdosta police:Just as an FYI: (a)(1) Whoever knowingly mutilates, defaces, physically defiles, burns, maintains on the floor or ground, or tramples upon any flag of the United States shall be fined under this title or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.April 22, 2015SHEPPARD ON THE RUN:Valdosta, GA Tensions rise at Valdosta State University as a manhunt continues for one of its own.Eric Sheppard is accused of bringing a handgun to an anti-flag protest on the University s campus Tuesday.Arrest warrants were signed by a Lowndes County Judge charging Sheppard with bringing weapons in a school safety zone, which is a felony.
Authorities say Sheppard is also being investigated by the FBI for possibly making Terroristic Threats on social media.The VSU Student became the face of the anti-flag protest, after he was seen wrestling Air Force Veteran, Michelle Manhart, for an American flag; a flag protestors had been walking on.Tuesday, as anti-flag protests continued, a backpack was found abandoned on campus, that according to VSU Police, who say the gun was linked to Sheppard.
Since then, Sheppard has been on the run.Eric Sheppard Jr. was the organizer of the event, and is an advocate for a militant Black Supremacy movement.
He is pictured throughout his social media profile with alarming messages supporting violence and carrying numerous weapons.This afternoon, a perimeter was formed between Williams and Slater Streets near the University s campus after two citizens reported seeing Sheppard, but he was not found.Now, Sheppard s parents and police, are begging him to turn himself in.
Son, you know we love you, and have always taught you to do the right thing and to make wise decisons.
Please make the right decision and turn yourself in to either the authrorities, or to me, and we will handle this together , pleaded Eric Sheppard Sr. on the steps of West Hall, standing beside VSU President, William McKinney.
He has not done anything to outright hurt anybody, so I m asking him and looking at cameras when I m telling you, Eric, come on in.
Your parents want you to come in.
We want you to come in.
Come talk to us.
Come talk to the police.
We ll get this sorted out , said Valdosta Police Chief, Brian Childress, at the scene of the perimeter.Valdosta Police say Sheppard is considered armed and dangerous.
If you see Eric Sheppard, dial 911.April 29, 2015ONE WEEK LATER AND ERIC SHEPPARD IS STILL ON THE RUN:Valdosta, GA It s been more than a week since Valdosta Police issued an arrest warrant for anti-flag protestor, Eric Sheppard.
He s accused of bringing a gun onto the VSU campus.Local civil rights activist, Reverend Floyd Rose, says that s when Sheppard lost the right to call himself an activist.Reverend Rose has been arrested four times for civil disobedience during the civil rights Era.
He says Sheppard lost the title of activist when he brought the gun on campus, and again when he ran.
I think now, he s put himself in a position where if he doesn t turn himself in, then they go after him.
And they ll get him eventually.
They may know where he is now, I don t know, but I do know this; you end up with more charges when you run.
If he turns himself in, he s going to be better off.
And then face the music, says Reverend Rose.MAY 29, 2015:BREAKING U.S.
Marshals have arrested Eric Sheppard Jr., in Tampa Florida after a month long manhunt.
Sheppard was originally wanted for firearms violations, threats against students, and most recently terrorism threats specifically against white people in Georgia .