Donald Trump is slated to visit Great Britain this summer, and meet with Prince Charles while he s there.
And the White House warned Prince Charles to avoid lecturing Trump on issues like climate change:Members of Trump s inner circle have warned British officials that it would be counterproductive for Charles to lecture Trump on green issues during the president s June visit to Britain, and that the president will erupt if pushed, the Sunday Times of London reported.Well, isn t that a nice way of telling Prince Charles to fuck off if he brings up climate change.
One could even take that to be some kind of veiled threat, but it s more likely that came from Trump needing to feel like he knows everything about everything and doesn t need to be educated on anything.Trump is a known climate-denier and also has, ahem, a tendency to fly off the handle when anyone tries to tell him he s wrong, he screwed up, or basically doesn t kiss his boots and his ass.
He still hasn t grasped the fact that he s the least popular person to assume the highest office in our nation, let alone that people won t immediately acknowledge his amazing intelligence and understanding of the world.He s been looking to pull the U.S. out of the big Paris climate accord as quickly as possible, even looking for ways to circumvent the four-year process for withdrawing.
He believes that environmental regulations are harmful to business and that we must do away with them.
He wants to do away with them so badly he scrubbed all mention of climate change from the White House s website the instant he was sworn in, and started gagging federal agencies directly involved with environmental issues to boot.Prince Charles, however, has not ruled out bringing the subject up, even though he ll probably try and work to avoid the appearance of lecturing.
Sadly, though, Trump will probably see any talk that doesn t fit his views to a tee as lecturing.
The White House is treating Prince Charles like he s the egotistical know-it-all who should shut up and listen.
But what can we expect from an administration that openly and loudly calls for members of the press to be fired for reporting facts they don t like?Photo of Prince Charles by Arthur Edwards -WPA Pool/Getty Images.
Photo of Donald Trump by Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images