Harry Potter books are among the best selling books of all time.
Among millennials, nearly half have read at least one book and more than 3/4ths have seen at least one movie.
In other words, while few are measuring, Harry Potter fans are a pretty big voting bloc and they don t like Donald Trump at all.Ironically, the study was done by Donald Trump s alma mater, the University of Pennsylvania.
The hatred for Trump by Harry Potter readers went beyond party lines and even age or religion.
Why the visceral distaste for the Republican nominee?
Because he reminds them of the books villain, Lord Voldemort.
I think a lot of the identification of Trump s dominating kind of politics is something people associate with Voldemort, she told TIME.
So it makes some sense that if you have been exposed to these long series of books where he is the ultimate kind of incarnation of evil, that the characteristics that are more aggressive tactics and so forth that Trump represents are less attractive, even leaving aside how it affects your policy attitudes.
It s not exactly surprising.
Harry Potter s author, J.K. Rowling, has been a vocal critic of Trump.
In this tweet, she compared him to her villain:How horrible.
Voldemort was nowhere near as bad.
https://t.co/hFO0XmOpPH J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) December 8, 2015The Harry Potter series has long been criticized by Christian Republicans (is there another kind anymore?).
It deals in witchcraft, which is sinful according to many Christians.
Since the books first hit the shelves, there has been a small but vocal movement to ban them.
The people calling for the bans, we can only guess, are likely some of today s Trump voters.Beyond the stories of sorcery, Harry Potter books have a single message: tolerance.
That message is the antithesis of the Trump campaign.
The story is entertaining, people like the characters in it and the lessons it teaches are far more subtle than hitting you over the head with what kind of political candidate you should support, she said.
They re about respect for the opposition and all kinds of things that are pro-tolerance messages.
Maybe the secret to a Hillary Clinton win is to have everyone read Harry Potter before the election.Featured image via Pexels.