Two Donald Trump supporters openly carrying firearms lurked outside of a a Democratic candidate s office for 12 hours on Thursday.
Apparently, President Barack HUSSEIN Obama s evil gun confiscation unit hadn t arrived yet.
It s perfectly legal to open carry firearms in Virginia but intimidating a candidate or any person for that matter is a perversion of the Second Amendment.One of the protesters, Daniel Parks, told Newsplex that he hopes to encourage Trump supporters to stand up for what they believe in.
We suppose Parks thinks Trump supporters have been timid during this election cycle.
I m just trying to provide a voice for someone who might be closet supporters of Trump.
Other people that are a little worried to speak out because of possible persecution, Parks said.As for persecution, Parks suffers from a case of projection.
Also in his hand, Parks held a copy of the Constitution.The two armed men stood outside of a female candidate s office for hours.Parks and another Trump supporter who later joined him outside the campaign of the campaign office Democrat Jane Dittmar s office in Palmyra, Virginia, were openly carrying guns, Su Wolff, a volunteer for Dittmar, told Newsplex.Wolff said that the most disturbing part of the protest was that both of them started exposing their firearms.
He turned sideways to be sure that we would see that he has an open carry gun, which is legal, it s fine, but it s intimidating, Wolff said of one of the protesters.
If he wants to support his candidate that s fine, but don t come here and stare into the office all day.
Parks said that his firearm is legal, and that he meant no harm in carrying it outside of the Democratic candidate s office.
We re not a threat to anybody, the only threat is ignorance, and ignorance breeds fear, Parks said.On Thursday, it was reported that Trump is pulling out of Virginia, in a move which stunned staffers in the battleground state.
Still yet, Parks said he s not giving up.
He might be pulling out, but we re not pulling out, and I m gonna stand my ground and speak out for what I believe in, Parks said.Parks is planning a similar protest in Richmond later this year.Dittmar is not running against Donald Trump, for the record.
She is running against State Sen. Thomas A. Garrett Jr. (R) for the 5th Congressional District seat which is currently held by Rep. Robert Hurt, who is not seeking re-election, TPM reports.The two men must represent Trump s Second Amendment people which the GOP presidential candidate spoke of earlier this year when he issued a veiled threat to Hillary Clinton.Image via screen capture.