So, if the hosts on this show are just comedians, does that mean the low information voters who follow them will stop taking these hacks so seriously?
Friday on ABC s The View, Republican presidential candidate and former CEO of Hewlett-Packard Carly Fiorina fought toe to toe with the co-hosts over their comments disparaging her face as demented and a Halloween Mask.
After small talk, Whoopi Goldberg brought up the subject saying, How about humor?
I m going the bring it up because there are going to be lots of comics saying lots of things.
I wondered, because we saw some of the that you were a little upset with us about a comic comment that was made.
And so, how will you steel your skin?
How will you get a thicker skin to accept some of the humorous things that will be said about you?
Fiorina said, Well, hey, if you meant your comment about my face being demented and a Halloween mask as humorous, so be it.
I guess you misinterpreted Donald Trump s questions.
I have a real thick skin.
Joy Behar said, I defended you against Donald Trump s comment.
He s running for president of the United States and he was making a nasty comment about your looks.
I took him on.
On this show, but, we are comedians here.
I make fun of Hillary s pantsuits.
Hillary s husband s sex life.
Rep. John Boehner s tan.
Who else?
I don t understand why any politician is exempt from my jokes.
Here s the clip from Carly s awesome interview:Fiorina answered, You know what, Joy.
You know what, Joy?
You can say whatever you want.
You always have.
You always will.
I m not going to stop that.
And don t worry, I have skin plenty thick enough to the take whatever people throw at me.
I m making a different point.
The different point is this.
I think that there are real issues in this nation that we ought to be able to discuss in a fact-based, civil fashion.
Michelle Collins said, I want to add that the demented comment was a poor choice of words.
It was responding to something you said during the debates.
That people were telling you the smile more.
To me, it felt like it was not your natural state of mind.
It was not on your looks, it was on your expression.
It felt like you were being told to smile more.
I m wondering, is that difficult for you?
Do you have people coaching you to act or be a different way?
Will that help you win the election?
Fiorina shot back, First of all, I don t have people coaching me to act a different way or be a different way.
There s a time to smile and a time to be serious.
When you re talking about burying a child, it s not time to smile.
There are serous issues facing the nation.
Goldberg said, We had you here.
I thought we were pretty respectful.
I have to tell you, having watched some of the press that you have garnered based on this fake feud with The View, I m a little taken aback.
Because you kind of said that that somehow liberal women are that we re made uncomfortable by conservative women.
We were not uncomfortable with you.
Did you think we were uncomfortable with you when you were on?
Fiorina said, First of all, Whoopi.
I enjoyed being on the show.
The first time.
and I m enjoying being on the show the second time.
And I think The View garnered a lot of publicity over the feud as well.
I think that s why we re on.
Goldberg said, We haven t put out any ads or anything.
Fiorina said, I haven t put out any ads either, Whoopi.
Via: Breitbart News