But wait the first female president oh never mind, the Democrat party s gonna go with diversity and pick the old white guy.
Because in the end, the Democrats don t really give a hoot about diversity it all comes down to voting for freebies.According to PBS, Bernie Sanders is gaining against Clinton in early polls.
Salon s Bill Curry believes Hillary Clinton is going lose, primarily because millions of voters longing for a truly progressive candidate will nominate Sanders.
POLITICO explained recently that Early-state polls hint at a Bernie Sanders surge, a headline that was unthinkable only several months earlier.
Yahoo s Meredith Shiner calls Sanders a progressive social media star and pragmatic legislator and states that Sanders also has a much more substantial legislative history than any GOP challenger.
In Iowa, 1,100 people packed a gym to hear Bernie Sanders speak in May.In contrast, Team Hillary had an intimate business roundtable discussion with five ordinary Iowans.
The only problem was that according to The Washington Post, All five were selected to attend her events.
In fact, Clinton s staged roundtables were attended by a total of 13 Iowans, picked by either the campaign or the host.Therefore, a paradigm shift has taken place.
Many Iowans drove 50 miles to hear Sanders speak in Des Moines, primarily because Bernie Sanders has surpassed Clinton as the ideal choice for Democratic nominee.
Regarding electability, Sanders has also surpassed Clinton as the realistic choice for Democratic nominee in the minds of many voters, because as one Salon piece illustrates, Hillary just doesn t get it.
When it comes to everything from immigration to climate change and economic issues (most Americans side with Democrats, according to Pew research and other data) some writers believe that Democrats can nominate a ham sandwich and win the presidency.
Although once thought of as an impossibility, a closer look at the electoral map shows why Bernie Sanders could realistically defeat any GOP challenger.
If voters around the country still care about middle class economics, the federal budget, trade and other hot button issues in 2016, Sanders has a legitimate chance to win.
Also, since Sanders isn t tied to Obama fatigue like Hillary Clinton, it s quite possible the Vermont Senator re-energizes an America that just recently decided the Confederate flag doesn t represent its value system.According to a POLITICO piece titled The 2016 Results We Can Already Predict, Assuming the lean, likely, and safe Democratic states remain loyal to the party, the nominee need only win 23 of the 85 toss-up electoral votes.
Therefore, there s no need to jettison cherished values for the sake of pragmatism; those days are over.
Senator Bernie Sanders, known in Washington and throughout the nation as an advocate for middle class Americans, veterans, the environment, and other cherished causes can win crucial electoral votes just as easily as Hillary Clinton.Finally, perhaps the biggest reason Sanders is surging is because he s a genuine person with real beliefs, while others become chameleons when votes and public image are at stake.
It s important to note that Hillary Clinton just recently evolved on gay marriage and in 2004, Clinton s speech (forward to 0:22 on the Slate video or read the transcript of her passionate defense of marriage between only a man and woman) highlighted her views on the sacred bond of marriage:Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY): I believe marriage is a sacred bond between a man and a woman .a fundamental bedrock principle that it exists between a man and woman, going back into the midst of history, as one of the founding, foundational institutions of history and humanity and civilization.
And that it s primary principle role during those milennia has been the raising and socializing of children for the society into which they are to become adults.
According to The Atlantic, Clinton s stance remained unchanged for years, and she also opposed gay marriage as recently as 2013, long after a majority of Americans already held a more gay-friendly position.
In terms of identity, Hillary Clinton might be a liberal according to fivethirtyeight.com, yet their analysis gives her a free pass on war, gay marriage, and other issues liberals had championed before they were popular.
Adhering to polls is fine, but the words poll driven, not progressive, come to mind for someone with this type of persona.
If one s views on war and foreign policy are enough for The New York Times to publish an article titled Are neocons getting ready to ally with Hillary Clinton?, then Bernie Sanders becomes an even better candidate for people opposed to never-ending American counterinsurgency wars.
Clinton might say she was duped by faulty intelligence, but Bernie Sanders had enough intelligence and wisdom to vote against the Iraq war back in 2003.Via: Huffington Post