Mr Fast and Furious fired back at President Trump who claimed the FBI s reputation is in tatters thanks to former FBI Director James Comey.
He certainly wasn t expecting to be slammed back by people on twitter.
Holder and Obama have obviously decided to go full out to attack President Trump.
They just don t realize who they re dealing with The American people and President Trump aren t sitting back and letting these thugs attack them Holder said the FBI has more integrity than the White House, which is facing increased scrutiny as special counsel Robert Mueller s investigation into Russia s meddling in the 2016 election heats up.Nope.
Not letting this go.
The FBI s reputation is not in tatters .
It s composed of the same dedicated men and women who have always worked there and who do a great, apolitical job.
You ll find integrity and honesty at FBI headquarters and not at 1600 Penn Ave right now Eric Holder (@EricHolder) December 3, 2017 Nope.
Not letting this go.
The FBI s reputation is not in tatters.
It s composed of the same dedicated men and women who have always worked there and who do a great, apolitical job.
You ll find integrity and honesty at FBI headquarters and not at 1600 Penn Ave right now, Eric Holder tweeted Sunday.1.
Desperately trying to message what remains of your crooked network eh, Eric?
Comey out, McCabe & Strzok chained to their desks and under surveillance.
Dear me.
Anyone else who got involved with you must be VERY nervous right now.
Imperator_Rex (@Imperator_Rex3) December 3, 2017Hillary was supposed to win, that is why they believed they could act with impunity, their arrogant sloppiness brought them down.
They had it all planned and then SHE LOST!
Game over, now we get to see some real justice done.
Jennifer Hoffman (@Jenniferhoffman) December 3, 2017 pic.twitter.com/GIPxxShDw4 Andy Weiss (@AndyWeiss11) December 3, 2017This coming from the guy that sat back and watched as our uranium was being sold to the very ones that you as democrats decry as our foe.
Russia, russia, russia.
Oh and there s that whole running guns thing too.
Culper Ring (@ring_culper) December 3, 2017HOLDER RECENTLY CALLED PRESIDENT TRUMP A DEROGATORY NAME IN ANOTHER RANT:The information below is disturbing and should be a wake up call for Americans that the left isn t taking losing lying down.
This is war A war for the heart of America!The quote below from Steve Bannon also goes for the left and the radical elitists like Holder He continuously mocks President Trump in the interview below by calling him orange man .
Holder is seething with contempt and hate.
It s shameful behavior from a man who was once a very powerful member of a presidential administration in America.
He exposes himself for the hateful racist we knew he was.
This is scary and should be a big reminder that the war isn t over with these people.
Keep up the fight!Former Attorney General Eric Holder says he is glad to be unshackled from his old job because employment with the National Democratic Redistricting Committee lets him lash out at Republicans like orange man President Trump.Politico recently went on the road with the NDRC s chairman in Virginia for get-out-the-vote efforts on behalf of Lt. Gov.
Ralph Northam, the Democratic nominee for Virginia governor.An interview at Rising Mount Zion Baptist Church in Richmond covered everything from NDRC s efforts to raise over $30 million for gubernatorial races to Mr. Trump s alleged role in empowering neo-Nazis and white nationalists.
I probably would not have [attacked Republicans like] that while I was attorney general, he continued.
I didn t have an orange man who I was serving under, but, I mean, I would not have said that about a former president, for instance, while I was attorney general.
But now, I m just a citizen and I ve got the full range of my voice back.
The former attorney general also told Rising Mount Zion congregants that Mr. Northam s battle with Republican Ed Gillespie was important because debts have to be repaid.
Read more: WT