A man ranting about Nazi Germany had a strange encounter with MSNBC host and college professor Melissa Harris-Perry at the Iowa caucuses this week.
Perry was with some of her students in a hotel lobby in Des Moines where a man she doesn t remember ever speaking to came up to her and began speaking, oddly acting as if they were in mid-conversation.Harris-Perry wrote about the odd incident on her website.When he started he speaking it was like he was picking up in the middle of sentence, finishing a conversation we had begun earlier, but I couldn t remember ever meeting him.
So what is it that you teach?
I am a professor of political science.
My wife is a professor of communications.
Does she teach here in Iowa?
What I want to know is how you got credentialed to be on MSNBC.
I am not sure if it is how he spat the word credentialed, or if it is how he took another half step toward me, or if it is how he didn t respond to my question, but the hairs on my arm stood on end.
I ignored it.
Told myself everything was ok. Well.
It is not exactly a credential I began.
But why you?
Why would they pick you?
Perry said the man now sounded angry and began to get closer to her.
As the victim of a previous violent crime, she became more upset and agitated at the provocation.
The situation escalated:I freeze.
He speaks.
And moves closer.
Is there a knife under the coat?
A gun?
Worse?And I can t hear all the words.
But I catch Nazi Germany and I catch rise to power.
But I can t move.
I am lulled by a familiar powerlessness, muteness, that comes powerfully and unexpectedly.
It grips me.
Everything is falling away.
Until in my peripheral vision I catch sight of a ponytail, the movement of an arm, the sound of familiar young voices and I remember my students.She jumped up and rejoined her students, telling the hotel authorities about the bizarre encounter, though they don t appear to have taken any action.While he only got second place in the caucuses, Donald Trump s campaign has made an appeal to extremist racists and bigots, speaking in a racist manner that was previously only done behind closed doors.
Now they re coming out into the light, and apparently trying to intimidate progressive figures like Harris-Perry, who have often been the target of attacks and ridicule by conservative and conservative media outlets like Rush Limbaugh and Fox News.Featured image via YouTube