This morning our commander-in-chief wished Happy Mother s day to all of the great mothers out there, but women and men from all over America ripped him a new one as they responded to what most considered a hollow message from the president, who has proved to us through his words and actions that he isn t siding with women s health and well-being.With the Trumpcare plan being the GOP s main focus in the House and Senate, Trump is proving to be more of an enemy than a supporter of women.
If this plan goes into effect, it would decimate health care access for women.
The president and his Republican friends were on the receiving end of backlash today for what some see as ignorance, callous indifference, hypocrisy, and ignorance in the face of a health crisis for women.
Want to support women & mothers?
Give them access to they need to lead the lives they want.
#TrumpCare doesn t care.
Said a tweet from Planned Parenthood Action Fund.I wonder how many GOPs who voted #trumpcare will wish their moms Happy Mothers Day while their vote said, hey your healthcare means nothing.
FrugalistaBlog (@frugieblog) May 13, 2017If your Rep has a #MothersDay message & voted for Trumpcare, remind them they made a c-section a pre-existing condition.
Don't let them off.
David Lebo (@leboism) May 14, 2017Show you care about mothers: Double down on your commitment to oppose #Trumpcare!
#MothersDay https://t.co/CEd6TWWrao CenterforReproRights (@ReproRights) May 13, 2017Countless messages took over the internet today, some targeting Trump while others took shots at other GOP lawmakers, including Speaker Paul Ryan.For #MothersDay, Ryan got moms Trumpcare which could gut pregnancy care for millions & charge hire premiums to mothers who had c-sections https://t.co/jIcPxUJkK5 Molly Cain (@mollicus) May 14, 2017Critics have pointed out that the health care bill Republicans are pushing should be named wealthcare, as opposed to healthcare.
Political columnist Richard Eskow explained: It s a wealth grab for the already wealthy.
Its benefits will go, first and formost, to billionaires who make more money from investments than form work.
the 400 highest-earing households in the county will get an average tac break of $7 million per year under the Republican Plan.
The legislative group working towards the plan is comprised of thirteen men and not one single woman.
The negative impacts of this plan on mothers and all females will be severe.
Even coverage for prescription drugs, which women also utilize more than men, could lose its designation as an essential health benefit under the House bill.On the bright side, mother-daughter relationships with potentially divergent political views can come together around this topic.Best Mothers Day ever: after explaining to my conservative mom how #trumpcare would harm me, she asked how she could write her Senators ??
tannerglass (@tannerglass) May 14, 2017Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images