This is unbelievably outrageous.Republicans are literally pretending that the last eight years never happened.In February 2016, Justice Antonin Scalia passed away, leaving a vacancy on the Supreme Court that President Obama was responsible to fill.
But Scalia s body was not even cold before Republicans vowed to block any nominee he selected for the position.And so, Republicans did just that and refused to even grant Merrick Garland a hearing despite the fact that he is a moderate centrist who enjoyed support from Republicans in the past.Republicans excused their unprecedented behavior by claiming that lame-duck presidents can t pick Supreme Court nominees and claimed that the American people should get a say in November about who should pick the next Supreme Court Justice.Th GOP has three problems here.
First, President Obama was elected twice by the American people and therefore had the right to choose the nominee.
Second, there is plenty of historical examples of presidents picking Supreme Court nominees and getting them confirmed during their final year in office.
Ronald Reagan is one of them.
And finally, the American people did not vote for Donald Trump, they voted for Hillary Clinton by nearly 3 million votes.So Trump definitely does not have a mandate and Republicans do not have any excuses for their obstruction.But Democrats certainly do have a really good excuse to block Trump s nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the high court.
After all, Republicans created the new precedent last year by refusing to confirm Garland.
Republicans literally stole a Supreme Court seat from President Obama and the Democratic Party.But Mike Pence claims that even threatening to obstruct Trump s nominee is unprecedented.
During a speech to the Federalist Society, Pence promised that Gorsuch will pick up where Scalia left off.
In other words, he ll be a complete dick who wants to repeal every Supreme Court ruling that protects the rights of women, minorities, gay people, the environment, etc until this nation is taken all the way back to the 1850s.And then he said this.
Several announced their opposition within minutes of his nomination, and now they re even threatening to use the filibuster procedure in the Senate to stop him.
Make no mistake about it, this is an unwise and an unprecedented act .This seat does not belong to any party or any ideology or any interest group, this seat on the Supreme Court belongs to the American people, and the American people deserve a vote on the floor of the United States Senate.
Here s the video via YouTube.Democrats should block Trump s Supreme Court pick at all costs.
Turnabout is fair play and Republicans are hypocrites for whining about obstruction when they are the ones who totally disrespected President Obama and Merrick Garland in the first place.
They only have themselves to blame for what Democrats are threatening to do and they have no right to complain after the way they acted last year.
If Republicans wanted Democrats to cooperate with Trump, they should have thought about that before acting like complete traitors toward President Obama.Republicans wanted the Supreme Court to just have eight justices and that has lasted for a year now.
It s time for Democrats to extend that wait to another four years.
And if Republicans change the rules to force Gorsuch on the Supreme Court, Democrats should impeach him and Trump when they get control of Congress and show Republicans what the word unprecedented really means.Featured image via screenshot