On Wednesday, Bernie Sanders supporters showed just what classy and decent people they were when they stuck up for Sanders Democratic rival Hillary Clinton and also took a stand for women all over the world in the process.This happened when a man was spotted holding a disgustingly misogynistic sign that protested the presidential campaign of former Secretary of State at one of her rallies in Buena Park, California.
His sign read, Women are NOT fit to be President and President = man s job.
Here s the awful sign, as posted to Twitter by ABC s Liz Kreutz:Man holds Women are NOT fit to be President sign outside Clinton s rally pic.twitter.com/S2Ya6MUAyU Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) May 25, 2016Fortunately, a group of Sanders fans were at Clinton s rally to support Bernie and although they weren t backing Clinton, they knew what needed to be done when they saw this misogynist in action.
In the video below, you ll see Sanders supporters confront the sexist anti-Clinton protester, and destroy his sign to show that sexism and leaving women out of politics is a thing of the past.
He is shamed, mocked and berated for his oppressive attitudes toward women as Sanders supporters teach him a lesson he ll never forget.
One woman can even be heard saying, He s a f*cking teacher.
Did you see what his sign said?
You can watch the video here: Some of the Sanders supporters protesting Clinton tore up the man s women are not fit to be president sign pic.twitter.com/t6JScCYgcQ Liz Kreutz (@ABCLiz) May 25, 2016The man wasn t identified, but Kreutz reported shortly after posting the video that The man would not give his name but some people here identified him as a local high school AP calculus teacher.
This caused many people on social media to respond with things like, He needs to be fired NOW.
There s no way girls in his AP calculus class are being treated fairly or constitutionally.
Later that day, Kreutz was able to reach him and his cowardly response was that his sign was a joke which seriously makes me wonder if this guy might be a Donald Trump fan.Bernie Sanders supporters might not have been there for Hillary, but they definitely did something honorable not just for her, but for all women.
Thanks to them, this right-wing nut has been properly shamed and this video has gone viral.
Hopefully, his school district will find out and he will be fired before his sexist attitude can threaten the futures of any more women and girls.Featured image via Twitter