Attorneys are racing to the defense of a child after the little girl was detained by airport security because of the Muslim ban signed by Donald Trump.On Saturday, Trump told the press that his executive order banning Muslims from entering the United was working out very nicely amid the mass chaos that has ensued ever since he issued the order.
It s not a Muslim ban, but we re totally prepared, Trump claimed.
It s working out very nicely.
You see it at the airports, you see it all over.
It s working out very nicely and we re gonna have a very, very strict ban and we re going to have extreme vetting, which we should have had in this country for many years.
Except that it s NOT working very nicely at all.Thousands of people are finding themselves stranded or detained at airports because of the order.
Even holders of green cards are being prevented from entering the United States despite being citizens of this nation.
Protests against Trump s order have also been popping up at airports across the country.And things got even worse on Saturday evening when security at Dulles International Airport detained a five-year-old girl and refused to let her mother see her.Seriously, how in the hell is a five-year-old girl even considered a terror threat in this country?Former Governor Howard Dean posted the news on Twitter and pleaded for an attorney to go to the scene to rescue the girl as soon as possible.This is now a violation of a federal court order.
A lawyer is needed at Dulles.
https://t.co/g2lUc3EYuP Howard Dean (@GovHowardDean) January 29, 2017Indeed, a federal judge issued an emergency stay against Trump s executive order earlier on Saturday which prevents the government from sending people out of the country if they have visas allowing them entry.So a scared little girl is literally being detained and kept from her mother because Donald Trump is an asshole.
He needs to be sued into oblivion for this, or better yet, chased out of this country and banned from ever returning.
Because his policies are turning America into a disaster.Featured image via Pixabay