Donald Trump may soon be facing the November election completely alone.
A new report from Time is detailing an ultimatum between RNC Chairman Reince Priebus and the Republican presidential candidate: either he cleans up his act, or the Republican Party will stop funding him.Citing polls that show Trump s campaign in the gutter, Priebus, in a phone call with Trump, told the nominee that if he didn t change the trajectory of his message, the party would instead focus on funding and supporting down ballot races in the House and Senate.
Priebus also allegedly told Trump he would have been better off staying at his Florida estate, Mar-a-Lago, after the convention.Considering Democrats are poised to take back the Senate and make significant gains in the House, the Republicans should utterly and completely dump Trump.The alleged phone call stemmed after Trump s confrontation with the gold star Khan family, and his refusal to endorse Paul Ryan and John McCain.Trump, of course, denied this, saying:He never said that.
We never had a conversation about that.
We do very well together.
We never had that conversation.
Doesn t exist.
And by the way, Reince Priebus is a terrific guy.
He never said that.
It was never stated.
Why would they state that when I m raising millions of dollars for them.Something tells me his latest Second Amendment comment isn t what Priebus had in mind.
Priebus also told Trump that his loyalty is not to the Trump campaign, but to the Republican Party, saying he is not the chairman to the Trump campaign and that he would do what s best for the GOP:Priebus and Trump talk frequently, with the party chair urging Trump for months to professionalize his operations and campaign.
But the tenor of the calls turned more frank and frustrated last week as Trump s campaign slide continued.
The officials said Priebus reminded Trump that his title is RNC chairman, not chairman of the Trump campaign, adding that he would act in the best interests of the Republican PartyTrump is the nominee for President of the United States it s safe to say Priebus failed to do what is best for the GOP.
His own economic agenda was drowned out by his calls for a Second Amendment remedy for Hillary Clinton, and a slew of prominent Republicans have been abandoning ship and announcing their support for Clinton.The GOP is in full tail-spin mode.
And it s all thanks to Donald Trump.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images