Will the Democrats ultimately choose a Marxist who s never accomplished a thing in his life or a serial criminal socialist?
Choices choices MANCHESTER, N.H. Hillary Clinton spoke of being knocked down and having problems with young voters in a bitter concession speech after losing to Sen. Bernie Sanders Tuesday night in the New Hampshire Democratic primary.
I don t know what we d have done tonight if we d actually won.
This is pretty exciting, Clinton said to her crowd of supporters shortly after 9 PM Eastern Time, flanked onstage by husband Bill and daughter Chelsea, who did not speak.
I just want to say, I still love New Hampshire and I always will.
People are angry.
But there s also hungry.
They re hungry for solutions.
What are we going to do?, Clinton said.
I know I have some work to do, especially with young people, Clinton said.
Even if they are not supporting me right now, I am supporting them It s not whether you get knocked down that matters, it s whether you get back up.
Clinton devolved into an angry, ranting style by speech s end, calling for human rights for gays, women, workers, and others.
She also pivoted to focus on South Carolina, which will be decided by the black vote, talking about how African-American parents should not have to worry about their kids being harassed or shot, and immigrant families should not have to lie awake at night waiting for a knock on the door signaling deportation.She also spoke of the contaminated water crisis in Flint, Michigan and of a hypothetical grandmother forced to choose between rent or food because some drug company raised medicine prices by 4,000 percent an apparent reference to scandal-ridden former drug CEO Martin Shkreli.Clinton lost resoundingly to Sanders in the Granite State.
By the time she finished her speech, Sanders was beating her 58.5 percent to 39.7 percent with 37 percent of the precincts reporting.
CNN called the race for Sanders at approximately 8 PM.Sanders win was fueled by a massive turnout by independent voters and non-Democrats.Forty-one percent of Democrat voters were independents and only 55 percent were registered Democrats, according to CNN exit polling.
Via: Breitbart News