Donald Trump s appearance at an MSNBC town hall event Wednesday didn t go very well for him when host Mika Brzezinski played a little game with him.
It was simple: she would describe a candidate and Trump would guess who she was speaking about.
Pretty simple, right?Brzezinski gave the following description of a candidate: The candidate is considered a political outsider by all the pundits.
He s tapping into all the anger of the voters, delivers a populist message.
He believes everyone in the country should have healthcare.
He advocates for hedge fund managers to pay higher taxes.
He s drawing thousands of people at his rallies and bringing in a lot of new voters to the political process, and he s not beholden to any super PAC.
Who am I describing?
Or any special interests or any donors, he said, adding.
You re describing Donald Trump.
Actually, I was describing Bernie Sanders, Brzezinski said as the audience burst into laughter.
That s good, Trump conceded.
The billionaire, who has spent his career ripping people off, says that there is one area in which they agree that our country is being ripped off big-league on trade though he says Sanders can t do anything about it because he doesn t understand the problem.Trump, of course, doesn t understand much of anything past how to creepily talk openly about how much he wants to f*ck his daughter.
His rise in popularity has nothing to do with how much he can accomplish, his knowledge, or anything substantive.
Trump s ascension is linked to his talk of building walls, of rounding up Muslims into concentration camps, of banning brown people from entering the country.
His supporters are largely uneducated bigots who simply like him because he speaks his mind the same thing your irritating right-wing uncle does at holiday dinners.Trump s harnessing of the anger of the Stupid Part of America is very real.
Make no mistake about it: he will absolutely be bringing voters to the polls in November.
It is important that you register to vote.
If your state has enacted voter ID legislation in an effort to disenfranchise certain segments of the population, make sure you obtain all the required documentation to vote and vote BLUE.Watch Trump embarrass himself below:Featured image via screengrab