Among the never ending stream of Trump administration lies, one in particular has captured the attention of Twitter.
Trump spokesperson Kellyanne Conway pretty much lost all her credibility when she claimed, in an interview with Chris Matthews, that there was a Bowling Green massacre which was somehow the fault of President Obama.
There wasn t. I bet it s brand-new information to people that President Obama had a six-month ban on the Iraqi refugee program after two Iraqis came here to this country, were radicalized, and they were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre.
Entire twitter feeds sprung up over Conway s made up massacre.
Conway s defense was that she misspoke and that the media is just being mean to her..@KellyannePolls: I misspoke one word.
The corrections in the newspapers who are attacking me are 3 paragraphs long every day.
pic.twitter.com/lA0wLk1my8 Fox News (@FoxNews) February 5, 2017Except, this isn t the first time she talked about the Bowling Green massacre and she had even elaborated on it in an interview with, of all sources, Cosmopolitan.
(I)n an interview with Cosmopolitan.com conducted by phone days earlier, on Sunday, Jan. 29, Conway used the same phrasing, claiming that President Barack Obama called for a temporary ban on Iraqi refugees after the Bowling Green massacre.
(The quotes did not appear in either of two stories recently published on Cosmopolitan.com.)
He did, it s a fact, she said of Obama.
Why did he do that?
He did that for exactly the same reasons.
He did that because two Iraqi nationals came to this country, joined ISIS, traveled back to the Middle East to get trained and refine their terrorism skills, and come back here, and were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre of taking innocent soldiers lives away.
In other words, Cosmo did the job that Chris Matthews failed to do.What Conway was referring to is the fact that there were two Iraqi men, Mohanad Shareef Hammadi and Waad Ramadan Alwan, who were refugees and did become radicalized (in the United States, not in Iraq), but were arrested before carrying anything out.While Conway tried to tie the massacre that wasn t to Obama s non-existent travel ban, the facts show that Obama handled the situation very well.
They administered a toughing vetting process for Iraqi refugees for six months.
There was no ban, and as Cosmo has shown, there was no misstatement on Conway s part.Read more:Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images