There is chatter within the White House that Kellyanne Conway is being looked at as the next communications director, a source within the White House told The Daily Caller.Anthony Scaramucci was ousted Monday as communications director following a week of publicly feuding with former chief of staff Reince Priebus.
Scaramucci called Priebus a paranoid schizophrenic in an interview President Trump viewed as inappropriate, according to White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Kellyanne Conway would be a perfect choice for President Trump s new communications director.
Conway is no stranger to dealing with the press.
She is also no pushover.
Conway has taken on almost every liberal hack at every leftist network in America, and each time she s walked away holding her head high, as she make her points in an eloquent but no holds barred way.Chris Cuomo of fake news network CNN interviewed Kellyanne Conway on Sunday.
You would have thought by now, these hacks at CNN would have figured out they are no match for the brilliant Kellyanne Conway.
At the opening of his interview with Conway, Cuomo attempted to convince the few viewers who still watch CNN that President Trump was very squishy on his meeting with Vladimir Putin.
Kellyanne Conway snapped back in her usual calm but witty way, Chris, let s back up.
So you re saying you used the word squishy which, itself, is unusual to describe the president s state of mind.
So somehow that makes people on CNN insist that the president is never going to raise this with Putin?
Why are they still in there?
Cuomo responded, It s not about CNN.
It s about what the president said, Kellyanne.
Kellyanne immediately landed a right hook to fake news host Chris Cuomo when she asked him, Aren t you the least bit reluctant, if not embarrassed that you now talk about Russia more than you talk about America?
Watch the brilliant exchange here:Conway, currently a counselor to the president, served as Trump s campaign manager and was previously a Republican pollster.
She currently is a visible face of the Trump administration through her frequent appearances on cable news and is often relied on by the White House to deliver its message to the press.
Daily Caller