Watching this video will help anyone who is curious about why the city of Detroit continues to be bailed out of trouble like an irresponsible child with a trust fund.
This video of Detroit City Council member Monica Conyers (D), wife of US Representative John Conyers helps to explain the type of character Detroit voters have been placing their trust in for decades.
This is an older video, but definitely worth sharing.Shortly after this debate with an 8th grader, City Councilwoman Monica Conyers was found guilty of bribery and sent to prison for 3 years.Former Detroit City councilwoman, Monica Conyers was sentenced to more than three years in prison for bribery after a federal judge refused to set aside her guilty plea during a stormy court hearing dominated by a dispute over evidence of other payoffs.As guards cleared the packed courtroom, Monica Conyers yelled that she planned to appeal.
The wife of U.S. Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., wanted to withdraw her guilty plea, suggesting she was the victim of badgering last year when she admitted taking cash to support a Houston company s sludge contract with the city.But U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn, reviewing a transcript of the June hearing, said Conyers had denied any coercion and voluntarily pleaded guilty to conspiracy.Conyers, 45, is the biggest catch so far in the FBI s wide-ranging investigation of corruption in Detroit city government.
Nine people have pleaded guilty, including two former directors of the downtown convention center, and prosecutors have promised more charges are coming.
Bribery is a betrayal of trust, Cohn told Conyers after announcing a 37-month prison term for her egregious crime.
She quit the council after pleading guilty in June.Conyers plea deal was limited to taking bribes to support a contract with Synagro worth $47 million a year.
But the recent trial of her former aide, Sam Riddle, exposed a series of alleged schemes involving others making payoffs to do business at city hall.Prosecutors said Riddle and Conyers collected $69,500 by shaking people down and urged Cohn to consider the alleged crimes when sentencing her.
Defense lawyer Steve Fishman firmly objected and demanded a separate hearing.Conyers declared, I m not going to jail for something I didn t do.
Before the hearing, Conyers moved around the courtroom like a playful host, blowing kisses to supporters while wearing dark sunglasses.
Her husband, who has an office in the federal courthouse, was not in the courtroom.
Spokesman Jonathan Godfrey said he didn t know his whereabouts.
Via: Huff PostDespite her going to prison, losing her political job and often embarrassing the family with her behavior in City Hall, U.S. Rep. John Conyers does not want a divorce from his feisty wife, Monica Conyers, his lawyer told the Free Press on Monday.The former Detroit city councilwoman filed for divorce last month, claiming the marriage has fallen apart beyond repair.
But her 86-year-old husband wants to work things out.
Detroit Free Press