The United States Secret Service is investigating conspiracy theorist and right wing radio host Glenn Beck.
The probe is in relation to a statement Beck made on his nationally syndicated radio show while broadcasting from the CPAC conference.The agency is required to investigate any and all threats related to the people it is protecting, in this case it happens to be comments Beck made about Donald Trump, who Beck is opposed to.
From CBS Dallas:During his radio show Friday morning, Beck and his producers were talking about the other candidates saying they would support Donald Trump if he becomes the Republican nominee.His producer mocked Beck after Beck mentioned being in the shoes of Trump s rivals: Was it gigantic shoes?
asked the producer Stu Burguiere.
If I was close enough and I had a knife.
Really.
I mean the stabbing just wouldn t stop, Beck responded, appearing to direct his comments at Burguiere.Beck s comments were blasted out by the conservative Daily Caller, which is run by Fox News host Tucker Carlson.But unlike so many other inflammatory statements from Beck, this may actually be a mistake.
Beck was apparently talking about his producer, Stu Burguiere.
Burguiere posted on his Facebook page after the incident noting, If you were listening, you know that Glenn actually threatened me, not Donald Trump, so I am in the odd situation of defending my boss for threatening my life.
The comments may have been seen as more credible because Beck has been a critic of Trump, claiming that his preferred candidate, Ted Cruz, is more qualified and destined for the presidency than Trump.
Beck has accused Trump of being a huckster and a phony.It seems fitting that a conservative media outlet s sloppy reporting led to federal law enforcement being called in on another conservative media icon.Beck has for years promoted conspiracy theories about President Obama, Democrats, and other progressives.
He also claimed that Obama hates white people and that he has been using the power of the government to give black people reparations.
Beck s theories were so out there that advertisers began abandoning his afternoon show on Fox News, and the network soon dropped him.
Now he broadcasts online and on a few niche cable networks, while still retaining his radio show but even that is dwarfed by more successful hosts like Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity.Featured image via Flickr