Isn t it unbelievable that these so-called experts get to spout off their hatred towards President Trump on a regular basis via MSNBC?
This village idiot connects Mosque burnings to Trump when anyone with half a brain knows the Muslims are vandalizing their own Mosques (see below)!
They don t even know who burned the Minnesota Mosque!The blame has been put on President Trump but could it be that the Muslims set fire to these Mosques to produce a backlash?
some of the arson cases have not been solved so why is Buzzfeed blaming the attacks on anti-Muslim arsonists?BUZZFEED MAKES FALSE CLAIMS:In the past seven weeks, four mosques across the country have caught fire, according to BuzzFeed News.
Three of those fires have been ruled arson, authorities stated.On Jan. 7, the Islamic Center of Lake Travis in Austin, which had been under construction, caught on fire.
A week later, on Jan. 14, the Islamic Center of Eastside in Bellevue, Washington, burned.Two weeks after that, on Jan. 28, several hours after President Donald Trump signed an executive order banning immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries, a fire destroyed the Islamic Center of Victoria in Texas.According to BuzzFeed News, the Daarus Salaam Mosque near Tampa, Florida, caught on fire this past Friday, marking the fourth mosque in to go up in flames in fewer than two months.
Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the Southern Poverty Law Center, said he s never seen anything like this, calling them part of a series of dramatic attacks against Muslims.WHAT THEY DON T REPORT ON: MUSLIMS TORCHING THEIR OWN MOSQUE!Police in Iowa arrested a 22-year-old woman suspected of starting a small fire at an Iowa mosque Thursday morning.Security cameras in the mosque showed a woman, later identified as Aisha Ismail, pouring lighter fluid on the carpet and then starting the fire, said Des Moines police spokesmanTHE TEXAS CASE:HOUSTON, Texas The Muslim charged with arson of his own mosque on Christmas Day 2015 has pleaded guilty to felony arson in a Harris County (Houston) district court and was sentenced to prison.
The charging instrument stated that Gary Nathaniel Moore started a fire with the intent to destroy and damage a place of worship the Savoy Masjid Mosque in Houston.
Moore said he attended the mosque every day up to five times a day for five years.
The Houston Fire Department (HFD) responded to the fire about 2:47 p.m. on Christmas Day.THE MOST DISTURBING CASE IS A FAKE HATE CRIME CASE:Have you heard about the Texas case where the Muslim community pushed for a hate crime charge and got it.
The lawyer for the defendant, Mr. Di Carlo, contested the basic premise of the hate crime charge: This was not a mosque, this was an Islamic learning center and there was a mosque therein, he said.
Read more: NYT