There are a lot of crazy Republicans out there.
Trump supporters, Alex Jones disciples, hell Alex Jones himself.
But then there is the one who might be the pinnacle of clinically insane Republicans and that is Robert Morrow.Morrow is the brand new chair of the Republican Party in Travis County, Texas, where the state capitol of Austin is located.
Sounds like an important guy.
Right?You might think that he is some party insider with a track record of qualifications for such an important position in what is such a traditionally Republican state.
That thought would be instantly destroyed once you read this guy s Twitter account.It s hard to explain how this individual won the election, with the stuff he says online.
It isn t a troll account.
It isn t some work of performance art or an impersonator that hacked his Twitter.
It s REALLY him and it is, for Republicans, an embarrassment to say the least.Remember this is an elected Republican chairman of one of the most important counties in the largest Republican state in the country.The following tweets are not exactly safe for work.
Much of the Bush family should be in Jail.
Rick Perry is (was) a rampaging bisexual adulterer.
https://t.co/Bn5y4puIJR Robert Morrow (@RobMorroLiberty) March 2, 2016GHW Bush, CIA drug smuggler 1980's.
Homosexual pedophile involved with Franklin pedophile ring.
October Surprise.
https://t.co/k01SQjqLs2 Robert Morrow (@RobMorroLiberty) March 2, 2016So do all your sexual fantasies about Hillary Clinton involve "snuff films?"
Probably not good for most of you Bill to answer that question Robert Morrow (@RobMorroLiberty) February 28, 2016The simply astronomical amount of fully insane conspiracy theories, vulgar references, homophobic, misogynistic, bigoted, racist and otherwise generally offensive things on his twitter are impossible to describe with mere words.
If you are particularly brave and have some free time, you can entertain yourself by reading it HERE.Morrow goes on to say Hillary Clinton is a bull dyke, that she has had more female partners than Bill (an obvious dig at Bill s alleged history of affairs), and that Chelsea Clinton is actually some other man s daughter.
Morrow is an equal opportunity offender, though, and accuses Marco Rubio of attending gay foam parties, and said he needs to be in gay underwear advertisements.
In fact, he compared the entire Republican National Committee to a gay foam party.
The RNC is a gay foam party https://t.co/xEhcnObTa0 Robert Morrow (@RobMorroLiberty) February 27, 2016Pretty sure George W. Bush can suck a dick better than Hillary Clinton https://t.co/sZFJdcujd2 Robert Morrow (@RobMorroLiberty) March 2, 2016For a totally heterosexual Republican, this guy thinks about gay stuff more than actual gay people.
Morrow also had a now deleted Facebook page, where he posted many grossly offensive things about Hillary Clinton.
Just one example is below:Hillary Clinton masturbation fantasy update.
3 HOURS 27 MINUTES 15 SECONDS.
What is wrong with me?
I am I getting old?
Losing the passion?
No matter how much I sniff Hillary s panties which I bought off of Ebay, I can NEVER seen to be able to last more than 4 hours choking the chicken while thinking about her.
[Facebook, 11/13/13]Source: Media MattersI am not going to be adding more of the Facebook posts because the one above is probably the tamest out of all of them.
If you really want to see more you can follow the link to Media Matters above.
Remember, I warned you about them.Surprisingly, other Texas Republicans seem to be suddenly shocked by this and are now vowing to force Morrow out of office.Morrow s Vice Chairman, Matt Mackowiak, had this to say: We will explore every single option that exists, whether it be persuading him to resign, trying to force him to resign, constraining his power, removing his ability to spend money or resisting any attempt for him to access data or our social media account, Mackowiak told the Tribune.
I m treating this as a coup and as a hostile takeover.
Source: LatestMorrow s response to the Texas Tribune regarding the threat was tell them they can go f-ck themselves.
Mackowiak commented further on the situation: We have someone who ran here who absolutely has no intention of serving the Republican Party with leadership and faithfulness, Mackowiak said.
His social media account is something that no child should see.
He is a total disaster.
Source: Texas Star TribuneAll I have to say is this: Republicans asked for it.
Ever since 2008 when Obama won his first election, the entire Republican party on every level from local to federal has embraced the worst of the worst of the worst of their ultra right-wing fringe lunatics.
It guaranteed them an easily motivated and manipulated voting base.
However, now they have to deal with the mess they ve wrought and in many cases, they are simply powerless to do so.Mackowiak has said he and other county legislators are even considering forming a Republican splinter cell in Travis County, to form a new organization to usurp the existing one if they have no options to force Morrow out of office.Morrow will assume his post in June.
If you re a liberal in Travis County, tell a Republican friend Told ya so!
Featured image via Youtube