A GOP lobbyist who s known for his own brand of bigotry has denounced Trump in a completely unprecedented way.
Instead of vowing to vote for Hillary, or, at least, saying Trump isn t fit to be president like other Republicans have, he s actually called on Attorney General Loretta Lynch to investigate Trump for corruption.Yes, he really did that.
Jack Burkman, who s president of his own lobbying firm, is primarily concerned with Trump s penchant for expecting favors from people to whom he s donated campaign money.
In fact, as LawNewz said, he used that exact thing to prove that our political system is broken during the first GOP debate in August of last year: I give to everybody.
When they call, I give.
And you know what?
When I need something from them, two years later, three years later, I call them.
They are there for me.
He also said those words to Rolling Stone.
Other instances of Trump s admissions to possible corruption are listed in Burkman s letter to Lynch, including an interview with the Wall Street Journal, and when he formally accepted the Republican nomination for president.
Trump has made a habit of talking about how he knows that lawmakers will do anything for anyone who gives them money.Burkman, who wrote the letter on his lobbying firm s stationery, said: In Florida, Attorney General Pam Bondi considered joining a New York suit against the real estate mogul over the allegedly fraudulent Trump University.
Ms. Bondi received a $25,000 donation to her campaign.
And Florida did not join that suit against Trump University.
An aide to Bondi said that she actually solicited that donation, which makes it worse.As galling as it is to side with a Republican lobbyist on anything at all, Burkman is making a good point.
While nobody can make specific accusations of corruption against Trump right now, just the situation in Florida is very suspicious.
It s so suspicious that Burkman isn t the only person to call for an investigation into that.
Boston attorney Whitfield Larrabee has called on the IRS to investigate that, too, since the donation came from Trump s non-profit foundation.When combined with his bragging that he s repeatedly gamed the system, along with all the money he s given to other lawmakers representing districts in which he s got business interests, it paints a very grim picture indeed.It s not like we don t have an idea that Trump is corrupt.
That s almost a given at this point.
What s surprising is that we have a GOP lobbyist calling on a Democratic attorney general, appointed by a president that Republicans hate with the fire of a thousand suns, to investigate the man at the top of their ticket.Burkman concluded his letter with this: If Mr. Trump has never engaged in any political corruption, why would he repeatedly gloat about his gaming of the system?
If he did, then he should be investigated, prosecuted and if convicted, imprisoned.The blatant effusive nature of his public statements should be considered nothing short of a challenge to the U.S. Department of Justice and whether the agency would bother to investigate whether he has, In fact, crossed the line between politics as usual and corruption.
Lynch should at least take this seriously enough to look into it.
There s just too much there to ignore.Featured image by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images