Brave White House press secretary Sean Spicer had an odd appropriate reaction after his boss abruptly fired the man who was leading an investigation into his administration s ties to Russia.
Spicer had just finished a brief interview with Fox Business from the White House grounds late Tuesday night then he took cover in the bushes to avoid questions, according to The Washington Post.
Spicer huddled with his staff behind a tall hedge.
To get back to his office, Spicer would have to pass a swarm of reporters wanting to know why Trump abruptly fired FBI director James Comey.The White House press secretary had to get back to his office somehow but to do that he needed to pass a swarm of reporters.Spicer and his staff turned themselves into pretzels for hours in an attempt to defend Trump s bizarre decision to fire Comey.The Washington Post reports:Spicer had wanted to drop the bombshell news in an emailed statement, but it was not transmitting quickly enough, so he ended up standing in the doorway of the press office around 5:40 p.m. and shouting a statement to reporters who happened to be nearby.
He then vanished, with his staff locking the door leading to his office.
The press staff said that Spicer might do a briefing, then announced that he definitely wouldn t say anything more that night.
But as Democrats and Republicans began to criticize and question the firing with increasing levels of alarm, Spicer and two prominent spokeswomen were suddenly speed-walking up the White House drive to defend the president on CNN, Fox News and Fox Business.Between appearances, Spicer spent several minutes hidden in the bushes, as one does when their boss is totally not guilty.
Janet Montesi, an executive assistant in the press office, emerged from the bushes (and this does not look suspicious at all) and told reporters that Spicer would answer some questions, as long as they did not film him.
That s when Spicer came out of his safe place to face questions from reporters.
Just turn the lights off.
Turn the lights off, Spicer demanded.
We ll take care of this.
Can you just turn that light off?
Spicer s wish was granted and he found himself standing in near darkness between two tall hedges, with more than a dozen reporters closely gathered around him.
For 10 minutes, he responded to a flurry of questions.Spicer had to answer questions as he stammered and hemmed and hawed.
Spicer was asked when Trump and Comey spoke?
last.
Uh, I don t know.
I don t know.
There s some I don t know.
I don t know, he said.Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images.