FORMER CONSERVATIVE darling Tomi Lahren made a big deal about her upcoming appearance on The View.
I know, because I set the alarm on my phone to remind me when she would be on their show so I wouldn t miss it.
I figured there would certainly be fireworks, and at the very least, a few memorable moments with the marxist loudmouth hosts of The View.
I thought if nothing else, it would be entertaining to see her put Joy Behar in her place.
People have come to know and love The Blaze s conservative firebrand Tomi Lahren for her outspoken commentary on current political and social issues.
Until now, most of us have believed that she actually meant what she was telling us.
When she finally appeared on The View last Friday, she was mostly dealt softball questions and her answers were clearly more about getting along with the angry hosts than the defense of conservatism.
That s okay I could live with that.
As disappointed as I was in her wimpy responses to their ridiculous questions, nothing could have prepared me for the moment she decided to step out of her conservative persona and cross-over to the dark side, when host Sonny Hostin asked her about her position on abortion.Lahren: No, I m pro-choice, and here s why.
I am a constitutional, you know, someone that loves the constitution.
I am someone who is for limited government.
So I can t sit here, and be a hypocrite and say I m for limited government, but I think that the government should I think that the government should decide what a woman can do with their bodies.
I can t sit here and say that as a Republican.
And I can say, ya know what, I m for limited government, so stay out of my guns and you can stay out of my body as well.
Joy Behar jumped in (panting with excitement): You need to go out and speak to women about that.
Lahren responded: I do.
I do every day.
And I get a lot of attacks from conservative women as well.
I think it s equal hate from all sides for me.
Really Tomi?
You argue with women every day about your position on abortion?
Maybe you can explain how only 3 months ago, you called people like Lena Dunham who were pro choice straight up baby killers!
(Watch 2nd video below)Here is a short clip showing the abortion exchange: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gOT3EiKCL-w&feature=youtu.beHere s Lahren calling anyone who is pro-choice a straight up baby killer .
Note the Christmas tree in the background.
That s because this video is only 3 months old.
Wow apparently a lot happens in 3 months!
Does she realize how damaging she is to her own narrative?
Think about it: the pro-choicers are supposed to be about rare and safe abortions.
That s how they avoid sounding like straight-up baby killers.Then we have Lena freakin Dunham out there wishing she could have murdered a fetus.
Wishing for the option to kill your child doesn t exactly say much about the cause, her character, or the pro-choice movement.And here I thought the loving Left were all about peace, and love, and light, except when it comes to the unborn, I suppose.
Then it s a different story, a story they write and rewrite to fit their narrative.