Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan has been getting slammed ever since the moment he announced his endorsement of Donald Trump and that s not going to stop anytime soon.On Friday morning, Morning Joe s Mika Brzezinski didn t hesitate to rip Ryan a new one for being pathetic and weak enough to cave in and support the disgraced presumptive Republican nominee.
A visibly frustrated Brzezinski said, Yet another Republican goes down, for no reason, with no actual information about what convinced him.
Guest panelist Mark Halperin tried to defend Ryan against Brzezinski s wrath by saying that Ryan basically had no choice, but Brzezinski wasn t having any of it.
She went right into a scathing rant about what a bad move it was.
She said: To your line about Ryan had no choice, which is pathetic, because this election is unlike any other, the rule book has been thrown out.
So that no choice thing?
Put it back into the 80 s and 90 s and early 2000 s, because there are new rules.This is just so sad.
Paul Ryan the guy who I think is the Republican s great hope is an honest, good, principled man of character.
What is he if he had a good reason, I m all for it.Brzezinski criticized Ryan for not being able to live by his principles and had a very special message for the House Speaker: Paul?
He s not going to do anything for you because you did this.
He s not going to pay you back.
It s pathetic, he sold out.
I m sorry, he did have a choice and he made one that was weak.
You can watch Brzezinski tear Ryan a new one below:This is a definite change from Morning Joe s history of supporting Trump.
Earlier this year, the hosts were humiliated and exposed when leaked audio was circulated of Brzezinki and co-host Joe Scarborough expressing their support and fawning all over Trump during commercial breaks when he was on their show.
Perhaps that s changed now, unless this is just another facade but judging from Trump s reaction, it might have been real.
When Trump caught wind of Brzezinki s comments, he attacked the show:Featured image via Paul Morigi and Alex Wong / Getty Images