It s no secret that Russia is very pro-Donald Trump, and Donald Trump is extremely pro-Russia.
His policies align with Russia s Christmas list, and he hired for a campaign manager a man who benefited heavily from pro-Russian monies during the Ukrainian conflict.
In fact, the ties between Paul Manafort and Russian oligarchs became so widely known that it caused his premature departure from the campaign, prompting many questions to be raised.The Trump campaign thought this would all be behind them in no time.But, as usual, they were wrong.On Friday, it was a announced that U.S. intelligence officials are investigating Carter Page, a foreign policy adviser to Trump, for alleged ties to Russia.
Intelligence officials have reason to believe that Page has opened up secret and backroom communications with top Russian officials in an ongoing effort to have economic sanctions lifted.According to Yahoo News, which first broke the story:The activities of Trump adviser Carter Page, who has extensive business interests in Russia, have been discussed with senior members of Congress during recent briefings about suspected efforts by Moscow to influence the presidential election, the sources said.
After one of those briefings, Senate minority leader Harry Reid wrote FBI Director James Comey, citing reports of meetings between a Trump adviser (a reference to Page) and high ranking sanctioned individuals in Moscow over the summer as evidence of significant and disturbing ties between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin that needed to be investigated by the bureau.The reports apparently had some members of Congress taken aback, due to the overwhelming and disturbing evidence that shows these ties.
Congressional members, which includes California Democrat Dianne Feinstein, fear that such ties could lead to an unfair tampering with not only U.S.-Russian relations, but undercut foreign policy and even the November presidential election.Page is a former banker who worked for Merrill Lynch and is based in Moscow, giving him strong ties with rich and influential Russian officials.
In fact, one of Page s business buddies is especially problematic for American diplomacy and international law:But U.S. officials have since received intelligence reports that during that same three-day trip, Page met with Igor Sechin, a longtime Putin associate and former Russian deputy prime minister who is now the executive chairman of Rosneft, Russian s leading oil company, a well-placed Western intelligence source tells Yahoo News.
That meeting, if confirmed, is viewed as especially problematic by U.S. officials because the Treasury Department in August 2014 named Sechin to a list of Russian officials and businessmen sanctioned over Russia s illegitimate and unlawful actions in the Ukraine.So now that that the Trump campaign is once again under the microscope for shady Russian ties, they did what they know best: they lied.
Page has been listed as a foreign policy adviser to Trump since March.
In August, Hope Hicks, spokeswoman for the campaign, confirmed that Carter was an adviser.
Now?
Communications director Jason Miller told The Hill that Page is not an adviser and has made no contribution to the campaign.
So which is it?
The campaign and its spokeswoman have confirmed that Page is in fact an adviser, and now their communications director says he s not nor has he ever been.It s becoming clearer and clearer everyday that the Trump campaign is nothing more than a puppet of the Kremlin and Putin s rich, thuggish buddies.
But no, let s continue to talk about Hillary Clinton s pneumonia, because that s way more important than a potentially stolen election by the same people supporting one of the candidates.Featured image via Mark Makaela/Getty Images