After learning that Bill Nye had been very publicly demolishing her new climate change denial movie, Sarah Palin lashed out at the beloved science communicator with the ultimate insult saying he s as dumb as she is.In what might be the most mismatched battle of intellect in history, Palin and Nye have recently gone toe-to-toe over an upcoming documentary meant to prove climate change is a lie called Climate Hustle.
The film is produced by infamous right-wing climate denier Marc Morano and is billed as the long-awaited response to Al Gore s Oscar-winning An Inconvenient Truth.
Palin, a woman whose catchphrase is Drill, baby, drill is the film s chief promoter.For a brief moment it appeared that Nye would actually get a chance to debate Palin over climate science face-to-face, however the deal quickly fell through.
The two sides have been trading barbs online ever since.
Nye seemingly put the matter to rest with a final Facebook post in which he explained: Marc Morano did not invite me to his movie but he said I refused to come after he did invite me he was making that up, Nye said in a video posted on his Facebook page.
It s disingenuous, at best.
Morano did interview Nye and a clip in which he humiliates himself by refusing to put his money where his mouth is with a simple $20,000 bet quickly went viral.Never one to know when to keep her mouth shut, Palin has now jumped into the fray and hilariously tried to attack Nye s credibility by comparing it to her own.As The Hill caught at an event on Capitol Hill:Palin, the former governor of Alaska and the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate, said the man known for his show Bill Nye the Science Guy, is using his position of authority to harm children by teaching them that climate change is real and man-made.Palin said behind the alarmism that the climate is changing is a predetermined and political agenda of those, I think, who are controlling the narrative right now on changes in the weather.
The irony of a half-term governor and now reality television star criticizing Bill Nye for his science credentials is rich.
And while Nye doesn t currently work as a research scientist, he received a Bachelors of Science from Cornell in mechanical engineering and spent his early career teaching astronomy and ecology courses at the college level.
Furthermore, he s been honored with dozens of prestigious awards for his work at being an effective communicator of science (a job that is sorely needed).
He s dedicated his life to passing along oftentimes complex scientific ideas in a way that is digestible and fun.In terms of climate science, Nye isn t a leading authority doing the cutting edge research but he listens to the people who are.
Palin, of course, hasn t bothered to listen to a scientist once in her career.
Instead, she s latched onto Morano, a man who viciously smeared respected climatologists to push his climate denial agenda.
Before being humiliated by Nye during his own interview, Morano s last claim to fame was appearing on Fox News to complain that Google was unfairly discriminating against his articles by fact-checking them.Who would you trust?Featured image via Getty