Legendary newsman Dan Rather has lived through and covered several presidencies so he knows what he s talking about.Rather was just a boy of 13 when Franklin D. Roosevelt died in 1945.
In 1950, he began his career in journalism while Harry Truman was in office.Since then, Rather has witnessed every presidential beginning and has even reported on them.And according to Rather, Donald Trump s first two months in the presidency are the worst he has ever seen.Rather posted his observation on Facebook early Monday morning, even going so far as to quip that the only president who had a worse start was William Henry Harrison, who died one month after being sworn in.We re roughly two months into the Trump Presidency, and it is the worst start to a time in office I have ever seen.
I am not alone in this conclusion.
Many Presidential scholars are saying it s the worst start of any Presidency in the history of the country.Now William Henry Harrison in 1841 talked too long in the cold of his inauguration.
He caught pneumonia and died a month later.
So, yes, I suppose you could say that his time was worse.One of those Presidential scholars is Douglas Brinkley, who said that that Trump s administration is so bad that treason is hanging over it.
This is the most failed first 100 days of any president, Brinkley concluded.Rather then briefly listed some of Trump s failures.So after two tumultuous, chaotic and in many ways outrageous months (an embarrassing defeat on ACA repeal, the deepening Russia probe, the striking down of the travel ban) where do we stand?
Where does all of this go?Rather went on to warn the American people that a weak President running a weak, ragtag administration is a prescription for trouble.
Trouble internationally could come from enemies and other competitors who may see opportunities for advantage and overreach.
Trouble internally could easily come from a worried, divided nation, and opportunistic ideologues and politicians who try to exploit the situation.Rather concluded by urging people to remain vigilant and continue fighting.Donald Trump and his entire administration is a bad joke.
He has turned our nation into a laughingstock around the world and has repeatedly demonstrated that he is incompetent.Trump should resign before he embarrasses our country and himself even further.Featured Image: Matthew Eisman/Getty Images