Donald Trump has shown throughout the presidential campaign a repeated habit of lying again and again about every issue under the sun.
Trump seems to be so enamored of lying that he often does so without any logical reason behind it even for a politician.The Associated Press did some digging into yet another Trump claim and it turns out that he s lying, this time about children.Attacking government-funded universal pre-K programs, Trump said that he favored programs administered by private businesses, instead of the government.
As an example he cited programs supposedly utilized by his own businesses.He said, They call em Trump Kids.
Another one calls it Trumpeteers, if you can believe it.
I have em.
I actually have em, because I have a lot of different businesses.
But it turns out those programs aren t for Trump s employees.But the two programs Trump cited Trump Kids and Trumpeteers are programs catering to patrons of Trump s hotels and golf club.
They are not for Trump s employees, according to staff at Trump s hotels and clubs across the country.
Trump Kids is described on the Trump Hotel Collection website as a special travel program designed to help make your next family vacation a big hit.
Its offerings include kid-friendly amenities like kiddie cocktails, coloring books and no-tear bath amenities.
The Trumpeteer Program is described on the website of Trump National Golf Club in Charlotte, North Carolina, as a program created specifically for our youngest members, ages three to twelve, which offers daily and evening child care, monthly newsletters and weekly events!
AP also interviewed Trump employees and asked if they provide child care.
They said no.
The AP also checked out employee handbooks from Trump s business, and none of them mention child care services.
When they asked the campaign about the candidate s lie, they responded with a stock statement and avoided answering the question directly.It s just one more example of how Trump and his campaign is trying to lie its way into the White House.
Luckily, it doesn t seem to be working.Featured image via Flickr