Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright has never been the type of person to hold back when she sees stupidity, and Donald Trump just felt the burn of her disapproval.On Wednesday, the Republican frontrunner attempted to appear presidential by laying out his foreign policy plans.
The speech was just like him, full of emptiness and bullshit.
He attacked President Obama s foreign policy again and again, painting him as weak on terrorism and blaming him for the problems in the Middle East.
Surprisingly, however, the marmalade-tinted imbecile didn t talk about his Great Wall of Murica at all.
Later that evening, though, former Secretary Albright laid into the billionaire on Twitter.She said that she was posting on the social media site because it is Trump s favourite method of communication and then promptly destroyed his policies:Today, @realDonaldTrump tried out a foreign policy speech something I have experience with.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016 So I thought I d respond using his favorite method of communication and tackle some of the #TrumpDoctrine s biggest flaws head on.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016Trump demonstrates no real understanding of complex international issues and has no serious proposals for how to address them.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016 Trump speaks about regaining the trust of our allies, but then threatens to pull out of NATO.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016Trump preaches unpredictability as a policy, then asks us to trust him with the nuclear codes.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016 Trump s understanding of trade policy is simplistic at best, and would have disastrous effects on our economy.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016Trump praises Western values, then questions why we should support democracy in other countries.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016 Trump s views on torture are completely out of sync with recommendations by military leaders and America s values.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016Trump s newest slogan is America First, recalling the self-defeating isolationism of the 1930s.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016 Trump s proposals to ban Muslims and deport immigrants would undermine America s greatest strengths: diversity and tolerance.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016The so-called #TrumpDoctrine is simply bellicose rhetoric strung together with contradictory statements.
Bluster is no strategy, Mr. Trump.
Madeleine Albright (@madeleine) April 27, 2016OUCH!Secretary Albright said everything we have been saying all along: Trump is in over his head.
He entered this presidential race without any clear vision for the future, let alone a basic understanding of foreign policy.
It would be disastrous if this man were ever allowed to dictate policy with our allies.
He has no idea what the hell he is doing and would destroy this country and our relationships with the other world powers.One thing was blatantly obvious yesterday: the stakes are too high to sit at home and pout in November.
Democrats must come together and keep this lunatic out of the White House; so, vote blue no matter who.Featured image via Paul Marotta/Getty Images