More bad news for Lyin Loretta or Lyin Lizzie, depending upon who Obama s former AG (the chief law enforcement officer and chief lawyer of the United States government) decided she needed to be on any given day.So much for Obama s most transparent government ever LOL!On Friday internet sleuth Kim Dotcom dropped a bomb on Twitter.Kim posted an email Friday showing Loretta Lynch using an alias to contact DOJ officials.Yesterday, we reported about the new DOJ emails that were released to the American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ) as part of an ongoing investigation into the secret meeting between former AG Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton, whose wife Hillary Clinton, was under investigation by the FBI at the time of the meeting.One of those emails reveals that Obama s crooked AG Loretta Lynch, was hiding her name, and using her grandmother s name (Elizabeth Carlisle) as an alias:Melanie Newman from the Department of Justice leaked it in the email.
And AG Lynch (Elizabeth Carlisle) then responded with a thanks to all who worked on this.
Here is Kim DotCom s tweet:BREAKING: Did Loretta Lynch use an alias to communicate with DOJ officials and why?
Who is Elizabeth Carlisle?
Dear Internet, investigate!
pic.twitter.com/oqngTKDhLY Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom) August 5, 2017Here s another example of an email where Lyin Lynch used her grandmother s name:DOJ FOIA request dump, on page 210, it appears DOJ employees are sending someone named Elizabeth Carlisle email messages meant for Lynch.
pic.twitter.com/wshcRpWGD6 Washington's Ghost (@solight111) August 5, 2017Now this Reddit The Donald users discovered that Loretta Lynch used her grandmother s maiden name Lizzie Carlisle as her alias.Loretta s grandmother s name is Lizzie Carlisle Harris.
Loretta s mother s name is Lorine Harris Lynch.Here is her grandmother s death certificate.h/t Gateway Pundit As it turns out, Lyin Loretta wasn t the Obama s only AG to use an alias while conducting government business.
According to Buzzfeed investigative reporter Jason Leopold, Obama s first crooked AG Eric Holder also used the alias Lew Alcindor in his official government capacity:3 yrs later.
DOJ responds to my #FOIA re: media leaks.
Here's a few emails from "Lew Alcindor" aka Eric Holder https://t.co/MZfqnnW4Hz Jason Leopold (@JasonLeopold) March 3, 2017