The Government-Orchestrated Bankruptcies Of General Motors And Chrysler Led To Tens Of Thousands Of Direct Factory, Supplier And Other Related Job Cuts.
While government influence at decade s end helped Detroit recover financially, the government-orchestrated bankruptcies of General Motors and Chrysler led to tens of thousands of direct factory, supplier and other related job cuts.
The primary benefit of the U.S. industry restructuring for employment has been the balance of jobs saved rather than jobs created.
(John Crawley, Analysis: Obama Seeks Lift From Detroit Auto Jobs, Reuters, 1/12/12)TARP Inspector General: Tens Of Thousands Of Jobs Were Lost Due To Hasty Factory Closings.
The report by Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program of the Treasury Department, said both carmakers needed to shut down some underperforming dealerships.
But it questioned whether the cuts should have been made so quickly, particularly during a recession.
The report, released on Sunday, estimated that tens of thousands of jobs were lost as a result.
(Nick Bunkley, TARP Audit Questions Rush To Close Auto Dealers, The New York Times, 7/18/10)Ford Motor Company announced Tuesday it will cancel a $1.6 billion plant planned for Mexico and will instead invest $700 million in a Michigan assembly plant, directly tying the decision to pro-growth policies championed by President-elect Donald Trump.Trump had previously been critical of Ford s plans to build in Mexico.
After the announcement, Trump tweeted a link to a story about the Ford decision and then added in a subsequent message: Instead of driving jobs and wealth away, AMERICA will become the world s great magnet for INNOVATION & JOB CREATION.
We re doing this decision based on what s right for our business, Ford CEO Mark Fields told Neil Cavuto on Fox Business Network.
As we think about the investments here in Michigan, as you can imagine, Neil, we look at a lot of factors as we make those.
One of the factors that we re looking at is a more positive U.S. manufacturing business environment under President-elect Trump and some of the pro-growth policies he said he s going to pursue.
And so this is a vote of confidence.
FOX News