In 2013 Dr Kermit Gosnell was convicted of killing four people, including three babies, but is thought to have killed hundreds, perhaps thousands more in a 30-year killing spree.Gosnell is currently serving three life sentences (without the possibility of parole) for murdering babies and patients at his House of Horrors abortion clinic.This book now a major movie starring Dean Cain (Lois & Clarke) reveals how the investigation that brought Gosnell to justice started as a routine drugs investigation and turned into a shocking unmasking of America s biggest serial killer.
It details how compliant politicians and bureaucrats allowed Dr. Gosnell to carry out his grisly trade because they didn t want to be accused of attacking abortion.
Gosnell also exposes the media coverup that saw reporters refusing to cover a story that shone an unwelcome spotlight on abortion in America in the 21st century.Gosnell is an astounding piece of investigative journalism revealing a coverup among the medical political and media establishments that allowed a killer to go undetected for decades.Newsbusters Among other things, Gosnell was convicted May 2013 of first-degree murder of three babies (while the nightmarish Grand Jury report, The Hollywood Reporter has noted, alleges Gosnell killed hundreds of infants by sticking scissors into their necks ).On Tuesday, The New York Times responded to a Regnery statement Thursday criticizing the news outlet for refus[ing] to include Gosnell on their nonfiction Print Hardcover Best Sellers list.
While Gosnell made No.
13 on the Times Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction list, Regnery still accused the news outlet because it ignored the real sales numbers and refused to correctly list Gosnell as the 4th bestselling nonfiction title.
The publishing company argued that Gosnell reached No.
3 on Amazon s best-seller book list and was named Amazon s No.
1 Hot New Release.
This was all without any mainstream media attention no reviews, no features, no author interviews, the statement added.A New York Times representative defended the outlet s methodology Tuesday in a comment to MRC Culture:The Times s best-seller lists are based on a detailed analysis of book sales from a wide range of retailers who provide us with specific and confidential context of their sales each week.
These standards are applied consistently, across the board in order to provide Times readers our best assessment of what books are the most broadly popular at that time.She added, That process is not influenced in any way by the content of a book, or by pressure from publishers or book sellers.
Unfortunately, the Gosnell story has faced media silence from the very beginning.
Even Gosnell s trial, in which witnesses described baby abortion survivors swimming in toilets to get out, attracted a mere 12 15 reporters.
And that came only after a local columnist tweeted a picture of the empty courtroom benches reserved for press.
Only after 56 days, multiple letters from members of the House of Representatives and a public outcry, did all three broadcast networks report on Gosnell.Watch Megyn Kelly tear Dr. Gosnell s attorney who attempts to make her viewers believe Dr. Gosnell was a good guy and a perfect gentleman after he was convicted of murder:From the authors, Ann McElhinney and Phelim McAleer:The newspaper has admitted it does not use sales numbers to decide which books are allowed on its Best Sellers List .
For The New York Times the numbers of books bought by real people don t matter.
According to a statement they take into account the context of the sales.
The context????
?According to The New York Times this context allows them to provide Times readers our best assessment of what books are the most broadly popular at that time.
In other words to hell with the numbers we will decide what is popular and you can be sure it won t be a truthful book revealing the truth about abortion even though that is what people are buying.
The New York Times Best Sellers List is a Fake List in a Fake Newspaper.Well we need to send a message to these elites who seem to hate the the truth.Please send this link www.GosnellBook.com to as many people as you can and buy as many copies as you can.
Give them to friends or donate them to your local library.
We need to make sure that the mainstream media can no longer ignore this book or the truth about Kermit Gosnell.
They tried to coverup the case when he was on trial.
We defeated them then and we can do it again.The cover-up stops now.Thank you, Ann and Phelim