The federal judge overseeing two of the three fraud cases against Donald Trump has advised all parties to settle given all else that s involved.
Presumably, he s talking about Trump s disgustingly shocking win on Election Day.
It looked a lot like Trump might actually be held accountable for his actions despite the win, but now the trial might not even take place.Curiel said: It would be wise for the plaintiffs, for the defendants, to look closely at trying to resolve this case given all else that s involved.
He also said he d allow Trump to testify via video due to his new obligations in Washington.
Besides that, he told Trump s lawyers that they could again request that specific campaign statements be withheld from both the jury and himself.Earlier, Addicting Info writer Wendy Gittleson reported that a lawyer believes Trump could be impeached very quickly after taking office because of these lawsuits.
All three suits involve charges of fraud and racketeering.
The reasoning was that there s a question of whether the legal aspects involved in these cases could rise to the level of impeachment.
If they did, it would probably be goodbye Trump since Congress wasn t too keen on him anyway.However, with Curiel advising the parties involved in the suits in his court to settle, it could actually quietly go away with Trump paying less than he might have otherwise, and it could remove a potential block to four years of Trump in the White House.Earlier this month, the woman who was suing Trump for rape dropped her case after receiving death threats.
She had canceled a press conference, too, out of fear for her safety and life.
This is the woman that accused Trump of raping her when she was 13, and it s very, very likely she was terrorized into dropping the suit.There s still a fraud case relating to Trump U. pending in the New York attorney general s office.
Other than that, it s entirely possible that Trump will, more or less, get away with a slap on the wrist for this, depending on whether the plaintiffs agree to settle and agree to whatever Trump proposes as a settlement.Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images