She s the most crooked criminal to ever seek the office of President of the United States.
The State Department says about 30 emails that may be related to the 2012 attack on U.S. compounds in Benghazi, Libya, are among the thousands of Hillary Clinton emails recovered during the FBI s recently closed investigation into her use of a private server.WATCH Hillary lie here:Government lawyers told U.S. District Court Judge Amit P. Mehta Tuesday that an undetermined number of the emails among the 30 were not included in the 55,000 pages previously provided by Clinton.
The State Department s lawyer said it would need until the end of September to review the emails and redact potentially classified information before they are released.The State Department says about 30 emails that may be related to the 2012 attack on U.S. compounds in Benghazi, Libya, are among the thousands of Hillary Clinton emails recovered during the FBI s recently closed investigation into her use of a private server.Clinton has previously maintained that the only server emails that were not handed over to the State Department were related to personal matters not having to do with her professional duties.Following the Benghazi email discovery, Jason Miller, Senior Communications Advisor for Donald Trump s presidential campaign said in a statement: Today s disclosure that 30 additional emails about Benghazi were discovered on Hillary Clinton s private server raises additional questions about the more than 30,000 emails she deleted.
Hillary Clinton swore before a federal court and told the American people she handed over all of her work-related emails.
If Clinton did not consider emails about something as important as Benghazi to be work-related, one has to wonder what is contained in the other emails she attempted to wipe from her server.
Government lawyers told U.S. District Court Judge Amit P. Mehta Tuesday that an undetermined number of the emails among the 30 were not included in the 55,000 pages previously provided by Clinton.
The State Department s lawyer said it would need until the end of September to review the emails and redact potentially classified information before they are released.A law enforcement official also told The Associated Press on Tuesday that the FBI is expected to release documents soon related to its investigation, which focused on whether Clinton and her aides mishandled government secrets.The official, who wasn t authorized to discuss the matter by name and spoke on condition of anonymity, said documents in the case would be made public as the FBI responds to Freedom of Information Act requests.
It wasn t immediately clear when the documents would be released or exactly what they would include.For entire story: TIME