The movie that Hillary will NOT want America to see Hillary Clinton s staff are currently giving depositions under oath about how she got away with having an allegedly illegal private email server when conducting matters of national security.The depositions are being filmed, but Hillary s lawyers have managed to persuade a judge to block the release of the tapes in case they are used to make her look bad in the election!This is amazing and unacceptable that films, showing the truth are being blocked from the American people, especially in the run-up to an election.Film Director, Phelim McAleer and Producers Ann McElhinney and Magdalena Segieda have managed to find a way around this.
George Orwell described journalism as something somebody somewhere doesn t want published.
So they are going to commit a series of acts of journalism.The deposition transcripts have been released and they are re-enacting and filming highlights of the depositions.Here is a peek into what the film looks like so far:An URGENT Message from Film Director Phelim McAleer: Today we re releasing a film of Cheryl Mills deposition highlights, using the transcript her actual words.
Cheryl Mills has worked for the Clintons for almost 30 years.
She was Hillary s Chief of Staff at the State Department.Cheryl Mills evidence is amazing, full of classic Clintonian evasions.
She used the phrase I don t remember or I don t recall 189 times.
This deserves to be brought to a wider audience not censored and hidden away.
And we now have it on film.
(You can share the film with your friends by sending them to ClintonEmailsOnFilm.com.
)These short videos will be: The Films that Hillary Clinton Doesn t Want You to See.
There will be a total of five short films ending with Huma Abedin s deposition at the end of the month.
And if the depositions uncover enough evidence, then the judge could give them permission to depose Hillary.
That will be a great film!Here s how the #NeverHillary every day Americans can help make the movie that Hillary will NOT want America to see:We need your help to finish the videos.
The American people deserve to see what s being said in these depositions.
To make a video of each of the deposition, we need to raise at least $84,000.
We launched a crowdfuding campaign so people like yourself can donate and make these videos possible: www.ClintonEmailsOnFilm.comBy supporting this project, you re making a statement: TRUTH IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN POLITICS.Click HERE to donate!Please choose a perk, make a contribution, and spread this campaign far and wide.
Tell your friends, family, neighbors, and coworkers.
Send them to ClintonEmailsOnFilm.com.Let s send a message to Hillary and her lawyers: They can t stand in the way of the truth.Thank you for your support!