Republicans are already predicting doom and gloom for November.
Since Donald Trump seems not to grasp what get on message means (they ve been telling him to do that for months), members of the Republican Party are already predicting Hillary Clinton as the victor.In an exclusive with The Hill, several members of the House GOP caucus under anonymity, who back Trump, now say they are preparing for a Clinton sweep in November.One Southern lawmaker, who is a Trump supporter, told the Hill:I m not feeling great about the immediate future of the conservative movement right now.
As a conservative who believes our ideas are good for America, it is pretty gloomy these days.The southern lawmaker acknowledged Trump would be a difficult candidate to sell to the American people, considering the GOP s lack of a coalition with women, minorities, LGBT, and youth voters (yet they re still a Trump supporter), which means they don t care about the bran issues facing their party.
There was some hope that the disaffected, so-called silent majority would be broad enough and turn out in large enough numbers to give Trump a chance.
But if he continues the next 90 days like the last week, then he will lose big time, the southern lawmaker told the Hill.One Northeastern lawmaker was more candid with his feelings:I think it will be Hillary.
If I had to bet, I d definitely bet that Trump loses.
This is like a football game where you hate both teams.
You root for a tie and maybe some minor injuries.Right now, it sucks to be a Republican.
Rep. Matt Salmon, who originally backed Marco Rubio, then Ted Cruz and now Trump, admitted a Trump win will be a steep climb.
That s because the GOP didn t listen to their 2012 autopsy report, and they are paying the price.
But not all members of the GOP are ignoring the findings from their last loss in 2012.
Rep. Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania told the Hill that the GOP must learn from their autopsy report if they hope to win:Another autopsy will occur, and the next time I hope lessons will be learned.Fat chance that will happen.
They seriously thought Romney was going to beat President Obama, and decided to disregard all the points they missed when he didn t win.The GOP is bracing for a Clinton win, and so is the rest of he country anything is better than Donald Trump.Featured image via Joe Readle/Getty Images