It s pretty obvious that the FEC chairwoman is just another political hack for the left.
Ann M. Ravel is determined to regulate new media like Drudge and says she s frustrated that her last bid was met with threatening misogynist responses.
Be aware of this attempt at silencing free speech and political activity as we move towards the most important election of our time in 2016.Some irony from her speech: (around the 36 min.
mark) We have to talk to people to get them to understand the influence of government or governmental policies on their lives.
People have to realize that campaign finance and policies influenced by only a small number of people has a profound relationship on things that touch them in their daily lives.
You ve gotta love how our FEC Chairman refers to people who agree with her wanting to regulate political sites on social media as regular people.
After backing down amid concerns she wanted to regulate political speech, the chairwoman of the Federal Election Commission has renewed talk about targeting campaign and political activities on the internet.Ann M. Ravel, discussing election regulation during a speech in New York, suggested it was time to produce thoughtful policy targeting internet political activity.
She also expressed frustration that her last bid was met with threatening misogynist responses to me.
She was speaking at a day-long conference hosted by the Brennan Center for Justice, the New York City Campaign Finance Board, and the Committee for Economic Development when she was asked about regulating the internet, Google and Facebook.When the Democrats on the FEC first raised the possibility of regulations, opponents feared they were going to target conservative groups, activities and news sites.
A proposal to delve into the issue died in a 3-3 vote.Republican Commissioner Lee E. Goodman, the previous chairman, warned that regulations would silence voices on the internet and that sites with a political bent, even in the media, could face rules requiring them to disclose donors and finances.
Read more: WEHERE S THE VIDEO OF HER SPEECH SCARY STUFF!