Paul Ryan s omnibus spending bill gives Obama funding for his Syrian refugee scheme, Planned Parenthood, Obamacare, amnesty, NSA domestic spying, sanctuary cities for illegals, eliminates the budget sequester, and much more.
The bill is another 2,000 page whale that has become so common in the Obama era, so there hasn t even been enough time yet to parse the bill and find out what s in it.
Doesn t that sound like a former Speaker of the House?
And I m not talking about John Boehner.
No, in one fell swoop, Paul Ryan has turned out to be even worse than John Boehner.
This bill is downright Pelosian in its terribleness.
This is a slap in the face to the American people.
We hope that once you recover from shock after reading this list, you ll pick up the phone and call DC to voice your anger.
Please make the effort to jam the phone lines with angry patriots who are 100% FED Up!
with big government.
The Capitol Switchboard: 202-224-3121- Just call and ask for whomever you d like to yell at Here s a list of some of the most egregious things I ve been able to find about this bill.Bail outs for failing health insurance companies under Obamacare Massively expand the foreign worker program, quadrupling the issuance of low-wage visas Fund Obama s unconstitutional amnesty program Fund Planned Parenthood Fund the Paris climate deal Fund sanctuary cities for illegal immigrants Fund Obama s refugee programs Fund financial assistance to resettle illegal aliens within the United States Fund tax credits for illegal aliens Lock in massive spending increases and permanently eliminate the sequester cuts Fund NSA domestic spying Permanently ends the tax deduction for state and local sales taxes, forcing double and triple taxes on the same income Gives special tax breaks that aren t available to ordinary citizens to film companies, green energy companies, NASCAR, race horses, and more Delays the Obamacare Cadillac Tax, buying Democrats more time to preserve the law.
Funds a $390 million new headquarters for the FBI Extends tax credits to families that pay little or no taxes to begin with (which is just pure wealth redistribution) Increases spending at dozens of Federal agencies including Obama s corrupt Justice Department and the VA Funds Obama s Net Neutrality scheme Allows Obama s plan for a $500 million donation to the Green Climate Fund Funds the EPA s infringement on privately owned bodies of water Funds the EPA s infringement on coal power plants Funds a bailout for the failing IMF Makes it easier for Federal departments to spend more than their budgets allow for by offering changes in mandeory program spending.
Funds an expansion of the FAA s power (who, by the way, recently started regulating toy helicopters) Renews spending on the Department of Transportations stimulus program Funds a bailout for Puerto Rico s failing economy Allows the Federal Government to issue subpoenas without a judges signature for American s private emails Funds multi-billion giveaways to Jordan, Tunisia, and EgyptThere s more but this list is a start!Via: Poor Richard s News