All the pundits doubted her ability to do it, but she did it.
After four nights of hope, progress and inclusion, Hillary Clinton capped off the Democratic National Convention with a resounding speech of hope and change, echoing President Obama s speech the night before that America is not in decline we just need to keep believing and working.CNN s instant poll found that 85 percent of those who watched Mrs. Clinton s speech had a positive reaction (including 71 percent who had a very positive reaction), while only 12 percent saw it negatively.It paid off for Clinton handsomely.While the media was ecstatic about Trump s post convention bounce in the polls, the first comprehensive poll since the DNC showed something every Democrat should be hopeful about.A new blowout poll from RABA Research shows Secretary Clinton opening up a 15 point lead over Donald J. Trump, 46-31 percent, with third party candidates Gary Johnson capturing 7 percent and Jill Stein with 2 percent.
Fifteen percent of those polled were still unsure.RABA has given Clinton her largest lead over Donald Trump so far in 2016, and showed some striking pick-ups for the former secretary:RABA conducted its poll the day after the convention with a sample of 956 voters.
When RABA conducted the same poll just after the RNC, Clinton still led, but by only five points, meaning Clinton experienced a 10 point bounce post-DNC.Now that s a post-convention bounce.
Americans had both parties present their ideas, their nominees and leaders to them.
They have chosen wisely which side they want to be on.
Now is it likely Clinton would beat Donald Trump by 15 points?
Absolutely not.
But what RABA shows us (coupled with a new poll from Ipsos/Reuters showing Clinton leading by 6 points) offers us hope.Democrats have something to look forward to after the doom and gloom polls post-RNC convention.
Now it s up to those same Democrats to take that hope and make it a reality by voting in November, not just for Hillary Clinton, but for down-ticket candidates that promise to work with her and end the gridlock in Congress.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images