America got i s first true glimpse of a Trump presidency on the final night of the RNC.
Instead of a speech focused on the economy and bringing back jobs to the United States, the charade delivered by the Republican presidential candidate was filled with hate and fear, resembling an almost Nixon-esque rhetoric not seen in almost fifty years.The nation needs to wake up.
Luckily, we have Elizabeth Warren to help us do that.While appearing on CBS Late Night with Stephen Colbert immediately following Trump s speech, Warren (who has been rumored as a potential VP choice for Hillary Clinton), slammed the Republican candidate for sounding like a two-bit dictator and chided him for his divisive rhetoric: What Donald Trump says is there s a problem out there and what you have to understand is that it s all about each other.
What you need to be afraid of is every other American.
I ve got to tell you, that speech tonight, he sounded like some two-bit dictator of some country that you couldn t find on a map.
Through the applause and a hilarious defense of Trump from Colbert, Warren doubled down: He sounded like a dictator of a small country rather than a man who is running for the highest office of the strongest democracy on the face of the earth.
That s what he sounded like.
And just like that, Elizabeth Warren summed up exactly how we all feel.
To put it plainly, as Warren did, Donald Trump is a bad guy.
Elizabeth Warren has been a special thorn in Donald Trump s side.
No one, not the media or even Hillary Clinton, has gotten under Trump s skin more than she has.
An attack dog in her own right, Warren has been absolutely spot on in her criticism of the potential fascist-in-chief: he s a thin skinned, dictating fraud.We learned earlier this week that Trump has no plan to actually take on the domestic or foreign roles needed to make a great president.
That s what Mike Pence will be for.Hopefully Warren will reiterate her observations come the Democratic National Convention, where substance (not just venom) will be front and center for the whole country, and indeed the whole world, to see.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images