This year s Academy Awards nominations received loads of backlash for their lack of diversity, sparking a boycott and the widely used hashtag #OscarsSoWhite.The 88th Academy Awards was hosted by black comedian Chris Rock, who made sure to comment on the overwhelming whiteness in his brilliant monologue, where he spoke of how black actors deserved equal opportunities.
Here s just a sample of how Rock blasted the lack of diversity at the ceremony: I m here at the Academy Awards, otherwise known as White People s Choice Awards.
If they nominated hosts, I wouldn t even get this job.
Y all would be watching Neil Patrick Harris right now.
This year things are gonna be a little different at the Oscars.
This year, the In Memoriam package is just gonna be Black people shot by the cops on their way to the movies.
At the end of the awards ceremony, Rock closed the show with three important words: Black Lives Matter.
And as expected, Chris powerful human rights message was lost amongst racists, even those who work in the Hollywood industry.
Hollywood producer Juergen Pichler Levine even had the audacity to say that the Oscars were too black!
Levine posted (and then deleted) a meltdown that he shared with his 900,000 Instagram followers about the obscene number of black people at the Oscars.
Levine said, God bless America but not these monkeys and complained about Obama.Levine wasn t the only one.
Fox News had a field day when contributor Kevin Jackson ripped Rock over his remarks.
When host Brian Kilmeade asked Jackson about what he thought about Rock s remarks, Jackson said: It was tragic.
It was fun though watching a group of white racist liberals get put back on them the things that conservatives face every single day.
At the end of the day, you can t say that Hollywood is racist because blacks have been getting awards in proportionate numbers for the last couple of decades.
So at the same time I m watching these very sanctimonious liberals suffer, I also know that it s not good for the country that we go through this.
Jackson also said that Rock was solely responsible for the worst performance the Oscars had seen in years.
He argued: It was definitely one of the ones I wish I had a chance to miss.
I think it was more just this idea how he was treating Hollywood of being so racist because black people hadn t been nominated.
You can watch Jackson spit straight nonsense below:Even CNN s Carol Costello couldn t take the fact that racism still exists in America and watching it on television made it uncomfortable for her to sit smugly in her white privilege.
Her reaction was, Please stop and let me enjoy this for a moment.
Guest commentator Michaela Angela David agreed and said that the hashtag #OscarsSoAwkward would have been more appropriate.
You can watch the exchange below:Rock did a great job at the awards ceremony, regardless of what anyone says.
Sometimes the truth is uncomfortable, but we should not avoid exposing it just because it s hard to hear.
Featured image via video screen capture