Despite having to deal with an absolute imbecile as her challenger for several months, Hillary Clinton was always poised, gracious and respectful during the election and that hasn t changed, even after an undeserving Donald Trump won.However, Clinton hasn t forgotten that SHE was actually the candidate that the American people truly wanted.
In her final 2016 message to her supporters, the former Secretary of State made sure to note the fact that she d won the popular vote by almost 3 million more than Trump.
Of course, Clinton s supporters know very well how badly she beat him, but the President-elect and his followers are still in a disturbing amount of denial so it s useful to remind them of the facts once in a while.
True to form, Clinton did this in a subtle, classy manner.In her thank you note to her supporters, Clinton wrote: Before this year ends, I want to thank you again for your support of our campaign.
While we didn t achieve the outcome we sought, I m proud of the vision and values we fought for and the nearly 66 million people who voted for them.
Sixty-six million a number that Trump certainly cannot claim, as he just scraped by winning the election purely because of the Electoral College votes.
Knowing that she still has a responsibility to be an example and to fight for the American people, Clinton rallied her supporters to continue being stronger together.
She wrote: I believe it is our responsibility to keep doing our part to build a better, stronger, and fairer future for our country and the world.
The holidays are a time to be thankful for our blessings.
So let us rejoice in this season and look forward with renewed hope and determination.
Clinton closed her message by wishing her supporters a great new year, suggesting that this would hardly be the last time they hear from her.
She made it clear that she s going to continue working on America s behalf because that s REAL Presidents do, and that s what she s always done through her decades of service to this country: I wish you and your family health, happiness, and continued strength for the New Year and the work ahead.
I look forward to staying in touch in 2017.
Onward!
Featured image via Drew Angerer /Getty Images