The narrative regarding the Trump-Russia connection seems to be nothing to see here when it comes to supporters of the so-called president.
Donald Trump cannot abide anyone even suggesting that he had help to win in 2016, but the amount of smoke there with regards to the Russian hacking is too thick for there to be no fire.
Hell, his own son just admitted something extraordinary.
Donald Trump Jr. actually came out and said that he, Trump s son-in-law Jared Kushner, and former campaign manager Paul Manafort actually met with a lawyer with connections to the Kremlin.Apparently, this little secret pow wow occurred after Trump clinched the GOP nomination, and long before his many general election controversies, during a time where it seemed sure that he would lose.
Of course, Trump Jr. is saying that this meeting had nothing to with the election and everything to do with adopting Russian orphans.
He said of the encounter: We primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children that was active and popular with American families years ago and was since ended by the Russian government, but it was not a campaign issue at that time and there was no follow-up.
was asked to attend the meeting by an acquaintance, but was not told the name of the person I would be meeting with beforehand.
Of course, this is likely a lie.
Trump, his kids, and everyone else in his orbit lie routinely.
Further, think about who this meeting took place with Paul Manafort, who was the campaign manager at the time has known ties to pro-Russia Ukrainian politicians that he has worked for in the past.
In fact, it is what forced him to abruptly step aside.Further, the lawyer they met with at Trump Tower during the campaign, Natalia Veselnitskaya, is known around circles who promote sanctioning Russia for their many human rights abuses.
Veselnitskaya opposes said sanctions, and that was likely her reason for wanting to meet with Team Trump during the campaign.
The reason for the bizarre claims about adopting Russian children is the fact that in 2012, Russian dictator Vladimir Putin halted American adoption of Russian children, due to sanctions that specifically related to human rights violations.
This was called the Magnitsky Act, after a man who perished in an untimely and shady manner for blowing the whistle on Russian corruption.
It makes for a convenient but hardly believable cover story.All in all, this is shady and nobody in their right minds believes that Trump Jr., Paul Manafort, or anyone else on that campaign was meeting with a Kremlin backed lawyer over anything but money and sanctions.
These people are filthy as hell, and we need to get them out of our government.Featured image via David Becker/Getty Images