The atmosphere created by conservatives and their anti-transgender witch hunt is becoming more and more apparent by the day.
The trend started by North Carolina, with Texas in the process of following suit, is to restrict bathrooms to gender at birth.
In other words, a transgender woman with double-dee breasts who is wearing a miniskirt would be required to subject herself to harassment by going into the men s room to do her makeup.
To most, this is not in any way reasonable.
As someone who identifies as a woman, she belongs where she is most comfortable: the women s restroom.
But to the uneducated, unwashed religious bigots in our country, she should have to live her life in a constant state of discomfort.But the hysteria has reached a point that even cisgender (biological women who identify as women) must worry about the backlash when one of God s Chosen Imbeciles decides they don t look feminine enough.
One such woman is Aimee Toms, who was recently rudely informed that she doesn t belong in the women s restroom.
Why?Toms was minding her own business, simply washing her hands at a Walmart in Danbury, Connecticut on Friday when another woman approached her and informed her You re disgusting!
and You don t belong here!
At the time, Toms was wearing a baseball cap and had very short hair, so she says she can understand why someone might think she is transgender.
While her appearance doesn t matter one iota, the reason her hair was short at the time will make the bigot she encountered feel very, very stupid.
In a video she posted online, she informed her new hater: Do you know why my hair is so short?
In January, I made my third donation to Pantene s Beautiful Lengths Program.
Do you know what they do?
They take hair donations and they make them into wigs and they give them to cancer patients free of cost.
Now, I am damn happy to rock a pixie cut if some kid gets my hair and gets to wear it.
And that s worth it to me.You know what isn t worth it?
Being discriminated against in a bathroom by some fucking asshole who thinks they have a right to decide what gender I am and that they have a right to judge me for it.
After experiencing the discrimination they face firsthand, I cannot fathom the discrimination transgender people must face in a lifetime, she says.
Can you imagine going out every day and having people tell you you should not be who you are or that people will not accept you as who you are?
At this point, the hate is getting ridiculous.
Most people have used a restroom with someone who is transgender at some point in their lives without noticing.
If daytime talk shows are any indicator, there is a hefty supply of men who have had sexual relations with a woman who happens to have a penis and they didn t give a flying f*ck at the time.
People are people.
Transgender people are people who happen to have been born into the wrong body, so to speak.
There is no harm in a society allowing people to simply be who they are without fear of reprisals.
Unfortunately, the American Right disagrees because reasons.Watch Toms lay the smackdown on the haters below:https://www.facebook.com/never.shout.aimee/videos/vb.1473214698/10206543775341127/?type=3&theaterFeatured image via Newstimes