The Obama administration s cleansing of the Islamic terror attack in Orlando resonates with anyone in America who s on to the effort to pivot to gun control and away from Islam.
Everything about this is by design and SHOULD BE very disturbing to Americans on both sides of the aisle.
Democrats should be outraged that the government is suppressing information we should all have!
How could they NOT be!
Two key words were scrubbed in the transcript but are being reported now THESE TWO WORDS ARE A BIG DEAL!
The FBI on Monday released a partial transcript of the phone conversations the Orlando gunman had with law enforcement during the three hours he was holed up inside a gay nightclub with hostages but the decision to redact portions of the calls, including references made to Islamist terror groups, drew swift criticism.A call summary and partial transcript shows that gunman Omar Mateen first called 911 about 30 minutes after he opened fire and stormed Pulse nightclub, telling an emergency call taker that he was the shooter and making claims of allegiance that investigators are still vetting.
Praise be to God, and prayers as well as peace be upon the prophet of God [in Arabic], Mateen said according to the transcript.
I let you know, I m in Orlando, and I did the shootings.
He also falsely told law enforcement that cars outside the nightclub had explosives in them and that he was wearing a vest like the kind they used in France, making reference to explosive vests used in the Paris terror attacks.
FBI Director James Comey has previously said that Mateen pledged allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the Islamic State, as well as to various Islamist terror groups.
However the names of those groups and individuals were edited out of the transcripts released Monday.Law enforcement defended the selective editing, saying that they wanted to avoid re-victimizing those who lived through the attack or encouraging others to carryout similar attacks.The editing is meant to not give credence to individuals who have done terrorist acts in the past, said FBI Special Agent in Charge Ron Hopper.
We are not going to propagate their violent rhetoric.
But the decision not to release full transcripts of Mateen s 911 call or three crisis negotiator calls almost immediately drew criticism.
House Speaker Paul D. Ryan said the decision to edit out references to the Islamic State terrorist group was preposterous.
We know the shooter was a radical Islamist extremist inspired by ISIS.
We also know he intentionally targeted the LGBT community.
The administration should release the full, unredacted transcript so the public is clear-eyed about who did this, and why, the Wisconsin Republican said in a statement.
Agent Hopper said Monday that investigators still have no indication that Mateen, who identified himself as an Islamic solider, was directed to carry out the attacks by any foreign terrorist group organization.
Rather the gunman was radicalized domestically, he said.Read more: Washington Times