Donald Trump continued to unload on rival Ted Cruz as the reality star once again went on the attack on Sunday.Appearing on ABC s This Week, Trump talked about just how unlikeable Cruz is.
Nobody likes him, nobody in Congress likes him, nobody likes him anywhere once they get to know him, Trump said in an interview airing on ABC s This Week.
Trump also hit Cruz over his secret dark money loan that he secured from Goldman Sachs in order to win his Senate race.
Cruz failed to disclose the loan on forms submitted to the Federal Elections Commission.
He wants to look like Robin Hood, Trump said.
That he s the one protecting the people from the banks, while he s actually borrowing money and personally guaranteeing it and not disclosing it, which is illegal.
For months Trump and Cruz refused to directly attack each other, preferring to aim their arrows at other Republicans like Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio.
But now as Cruz has started nipping at Trump s heels in Iowa polls, the front runner has begun to give Cruz the business.For his part, Cruz has also fired back.
He accused Trump of having New York values a phrase that some have seen as a dog whistle to base Republican voters about New York s more diverse culture with is large population of Jewish people, gays, and minorities.Trump responded by pointing out that New York values are what terrorists targeted on 9/11.
To add insult to injury, Trump received praise for those comments from both Hillary Clinton (who was New York s senator at the time) and current New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio.Additionally, Trump has been concern trolling Cruz about his eligibility for the presidency.
Citing the fact that Cruz was born in Canada, Trump has been egging on Cruz to defend himself against possible challenges to his candidacy if he s the nominee.
Trump has been a long-time promoter of the conspiracy theory that President Obama was not born in the United States.Over the course of the race, Trump has shown a propensity to dig in and go nuclear in his attacks on anyone who directly challenges him, and this latest salvo directed at Cruz seems to signal that the next two weeks ahead of the caucus could be immensely entertaining.Featured image via YouTube