On Monday, it seemed that Donald Trump has given up on his recent effort to act presidential and went back to his normal, fear-mongering, bigotry-fueled program at a rally in Rhode Island.
Sensing that far too much time had gone by without an anti-Muslim rant, the Republican frontrunner urged his fans to lock their doors to stay safe from Syrian refugees that were resettled in the state.Suggesting that these refugees were affiliated with ISIS, Trump warned: Now here s one I don t like.
Syrian refugees are now being resettled in Rhode Island.
The crowd ate it up and booed the news Trump had just shared as he read off a piece of paper.
He continued: We don t know who these people are.
We don t know where they re from.
We don t know where they re from.
They have no documentation.
We all have hearts and we can build safe zones in Syria and we ll get the Gulf states to put up the money.
We re not putting up the money, but I ll get that done.
But you know what?
We can t let this happen.
But you have a lot of them resettling in Rhode Island.
Just enjoy your lock your doors, folks.
It seemed like the crowd didn t really know what to do with this information.
Some people laughed, others yelled.
Trump shouted: No, it s a big problem!
We don t know anything about them.
We don t know where they come from, who they are.
There s no documentation.
We have our incompetent government people letting em in by the thousands, and who knows, who knows, maybe it s ISIS.
Referencing the terrorist attack that happened in San Bernardino, California last December, where it is believed that the two Muslim suspects were inspired by ISIS, Trump added: You see what happens with two people that became radicalized in California where they shot and killed all their coworkers, OK?
Not with me, folks.
It s not happening with me.
You can watch Trump s rant below: Trump is correct that Syrian refugees have been resettled in Rhode Island, but that s the only truth to this horrific rant.
Many of these refugees have spent years getting all of their documents together and have endured in-depth interviews and near-flawless background checks before being allowed to enter America.This is just another line on the ever-growing list of disgusting anti-Muslim things Trump has said after he proposed that all Muslims should be banned from entering the United States.
Fully aware of the consequences of such hateful rhetoric, President Barack Obama recently called Trump s attitude toward Muslims dangerous.
Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images