The wives and mothers of these Republicans must be so embarrassed.During a House Committee on Energy and Commerce hearing on Thursday to discuss the GOP s destructive healthcare bill, which guts women s healthcare, Illinois Rep. John Shimkus had the audacity and the ignorance to whine about having to pay for prenatal care in his insurance plan and literally argued that men should not have to pay for such things.
Why should men pay for it?
Shimkus demanded to know.
I m just I is that not correct?
Should they?
Shimkus then proceeded to complain because insurance companies do not provide specific plans designed around each every person s individual needs and wants.Democratic Rep. Mike Doyle fired back by informing Shimkus that no insurance company in the world would do that because it s not as efficient and more complicated than what they do right now.But Shimkus does not appear to understand that prenatal care is important to keep fetuses and expecting mothers healthy throughout a pregnancy.
Seriously, he must have a sister or mother or wife.
Would he expected them to pay for their own prenatal care or would he have manned up and paid the extra few dollars every month to make sure they deliver a healthy child safely?If Republicans are serious about women carrying pregnancies to term than he should have absolutely no problem with having to pay a little extra for a vital healthcare service that pregnant women need.But this is the hypocrisy of Republicans.
They want to force women to give birth but they don t want to do anything to help pregnant women take care of the fetus.
They certainly don t give a damn about the child after it is born.Of course, Chelsea Clinton had an excellent point on Twitter in response to Shimkus.With all due respect, where do these men (all men?)
think they came from?
https://t.co/JG1IaMUEi0 Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) March 10, 2017Indeed.
The way Republicans like Shimkus are acting it makes one wonder if their mothers had sufficient prenatal care.Featured image via Wikimedia