With Devin Nunes recusal from the House Intelligence Committee s Russia investigation, the committee needs a new leader, and that new leader is Rep. Mike Conaway of Texas.
If that name sounds familiar, it s likely because Conaway made some waves earlier this year by saying something so stupid it should have automatically disqualified him from running this investigation.Conaway is the man who made the ridiculous comparison between Russia s meddling in our election, and Mexican celebrities performing for Hillary Clinton.
Oh yes, to Conaway, they are one and the same: Harry Reid and the Democrats brought in Mexican soap opera stars, singers and entertainers who had immense influence in those communities into Las Vegas, to entertain, get out the vote and so forth.
Those are foreign actors, foreign people, influencing the vote in Nevada.
You don t hear the Democrats screaming and saying one word about that.
When he was pressed on whether Mexican performers are really on par with Russian hackers, he said: Sure it is, it s foreign influence.
If we re worried about foreign influence, let s have the whole story.
Two things, idiot: First, foreign performers aren t working in secret.
Second, foreign performers aren t working to obtain and release thousands of internal party documents specifically damaging to one campaign.Foreign performers are more like surrogates belonging to a certain demographic.
Foreign hackers are more like spies working to sabotage something.And the man now leading the Russia probe tried to downplay it into nothing by claiming they re the same thing.
It was the dumbest thing he could ever have said as next in line for the chairmanship because it proves he s both too partisan to run an investigation that should be as non-partisan as possible, and also that he s just plain too stupid to know what he s doing.Things just got very interesting here, and not in a good way.
Can House Republicans offer up anybody capable of running this investigation the way it needs to be run?
It s just gotten ridiculous now.Featured image by Lance Cheung, CC BY 2.0 via Flickr