Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colorado) is one of the Republicans who is dead set on repealing the Affordable Care Act.
Before Saturday, he thought his constituents were with him, that is, until he held a town hall meeting.
It went so badly for him that he snuck out before the end.About 150 people showed up at the Aurora Public Library on Saturday.
Less than half of those, though, got to speak with the Congressman, and then each of them only got five minutes.Despite booking a large room with ample space, Coffman allowed in only four constituents at once for five minutes at a time.
When the crowd grew restless, police put up crime scene tape and Coffman snuck out the back door six minutes before the event was scheduled to end.Source: SlateColorado was one of the states to embrace the Affordable Care Act.
Under the law, the state s number of uninsured was cut by more than half.Despite that, Coffman has been on the front line of the repeal movement.
The day before the town hall, Coffman wrote an op-ed in the Denver Post advocating its repeal.Yet Coffman has not proposed a clear replacement for the law, an issue constituents hoped to ask him about on Saturday.
I am potentially going to lose my health insurance, Berthie Ruoff told NBC 9 while she waited to meet with her representative.
I ve had a preexisting condition.
I ve had breast cancer.
What s going to happen to me?
My spouse who had health insurance passed away.
What do I do?
You know, what am I supposed to do?
The crowd at the town hall wasn t sympathetic.
Coffman didn t talk to anyone who was at risk for losing their insurance.
The crowd reacted by singing, yes singing, and then Coffman snuck out.A few people noticed Coffman sneaking out and attempted to address him.
Next time, one woman pleaded, please be sure you hear all your constituents!
Coffman ignored them, hopped into a waiting car, and drove away.
Have a good afternoon!
yelled another exasperated woman.Coffman blamed the time.
He said they only had 90 minutes and that the event was only supposed to be one on one.Here s the video of the crowd singing:Crowd starts singing while trying to get in to see Congressman Mike Coffman in Aurora.
He only agreed with people a couple at a time.
#9News pic.twitter.com/bqZgj4FF6f Nelson Garcia (@9NewsEducation) January 14, 2017Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images