There is only ONE WAY to STOP this mosque from being built against the wishes of citizens in this RESIDENTIAL area, whose citizens are comprised of mostly Christian refugees that fled from Iraq to escape persecution at the hands of Muslims in their homeland: Call the US DOJ and ask our new Attorney General Jeff Sessions to review this case TODAY and ask the DOJ to STOP the mega-mosque from being built: 202-514-2000 A city of 130,000 people in southeastern Michigan is under the gun of Islamic pressure following its denial of a mega-mosque in a residential neighborhood populated largely by Christian refugees who fled Islamic persecution in Iraq.Sterling Heights already has two mosques, but a third, the American Islamic Community Center, applied for a permit and was rejected after it was determined its proposed use was incompatible with the residential area.
Too much traffic, too little parking, the city planning commission decided by a 9-0 vote against the mosque in September 2015.But in December, the mosque sued the city and the Obama Justice Department joined in, claiming the real reason the mosque was denied was because the city was caving to anti-Muslim bigotry in the community.
Now, a settlement deal is headed to the Sterling Heights City Council on Tuesday evening.
If the council votes to sign the deal, it could be very costly for the city.Watch the attorney for the mosque developers call the reasons these mostly Christian refugees from Iraq are in opposition to a mosque being built its their residential neighborhood fake :Local residents fear it s a bad deal, something similar to the Obama DOJ-orchestrated deal forced upon nearby Pittsfield Township, Michigan, last year.
That town had to pay out $1.7 million to local Muslims to whom it had denied a permit for an Islamic school, and township employees were ordered to undergo sensitivity training to assure they never again discriminate against Muslims.Attorney General Jeff Sessions could cancel any similar deal from taking effect in Sterling Heights, but only if he is aware of it and acts quickly.
If the city council is found to be cooperating with the Obama DOJ staff who are expediting this consent order to stick it to the Sessions/Trump team, then this city will go nuts, said Dick Manaserri, spokesman for Secure Michigan, a group formed to educate the public on Shariah law and how it differs from American law.In last November s presidential election, Donald Trump carried Sterling Heights, normally a Democratic Party stronghold, by 56 to 44 percent over Hillary Clinton.
He also carried Macomb County, home to Sterling Heights and also a Democratic-oriented county.But Trump s new AG, Sessions, is apparently not yet fully in control of the Justice Department, which includes many holdovers from the Obama administration.
Why else would Jeff Sessions not dismiss the Obama DOJ lawsuit against Sterling Heights?
Manaserri asks.
We have been told by legal experts that he has the power to simply dismiss the lawsuit.
A consent order typically implies wrongdoing with the application of penalties.
When the planning commission denied the mosque permit in September 2015, hundreds of Sterling Heights residents gathered outside City Hall to celebrate.
That celebration was caught on video, and critics cited it as evidence the city was somehow biased against Muslims.
Tom Mitchell is a resident of Sterling Heights whose family has been there since 1965.
He s seen the city s transformation over the past couple of decades under the control of what he calls progressives.
He avoids the world Democrat because the city s elections are technically nonpartisan.
I feel that with the left taking over, they are destroying this community.
I don t want to become another Dearborn or a Hamtramck.
And our elected officials are enabling this takeover, he said.Hamtramck, just a few miles south of Sterling Heights, became the nation s first city with a Muslim-majority city council in 2016, and a large portion of Dearborn resembles a Middle Eastern country with signs in Arabic and women walking the streets with their faces veiled.He said it s not a matter of discrimination.
Churches have been denied building projects in the past because their sites were too close to residential housing.
They didn t get the federal government to sue the city; they simply picked another site.
I truly believe this one man, Mr.
Sessions, has the power to throw out any consent decree that was engineered by Obama s Department of Justice.
That is our hope, Mitchell said.
In fact, I know of hundreds of us who are praying for that opportunity to get it in Jeff Sessions hands, before Tuesday night, because once it s signed, how do you overturn that?
Signing it is tantamount to a consent that we re a bunch of bigots here in Sterling Heights.
Calls to Sessions press office went unanswered Monday as all federal offices were closed for President s Day.
A stinger in the eye of Iraqi Christians in Sterling HeightsMitchell said he and others are trying to get the word out in the community that the Tuesday council meeting will include an agenda item on a proposed settlement to the lawsuit.But the city council did not publish its Tuesday-night agenda in the local legal newspaper, the weekly Sterling Heights Sentry, and it didn t put a notice on its official website until late Friday.
We just found out about this, so we ve been rushing to try to put together an opposition to stop the city from signing this document, which is an admission of guilt to something we don t think we committed, Mitchell said.
As a local resident, I m gonna say we don t discriminate in Sterling Heights.
We ve already got two mosques, a Sikh temple, a Buddhist temple and many other diverse houses of worship, so for this city to be called discriminatory is unbelievable.
The unfortunate thing is, they want to plop it right in the middle of a Chaldean Christian neighborhood, Mitchell added.
Somebody planned that.
Somebody is seeking to put a stinger in someone s eye.
Dr. Ramsay Dass, M.D., president of the American Middle East Christian Congress, said he is not so concerned about another mosque being built in Sterling Heights.
He s more concerned about the big picture of political pressure being placed on small cities by an out-of-control federal bureaucracy using coercive tactics.
As an American citizen, they are entitled to build a mosque, but I do not believe in making laws that small cities and towns cannot fight politically or financially, Dass told WND.The federal law being used to coerce cities into approving mosques, even when the mosque is in a residential neighborhood, is the Religion Land Use and Institutional Persons Act, or RELUIPA, which was passed by Congress in 2000.As WND has reported, the Obama administration used this law increasingly against communities denying mosques and less against those denying the construction of churches.Nahren Anweya is a spokesperson for the persecuted Middle Eastern Christians living in Michigan.
She has appeared on Fox News and spoken at congressional hearings on Christian persecution in the Middle East.
Her family has been living in Michigan since they escaped Iraq in 1989.
She said Sterling Heights is home to the nation s second largest Chaldean Catholic community of Iraqi Christians.
They thought they found a safe haven, only to find out their ancient nemesis, the Middle Eastern Sunni Muslims, were being resettled in the same county and wanted to build a mosque right in the middle of their neighborhood.Most Iraqi Christians are either Chaldean Catholic or members of an even more ancient Christian sect, the Assyrian Church of the East.
The Assyrians speak Aramaic, the language of Jesus.
My family they re pretty patriotic American Assyrian Christians.
Both of my great-grandfathers were crucified by Muslims literally on a cross, Anweya told WND.
And that was because they were proud Christians, my great-grandfather used to walk around with a large gold cross around his neck, we never tried to hide it.
So to see those ancient persecutors not only showing up in Macomb County en masse, but building a mosque on top of the Chaldean neighborhood, is traumatizing, Anweya said.
While we are living in our safe haven, to allow a mosque to be built where we are is like putting us back to Iraq.
We left everything behind to start from scratch, and then watching it follow us, this is traumatizing, she said.
There are so many Muslim countries who could take these Muslim refugees, but they send them here.
If we were treated fairly in their countries, then I would say let them build as many mosques as they want, but that day is far from reality.
She said Muslim leaders don t believe in equality, and anything they say on that level is mere pandering to gullible local Christians.
They don t believe in equality, even if they say they do, she said.
Show me a Muslim country where Christians are treated 100 percent equal.
Why is Christianity being degraded in every Muslim country?
In 2003, we were 1.3 million Christians in Iraq, and that is where Christianity began and thrived, and now these are people who would be beheaded for their Christian faith.
So, she said, the Assyrian and Chaldean communities have news for the Islamic centers that wish to build in their midst: These people are not going to give up their Christian faith, Anweya said.
Where a nation is most vulnerable, is when they are not even calling themselves Christian anymore, that s the most dangerous I believe.
When the sword is placed to your neck it s too late, she added.
The Christians from Iraq, we are not building churches in Dearborn, so why are they building mosques in Sterling Heights?
If we started building churches in Dearborn, I think you would see a few protests coming from them.
Read more at:WND