The Buffalo School Board refuses to tolerate racism from one of their own members, and decisively voted to oust a racist Trump supporter from their ranks on Thursday.Earlier this month, Carl Paladino wrote a wish list hoping for President Obama s death from mad cow disease and called for First Lady Michelle Obama to be sent to live with gorillas in Africa.
I d like her to return to being a male and let loose in the outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with Maxie, the gorilla, Paladino wrote.Predictably, national outrage ensued as Paladino s own son condemned him.
We value and respect our employees, friends, partners and all of our commercial and residential tenancies and we do not condone the statements made about the President of the United States and his wife, William Paladino wrote.
They were disrespectful and absolutely unnecessary.
And just this week, Paladino issued a pathetic non-apology apology while calling President Obama lazy and blaming the media for the outrage over his racist remarks before declaring, No, I m not leaving the school board.
Oh, yes he is, if the school board has anything to say about it.On Thursday, the board voted 6-2 on a resolution condemning Paladino s remarks and demanding his resignation.School Board President Barbara Seals Nevergold had strong words for Paladino, who didn t bother attending the meeting because he s a coward.
Words matter, Mr. Paladino, Nevergold said.
The impact on children of color, especially African-American children is incalculable They would like me to tell you, You re fired.
The resolution blasted Paladino for his unambiguously racist, morally repugnant, flagrantly disrespectful, inflammatory and inexcusable comments, and explained that his remarks garnered both local, national, and international attention that reflects negatively on the Buffalo Board of Education, the City of Buffalo and its leadership and its citizens.
In addition, if Paladino refuses to resign the Buffalo School Board is going to get an attorney to file an application of removal to the State Education Department to force him out.In short, Paladino can resist but the school board has spoken and so did the many people in attendance who cheered when the resolution passed.Here s video of the meeting via Twitter.#BREAKING resolution calling for @CarlPaladino to resign from the @Buffalo_Schools BOE in 24 hours passes 6-2 @WGRZ pic.twitter.com/8T6an1ukCG Jeff Preval (@PrevalWGRZ) December 29, 2016And Carl Paladino has only himself to blame.Featured image via screenshot