One of Donald Trump s top advisers repeatedly tried to change the subject during an interview on MSNBC on Monday but Tamron Hall was having none of it.From the Republican nominee s refusal to release his taxes to his illegal donation to Pam Bondi to his immigration policy, Hall grilled A.J.
Delgado until she was burned to a crisp.Delgado bragged about 88 retired military veterans endorsing her boss and claimed that it s because Trump is constantly fundraising and donating money to veteran s organizations.
Delgado also claimed that Hillary Clinton doesn t have a record of helping veterans.As usual, Trump is slandering Hillary Clinton by lying about what she has done.According to Correct The Record, Hillary Clinton worked tirelessly in the Senate to pass legislation aimed at helping veterans.She introduced the Heroes At Home Act of 2006 and 2007 to help families care for veterans with traumatic brain injuries or post-traumatic stress disorder.
She fought to increase the survivor benefits for military families from $12,000 to $100,000.
In addition, she helped author a new G.I.
Bill of Rights and fought to expand retirement and disability as well as family medical leave for veterans as well.Hall pointed out that Trump, on the other hand, hasn t really proved that he donates a lot to veteran s groups because he refuses to release his tax returns.Delgado once again dragged out the tired old excuse that Trump can t release his taxes because he is being audited, but Hall immediately called bullshit.
Yes, you can, Hall said.
There s nothing that prevents you.
Delgado, who is supposed a lawyer, argued with Hall by repeatedly saying that he can t until she finally conceded that legally he can release his taxes.
But then she tried to make the discussion about Hillary Clinton s health.
Why is it you want them released?
Delgado asked.
I think the bigger issue is Hillary Clinton s medical records.
Unperturbed, Hall made it clear why American voters have the right to see his taxes.
We don t know where he s invested his money.
There was a New York Times report about ties to Chinese banks, potential investments in Russia.
We need to know more about this presidential candidate.
Why not release that information?
Frankly, it s time for the IRS to speed up and finish their damn audit so that Trump can no longer use it as an excuse.Hall moved on to slamming Trump for whining about Hillary s ties to foreign leaders and claiming that she ran a pay-to-play as Secretary of State.
But Hall pointed out that Trump is involved in a real pay-to-play scandal right now because Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi dropped an investigation into Trump University shortly before Trump donated to her campaign.
It sounds like a situation of pay-for-play, Hall said, prompting yet more whining from Delgado and yet another attempt to pivot to Hillary Clinton.
Pam Bondi asked for that donation before she even knew that some complaints had come into her office, hundreds of complaints, Delgado said, which brings up another question.
Why would Bondi kill an investigation even though there were complaints flowing into her office against Trump University?
It definitely sounds like Bondi was paid off to drop it.Hall pointed out that if Hillary had donated to Bondi and had a case against her magically dropped that Trump would lose his shit over it.
He would say that there s no way Hillary Clinton had this conversation and that this lawsuit did not come up, Hall said.
Remember all the suspicions regarding [Attorney General Loretta Lynch] and Bill Clinton on the plane?
Donald Trump would not accept that as answer.
Delgado then tried to portray the IRS fine against Trump for his $25,000 donation as resulting from a clerical error.
Hall knew that Delgado would keep trying to pivot back to attacking Hillary Clinton and she quickly shut her down.
I fully realize that you ve come locked and loaded but what we re going to do is we re going to talk about what your candidate is now saying on the campaign trail 62 days out, Hall said before playing a clip of Trump flip-flopping on his immigration message.Once again, Delgado was reduced to desperately trying to pivot to Hillary Clinton instead of answering for her boss clear flip-flop.Here s the video via YouTube.And once again, Tamron Hall proves that she will not take any bullshit from Trump s campaign.Featured image via screenshot