But what about Hillary being a formidable opponent when it comes to women voters?
Hillary Clinton had trouble attracting high-powered women to a New York talk hosted by Silda Wall Spitzer two weeks before her campaign officially kicks off.
Sources said that after ticket sales fizzled for an intimate, $2,700-per-person, just for women meeting on Monday, the event was thrown open to men at the 11th hour, and the deadline extended to buy tickets.The Conversation With Hillary Clinton event at Midtown law firm Akin Gump was originally aiming to attract 125 women.
An email invitation seen by Page Six said the event is just for women.
But by Friday, They d only sold 50 tickets, so they threw it open to men, a source said.
Ticket sales were supposed to close at 10 a.m. Sunday, but the hostesses were working the phones and pushed the deadline till Monday.
We hear about 90 attendees included former Bill Clinton aide Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney and his husband, Randy Florke, Maurice Tempelsman, Jill Braufman (wife of hedge funder Daniel Nir), Jean Shafiroff and Susan Cole.
The event began at noon, but Clinton arrived at 1 p.m. in a royal blue jacket and black pants.
She then took pictures with donors and delivered a half-hour speech before leaving at about 2 p.m.Silda introduced Clinton as a tough, authentic leader, which is probably more than she can say about her hard-charging ex Eliot.
In a possible nod to her host, Clinton quoted Eleanor Roosevelt, quipping, Every woman in public life needs to develop skin as tough as rhinoceros hide.
Topics included clean energy, mental health care for college kids, keeping but revising ObamaCare, Vladimir Putin, and America s heroin and meth epidemic.
Meanwhile, on Monday, journalists covering Clinton met in Washington, DC, to grouse about inadequate access to the candidate.
When we reached out to a local Clinton campaign rep who helped organize the event, she referred us to Clinton s deputy national press secretary, who referred us to her rapid response spokesperson, who, not surprisingly, had no comment.Via: NY Post