Trump supporter and Fox host Stuart Varney has finally had enough if Trump s petty Twitter insults.Donald Trump s attack on Meryl Streep was a step too far for Fox Business host Stuart Varney and his guests on Monday.During the Golden Globe Awards on Sunday night, Streep delivered an amazing defense of Hollywood, the press, disabled people, and foreigners without mentioning Trump by name.
There was nothing good about it, Streep said of Trump s campaign.
But it was effective, and it did its job.
It made its intended audience laugh and show their teeth.
It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter- someone he outranked in privilege, power, and the capacity to fight back.
It kind of broke my heart.
When the powerful use their position to bully others, we all lose.
Predictably, instead of letting it go, Trump lashed out at Streep on Twitter.Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn t know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never mocked a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017 groveling when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Now, Trump has been throwing these little hissy fits for quite some time now, especially after becoming president-elect, which is really embarrassing because presidents usually do not hurl insults like a petulant child at people who disagree with them.And Fox Business host Stuart Varney, who is a big supporter of Trump, agrees that he crossed the line and only hurt himself and the office he will hold on January 20th.During his show, journalist Elizabeth MacDonald expressed her thoughts about Trump s tirade.
How does name calling make American great again?
she asked.
Doesn t that undercut Mr. Trump s agenda by responding in ways like this?
I mean, he demeans himself.
You cannot expect people to climb on board with your agenda when your judgement is so poor in making attacks like that.
Indeed, such attacks only divide our country and reflect poorly on Trump as he continued to destroy the dignity of the presidency even though he s not even the president yet.
I got it and I think you re right, Varney replied simply before moving on to a new story.Here s the video via YouTube:Every time Donald Trump lashes out at someone on Twitter he embarrasses himself, the office of the presidency, and this nation.
He needs to learn to ignore criticism, or better yet, listen to it and learn from it instead of throwing a temper tantrum.Featured image via screenshot