The media has been telling us for months now that the Republican party is in a civil war.
It is.
The war, though, is not between those who care and those who want to take food from the mouths of babies.
No, they all want to take food from the mouths of babies.
It s not a war between those who want the world to treat those who aren t white, male, Christian and cis equally.
None of them want that.
The war is between those who pretend to be good people and those who let their anti-intellectual a**hole flag fly.Sarah Palin is the queen of the a**hole flag branch of the GOP.
She wears that flag proudly and with all the maturity of a bully who s flunking out of fifth grade.
Before Palin hit the stage, we suspected, but we never knew for sure, that the base of the Republican party was bigoted macho mouth breathers.
Imagine our feigned surprise when Palin came out in support of this macho mouth breather in Wisconsin, who is hoping to replace Paul Ryan in the House.
Watch to the end of the video, when he challenges Ryan to a debate, but if Ryan refuses to debate, he d be happy to arm wrestle the Congressman.Here s the video:Well, Paul Ryan does do P90X, so it could be an interesting match.The man who wants to arm wrestle Ryan, presumably from the backs of Harleys, is Wisconsin businessman Paul Nehlen, whose main issue is the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement.
There s just one problem with his entire beef with Ryan.
Ryan didn t endorse the agreement.The video is titled Truth Resurrection, but its portrayal of Ryan as a supporter of the trade deal is false.
Ryan s been critical of the actual deal, but helped pass a separate measure called Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), a pro-forma congressional action that makes it easier for the executive branch to negotiate a proposed treaty that must still be ratified by Congress.
Lawmakers have granted presidents that authority as a routine matter of course going back decades and across party lines.
Ryan even hammered some unusual concessions to GOP ideology into this edition of TPA.Source: Think ProgressThe real issue, though, at least for Palin, is that Ryan, at least so far, has refused to endorse her candidate, Donald Trump.
Now, she has set her sights on replacing the Speaker.
I think Paul Ryan is soon to be Cantored, as in Eric Cantor, Palin said, referring to the former Republican House majority leader who was ousted in a shocking upset in 2014 when challenger Dave Brat ran to his right in a Virginia primary.
His political career is over but for a miracle because he has so disrespected the will of the people, and as the leader of the GOP, the convention, certainly he is to remain neutral, and for him to already come out and say who he will not support is not a wise decision of his, Palin continued.Source: CNNNaturally, Palin didn t consult policy experts before landing on a candidate.
She saw a tattooed, muscled man s man on a Harley and her little squirrel brain said, that s the man!
That, and Nehlen endorsed Trump.Palin told Tapper that although she hasn t yet informed Nehlen that she s endorsing him, I will do whatever I can for Paul Nehlen.
This man is a hard-working guy, so in touch with the people, Palin said.
Paul Ryan and his ilk, their problem is they have become so disconnected by the people whom they are elected to represent.
She added: They feel so threatened at this point that their power, their prestige, their purse will be adversely affected by the change that is coming with Trump and with someone like Paul Nehlen, that they re not thinking straight right now.
It appears that this is a year in which Palin is ready to let her social conservatism take a backseat to her xenophobia.
Both Nehlen and Trump are anti-immigration, but their stances on reproductive rights and LGBT rights are tough to pin down.
Of course, you could also say that this proves that Palin has no principles, other than somehow staying relevant with the ignorant masses.
Or, maybe she likes the Harley and the tats.Featured image via YouTube video screen capture.