A Congressman decided to come clean about what really goes on in DC and it s not pretty.
For one thing, he never read anything he voted on A new book threatens to blow the lid off of Congress as a federal legislator s tell-all book lays out the worst parts of serving in the House of Representatives saying that his main job is to raise money for re-election and that leaves little time for reading the bills he votes on.Mill City Press, a small Minnesota-based vanity press publisher describes The Confessions of Congressman X as a devastating inside look at the dark side of Congress as revealed by one of its own.
No wonder Congressman X wants to remain anonymous for fear of retribution.
His admissions are deeply disturbing.
The 84-page expos is due in bookstores in two weeks, and Washington is abuzz with speculation about who may be behind it.
The book, a copy of which DailyMail.com has seen, discloses that the congressman is a Democrat but not much else.
The anonymous spleen-venter has had a lot to say about his constituents, however.
Robert Atkinson, a former chief of staff and press secretary for two congressional Democrats, took notes on a series of informal talks with him whoever he is and is now publishing them with his permission.
Voters claim they want substance and detailed position papers, but what they really crave are cutesy cat videos, celebrity gossip, top 10 lists, reality TV shows, tabloid tripe, and the next f***ing Twitter message, the congressman gripes in the book.
I worry about our country s future when critical issues take a backseat to the inane utterings of illiterate athletes and celebrity twits.
Much of what s in the book will come as little surprise to Americans who are cynical about the political process.
Fundraising is so time-consuming I seldom read any bills I vote on, the anonymous legislator admits.
I don t even know how they ll be implemented or what they ll cost.
My staff gives me a last-minute briefing before I go to the floor and tells me whether to vote yea or nay.
How bad is that?
And on controversial bills, he says, I sometimes vote yes on a motion and no on an amendment so I can claim I m on either side of an issue.
It s the old shell game: if you can t convince em, confuse em.
Read more: Daily Mail