When Ella Dawson started a blog discussing her trials with genital herpes, along with STI stigma, she expected prudes to come out of the woodwork and snipe at her for putting such a personal topic out for all to see.
What she didn t expect was for the dangerous alt-right to find her and make her a target for their sick form of entertainment.When she decided to write about that, she likely also didn t expect to catch the attention of Hillary Clinton, let alone grab it enough to receive a personal letter back.The letter starts with: Thank you for the brave and insightful piece on Medium this week.
I am so grateful for you for not only speaking out against the stigma surrounding sexually transmitted infections, but for also taking a courageous stand against the ridiculous, but very real, barrage of hate you have received online.
She reiterated that love and kindness are among the central components of her campaign, and that the decline of civil public discourse is one of the more alarming problems in the digital age.
Then she dropped this truth bomb: It s going to take all of us, working together, to restore our discourse and that work starts by calling out the bullies, chief among them Donald Trump and the alt-right.
Read the whole letter below:Thank you, @HillaryClinton, for reading.
I m incredibly moved.
To be accurate, I m ugly crying.
#ImWithHer pic.twitter.com/kt5tAVWrFX Ella Dawson (@brosandprose) September 6, 2016The blog post that caught Hillary s attention discusses Dawson s very real and terrible problems with the alt-right.
Her broader discussion, though, is about how rape threats, death threats, doxxing, shaming, and more, happen to women all over the Internet because we dare to Internet while female.
The sheer gall of us to have an opinion and put it out there we should, in the eyes of the misogynistic alt-right, stay silent.
We bring the harassment on ourselves in their view.What s worse is that some of the people harassing Dawson aren t the typical cretins that inhabit the alt-right.
Mike Cernovich, who s a lawyer, but more well-known for his sexist Internet presence, tweeted: Ugly and has herpes.
Maybe an SJW male might actually be able to get at these table scraps.
(Doubtful).
Paul Joseph Watson, an editor-at-large at Alex Jones InfoWars, recorded a five-minute YouTube video talking about how vile were the women who were tweeting under the hashtag #ShoutYourStatus for STD Awareness Month.
He ended it with the typical sexist attack of: I don t think we should be that surprised that feminists are bragging about their STDs.
After all, they re so fat and ugly, the mere fact that they re having any kind of sex at all is a massive achievement.
Because the women the alt-right considers to be their eye candy all know their places and would never be so hateful towards men as to become a feminist.
Sure.The response to that video caused Dawson to lock her Twitter account, lest Breitbart writers, and other misogynistic writers, embed her tweets in their stories, causing an ever-growing cycle of harassment.
A man writing about this stuff would never receive this treatment.
Ever.That s what Hillary knows, and has dealt with as a strong woman in a position of power for most of her life.
Hillary stood up in Reno and read off Breitbart headlines while many other women are afraid to even mention that cesspool of a news site.
Dawson has been a Hillary supporter for years, but her admiration for Hillary went through the roof when she witnessed this speech.Dawson ended her post with a thank-you to Hillary for having the guts (yes, it takes guts to stand up to the hate of the alt-right) to call the alt-right out for what it is.
Misogyny, racism, white nationalism, white supremacy, anti-Semitism, and all-around hate are what the alt-right is about.
That s despite the fact that, according to Dawson, they delusionally bill themselves as: [A] trendy new generation of conservatism, pushing boundaries and buttons in response to political correctness and liberal oversensitivity.
Please.
That is vile on its face.Bravo to Dawson for continuing to Internet while female, and bravo to Hillary for standing with her.
That is what makes a president.Featured image by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images