Donald Trump retweeted fake news videos in the early hours of the morning and for that, he was widely condemned.
The White House responded to say that it doesn t matter if the former reality show star posted fake videos about Muslims because the threat is real!
Scary, huh?
A backlash ensued after Trump retweeted three times from a woman who was convicted of a hate crime in the U.K.The current occupant of the White House is upset because British Prime Minister Theresa May responded to Trump s widely condemned retweets this morning, saying, It is wrong for the president to have done this.
In a statement, Downing street further said, Britain First seeks to divide communities by their use of hateful narratives that peddle lies and stoke tensions.
They cause anxiety to law-abiding people.
Members of British Parliament also condemned Trump s retweets.So naturally, Trump lashed out on Twitter at our ally s leader.
The problem is that he tweeted to the wrong Theresa May, a person who only has 6 followers, causing that Twitter user to receive nearly 9,000 notifications.We took a screen capture because we knew (and he did) the Dotard would delete it.
Here s Trump s full tweet to the totally wrong person.
Finally, Trump tweeted the correct Theresa May, writing the same message: Don t focus on me, focus on the destructive Radical Islamic Terrorism that is taking place within the United Kingdom.
We are doing just fine!
.
@Theresa_May, don t focus on me, focus on the destructive Radical Islamic Terrorism that is taking place within the United Kingdom.
We are doing just fine!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2017Wrong!
We are not doing fine when the so-called leader of the free world tweets to the wrong world leader, even though he is addicted to Twitter and still cannot tweet correctly.
And now that he has corrected his tweet, he sounds just as idiotic as he did this morning when he started tweeting out fake videos in order to promote his ban on Muslim countries.What a fuckin moron.Photo by David Becker/Getty Images