It appears that Republicans aren t quite sure if they are on board with Donald Trump s plan to ban all Muslims from entering the United States.
During an interview with Jonathan Karl on ABC s This Week, Karl questioedn Republican Senator John Barrasso about Trump s proposed Muslim ban.Barasso, who is going to serve as the chair of Republican national convention s platform committee dodged the answer multiple times during the interview.Here s a transcript of the exchange:JONATHAN KARL: Well, Trump has won.
What where does the party now stand on that Muslim ban?JOHN BARRASSO: You know, the platform is about the core values of our party.
It s who we are, it s what we stand for, and I met with Donald Trump about it and he understands that the platform is very important to the Republican Party.
It s going to be a conservative platform that s going to be positive, optimistic, looking to the future, focused on things like jobs, the economy, and national security.
And what he was focused on with that ban is national security.The platform is going to be focusing on growing the economy.
We have too many Americans who are suffering the stagnant wages KARL: But BARRASSO: This 1 to 2 percent economic growth that we have here is cannot be the new normal for America.
So the platform is going to be something that all Republicans can be proud of and national security is going to be a big part of it.KARL: But I asked you very directly where does the Republican Party now stand on the idea of imposing a temporary ban on Muslims coming into this country?
Donald Trump won; sixty percent of Republican voters in exit polls agreed with him on that proposal.
You called it un-American.
Where does it stand now?BARRASSO: Well, the platform committee will meet in Cleveland in July for a full week before the convention.
It s 112 members of the platform committee.
And we ve asked Donald Trump to allow the process to play out.
He has agreed to do that.
And I ve asked him personally to embrace the platform and I believe he will.
National security will be a big part of it.The fact that Barasso can t even address one of the biggest proposals the GOP s new figurehead has called for reveals exactly how dysfunctional the party is at this time.A house or party in this case is a one that destined to fall.
Trump has pushed the GOP to take new extremes on just about every issue.
Now the left gets to sit back and watch as the party divides itself between lite-fascists and moderate conservatives.You can watch the interview in full, below.Featured image from video screenshot