Ted Cruz has been on the warpath recently after Republican front-runner Donald Trump made several sexist comments about this wife.
However, his tough guy act was tempered by the fact that his loyalty to the Republican Party meant that he would not refuse to vote for Trump if it came down to it.
Instead, when asked point blank by a reporter whether he would support Trump as nominee, Cruz fumbled for an answer and quickly became a laughingstock.In the days since, Cruz seems to have found a spine, and signaled that he would finally be ready to never vote for Trump, even if he wins the nomination.
I don t make a habit out of supporting people who attack my wife and attack my family, Cruz told reporters at a news conference.At the event, Cruz also addressed rumors that he had had affairs with as many as five women by pinning the attacks on Trump.
We have done nothing to his family, and we will not.
But Donald was unhappy with the news of the day, unhappy with losing elections, was unhappy with his dangerous ignorance of foreign policy being revealed on the world stage, so he decided to engage in a personal attack directed at my wife, Cruz saidBut Cruz had to ruin what could have been a moment that showed he had a bit of integrity by immediately making a bizarre bestiality joke directed at Trump that was just plain creepy.
Another in a long line of examples of how something just seems off with Cruz.
Trump may be a rat, but I have no desire to copulate with him.
And this garbage does not belong in politics.
Uh, what?Cruz had perhaps wanted to politely suggest that Trump was a ratf*cker (classy), but instead wound up seeming to suggest that he himself likes having sex with rats, just not rats named Trump.It was decidedly one of the lowest points in a presidential race that has featured more than its fair share of rock bottoms.
Neither Trump nor Cruz seem to have any problem lying, cheating, or stealing their way to victory.
As the two grow closer in the polls, the vicious attacks have become more personal and more ugly.
It seems impossible to imagine a scenario where Republicans find a way to come together after this.
Their two top prospects have run scorched earth campaigns against each others families and friends.
The resentment will likely glow red hot for years.Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images