Giddy with the news that an Egyptian commercial airplane had disappeared on route from France to Cairo, Donald Trump wasted no time in taking an undeserved victory lap for his proposal to ban Muslims from the United States.
Unable to contain himself, he also went a step further and blamed Hillary Clinton for the plane s disappearance because why not?Immediately after announcing that he was positive the plane went down due to Islamic terrorism (a conclusion he came to before even a single fact had emerged), Trump released a breathless statement to the effect that Clinton s lack of support for a Muslim ban was the root of all international terrorism.
His evidence: a list of acts of terror that had occurred both before she became Secretary of State and after she left.Look at the carnage all over the world including the World Trade Center, San Bernardino, Paris, the USS Cole, Brussels and an unlimited number of other places.
She and our totally ignorant President won t even use the term Radical Islamic Terrorism.
And by the way, ask Hillary who blew up the plane last night another terrible, but preventable tragedy.
She has bad judgement and is unfit to serve as President at this delicate and difficult time in our country s history.If one were to take Trump s advice and ask Hillary who blew up the plane last night?
She would probably defer to the experts, who would tell you: We don t know.
So far, the investigation has turned up few clues and has only just begun.Although suspicion pointed to Islamist militants who blew up another airliner over Egypt just seven months ago, no group had claimed responsibility more than 24 hours after the disappearance of flight MS804, an Airbus A320 flying from Paris to Cairo.Three French investigators and a technical expert from Airbus arrived in Cairo early on Friday to help investigate the fate of the missing plane, airport sources said.Egyptian Prime Minister Sherif Ismail said on Thursday that it was too early to rule out any explanation for the disaster.
The country s aviation minister said a terrorist attack was more likely than a technical failure.On Twitter the next day, Trump was again telling his supporters that he was the solution to terrorism.Look where the world is today, a total mess, and ISIS is still running around wild.
I can fix it fast, Hillary has no chance!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2016So far his plans to fix it fast include bringing back torture, banning Muslims from the United States, and killing the wives and children of suspected extremists in the Middle East.
Those vague policies have already made their way into terrorist propaganda videos and are being used as recruitment tools.On Fox News, which went from Trump skeptic to Trump cheerleader with breathtaking speed, the unanimous opinion seemed to be that acts of terror are great for Trump.
The bodies haven t even been recovered from the Mediterranean Sea, and Fox host Stuart Varney was bragging about what this could do for Trump s poll numbers.
I also think this may be good politically for Donald Trump.
He s already tweeted out, saying this is probably terrorism.He s the guy who is saying, hands off, keep Muslims out temporarily whist we figure out who comes in.
An incident of this type is surely a plus for Donald Trump.
There is, of course, absolutely zero evidence that banning Muslims from the United States would stop terrorists from hijacking an Egyptian airplane, but why should that stop Fox from running with the narrative?
If Trump tweets it, it must be true.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images