As if we didn t already have enough proof that Trump s administration is full of pathological, compulsive liars, along comes Sean Spicer with yet more.
It s not his defense of Kellyanne Conway s mysteriously non-existent terror attack at Bowling Green that lands him on the growing mountain of lies.
Rather, it s that he himself has referenced an imaginary terror attack multiple times.CNN put together a short list of Spicer s references to a terror attack in Atlanta that never happened:The first timeHere s what Spicer told ABC s This Week on January 29 while defending the President s travel ban: What do we say to the family who loses somebody over a terroristic (sic) to whether it s Atlanta or San Bernardino or the Boston bomber?
Those people, each of whom had gone out to a country and then come back, Spicer said.The second timeThe next day, Spicer appeared on MSNBC s Morning Joe and also mentioned Atlanta while defending the travel ban: There was a very short period of time in which we had something to execute that ensured that the people of the United States were safe.
Everybody s been protected, Spicer said.
What happened if we didn t act and somebody was killed?
Too many of these cases that have happened whether you re talking about San Bernardino, Atlanta Boston would you wait until you do?
The answer is we act now to protect the future.
The third timeAnd in his January 30 press briefing, Spicer once again alluded to an Atlanta terror attack.
When asked by a reporter why some countries linked to terrorism aren t on the travel ban list, Spicer responded: Right, and we re reviewing the entire process over this period of time to make sure that we do this right.
But I don t think you have to look any further than the families of the Boston Marathon, in Atlanta, in San Bernardino to ask if we can go further.
CNN has been unable to reach Spicer for comment, but some speculate that he might actually be referring to Orlando.
The only problem is, he keeps saying Atlanta and it s not like the Orlando massacre was a small, minor incident where such a misstep might be understandable.
The last known terror attacks in Atlanta were at the 1996 Olympics, and at a lesbian club in 1997.
Both happened at the hands of a right-wing American terrorist.In other words, they weren t attacks by radical Muslims.
And there have been no other acts of terrorism in Atlanta.
Yet here s Spicer, saying Atlanta over and over again to defend Trump s Muslim ban.The Orlando attack, by contrast, was a massacre, and it s not like nobody can remember it.
Odd mistake to make, if that s what s even happening.Maybe he s talking about tighter security in Atlanta following last year s terror attack in Brussels?
That s not especially likely, either.
When he finally gets a story together, he ll talk to the press.
Or he ll ignore anything that has to do with his references to Atlanta.
But, like Kellyanne Conway, he said it, and then repeated it.
It s hard to believe that s just a misspoken word.Read more:Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images