The 2017 Christmas decorations were unveiled in a stunning video montage showing the incredibly tasteful display complete with a nativity scene.
The White House has never looked more like Christmas.TWITTER was immediately abuzz over the White House decorations The overwhelming majority of negative comments refer to how the decorations are over the top or tacky .
The hate for all things Trump was visible in scorching comments from snowflakes:Yes, there were comments about the nativity scene too.
The Hill commented on the nativity scene being included in Trump s first White House Christmas.
Why wouldn t it be?Rumors swirled during Obama s presidency about whether the nativity scene would be displayed.
We found that the Obamas discussed a non-secular Christmas but didn t follow through with it Can you imagine?THE OBAMAS DISCUSSED A NON-SECULAR CHRISTMAS?The Obamas talked about have a non-secular Christmas without a nativity scene at Christmas to be more inclusive but they didn t follow through with it: The New York Times reported:President Obama didn t ban a nativity scene display at the White House.
A report that appeared in the New York Times fashion section that made reference to the Obamas planning a non-secular Christmas is behind those rumors.The original report was about Desir e Rogers, a glamorous corporate executive from Chicago, joining the Obama White House as social security.
In that role, Rogers would orchestrate White House special events and celebrations.
Rogers mentioned the Obamas were discussing a non-secular Christmas display at the White House during an introductory luncheon:The lunch conversation inevitably turned to whether the White House would display its cr che, customarily placed in a prominent spot in the East Room.
Ms. Rogers, this participant said, replied that the Obamas did not intend to put the manger scene on display a remark that drew an audible gasp from the tight-knit social secretary sisterhood.
(A White House official confirmed that there had been internal discussions about making Christmas more inclusive and whether to display the cr che.)