With President-elect Donald Trump s inauguration just days away, it seems like he s still trying to clean up his most recent messes and scandals.One of the most recent bombshells to shake up Trump s deeply flawed transition was the public release of an unverified report that Trump had paid prostitutes to urinate on a bed President Barack Obama had previously slept in while visiting a hotel in Russia.
In an interview with Fox News s Ainsley Earhardt, it seems like Trump is still trying to convince America that he didn t do it and his excuses continue to get more pathetic.
Trump said: It s fake news.
It s all fake news.
You know, I can say something about George Washington, I can say something about Abraham Lincoln, I can say something about you.
I can just fake news and [the CIA] shouldn t have been a part of it.
Clearly nervous about the fact that Penthousehas recently offered a $1 million prize to anyone who could produce the tapes of the scandal, Trump s insecurity and panic came right through as he went into a weird denial-infused rant.
Trump said: It s made up.
Never existed.
Never happened.
And the reason I say that so strongly because nothing is ever going to show up.
There s never going to be a tape that shows up.
There s never going to be anything that shows up.
Now, I would be very embarrassed if a tape actually showed up, saying something like that.
It would be double embarrassed because I m saying there is no tape.
There is no event.
I was never even in that room for that period of time.
Then, Trump ripped everyone from the GOP to the Democratic Party to the media: It started with the Republican Party when they tried to beat me in the nomination and it went on.
The Democrats took over the work, supposedly.
And by the intelligence giving it credence by just even talking about it it was very inappropriate.
So I don t know who the leaker was.
I have no idea, but it s fake news.
You can watch Trump miserably fail at doing damage control below:Featured image is a screenshot