Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach has reportedly been in the running for Secretary of Homeland Security, and as an early Trump supporter, he s got a pretty good chance of getting a position within the administration.On Sunday, he had a meeting with Trump that lends credence to that assumption.
Eager for any political opportunity, he appeared in a photograph with overlord Trump, and in that photograph, papers concerning his plans for our homeland security can be clearly seen.And read.Here s the picture in question, taken by the Associated Press:In his haste to be photographed with the president-elect, he left sensitive information facing directly toward the camera.
And as reported by the Topeka Capital-Journal, the paper is clearly legible in the original photograph.The document calls for updating and reintroducing the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System.
The program was implemented in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, but largely suspended in 2011.
All aliens from high-risk areas are tracked, the document reads.The document then calls for extreme vetting questions for high-risk aliens ; echoing Trump s campaign rhetoric.
High-risk aliens would be questioned about support for Sharia law (Islamic religious law), jihad, the equality of men and women and the U.S. Constitution.The document also asks for reducing the intake of Syrian refugees to zero.In other words, Trump s current top pick for Homeland Security wants a registry, wants to violate religious freedoms through extreme vetting, is completely against actually helping anyone, and is too stupid to put the damn papers in the binder before posing for a picture.Also included in the document, but hidden partially by his arm so that context is unavailable: the Patriot Act, voter rolls, and possible amendments to the Voting Rights Act.
Considering Trump s rhetoric and what the rest of the paper contains, that is terrifying.
It looks as though Republicans want to use the Department of Homeland Security to suppress the Democratic vote.Kobach was the one who designed the previous registry system for immigrants as well the one that was abandoned in 2011 because it was completely useless, and is also un-American in concept:Right off the bat, Kobach starts his list by detailing the way he will institute the Muslim registry.
First, he wants to restart the highly ineffective and civil rights-violating Bush screening and tracking policy known as NSEERS.
The program forced Muslim immigrants to register and then routinely check in with immigration officials while they were in the US or face jail or deportation.
It was also a disaster.
Obama scrapped the whole thing in his first term.
(Source)It didn t even result in a single terrorist being prosecuted.
In fact, none of these methods will work beyond appeasing the disgusting impulses of the xenophobic right wing now running our country.
Alienating communities and painting enemies where there are none does nothing but help the people you re trying to fight.
But in the case of fascists like Trump, creating an enemy is a good thing: It allows them to justify seizing greater power while they erode civil liberties.
Mark my words he will come for the press, for protesters, and even for voters.
He doesn t believe in the same basic rights you and I do he doesn t even understand them.In many ways, this incident is a fair representation of the Trump campaign (and pending administration) as a whole: Incompetent, inhuman, and deeply immoral.Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images