For the first time, in recent memory at least, the FBI has decided to put its thumb on the scale of the presidential election by releasing maybes, leaks and innuendo against Hillary Clinton.
While a parade of people both on the left and right have railed against the head of the FBI, James Comey, the most powerful voice has been from one of the key figures involved in the so-called investigation: Anthony Weiner s alleged teenage victim of sexting.According to Comey, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation.
Comey didn t say Clinton is being indicted.
He didn t say she was even involved.
He hasn t even seen the emails that may or may not implicate Clinton.
It s guilt by possible association with something that might exist, and all of this bunch of nothin came out just days before the election.The alleged victim of the sexting that is at the center of the controversy wrote an open letter (printed in Buzzfeed) that raked Comey over the coals.
She s upset that she s being re-victimized to become a political tool.
Here are some excerpts:In your letter, you chose to use a vague approach, meaning the media had to keep searching to try and find out what evidence you had uncovered and how.
Every media outlet from local to national has contacted me and my family to get my story.
Why couldn t your letter have waited until after the election, so I would not have to be the center of attention the last week of the election cycle?In his cooperation with you and with his love of the spotlight, Anthony Weiner has given information that led to the media finding me.
You have assisted him in further victimizing me on every news outlet.
I can only assume that you saw an opportunity for political propaganda.I thought your job as FBI Director was to protect me.
I thought if I cooperated with your investigation, my identity as a minor would be kept secret.
That is no longer the case.
My family and I are barraged by reporters phone calls and emails.
I have been even been blamed in a newspaper for causing Donald Trump to now be leading in some polls and costing Hillary the election.
..The election is important, yes, but what happened to me and how it makes me feel and how others see me, is much more important.
It s time that the FBI Director puts his victims rights above political views.The girl, who appears to be exceptionally articulate and more informed than the majority of voters on both sides of the aisle, signed the letter, Girl that lost her faith in America.
She s not alone.
This election has been one of the most bitter and contentious and fact free (on the Republican side) in our nation s history.
We hadn t yet hit rock bottom when Comey made his statement, but we re coming closer every single day.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images.