Former Mexican President Vicente Fox already cemented his disdain for Donald Trump when he jumped on the business mogul for his border wall idea, saying Mexico would not pay for that f*cking wall.
Now he s getting a kick out of trolling Donald Trump over other policies.
The one he s attacking now?
Trump s repeated claims that he s going to bring back all the jobs China supposedly stole from us.It s fairly well known that Trump s clothing line is made in primarily China, making him the king of hypocrites when he says we need to take our jobs back from there.
Vicente Fox actually went on Twitter not just to point out that hypocrisy, but to bluntly slam Trump for it with a pic of himself wearing one of Trump s ties, and showing the label on the tie:Hey @realDonaldTrump, bringing jobs back to US does that include your ties & shirts?
#MadeInChina pic.twitter.com/e5SkBJC42b Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) May 6, 2016But wait!
There s actually more to this.
That tie might have been made in China, but Fox pointed out that other clothes in Trump s Signature Collection were made right next door in Mexico: Donald you are a cheat, again fooling US workers.
V. Fox pic.twitter.com/QYcvfEVKEV Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) May 7, 2016In another tweet with the same photo as the above, he all but said he will be Trump s personal poltergeist for lying to the American people:Donald now manufacturing in Mexico.why you lie to American people?
V. FOX YOUR SHADOW pic.twitter.com/crZZId1zB5 Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) May 7, 2016And finally, Fox s pi ce de r sistance: A question about how much more expensive Trump s clothing line will become if he does manage to institute those heavy tariffs he keeps threatening for countries that steal our jobs: How expensive your suits & ties be if you tax them, @realDonaldTrump?
It s insane to tax products made in China or Mexico #MadeInChina Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) May 7, 2016Fox went on CNN recently to criticize Trump s xenophobia, as well as the fact that he s taken advantage of outsourcing for his own profit.
Trolling him on Twitter now seems to be a continuation of that, considering he told CNN: He s cheating the American people.
It s lie after lie after lie.
Does The Donald ever think about any of this?
It s not likely.
He s shown that he likes to just say whatever seems popular at the time, even if it means flip-flopping his positions.
How s about he actually be an example to the rest of the country and bring his own manufacturing back first?
Oh, wait, that would mean he has to stop taking advantage of a lot of things he s called good business.
Scratch that.
Fox s tweets are spot-on.Featured image via screen captures from embedded tweets