Anti-Trump besties Matt Damon and George Clooney sat down with Good Morning America s Michael Strahan to discuss their good friend, Democrat mega-donor and accused rapist and serial sexual predator, Harvey Weinstein.
Not only did both actors, who owe much of their successful careers to Harvey Weinstein, wait until their reputations were on the line to speak out about the sexual predator, but they waited until only days before their new movie, SUBURBICON is about to debut, to say that they actually knew more about the abuse women received at the hands of the bully movie mogul than they had previously admitted to.Notably absent in the interview is the third actor Ben Affleck, who completes the trio of bestie actors.
After Affleck spoke out on the Harvey Weinstein controversy, he was also accused of covering up Weinstein s behavior, as well as videos that show Affleck used his power to prey on innocent women.
Notice how quickly Damon throws Affleck under the bus, saying he knew, but only told Damon (who of course, never told anyone else).Americans who are sick and tired of sanctimonious, holier-than-thou liberals who have no values or morals, yet try to shame Americans for supporting political candidates who don t hold the same liberal views as theirs, are left with only one option #BoycottSuburbicon and #BoycottHollywood In the interview that aired on Monday morning, George Clooney and Matt Damon said that they knew Weinstein was a bully and womanizer who bragged of bedding actresses but had no idea about the level of criminal behavior that was occurring behind closed doors in hotels.Damon also confessed that he was aware Weinstein had sexually harassed the first lady of Miramax Gwyneth Paltrow just before the actress shot the 1996 film adaptation of Jane Austen s Emma for the studio.
I knew the story about Gwyneth from Ben [Affleck] because he was with her after Brad [Pitt] and so I knew that story, said Damon.
But I was working with Gwyneth and with Harvey on [the 1999 film The Talented Mr.] Ripley.
He then added: I never talked to Gwyneth about it but Ben told me that whatever or agreement they had come to there was an understanding and he treated her incredibly respectfully.
Always.
Affleck and Pitt have not spoken about the incident, and Damon s revelation that he learned about Weinstein s behavior from his friend may cause even more problems for the embattled actor as it seems to contradict his initial statement.
I am saddened and angry that a man who I worked with used his position of power to intimidate, sexually harass and manipulate many women over decades, said Affleck almost one week after news of the scandal broke in a carefully-worded response that seemed to suggest he had never before heard any of the allegations.Damon s decision to characterize the relationship between Paltrow and Weinstein as always respectful is a bit odd as well, considering her admission that she had been sexually harassed by the mogul is part of the reason the men were sitting down for the interview.Clooney meanwhile said that like many of Weinstein s victims, he had been told a number of times by the mogul that he was bedding a number of stars.
Harvey would talk to me about women that he had had affairs with, said Clooney.
I didn t necessarily believe him quite honestly because to believe him would be to believe the worst of some actresses who were friends of mine, and I didn t really think that they had affairs with Harvey and clearly, they didn t.He then added: But the idea that this predator, this assaulter was out there silencing women like that, it s beyond infuriating.
And the fact that the story is coming out now and the more it comes out, I want to know all of it.
Daily MailWatch, as these two actors desperately attempt to save their upcoming movie, Suburbicon , as well as their Hollywood careers:"He didn't do it out in the open."
Matt Damon on Harvey Weinstein: https://t.co/fBSMwurc1A pic.twitter.com/oj1xEPTapz Good Morning America (@GMA) October 23, 2017 It s indefensible.
That s the only word you can start with.
Harvey s admitted to it, and it s indefensible.
I ve known Harvey for 20 years.
He gave me my first big break as an actor in films on From Dusk Till Dawn, he gave me my first big break as a director with Confessions of a Dangerous Mind.
We ve had dinners, we ve been on location together, we ve had arguments.
But I can tell you that I ve never seen any of this behavior ever.I ve heard rumors, and the rumors, in general, started back in the 90s, and they were that certain actresses had slept with Harvey to get a role.
It seemed like a way to smear the actresses and demean them by saying that they didn t get the jobs based on their talent, so I took those rumors with a grain of salt.
But the other part of this, the part we re hearing now about eight women being paid off, I didn t hear anything about that and I don t know anyone that did.
That s a whole other level and there s no way you can reconcile that.
There s nothing to say except that it s indefensible.A lot of people are doing the you had to know thing right now, and yes, if you re asking if I knew that someone who was very powerful had a tendency to hit on young, beautiful women, sure.
But I had no idea that it had gone to the level of having to pay off eight women for their silence, and that these women were threatened and victimized.
I ve been talking with a lot of people about this, and I don t know many people who knew of that.There s an argument that everyone is complicit in it.
I suppose the argument would be, that it s not just about Hollywood, but about all of us, that every time you see someone using their power and influence to take advantage of someone without power and influence and you don t speak up, you re complicit.
And there s no question about that.