As Donald Trump continues to sink with female voters including the crucial white women with a college degree who typically vote Republican his campaign has decided that the best way to court these important voters the only way they know how: blame Hillary Clinton for Bill s infidelities.After failing to bring up the issue at the debate (in which Trump congratulated himself for not doing), surrogates like Rudy Giuliani told reporters Clinton was stupid for staying with Bill (because he has room to talk about cheating), and Trump hinted that in future debates the issue will come up.But it was Trump s deputy campaign manager, David Bossie, who had the most repugnant answer regarding Bill s decades old infidelities:I think that if you look at Hillary Clinton s background and if you look at her being an enabler, really, in the 90s and really attacking these women, it goes against everything that she now tries to spout as a candidate for president.So because Bill cheated that makes Hillary an enabler?
Not leaving her husband in trying marital times somehow makes it all her fault and she should get the flack?
Does that mean Ivana Trump was an enabler?
Does that mean Marla Maples was an enabler?
Who knows, maybe Melania is an enabler.
Given Donald Trump s track record, it wouldn t be so far fetched to assume he s cheated on her already.And, my god, she attacked women who claimed to sleep with her husband while her husband was lying to her face?
That never happens.David Bossie is what we would call a deplorable.
His comments demonstrate a complete lack of sympathy, and an even deeper lack of political knowledge women do not respond well to martial attacks.
As RealClearPolitics writes, Donald Trump is still a long shot candidate for the White House.
Why?
Female voters do not trust him and he s losing with them, badly.What a great campaign strategy Bossie has: lose women at a record rate and then blame the first female candidate for her husband s cheating.
That should go over real well with female voters, who already view Donald Trump as the sexist pig he is.Newsflash to Trump: having Kellyanne Conway, Katrina Pearson and Hope Hicks be the faces of your campaign won t save you when you have people like Bossie, Gingrich and Giuliani flapping their gums about marriage and infidelities.Featured image via Ben Jackson/Getty Images