Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America recently released their newest gun control PSA, and this one stars Saturday Night Live s Rachel Dratch.
The commercial, which is less than two minutes long, starts out fine but takes a dark and terrifying turn at the end.
The PSA is a satirical version of the life of a busy mom.The PSA is a satirical version of the life of a busy mom.
It starts out with Dratch holding a laundry basket on the stairs in her house, saying: I woke up at 6:30 to walk the dog and pack a lunch for fourth grader with a peanut allergy and a seven-year-old who thinks bananas taste like butts!
You then see her character s daughter walking past her with a pair of scissors in her hand.
Rachel grabs the scissors to protect the little girl from getting hurt while continuing to talk about how busy she is.
Her son rides by her on a scooter with no helmet on, so she doesn t miss a beat and puts one on his noggin.Basically, the first half of the commercial is a busy mom, protecting her children as best she can from being hurt in some sort of childhood related accident.
At the end of the clip the family is at their favorite restaurant and suddenly the mood changes:The restaurant is filled with people drinking and they all have guns.
The PSA is obviously targeting states like Texas where it is now legal for ammosexuals to bring their guns into eateries and scare the crap out of our children.
What s worse is that this scenario is completely within the realm of possibility in states like Texas.
According to Eater.com:Even though the open-carrying of weapons is still not allowed in bars and other establishments that make 51 percent of their revenue from alcohol sales, restaurants on the opposite side of the equation are left with a difficult question to answer.So if your local family restaurant makes less than 51 percent of its money on alcohol sales, crazy Bob from down the road can bring his weapon with him, get drunk and accidentally kill your kid with his penile extension.
Murica.Featured image: video screenshot