There has been a lot of tension lately regarding supposedly liberal Hollywood s overt racism.
Many influential actors of color have chosen to boycott the biggest Hollywood awards show of the year for those gracing the silver screen, but one person was obligated to be there because he was hosting comedian Chris Rock.
However, that did not stop him from making his feelings known on the matter.He said that white liberals especially in Hollywood could be what he called sorority racist.
They aren t overtly hateful, but they still practice racism without even realizing it.
He used the equivalent of rushing Greek organizations on college campuses as a comparison, saying in that epically funny way that only Chris Rock can: We like you Ronda, but you re not a Kappa.
Rock also went on to make fun of the supposed efforts of the Academy to make sure there was more diversity in the coming years, in both voters and nominees.
Then, the most awkward moment ever happened, when Rock introduced none other than Clueless actress-turned-Fox-News-talking-head Stacey Dash as the new director of the Academy s minority outreach program.
And the winner for least funny #Oscars bit goes to @FoxNews' @REALStaceyDash: https://t.co/p0FsTAtxPe pic.twitter.com/Qao1iRSKsv Matt Wilstein (@TheMattWilstein) February 29, 2016Now, if you recall, Dash is internalized racism personified.
She has said that channels like BET should be done away with, and has complained about the Oscars boycott.
Those examples are just the tip of the iceberg, because she is clearly the last person Black America needs representing us in Hollywood or anywhere else.
Then again, knowing Chris Rock, this was completely on purpose.The thing is, Chris Rock is right.
This sorority racist stuff is what minorities all over the place go through daily in this white supremacist society.No, we are not a post racial America, not by a long shot.
Not even in liberal Hollywood.Well done, Mr. Rock, for saying what needed to be said.Featured image via video screen capture