Germans call it Backpfeifengesicht.
It s a colloquialism which translated means a face that needs to be hit.
However, you don t need to be German to want to punch Ted Cruz in the face.
While there hasn t been any formal polling on the question, I personally would feel safe wagering money on it being over 50 percent of America.
But what does this all mean?
Are we a nation of unreasonable bullies for wanting this?Doctor Richard Cytowic has taken some time to explain to America why they are not a nation of bad people for their burning desire to smash a knuckle sandwich into Ted Cruz s jaw.
It turns out this is all a very natural and very scientific thing we are experiencing.While I would never actually suggest someone would do something like punch Ted Cruz in the face (I m not suggesting they don t either), the feeling that you want to means you are operating at a normal mental state so just enjoy the feeling and embrace it within reason.Dr.
Cytowic explained that humans learn to read facial expressions from the day they are born.
It s one of our most rudimentary and instinctual means of communication.
Our brains have had a million years of practice at reading facial expressions, generating an instant like or dislike of the person that they are attached to.
To put it more simply, it s an evolutionary survival trait to determine friend from foe, and our brains are extremely good at it by now.With this in mind, it explains a lot about why practically everyone hates Ted Cruz.
It isn t just his policy.
There are oodles of idiot Republicans we could hate for that same reason.
Ted brings out a more visceral and emotional reaction, unlike most others.
Even among his fellow Republicans nobody likes him, and that says a lot.Dr.
Cytowic goes on to describe how Cruz s facial expressions do not shift the way normal Human expression does.
He has rarely observed a normal smile from Ted Cruz.
In a normal smile the corners of the mouth go up, and the muscles circling the eyes contract making them narrow and forming crow s feet at the outside corners.
When it comes to Ted, his mouth just tightens into a straight line, and on the rare occasion that it deviates from this, the corners bend downward.
The outside of his eyes bend downward as well, which is completely opposite of what is normal, as the eyebrows typically bend upwards.To put it simply, Ted Cruz has a look of disgust on his face that only gets worse when he tries to look happy and smile.
It s like he is some kind of anti-politician, because you would think that someone who has his kind of fan base would naturally be able to express themselves more pleasantly.
So remember, when you see Ted on TV and you want to throw something at the screen, it means you re ok because it s only natural.Featured image from Twitter