Just one day after Paul Ryan failed to garner support from his own base to repeal and replace Obamacare, a proposal alleged president Donald Trump staunchly supported, Rep. John Culberson (R-TX) had to face hundreds of angry constituents at a town hall in Texas on Saturday.
Let s just say that he didn t have a good weekend.We ll give Culberson credit for at least showing up while many of his colleagues refuse to face their own constituents.
There were claims that the angry constituents were paid protesters, but, to gain entry into the auditorium attendees had to prove their residency by showing either a photo I.D.
with a current address or a photo I.D.
with a current utility bill.Constituents packed into a Houston middle school auditorium that was filled to a capacity of 700 with many remaining outside.
About 500 people remained in a line outside, shouting, Let us in!
Let us in!Culberson had to face questions about Donald Trump and the Republicans agenda on health care.
You know what, folks?
I m either going to answer the question, or we re just going to spend the time yelling, Culberson told his crowd of constituents, according to the Houston Chronicle.The Texas congressman told his constituents that even though Republicans failed to pass Trumpcare, he was still committed to repealing and replacing Obamacare.
That, too, didn t go down well.
The only way to fix it is to replace it, he said while his constituents chanted, Fix it, the Texas Tribune reports.When asked about the amateur president s proposal to cut the State Department, Culberson said he did not support the cuts while the crowd chanted, Yes or no.
I just answered, he responded.
The answer is no.
I ll work hard to protect the Department of State.
Culberson was pretty much booed the entire time:He also said he would support funding for the National Institutes for Health and the National Endowment for the Arts, per the Texas Tribune.
He told the crowd that he would support funding for public broadcasting in the short term, but that those programs should ultimately be self-supporting, which was met with boos from the crowd, according to the Houston Chronicle.Here s the video:As a shock to no one ever, Culberson said it is up to the President whether he releases his tax returns.Then, instead of taking questions from constituents who waited for an hour and a half outside and reporters who were behind him, Culberson quickly left through the back door after the town hall.
Funny thing, when you try to take away healthcare from millions of Americans, they get mad.Image via screen capture.