The Republican Party may have done more than shoot themselves in the foot by supporting Donald Trump as their nominee, and President Obama couldn t be happier about it.During an appearance with Jimmy Fallon that will air on Thursday night, the Tonight Show host asked Obama what his role will be during the 2016 race to succeed him in the White House.
The role I m going to be playing in this process is to remind the American people this is a serious job, Obama said.
This is not reality TV.
Clearly, President Obama just took a shot at Trump with that statement.
After all, Trump is the only candidate in the field who has been a reality TV star.
Trump hosted The Apprentice for 14 seasons until his racist presidential campaign announcement caused NBC to cut ties with him.
Do you think Republicans are happy with their choice?
Fallon asked President Obama.Using his great comedic timing, Obama responded, Umm, we are, and the audience broke out in laughter.
That was too easy, Obama continued.
The truth is that I m worried about the Republican Party.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, Donald Trump is the gift that keeps on giving for the Democrats as they have gladly sat back and watched the Republican nominee tear apart the GOP piece by piece.
Republicans are split on their support for Trump, especially as he continues hurling racist attacks against the judge presiding over the Trump University lawsuit.That alone has caused many Republicans to withdraw their endorsements, while other Republicans like House Speaker Paul Ryan have condemned Trump s racism but still support the racist for the presidency, causing even extreme conservative publisher Erik Erickson to blast Republicans for betraying their principles by supporting Trump.This is not only a preview of what President Obama had to say on the Tonight Show, it s a preview of how we can expect President Obama to deal with Donald Trump when he finally hits the campaign trail.
And it s pretty clear that President Obama thinks Trump is a joke.Featured image via screen capture