Donald Trump has turned America into an international laughingstock and he hasn t even taken office yet.For weeks, Trump has been antagonizing China by speaking with the leader of Taiwan, which goes against decades of precedent, and has questioned the One-China policy.
Both actions have put a strain on America s relationship with the most populous nation on Earth.Clearly, Donald Trump intends to keep taking aim at our largest trading partner, imperiling both our foreign policy and the world economy at a time when Americans are prospering under the economic successes of President Obama.Well, China is now laughing at Trump for being a national embarrassment.CNN s John Berman pointed out that an editorial by state-run Global Times of China mocked Trump.
Trump s thinking about China is becoming increasingly clear: He wants China to make huge economic and trade concessions to the U.S. To achieve that, he is willing to stir certain calm areas in China-U.S. relations, including treating the Taiwan issues as his trump card.
We were simply angry initially, but now we can t help but laugh at this U.S. leader-in-waiting.
Maybe American voters promoted him too quickly, his amateur remarks and over-confident manner are equally shocking.
Here s the video via YouTube.A separate editorial in the Global Times warns that Trump s arrogance will likely lead to a major confrontation between the United States and China.The leader of world order seems to be throwing away its job to grab the most advantages.
The chaos it may bring to the world is much more severe than a war or a crisis.
China faces the challenge of Trump s meddling with the one-China policy.Moreover, China may suffer from a shaken world order.
The one-China policy is one part of the existing world order.
Trump not only wants to scrap the one-China policy, but also aims at an overall change.In a changing landscape, enhancing one s own strength is most important.
Trump has shown strategic arrogance that is beyond America s strength and he seems to be confident that anyone he asks will yield to him.It is quite likely that China and the US will face a head-on confrontation.
China must be quick in preparing for sharp provocations from the Trump administration.
China s win over this confrontation will serve as the basis for normal exchanges between the two in the future.This is why Americans need to oust Trump before it s too late.
He is not only turning America into a joke on the world stage, he is bullying a nation that could punish us economically and go toe to toe with us militarily.
We need to cultivate our relationship with China, not sever it.
Antagonizing China will only piss them off and make things much more complicated.
That s not what America needs right now.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images