Donald Trump s undeserved time in the White House may soon come to a gloriously relieving end as one of his biggest scandals threatens to blow up in his face.According to a source close to the investigation examining the ties between Russia and the Trump campaign, there is now specific concrete and corroborative evidence that Trump s inner circle colluded with Russian operatives during the presidential election.
The Guardian reported that the U.K. s Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), which has been watching over the Trump campaign since 2015, has noted several shady interactions going on between Trump s people and Russian agents.The GCHQ hadn t been necessarily looking for this information but picked it up during routine surveillance.
It wasn t long before other intelligence agencies began to see the same pattern.
The U.S. also received information from the Five Eyes alliance (U.S., U.K., Canada, Australia and New Zealand) and European agencies in Germany, Estonia, and Poland.
The Guardian reported: It is understood that GCHQ was at no point carrying out a targeted operation against Trump or his team or proactively seeking information.
The alleged conversations were picked up by chance as part of routine surveillance of Russian intelligence assets.
Over several months, different agencies targeting the same people began to see a pattern of connections that were flagged to intelligence officials in the US.
With all of this gathered intelligence taken into consideration, the source close to the investigation said: They now have specific concrete and corroborative evidence of collusion.
This is between people in the Trump campaign and agents of [Russian] influence relating to the use of hacked material.
They [the European agencies] were saying: There are contacts going on between people close to Mr Trump and people we believe are Russian intelligence agents.
You should be wary of this.
The message was: Watch out.
There s something not right.'
As this investigation continues and collusion is confirmed, we might be looking at the end of Trump and his corrupt administration.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images