While America is still recovering from the shocking shooting that occurred at a Republican baseball game in which Rep. Steve Scalise and four others were injured, many conservatives are still using the shooting as a way to promote division within America.Many Republicans were quick to place blame on the Democratic party, and today Donald Trump s White House adviser Kellyanne Conway jumped at the opportunity to strengthen those accusations.
In an appearance on Fox & Friends, Conway trashed the media and Democrats for criticizing Trump at the time of the shooting, arguing that it was Democrats who were creating division in the country by refusing to praise Trump for his poor performance as POTUS.
Conway said: I went back and looked at exactly what was being discussed on all the TV shows, except yours, at 7:09 a.m. on Wednesday, when this happened, and it s a really curious exercise, because as Steve Scalise was fighting for his life and crawling into right field in a trail of blood, you should go back and see what people were saying about the president and Republicans at that very moment.
Of course, they had to break in with the news of this tragedy, and since then there s been some introspection some quieter, more muted voices toning down the rhetoric.
Then, Conway s rant got even more strange.
Still trying to pretend that her boss isn t the source of a good portion of the hate and division we are seeing in America today, she tried to give the bizarre example of her own death to make her point.
She said: But look at Twitter.
If I was shot and killed tomorrow, half of Twitter would explode in applause and excitement this is the world we live in now.
Well, according to Trump himself, he could technically shoot Conway on a busy street in New York and get away with it as he once bragged about.
So for Conway to be blaming Democrats for the tension that our current Republican POTUS has created is beyond unfair and misguided.While many Republicans were blaming the opposite party, Democrats were praying and sending supportive messages in solidarity with their GOP colleagues disproving Conway s accusations entirely.
You can watch Conway s ridiculous rant below.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images