Republicans found their new election year wedge issue.
Since they lost on Obamacare, marriage equality, and Benghazi, the new rage source they identified is Harriet Tubman being placed on the $20 bill.This is the new big deal.
It s practically an attack on the Constitution itself.
Right?It certainly seems to be for Republicans, at least.
So many people on the right are exploding over the idea of replacing Jackson on the $20 bill now.
However, this isn t new news.
This has been planned for a relatively long time.
They KNEW this was coming, and there was no outrage right up until someone who was both non-white and non-male was going to do the replacing.Luckily, Fox News Greta Van Susteren came up with the perfect response.
Her plan is to leave white people s money as it is and make separate money for non-whites.
No, that s not a joke.
She literally said we should make a new $25 bill so that Jackson could stay in place.Let s do a bit of critical thinking, based on a bit of history.
A Susan B. Anthony dollar coin was released by the government a long time ago.
EVERYBODY hated it.
Not only did it look like a quarter, and people got confused by that, but it was redundant.
We already had a $1 bill that everyone was accustomed to.
Not every cash register has room for a new bill slot either.
Certain types of automated bill changing machines would have to be retrofit for a $25 bill as well.The point is that a whole new denomination of money would be an annoyance and hassle, and the public would not have any patience for it.
To put it into context, America has had a $2 bill with Thomas Jefferson on it for a really long time.
Do you know ANYONE who uses them?
Do you even remember the last time you saw one outside of some novelty situation for collectors?To sum it up, the Republican party thinks that the only place for a woman or a non-white person when it comes to money, is on something that will be marginalized by society Just like how they ve marginalized women and non-white people for decades!
It really makes a lot of sense when you look at it that way.
Doesn t it?Watch Greta prove that Fox respects equality by hiring stupid employees of both sexes below: Featured image via video screen capture