Donald Trump may call his disaster of a raid in Yemen last week a success, but the rest of the world views it as just one of the more deadly ways in which he has demonstrated his ineptitude and now we are paying the price.Not only did Trump completely miss his main target, Qassim al-Rimi, who is currently mocking him, but the poorly-planned raid slaughtered 30 civilians including 10 women and children (one of them a U.S. citizen).
Three U.S. service members were injured and a Navy SEAL was killed.So what went wrong?
Everything.Trump reportedly decided to go ahead with the raid over dinner after his cabinet convinced him it was the right thing to do by telling him that Obama would not have the balls to go through with him (seriously, that s all it took).
According to a senior U.S. intelligence official, almost everything went wrong once the team arrived.
Officials say Trump approved the attack without sufficient intelligence, ground support or adequate backup preparations.
On top of failing to kill his target, slaughtering civilians wholesale, murdering a U.S. citizen, and getting a SEAL killed with his bumbling mess of an operation, the intel that was gathered is garbage.
The military is touting three videos they recovered from the raid as evidence of success but the videos are a decade old and available on YouTube.Because of all this, Yemen has decided that they don t want Trump coming in and wrecking their living room again.
The New York Times reports:Angry at the civilian casualties incurred last month in the first commando raid authorized by President Trump, Yemen has withdrawn permission for the United States to run Special Operations ground missions against suspected terrorist groups in the country, according to American officials.Grisly photographs of children apparently killed in the crossfire of a 50-minute firefight during the raid caused outrage in Yemen.
A member of the Navy s SEAL Team 6, Chief Petty Officer William Owens, was also killed in the operation.While the White House continues to insist that the attack was a success a characterization it repeated on Tuesday the suspension of commando operations is a setback for Mr. Trump, who has made it clear he plans to take a far more aggressive approach against Islamic militants.
The fool of the White House got slapped at the beginning of his road in your lands, al-Rimi said in a video following Trump s failed raid.
Yemen s decision not to let Trump play with his toys in their house is a bit uncomfortable for The Donald, who promised to step up our approach to fighting terrorism.
Now that he is President, he has done nothing but hurt that effort.Watch a report on the raid below:Featured image via Getty Images/Pool