On July 3, William Brumby accidentally shot his 14-year-old son, Stephen, at the High Noon Gun Range, located in Sarasota, Florida.
The teen was rushed by ambulance to Sarasota Memorial Hospital, where he died as result of a gunshot injury.According to WFLA: William Brumby was positioned in the last shooting lane where there was a solid wall on his right-hand side.
After firing a round, the spent shell casing struck the wall causing it to deflect and fall into the back of Mr. Brumby s shirt.
That s when the teen s father reached his other hand, which was holding the gun, behind his back to remove the shell.
The gun was accidentally discharged.
The bullet struck the 14-year-old, who was standing behind his father at the time.
He was shot in the neck.Brumby s 12-year-old daughter and adult son were both present at the time of the shooting.During an interview with Fox 13, David Brumby, the brother of the teen who was killed, said immediately upon realizing he had shot his son, William Brumby began screaming and begging someone to call 911.
He described the shooting as a freak one-in-a-million accident.
David Brumby told Fox 13 that his father wanted the 14-year-old to learn to shoot a gun so that he would be able to protect himself.
The High Noon Gun Range was built in 2013.
At the time it opened, it was described as the safest gun range ever designed, by the Herald Tribune.According to the company s website, the first three rules of the range are:I will handle all firearms as if they are LOADED.I will keep my finger off the trigger when not immediately firing my weapon at my designated target.Finger must be out of the gun s trigger guard and off the trigger until your sights are aligned on a safe target and you have made the decision to fire.I will always be certain of my target, direction of my shot, and the surrounding areas before firing.The problem with deadly weapons is that they re deadly.
If you make a mistake, as everyone is bound to do at some point, people end up dead.
Oops I forgot to take my finger off the trigger, suddenly becomes Oops I just killed my own son.
Here s more on this story from Fox 13 in Sarasota.Image credit: video screen capture Fox 13