This is especially monumental since the Wall Street Journal is a conservative newspaper.Donald Trump is running out of supporters, and that includes his supporters within the media.The straw that appears to have broken the camel s back is Trump s accusation that President Obama wiretapped him during the 2016 Election.
Of course, Trump offered zero evidence to back up his claim then and he still hasn t provided any now.But when FBI Director James Comey testified to Congress under oath that Trump s wiretapping accusation is complete bullshit, whatever shred of credibility Trump had left imploded in an instant and now some right-wing media outlets are backing away from him.Fox News began distancing themselves from Trump after he threw them under the bus because Sean Spicer repeated a claim that President Obama enlisted British intelligence to wiretap Trump, which was basd o a conspiracy theory offered up by Fox legal analyst Andrew Napolitano, who has since been refuted by the network and removed from all programming indefinitely.And now the Wall Street Journal appears to also be coming to their senses.In a piece published on Tuesday, the Journal slammed Trump for clinging to his lies about Obama like a drunk person clinging to an empty bottle.
The President clings to his assertion like a drunk to an empty gin bottle, rolling out his press spokesman to make more dubious claims, the Journal wrote.
Sean Spicer who doesn t deserve this treatment was dispatched last week to repeat an assertion by a Fox News commentator that perhaps the Obama Administration had subcontracted the wiretap to British intelligence.
The Journal then pointed out that Trump did this all the time during the election and that he was able to get away with it at the time because his supporters did not care about the truth.
As Trump said during the campaign, he could have murdered someone in broad daylight on the street and his supporters would have still voted for him.But Trump is in the White House now, and that means his usual tired rhetoric and outrageous accusations horrify more people than it amuses because the American people as a whole are watching.
And most of them despise Trump and are terrified of what he will do next.Trump s credibility has imploded here and abroad as he has caused international incidents between us and some of our strongest allies.
For instance, he insulted Great Britain and Germany in the week alone and has also insulted Mexico, Australia, and China.
How is Trump going to convince other nations to support our foreign policies if he can t even get along with the nations we get along with the most?
All of this continues the pattern from the campaign that Mr. Trump is his own worst political enemy, the Journal continues.
He survived his many false claims as a candidate because his core supporters treated it as mere hyperbole and his opponent was untrustworthy Hillary Clinton.
But now he s President, and he needs support beyond the Breitbart cheering section that will excuse anything.
As he is learning with the health-care bill, Mr. Trump needs partners in his own party to pass his agenda.
He also needs friends abroad who are willing to trust him when he asks for support, not least in a crisis.
The Journal then concluded by calling attention to the fact that Trump s poll numbers are in the toilet and that Americans think he s a fraud.
Two months into his Presidency, Gallup has Mr. Trump s approval rating at 39%.
No doubt Mr. Trump considers that fake news, but if he doesn t show more respect for the truth most Americans may conclude he s a fake President.
Frankly, it s too late for Trump to rebuild his credibility, assuming he had any to begin with.
He refuses to admit he was wrong and refuses to apologize even when he is proven wrong beyond a shadow of a doubt.
He has lied so much in just the first 60 days of his presidency that even Richard Nixon would be embarrassed.At this point, Trump needs to resign or he should be impeached.
America cannot afford to put up with his lies any longer.
He is going to cause an international incident someday that could get us all killed because he couldn t keep his big mouth shut.
He s a disgrace to the nation and out Constitution and he must be stopped before he humiliates America worse than he has already.Featured image via Olivier Douliery Pool/Getty Images