Despite Donald Trump s promises on the campaign trail to drain the swamp, keep insiders out of the White House, and to take on corporate and moneyed interests on behalf of the little guy, his appointments so far have shown he has no interest whatsoever in following through.
His pick for Secretary of the Treasury, Steven Mnuchin, is as swamp monster as they come.He spent 17 years at Goldman-Sachs, for example, which admitted it defrauded people and was partially responsible for the Great Recession.
A billionaire investment banker and hedge fund manager is the last person we need running the Treasury.
And Bernie Sanders agrees.
He totally wrecked Donald Trump over the hypocritical pick, saying, During the campaign Trump railed against Wall Street.
Now Trump nominates a former Goldman Sachs executive to lead Treasury.
What hypocrisy!
Here is the Tweet in question: During the campaign Trump railed against Wall Street.
Now Trump nominates a former Goldman Sachs executive to lead Treasury.
What hypocrisy!
Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) December 4, 2016The rest of Trump s picks so far aren t any better it s a list of political insiders and bankers.
What else did people really expect?Steven Mnuchin is straight swamp scum.
He ran a bank that raked in cash on bad loans during the financial crises, intentionally devastating the lives of working class Americans to turn a profit:When Mnuchin bought California subprime mortgage lender IndyMac, it was one of the financial crisis high-profile bank failures.
He could face some heat over the fact that he made billions thanks to the generous terms of the deal with the FDIC.
He may also face questions about some of the practices at the bank, which later admitted to regulators that it failed to follow protocol when it foreclosed on homeowners struggling with risky mortgages.
Also during his tenure, OneWest was charged by federal regulators with filing false documents during foreclosures.
Employees also failed to make sure they had the correct loan documentation before the bank seized a home.
The scandal, which became known as robo-signing, reached many other major backs as well.
OneWest eventually admitted its wrongdoing in a consent decree with regulators.
(Source)So, there you have it Donald Trump s pick for Secretary of the Treasury.
It s easy to see why a man of the people like Senator Bernie Sanders would be upset by this.
Yet, here s the real question when are Trump s supporters going to start seeing that they ve been lied to and conned?Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images