The Obama administration has spent over $166 million federal dollars on the childhood obesity program started by Michelle Obama.
What s curious about this is the breakdown in numbers and why only minorities.
The Obama administration has been dolling out millions to minority only groups to prevent obesity and another program called Padres to prevent smoking.
Some of the projects funded through the USDA are simply outrageous and reek of fraud and waste: The Latino Fathers Promoting Healthy Youth Behavior project is getting $998,484 so that academics at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis can conduct an eight-week study that addresses paternal parenting practices related to the food and physical activity environment in the home.
Don t forget that this is YOUR money being thrown around!The Obama administration just allocated another $10.8 million to tackle childhood obesity among minorities, including about $1 million to a project called Latino Fathers Promoting Healthy Youth Behavior that aims to prevent obesity among Latino youth in a culturally and linguistically-appropriate prevention program.
It s part of a federal initiative called Childhood Obesity Challenge Area that has doled out north of $166 million since the president and his wife launched it in 2011.The cash flows through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and funds all sorts of outrageous projects like the disastrous healthy public-school lunches that have resulted in massive waste and caused uproar among students and parents.
First Lady Michelle Obama made it her mission to tackle this particular cause because child and adolescent obesity has tripled in the past 30 years, according to information released by the USDA s special Agriculture and Food Research Initiative (AFRI) Childhood Obesity Prevention Challenge Area.
Low income children and adolescents are more likely to be obese than their higher income counterparts, but the relationship is not consistent across race and ethnicity groups, the agency states.To deal with this epidemic the administration has dedicated a lot of taxpayer money, more than $166 million, according to USDA figures.
This latest chunk is going to six universities that will find innovative ways to eradicate childhood obesity among this demographic.
The Latino Fathers Promoting Healthy Youth Behavior project is getting $998,484 so that academics at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis can conduct an eight-week study that addresses paternal parenting practices related to the food and physical activity environment in the home.
Researchers claim that participation will increase father involvement in positive parenting practices to address youth energy balance-related behaviors.
It appears that they convinced Uncle Sam to fund their project by claiming that few evidence-based interventions have specifically targeted Latino fathers of youth regarding parenting practices that impact youth behaviors.
It will be modeled after another government-funded program called Padres designed to prevent tobacco and substance abuse among Latino youth by engaging families in culturally and linguistically-appropriate training.Read more: Judicial Watch