Wikileaks founder Julian Assange has clearly stated his leaks did not come from Russia.
Watch:Former UK ambassador to Uzbekistan Craig Murray, who is a close associate of Julian Assange, said he has met the DNC leaker and he s not Russian.
h/t GPI have watched incredulous as the CIA s blatant lie has grown and grown as a media story blatant because the CIA has made no attempt whatsoever to substantiate it.
There is no Russian involvement in the leaks of emails showing Clinton s corruption.
Yes this rubbish has been the lead today in the Washington Post in the US and the Guardian here, and was the lead item on the BBC main news.
I suspect it is leading the American broadcasts also.A little simple logic demolishes the CIA s claims.
The CIA claim they know the individuals involved.
Yet under Obama the USA has been absolutely ruthless in its persecution of whistleblowers, and its pursuit of foreign hackers through extradition.
We are supposed to believe that in the most vital instance imaginable, an attempt by a foreign power to destabilize a US election, even though the CIA knows who the individuals are, nobody is going to be arrested or extradited, or (if in Russia) made subject to yet more banking and other restrictions against Russian individuals?
Plainly it stinks.
The anonymous source claims of We know who it was, it was the Russians are beneath contempt.As Julian Assange has made crystal clear, the leaks did not come from the Russians.
As I have explained countless times, they are not hacks, they are insider leaks there is a major difference between the two.
And it should be said again and again, that if Hillary Clinton had not connived with the DNC to fix the primary schedule to disadvantage Bernie, if she had not received advance notice of live debate questions to use against Bernie, if she had not accepted massive donations to the Clinton foundation and family members in return for foreign policy influence, if she had not failed to distance herself from some very weird and troubling people, then none of this would have happened.It is terrible that the prime conduit for this paranoid nonsense is a once great newspaper, the Washington Post, which far from investigating executive power, now is a sounding board for totally evidence free anonymous source briefing of utter bullshit from the executive.In the UK, one single article sums up the total abnegation of all journalistic standards.
The truly execrable Jonathan Freedland of the Guardian writes Few credible sources doubt that Russia was behind the hacking of internal Democratic party emails, whose release by Julian Assange was timed to cause maximum pain to Hillary Clinton and pleasure for Trump.
Does he produce any evidence at all for this assertion?
No, none whatsoever.
What does a journalist mean by a credible source ?
Well, any journalist worth their salt in considering the credibility of a source will first consider access.
Do they credibly have access to the information they claim to have?Now both Julian Assange and I have stated definitively the leak does not come from Russia.
Do we credibly have access?
Yes, very obviously.
Very, very few people can be said to definitely have access to the source of the leak.
The people saying it is not Russia are those who do have access.
After access, you consider truthfulness.
Do Julian Assange and I have a reputation for truthfulness?
Well in 10 years not one of the tens of thousands of documents WikiLeaks has released has had its authenticity successfully challenged.
As for me, I have a reputation for inconvenient truth telling.Contrast this to the credible sources Freedland relies on.
What access do they have to the whistleblower?
Zero.
They have not the faintest idea who the whistleblower is.
Otherwise they would have arrested them.
What reputation do they have for truthfulness?
It s the Clinton gang and the US government, for goodness sake.The worst thing about all this is that it is aimed at promoting further conflict with Russia.
This puts everyone in danger for the sake of more profits for the arms and security industries including of course bigger budgets for the CIA.
As thankfully the four year agony of Aleppo comes swiftly to a close today, the Saudi and US armed and trained ISIS forces counter by moving to retake Palmyra.
This game kills people, on a massive scale, and goes on and on.
For entire blog post, go to: Craig MurrayIt s worth mentioning, the murder case of Seth Rich, a 27 year old DNC operative has not yet been solved.Possible Whistle Blower on Democratic Party Voter #Fraud assassinated in Washington DC,not in MsM https://t.co/Cbem0AJvw5 #DNC Egypt Built (@HosamDakhakhni) July 12, 2016On August 9, 2016 Julian Assange offered a $20,000 reward for information that would lead to the conviction of the person or people who murdered Seth Rich.
Why did Assange make that offer?ANNOUNCE: WikiLeaks has decided to issue a US$20k reward for information leading to conviction for the murder of DNC staffer Seth Rich.
WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) August 9, 2016While Wilileaks Julian Assange was being interviewed by John Pilger, he brought up the death of Seth Rich:Watch Assange s reaction to Pilger s question during the same interview in slow motion here.
What do you think?
Is he nodding in agreement to his question about Seth Rich?THE RUSSIA HOAX: Julian Assange acknowledges murdered DNC staffer Seth Rich was Wikileaks' source.
Why is MSM covering this up?
#Trump pic.twitter.com/FS297JooQI ViveLaFrance (@vivelafra) December 11, 2016Here is part of the conversation:Julian Assange: Whistleblowers go to significant efforts to get us material and often very significant risks.
As a 27 year-old, works for the DNC, was shot in the back, murdered just a few weeks ago for unknown reasons as he was walking down the street in Washington.Reporter: That was just a robbery, I believe.
Wasn t it?Julian Assange: No.
There s no finding.
So I m suggesting that our sources take risks.Perhaps Obama should stop blaming the Russians and start asking the FBI and CIA to take a closer look at the unsolved murder of Seth Rich.
But if the answer lies within the Democrat Party, that s probably not gonna happen.
Obama and Hillary would rather start a war with Russia