They haven t toured in ten years but the Dixie Chicks began their new world tour by making one hell of a political statement.The trio have never been shy about slamming Republicans in the past.
Just ask Ted Cruz and George W. Bush, both of whom have been heavily mocked and criticized by the band.In 2003, radio stations across the country literally censored the Dixie Chicks by pulling their music off the air because Natalie Maines dared to slam Bush for dragging America into a costly war with Iraq.During a concert in London, Maines said she was ashamed the president of the United States is from Texas.
Just so you know, we re on the good side with y all, Maines said.
We do not want this war, this violence, and we re ashamed that the president of the United States is from Texas.
Not long after, Bush started a war based on lies that resulted in the deaths of over 4,000 American soldiers.
That action forced America to fight on two fronts in the Middle East and caused the war in Afghanistan and the hunt for Osama bin Laden to take even longer as Bush took his eye off the ball to focus on Saddam Hussein instead of the terrorist who planned the 9/11 attacks.And Maines has taken shots at Ted Cruz and Donald Trump throughout the Republican primary on her Twitter account.Next time you re day dreaming, picture Donald Trump teaching his son Eric to throw a ball.
Any ball.
It s funny.
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) March 16, 2016 You know I m not a big fan of Ted Cruz, but I gotta say I m kind of liking his new facial hair.
pic.twitter.com/VIC8JWXNKx Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) January 27, 2016I stand corrected Just so you know, I m ashamed Ted Cruz claims to be American.
pic.twitter.com/JUltNImOXH Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) January 24, 2016 As long as Donald Trump s decisions for America are as solid as his decision about his hair, we re in good shape.
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) January 24, 2016On Wednesday, however, the Dixie Chicks humiliated Trump while on stage in Cincinnati by depicting him as the devil on the big screen behind them while singing a tune about a husband who abuses his wife.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is a vile racist who is so thin-skinned that it would be easy to provoke him into using the military to attack countries he doesn t like if he should actually be given command of our armed forces by the American people in November.
He has even refused to rule out nuclear war against Europe and the Middle East which puts our military and the entire world population at serious risk.
America does not need any more wars, but electing Donald Trump as president would just about guarantee perpetual war and it looks like the Dixie Chicks are prepared to wage political war against Trump to make sure that doesn t happen.Featured Image: Screenshot