A few years ago, teenage pop star Justin Bieber angered many people by commenting that he thought Holocaust victim Anne Frank would have been a belieber.
Today, the 70-year-old President of the United States and his enablers pulled a similarly bone-headed stunt.
Bieber was 19 at the time.
What s Trump s excuse?Visitors to Trump s Mar-a-Lago resort were shocked to find that over the weekend, his staff hung banners honoring Abraham Lincoln by photoshopping a Make America Great Again trucker hat onto the former president s head.This is genuinely hanging in Mar-a-Lago for a dinner honoring Lincoln pic.twitter.com/sRQLtjwBi4 B (@bXbyrne) March 25, 2017The banner went up in conjunction with a Republican Party of Palm Beach County dinner to celebrate Lincoln Day.
Honoring Lincoln apparently didn t include celebrating his actual accomplishments, but connecting him to Donald Trump.They were so proud of this feat of egomania that they distributed the picture in the dinner program as well.The cover of the 2017 Lincoln Day Dinner program for Republican Party of Palm Beach County tonight at Mar-a-Lago.
@WPTV pic.twitter.com/SJPlB8V6qb Andrew Lofholm (@AndrewLofholm) March 24, 2017The only person who might find this stunt in good taste is Donald Trump who recently learned that Abraham Lincoln was a Republican.
Great president.
Most people don t even know he was a Republican.
Right?
Does anyone know?
A lot of people don t know that.
We have to build that up a little more.
The Florida Republicans hosting the dinner (which, itself, is probably an ethics violation due to the fact that the current president owns the resort and will profit from it) seemed to take Trump s idea and run with it.That s an awfully big dose of wishful thinking.
While it s impossible to know what a man who has been dead for 152 years would make of modern life, the idea that he would enthusiastically endorse a race-baiting grifter like Donald Trump is hard to picture.
Trump couldn t even get a single living president to support him.
Adding to that, the fact that Lincoln is widely regarded as perhaps America s greatest orator only makes it more unlikely that he would be impressed by a guy who can barely string two sentences together coherently.I mean, seriously look at this garbage: Look, having nuclear my uncle was a great professor and scientist and engineer, Dr. John Trump at MIT; good genes, very good genes, OK, very smart, the Wharton School of Finance, very good, very smart you know, if you re a conservative Republican, if I were a liberal, if, like, OK, if I ran as a liberal Democrat, they would say I m one of the smartest people anywhere in the world it s true!
but when you re a conservative Republican they try oh, do they do a number.
It s not exactly Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
If Lincoln were alive today, he would probably have a really articulate, beautiful way of saying Donald Trump, go screw yourself.
I ll have to settle for saying it as plainly as that.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images