But wait If WMD s have been banned by the international community, how is it possible for ISIS to use them against the West?
Is the Left finally waking up to realize bad guys don t follow the rules?
ISIS already has smuggled chemical and biological weapons into the EU The terror organisation has also recruited chemists and physicists Western governments warned to alert the public about potential attackISIS has recruited experts with chemistry, physics and computer science degrees to wage war with weapons of mass destruction against the West, a shocking European Parliament report has claimed.The terror organisation, according to the briefing document, may be planning to try to use internationally banned weapons of mass destruction in future attacks .The document, which was compiled in the aftermath of the deadly attacks on Paris claimed that ISIS has already smuggled WMD material into Europe.Experts fear that ISIS will be able to exploit a failure of EU governments to share information on possible terrorists.
Already, British police forces have been conducting exercises on how to deal with various types of terrorist attack.
But the EU report claims that government should consider publicly addressing the possibility of terrorist attack using chemical, biological, radiological or even nuclear materials .The report, ISIL/Da esh and non-conventional weapons of terror warns: At present, European citizens are not seriously contemplating the possibility that extremist groups might use chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) materials during attacks in Europe.
Under these circumstances, the impact of such an attack, should it occur, would be even more destabilising.
Rob Wainwright, head of Europol said after the attacks on Paris: We are dealing with a very serious, well-resourced, determined international terrorist organisation that is now active on the streets of Europe.
This represents the most serious terrorist threat faced in Europe for 10 years.
Mr Wainwright warned that ISIS had serious capabilities in terms of resources and manpower.
Intelligence services have also been warned to screen returning Jihadi fighters for specialist CBRN knowledge .
Interpol s monthly CBRN intelligence reports show numerous examples of attempts to acquire, smuggle or use CBRN materials.
Via: UK Daily Mail