If there is a single theme around this year s presidential contest, it s that suddenly, it s okay for Americans to let their racist freak flags fly high in the air.
In case you thought most of those Trump-fueled racists were Baby Boomers and older, you d be wrong.
A high school in Montana turned its annual homecoming event into a white pride rally.The annual competition is called Color Wars.
Normally, that has a pretty innocuous meaning.
Each class is assigned a color (black for seniors, white for juniors, blue for sophomores and green for freshman).
Whichever class gets the most people to wear the colors wins.Like I said, normally, this is all in good fun, but this is the year of Trump, and well, white pride has risen again.
Two juniors, a boy and a girl, wore white as they were supposed to, but with a little extra touch.
Their t-shirts had Trump 2016 White Pride scrolled in sharpie on the backs.Photos showed that the front of the male student s shirt was covered with a Confederate flag and large red letters that spelled REDNECK.
On the front of the girl s shirt was handwritten in all-caps: WHITE POWER.
Source: Washington PostHere s the video:KPAX.com | Continuous News | Missoula & Western MontanaPolson High School smartest students?
Not!
#montanamoment #CNN #ACLU pic.twitter.com/sagV2xWQ3R Jozi (@Jonz77) September 30, 2016Polson High School Gets National Attention With Controversial T-Shirts State Headlines https://t.co/jXpGCDedgF 96.3 The Blaze (@963theblazefm) October 3, 2016The two students have been suspended, but some are blaming the school, saying that Color Wars, by definition would encourage this type of behavior.
The school has never had this happen before, though, so let s see what has changed?
It s clearly Donald Trump.
Not only has Trump emboldened people who have always been racist, Trump is helping solidify a whole new generation of racists.
And for those young people who aren t racist, Trump is creating fear:It s producing an alarming level of fear and anxiety among children of color and inflaming racial and ethnic tensions in the classroom.
Many students worry about being deported.Other students have been emboldened by the divisive, often juvenile rhetoric in the campaign.
Teachers have noted an increase in bullying, harassment and intimidation of students whose races, religions or nationalities have been the verbal targets of candidates on the campaign trail.Source: Southern Poverty Law CenterIf this doesn t prove to otherwise reasonable Republicans that Trump is very, very dangerous for the future of the country, nothing will.Featured image via Twitter.