Sarah Huckabee Sanders decided to once again show everyone how much people love Donald Trump by reading a suspicious letter allegedly sent this time from a child in Falls Church, Virginia.This letter come from Frank, who is 10 or 11 years old (Sanders could not exactly decide, later amending his age because Frank had a birthday ) and wants to mow the White House lawn for free (which is good because Trump doesn t exactly pay his contractors).Sanders invited Frank to work in the Rose Garden with the groundskeeper for a morning, then did something that is more disgusting if he is actually real than if he is not: she used Frank s letter to support the administration s new racist immigration agenda that will prioritize people who speak English over those who do not: It s our responsibility to keep the American dream alive for kids like Frank, immigrants who are already here and those who dream of immigrating here in the future.
Recently, Sanders read a letter from a child called Pickle that was allegedly mailed unfolded to the White House.Dylan aka Pickle thank you for your letter and hope to meet you soon!
pic.twitter.com/XZlJARZ9cs Sarah Huckabee (@SarahHuckabee) July 26, 2017When the letter failed to prove that Pickle was real, it seems that a casting call for the role was successful complete with a photo of Pickle wearing a suit in front of (as the letter says) a Donald Trump-themed birthday cake.
The photo included no other people.
It is still unclear if Pickle actually wrote the unfolded-yet- mailed letter, but a little boy allegedly named Dylan Harbin will be touring the White House soon.Unlike Pickle s letter, which appears to be a terrible mockup of what an idiot would assume is age-appropriate writing and spelling for a 10-year-old, Frank s is typed (but, as with the last one, it appears to have never been folded).
Though Frank was able to type a letter, he appears incapable of signing his own name:.
@SHSanders45: "It is our duty to keep the American dream alive for kids like Frank."
pic.twitter.com/kaUMlgHn75 The White House (@WhiteHouse) August 2, 2017Let s say Frank and Pickle actually exist and were not in any way manufactured.
We have a President who is attempting to use children to salvage his abysmal reputation and support his hateful agenda.Naturally, people are both skeptical of and sickened by this:It s your duty to keep the dream of child labor alive?
Interesting.
Eric Rosso (@ericopinion) August 2, 2017Lol please see attached flier I admire your business background sounds like a 10 yr old to me ?
Nancy ???
(@rinaldo_nancy) August 2, 2017Propaganda party again?
?Y all are some sick people.
Susan (@susanmitch7) August 2, 2017Is that crossout on the signature where the president started to write Donnie ?
Steven Dupler (@stevendupler) August 2, 2017Authenticity is highly doubted, but nice try Sarah.
Next time how about we talk Russia policy?
J.A.
Meyer (@JenniferMeyer6) August 2, 2017Oh my Gosh .a ten year old can t sign his name.
You really want me to believe this?!
John connolly (@Johnthecon216) August 2, 2017Ya That was totally penned by a 10yo.
Ben Weston (@psiphyr) August 2, 2017Frank is 10 and scribbles like he s 3?!
My granddaughter is 6 and writes in full cursive!
#TrumpLies #WHLies lisa!
Lisa!
LISA!
(@lisapalermo_) August 2, 2017Any kid that sounds that sophisticated in his verbiage would be able to sign his name more skillfully We think youre lying even if youre not Donna Neal (@MizNeal67) August 2, 2017He writes so well but signs his name as if he were 5 years old?
Looks like #FakeNews Flor de Calabaza (@Zucchiniblute) August 2, 2017These bullshit fake ass kid letters are just ridiculous.
Frank just started learning to write.
I doubt he has started business or he exists maatkare (@Maatkare) August 2, 2017Frank must be attending a Betsy DeVos accredited school.
10 years old and he can t sign or spell his own name.
Fake Frank.
Jane Leamy (@parkcityjanie) August 2, 2017Frank can t sign his name at 10 but can write this type of letter?
Lol!
Which WH intern wrote it and signed it with their non-dominant hand?
Cubbybear1714 (@Cubbybear1744) August 2, 2017A 10 year old who signs his name like that wouldn t know how to make a plural into a possessive.
This teacher isn t believing these.
GingeRoots17 (@GingeRoots17) August 2, 2017This was not written by a child.
GTFOH.
I hate how many people will believe this.
10 year olds don t write like that.
America is losing it Josiah Beamish (@josiahbeamish) August 2, 2017Frank is not real.
Johnnto (@johnnto) August 2, 2017If it seems like Trump wouldn t just make this up, keep in mind that he recently got busted hanging a fake Time Magazine cover in his establishments and making up a fake friend named Jim.
Wonder if Trump told Frank what a dump the White House is.
Watch Sanders read this totally not fake letter below:Here's Sarah Huckabee Sanders reading a letter from 10-year-old Frank from Virginia https://t.co/0TCpj3P2xE Meg Wagner (@megwagner) August 2, 2017Featured image via screengrab