Now here s a Hollywood actor who lives in reality While the left is still delusional about the Trump win last November, Bryan Cranston of Breaking Bad just ranted about those who want Trump to fail It s Great!
Breaking Bad actor Bryan Cranston, notably outspoken against then-candidate Donald Trump, recently changed his tone, calling out those who don t support the current president.
President Trump is not the person who I wanted to be in that office, and I ve been very open about that, Cranston said in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter on Monday.
That being said, he is the president.
If he fails, the country is in jeopardy.
It would be egotistical for anyone to say, I hope he fails, Cranston said.
To that person I would say, f k you.
Why would you want that?
So you can be right?
The actor, currently promoting Vietnam War-era movie Last Flag Flying, said he doesn t want Trump to fail.
I don t want him to fail, Cranston argued.
I want him to succeed.
I do.
I honestly do.If Trump fails, then America fails too!
Tax reform and pro-growth should be what all Americans want Right?The actor s comments mark an abrupt change from previous remarks he made about the president before he was elected.
In October 2016, Cranston said he would move to Canada if Trump were elected to office:Fox News reported: Bryan Cranston says he ll leave the United States and move to Canada if Donald Trump is elected president.During an interview Sunday with The Bestseller Experiment podcast, Cranston was asked if he would leave the country and take and extended vacation to Vancouver if Trump defeats Hillary Clinton.
Absolutely.
I would definitely move.
It s not real to me that that would happen.
I hope to God it won t, Cranston said.
It wouldn t be a vacation.
I d be an expatriate.
However, in the interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Cranston said regardless of political affiliations, he ll support anyone with a good idea.
If you ve got a good idea that helps the country, oh man, I m gonna support you, Cranston said.
I don t care if you re a Republican and I m a Democrat or whatever, I don t care.
He added: We ve got to get away from this idea that our country is a political football, and someone with a different opinion is the enemy.
Assume they love this country as much as you do, and there s always room for improvement.
How can we make it better?
WE SAY AMEN TO THAT!Read more: NYP Page Six