The Oregon State Senate has just approved a bill that would increase the state s minimum wage over the next six years in incremental steps.Democrats can be thanked for pushing the measure through on a margin of 16-12, saying that it was necessary to help lift residents out of poverty and handle increasing costs of living.
One lone sellout, Democratic Senator Betsy Johnson, voted no along with all Republicans.
The bill will raise the minimum wage to $14.75 in Portland, $13.50 in other urban counties, and $12.50 in rural counties to prevent harming business in lower cost of living areas.
The current minimum wage in the state is $9.25, which is higher than the federal minimum.
However, it still is inadequate, especially in urban areas.The bill passed after a floor debate that lasted six hours.
It was introduced by Democratic Senator Michael Dembrow, of Portland.
Gradual increases will take place yearly, leading up to the maximum numbers in 2022.
The measure is set to move to the State House next, with expectations of approval by Governor Kate Brown.As usual, wealthy wanna-be plutocrats have come out threatening doom and gloom over the attempt to make sure Oregonians are not living in grinding poverty.
Jason Brandt, CEO of the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association released the following statement: It will kill jobs, harm consumers, force school and government service cuts and hurt Oregon farms and small businesses.
We urge the House to defeat this plan that puts election year politics ahead of Oregon s economy.
Source: oregonlive.comAll that anyone needs to do is refer to Seattle Seatac, who raised its minimum wage to $15/hour.
The results are amazingly good, with an unemployment rate of only 3.3 percent a rate not seen since 2008.
Seatac is also one of the fastest growing airport hubs in the United States, which destroys the myth that a living wage will stifle growth and explode unemployment.One of the most basic concepts of capitalism is lost on literally every Republican who claims to LOVE the system the fact that more money in the hands of consumers equals higher demand which increases the need for employment.
Everywhere a minimum wage goes up, unemployment tends to trend down, and the anecdotal accounts of it weeding out already-failed businesses or spiteful greedy owners can t counter the right-wing propaganda anymore.
It s happening, and the positive results are not going to stop.Featured image from Twitter