Earlier this week, Trump tried to stroke his vanity to maximum advantage by asking Politico for copies of their magazine that feature his face on the cover, because, you know, he s important and everyone must be reminded of that at all possible moments.
Politico is one of many media outlets that Trump has banned from his events, though, and they are understandably unhappy about it.
Nevertheless, they did as Trump bade, but with a stunning reply accompanying the magazines.National editor Kristin Roberts sent him a pointed note with the magazines, which do have an illustration of Trump on the front.
She said: We are happy to provide Mr. Trump and his team with the POLITICO magazines that you requested.We hope Mr. Trump enjoys reading it in his spare time.
In the spirit of open communication, perhaps this would be an appropriate time to ask when you will deliver to our reporters the credentials that we have requested for his many events.
I know they would greatly appreciate it.
Politico just dropped the mic here.
It s almost a shame they couldn t do this onstage or on television, where they could literally drop the mic, because that s the only way this would be more perfect.It s not very clear why Trump banned Politico from his events, but some suspect it has something to do with unfavorable coverage of his former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski.
Trump and his campaign have actually banned several outlets from their events, and individual reporters from many more, because they aren t stroking his ego enough to make it grow.The Politico cover in question could be seen as portraying Trump in a poor light, or as flattering, depending on how one looks at it:A photo posted by Tracie Ching (@tracieching) on Jul 18, 2016 at 8:11am PDTNobody can accuse Politico of pandering to Trump, though, and a quick Google search, Trump + Politico, reveals all the horrible, evil, nasty things they ve said about him.
Trump hasn t tweeted about this, and it doesn t seem he s made a statement about it either, so he can t be too upset yet.Or maybe he s just too busy calling Hillary Crooked Hillary, and accusing her of rigging the debates to care right now.
Still, Politico got him good.Featured image by Gustavo Caballero/Getty Images