Fox News host Eric Bolling had recently been filling in for his colleague Bill O Reilly on The O Reilly Factor, and he was in no way prepared for the chaos that erupted when one of his guests called Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton a bigot.
The discussion began by bringing up Donald Trump s recent comments about Clinton s polices being bigoted and it immediately set off Bolling s guests, who spent the majority of the segment at each other s throats despite Bolling s attempts to restore a calm discussion.Civil rights attorney Leo Terrell had hit the nail right on the head when he commented that Trump had no business calling someone else s policies bigoted.
He said: Eric, Donald Trump doesn t know the definition of the word bigot .
You don t hear Republicans on Capitol Hill supporting Donald Trump s definition of the term bigoted as it applies to Hillary Clinton.
It doesn t make sense, it s inexplicable.
Terrell also defended Clinton, stating that when she d called out Trump s racism in a speech, her argument had been fact-based and that s when conservative Horace Cooper lost it and countered that Clinton s speech had been a litany of lies.
What happened next was insanity.
Cooper, an African American legal commentator, said that the black community would be much better off under racist Trump.
He said, It s good that someone is finally telling the truth!
Somebody needed to stand up and explain that the policies that the left and progressives have been pushing are bigoted because they don t assume there is any possibility for improvement for blacks.
Terrell couldn t believe his ears and told Cooper, You should be ashamed of yourself.
Then he asked Cooper again to answer Bolling s question, Is Hillary Clinton a bigot?
Cooper said, absolutely, and the two men exchanged heated words as Bolling tried to intervene.
Shortly after the men got into a shouting match over Trump s popularity with the racist alt-right and support from the KKK, Terrell repeatedly told Cooper that he should be ashamed for his pro-Trump views.You can watch this chaotic discussion below: Featured image via screen capture