One of the NRA s biggest talking points might have just been debunked, by the Orlando police.
It appears as though the brutal massacre in Orlando might gave actually been more deadly because of the involvement of police.The police allegedly screwed up on two different fronts early Sunday morning, when they took more than three hours to storm the club and some of the casualties may have been from the bullets fired by the first responders.
(Orlando Police Chief, John Mina said) I will say that is all part of the investigation.
But I will say when our SWAT officers, about eight or nine officers, opened fire, their backdrop was a concrete wall.
And they were being fired upon, so that is all part of the investigation.
We had a team of crisis negotiators that talked to the suspect, trying to get as much information as possible, what we could do to help resolve the situation He wasn t asking a whole lot, and we were doing most of the asking, Mina said.But Mateen soon began talking about explosives and bombs, leading Mina to decide about 5am to detonate an explosive on an exterior wall to prevent potentially greater loss of life.The explosives did not penetrate the wall completely, so an armored vehicle was used to punch a two-foot-by-three-foot hole in the wall about two feet from the ground.
We knew there would be an imminent loss of life, Mina said.Source: Daily MailThe intent of this article is not to second guess the Orlando police, not at all.
But, this does completely debunk the NRA s (and Republicans ) good guy with a gun theory.
Inside a crowded nightclub, it s hard to know where bullets are coming from and it s easy to accidentally hurt people you didn t mean to.
This is from trained professionals imagine a bunch of untrained civilians with handguns.Donald Trump and others say that if there were more guns that fateful morning, there would have been fewer casualties.
If you had guns in that room, if you had even if you had a number of people having them strapped to their ankle or strapped to their waist where bullets could have flown in the other direction right at him, you wouldn t have had that tragedy, Trump said.Source: Huffington PostThere actually was a good guy with a gun there, there was an armed security guard, but he wan t able to prevent over 100 casualties.
There s absolutely no chance that an entire club filled with armed patrons wouldn t have ended even worse than the tragic outcome we already had.
The FBI knows this.
In fact, a 2005 study found that people who run and call the police have a much better chance of survival than people who try to stand up to a shooter.
This is a direct contradiction to a study done earlier by the very same person that is often quoted by the NRA.
In other words, good guys with guns can be very dangerous in situations with bad guys with guns.
The Orlando police admit it.
It s time the NRA does too.Featured image of presumed good guy with a gun via Getty Images.