#FeelTheBern of incompetence A survivor of the 2012 Benghazi siege that claimed the lives of four Americans and subject of the movie 13 Hours repudiated Hillary Clinton Thursday night in Connecticut s largest Democratic stronghold.Kris Tanto Paronto, a military contractor and former Army Ranger, said Clinton failed as secretary of state to send in adequate reinforcements when the U.S. mission in Libya was under terrorist attack.Part of the security team that tried to defend the compound, Paronto headlined the annual Lincoln Day fundraising dinner of Bridgeport Republicans, who make up less than 10 percent of the city s electorate.Paronto stopped short of endorsing the GOP s presumptive presidential nominee, Donald Trump, but said he will work with Republicans to shine a light on what happened in the confusion of the attack that killed U.S. ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens on Sept. 11, 2012.
I don t think she has a soul, Paronto said of Clinton during an interview with Hearst Connecticut Media.
I hope it haunts her.
I don t think it will.
A spokesman for Clinton, who campaigned in Bridgeport ahead of her primary victory last month in Connecticut, declined to comment.Paronto said he has no doubt that there is a nexus between the Benghazi attack and the email scandal that has dogged Clinton, who has been criticized for using a personal server to send and receive classified material when she was secretary of state.
He repeated accusations that Clinton misled the victims families over what incited the attack.
She lied to the family members, period, Paronto said.
People are believing her over the family members of teammates that I lost.
Clinton has denied telling the victims families that an anti-Islam video was to blame for sparking the attack.Andy Wainwright, a Republican State Central Committee member from Stamford, said he recently saw 13 Hours and was mesmerized.
It was not a political movie, he said.
There was no finger-pointing.
It highlights the bureaucracy and a lot of times the military being handcuffed.
For entire story: CT Post