Donald Trump is apparently so upset about his inauguration s turnout, and the negative press attention afterward, that he s literally used his power as president to declare it a historic day four days after it happened.Using the power of the executive order, Donald Trump has arrogantly designated January 20, 2017 as the National Day of Patriotic Devotion.
No, this isn t a joke.
This is reality.
And no, this isn t North Korea, this is the United States of America.The order reads (in part):Now, therefore, I Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 20, 2017, as National Day of Patriotic Devotion, in order to strengthen our bonds to each other and to our country and to renew the duties of government to the people.While millions of women march for equality, the White House Press Secretary lies to the American people, and the unavoidable conflicts of interests and Russian secrets sow doubt in American minds, Trump decides to make his special day a national holiday for the people.
This is what American politics has come to.I m young enough to remember when Republicans thought President Obama was arrogant and narcissistic for putting arugula on his hamburger.But Trump wants to proclaim a day all for himself and his glory (after losing the popular vote by 3 million)?
Not a peep from the right.Imagine the outcry from the Republicans and Fox News if President Obama had even referred to his inauguration day as such to say nothing of what they d do if he d ordered it.Remembering that Trump did indeed lose the popular vote by 3 million, it would seem inappropriate to declare his inauguration a national day of devotion.
No one devoted themselves to Trump.
No one devoted themselves to Mike Pence.
And no one devoted themselves to the government.
Want to know why?
The government devotes itself to the people, not vice versa.Trump has turned the office of the presidency into a spectacle showboat of admiration for himself.
Woe to all the pundits and those in the media who promised and hoped for a pivot.
And an even bigger woe to all those who voted for him thinking the same thing.Move over Kim Jong-Un, there s a new Dear Leader amongst us.Featured image by Andrew Harrer via Getty Images