Trump s inability to hire experienced, serious individuals to staff his White House has started to rot from the inside out.
The group of men surrounding Trump on a day-to-day basis are fringe racists, incompetent liars, yes-men, goons, and at least one member of a Nazi alliance organization overseas.
It s less team of rivals and more dysfunctional group culled from the comment section at Breitbart.Worse still, Trump s two closest advisors son-in-law Jared Kushner and former Breitbart owner Steve Bannon reportedly despise each other, fighting non-stop, according to sources within the White House.Unfortunately for the dignity of the office, Trump s decision to hire white nationalist Steve Bannon to be his go-to guy is coming back to haunt him.
Bannon has taken to using two disgusting phrases to refer to Kushner: cuck and globalist.
The word cuck is frequently flung around in fringe right-wing white nationalist circles and originates from cuckhold meant to denote emasculation.
In more modern times, the term is often used by racists to describe a white woman cheating on her white husband with a black man.
Bannon apparently can t stop using it in reference to Kushner.
[Steve] recently vented to us about Jared being a globalist and a cuck He actually said cuck, as in cuckservative, the administration official told The Daily Beast.
Cuckservative, a portmanteau of cuckold and conservative, has become a favorite slur on the right, used like a sexually and racially charged version of RINO, a Republican In Name Only.His other favorite is globalist, a term often used by white nationalists and neo-Nazi groups to mean Jewish.
The term is considered a two-for-one slur within the right-wing community.
Its origins in anti-Semitism is accented by its nativism.
Here s how Daily Beast s Asawin Suebsaeng put it: Globalist is a term typically used by nationalist, pro-Trump right-wingers against political opponents; however, the term has also come under fire for at times carrying anti-Semitic tones.
(Kushner is Jewish.
)The use of globalism as a stand-in for Jewish is well documented and seems to be particularly entrenched in minds of some Trump voters.
Forward magazine did an excellent piece on why that is.For Bannon, Kushner represents interests outside of white America.
Anyone outside Trump s White House probably isn t surprised what that means.
Bannon is a long-time anti-Semite.
According to testimony by his wife, he once vetoed sending his children to a particular school because he thought there were too many Jewish children there.
Working shoulder-to-shoulder with Kushner is apparently too much for Bannon to handle and he s acting out.By the way, Bannon calling Kushner a globalist is reminiscent of when folks call Obama a Muslim.
Just say the word you mean, man.
Jamil Smith (@JamilSmith) April 6, 2017It seems that screaming cuck and globalist isn t winning him any arguments, even within Trump s administration.
He recently got yanked for his position on the National Security Council a spot he had no business occupying in the first place.
In a clear humiliation, Bannon reportedly said he would resign if Trump dared pull him from the council.
Trump called his bluff and Bannon blinked.
But he s likely not forgotten the slight.
Trump s White House is more toxic than ever.Sources have been leaking details non-stop and the picture is ugly.
Pence hates Priebus.
Trump hates Priebus.
Trump hates Spicer.
Spicer hates himself.
Kushner hates Bannon.
Bannon hates Kushner.
Trump s new National Security Advisor hates Trump and everyone else in the White House.
It s a circus.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images