Jeff Sessions just got busted for lying about his ties to Russia during the campaign and Donald Trump was quick to whine about it.When Sessions was being grilled in the Senate during his confirmation hearing, Senator Al Franken asked him directly if he had been in contact with the Russians during the election.
I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians, Sessions said.Sessions statement was made under oath, which means he committed perjury.
Perjury is illegal and that means the United States currently has an Attorney General who broke the law to gain his position.Several lawmakers have demanded that Sessions resign and recuse himself from any investigations into Donald trump s ties to Russia.So far, Sessions has refused to resign, which is rather hypocritical since Michael Flynn lied to Mike Pence and had to resign.
And Flynn was not under oath when he lied.
Sessions WAS under oath.Despite getting caught lying, Trump issued an official White House hissy fit calling the whole scandal a witch hunt against an honest man while also once again bringing up the election results and the leaks.
Jeff Sessions is an honest man, Trump began.
He did not say anything wrong.
He could have stated his response more accurately, but it was clearly not intentional.
This whole narrative is a way of saving face for Democrats losing an election that everyone thought they were supposed to win.
They lost the election and now, they have lost their grip on reality.
The real story is all of the illegal leaks of classified and other information.
It is a total witch hunt!
JUST IN: President Trump releases a statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions, says It is a total witch hunt!
pic.twitter.com/Jogoc25Ggt CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) March 3, 2017But Sessions DID say something wrong when he lied in response to a question he received during his confirmation hearing.
He directly insisted that he did not have any communications with the Russians during the campaign.
But, in fact, he DID meet with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak twice during the election, which means he LIED to Congress.Sessions violated U.S. Code 1621 by committing perjury and is subject to a fine or a maximum five years behind bars.
Congress has a duty to punish Sessions for lying under oath and he should be forced to resign as Attorney General.
The Russia scandal just keeps getting worse for Trump, and it is time for Republicans to appoint a special prosecutor and independent commission to investigate.Featured image via Getty Images