Wow!
This just keeps getting better and better!
This couldn t have happened to a better person Pelosi!
LOL!After disappearing for a couple of weeks, the hacker Guccifer 2.0 returned late this afternoon to provide a new headache for Democrats.In a post to his WordPress blog, the vandal who previously provided nearly 20,000 Democratic National Committee e-mails to Wikileaks uploaded an Excel file that includes the cell phone numbers and private e-mail addresses of nearly every Democratic member of the House of Representatives.The Excel file also includes similar contact information for hundreds of congressional staff members (chiefs of staff, press secretaries, legislative directors, schedulers) and campaign personnel.In announcing the leak of the document, Guccifer 2.0 reported that the spreadsheet was stolen during a hack of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
As you see I wasn t wasting my time!
It was even easier than in the case of the DNC breach, the hacker wrote.Along with the Excel file, Guccifer 2.0 also uploaded documents that included the account names and passwords for an assortment of subscription services used by the DCCC, from Lexis-Nexis to Glenn Beck s web site (password: nutbag).While Guccifer 2.0 claims to be Romanian and an unknown hacker with a laptop, cybersecurity investigators have concluded that he is part of a Russian intelligence operation that has targeted the DNC, Hillary Clinton campaign staffers, and assorted Republicans, including John McCain, Lindsey Graham, and Michele Bachmann.In a message today, the hacker branded the U.S. presidential elections a farce that is being settled behind the scenes as it was with Bernie Sanders.
He added, I wonder what happened to the true democracy, to the equal opportunities, the things we love the United States for.
The big money bags are fighting for power today.
They are lying constantly and don t keep their word.
The MSM are producing tons of propaganda hiding the real stuff behind it.
But I do believe that people have right to know what s going on inside the election process in fact.
Guccifer 2.0 also invited reporters to contact him via Twitter direct message: Dear journalists, you may send me a DM if you re interested in exclusive materials from the DCCC, which I have plenty of.
READ MORE: SMOKING GUN