Why couldn t the parents be notified of his death?
What possible reason could the Obama regime have for keeping his death a secret from his parents?An American and an Italian being held hostage by al Qaeda in a remote region of Pakistan near the Afghan border were killed in a CIA drone strike in January an accident President Obama on Thursday blamed on the fog of war.
Obama grimly admitted the botched operation at the White House and apologized to the families of the two aid workers Warren Weinstein, 73, of Rockville, Md., and Palermo native Giovanni Lo Porto, 39.
I profoundly regret what happened.
On behalf of the United States government, I offer our deepest apologies, Obama said.MEANWHILE, the family of hostage Warren Weinstein (who had already paid $250,000 in ransom money to the al Qaeda captors of the now-slain hostage in 2012), were still negotiating to pay more money for his release months after his death.Here is a heartbreaking video of slain hostage, Warren Weinstein asking for help from a country he came to Pakistan to defend:The Weinstein family shed little light on the secret ransom plot when it was revealed Friday, saying only that they d sought out efforts to rescue him.
His wife had spoken by phone with her husband in a proof of life telephone call prior to the money being handed over, a family spokesman said.
Over the 3 / -year period of Warren s captivity the family made every effort to engage with those holding him or those with the power to find and rescue him, the spokesman said.
Weinstein got along well with his captors, the intermediary said.
He spoke Urdu, the national language of Pakistan, and learned to speak with his kidnappers in another local language, Pashto.
They kept him well and sent a lot of money to keep him alive on medicine for the heart, said the intermediary.
Otherwise, he would have been dead long ago.
Also Friday, White House officials said they were considering setting up a fusion cell, or task force, to better communicate with hostage families and integrate the multiple agencies responsible for the rescue of captives.Via: NY Post