There s absolutely nothing more frustrating than hearing Donald Trump and his band of merry morons repeatedly say we need to Make America Great Again.
Newsflash: it already is great.
However, for the racist base that he s desperately trying to appeal to, who d love to go back to an America filled with discrimination and horrific policy, great is likely synonymous with hate, or even white.
Basically his rhetoric can be summed up with, Make America Able To Hate Again because that s what his minions are voting for, and proof of that hate and racism can be found and any one of his many, many events.Likely tired of seeing and hearing this slogan over and over and over, one person seemed to have just about enough, so they took to their Twitter feed to make it known they re not only over it, but they re going to correct it.
That person?
Hillary Clinton.The Democratic candidate and former Secretary of State, likely alongside her staff, tweeted out during the latest GOP debate, that in all legitimacy was a clusterf*ck, a far better slogan that actually fits with the times and doesn t base itself on hate.She wrote: America never stopped being great.
We just need to make it work for everyone Make America even greater.
America never stopped being great.
We just need to make it work for everyone.
#GOPdebate pic.twitter.com/RiyhfZAAZ1 Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 26, 2016She s exactly right.
The nation never stopped being great.
In fact, over the course of a century we ve seen the barriers holding back women, people of color and the LGBT community start to disappear before our eyes.
And while we have so much further to go, we are better off than we were.
FAR better off, but we just need to make it work for everyone.
A slogan that the former Secretary of State has been pushing forward in regards to not only better treatment of women, people of color and the gay community, but also in regards to economic inequality and the barriers still holding many Americans back.Kudos to the Clinton for destroying Trump s stupid slogan where it stands.
America is already great, but we together can make it greater.Featured imag via YouTube/Instagram/Twitter