Over the last few days, Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump is finally getting a taste of his own medicine by GOP rival Marco Rubio, who finally woke up and realized that the most effective way to deal with a bully like Trump is to mock him relentlessly.It s been documented that many bullies especially those that bully like Trump actually behave that way because of they re deeply insecure.
It seems that Rubio has finally caught onto this fact and is using it to his advantage, but no one can humble and put Trump in his place quite like President Barack Obama.
It s worth bringing back an epic moment from five years ago, when Obama absolutely destroyed Trump with the utmost class at the White House Correspondents Association dinner.The dinner was the day before the scheduled raid on Osama bin Laden s compound, and it was obvious that Obama was on point that night.
Obama not only called Trump, Fox News and their fellow conservatives out on their birther conspiracies and ridiculous obsession with his birth certificate, but made them look like complete imbeciles in front of the entire audience who was loving every second of it.Once Obama singled Trump out exclusively, The Donald practically tried to melt into his seat and he squirmed his way through the entire assault.
When speaking about Trump s credentials and experience in political matters, Obama hilariously brought up Trump s behavior on the reality show Celebrity Apprentice and sarcastically complimented him on his leadership.
Obama teased: Ultimately, you didn t blame Lil John, or Meatloaf.
You fired Gary Busey.
These are the kinds of decisions that would keep me up at night.
Well handled, Sir.
The audience was eating it up, but then Obama delivered the final blow.
Stating that Trump would certainly bring some change to the White House , Obama showed everyone just what a Trump presidency would look like when he unveiled this epic (and probably accurate) image:White House Correspondents dinnerIf you have any doubt about the effectiveness of Obama s brutal delivery, just take a look at Trump s face as the president expertly mocks him:Everyone but Trump was giggling at the ridiculous prospect of Trump for president and yet here we are several years later, when Trump actually has a terrifying chance to become the GOP nominee if Rubio or Cruz can t defeat him.
In all honesty, these two could learn something from Obama he knew just how to show Trump who was boss.Featured image is a screenshot