Donald Trump s destructive vision of America is eliciting strong reaction from millions of people across the country, including political analyst David Gergen.Trump delivered a speech in Cincinnati, Ohio in which he continued to use divisive rhetoric and attacked the media before once again calling on all Americans to bow down and kiss his ass for the good of the nation.During an appearance on CNN on Thursday, Gergen slapped down Trump s disingenuous call for unity and put aside niceties as he eulogized the America that has been a respected world power for decades.
I think if there was any doubt that we re putting an end to one chapter in American history and moving to a new one, he dispelled that tonight.
This is goodbye to American leadership in the world.
Goodbye to globalization.
He s bringing America home.
He s going to lead a nativist, nationalistic, populist movement and if you want to join up with him fine.
If you don t, forget it.
Gergen said he got a very clear impression that Trump is going to ignore foreign policy and leave it to a team of advisers and focus on domestic policy in his pugilistic, narcissistic way without regard for who he hurts.Indeed, Trump s domestic policy could include dismantling Medicare and Social Security, the two most successful and popular government programs in American history.
Trump also intends to attack minimum wage and give bigots the kind of freedom to discriminate against others that they haven t had in a long time.
Even the Voting Rights Act, Civil Rights Act, and women s rights are going to be targeted.
He s in charge, Gergen continued.
And he has a lot of support in the Congress.
That kind of speech will fire up his base, and it s going to leave a lot of other people I knew I didn t like the son of a bitch.
Here s the video via YouTube.
Gergen s remarks are at the three minute mark:Donald Trump s agenda needs to be obstructed at every turn over the next four years.
He has no intention of uniting America or doing what s best for America.
He only cares about what is best for himself and his cronies.
Not a single word that comes out of his mouth is true and if our democracy is to survive, we must resist.
Republicans refused to unite behind President Obama for eight years.
It time for Democrats to show Trump the same courtesy.Featured Image: Screenshot