In response to the Department of Justice s guidelines preventing school officials from demanding that students prove their gender identity to use a restroom, Franklin Graham took to Facebook to whine and call upon Christians to die fighting transgender protections and President Obama.Graham, also known as Billy Graham s demon spawn, posted a lengthy message on his Facebook page on Sunday night asking conservative Christians to take a bullet for their beliefs instead of following the law.
What would you take a bullet for?
Graham asked.
What are the principles and beliefs that you would not compromise under any circumstances?
Even if it meant putting your life on the line?
And of course, that led into a Bible story featuring Christians martyring themselves.King Nebuchadnezzar who reigned over Babylon issued a decree that everyone worship the golden image he had made.
Three men who knew the one true and living God, refused to worship the king s idol their names were Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
The king told them, But if you do not worship, you shall be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.
Here is their bold reply: O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
If that is the case, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and He will deliver us from your hand, O king.
But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up (Daniel 3:16-18).Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stood firm in obedience and faithfulness.
They stood up for God s truth.
They stood up for their faith, and they didn t waiver, even when it meant putting their very lives at risk.And finally, Graham concluded by asking Christians to martyr themselves now.I want to call on every Christian and every pastor to stand firm like these patriarchs of old and not bow to the secular, increasingly godless culture in which we live even when (not if) we re criticized, mocked, and labeled intolerant.
The God of the Old Testament that delivered Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego from their fiery execution is the same God today and He is still more than able to save.
Will you stand against ungodliness?
What are you willing to take a bullet for?Here s the full post via Facebook.This kind of rhetoric sounds awfully familiar, doesn t it?
Oh yeah, it s what Islamic extremists tell their followers right before they strap bombs to their bodies and blow themselves up in the name of Allah.
Except this time, it s an old white male Christian leader saying it to Christians in America, proving once again that fundamentalist Christians are exactly the same as their Islamic counterparts.Featured image YouTube