Donald Trump, knowing that his poll numbers with black voters are abysmal, decided to spend part of his Saturday at a black church, Detroit s Great Faith International Ministries.
However, it could not be more clear that he was in no way wanted there.
Firstly, protesters showed up in throngs to condemn his visit, and then, the Democratic mayor, Mike Duggan, held a press conference slamming Trump s presence in his city.
Duggan said: I feel like I m watching the next season of The Apprentice.'
This is the most phony major party nominee that I ve seen in my lifetime, and that s why we re skeptical.
Trump s visit included a conversation with the church s Bishop, Wayne Jackson, and remarks to the congregation about how he supposedly will help African Americans (or perhaps just his way of saying how much he loves the blacks ).
Duggan, however, saw through the charade, and said of Trump s pandering: Are you here just to use Detroiters as props in a re-imaging campaign, or are you here to have a real conversation where you re finally going to give us the specifics on what you re going to do to make American cities better?
Another local Democratic lawmaker, Rep. Brenda Lawrence, joined Duggan in his condemnation of Trump.
She made a point of reminding everyone of the insulting language Trump uses when speaking of African Americans in his so-called outreach.
Rep. Lawrence said: He said when he sees an African American that I am broke, I am unemployed, I m uneducated, and whenever I walk out my door I m being shot.
What do I have to lose?
I don t want my grandchild to listen to the rhetoric that she, as a woman and as an African-American, is classified and stereotyped as uneducated.
Of course, both Duggan and Lawrence are right.
Trump is absolutely clueless.
This visit, like all of his other events that are done anywhere except in front of all white audience where he s shouting about minorities and dog whistling racists, is nothing more than a photo-op, a way to gain a few votes from the gullible, and most importantly to make sure that suburban white America thinks he is just not racist enough for them to be able to vote for him with a clear conscience.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images