Donald Trump is clearly using the office of the presidency to enrich himself and his family, a clear violation of the Constitution.In January, the retailer Nordstrom informed Ivanka Trump of their decision to drop her product line from their stores.
A boycott of Ivanka s products and any retailer who sells them contributed to the decision.
That s the way the free market works.But after the decision became public earlier this week Trump lost his shit over it on Wednesday.My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom.
She is a great person always pushing me to do the right thing!
Terrible!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017Nordstrom responded by announcing that the decision was made purely for business reasons and that Ivanka was informed last month and understood the choice they made.
Since then, Nordstrom s stock has risen and other retailers have also dropped Ivanka s products.And so, Donald Trump sent Kellyanne Conway on Fox News on Thursday to give free advertising to Ivanka s business.
They are using the most prominent woman in Donald Trump s life, Conway began.
Using her, who has been a champion for empowerment of women in the workplace, to get to him.
I think she s gone from 800 stores to a thousand stores, or a thousand places where you can buy.
You can buy her goods online, she continued before literally telling Fox viewers to go buy her products.
Go buy Ivanka s stuff is what I would tell you.
I hate shopping, I m going to go get some myself today.
This is just wonderful line.
I own some of it.
I fully I m going to give a free commercial here.
Go buy it today, everybody.
You can find it online.
Here s the video via YouTube.Seriously.
Kellyanne Conway actually shilled for Ivanka s products during an interview.
This is not only an unconstitutional conflict of interest, it s completely unfair.
Trump is literally using his platform to advertise his daughter s business, a business she was supposedly going to walk away from because she joined Trump s White House team.
Clearly, she lied just like her daddy did.The fact that Conway appeared on Fox to advertise for the Trumps demonstrates that Donald Trump only sees the presidency as a way to enrich himself and his family.
He doesn t give a damn about the economy or foreign policy or any other problems we face.
He only cares about personal profit and this is proof of his selfishness.Featured Image: Yana Paskova/Getty Images