It s not just white American men who fight and die for this country.
Women, Muslims, and Hispanics have as well and this military veteran wants Donald Trump to know it.During a protest against the Republican nominee in New York, U.S. Army veteran Perry O Brien declared that he proudly put on the uniform and defended the nation against terrorists in Afghanistan alongside women, Muslim, and Hispanic soldiers who also wore the uniform donning the red, white, and blue American flag patch.
When I served in Afghanistan I served with women, I served with Muslims, and I served with Latinos all groups that Donald Trump has maligned or even threatened, O Brien said.
All of those folks actually donned the uniform.
They actually served the country.
As far as we can see as veterans in the military community, Donald Trump only seems interested in serving himself.
Indeed, Donald Trump has never fought for this country.
In fact, he repeatedly dodged the draft during the Vietnam War through a series of deferments.
And even though he was too cowardly to serve his country during wartime, Trump has repeatedly disrespected Vietnam War veterans ever since.In 1997, Trump infamously referred to his sleeping around with various women his personal Vietnam because he didn t get an STD.
I ve been so lucky in terms of that whole world.
It is a dangerous world out there.
It s scary, like Vietnam.
Sort of like the Vietnam-era, Trump said.
It is my personal Vietnam.
I feel like a great and very brave soldier.
And last year, Trump insulted Senator John McCain by questioning his war hero status because he was captured by the enemy and tortured relentlessly to the point where McCain can no longer lift his arms over his head.
He s not a war hero, Trump claimed.
He s a war hero because he was captured.
I like people that weren t captured, OK?
Trump has also repeatedly insulted women, referred to Mexicans as rapists, and called for banning Muslims from the country from the first day of his campaign.So it s no wonder why veterans like Perry O Brien are pissed off about the possibility of Trump becoming commander-in-chief.O Brien even slammed Trump for not donating money to veterans organizations before running for president because it looks like he is only doing it to improve his image right now.
I think we all believe in the veterans community that it would be fantastic if Trump had decided he was interested in donating any of his vast wealth which he loves to talk about so much to veterans organizations in any substantive way before he decided he wanted to be the next commander-in-chief.
Here s the video via YouTube.A Trump presidency also makes it more likely that more American soldiers will come home as wounded vets or in flag-draped caskets since ole small hands himself has suggested the possibility of waging nuclear war along with waging wars against other nations that would definitely require ground troops.Donald Trump is not the presidential candidate our veterans deserve.
They need a president who will do everything possible to avoid war and they need a president who will make sure they and their families are well taken care of if war is necessary.Featured image via screenshot