Julian Assange became a computer hacker in his teen years.
Assange got married when he was 18 and has a son.
He and his wife separated and in 1999, after a protracted court battle, he reached a custody agreement with his wife.Assange gained worldwide fame and became a household name after he released hacked DNC emails shining a light on the ugly and questionable inner workings of Hillary, her campaign and many in the Democratic Party.Assange, who has been living in the embassy for four years after he was granted political asylum by Ecuador, came under fire this week after a 8,000-plus-file dump of CIA secrets was posted on WikiLeaks.Vice President Pence Thursday vowed to go after the web site, saying the leak was one of the most significant compromises of national security in recent memory.
Apparently Baywatch star Pamela Anderson has a thing for the world s most famous leaker, Julian Assange.
Anderson s gone from slow motion runs on the beach to mysterious late night visits to the embassy where WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is holed up.Anderson was most recently spotted entering the Ecuadorian safe space in London Thursday night wearing a camel overcoat, snug black top and either a really short skirt, or no pants at all.Anderson, 49, is a regular at the facility, coyly smiling for photographers as she struts inside to see Assange, 45, whose rogue outfit has dumped some of the US government s most closely guarded secrets.She refused to deny the dating rumors saying he intellectually stimulates her more than all her ex-husbands and lovers combined.
I think he s quite sexy, she wrote in a blog post on Thursday.
He has tremendous strength and stamina though vulnerable.
Hard to imagine him that way as capable as he is.
But, he is up against the biggest super powers in the world.
Speaking to John Bishop on The Nightly Show this week, she described meeting Assange last year through British fashion designer Vivienne Westwood.
We started seeing each other every month, and now we see each other a lot more regularly, she said, according to The Sun.
I do really think he s one of the most important people in the world, and I think what he does is historic.
It s very important, Anderson added.
He s very brave and he sacrificed a lot for all of us.
NYP