The rally Trump held to compete with the National Correspondent s dinner in Washington is off to a predictably ugly start.
At least one protester has already been physically tackled by waiting police officers.
Nazis are mingling with the crowd.
And Trump is raving from the pulpit.
It s the ugliest parts of the 2016 campaign all over again.Trump is currently being sued for his involvement in the assault of a protester during the campaign but that didn t stop him from being similarly aggressive at this rally.
According to reporters on the scene, Trump was yelling get him out of here!
as his supporters and his police detail yanked a protester to the ground.
Politico s Josh Dawsey captured the moment.Cops throw angry protester to the ground.
He's not leaving quietly.
"Get him out of here," Trump says.
pic.twitter.com/kOCKdO89rH Josh Dawsey (@jdawsey1) April 30, 2017Carrying Make America Strong Again signs, Trump supporters hurled insults and lewd gestures at the protester as he was dragged out of the arena.Pennsylvania State Police drag out a Donald Trump protester while a supporter gives him the middle finger @ Harrisburg rally.
pic.twitter.com/DIYodbvy4G Jonathan Lee Riches (@xxxlawsuitxxx) April 30, 2017It s important to remind ourselves that this is not normal.
There used to be a sense of respect for both president and protester.
President Obama once made international headlines when he told a heckler to please be respectful until he was finished talking.
In just 100 days, Trump has torched that tacit agreement.Neo-Nazis were also spotted in the crowd.
They ve been a regular feature of Trump rallies in recent months, including proudly filming themselves give Nazi sieg heil salutes during a Berkeley march.
New York Magazine s Olivia Nuzzi spotted a few of the Trump supporters donning skin head regalia and snapped this photo:Seen at the Trump rally in Harrisburg: pic.twitter.com/dBl3RHKJ73 Olivia Nuzzi (@Olivianuzzi) April 29, 2017Tee Keystone State Council is a known hate group which has stated their mission is to target young people to build a new generation of white supremacists.
They are also linked to several neo-Nazi groups, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.Again, Nazis and white supremacists showing up to openly support a president is not normal.As for Trump, he pretended he was running for president again.
He ranted about making America stronger , bragged about the crowd size and blatantly lied.
Just like old times.Trump says "we have a lot of ppl standing outside" and he "broke the all time record" in this arena.
There are rows of empty seats here pic.twitter.com/ixbErKjrQu Jonathan Tamari (@JonathanTamari) April 30, 2017What does it say about the country that an event like this is happening?
What does it project to the rest of the world?Featured image via Twitter