Donald Trump has definitely gone off the deep end this time.Whenever a terrorist attack has occurred in this country or overseas, the media has been quick to report on it.
From the attacks on 9/11 in New York, to those in Nice and Paris in France and elsewhere, the media has always kept us informed when an attack happens.Donald Trump, however, thinks terrorist attacks are happening every minute of the day and in an effort to scare people and justify his policies, such as his Muslim ban, Trump literally accused the media of covering up terrorist attacks in Europe.
All over Europe it s happening, Trump said during remarks to U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) on Monday.
It s gotten to a point where it s not even being reported.
And in many cases the very, very dishonest press doesn t want to report it.
They have their reasons and you understand that.
Here s the video via Twitter.Trump says terror so bad it s not even being reported.
And in many cases the very, very dishonest press doesn t want to report it.
(1/2) pic.twitter.com/PUAIW9ied1 Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) February 6, 2017This is a complete lie and the American people ought to be totally outraged by the accusation.
In no way has the media ever ignored a terrorist attack in Europe.
As we have personally witnessed over the last few years, the media has provided extensive coverage of attacks that occurred in Paris, Nice, and Brussels in Europe along with attacks that occurred outside of Europe in Beirut and Ankara.Trump s accusation is irresponsible and plain untrue and he is doing it as a way to gain support for his unconstitutional Muslim ban.Earlier in his remarks, Trump once again spewed delusions about the election, bragging about how the numbers prove that everyone likes him even though he lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes to Hillary Clinton.
We had a wonderful election, didn t we?
Trump began.
And I saw those numbers and you like me and I like you.
Here s that video via Twitter.Trump begins CENTCOM remarks by saying: We had a wonderful election, didn t we?
And I saw those numbers and you like me and I like you pic.twitter.com/Xh8Rqfmyal Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) February 6, 2017It s time for the press to start punishing Trump.
Media networks should no longer allow Trump surrogates to appear on television because it is clear that they are not telling the truth and are only there to spread misinformation and propaganda.CNN recently refused to have Kellyanne Conway on their programming because she has zero credibility.
Every single network should follow their lead.The accusation that the press intentionally covers up terrorist attacks is outrageous and should draw a sharp rebuke and condemnation from media networks all over the world.
Donald Trump is literally saying that Europe is plagued by terrorist attacks.
It s the same thing as Kellyanne Conway citing a non-existent terrorist attack in Bowling Green, Kentucky.
Trump and Conway are making shit up to defend the administration s bigoted agenda and they cannot be allowed to get away with it.Read more:Featured image via screenshot