Trump s new UN Ambassador Nikki Haley just held her first press conference following the UN Security Council s monthly meeting on Middle East issues, and this was NO ordinary press conference.
After watching this video, it s easy to see why President Trump chose her to represent the US in hopes of redefining our support for democracy in the Middle East, while identifying nations who support terrorism.
Here s an excerpt of her speech to the press: The Security Council just finished its regular monthly meeting on Middle East issues.
It s the first meeting like that that I ve attended, and I have to say it was a bit strange.
The Security Council is supposed to discuss how to maintain international peace and security.
But in our meeting on the Middle East, the discussion was not about Hezbollah s illegal build up of rockets in Lebanon.
It was not about the money and weapons Iran supplies to terrorists.
It was not about how we defeat ISIS.
It was not about how we hold Bashar Assad accountable for the slaughter of hundreds and thousands of civilians.
No, instead the meeting focused on criticizing Israel, the one true democracy in the Middle East.
I am new around here, but I understand that s how the council has operated month after month for decades.
I am here to say the United States will not turn a blind eye to this anymore.
I am here to underscore the iron-clad support of the United States for Israel.
A star is born is our reaction to the first press briefing by President Trump s new ambassador at the United Nations.
The ex-governor of South Carolina was ridiculed by the Left when the president first sent her nomination up to the Hill, owing to her alleged lack of foreign policy chops.
She certainly rang the wake up gong for that crowd this morning, after emerging from her first Security Council monthly meeting devoted to the Middle East.
Tough as nails but with a smile and a layer of Southern charm.The ambassador had just come from the regular monthly Security Council on Middle East issues.
She said it was her first such meeting, and it was a bit strange.
The Security Council, she said, is supposed to discuss how to maintain international peace and security.
But the meeting, she said, was not about Hezbollah s illegal buildup of rockets in Lebanon, it was not about the money and weapons Iran provides to terrorists, it was not how we defeat ISIS, it was not how we hold Beshar al-Assad accountable for the slaughter of thousands of civilians.
No, she said, instead the meeting focused on criticizing Israel, the one true democracy in the Middle East.
I am new around here, but I understand that s how the Council has operated month after month for decades.
I am here to say the United States will not turn a blind eye to this anymore.
I am here to underscore to the ironclad support of the United States for Israel.
I am here to emphasize that the United States is determined to stand up to the U.N. s anti-Israel bias.
The ambassador made clear that the Trump administration will not support the kind of resolution from which the Obama administration s ambassador Samantha Power shamefully abstained, though Mrs. Haley was too polite to name the humiliated Ms. Power.
The outrageously biased resolutions from the Security Council and the General Assembly only make peace harder to attain by discouraging one of the parties from going to the negotiating table.
Incredibly, Mrs. Haley said, the U.N. department of political affairs has an entire division devoted entirely to Palestinian affairs.
Imagine that.
There is no division devoted to illegal missile launches form North Korea.
There is no division devoted to the world s number one state sponsor of terror, Iran.
The prejudiced approach to Israeli-Palestinian issues does the peace process no favors, and it bears no relationship to the reality of the world around us.
The double standards are breathtaking.
The ambassador warned that it is the U.N. s anti-Israel bias that is long overdue for change, and said America will not hesitate to speak out in defense of its friend in Israel.
All this was going on while the press was questioning President Trump on what he was going to do about anti-Semitism.
If his ambassador to the world body is any example, the answer is plenty.
She has the principles of a Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the grit of a John Bolton, and the star power of a Jeane Kirkpatrick, and in her first press briefing she certainly made her point.
Editorial of The New York Sun