Democrats looking for attention and along with every celebrity who has been able to find their way to the burned out city of Flint, MI have all jumped on the It s all Michigan s Republican Governor Snyder s fault bandwagon.
In reality, there has been plenty of blame to go around.
Obama s EPA Director, Gina McCarthy has plenty of culpability when it comes to the involvement of her EPA officials and the cover up of the Flint water crisis.
In the end however, it s never about the people of Flint, it s about saving the hides of the inept political officials who allowed this crisis to happen.
Flint Lives really don t Matter to greedy politicians like Hillary Clinton, who have used the horrible misfortune of Flint residents to gain trust and votes in the black community.Will anyone remember Hillary s support for black Democrat Mayor Karen Weaver, who is now being accused of STEALING money from charitable donations (that should have been used to support the people who are suffering in the community where she was elected) and putting it into her own campaign fund?The Flint water crisis has triggered yet another lawsuit, this one filed by the city s former administrator, who claims she was wrongfully fired for blowing the whistle on the mayor of Flint for allegedly trying to steer money from a charity for local families into a campaign fund.Former City Administrator Natasha Henderson, 39, who now lives in Muskegon, claims in a lawsuit filed today in U.S. District Court that she was terminated on Feb. 12 for seeking an investigation into allegations of misconduct by Flint Mayor Karen Weaver.Specifically, the suit alleges that Weaver directed a city employee and volunteer to steer donors away from a charity called Safe Water/Safe Homes, and instead give money to the so-called Karenabout Flint fund, which was a political action committee or campaign fund created at Weaver s direction.According to the lawsuit, a city employee told Henderson in confidence that she and a volunteer had previously been directing donors to the City of Flint s website, where they could give money to the Safe Water/Safe Homes charity, which helped families affected by the water crisis.
But Weaver directed them to steer donors to the Karenabout Flint website, which the city council had not approved, the suit claims.
A red flag went off when it was an unrecognizable fund, Henderson s lawyer, Katherine Smith Kennedy, told the Free Press.
She did the right thing.
She reported the matter to the city attorney.
And for doing the right thing, she was punished.
She was fired.
The lawsuit names the City of Flint and Weaver as defendants.For entire story: Detroit Free Press