A prominent conservative Christian is calling for women to be prohibited from having any leadership roles in our society whatsoever.American Family Association radio host Bryan Fischer bellowed about the probability that a woman will be the leader of the United States during his show on Friday.As usual, Fischer claimed that God specifically reserves leadership roles for men only, even in the home and used the Bible as proof.
That s always the pattern in the word of God.
The kings were all males, when you had a departure from that with Jezebel and Athaliah, it was not a good thing, it did not work out well.
Leadership in the church is reserved for men, leadership in the home is reserved for men.
In other words, in God s economy, he has designed leadership and authority in society and in the church and in the home to be exercised by men.I think you could make a good case that leadership in culture, society, politically as well as in the home, that that is something in God s economy that s reserved for men.
What if somebody had the courage to go on national TV, somebody of some kind of prominence or visibility, and said, Look, I m going to vote for Trump because he s a man.
I don t believe that women should be entrusted with high political office That s the position I happen to take.
Here s the video via Right Wing Watch:Of course, Fischer merely cherry-picked two examples of female leadership in the Bible while blatantly ignoring all the other examples of female leadership.What follows is a list of female leaders in the Bible as put together by religioustolerance.org:Exodus 15:24: Miriam, the daughter of Aaron was a prophet and one of the triad of leaders of Israel during the Exodus from Egypt.Judges 4 & 5: Deborah, a prophet-judge, headed the army of ancient Israel.2 Kings 22:14; 2 Chronicles 34:22 Huldah, a prophet, verified the authenticity of the Book of the Law of the Lord given through Moses the Book of Deuteronomy.
She triggered a religious renewal.Acts 21:8: Philip the evangelist had four unmarried daughters who were prophets.Romans 16:1: Paul refers to Phoebe as a minister or deacon of the church at Cenchrea.The Gospel of Philip, was widely used among early Christian congregations.
It portrayed Mary Magdalene as the companion of Jesus, in a position of very high authority within the early Christian movement.The Gospel of Mary described Mary Magdalene as a leader of Jesus disciples.
She delivering a passionate sermon to the disciples after his resurrection.
This raised their spirits and inspired them to start evangelizing the known world.In short, Fischer apparently has never actually read the Bible.
It s either that or he only reads the parts he agrees with.And he is not the only conservative Christian who wants to place women under the boot heel of men.The Christian right-wing s favorite fake historian David Barton called for stripping women of the right to vote two years ago.
And a more recent example would be conservative Christian pastor Steven Anderson who called for women to not only be banned from voting but also called for confining them solely to the home.Opinions like these are the reason why women need to band together and put a woman in the White House this November.
Conservatives need to be put in their place for their extremist views and that place is definitely not in a position of leadership, but in the fringes where they can never hurt anyone again.Featured Image: Screenshot