Sebastian Gorka does a mic drop on CNN anchor Alison Camerota when he tells her more people watch Nick at Nite and cartoons than they watch CNN:WATCH AND LAUGH: Sebastian Gorka tells CNN that more people watch Nick-at-Nite and cartoons then them.
#Trump #CNNBlackmail pic.twitter.com/uwEKMoCqrR Tim Young (@TimRunsHisMouth) July 12, 2017Sebastian Gorka, President Trump s deputy assistant, mocked CNN s ratings on its morning program New Day on Tuesday, stating in a contentious interview with co-anchor Alisyn Camerota that more people watch Nick at Nite cartoons than CNN today.
This interview between Gorka and Camerota went from cordial to personal really quickly!
Alison Camerota asked about Iraqi forces defeating ISIS to win back the city of Mosul.
But Camerota couldn t help herself so she pivoted to the Trump-Russia fake news topic:Camerota goes partisan: Is it possible that your team is obsessed with the Clintons?
Gorka starts to get into with Camerota: No.
We d like you to actually do your job.
You aren t in the news business anymore.
You used to be.
You are in the attacking President Trump business.
And it s sad.
It s really sad.
Camerota: It s interesting.
Look, I know you have to go, and I didn t even want to go down this rabbit hole with you.
When you take shots at us and at journalism, at CNN, Gorka interrupted with this zinger: Not journalism.
CNN.
Camerota said Gorka was the one who asked to appear on the network.Camerota responded: OK.
When you take shots at CNN, I do feel that I must respond and just point out that you called us yesterday to come on here.
Gorka shot back: That s what we do.
The amount of time you spend in desperation on a topic that has plummeted you to 13th place in viewership ranking across America, more people watch Nick at Nite cartoons than CNN today.
Camerota shot back: Our ratings are doing just fine.
If you want to go there, our ratings are doing just fine.
Gorka s mic drop moment came here: Nick at Nite is in 11th place.
More people are interested in cartoons!