The New York Times and all other news outlets are reporting with glee that Donald Trump s campaign manager was fired.
The truth is that Corey Lewandowski had never run a national campaign before now so it s time to bring in experienced campaign workers to get the job done.
This is not to say that Lewandowski was the perfect campaign manager he wasn t. The New York Times brings up dirt on Corey but it s more likely that Trump was concerned he wasn t getting the job done soooo .YOU RE FIRED!FYI: REAGAN FIRED HIS CAMPAIGN MANAGER TOO!Donald J. Trump has fired his contentious campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, a move that comes as the presumptive Republican nominee faces challenges as he heads into the general election.Mr.
Lewandowski could not immediately be reached for comment about his departure, which was announced by the campaign.
The Donald J. Trump Campaign for President, which has set a historic record in the Republican primary having received almost 14 million votes, has today announced that Corey Lewandowski will no longer be working with the campaign, the campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said in a statement: The campaign is grateful to Corey for his hard work and dedication and we wish him the best in the future.
Mr. Trump had faced increasing concerns from allies and donors, as well as his children, about the next phase of the campaign as he pivots toward the November election.Two people briefed on the move, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Mr. Lewandowski was fired.The campaign manager was seen as having a hostile relationship with many members of the national press corps who cover Mr. Trump, and many officials at the Republican National Committee had strained relationships with him.And Mr. Lewandowski was often at odds with Mr. Trump s chief strategist, Paul Manafort, who was brought on in March when the candidate seemed poised for a lengthy fight over delegates.Mr.
Lewandowski was said to have resisted certain moves that would have increased the staff, at times blocking Mr. Manafort from making hires or later undoing them.But the people briefed on Mr. Lewandowski s departure said that the circumstances went well beyond any particular incident or any particular relationship.One person stressed that the move had been in the works for many weeks, particularly since it became clear that Mr. Trump would be the nominee.
The person added said that the campaign is now focusing on bringing the party together, including hiring new staff members and adjusting to the race against Hillary Clinton.
And there had been a desire for many weeks to make changes ahead of the Republican National Convention, July 18-21 in Cleveland.No one inside the campaign was given any advance warning about the dismissal of Mr. Lewandowski, who was on the campaign s daily 8:30 a.m. conference call on Monday, according to a person briefed on the developments.Read more: NYT