Few people, if any, keep track of ratings or public approval numbers for the Smithsonian.
However, if they did, those numbers would soon go down dramatically.
Why?
Because the man who single-handedly accomplished the nearly impossible feat of turning America against its favorite game, is about to get his own exhibit.Most fans were not impressed with Kaepernick s disrespect of our American flag and of our national anthem.
According to curators at the museum, currently unemployed NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick is about to get his own display at the Smithsonian s National Museum of African American History and Culture on the National Mall.In fact, museum officials have already begun requesting various items of significance from Kaepernick s protests of last year.According to the Washington Examiner, Artifacts from former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick s national anthem protests will reportedly soon be on display at the Black Lives Matter collection at the Smithsonian s National Museum of African American History.
The National Museum of African American History and Culture has nearly 40,000 items in our collection, said Damion Thomas, the museum s sports curator, to USA Today.
The Colin Kaepernick collection is in line with the museum s larger collecting efforts to document the varied areas of society that have been impacted by the Black Lives Matter movement.
Incredibly, as pointed out by IJR and The Washington Times, the museum extends Kaepernick this honor while only mentioning African-American Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, in connection with the sexual harassment charge brought against him by Anita Hill.
BrietbartI was opposed to welfare because I had seen its destructive effects up close in Savannah.
Most of the older people among whom I had grown up felt as I did, sharing Daddy s belief that it would be the ruination of blacks, undermining their desire to wor & provide for themselves.
I added that my own sister was a victim of the system, which had created a sense of entitlement that had trapped her and her children.
I went on to say that I opposed busing, preferring to give school vouchers to poor children.
Source: My Grandfather s Son: A Memoir by Clarence Thomas, p. 132-3 , Oct 1, 2007Quotes like the one above from Clarence Thomas have made him a target of the left.
It really doesn t matter what color you are, if you don t tow the entitlement line that keeps you in the good graces of the Democrat Party, you will be punished.
In Clarence Thomas case, the punishment is that he will likely never see himself featured in the Smithsonian Black History museum.Here is a short biography of Clarence Thomas, that illustrates the unimaginable odds he overcame to become a US Supreme Court Justice:Clarence Thomas was born in the tiny coastal town of Pin Point, Georgia, on June 23, 1948.
As a very young boy he lived in a one-room shack with dirt floors and no plumbing.
When Thomas was two years old, his father walked out on the family.
As a result, at the age of seven he and his younger brother were sent to live with their grandfather, Myers Anderson, and his wife in Savannah, Georgia.
Anderson, a devout Catholic and active member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), sent Thomas to a Catholic school staffed by nuns.In remarks reported by Jet magazine, Thomas has said that he grew up speaking Gullah, a creole dialect spoken by African Americans on the coastal islands of the southeastern United States.
Unlike other Supreme Court justices, he rarely asks questions from the bench during court proceedings.
He has said that he developed this habit of silent listening when he was young because he found it a struggle to speak standard English correctly in school.
Nevertheless, he was always a strong student.Clarence Thomas went on to become a US Supreme Court Justice and champion of our Constitution.Apparently, the Smithsonian can t find space in their museum for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, a highly accomplished conservative black man, who was born into poverty, and through sheer determination and hard work, became the longest serving black Supreme Court Justice in America s history.