In 2013, conservatives used their 5-4 majority of the Supreme Court to kill a key part of the Voting Rights Act.
Now Republicans are aiming at the Civil Rights Act to bring back segregation.During an interview on CNN with Jake Tapper, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory actually argued that Congress should revisit the Civil Right Act of 1964 to make segregation legal again so that the state can make accommodations for transgender people.
I think we ought to make special circumstances for those individuals, McCrory said when asked how we should treat transgender kids.
He suggested that the federal government is preventing the creation of unisex bathrooms and that we should segregate by forcing transgender kids to use those bathrooms.Of course, many businesses have already added unisex bathrooms without a problem so McCrory seems to pretending that the federal government is blocking him.He whined about the Justice Department taking issue with North Carolina s HB2 law, which allows business owners to discriminate against LGBT customers and employees under the guise of religious liberty.
And he blamed the left for the discriminatory laws Republicans have been passing across the country.
I think that this was an argument that we didn t need to have, McCrory said.
But this is an agenda by the far left.
And for some reason, the national media is saying the far right brought this up.
I had no interest in this subject.
But the Justice Department is basically making a civil rights claim that every private sector employer in the U.S. and every university in the United States must have gender expression or gender identity bathroom choices for individuals.
17 states and over 200 cities have simply passed laws or ordinances protecting transgender people allowing them to use the bathroom that corresponds with their gender identity free from discrimination.It s the Republicans who made this a problem by passing laws overriding local ordinances and legalizing bigotry against LGBT people.However, McCrory would like the Republican-controlled Congress to go another step further and gut the Civil Rights Act of 1964 so that segregation can once again be legal in the United States.
I think there s a time where the Republicans and the Democrats in this Congress need to revisit the 1964 Civil Rights Act, and revisit all this issue.
Because these are complex issues and North Carolina for whatever reason politically has become the target by the left on this agenda.
Here s the video via YouTube.If McCrory had his way, we would not only see transgender people get segregated from from the rest of the population, we would see many southern states segregate black people as well.
We would once again have bathrooms for whites and blacks, separate water fountains, separate schools, and businesses could signs outside that say whites only.
Basically, McCrory made the Justice Department s case by admitting that he wants to segregate transgender people into separate but equal bathrooms, which is going to be pretty difficult to enforce unless you put a perverted cop in every public bathroom.
Segregation has been illegal since 1954 for a reason.
It goes against our constitutional values and divides Americans when we should be united.The very fact that McCrory even suggested killing a key part of the Civil Rights Act should make it clear to every American that Republicans are just itching to attack the landmark legislation to take the country backward.
And if voters allow a President Trump along with a Republican majority in Congress, McCrory could very well get his wish.Featured image via video screen capture