The situation with the Bundy ranchers and their heavily armed right-wing militia s occupation of a federal building on a wildlife reserve in Oregon is escalating.
The federal government is planning to take steps to end their ridiculous occupation, but at least one of them has said he ll lay down his very life before he allows the authorities to arrest him.The Harvey County Sheriff said of the handling of the militant takeover: There are things being done.
It s not visible to the public.
Authorities are reportedly taking steps to stop power service to the occupied federal building, as well as working with the FBI and other federal government authorities to have the militia members removed.
Of course, the idiots calling themselves the Oath Keepers, had to comment.
They told families to relocate their children: This is not a family event.
The only people there should be the armed men who are willing to die there with Ammon Bundy and his brothers and a couple of embedded reporters.
One of the militiamen spoke with MSNBC about his intentions for when the government closes in on their occupation.
LaVoy Finicum, 55, says he knows that agents are coming for him and others occupying the building.
However, he seems to believe he ll die first.
He said to MSNBC: I have been raised in the country all my life.
I love dearly to feel the wind on my face.
To see the sun rise, to see the moon.
I have no intention of spending any of my days in a concrete box.
Well, sir, if you weren t breaking the law, you wouldn t have reason to fear spending time in prison.
These idiots need to be arrested.
They are nothing more than real life, bona fide terrorists.This guy is so dumb that he sincerely believes that the authorities won t find him because he is hiding under a huge blue tarp in the middle of a vacant parking lot with his penis extension gun.
I ve got news for you, Mr. Finicum: They ll find you, and they ll arrest you.
If you threaten them or put up a fight, they ll kill you.Take my advice: go home to your farm and your kids before any of that happens.Watch Finicum s statements below, via MSNBC:Featured image via screen capture from Raw Story