Republicans have officially sunk so low this election they couldn t possibly go deeper or so you d think.
Last night s vice presidential debate showed two men, one an honorable senator and the other a lap-dog governor, go at each other over policy and personal barbs.
Republicans criticized Tim Kaine for interrupting too much (but were silent when Trump did the same thing to Hillary Clinton), and Donald Trump felt it necessary to, on Twitter of course, mock Kaine s personal appearance.
Kellyanne Conway who refuses to acknowledge Trump s record deficit with female voters suggested Kaine was sexist.But perhaps the most deplorable of all insults hurdled at Tim Kaine s way comes from World Net Daily writer Jerome Corsi, PhD.
Corsi who exposed President Obama s former life as a gay drug dealer took to Twitter to denounce Kaine s pin, which is recognized by the Department of Defense for families with those serving in the military.
Corsi referred to the sacred pin as Ho Chi Minh, Viet Cong, and Leftist secret squirrel stuff.
Corsi also accused Kaine of not respecting the military because the pin, he felt, was too narrow and didn t do enough to honor all those who have served including those who have died waiting to receive care from the VA.Corsi deleted several tweets in response to other users, but luckily we got screenshots saved of the monstrosity:For a party that claims to support the military, the troops, military families, and veterans, they certainly have a hard time showing it.
Corsi, along with the North Carolina GOP (which also mocked Kaine s pin as being communist sympathizing) shows how utterly heartless, foul and downright dirty the GOP can be.
By all means, object to Kaine s policy ideas.
Object to his running mate, Hillary Clinton.
But the minute one trashes his son, and their Blue Star status, will be the minute of regret.So far, World Net Daily, Corsi s employer, has not denounced the comments, nor has any prominent member of the Republican Party.
Yet Corsi still has a platform to spew his hate and mismanagement of the truth.Republicans, this election, have mocked Blue Star families, Gold Star families, war heroes, veterans with PTSD, our military, and so forth.
Where will it end?
When will Republicans stand up and denounce this outrageous, offensive, un-American hate that consumes their party?Featured image via Salon