Donald Trump is the Republican Party s presumptive presidential nominee for the 2016 election.
However, there is a growing faction of the party that is not at all happy about this.
Trump has been a public relations nightmare since the day he started running, and he is showing no signs of stopping that trend.
Further, anyone with a brain can see that he is dangerously unqualified to hold the office of the presidency.
However, that has not stopped major GOP players from lining up behind Trump like the spineless, party-before-country morons that they are.
The #NeverTrump faction of the party sees this as the massive problem that it is, though, and they have decided to openly revolt in an effort to deny Trump the nomination at the GOP convention in Cleveland.This newly formed group of #NeverTrump delegates has rebranded themselves.
They are now known as Free the Delegates.
The name comes from the idea that delegates bound to Donald Trump should be free to vote their conscience at the convention rather than being forced to vote for the presumptive nominee.
They held a conference call Sunday night, with a reported more than 1,000 Republican delegates nationwide participating in the brainstorming efforts to stop Trump from formally taking their party s nomination.However, there is a problem.
The party elite at the state and national level are not going to easily allow these country-before-party Republicans to rise up against Trump.
Delegates from the #NeverTrump faction say that they are facing intimidation from party leaders who are insisting that they are all, as a party, obligated to support Trump.
A delegate from North Carolina says that she and other N.C. delegates are very much under direct threat from our state with a $10,000 fine if they refuse to vote for Trump.
She also alleges that she was threatened via social media over her #NeverTrump position.
The same delegate says that in Arizona, in order to participate in the convention, delegates actually have to sign a pledge that they will, unequivocally, vote pro-Trump.Despite the intimidation and threats, though, those on the nationwide Sunday night call say that they want those who are uneasy about Trump to do the right thing, not the easy thing.
#NeverTrump Colorado delegate Regina Thompson said to those who support their cause: We want you to be proud to tell your children and grandchildren that the person we have nominated and are ready to elect as president is a moral person who will take seriously the oath of office.
Will you be able to tell them that you were not afraid of public opinion or party leaders?
Luckily, the #NeverTrump delegates already have an outside PAC, called Courageous Conservatives, that is going to be collecting funds to help with legal fees due to the inevitable blowback those looking to oust Trump will face.
Spokesman Steve Lonegan says to the delegates that it will help to provide you support should you be threatened on the state level with some form of retribution.
Kendal Unrah of Colorado is on the RNC Rules Committee and firmly #NeverTrump.
She says of the planned ousting: It s just kind of an easy sell.
And I don t think that there s going to be enough organized resistance on the other side to defeat it.
Unruh does acknowledge how difficult it will be to get rid of Trump, but she is also optimistic: I m just very glad that we ve just all come together so quickly, because we have a monumental task to actually accomplish.
But I will tell you the momentum that I have seen within the last week it is just astonishing how fast this has come together, she said.
We re going to be hitting our peak right at convention time.
Good luck, #NeverTrump delegates.
You re the only remotely moral GOPers left in your party.Either way, this GOP civil war should be massively fun to watch for Democrats.Here is a video detailing the newly revived #NeverTrump effort, via NBC News:Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images