Let s hope this angry leftist mayor doesn t prevent individual donors from contributing to help the people of San Juan who may not agree with her hateful attacks on our President, who is bending over backward to get the help to the victims of the hurricane.Is anyone else sick and tired of hearing this mayor whine about everything America is NOT doing for her?
San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz, who has refused to participate in any FEMA meetings regarding aid to Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, has continually accused the Trump administration of not helping out in Puerto Rico s time of need, going so far as to claim the federal government is killing Puerto Ricans.Fox News Geraldo Rivera went down to Puerto Rico and actually confronted Cruz about her statement that people are dying because of the Trump administration s inefficiency and bureaucracy.
But are people dying?
I ve been traveling around, I don t see people dying, Rivera challenging Cruz said.
I spoke to the doctors, they say they saw 53 patients and they had a person who was septic, but nobody dying.
Dying is a continuum, Cruz said in response.
If you don t get fed for seven, eight days and you re a child, you are dying.
If you have 11 people like we took out of a nursing home, severely dehydrated, you are dying.
Of course dying is a continuum.
Everyone eventually dies.
It s an unfortunate part of life.
But, when it comes to Puerto Ricans dying from neglect and a lack of supplies, Rivera wasn t buying it.
The death count was 16 a week ago.
It remains 16 today, Rivera said.
People are not dying.
Here s the video of Rivera s interview with Cruz:Backing up Rivera s claims, an article released on Sunday by the Daily Mail said that a Puerto Rican woman claiming to be a police officer alleged that Cruz and Puerto Rican Governor Ricardo Rossello have been holding back supplies in order to make for better photo opportunities.
The woman even went so far as to say that U.S. armed forces need to come in and distribute the aid.
Via: MRCTV