Rep. Trey Gowdy SC: This conflict of interest-free senior agent of the FBI can t think of a single solitary American who would vote for Donald Trump .
@TGowdySC: "This 'conflict of interest-free' senior agent of the FBI can't think of a single solitary American who would vote for @realDonaldTrump."
pic.twitter.com/BSLBtPG4Qi Fox News (@FoxNews) December 13, 2017Trey Gowdy calls out the Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein who can t seem to make eye contact with Gowdy during the entire rant that goes through the corruption of both the FBI and DOJ.The fact is that the corruption and weaponization of the intel agencies has never been so bad.
You can thank Obama and his minions for this.
The American people deserve better from their government.
This is Banana Republic Stuff.
If you haven t heard yet, over 10,000 texts from former Mueller team members were released last night that could shut the door on this entire Mueller sham investigation: p class= speakable >Fox News just revealed what we knew but it s out in the open now: Text messages between FBI officials Peter Strzok and mistress Lisa Page in 2016 referred to then-candidate Donald Trump as a loathsome human and an idiot.
HOW CAN THEY EVEN BEGIN TO BE NEUTRAL IN THIS SHAM OF AN INVESTIGATION?More than 10,000 texts between Strzok and Page were being reviewed by the Justice Department after Strzok was removed from Special Counsel Robert Mueller s Russia probe after it was revealed that some of them contained anti-Trump content.The bulk of the messages obtained by Fox News were sent on March 4 of last year, as Trump held a sizable lead in the GOP primary race.
God, Trump is a loathsome human, Page texted Strzok on that date.
Yet he many[sic] win, Strzok responded.
Good for Hillary.
Later the same day, Strzok texted Page, Omg Trump s an idiot.
He s awful, Page answered.
America will get what the voting public deserves, said Strzok, to which Page responded.
That s what I m afraid of.
WHY REASSIGNED AND NOT FIRED?Strzok, who was an FBI counterintelligence agent, was reassigned to the FBI s human resources division after the discovery of the exchanges with Page, with whom he was having an affair.
Page was briefly on Mueller s team, but since has returned to the FBI.The messages disclosed were sent during the 2016 campaign and contain multiple discussions about various candidates BUT THE MOST DAMAGING ARE THE RIPS ON TRUMP.