So far, forty-four states are resisting the Trump administration s request for voter data.
Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, vice chairman of the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, sent a letter to all 50 states to request voter information which he said would eventually be made available to the public, and even he cannot comply with his own request.Trump is trying to prove that he won the popular vote (he did not win the popular vote) and to prove that, he has claimed without any evidence whatsoever that millions had voted illegally in the 2016 presidential election.Last week, the alleged president who has failed to release his tax returns, tweeted, Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL.
What are they trying to hide?
Welp, Maryland s deputy Secretary of State just resigned from the Trump s bogus panel.The Baltimore Sun reports:Deputy Secretary of State Luis E. Borunda, a former Baltimore County school board member, informed the Hogan administration Monday that he resigned from Trump s Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, according to Hogan spokesman Doug Mayer.On top of that, Maryland elections officials on Monday joined in with the other 43 states and rejected the Trump administration s request for personal information about the state s voters.Linda H. Lamone, Maryland s elections administrator, rejected the request for information after receiving an opinion from Attorney General Brian E. Frosh, who called President Donald J. Trump s investigation repugnant.
The assistant attorneys general representing the State Board of Elections have considered the request to the Board for the personal information of millions of voters and have determined that the requested disclosure is prohibited by law, Frosh said.
I find this request for the personal information of millions of Marylanders repugnant; it appears designed only to intimidate voters and to indulge President Trump s fantasy that he won the popular vote.
Frosh took to his Twitter account and blasted the Trump administration s request again.
The assistant attorneys general representing SBE have considered the request and have determined the disclosure is prohibited by law, Frosh tweeted.The assistant attorneys general representing SBE have considered the request and have determined the disclosure is prohibited by law.
Brian Frosh (@BrianFrosh) July 3, 2017 I find this request repugnant; appears designed only 2 intimidate voters and 2 indulge the President s fantasy that he won the popular vote, he wrote.I find this request repugnant; appears designed only 2 intimidate voters and 2 indulge the President's fantasy that he won the popular vote.
Brian Frosh (@BrianFrosh) July 3, 2017 Repeating a false story of expansive voter fraud, and then creating a commission to fuel that narrative, does not make it any more true, he continued.Repeating a false story of expansive voter fraud, and then creating a commission to fuel that narrative, does not make it any more true.
Brian Frosh (@BrianFrosh) July 3, 2017Frosh is not going to allow Trump to dox his constituents.I urge Gov.
Hogan and SBE to speak out against this effort and to reject attempts to intimidate voters & obtain their personal information.
Brian Frosh (@BrianFrosh) July 3, 2017Trump still hasn t gotten over the fact that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote and that s kind of sad for a guy who promised his supporters if he s elected, they will get bored with winning.
Trump has been in office for 165 days and the Trump train is crashing.Happy birthday, America!Featured image via Isaac Brekken/Getty Images