In mid-August just last year, Paul Manafort resigned from the Trump campaign after revelations that he was involved in protests organized by the pro-Russian Party of Regions against US Marines deployed to that country for a training exercise in 2006.
According to a ledger reviewed by Ukraine s national Anti-Corruption Bureau, Manafort s name appeared in receipt of more than $12.7 million in cash payments over five years from disgraced Ukranian President Viktor Yanukovych.
And that is just the short list of Manafort s transgressions.An investigation has just been requested by a Ukranian human rights lawyer over what appears to be text messages between Manfort s daughters.
In those messages, the daughters suggest that their father had a hand in the bloody mass killings carried out by Ukraine security forces in 2014, the Daily News reports.Speaking of leaks: Last month, an anonymous hacker website published roughly 300,000 text messages that were supposedly sent between Manafort s daughters, Andrea and Jessica, and the accusations in the apparent conversations are harsh.
You know he has killed people in Ukraine?
Knowingly, Andrea Manafort appears to have written to her sister via text in March 2015.
That was in reference to their Trump-connected father s alleged role in the February 2014 police shootings in Kiev that killed over 100 pro-Western protesters in the weeks leading up to Yanukovych s escape from his country.Andrea Manafort reportedly wrote in another text to her sister that their father was behind the strategy that Yanukovych implemented in order to have his security forces kill dozens of protesters in Kiev s Independence Square.
Do you know whose strategy that was to cause that, to send those people out and get them slaughtered, Andrea Manafort allegedly wrote to her sister, referring to their father.
He has no moral or legal compass, she added.Manafort has long and deep ties to pro-Russian politicians in Ukraine.
Yanukovych is closely connected to Russian leader Vladimir Putin.
After he was ousted in 2014, he has been hiding in Russia after fleeing from his home country where he remains wanted on charges of high treason.According to experts, Manafort was invited in an unofficial capacity to consult on Yanukovych s first presidential campaign in December 2004, in the days of the Orange Revolution in Ukraine.
During the presidential campaign, Manafort said he s known Trump for 30 years.I m sure Thanksgiving dinner this year will be fun at the Manafort home.Image via screen capture