Ted Cruz just got his ass handed to him by a Fox News host on national television for whining about hard questions.During an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Chris Wallace grilled the Texas Senator over the dirty tricks his campaign has perpetrated since the Iowa Primary in apparently desperate attempts to smear candidates and steak votes from them.
Your campaign has been involved in a series of incidents that people are calling dirty tricks.
In Iowa, the Cruz campaign sent out tweets saying Ben Carson was suspending his campaign.
That was false.
The campaign put out fliers accusing people of voting violations, that was false.
In South Carolina, a Cruz super PAC attacked Trump over the Confederate flag.
And your then-communications director posted a link this week accusing Rubio of disrespecting the Bible.
That was false.
Do you take personal responsibility this was your campaign except for the super PAC do you take personal responsibility for this series of incidents?
And what does it say about the culture of the campaign you are running?
Cruz not only failed to take personal responsibility for his campaign s actions, he called Wallace a liar and accused him of being a Donald Trump pawn.
Every accusation you raised there is incorrect, Cruz replied.
I appreciate your reading the Donald Trump attack file on that.
And that did NOT sit well with Wallace at all, and he proceeded to take Cruz to the woodshed for it.WALLACE: Oh, come on, sir.
Wait a minute, sir.
You personally apologized to Ben Carson on a debate stage.
CRUZ: Chris, don t interrupt me.
WALLACE: You fired your communications director.
CRUZ: Chris, don t interrupt me.
WALLACE: Don t say this in an oppo file on our part, sir.
CRUZ: Chris, please don t interrupt me.
WALLACE: Please don t accuse me of something I didn t do.
CRUZ: Let me know when I m allowed to answer.
WALLACE: Well, don t accuse me of doing something I didn t do.
Two of those things, you apologized for one and you fired your communications director.
Don t say this is the oppo file.
After his ass-whooping by Wallace, Cruz went on to unbelievably claim that his campaign is running at the highest level of integrity, completely unfazed by the facts presented by Wallace to his face.Here s the video via YouTube.This is the perfect example of Ted Cruz saying and doing anything to be president.
Rather than explain himself and accept personal responsibility, Cruz flat out lied to Wallace and pretended his campaign has never done anything wrong.
And then he complained about the line of questioning and claimed they were part of a Donald Trump-approved attack line.Ted Cruz definitely could have handled this better, but now all he has is egg on his face.Featured image via video screen capture