Donald Trump s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, was grilled by Fox News Chris Wallace over Trump s dismal polling numbers with women and Hispanic people.Trump, being the giant blowhard that he is, recently insulted the Republican governor of New Mexico, who happens to be a Hispanic woman.
Not the best move to make if your goal is to take the White House in November.During the interview, Wallace asks Lewandowski about the matter: Corey, why on earth would the now Republican nominee since he s clinched the nomination, why would he call out the popular governor of a swing state like New Mexico who just happens to be the head of the Republicans Governor Association?
Lewandowski evades the question, giving Wallace a stock Trump s just being Trump non-answer: Well, here s what happened, Chris, and you know this.
Every time Mr. Trump goes to speak somewhere, he lays out the problems with that given location, whether it s Ohio or Michigan, or Indiana, you know, your country is a mess right now.
Wallace presses Lewandowski on the issue, playing a clip of Newt Gingrich where he states that Trump needs to do more to appeal to Latinos and women.That s when Lewandowski drops a lie that is so embarrassingly blatant, it should end his career.
These are things that are said everywhere we go.
And so, you know, if Donald Trump is winning with Latinos, if you look at the last poll, he s winning with Hispanics.
If you look at the polls, he s doing very well with women.
He has a much more Wallace cutsLewandowskii off to say: Corey, wait, he s not winning with women and he s not winning with Hispanics.
His numbers are hugely underwater with both.
Ouch, that has got to sting.
Wallace is telling the truth.
Trump s polling numbers with both women and Hispanics (not surprisingly) are extremely low.
This call out probably won t stop Trump and the rest of his campaign staff from repeating this ludicrous lie.You can watch the interview in full, below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YZpTrryZnxAFeatured image from video screenshot