We know that Donald Trump appeals to what he calls the poorly educated just take a look around any of his rallies but there is a disturbing number of highly educated voters who are also backing the candidate whose platform includes building an 80 ft tall cement wall and tracking Muslim Americans in a database.One such couple, who describe themselves as affluent Americans with postgraduate degrees, wrote a letter to the Financial Times that lays out their support for Trump.
It s as baffling as it is terrifying.Noting that they are socially liberal and fiscally mildly conservative, the couple, identified as Jon and Elsa Sands, say they are well aware of [Trump s] vulgarity and nous deficiency and yet are tempted to vote for him anyway.Electing the standard-bearer of the Democratic Party seems purposeless.
The neanderthal Republicans barely respected the legitimacy of Bill Clinton s or Barack Obama s election, let alone that of Hillary who would arrive tainted with scandal and the email lapses hanging over her head.
We would get four years of gridlock and hearings .
The Republican tribunes, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, are backward, foolish and inexperienced.
John Kasich, a moderate with extensive governmental experience and a willingness to compromise, is an also-ran.The logic, if it can be called that, is that Republicans in Congress won t let Democratic presidents do anything so you might as well go all-in on a Republican outsider like Trump.
This seems to fly directly in the face of President Obama s actual accomplishments an ever-growing list that is proof that an intelligent, driven Democratic president can easily outsmart the Party of No if he puts his or her mind to it.No matter, say the Sands, they are going with Trump.That leaves The Donald, really a moderate in wolf s garb, who would owe nothing to either party and might strike deals, for instance on tax reform.
Yes, we could be like the good citizens who voted for a tameable Hitler in 1933 to get things back on track.
But the alternatives look worse.Trump, who advocates for bringing back torture and killing the families of terrorists, is what the Sands consider a moderate in wolf s garb.
Okay.But even if Trump turns out to be as bad as he freely admits he will be, voting for a Democrat, they say, is worse than knowingly voting for Hitler.
Needless to say, this affluent white couple believe they will be safe from the programs of racial and religious of institutionalized bigotry Trump is sure to institute.
Because if it doesn t affect you, then what s a little dash of war crimes and racism when Trump will stand strong on giving you tax breaks?While the temptation is to blast this couple for their terrifying support of Trump, the scarier thing is: They aren t alone.don't laugh at the "sure, maybe he's hitler, but" argument in FT. Ive heard that many many times from otherwise reasonable people this cycle Asawin Suebsaeng (@swin24) March 1, 2016It must never be ignored that Trump s victories in every primary state so far has been coming from both low income and high income (white people) and poorly educated and highly educated (white people).
The Sands represent the beginning pangs of those looking to excuse Trump s worst attributes so they can support the dictator they want and still sleep at night.As the Sands themselves bring up, a lot of good people voted for Adolf Hitler in 1933, believing him to be an antidote to the dysfunctional German government at the time.
He brought change but not the kind many people would have liked to see.Featured image via Darron Birgenheier/Flickr