Donald Trump s White House mouthpiece just gave Melissa McCarthy more material to work with on Saturday Night Live.As we all know, FBI Director James Comey revealed during testimony under oath that Trump is being investigated for colluding with Russia during the 2016 Election and has been under investigation for months.
Comey also confirmed that Trump s wiretapping accusation against President Obama is bullshit.These revelations have given the White House Press Corps a lot of questions to ask, and Sean Spicer is not happy about it.In particular, Spicer has had to deal with questions surrounding former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, who has been attempting to spread pro-Putin propaganda on behalf of Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska for over a decade.Again, Spicer does not like having to answer questions about Trump s ties to Russia.
He would like the media to ignore them and become propaganda outlets for Trump instead.
But Spicer is not getting his way.During Wednesday s press briefing, Axios reporter Jonathan Swan asked Spicer about Manafort s connection to Russia and wanted to know if Trump knew about it.
H was not aware of Paul s client in the last decade, Spicer claimed before getting snippy.
What else is coming out?
What else don t we know?
Where he went to school, who he went to grade school with, who he played with in the sandbox?
Of course, Spicer s credibility imploded on his first day on the job so reporters have no reason to believe him when he claims Trump doesn t know something.Anyway, another reporter attempted to ask a follow-up question and that led to yet another testy exchange, which morphed into yet another Spicer temper tantrum.SPICER: I m answering a question, here.
REPORTER: I m asking a question.
SPICER: No, you re not.
The answer to your question is to talk about someone having a client ten years ago that had a consulting company with clients around the world.
I don t know what he got paid to do.
He was a consultant, he had clients around the world.
There was no suggestion he did anything improper but to suggest that the president knew who his clients were from a decade ago is a bit insane.
He wasn t a government employee, he did not fill out any paperwork attesting to something.
There was nothing he did to suggest at this point that anything was nefarious, he was hired to do a job, he did it plain and simple.
Here s the video via YouTube: Sean Spicer is seriously terrible at his job.
His credibility is shot all to hell and he constantly shoots himself in the foot by getting into confrontations with reporters because they ask certain questions that Spicer and Trump would rather not have to answer.INstead of attacking the media, Spicer would be better off just answering the questions, because the more defensive he gets, the more it looks like Trump has something to hide.
And that means Spicer will have to answer even more questions.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images