The Phoenix, Arizona police department is not at all happy with Donald Trump after the GOP presidential nominee aired an ad implying they were endorsing him.
They weren t and now the police department wants the ad taken off the air.The ad includes a short clip of Trump being surrounded by Phoenix police.
He was seen shaking hands with one.
While the ad didn t specifically say that the Phoenix PD was endorsing Trump, it was a implied and for that, the Phoenix Police Department sent Trump a cease and desist letter demanding the ad be taken down.
Phoenix has not approved and will not approve the creation or use of any media bearing the faces and likenesses of its on-duty police officers in any political advertisement for any political candidate, (City Attorney Brad) Holm wrote in the letter.
The officers were unaware they were photographed and videotaped, and they did not consent to the use of their on-duty images in any Trump (or any other) campaign advertisement.
Source: ABC 15Holm went on to say that Trump, in his ad, unmistakably and wrongfully implied the city and its police officers endorsed Trump.
Not only that, the inclusion of the uniforms violates, according to Holm, copyright laws.
As owner of this intellectual property, the City of Phoenix hereby orders the Trump campaign to immediately cease and desist from your unauthorized use of Phoenix Police Department uniforms, bird emblem, police badge, police insignia patch, and all other imagery of official City of Phoenix materials and on-duty employees, Holm wrote.Here s the ad.
The brief and objectionable moment comes at the :22 mark.There seems to be a bizarre war going on in normally very red Arizona.
Even before the Phoenix police balked at Trump s campaign ad, the Arizona Republic newspaper gave a rousing endorsement of Hillary Clinton and a thorough takedown of Donald Trump.
Trump is asking his followers to cancel their subscription to the Arizona Republic and to the other papers that are lining up against the dangerous presidential candidate.The people are really smart in cancelling subscriptions to the Dallas & Arizona papers & now USA Today will lose readers!
The people get it!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016His supporters, of course, are going even further.
The paper has been receiving death threats.
You have to wonder if the police department will also receive death threats, or just its lawyer.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images