German Social Democrat leader Martin Schulz said that, if elected chancellor, he would push for the EU to cut subsidies to countries that do not take in refugees.
With me as chancellor we won t accept that solidarity as a principle is questioned, Schulz said on Tuesday at a conference of a business lobbying group with ties to his party.On Monday, Orb n told the Hungarian parliament that his country will not give in to blackmail from Brussels and we reject the mandatory relocation quota.
Schulz shot back swiftly at Orb n in his speech on Tuesday.His comments came as the European Commission voted to launch infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic, Poland, and Hungary for not taking in refugees under a mandatory 2015 quota system advocated by Germany that aimed to relocate 160,000 refugees across the Continent.Hungary s badass Prime Minister Viktor Orb n has consistently stood up to leftist EU bullies who are demanding that all EU nations take their fair share of the mass influx of mostly Muslim refugees.
We shall not allow others to tell us whom we can let into our home and country, whom we can live alongside.
Prime Minister Viktor Orb nWatch Prime Minister Viktor Orb n s historic speech in March, 2016, where he demands other European leaders find their backbone and save Europe before it s too late.
His speech will make you want to stand up and cheer!
Mr.Orb n says That s a German problem, Schulz said.
Let me make this perfectly clear: When it comes to agricultural policy, it s all Yes, please.
When it comes to subsidies, it s all Yes, please.
And when it comes to solidarity in refugee policy, it s No, thank you that s not acceptable.
German Social Democrat leader Martin Schulz said that, if elected chancellor, he would push for the EU to cut subsidies to countries that do not take in refugees.
With me as chancellor we won t accept that solidarity as a principle is questioned, Schulz said on Tuesday at a conference of a business lobbying group with ties to his party.His comments came as the European Commission voted to launch infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic, Poland, and Hungary for not taking in refugees under a mandatory 2015 quota system advocated by Germany that aimed to relocate 160,000 refugees across the Continent.East European leaders, particularly Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orb n, have repeatedly railed against the EU resettlement plan.
Politico