The not so funny comedian Louis C.K.
appeared on the Stephen Colbert show mostly to talk about his decision to send an email to his fans, where he told them that Donald Trump is an insane bigot and Hitler .
After the self-righteous comedian got some laughs from Colbert s liberal audience, Colbert asked them to settle down, that Louis C.K.
admitted that after he sent the email, he regretted it.
C.K.
went on to say that he didn t really regret it, he just regretted saying it , or in other words, he regrets that he was outed as a whiny, liberal, crybaby who can t control his emotions (our translation).
One of the most interesting lines in the interview came after the Trump bashing where the outed sexual predator tells Colbert, I wouldn t take it back.
If you went back and fixed all the mistakes you made, you erase yourself.
You know, there s just no point to that.
Good luck trying to erase yourself after you ve been outed creep Here s part of Louis C.K.
s email to his fans: Please stop it with voting for Trump.
It was funny for a little while.
But the guy is Hitler.
And by that I mean that we are being Germany in the 30s.
Do you think they saw the shit coming?
Hitler was just some hilarious and refreshing dude with a weird comb over who would say anything at all.And I m not advocating for Hillary or Bernie.
I like them both but frankly I wish the next president was a conservative only because we had Obama for eight years and we need balance.
And not because I particularly enjoy the conservative agenda.
I just think the government should reflect the people.
And we are about 40 percent conservative and 40 percent liberal.
When I was growing up and when I was a younger man, liberals and conservatives were friends with differences.
They weren t enemies.
And it always made sense that everyone gets a president they like for a while and then hates the president for a while.
But it only works if the conservatives put up a good candidate.
A good smart conservative to face the liberal candidate so they can have a good argument and the country can decide which way to go this time.Trump is not that.
He s an insane bigot.
He is dangerous.Watch Louis C.K.
joke around with Stephen Colbert about his disdain for President Trump, calling him a Gross crook, dirty, rotten, lying sack of sh*t. The not so funny comedian was outed today as a serial sexual predator.NPR reported that Louis C.K.
masturbated in front of multiple female colleagues, to their shock and dismay, according to women who spoke on the record to The New York Times about their experiences.The famous comic has been surrounded by rumors of sexual misconduct for years specifically, allegations that he would masturbate in front of female colleagues.Last year, the comedian Roseanne Barr told The Daily Beast that C.K.
was about to get busted for his conduct.
It s Louis C.K., locking the door and masturbating in front of women comics and writers.
I can t tell you I ve heard so many stories, she said.
Comedian Tig Notaro acknowledged the allegations this summer and said C.K.
needed to handle them.But previously, those stories were shared secondhand.
Now, five women have spoken to the Times directly, with only one requesting anonymity.
You can read the full story which goes into much more detail over at the New York Times.This Twitter user nailed it when it comes to just how disgusting Louis C.K.
really is:Guys like Louis CK could just pay a sex worker.
Could even request the sex worker play like she's uncomfortable if they likes.
But they don't want that.
The pleasure is in the actual discomfort of their victims, the power to overwhelm or make them just take it.
It's horrendous.
Rae Sanni (@raesanni) November 9, 2017And here s the icing on the cake Louis C.K.
admitting how he loves to masturbate everywhere on Fox News with Greg Gutfeld.This is Louis CK pic.twitter.com/el0FesJIhX Jacob Wohl (@JacobAWohl) November 9, 2017