Donald Trump is reportedly considering an executive order that would pull the United States out of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) unless they are willing to renegotiate with him for a better deal.This is what Trump had to say about NAFTA during his recent word salad of an interview with the Associated Press earlier this week.AP: What about NAFTA?
What s the plan on NAFTA?TRUMP: What would you like to know?AP: I would like to know what your plan is in terms of renegotiating.TRUMP: I am very upset with NAFTA.
I think NAFTA has been a catastrophic trade deal for the United States, trading agreement for the United States.
It hurts us with Canada, and it hurts us with Mexico.
Most people don t even think of NAFTA in terms of Canada.
You saw what happened yesterday in my statements, because if you look at the dairy farmers in Wisconsin and upstate New York, they are getting killed by NAFTA.AP: Is your plan still, though, to renegotiate the whole deal?TRUMP: I am going to either renegotiate it or I am going to terminate it.AP: Termination is still on the table.TRUMP: Absolutely.
If they don t treat fairly, I am terminating NAFTA.AP: What s a timeline for that decision?TRUMP: It s a six-month termination clause, I have the right to do it, it s a six-month clause.CNN reported today that two senior administration officials had confirmed that Trump is debating withdrawing the U.S. from NAFTA through an executive order.
The White House is currently mulling an executive order declaring the US intent to withdraw from NAFTA, a move that could trigger a renegotiation of the trade pact rather than outright withdrawal, the officials told CNN.This isn t a new stance for Trump, who railed against NAFTA throughout his campaign.
In June, Trump declared that NAFTA was the worst trade deal in the history of this country.
I m going to tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal by a lot, not just a little, by a lot for our workers.
And if they don t agree to a renegotiation, which they might not, because they re so used to having their own way not with Trump, they won t have their own way then I will submit under Article 2205 of the NAFTA agreement that America intends to withdraw from the deal, Trump declared to his rabid supporters last summer.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images