Donald Trump s tweets just became the club progressives like Bernie Sanders are going to use to hammer him with over the next four years.It s no secret that Trump is obsessed with spewing all kinds of bullshit on Twitter, but they are a liability that will make Republicans regret making Trump their leader.Because messages on Twitter can live forever.
Even if Trump deletes them, there are likely always going to be copies that were captured via screenshot.But Bernie Sanders didn t need to worry about that because Trump rarely deletes his past tweets, which made things awkward for Trump and the Senate Republicans as Sanders took to the floor to passionately defend Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, all three of which Republicans want to gut after Trump takes office on January 20th.Throughout the primaries and the presidential campaign, Trump told his supporters that he would not cut Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid.
Most prominently, he repeated that message on Twitter in May 2015 to claim that Mike Huckabee copied him by saying the same thing.
I was the first & only potential GOP candidate to state there will be no cuts to Social Security, Medicare & Medicaid, Trump wrote.
Huckabee copied me.
Well, during his time on the Senate floor on Wednesday, Sanders used that very tweet against Trump, even going so far as to blow it up for all to see, to demonstrate that if Trump signs any legislation Republicans send him to target these sacred programs, he would be breaking a core promise to the people who voted for him.Sanders began by calling out Republicans for cruelly seeking to repeal Obamacare, which would leave millions of Americans without health insurance and increase the deficit by hundreds of millions of dollars.He then slammed Republicans for taking at a Medicare in their budget bill, a move that would eliminate Medicare as it currently exists, a government-run program that actually works to provide senior citizens the healthcare they need at a far lower cost than a private insurance plan would provide.Sanders also repeated a statement Trump made on April 8, 2015.
Every Republican wants to do a big number on Social Security, Trump said.
They want to do it on Medicare and they want to do it on Medicaid and we can t do it.
It s not fair to the people who have been paying in for years.
In March, Trump attacked Paul Ryan for planning to gut Medicare, but Trump made it clear that he doesn t support Ryan s plan because it will cost Republicans the election.
Millions of people voted for him on the belief that he would keep his word, Sanders declared.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is already backing away from his promises, which means his supporters were duped in the worst way.
They were stabbed in the back and now have to face a future where Medicare, Social Security, Medicaid, and Obamacare do not exist.
And they only have themselves to blame for believing Trump in the first place.Featured image via screenshot