The number of law enforcement officials killed by gunfire is up 150% this year.
In an effort to pander for the black vote, Hillary says she would like our police officers to be retrained.
She ignores the fact that so many families of law enforcement officers have lost a father or mother, husband or wife to criminals.
Hillary would like to instead, ensure the gangbangers who are likely using guns they obtained illegally are protected from our law enforcement.
Hillary Clinton spent her Sunday in New York campaigning in front of black congregations during which she continued to reiterate her support for retraining police officers.Clinton has made police reform a recurring theme in her bid for the Democratic nomination.
She was endorsed Sunday by Nicole Bell, wife of Sean Bell, a man who was killed by the NYPD in 2005.
No officers were found guilty of any wrongdoing in the incident.
Today, I was endorsed by this beautiful young woman, Nicole Bell, whose fianc was killed by the police right before she was to be married.
When I was a Senator, I tried to help.
I tried to stand up about what had happened, the former secretary of state said at the Brown Memorial Baptist Church in Clinton Hill, NY.Clinton added, today she wrote an editorial in The Daily News endorsing me and she said we have three common goals, she and I together, we have to end the epidemic of gun violence.
Bell didn t write an op-ed Sunday, but in an interview with The New York Daily News she said, [Hillary s] against racial profiling.
And she wants to make investments to improve training for police officers.
Those issues hit home for me and my family.
Hillary repeated these comments almost verbatim at her church visit saying, We have to end racial profiling and we have to retrain our police officers so they can do a job that doesn t require reaching for their gun when it is absolutely unnecessary.
HERE S THE LIST OF Police Officers Killed By Gunfire in 2016 (so far):Police Officer Thomas W. Cottrell, Jr. Danville Police Department, OH EOW: Sunday, January 17, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireUnified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake, Utah Police Officer Douglas Scott Barney, II.
Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake, UT EOW: Sunday, January 17, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireSeaside Police Department, Oregon Sergeant Jason Goodding Seaside Police Department, OR EOW: Friday, February 5, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireMesa County Sheriff s Office, Colorado Deputy Sheriff Derek Geer Mesa County Sheriff s Office, CO EOW: Wednesday, February 10, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireHarford County Sheriff s Office, Maryland Senior Deputy Mark Logsdon Harford County Sheriff s Office, MD EOW: Wednesday, February 10, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireHarford County Sheriff s Office, Maryland Senior Deputy Patrick Dailey Harford County Sheriff s Office, MD EOW: Wednesday, February 10, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireRiverdale Police Department, Georgia Major Gregory E. Barney Riverdale Police Department, GA EOW: Thursday, February 11, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireFargo Police Department, North Dakota Police Officer Jason Moszer Fargo Police Department, ND EOW: Thursday, February 11, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireMississippi Department of Public Safety Bureau of Narcotics, Mississippi Special Agent Lee Tartt Mississippi Department of Public Safety Bureau of Narcotics, MS EOW: Saturday, February 20, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfirePark County Sheriff s Office, Colorado Corporal Nate Carrigan Park County Sheriff s Office, CO EOW: Wednesday, February 24, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfirePrince William County Police Department, Virginia Officer Ashley Marie Guindon Prince William County Police Department, VA EOW: Saturday, February 27, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireEuless Police Department, Texas Police Officer David Stefan Hofer Euless Police Department, TX EOW: Tuesday, March 1, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfirePrince George s County Police Department, Maryland Police Officer I Jacai D. Colson Prince George s County Police Department, MD EOW: Sunday, March 13, 2016 Cause of Death: Gunfire (Accidental)Greenville Police Department, South Carolina Police Officer III Allen Lee Jacobs Greenville Police Department, SC EOW: Friday, March 18, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireHoward County Sheriff s Office, Indiana Deputy Sheriff Carl A. Koontz Howard County Sheriff s Office, IN EOW: Sunday, March 20, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireVirginia State Police, VirginiaTrooper Chad Phillip Dermyer Virginia State Police, VA EOW: Thursday, March 31, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireCanton Police Department, Ohio K9 Jethro Canton Police Department, OH EOW: Sunday, January 10, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireNorfolk Police Department, Virginia K9 Krijger Norfolk Police Department, VA EOW: Monday, January 11, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireSmith County Constable s Office Precinct 5, Texas K9 Ogar Smith County Constable s Office Precinct 5, TX EOW: Tuesday, January 19, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireOmaha Police Department, Nebraska K9 Kobus Omaha Police Department, NE EOW: Saturday, January 23, 2016 Cause of Death: GunfireLas Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, NevadaK9 Nicky Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, NV EOW: Thursday, March 31, 2016 Cause of Death: Gunfire (Accidental)Regarding racial profiling, her website says she d support legislation to end racial profiling.
There are no details as to what that legislation would include.
She has in the past supported former attorney general Eric Holder s police reform efforts.Via: Daily Caller