Earlier this week, Donald Trump made a speech in Bismarck, North Dakota to talk about his energy policy.
While it might have been refreshing for the business mogul to actually talk about a policy instead of attacking his Democratic rivals, saying offensive things about women and minorities or retweeting white supremacists, it s safe to say Trump s supporters should hold off on getting too excited over anything he says because it s all false promises.During Trump s speech, Trump promised American voters that he would cancel the crucial 2015 Paris agreement that binds all nations to the common goal of tackling climate change, and that he d rescind the EPA rules that President Barack Obama set up to decrease emissions from coal-fired power plants.
If it sounds improbable, that s because it pretty much is and no one was faster to point this out that CNN s Chris Cuomo on Friday.
In speaking with Trump s campaign senior advisor Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Cuomo criticized the GOP candidate for his sloppy ideas.
He said: Donald Trump put out a big speech about his energy policy, about coal, about oil, about regulation.
And the criticism of it is that he proposed a lot of things that can t be done.
You can t get rid of all of the EPA regulations.
You can t just make coal as huge as it once was.
There are good and bad reasons for that.
Fair criticisms that the proposal can t do what Donald Trump says it will do.
Huckabee Sanders argued that the Environmental Protection Agency has to be reined in and brought back down.
She said: I think there are some big things you can do, and exactly what Donald Trump said is we need to move to an all-of-the-above approach.
The Obama administration and his energy policy has been job-killing, [has] raised energy costs across America, has been horrible for our country, so we ve got to go back to where we put all options on the table.
Huckabee Sanders continued to diss Obama and added that, We ve got to absolutely reverse what has taken place over the last eight years under the Obama administration by taking away the energy independence that Americans have enjoyed and making us more dependent on foreign energy and go back to where we can energize our own country on our own.
Cuomo fired back, stating that the EPA wasn t perfect, just like every government agency.
He continued: But reducing fossil fuel dependence is a very popular thing in America, and that s a big part of the regulations, and in terms of energy independence, the United States right now puts out 74 percent of its oil needs.
I mean, I guess you could go to 100 percent, but the idea that we re somehow, you know, really deficient in terms of how much of our own needs we provide for, it s just not true.
Huckabee Sanders continued to try and counter attack, but Cuomo shut her down every time with realistic scenarios and facts.
You can watch Cuomo blast Trump s policies below: Trump s energy policy speech came just a day before Trump told drought-stricken Californians that the extreme water shortage they ve been experiencing doesn t really exist, and offered a conspiracy theory as an alternative explanation.
Clearly, Trump isn t someone that we can trust for environmental or energy issues.Featured image is a screenshot