Donald Trump and his supporters are vigorously trying to blame anyone but the billionaire conspiracy theorist Republican nominee for his birtherism.
Former Arizona Governor Jan Brewer claimed on CNN this morning that there were plenty of Democrats all over the country that questioned President Obama s birthplace, too.Marc Morial said the birther issue was offensive to us, it was offensive to Americans.
Not so fast, you can t just sweep it under the rug.
Marc Morial said that Trump sounded like Joseph McCarthy and added that it was a smear campaign, and then Brewer said it s time to move on from the subject.
She actually told an African-American man that there are more important issues to talk about.
Trump tried to delegitimize our country s first black president by suggesting that he s really a scary Muslim from Kenya.
You can t blow that racist dog whistle any louder than that.
She quoted President Obama when she said that.
Obama is probably sick of discussing his birth certificate after nearly two terms in office.
The President took the high road when Donald Trump took the low road on the subject.One of the CNN panelists reminded Brewer that she said years ago that the birther issue was nonsense, but we have the Republican nominee not capable of saying it in 2011, 2012, 2014 and 2015, and then says this very thing he should have said years ago.
And then he starts another lie around it, she added.Jan Brewer baffled the panel when she went on to say that for years the birther issue, was a feeding frenzy on both sides of the aisle.
She claimed to remember that vividly.
Jake Tapper asked Brewer, Democrats were?
Brewer said absolutely.
Watch:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y3peRl_7UYA]So first Donald circulated a conspiracy theory about Obama s citizenship, then he took credit for proving that the president was not born in Kenya, and then he covered that up with another conspiracy theory saying that Hillary Clinton started his first conspiracy theory.
And now, Jan Brewer is blaming Democrats.Featured image via screen capture.