Former Donald Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski isn t even a month into his new role as a CNN contributor, but it s been a disaster since day one.
Not only has Lewandowski revealed that, by contract, he is forbidden to say anything critical about Trump, but Lewandowski has pretty much served as a spokesman for his former boss.While CNN s hiring of Lewandowski is still puzzling to most of us, at least it s providing a few laughs as we watch Lewandowski repeatedly fail.
Lewandowski s latest f*** up happened on Friday during New Day, when he addressed the criticism Trump has faced recently for breaking the law and spamming foreign members of parliament by begging for money (following reports that Trump s campaign is nearly broke).
Lewandowski tried to defend Trump, and it went so horribly wrong that it s painful to watch.Lewandowski attempted to make the argument that those fundraising emails were only sent to people who had opted to get emails from the Trump campaign but CNN s Alisyn Camerota wasn t letting that slide.
Camerota called Lewandowski out on this lie, reminding him that those MPs from other countries were upset because they d never signed up to get those emails in the first place.Camerota asked Lewandowski, How would a member of British parliament have gotten this solicitation?
Lewandowski responded: If the member of the British parliament or anybody else for that matter opted into the Donald Trump e-mail system Here s when Camerota jumped in and said She said she didn t opt in.
Lewandowski knew he was out of his league, but decided to just keep repeating himself.
He continued: Look, it s possible.
But the bottom line is that anybody who opted into the system voluntarily, and anybody can opt out at any time Camerota just continued to shut him down with She didn t opt in.
Lewandowski was cornered but insisted they can opt in or out of the system.
Once more, Camerota said But she didn t opt in.
Lewandowski was visibly uncomfortable during the exchange, and he coped the only way he knew how by acting aggressively toward a woman.You can watch the video below: Featured image is a screenshot