When Kim Davis made her way back on the street after doing her time and taking her chances, then-presidential candidate Mike Huckabee triumphantly played Survivor s Eye of the Tiger to welcome the bigoted Kentucky county clerk back to the civilization whose laws she refused to respect.
Davis was jailed briefly after refusing to issue marriage licenses to gay couples in violation of the Supreme Court s ruling that same-sex marriage is legal nationwide something that angered the band s frontman, Frankie Sullivan.
NO!
We did not grant Kim Davis any rights to use My Tune -The Eye Of The Tiger.
I would not grant her the rights to use Charmin!
a furious Sullivan wrote on Twitter following Davis and Huckabee s stunt.
See Ya really SoooooooonnnnnN!!!
The Rude Music, which is owned by Sullivan, quickly sued Huckabee for copyright infringement, leading Huckabee s campaign to boldly declare they would not be bullied by artists whose only desire is to protect the integrity of their work.
Mr. Sullivan is demanding an amount of money that exceeds the average yearly salary of a hard-working American simply because a snippet of his song was played briefly at a rally, Huckabee spokeswoman Alice Stewart told CNN at the time.
The campaign offered Mr. Sullivan fair compensation, but that offer was rejected.
We refuse to be bullied.
The campaign argued that the event was a religious assembly and that it didn t have to pay because the hate rally was non-commercial a strange assertion given that Huckabee s political campaign paid for everything.
Ultimately, Huckabee s legal defense performed a perfect imitation of his presidential campaign.
He ultimately settled for a confidential amount but the former Fox News contributor s campaign disclosure forms reveal that he made two payments of $12,500 to Rude Music.
The first was listed as a legal settlement for copyright infringement.
The second was listed under debts and obligations.
Since Huckabee s campaign was perpetually broke, the 2016 washout petitioned the FEC to allow him to set up a special legal defense fund, but the FEC told him to bootstrap it up and pay the money himself.Featured image via Getty Images/Ty Wright