We on the left are all wondering why, out of the vast field of GOP candidates, Donald Trump roared to the nomination, toppling traditional candidates like Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio, and even hard-right bigots like Ted Cruz.
No, they picked The Donald, and no matter how vulgar he was, how bigoted he was, how dangerously unhinged he was, they still picked him.
Then, they got him elected president, to the horror of most Americans and to the delight of that swath of people who were so entranced by Trump from the moment he rode down that escalator.Well, now, we are 100 days in, and the Trump presidency is just as chaotic and terrifying as we all knew it would be.
Trump is incompetent and dangerous, as well as an embarrassment on the world stage.
Yet, his voters are sticking with him.
And Bill Maher, host of HBO s Real Time, thinks he knows why.
Remember when Trump said he could shoot someone in the middle of New York City s Fifth Avenue and not lose voters?
That s likely true.
And Maher has the answer as to why.
He said in his New Rules segment on Friday night: Trump supporters aren t changing their minds because the problem isn t in the mind.
It s lower.
It s emotional.
He could have Ann Frank s skeleton in his closet.
They d all vote for him again.
He continued, letting liberals know why facts, vulgarity, incompetence, and any other outrage Trump might commit matters not to his devoted followers: I think it s a gut feeling that the world has changed and they don t like it.
Trump is going to change it back to the way it was.
Maher then went on to mock Trump voters in a hillbilly affect, saying things like: I ain t no racist, but why does American need to have a black Santa Claus?
And did I mention Bruce Jenner has tits now?
Returning to his normal voice, Maher explained: I think I speak for most liberals when I say, I don t care about black Santa.
I don t think it s going to make the Little Drummer Boy start cutting himself.
But to Trump voters, making Santa black is unthinkable.
It d be like making Jesus Middle Eastern.
Maher concluded, summing up just why Trump voters put him in the White House, despite the fact that he is clearly the last person who should be president: This is why building that stupid wall is still a key issue for them.
It represents keeping out not just immigrants but everything that is new and different and scary and unfamiliar.
And this is just it.
These people don t care what Trump does.
He ll make America comfortable for them again, in their minds.
There will be no more religions besides Christianity, there will be no LGBTQ rights, black people and other minorities will know their places, women would be in the kitchen and the bedroom where they belong rather than in the boardroom, and white men will control everything again.This is about cultural anxiety and bigotry.
It really was, as Van Jones says, a white lash.
Therefore, don t try and woo Trump voters away from him with facts.
They seriously don t care.Watch Bill Maher s very important message below:Featured image via video screen capture