Republicans have spent the last few years in a frenzy, passing pro-gun legislation at every opportunity even while mass shootings continue to plague the country.
At the moment, conservatives in almost every state are spending enormous amounts of energy passing so-called guns everywhere bills that allow people to go to places like bars, national parks, churches, and schools strapped with a firearm.
They say this will keep people safe because more guns means more good guys with guns.
But when it comes to their own events, their opinion suddenly drastically changes.
Thousands of Tea Party patriots and conservative fanatics crammed into a small conference center?
Organizers would rather they left their guns at home.
After all, they may be hypocrites, but they re not suicidal!Republicans have flocked to the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center in Maryland to attend the Conservative Political Action Conference, one of the biggest Republican events of the year.
At the event, attendees will hear right-wing talking points spoken by some of their favorite Republican politicians and drilled into their heads over loudspeakers.
Without a doubt, CPAC will feature lots of pro-gun mania.
A few years ago, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was actually given a musket on stage to the delight of the audience.
(Yeah, CPAC is really weird.
)But this year before they can get in, attendees are greeted with this sign.At CPAC there will be no good guys with guns :/ pic.twitter.com/Kn8tUWyubs Betsy Woodruff (@woodruffbets) March 3, 2016They then must walk through a metal detector just to ensure they aren t still bearing arms.Why ban guns?
Well, because having that many gun carriers packed into a small area practically begs a tragedy to happen.
Whether by accident or on purpose, the chances of a shooting skyrocket.
This year will be particularly tense, because the Republican Party is in the process of imploding.
Trump fans, known for roughing up their critics, and Republican establishment fans, known for hating Trump, will be crammed into Standing Room Only venues.
Weapons are the last thing these people need.Inside, they ll probably feel a bit naked without their guns, but they will be covered head-to-toe in hypocrisy.
Gun free zones are for liberal places like churches, universities, and elementary schools.
This is CPAC, where conservatives can roam in the comfort of their own warped ideology.
Everyone should have a Bible in their breastpocket and a gun on their hip.
Conceding that guns make a place dangerous is counter to their most sacred belief: Guns keep us safe.It s unclear whether the no guns allowed policy came from CPAC organizers or the convention center they rented.
Either way, it looks bad.
Republicans want guns to be around school children but can t tolerate them during their weekend event.Featured image via Flickr