How does the saying go?
Fox News: Not racist, but number one with racists.
Actually, no, they are pretty damn racist.
And proof of this can be seen on Fox & Friends, when they decided to talk about the Super Bowl halftime show and Beyonc s performance.According to Fox News and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Beyonc wasn t wholesome enough for them, and she bashed police officers.
You know, because god forbid as an African-American artist Beyonc speak of the ever-present reality of police brutality that has become an epidemic in the nation for people of color.
And instead of seeing her performance as something that can bring people together to tackle hate, Giuliani saw it as a tribute to the Black Panthers.Brian Kilmeade said: I couldn t really make out what Beyonc was saying.
But at the end, we find out Beyonc dressed up in a tribute to the Black Panthers, went to a Malcolm X formation.
And the song, the lyrics, which I couldn t make out a syllable, were basically telling cops to stop shooting blacks!
Okay, first of all, here s who Beyonc seemed to be paying tribute to, after all the entire halftime show was paying tribute to past performers:Michael Jackson.
Beyonce.
#SuperBowl pic.twitter.com/VAraK3dppE zellie (@zellieimani) February 8, 2016Fox News, though, knowing they have to cater to their racist fan base, insists it s a tribute to the Black Panthers.Secondly, if she is speaking of police brutality, what better stage than one that is being watched by over 100 million viewers worldwide.
It is a national epidemic that is obvious to anyone who isn t a raging racist.Giuliani chimed in with: I think it was outrageous.
The halftime show I thought was ridiculous anyway, I don t know what the heck it was.
A bunch of people like bouncing around and doing strange things.
I actually don t even know why we have this.
I thought it was really outrageous that she used it as a platform to attack police officers, who are the people who protect her.
What we should be doing in the African-American community and all communities is build up respect for police officers.
He apparently doesn t see that, while yes, police officers should be respected, many of these officers need to also respect the citizens they are paid to serve and protect.The former mayor continued: This is a political position and she s probably going to take advantage of it.
You re talking to middle America when you have the Super Bowl.
So if you re going to have entertainment, let s have decent, wholesome entertainment.
And not use it as a platform to attack the people who put their lives at risk just to save us.
Yes, let s not ever make people think about things.
Let s keep things clean and under cover, like apparently this entire couch when they are wearing their white sheets at the local Klan meeting.
What the actual fuck?
They are being racist, at this point, to just be racist.
Beyonc s performance was flawless and entertaining, see it for what it is, and not for what your racist brain twists it to be.Watch the whole exchange here: Video/Featured image fromRaw Story YouTube