While both of her parents travel around the country giving commencement speeches at colleges and universities about the oppression and discrimination they ve experienced throughout their miserable existence, their oldest daughter (who attended one of the top private schools in America) will be getting ready to attend her mother, father and grandfather s alma mater.
Harvard University accepted 2,032 students for the class of 2016, an acceptance rate of only 5.9%.
Lucky Malia she will be part of that exclusive group of kids who are fortunate enough to attend such a prestigious university.
Black privilege?The White House confirmed on Sunday that the President s eldest daughter will take a gap year after graduating from high school in June.The White House confirmed the story after student newspaper The Tab posted a picture of Malia wearing a Harvard t-shirt.She will then begin her studies at the prestigious institution in Massachusetts in 2017, joining the Class of 2021.
The president and Mrs. Obama announced today that their daughter Malia will attend Harvard University in the fall of 2017 as a member of the Class of 2021, said a short statement issued Sunday by first lady Michelle Obama s office.
Malia will take a gap year before beginning school.
Here is our racist First Lady attempting to convince America she has been held down her entire life:And here is poor Michelle again bemoaning her experiences with race and sex discrimination:It follows months of speculation on whether she would end up at an Ivy League or pursue film at New York University.- Daily MailWhite privilege?
Not so much How White and Asian students are fighting back in court against affirmative action that provides special consideration for Blacks and Hispanics in the college admissions process:The death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin G. Scalia could affect the Court s upcoming decision in Fisher v. Texas, an affirmative action case that experts say may change the admissions processes of universities including Harvard.Harvard University waded into a Supreme Court battle over affirmative action in colleges and universities last week, with a full-throated defense of racial diversity.
The university submitted an amicus curiae brief to the court, which is preparing to consider the case of Abigail Fisher for the second time.
Fisher has charged that she was not admitted to the University of Texas at Austin because she is white.
Not only does diversity powerfully transform a student s educational experience, but the benefits also reach beyond the walls of our campus they go to the heart of our democracy, wrote lawyers representing Harvard.
Forbidding institutions of higher education from considering race in deciding whom to admit would represent a significant intrusion into the academic freedom of universities.
The Fisher case could force colleges and universities to stop considering race as a factor in admissions.
A decision in Fisher s favor could affect not just public universities like UT-Austin, but any college that receives federal aid, including Harvard.
The university is facing a separate lawsuit (PDF) alleging that it discriminated against Asian American applicants because of its policy of considering race in deciding whom to admit to the school.
Universities should not be compelled to ignore that students of different races and ethnic backgrounds often grow up separated and apart from one another, not exposed to others experiences, perspectives, and values, wrote lawyers for Harvard in the Fisher brief.
Harvard s concern is misplaced.
No one is suggesting that all holistic admissions criteria at the University of Texas or elsewhere should be eliminated only an applicant s race and ethnicity, said Edward Blum, who runs a legal defense group that helped propel Fisher s case to the Supreme Court and is also behind the Asian discrimination suit against Harvard.
Still, the university was adamant that it needs to look at the racial background of students who apply.
Harvard s graduates cannot be blind either to the challenges facing our increasingly pluralistic country or to the unresolved racial divisions that stubbornly persist.