Once again, states run by conservative Republicans have provoked international embarrassment for America.
This time, it is because our British allies now have to warn their LGBT citizens about traveling to southern states that recently passed anti-LGBT laws.Britain has issued a new warning for LGBT travelers visiting parts of the United States: Be wary.In an update to its U.S. travel advisory, the British Foreign Office highlighted the anti-gay laws recently passed in North Carolina and Mississippi.
The U.S. is an extremely diverse society and attitudes towards LGBT people differ hugely across the country, the advisory stated.
LGBT travelers may be affected by legislation passed recently in the states of North Carolina and Mississippi.
Before traveling please read our general travel advice for the LGBT community.
North Carolina and Missippi have lost revenue due to businesses (Paypal, Pepsi and many others) canceling plans to open facilities there and musicians like Bruce Springsteen and Pearl Jam deciding to cancel concert dates in those states all because a minority of anti-LGBT bigots have decided to pass laws based on the myth of transgender bathroom predators.The so-called bathroom bills are laws correcting a problem that doesn t actually exist, in order to make conservative politicians look good to their base by attacking a group of Americans.
It is what the right has devolved to and is part of their desperate attempts to keep so-called values voters perpetually on the edge and consistently voting for conservative Republican political candidates.In response to the British Foreign Office, the Human Rights campaign issued a statement noting, It is both frightening and embarrassing that one of our nation s staunchest allies has warned its citizens of the risks of traveling to North Carolina and Mississippi because of anti-LGBT laws passed by their elected officials.
It s even more bizarre that the supposedly pro-business right would push these laws, since the states who pass them will suffer economically.
Being bigoted like this in 2016 is bad for business.Featured image via Flickr