They say the cover-up is always worse than the act itself, and Alabama Governor Robert Bentley is learning that lesson right now.The Republican governor has refused to resign and is currently facing impeachment because Bentley was caught on tape talking to Rebekah Mason, a staffer who works for him, about the extramarital affair they were conducting at the time with each other.
I love you, Bentley told Mason in the recording.
I love to talk to you.
Baby, let me tell you what we re going to have to start doing, we re going to have to start locking the door.
If we are going to do what we did the other day, we are going to have to start locking the door.
Clearly, Bentley told Mason they ll have to lock the door because their relationship became physical andthe logical reason why they would have to start locking the door is so someone doesn t walk in on them and catch them in the act.The audio tape of Bentley and his mistress caused Bentley s wife to divorce him and as previously mentioned, the Alabama legislature has started impeachment proceedings against him.But now it appears that Bentley actually tried to cover up his affair by lying to a state lawmaker during a telephone call that was recorded.Alabama state Rep. Allen Farley caught Bentley on tape accusing the gambling industry in the state of spreading false allegations about him and Mason because he claims they were desperate enough to block his tax measures that they would sink to any low to do it.
There is no affair going on, Bentley claims in the audio recording.
He then goes on to talk about Mason and how his wife is jealous of her and again denies that he is having an affair with her.The 25 minute phone call continues with Bentley denying that he ever used government money or the government plane to help him carry on the affair.Bentley then goes on to claim that there is a conspiracy against him orchestrated by the casino industry to force him to stop pursuing his tax agenda.
Casino gambling people are feeding this story, Bentley said.
These guys, let me tell you what they re most concerned about.
They re most concerned about a lottery and me signing a compact with the Indians.
That s what they re concerned about That is the loaded gun right there.
And they will do anything because these guys are poised to make hundreds of millions of dollars.
Here s the audio via YouTube.So the plot has definitely thickened in this scandal and it looks like Bentley is in deep sh*t right now.
He repeatedly lied about the affair before the first recording came out proving that he is a liar.
And now we have a recording of Bentley flatly lying to a state congressman in an effort to cover up his affair by falsely accusing a major industry in Alabama of basically trying to blackmail him.If this isn t enough to result in Bentley s ouster the people of Alabama need to install a brand new state legislature.Featured image via YouTube