During all the fallout from the Access Hollywood tape that first revealed Donald Trump to be a sexual predator, and now, with all the women coming forward to accuse him of sexual assault, Ivanka has stood staunchly by her father.
It seems, though, that such support is hurting her own business.
Ivanka has a clothing line, which is sold in stores like TJ Maxx, but women who ve been forced to relive their own pain from sexual assault because of Trump are boycotting Ivanka s brand.Cosmopolitan spoke to Lindsey Ledford, a sexual assault survivor, about what seeing the Trump name on a blouse did to her: My first thought was, Grab them by the pussy.
We can do anything we want.
Don t even ask, Ledford told Cosmopolitan.com.
The blouse was triggering traumatic flashbacks to physical abuse she d suffered in the past, and to times she d been grabbed or groped by men without her consent.
None of them ever asked how I felt, what I was thinking, or what I wanted.
They didn t wait, she wrote in a flurry of tweets at T.J. Maxx after fleeing the store.
That is what Trump means to me, she told me: complete disregard for women and their bodies.
It doesn t matter if Ivanka s name is in front of it, or Donald s.' There s a growing coalition of women who are working to boycott both Ivanka s brand and the stores that carry it because it s too closely linked to Donald Trump.
This plan came about because of Shannon Coulter, the CEO of a boutique marketing agency, just after the Access Hollywood tape came out.
She tweeted:Not enough to not buy Ivanka s collection.
She campaigns for him.
We should avoid stores that carry it.
#fashionnotfascism #ivankant Shannon Coulter ?
(@shannoncoulter) October 12, 2016Ivanka herself has said that she s a daughter, not a surrogate, and it s been hard for women to condemn her for supporting her father because it s hard to be objective about family members.
However, increasing numbers of women see Ivanka as representative of a culture that demeans women to the point where it s okay to harass and assault them.Cosmopolitan also spoke to several other women.
One said her revulsion at seeing Ivanka s name inside a shoe was a visceral response, because her attacker used almost the exact methods Trump spoke of in his tape.Another woman threw out some pumps from Ivanka s line, and refused to shop at stores that carried the brand, when it came to her wedding.
My wedding is a day of love.
I m not going to wear clothes that represent hate, she said.Those who are busy defending Trump don t really seem to know or care what this revelation has done to women all over the country.
Perhaps worse, especially for women, is that Ivanka has actually defended her father s vile treatment of women: He recognizes it was crude language.
He was embarrassed that he said those things, and he apologized.
That s not language consistent with any conversation I ve ever had with him, or any conversation I ve ever overheard, so it was a bit jarring to hear.
I think he was sincere in his apology.
It s hard for women who have been harassed and assaulted to listen to a fellow woman defend the very type of predator that hurt them.
Although Ivanka s brand hasn t yet lost a ton of business, this boycott movement will likely grow as her father makes increasingly disgusting remarks about how he s going to get his revenge on the women accusing him of assault.
That will be particularly true if she continues to openly defend him.Featured image by Joe Scarnici via Getty Images