Donald Trump s mouth gets him into trouble a lot.
There have been endless examples of his inability to curb what he says, which in and of itself means that he is disqualified from the presidency.
There are many right-wingers who are so terrified of Trump that they are backing Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, and while others won t vote for Clinton, they won t vote for Trump, either.Well, now, conservatives have another option: Former CIA operative Evan McMullin.
While he has never held public office, McMullin is certainly a sight better than Trump.
His candidacy, at this late stage of the 2016 race, is most likely just a way to stop Trump; after all, he entered the race far too late to gain any real traction, and Independent bids for the presidency in America always fail spectacularly.
However, thanks to the outrageous nature of Trump s candidacy, McMullin is definitely shaking things up.Appearing on ABC s This Week, McMullin had quite a few choice words for Trump.
He said: He s not a credible candidate.
It s clear, the numbers, the fact that Donald Trump can t control what he says.
He s never had to control what he said.
Never in life has he had to do that.
It s unrealistic to expect him to do that now.
McMullin went on to make the case for voters to consider him instead of one of the two major party candidates: We need someone who will bring this country together.
I firmly believe that the time has come in this country for a new generation of leadership, and that certainly is not Donald Trump nor [Democratic nominee] Hillary Clinton.
Clearly I disagree with the guy regarding Hillary Clinton.
She is easily the most qualified person to ever run for the office of the presidency.
But McMullin is definitely right about Trump.
There s no way in hell that guy should be anywhere near the nukes.
All McMullin s candidacy would do is help further shift things in Clinton s direction, and that is A-OK with me.Watch McMullin s remarks below:.
@Evan_McMullin: Trump's "never had to control what he says It's unrealistic to expect him to do that now."
https://t.co/HFwtipADk6 This Week (@ThisWeekABC) August 14, 2016Featured image via video screen capture