We can t say enough great things about this dad!
He confronted his child s school board to speak against the school teaching Islam.
We ned more dads like this one to speak up against the very active push to teach Islam in schools.This is disturbing for all parents.
CAIR has taken it upon themselves to claim that they need to fight Islamophobia .
They see this as a problem but we see this as a shady way to have Islam taught in schools .
We see what they re doing but the bleeding heart liberals in San Diego are just passively accepting this propaganda:Janet Levy of American Thinker: If allowed to stand, the SDUSD anti-bullying program geared specifically to the CAIR-identified needs of Muslim students could mark a dangerous departure from treasured constitutional principles and First Amendment protections.
This case warrants serious attention, as it has grave implications for the direction of education and the supremacy of Islam in the nation.
There s a huge problem on so many levels with this.
The most obvious one is that a Christian would be hammered for even remotely trying to push Christianity on the kids.
So why should we accept teaching Islam to our kids?
The answer is WE SHOULDN T!
Dad Christopher Wyrick,Finds Out School Is FORCING #Islam #ReligionBeliefs Down His Son s Throat!His #PATRIOTIC Reply Goes VIRAL!#BanSharia pic.twitter.com/8yKcFvOiRk TRUMP ANOMALY (@ANOMALY1) May 4, 2017WATCH FOR THIS IN YOUR SCHOOL!American Thinker reported: With a decade-long history of yielding to Islamic demands and recent, more alarming submissions, San Diego city schools appear to be ground zero for Islamic indoctrination within American public schools.
The current capitulation includes an Islam-centric curriculum with input and resources from a Muslim Brotherhood-affiliated organization, which raises First Amendment issues as well as serious concerns of favoritism toward Muslims students over students of other faiths.This past week, SDUSD, in collaboration with the Council on American Islam Relations (CAIR), instituted an anti-bullying campaign aimed specifically at protecting Muslims students.
In launching the initiative, SDUSD cited an unsubstantiated study by CAIR claiming that 55% of American Muslim students surveyed in California said they were bullied because of their religion.
The new program will include adding lessons on Islam to the social studies curriculum that emphasize prominent Muslims in history, creating Muslim-only safe spaces, adding Muslim holidays to the school calendar, and providing support and resources for Muslim students during Ramadan.According to Stan Anjan, SDUSD s executive director of family and community engagement, the new program will focus on promoting a positive image of Islam.
Special disciplinary measures will also be created for the so-called bullying of Muslims cited by CAIR.
Instead of detention, the school plans a restorative justice program in which students dialogue with each other about perceived bullying words or actions.
Educational materials on Islam and resource listings will be provided to parents and school personnel as well.CAIR, a radical fundamentalist front group for Hamas, according to terrorism expert Steve Emerson, was named as an unindicted co-conspirator in a Hamas terror-funding case brought by the Justice Department in 2007.
CAIR operatives have repeatedly refused to denounce terrorist groups Hamas and Hezb allah, and several CAIR executives have been successfully prosecuted and incarcerated for terrorist activities.
CAIR was designated as a terrorist group by the UAE in 2014.In 2015, Kevin Beiser and Michael McQuary, two members of the SDUSD Board of Education, issued a formal proclamation in support and recognition of CAIR San Diego, citing ten years of constructive civic engagement in San Diego and Imperial Counties.
They praised the organization s work to promote not only religious and cultural tolerance and understanding but also justice and equality for all who live in the United States.
CAIR director Hanif Mohebi was specifically complimented for his commitment to promoting equitable educational opportunity for all students and preparing them to succeed in a culturally diverse society.
The trustees recognized a community partnership with CAIR in mediating school situations involving discrimination and other behavioral issue[s] and announced CAIR s upcoming tenth anniversary banquet, centered on the theme Strengthening Our Voices, Advancing Together.
CAIR, billing itself as a benign Muslim civil rights organization, has long been at the forefront in pressuring schools and businesses to accommodate the special needs of Muslims.
In 2009, CAIR complained of favoritism when Christian students in Roseville, a Detroit suburb, were given permission slips to attend off-site Bible study classes.
Yet CAIR pushed in 2012 for Dearborn public schools to accommodate Muslim prayer on school grounds and early Friday dismissals for Jumu ah prayers.
The organization has pressured schools to have a say on textbook selection and to feature its own lecturers for school assemblies.
When a public school teacher in Concrete, Washington referenced the Taliban and Hamas while citing examples of the use of violence to bully people, CAIR cried racism and called for a federal investigation, saying the teacher had veered off topic to make anti-Muslim statements.
The school district responded that the teacher s comments were taken out of context.Mohebi, the head of CAIR San Diego, has been pushing the anti-Islamophobia program.
He recently tried to prevent the San Diego Police Department from attending a training session on Islamic terrorism featuring Ryan Mauro, national security analyst for the Clarion Project, a nonprofit dedicated to exposing the dangers of Islamic extremism.
Mohebi said officers would be learning conspiracy theories from Mauro.
Further, Mohebi importuned that no taxpayer dollars should pay for the training and that the SDPD should not confer continuing education credits for attendance.
In a further attempt to control police training on Islam, Mohebi requested the ability to monitor police training to vouch for its accuracy and to provide clarifications throughout the session.CAIR s recent activity and its incursion into the San Diego schools curriculum has been criticized by Charles LiMandri, president and chief counsel of the Freedom of Conscience Defense Fund (FCDF).
LiMandri said the San Diego program represents a wholesale realignment of school curricula and the students learning environment to the recommendations of a religious organization whose stated mission is to enhance the understanding of Islam and empower American Muslims.
The FCDF maintains that the First Amendment prohibits a government agency from attempting to effect a secular goal by the propagation of religious concepts.
LiMandri points out the litigious pitfalls of a curriculum which could easily be construed as a governmental endorsement of a religion.
He also cautions that CAIR s interpretation of the term bullying could extend to the stifling of criticism of Islam, further impinging on First Amendment protections.Citizens for Quality Education San Diego, a non-partisan group of citizens concerned about public education, voiced their opposition to the new Islamic-friendly curriculum and characterized it as an attempt to implement at local schools anti-American sharia law, incompatible with the U.S. Constitution.
The group criticized the blatant singling out of the Muslim religion for special accommodations and demanded that the policy be rescinded.
Despite widespread community outcry, the district seems to be moving ahead.Disturbing!