There s an age old saying: not all Republicans are racist, but all racists are Republicans.
For quite sometime, the GOP has been pushing back on that notion (playing the victim card in the process) while simultaneously putting Steve Cantaloupes for Calves King and Ann Peasant Culture Coulter on their national stages.
And who could forget Rep. Don Wetbacks Young?Then Donald Trump came along, and it was all A-OK in the Republican mainstream.It s been well documented that Trump supporters have higher feelings of racial prejudice than the average Republican and indeed the average American.
We ve seen how they talk about Black Lives Matter.
We ve seen them sucker punch black protesters.
We know Trump got the support of David Duke!But the most telling slice of bigotry comes from a newly released uncensored video from the New York Times, taken deep in the midst of multiple Trump rallies, from Maine to Arizona, that shows just how vile his supporters can be.Screams of Kill them all, the N-word, f*g, and other racial expletives that are used only to dehumanize people echo all around, and no one says a thing about it.And the best part?
They re all committed by white, overweight, uneducated, sunburnt, unkempt hillbillies who probably think Olive Garden is a fancy dinner.
The same people that decry political correctness are so easily offended when their hate and bigotry is put on blast.Trump supporters deny the existence of these people within their camp.
The Republican Party denies it, or blatantly ignores it.
The proof is out, and no one can say it isn t true, because it is.
This is what we are faced with.Filled with anger, hate, violence and rage, these people, unhinged, will be voting for their preferred candidate, who is equally if not more unhinged.
Now people will say But these are his supporters, not Trump himself!
If you ve watched Trump at his rallies before, he closely pays attention to what people are saying in the crowds.
His failure to disavow the racism, sexism, xenophobia and sheer violence at his rallies says everything you need to know.These people are voting in November, are you?Featured image via John Moore/Getty Images