The Republican Party is constantly pushing back against accusations of being a racist institution, despite the fact that they endorse and celebrate racists in their ranks.
Hell, they even tolerate outright white supremacists.
Case in point Representative Steve King ( R-Iowa).
Rep. King has a long history of racially charged remarks, but here lately he has really gone over the top, most recently with a tweet that was nothing more than a white supremacist rant about how American can t keep its population up with, quote, somebody else s babies.
Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny.
We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies.
https://t.co/4nxLipafWO Steve King (@SteveKingIA) March 12, 2017Of course, the backlash from Democrats and other people who aren t complete racist pieces of shit was swift, but many of his Republican colleagues were curiously silent at King s blatant racism.
Well, now, King himself has given us the answer as to why the condemnation didn t come from elected GOP officials as it should: Because, privately, they agree with him.
King said: My colleagues have generally been coming by and patting me on the back.
And a surprising number have said that they pray for me.
And, meaning they support me and they agree with me, a surprising number.
I don t often have members come up and say at the end of the day, I prayed for you this morning.
So they must think I ve got a lot of arrows in my back.
The only Republicans who condemned King s offensive remarks were those who are the children of immigrants themselves.
Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R Florida) tweeted at King:.
@SteveKingIA What exactly do you mean?
Do I qualify as "somebody else's baby?"
#concernedGOPcolleague Carlos Curbelo (@carloslcurbelo) March 13, 2017Rep.
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Florida) also voiced her anger at King via Twitter:Get a clue, @SteveKingIA.
Diversity is our strength.
All looking alike is such a waste.
A travesty.
I wanna be me.
All others are taken.
https://t.co/mx7vgeWPU8 Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (@RosLehtinen) March 13, 2017Both of the aforementioned lawmakers are Cuban-American.
When asked if he had spoken to any of his colleagues about the comments, King apparently lied, saying: They have not approached me.
But I would say of my Republican critics, you should take a look on their position on immigration and see where they stand.
There seems to be a curious coincidence.
When Rep. Curbelo heard what King has said, the remarks were greeted with an eyeroll, and he said: I saw him down at conference, and I said, Hey, I just want to know if I m somebody else s baby.
He said, You should have called me.
I said, I don t have your number.
So he sent me his number and we agreed we d talk whenever we both time to sit down and talk about it.
Hopefully, they can work it out, but something tells me there s absolutely nothing that will curb Steve Kings open white supremacy.
Unfortunately, it seems that the bulk of the GOP agrees.
Then again, we already knew that.Featured image via Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call