Apparently, Bristol Palin thinks musicians have no right to have their own opinions or choices.Ever since Election Day, Donald Trump and his team have been desperately trying to find an A-list artist to perform at his inauguration in January.
But none of them want anything to do with him.In response, Trump posted a pathetic tweet claiming that all A-list celebrities are asking him for tickets to the inauguration and that he s the one rejecting THEM.The so-called A list celebrities are all wanting tixs to the inauguration, but look what they did for Hillary, NOTHING.
I want the PEOPLE!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 23, 2016Trump is making it sound like he s insanely popular among relevant celebrities even though it s been clear for over a month that they despise him.And Sarah Palin s hypocritical abstinence-only crusader daughter decided to throw a temper tantrum about it on her blog.If Donald Trump were still just a regular old billionaire and threw a party at Trump Tower in New York City, celebrities would be lined up out the door, and the most famous artists would be pining for a chance to perform.
But because he will be inaugurated as the next Republican president in January, these same mega-celebrities, who would normally drool over an invitation to sing for the president, want no part of it.Trump s inauguration team sought out some of the world s greatest musicians, but nearly all of them have refused for fear of backlash or to stand against him politically.Isn t it amazing how not cool it is to be conservative in the public eye?
Either Hollywood is that far off or we have so many sissies we have in the spot light too scared to stand for what they believe in!Except Trump isn t just a reality TV star with a big mouth anymore.
Throughout his campaign, he used divisive hateful racist sexist language and called for policies that go completely against what many celebrities stand for.
So by refusing to attend and perform at his inauguration, these celebrities are making it clear that Trump will not be able to use them to claim that they somehow support him.When Trump threw parties in the past, things were different.
He was just a businessman with money.
But now he is threatening everything America stands for.
Also, just because certain celebrities clamored to sing at President Obama s inauguration doesn t mean they ll automatically perform for Trump.
Bristol Palin is acting like Trump is entitled to be adored and admired by everyone and that celebrities should just kiss his ass.But that s not the way the world works.
In fact, Republicans made that clear by the way they have treated President Obama over the last eight years.
The level of disrespect was unbelievable and no conservative crybaby can honestly say that any right-wing celebrity like Ted Nugent would have respectfully performed at one of Obama s inaugurations if they had been asked, especially since they said so many nasty things about the Obama family.But Bristol went even further by listing the names of celebrities who have refused or allegedly refused to perform for Trump.
It appears she wants them to be punished.
The problem is that these top entertainers have fan bases so large that they can easily say good riddance to conservative fans and not see much change in their star power and revenue stream.Speaking of revenue streams, clicking through the rest of Bristol s rant means you will be bombarded with pleas to buy her books and her mommy s books.
Because being grifters is the Palin family profession and there are a lot of gullible conservatives out there to fleece.The bottom line is that Bristol Palin doesn t matter and she never will.
She s just the spoiled brat of America s village idiot who refuses to let go of the fact that America rejected her ignorant unqualified mom eight years ago.Featured image via Inquisitr