Asian Americans are pissed off after Fox News ran a segment featuring racist Bill O Reilly goon Jesse Watters in Chinatown.O Reilly and Watters billed the edition of Watter s World as good fun and and mere political humor.
Watters literally strolled through New York City s Chinatown asking residents if they know karate and if they can take care of North Korea for us.
Let s just say the segment pushed every stereotype about Asian people Watters and O Reilly could think of.
Even O Reilly acknowledged that Fox News would get some letters.Here s the video via YouTube: [ad3media campaign= 1065 ]But they got WAY more than just some letters.
The backlash has been swift and brutal as Asian American organizations from across the country condemn Fox News across the board for being so despicably and blatantly racist.Asian Americans Advancing Justice wrote, It is unconscionable that a news organization would sanction a segment that laughs at a community of people, including Watters ridiculing elderly Chinese Americans who were limited English proficient.
Although The O Reilly Factor may believe this was all in good fun, the segment does nothing more than play up every offensive stereotype of Asian Americans that the community has fought against for decades.
What they should have done is to talk about the important role that Asian Americans can play in this upcoming election.
The Asian American Journalists Association also condemned the segment.
The Asian American Journalists Association (AAJA) is outraged and shocked by the Oct. 3rd segment of Watters World on Fox News The O Reilly Factor.
The segment was billed as a report on Chinese Americans views on the U.S. presidential election but it was rife with racist stereotypes, drew on thoughtless tropes and openly ridiculed Asian Americans It s 2016.
We should be far beyond tired, racist stereotypes and targeting an ethnic group for humiliation and objectification on the basis of their race.
Sadly, Fox News proves it has a long way to go in reporting on communities of color in a respectful and fair manner.
The National Council of Asian Pacific Americans also slammed Fox News.
It is not all in good fun to perpetuate racist stereotypes about Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, and it certainly is not gentle fun to target or mock people who are not fluent in English.
No person should be used as a prop in such a heartless manner.
Asian And Pacific Islander American Vote chimed in as well.Asian and Pacific Islander American Vote (APIAVote) is appalled by the recent Watters World segment on The O Reilly Factor on Chinese American voters.
The segment exploited Asian American stereotypes and exemplified the very issue of China-bashing the report supposedly sought to assess.
This racist and derogatory segment damages Chinese American and Asian American communities and exacerbates negative stereotypes towards our communities.It is clear that the intent of this segment began from a desire to employ racist stereotypes to ridicule and mock Chinese American voters, and was never a serious attempt to understand the preferences or opinions of these voters after the first presidential debate.In addition, the Asian American Legal Defense Fund also had words for Fox via Twitter.This racist mocking of people in NY #Chinatown makes clear that @FoxNews doesn t care about Asian American voters.
https://t.co/uTfr8WkoME AsianAmericanLegal (@aaldef) October 5, 2016The Organization of Chinese Americans had even stronger words.
This segment was grossly offensive to Chinese Americans and all Asian Pacific Americans who have ever had to suffer through the many false equivocations and damaging stereotypes that were mentioned in rapid-fire succession during the show.
By going to the Chinese American community under the auspices of journalism and then unleashing a barrage of offensive stereotypes, Bill O Reilly, Jesse Watters, and Fox News have completely trivialized the community s view on this important election.
At a time when politicians have fallen back on xenophobia to get ahead in the polls, it is disheartening to hear such offensive behavior come out of the media even as our power in the political process grows.
Fox News should immediately disavow the segment and apologize to the Chinese American community for making a mockery of their language, culture, and political views.
Fox News had better offer a sincere apology soon because they clearly pissed off a large segment of the population.
Bill O Reilly and Jesse Watters should be ashamed of themselves and they should be removed from the network.
But that would require that anyone at Fox News has a conscience.Featured Image: Dangerous Minds