If a man s character really is about the company he keeps, then what does it say about Donald Trump that his longtime butler (yes, he has a longtime butler) and newly appointed in house historian for the Trump family just called for President Obama to be killed?Anthony Senecal, who looks like a cross between Batman s butler Alfred and the monopoly guy, took it upon himself to post a lengthy, unhinged rant on Facebook.
It s safe to say he is not a fan of Obama or basic grammar.To all my friends on FB, just a short note to you on our pus headed president !!!!
This character who I refer to as zero (0) should have been taken out by our military and shot as an enemy agent in his first term !!!!!
Instead he still remains in office doing every thing he can to gut the America we all know and love !!!!!
Now comes Donald J Trump to put an end to the corruption in government !!!!
The so called elite, who are nothing but common dog turds from your front lawn are shaking in their boots because there is a new Sheriff coming to town, and the end to their corruption of the American people (YOU) is at hand !!!!
I cannot believe that a common murder is even allowed to run (killery clinton) OR that a commie like bernie is a also allowed to also run !!!!
Come on America put your big boy pants on this election you have a choice GET YOUR ASS OUT AND VOTE !!!!
Thank you !!!
!To summarize, Senecal wanted Obama to be kidnapped by America s own military and executed in his first term.
He seemed to desire similar fates for both Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders as well.And having won a second term, Senecal decided Obama alternatively needed to be hung [sic] for treason.
via FacebookMother Jones couldn t believe that Senecal would actually write that, and called him up to ask if his Facebook account had been hacked.
Instead, he tersely confirmed, I wrote that.
I believe that.
In other posts, Senecal has agreed with his boss that Obama is not a U.S. citizen and routinely only refers to Obama as zero (O) or creative epithets.
When asked why he was calling for Obama to be killed, Trump s close friend replied: I cannot stand the bastard.
I don t believe he s an American citizen.
I think he s a fraudulent piece of crap that was brought in by the Democrats.
Like many of Trump s closest associates, Senecal appears to be a complete and utter lunatic.
These friends are now expecting a place for themselves in Trump s White House.
Trump, who once flatly stated that he would make an exception in his Muslim ban for his Middle Eastern business associates, is clearly the type of guy who doesn t mind throwing a bone to his yes-men.In a gushing piece on Senecal published by the New York Times a few months ago, Trump s butler tellingly referred to Donald as the king.
And this chilling anecdote:Mr. Senecal s admiration for his longtime boss seems to know few limits.
On March 6, as Mr. Trump made his way through the living room on his way to the golf course, Mr. Senecal called out All rise!
to the club members and staff.
They rose.Perhaps Senecal knows better than anybody what Trump wants: Executions of his enemies and the royal treatment.Featured image via Facebook/Mother Jones