This one has to be seen to be believed.Liberals no longer have to accuse Fox News or Ted Cruz of conspiring against America.
All they have to do is let Ann Coulter do it for them.The right-wing Trump supporter sounded off on Cruz and the conservative network in a Twitter post that turned into a rant about Mexicans, black people, and communists.
Fox News & Cruz are American traitors, in league with the liberal establishment, Coulter wrote.
Silent majority must face fire from a unified oligarchy.
Fox News & Cruz are American traitors, in league with the liberal establishment.
Silent majority must face fire from a unified oligarchy.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) March 12, 2016Coulter finally admits that Fox News and Ted Cruz are traitors to this country, but it s strange that she considers them liberals.
Ted Cruz rode the Tea party wave the Senate in 2012 and is as right-wing as they get.
And it s not like Fox News has ever done anything except attack Democrats and the policies they support and let s not forget that Fox News helping create Trump and put him in the position to become the Republican front-runner.But Coulter wasn t done yet.
Soon after that tweet, she proceeded to disparage minorities, even going so far as to call them animals.
And she referred to Cruz as a fascist who took their side.
On the other hand, left-wing fascists violently shut down a peaceful Trump rally last night & Cruz + the entire media took the animals side Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) March 12, 2016Coulter is wrong, of course.
Fascism is a right-wing movement.
Ann really needs to learn her place on the political spectrum.And then she referred to black teens as hoodlums.
I apologize if one of my tweets last night came off as insensitive.
Usually black hoodlum wordfilters to teen.
Don t know what happened.
Conservative Pundit (@DemsRRealRacist) March 12, 2016But at least she got in a good knock on Marco Rubio that we can all appreciate.
Rubio proud no violent protesters at his rallies.
Physics question: Is it possible for 4 people to riot?
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) March 12, 2016Get more popcorn, folks.
Because the GOP civil war just got crazier.Featured image: Twitter