Just when Donald Trump has his biggest opportunity to act in a truly presidential manner, he decides instead that what needs to happen is more attacks on people who no longer matter much to the race.
Speaking for the first time following the RNC, he went on the offensive against both Ted Cruz and John Kasich, and then confirmed rumors that he will try to destroy them in two years, when they re both up for re-election.Laying into Cruz first, he said: You know, [Cruz will] come and endorse over the next little while.He ll because he has no choice.
But I don t want his endorsement.
What difference does it make?
And I don t want his endorsement.
I have such great I don t want his endorsement.
Just Ted, stay home, relax, enjoy yourself.Again, I don t want his endorsement.
If he gives it, I will not accept it.
Just so you understand.
If he gives it I will not accept it.
That s the equivalent of children saying, Fine, I didn t want you to be my friend anyway.
But anybody who doesn t pay King Trump proper homage will find themselves the subject of his wrath, and making sure they pay for their crimes is more important than proving he ll be a good president.
Cruz will no doubt find this about as heartbreaking as a hangnail.That s not all His Royal Trumpiness said, though.
He also blasted Ohio governor John Kasich, another primary opponent of his, for not coming to the RNC at all: See, to me, that s dishonorable.
To me, not signing a pledge is dishonorable, okay?
It s dishonorable.
Not a nice thing to do.
And I talk this way, because we re all together.
Watch below:As if that s not bad enough, Trump s plans to destroy Kasich and Cruz involve funneling millions of dollars into a super-PAC that works against their re-election bids in 2018, because that s totally more important than running the country.Maybe he thinks Mike Pence is presidential enough for the both of them.Thin-skinned Trump, whose narcissistic tendencies mean he d rather take individual people down even when they no longer matter, will spend his entire presidency getting revenge for every slight imaginable.
Yet another reason that he s ridiculously unqualified to be our president.Featured image by Drew Angerer/Getty Images