Trump bashes China so much and blames them for American problems so often, that if he wasn t such a racist you could arguably say it s the central theme of his presidential campaign.
With that in mind, you have to wonder if Trump has some kind of multiple personality disorder.
On one hand, he completely savages them with rhetoric every chance he gets.
On the other, practically every aspect of his business is dependent on them to survive.As if it wasn t embarrassing enough for him to be busted on live TV for producing his overpriced and gaudy clothing in China, now it turns out that the crown jewel of his empire that being real estate development is also dependent on Chinese money to survive.A Trump-branded luxury apartment building called Trump Bay Street is being built in New Jersey.
The project is receiving substantial funds from Chinese investors.
Bloomberg reported that the investors were sold on the idea via a Sopranos style video campaign filmed from a moving car with the Work Up This Morning theme song from the show playing in the background.
I didn t know the Sopranos were so big in China.If the fact he pandered out to Chinese investors wasn t hypocritical enough, this next part really takes the cake.The project was also funded to the tune of $50 million by a controversial visa program that essentially sells legal US residency for immigrants who can front a huge wad of cash.
The program is called EB-5, and it allows foreigners who invest at least $500,000 in an American project that will create at least 10 jobs to receive a 2-year visa.The program is intensely popular as a capital source for real estate developers and has ballooned from 5 visas in 2005 to 10,692 in 2014.
Approximately 1,200 Chinese millionaires essentially bought a visa while millions of regular immigrants wait patiently to come here legally.The EB-5 program has come under a lot of fire as well, for its ability to be easily exploited by unsavory individuals.In addition to reaching wealthy foreign investors, the program has become a magnet for those seeking to sidestep the scrutiny of the traditional immigration process.
In one case, immigration officials pushed through a visa application from Chinese investor in a Las Vegas hotel project despite an internal review that found the investor had previously been turned back at the border, and much of his visa application had likely been fabricated, immigration records show.A Feb. 1, 2013 Homeland Security internal review obtained by ABC News also lays out in stark detail the breadth of the troubles afflicting some of the roughly 600 so-called regional centers private sector entities certified by Homeland Security to recruit foreign investors for specific business ventures that will qualify for EB-5 visas.
The document summarizes 41 investigations, some open and some now closed, into allegations ranging from espionage to fraud to drug trafficking involving investors in various EB-5 investment projects.Source: GawkerTrump has been pissing and moaning about China for literally years now and explained how he will mercilessly beat them up in the name of America if elected president.
Meanwhile, he s literally receiving a government handout from them, via a shady visa program that sells a spot in the U.S. for an obscene amount of money.I guess the question is, can he even afford to be tough on China, or will it bankrupt him?Featured image via YouTube