For some reason, the Trump campaign is utterly clueless about the alt-right movement and what it stands for.
Trump himself regularly retweets stuff from those deplorable (oops, we said it) excuses for human beings and then brushes it off, if he even says anything at all.
He even enthusiastically tweeted an image of himself as Pepe the Frog, a mascot for the Neo-Nazis, which is bad enough given that Trump keeps saying he ll work for all Americans.One of his top advisers, Roger Stone, now, is saying he s proud to walk alongside Trump as a symbol for the Neo-Nazi movement while he s protesting Hillary s basket of deplorables comment aimed at half of Trump s followers.The irony is strong in this one.Stone thinks he s going to turn the word deplorables around the way that President Obama turned Obamacare from something derogatory into something with his signature on it.
He will make this backfire on Hillary, because of course.
It s his own idea that s backfiring though all he s done is prove that an awful lot of Trump s supporters are really deplorable people.Image via TwitterPepe the Frog has been around for awhile, to be sure.
It recently became unacceptable, however, as the Neo-Nazis began working towards claiming Pepe as a racist, white nationalist symbol.So now Pepe represents what he was always supposed to represent, and he s in a likeness of Donald Trump.
Roger Stone has an image co-opted from The Expendables, showing Trump as a Neo-Nazi mascot, that he s put on social media.And he s probably amazingly proud of his ingenious idea.This isn t the first time Trump s been depicted as Pepe.
In 2015, Trump retweeted a different image of himself as Pepe standing in front of an American flag, and behind a podium.
The alt-right worked to associate their mascot with Trump because they believe that Trump represents them.
And who wouldn t?
The toxic waste fountain on the front of Trump s face spouts everything they want to hear.
@codyave: @drudgereport @BreitbartNews @Writeintrump You Can t Stump the Trump https://t.co/0xITB7XeJV pic.twitter.com/iF6S05se2w Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 13, 2015The sheer hypocrisy involved in promoting Trump as anything dealing with white nationalist groups while whining about Hillary insulting half of Trump s voters is just absurd.
White nationalists, who make up an awful lot of the alt-right, are far more hateful and discriminating than Hillary ever could be.The truth is that these are people who think that immigration equals white genocide.
Some on the alt-right hate women and everything to do with women.
A lot of them think that some races are inherently more stupid than others, and deserve to be treated as such.
These are people who are as anti-Semitic as Adolf Hitler.In short, they re deplorable people, and Stone is busy complaining that Hillary called them what they are while directly associating Trump with them.
Any reasonable campaign and any reasonable adviser would find a different way to make that backfire on Hillary the Trump camp is too entrenched with the alt-right and too full of itself to realize what they ve actually done, though.Featured image via screen capture from Roger Stone s tweet