After being fired from the Trump campaign, Trump s former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski is still spreading hate on behalf of his former boss.
This time, when asked about why Trump had virtually no African-Americans at a rally where he was talking about African-Americans, Lewandowski answered that it would be too dangerous to have African-Americans in the crowd.
As a campaign manager, wouldn t you want your candidate saying some of these things directly to the people he s supposedly addressing?
Anderson Cooper asked.
You know what s amazing to me, is no one remembers Donald Trump went to go have a rally in Chicago at the university, responded Lewandoski.
And do you remember what happened?
It was so chaotic, and it was so out of control, Secret Service and the Chicago Police Department told him you could not get in and out of that facility safely, and that rally was canceled.
And you showed the footage many times of the individuals who attended that rally.
Donald Trump had that rally booked, Lewandowski said.
That is a black community.
He went to the heart of Chicago to go and give a speech to the University of Chicago in a campus, which is predominantly African-American, to make that argument.
And you know what happened?
The campus was overrun, and it was not a safe environment, he said.Source: The HillThe rally Lewandowski was speaking of occurred in Chicago in March or rather, it didn t occur in Chicago in March because it was shut down over protests.
The largely African-American protesters objected to the violence that has been occurring at Trump rallies, but I guess it s okay if white people are violent.Here s the video:Trump, who has a zero percent approval rating with African-Americans, is trying to appear less racist.
Lewandowski isn t helping, but to be fair, neither is Trump.
His African-American outreach has been nothing but empty, insulting attempts at pandering.
It was Trump, not Lewandowski, who appeared on Bill O Reilly to say that he d give Chicago police carte blanche to do whatever it takes to stop black crime.Perhaps Trump should focus on the crimes that are taking place right under his nose, whether that be the violence at his rallies or the alleged crimes taking place right in his offices.Featured image via video screen capture.