We ve inserted our thoughts and a few tweets throughout this article.
Our comments can be found in bold red type.Let s start with Trump s Twitter response to Mr. Kahn s passionate speech denouncing Trump at Hillary s coronation.
I don t think too many Americans can argue with this:I was viciously attacked by Mr. Khan at the Democratic Convention.
Am I not allowed to respond?
Hillary voted for the Iraq war, not me!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 31, 2016Khizr Khan, the bereaved father of fallen soldier Capt.
Humayun Khan who attacked Donald Trump last week in a speech at the Democratic National Convention, told CNN s Jim Acosta Sunday morning that terror has nothing to do with Islam.
Here is Khan s full quote (emphasis added):https://youtu.be/BPwRRUw2XWoIn addition to this, there was in the speech that my good wife asked me to refrain from saying, I wanted to say we reject all violence.
We are faithful, patriotic, undivided loyalty to this country.
We reject all terrorism.
She asked me not to say that because that was not the occasion for such a statement.Well, if you really believed that and you had an audience of millions who were listening to your impassioned pleas, why didn t you just say it?
Americans have been begging for Muslims to denounce the violence committed in the name of Islam against innocent Americans.
He had the chance, but it was more important that he unfairly bash Trump for holding an opinion about how to best stop terrorism than speak out against radical ISLAM.This Twitter user @socalmike_SD makes a good point:His son was killed by radical Muslims..ppl Trump doesn't want here in the US..How is that shameful?
Ridiculous https://t.co/BhaeZPuN99 Michael (@socalmike_SD) July 31, 2016Khan also asked Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to repudiate Trump, calling it a moral obligation and warning that failing to do so would be a burden on their souls that history would not forgive.Don t worry Khan.
If you re looking for an ally in bringing immigrants to America, you ve found the right guy in Paul Ryan.
While you re at it, why don t you ask Ryan how the UN can properly vet immigrants coming from Muslim majority nations who hate us In previous remarks, Trump had acknowledged the positive contributions of most Muslims, while focusing on the need to fight radical Islamic terror.
In his speech after the Islamic terror attack on a gay nightclub last month in Orlando, for example, Trump said: We have Muslim communities in this country that are great, and we have to form that partnership.
Last Thursday, Khan caused a sensation at the convention when he spoke alongside his wife, challenging Trump s proposed ban on Muslim immigration, saying: Have you even read the U.S. Constitution?
You have sacrificed nothing and no one.
By the way Khan Trump and his children have received death threats and threats of violence.
Trump doesn t have to run for President of the United States.
He s doing it because he loves our country.
Despite what you and the Democrats would like low-information voters to believe, you don t have the corner on loving America Khan made no mention of radical Islam, or terror.
His claim that the Constitution bars Trump s ban on Muslim immigration has also been disputed.Here are a few Muslims views on a temporary Muslim ban in America.
Pay close attention to the last man of three who are being interviewed:Via: Breitbart News