Hillary Clinton was reportedly drunk at a rally in New Jersey according to several sources but you be the judge: Rumors of Hillary Clinton s chronic alcohol use have been swirling around the politician for years, but have proven especially rampant this campaign season with the focus and national debate on the Democrat s lingering health issues.
And for good reason.
Wikileaks recently released an email chain where her aides talked of sobering up the Democratic presidential candidate.An Aug. 2015 email from communications aide Jennifer Palmieri instructs campaign chairman John Podesta to locate and sober Hillary up so that she can return or respond to documents that were emailed to her hours before.
I think you should call her and sober her up some, Palmieri said.The Wikileaks email chain between Palmieri and Podesta shows that Clinton was not reachable throughout the entire afternoon on Aug 8.
Additionally, other emails released by Wikileaks and Judicial Watch indicate Clinton sleeps well into mid afternoon on many days and as secretary of state, overslept and missed key national security meetings and daily briefings.New York Times national reporter Amy Chozick covered the Clinton s vicious primary campaign in 2008 against Barack Obama.
In a 2015 profile for ABC News about Clinton, Chozick said she was surprised how much booze Clinton swilled on the campaign trail.
Chozick said: Hmm.
She likes to drink.
We were on the campaign trail in 2008 and the press thought she was just taking shots to pander to voters in Pennsylvania.
Um, no.
Clinton family insider and campaign manager at the time in 2008, Terry McAuliffe, now governor of Virginia, concurred: She loves to sit, throw em back.
So to me this is nothin new, McAuliffe said.
We all hear about the story that she and John McCain actually had a shot contest, I think in the Ukraine or somewhere around the world.
And she actually beat John McCain in a shot contest.
She s a girl from Illinois who likes to throw em down with the rest of us.
Actually, it was on a congressional tour of Estonia: Read more: True Pundit