In a convenient distraction from Trump s recent $25 million settlement in fraud lawsuits connected to his fake university, virulently homophobic Indiana Governor and future Vice President Mike Pence decided to go see a Broadway show.Naturally, Pence s appearance at Hamilton was not well-received, with the crowd booing him as he entered and the cast taking some time at the end of the show to have a come to Jesus moment with the man who thinks many of them should be electrocuted, imprisoned, or killed.Now to many of Trump s followers who are, shall we say, not exactly fans of Abraham Lincoln, this was the worst thing to ever happen in a theatre in the history of ever.
But to the rest of us, a much-needed message was delivered: that he should be there to represent all Americans, not just the ones he likes.This message to Pence sent the conservative world nosediving into Lake Stupidity, with many of them vowing to boycott the musical (which is sold out until seemingly six generations from now) and one particularly deplorable Trump fan decided to cause a scene that lasted through multiple musical numbers (the cast was praised for acting like he wasn t even there).While Pence himself was not offended by the cast s message, Fox News Jeanine Pirro joins Donald Trump in being irrationally furious about the nontroversy.
What happened in that theater one block from this studio was out-and-out reverse racism and teed-up hate!
Pirro said on her show Saturday, accusing the actors of using a play about our American history as a political bully pulpit an ironic statement given Pence s numerous horrific remarks about women, they gay community, and many other groups of Americans (not to mention that Trump has become one of the most notorious internet trolls in history).Pirro demanded to know why the cast did not lecture Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton, who are not terrible people, for being terrible people when they attended the production.
Last night violates everything that you say that you stand for, she raged.
You re Hamiltonians, you re students of American history.
Why not hip hop about the electoral college or is that the part of the Constitution that you just want to ignore?
Maybe you want to dance about Hamilton, why not dance about that!
Pirro continued as she dissolved into a greater degree of madness than normal.
And I ve got news for you.
Don t lecture this man.
You may know a little about hip hop and dancing around a stage.
I majored in American history and I saw the play Hamilton and I loved it, she said as he rant ended.
But you just took the fun, the enjoyment and the memory of that play right out of me, which might explain why the number one hashtag is that s trending right now is #BoycottHamilton.
Featured image via screengrab