Elizabeth Warren is one of the most popular liberals in the country.
She brought us the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has savagely attacked Wall Street at every opportunity, and her name is floated for VP more than anyone else by liberals desperate to see her in the Oval Office.But now she is an Enemy of the Revolution because she didn t endorse Bernie Sanders which, according to the True Believers, cost Sanders the hotly contested Massachusetts primary.
To forestall the usual whining: Bernie True Believers are not EVERY Bernie supporter.
Most of them are normal, rational people that want Bernie but will vote blue no matter who wins because a Republican president is unthinkable right now.
On the other hand, True Believers are all about purity and would happily watch the country burn so they can sit on their high horse, sneering at the millions of people that dared to not back their perfect candidate.
That their high horse would be burning along with everyone else never seems to occur to them.
But at least their soul is unsullied so who cares?
Got it, #NotAllBernieSupporters, now get over it and move on.After pleas from Bernie supporters for Warren to endorse Sanders went unanswered, angry True Believers swarmed her facebook pages to denounce her:Dennis Flannigan: I m losing all respect for you.You re showing yourself to be just another wave-riding professional politician.That means you re part of the problem.Endorse Bernie now or go away!JoAnne Tyler: I am done with you, U.S.
Senator Elizabeth Warren.
Bernie was our best chance to change things, and you turned your back on him.
I, for one, won t forget.
If you really cared about the values you espouse, you d have endorsed Bernie long ago.
Go to hell.Ricky Cox: I am taking my Like back from this page.
It s easy to talk tough on wanting to fix the problems in this country but when it was time to back the guy trying to do it you stayed quiet before your home state s primary.
Pathetic.
From now on when you give your little talks about fixing the broken system we will all know it is for show.John Michael Sandernista: I m done with U.S.
Senator Elizabeth Warren for not endorsing Bernie.
None of her rhetoric means anything if she won t stand up to Clinton and the DNC.
DONE.
Unfollow.Here s a good one that shows just how unhinged the True Believers are:Drew Phillips: So it turns out you re just like all the other politicians bought off by Wall Street.
You could ve endorsed Bernie before today and made an actual difference in this election but you were too scared.
All that tough talk is nothing without action.
Taking my money and endorsements elsewhere.Elizabeth Warren is possibly the most hated person on Wall Street.
So of COURSE she s been bought off by the banksters because she didn t endorse Sanders.
Makes perfect sense.Every time I post about the True Believers and how very much like the Tea Party sounded as they were getting started, I get chastised for cherry picking just a few random malcontents.
But guess what?
There are literally hundreds upon hundreds of these posts and stop by any pro-Bernie group and you ll find an unending stream of the same vitriol.
It s even worse on the pro-Bernie pages because there s so little push back inside their little bubble.
If they were such a tiny minority, they would be shouted down.
Buuuuuuuuut they re not.The worst part about all of this is that Bernie himself has made it absolutely clear that he d vote for Clinton in a heartbeat before allowing any Republican in the White House.
But that s the problem with True Believers, they stop hearing what the object of their devotion says and instead chase the idealized fantasy while constantly looking for heretics to burn a the stake.
Featured image via video screen capture