This election is already the nastiest one on record in American political history.
The aftermath could end up being the bloodiest if Trump supporters follow through on their threats.
If she s in office, I hope we can start a coup, Trump supporter Dan Bowman declared at a rally earlier this month.
She should be in prison or shot.
That s how I feel about it.
We re going to have a revolution and take them out of office if that s what it takes.
There s going to be a lot of bloodshed.
But that s what it s going to take I would do whatever I can for my country.
Bowman is not alone either.
Many Trump supporters are simply waiting for Trump to give the word on Election Day, like this person who aimed a gun at Hillary while she was on television during the debate.This all stems from Trump s assertion that the election is rigged for Hillary Clinton and that Second Amendment people should do something to stop her.And right-wing radio hosts like Joe Walsh are only throwing gas on the fire.
November 8th, I m voting for Trump, the disgraced former Tea Party lawmaker wrote on Twitter before adding, On November 9th, if Trump loses, I m grabbing my musket.
You in?
On November 8th, I m voting for Trump.On November 9th, if Trump loses, I m grabbing my musket.You in?
Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) October 26, 2016During an interview with CNN on Friday, Walsh claimed that he was merely calling for civil disobedience.
If I wanted people to take up arms, why would I recommend people take up an antique like a musket?
Walsh told Chris Cuomo.
I mean, seriously, in 2016 I want people to go out and find a musket, grab their musket?
That s just silly.
But that doesn t explain why he said everyone should grab their guns if Trump loses.
A musket is, in fact, a gun and definitely implies that people should grab their guns.In fact, Walsh doesn t even care if Trump loses fair and square, he still wants people to revolt against the government with their guns.
If she wins fair and square, then the anger that a lot of Americans have toward our political system and she s part of that we ve got to double down and triple down and do whatever we can to defend our freedom.
That phrase, grab your musket, is a phrase I ve used probably a hundred times in the last two or three years.
Cuomo didn t let Walsh get away with trying to spin his own words, however.
The CNN host reminded Walsh of another tweet he posted in the wake of the killing of police officers in Dallas.
Words matter, context matters, Cuomo pointed out.
You say, This is now war, watch out Obama, watch out Black Lives Matter punks, real America s coming after you.
You only take this one way you take it provocatively.
Trump is the master of this, and you have to now argue whether that s a good thing or a bad thing.
You tell me why it s good.
Walsh then dropped his civil disobedience spin and went straight to talking about grabbing guns and going to war against the federal government, which would be treason.
Look, when I say, grab your musket, man, and let s go to war if Hillary wins, the Republican Party s going to be in our sights.
Because all these people are pissed off again at what we believe, Chris, is a corrupt political system.
Here s the video via Twitter.Former Rep. Joe Walsh: When I said grab your musket if Trump loses, I meant we need to defend our freedom https://t.co/lgJho3xleM CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) October 28, 2016Trump supporters are dangerous threats to public safety and our democracy.
This nation s government needs to be prepared for the strong possibility that right-wing nuts will attempt a bloody coup or commit acts of violence wherever they are in the country in retaliation of a Hillary victory.
That means President Obama should put the military and National Guard on standby.
If these idiots want a war, let s see how they do against professionals who have actually been in one.Featured Image: Screenshot