Hillary Clinton delivered an inspiring speech last night in the wake of the attack on Brussels proving that she is more fit for the presidency than both Ted Cruz and Donald Trump.On Tuesday morning, terrorists attacked Brussels, Belgium with bombings that killed over 30 and injured over a 130 more.The Republican response from Donald Trump and Ted Cruz was predictable and galling.
Both GOP candidates called for discriminating against Muslims as if every Muslim in the world were responsible for the actions of a few extremists.Trump repeated his calls for closing the border and banning Muslims from entering the country.
He also repeated his intention to bring back torture.Cruz called for police to patrol Muslim neighborhoods and called for Americans to stop being politically correct, which is code meaning he wants us to discriminate against Muslims and be bigots toward them.During her victory speech in Arizona on Tuesday night, however, Hillary Clinton fired back at the bigotry of both Republican presidential wannabes.
We live in a complex and dangerous world, and we need a commander-in-chief who can provide leadership that is strong, smart and above all, steady in taking on these threats, Clinton declared.
The last thing we need, my friends, are leaders who incite more fear.
In the face of terror, America doesn t panic.
We don t build walls or turn our backs on our allies.
We can t throw out everything we know about what works and what doesn t and start torturing people.
What Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, and others are suggesting is not only wrong, it s dangerous.
It will not keep us safe.
This is a time for America to lead, not cower.
And she only continued hammering Trump and Cruz, urging Americans to reject bigotry and violence and reaffirm America s commitment to our values of a United States that accepts diversity and is open to everyone.
There s a lot of pessimistic talk.
There s a lot of negativity.
It s as if we aren t Americans.
Nobody can beat us.
They can t beat us anywhere When we see people running for president of the United States who are literally inciting bigotry and violence we ve got to reclaim the promise of America for all our people, every single one of us.
Here s the full speech via YouTube.
The remarks reported here begin at the 5:00 mark.That s how America should respond to fear mongers and bigots and that s why Hillary Clinton is more qualified to be president than Cruz and Trump combined.Featured Image: Instagram