Donald Trump is getting nothing but bad news when it comes to finding performers willing to degrade themselves at his inauguration.Earlier today, internationally renowned vocalist Charlotte Church told Trump that he should not have even bothered asking her to sing at his inauguration because she doesn t perform for tyrants.
@realDonaldTrump Your staff have asked me to sing at your inauguration, a simple Internet search would show I think you re a tyrant.
Bye????
Charlotte Church (@charlottechurch) January 10, 2017Church s tweet drew outrage from Trump supporters but she wasn t the only musician to reject Trump.As it turns out, Trump and his team also invited Moby to DJ at the inauguration.
And Moby responded by laughing hysterically in Trump s face and told him he d only consider on one condition.
And Trump isn t going to like it.
Hahahahaha, I was just asked by a booking agent if I would consider djing at one of the inaugural balls for #trump Hahahahaha, wait, Hahahaha, really?
I guess I d DJ at an inaugural ball if as payment #trump released his tax returns.
I m still laughing, Moby continued.
Hahahaha.
So #trump what do you think, I DJ for you and you release your tax returns?
Here s the full statement via Instagram.Hahahahaha, I was just asked by a booking agent if I would consider djing at one of the inaugural balls for #trump Hahahahaha, wait, Hahahaha, really?
I guess I d DJ at an inaugural ball if as payment #trump released his tax returns.
Also I would probably play public enemy and stockhausen remixes to entertain the republicans.
I m still laughing.
Hahahaha.
So #trump what do you think, I DJ for you and you release your tax returns?A photo posted by moby X X (@moby) on Jan 9, 2017 at 8:52am PSTDonald Trump refused to release his tax returns throughout the presidential campaign, breaking decades of precedent and setting a dangerous new precedent for future presidential contenders.And it s very clear why Trump refused to release his taxes and continues to do so.
When the New York Times obtained a copy of just one year of Trump s tax returns it showed that he wrote off a nearly $1 billion loss that allowed him to avoid paying federal income taxes for nearly 20 years.
So not only is Trump a draft-dodger, he s a tax dodger as well.It s also clear that Moby is not a fan of Trump.
He was a supporter of Hillary Clinton and has been mocking Trump ever since Election Day, including this gem commenting on Trump s cozy relationship with Vladimir Putin.Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahah.A photo posted by moby X X (@moby) on Jan 9, 2017 at 10:39am PSTTrump must be truly desperate if he s seriously asking Moby to perform.Featured image via Instagram