During an appearance on Meet the Press Sunday morning, Republican Senator Tom Cotton (AR) was grilled by the show s host Chuck Todd.
Todd repeatedly asked Cotton to make a case for the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.Spoiler alert Cotton was unable to do explain why he supports Trump, other than the fact that he is not Hillary Clinton.Here s a transcript of the relevant portion of the interview:Chuck Todd: Okay, fine, but you just gave the case against Clinton.
What s the case for Trump?
You just did a whole speech by the way earlier this weekend.
You didn t even mention his name.
You laid out a strong case against her.
But you did not make a case for him.
Make the case for him.Senator Cotton: Donald Trump can ultimately make the case for himself.
But Donald Trump, like most Americans, like most Republicans, believe in protecting America s core national interests.
He believes as do I, as do most Americans, that we aren t yet doing enough to take the fight to the Islamic State.That the intervention in Libya was ill-considered and slapdash at the time.
And we re living with the consequences of it now.
That we have to get tougher when it comes to our intelligence and law enforcement practices to stop Islamic terrorism.
On those matters, our party is largely united.
And I say that we have the vast majority of Americans with us.Chuck Todd: You don t come across as an enthusiastic Trump supporter.
Is that fair?Senator Cotton: Maybe I don t just demonstrate enthusiasm much in life, Chuck, especially in such dangerous times as these.Chuck Todd: No, I understand that.
But it does seem as if you I mean, this is somebody who he is not running on a foreign policy that is anywhere close to what you would like to see.
How do you square that into your support for him?House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republicans have endorsed Trump out of party loyalty.
They have repeatedly made a case for putting the GOP above the United States, as Ryan was recently called out for.
They don t plan on adopting his policies, such as his progressive views on trade or entitlement benefits or his completely insane ideas regarding just about everything else.To put it simply, Cotton can t make a case for Trump for one very good reason there isn t one.You can watch the interview below in full.Featured image from video screenshot