H1B Visas have been the downfall of thousands upon thousands of white-collar American jobs.
Obama is now signing an executive order to bring even more foreign jobs to our shores.
OUTSOURCING AMERICAN JOBS NEEDS TO END!
You might recall that Disney was in hot water for firing American workers and then hiring H1B visa holders.
The backlash was so huge that Disney rehired some American workers.
So now Obama is going all out to destroy the American worker in the name of cheap foreign labor What a jackwagon!
As the nation prepares to ring in the New Year, President Barack Obama is preparing a colossal new executive action that could print-up work permits for a huge number of foreign white-collar graduates every year, above and beyond the levels set by Congress.This executive action, which directly bypasses Congressional lawmakers, is likely to reverberate across the presidential race, as GOP voters look to choose a nominee they believe will most effectively roll back the President s still-expanding agenda.
And it will certainly raise new security concerns as it covers categories of immigration utilized by migrants from the Middle East and nearby regions.President Barack Obama s Department of Homeland Security plans to publish the proposed rule tomorrow, the last day of 2015.The 181-page rule focuses primarily on giving work-permits to foreign college-grads who will compete against Americans for white collar jobs, despite the large number of American graduates now stuck in lower-wage positions and struggling to pay off college debts.
The rule will also make each foreign graduate much cheaper for U.S. employers to hire than many U.S.-born college grads.
Obama has gone the Full Monty to bust the immigration system, says immigration lawyer John Miano.
What is going on is he is effectively giving Green Cards to people on H-1B visas who are unable to get Green Cards due to the [annual] quotas it could be over 100,000.
THE TECH INDUSTRY PUSHES FOR OUTSOURCING:President Obama s White House has pulled a language switcheroo, replacing the immigration terms alien and immigrant with the term Americans-In-Waiting.
The Washington Times reports the White House is using the term to refer to the thousands of spouses of high-skilled H1B visa holders who have been waiting for green cards.The move is a big victory for Silicon Valley employers, who have heavily lobbied presidential administrations for years to increase the number of H1B visas and to allow the spouses of their workers to also work.The rule change could possibly double the number of workers for tech firms looking for skilled, cheaper labor.VIA: BREITBARTVIA: IJREVIEW