On Friday, it was revealed that former Milwaukee Sheriff David Clarke, who was being considered for Homeland Security Secretary in Donald Trump s administration, has an email scandal of his own.In January, there was a brief run-in on a plane between Clarke and fellow passenger Dan Black, who he later had detained by the police for no reason whatsoever, except that maybe his feelings were hurt.
Clarke messaged the police to stop Black after he deplaned, and now, a search warrant has been executed by the FBI to see the exchanges.Clarke is calling it fake news even though copies of the search warrant are on the Internet.
I am UNINTIMIDATED by lib media attempts to smear and discredit me with their FAKE NEWS reports designed to silence me, the former sheriff tweeted.
I will continue to poke them in the eye with a sharp stick and bitch slap these scum bags til they get it.
I have been attacked by better people than them #MAGA I am UNINTIMIDATED by lib media attempts to smear and discredit me with their FAKE NEWS reports designed to silence me.
I will continue to poke them in the eye with a sharp stick and bitch slap these scum bags til they get it.
I have been attacked by better people than them #MAGA pic.twitter.com/XtZW5PdU2b David A. Clarke, Jr. (@SheriffClarke) December 30, 2017He didn t stop there.BREAKING NEWS!
When LYING LIB MEDIA makes up FAKE NEWS to smear me, the ANTIDOTE is go right at them.
Punch them in the nose & MAKE THEM TASTE THEIR OWN BLOOD.
Nothing gets a bully like LYING LIB MEDIA S attention better than to give them a taste of their own blood #neverbackdown pic.twitter.com/T2NY2psHCR David A. Clarke, Jr. (@SheriffClarke) December 30, 2017The internet called him out.This is your local newspaper and that search warrant isn t fake, and just because the chose not to file charges at the time doesn t mean they won t!
Especially if you continue to lie.
Months after decision not to charge Clarke, email search warrant filed https://t.co/zcbyc4Wp5b KeithLeBlanc (@KeithLeBlanc63) December 30, 2017I just hope the rest of the Village People aren t implicated.
Kirk Ketchum (@kirkketchum) December 30, 2017Slaw, baked potatoes, or French fries?
pic.twitter.com/fWfXsZupxy ALT- Immigration (@ALT_uscis) December 30, 2017pic.twitter.com/ymsOBLjfxU Pendulum Swinger (@PendulumSwngr) December 30, 2017you called your police friends to stand up for you when someone made fun of your hat Chris Jackson (@ChrisCJackson) December 30, 2017Is it me, with this masterful pshop of your hat, which I seem to never tire of.
I think it s the steely resolve in your one visible eye pic.twitter.com/dWr5k8ZEZV Chris Mohney (@chrismohney) December 30, 2017Are you indicating with your fingers how many people died in your jail?
I think you re a few fingers short, dipshit Ike Barinholtz (@ikebarinholtz) December 30, 2017ROFL.
Internet tough guy with fake flair.
pic.twitter.com/ulCFddhkdy KellMeCrazy (@Kel_MoonFace) December 30, 2017You re so edgy, buddy.
Mrs. SMH (@MRSSMH2) December 30, 2017Is his break over at Applebees?
Aaron (@feltrrr2) December 30, 2017Are you trying to earn your still relevant badge?
CircusRebel (@CircusDrew) December 30, 2017make sure to hydrate, drink lots of water.
It s rumored that prisoners can be denied water by prison officials.
Robert Klinc (@RobertKlinc1) December 30, 2017Terrill Thomas, the 38-year-old black man who died of thirst in Clarke s Milwaukee County Jail cell this April, was a victim of homicide.
We just thought we should point that out.
It can t be repeated enough.Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images.