CNN s Jim Acosta is not especially well-liked by the White House.
He tells it like it is in harsh, blunt terms, and of course, they don t like that.
The growing feud continued today when Trump gave a supposed press conference after a full weekend of promising a big press conference.
But at a true press conference, reporters are able to ask questions.
Donald Trump wouldn t allow questions at this press conference.
Acosta wanted to ask him about his responses to Charlottesville, because Trump s initial response to it was weak and pathetic, and one in which he wouldn t condemn the Nazis and other white supremacists, and puffed himself up rather than saying something heartfelt and inspirational like a real president would have.Getting no answer to that, Acosta asked him about the lack of a proper presser.
Trump said that they d just had one.
Apparently, in Trumpland, an egotistical speech that barely touches on anything and doesn t allow for questions from reporters qualifies as a press conference simply because the press is there.
Trump s reply to Acosta?
It doesn t bother me at all, but I like real news, not fake news.
You re fake news.
It s absolutely amazing that Trump calls anyone fake news when he s essentially the liar of liars who s spread more than his fair share of fake news.
Acosta knows this, and threw a question at Trump that we ve all wanted to hear in response to the latest fake news accusation.
Watch below:CNN s @Acosta to Trump: Can we ask you more questions?
Trump: I like real news, not fake news.
You re fake news.
https://t.co/m4KiTC6lrK CNN (@CNN) August 14, 2017Trump went into full toddler mode and took his ball and went home without another word.It s all part of a pattern with him if it s good, he claims credit for it and hypes it up, even if he couldn t possibly have had anything to do with it.
If it s bad, it s fake news, fake polls, etc., and it s high time someone confronted him about it.Sometimes, it seems as if Acosta is the only one willing to do so.
But our illegitimate president doesn t like looking bad, let alone doing the right thing.Featured image via video screen capture