Everyone remembers who died at Bowling Green thanks to Kellyanne Conway.
Everyone remembers who died in Atlanta thanks to Sean Spicer.
And the truth is that those of us who didn t die at Bowling Green died in Atlanta.
Or did we?
Donald Trump held a rally in Florida today, where he discussed, or rather, fear-mongered, about terrorism, and referenced yet another completely imaginary terror attack.
This one happened last night in Sweden, supposedly, and it s fairly safe to assume we all died there, too.
You look at what s happening last night in Sweden.
Sweden!
Who would believe this?
Sweden!
They took in large numbers, they re having problems like they never thought possible.
The thing is, there were no terror attacks in Sweden last night.
There was an incident at the Turkish embassy in Sweden on the 15th, but that was specifically against Turkey, possibly by supporters of an organization that has been operating mainly in Turkey for the last 30 years.
And Turkish establishments in Sweden have been having problems like this for years, which makes it unlikely that these people were refugees.
But refugees are what Trump was trying to scare his crowd over with this new fake attack: We ve allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country, and there was no way to vet those people.
There was no documentation, there was no nothing.
BULL.
SHIT.
The vetting process has been explained so many times by so many people now that it s a wonder anybody at all can still lap this liquid baloney up the way they do.Finding news about any terror attacks anywhere on the European continent last night is difficult.
In fact, news about terror attacks last night is coming mostly from India and Pakistan.
Most of that news seems to speculate whether India is behind terror attacks in Pakistan.There are a few stories about terrorism in Israel.
But pretty much nothing from Europe, and certainly nothing from Scandinavia.
Yet Trump went on and on about how we have no way of knowing who s coming into the country by claiming that Sweden is having problems they ve never had before.
It s a truly dark time when someone who calls himself President of the United States has to lie in order to spread the proper amount of fear.And truth be told, fear-mongering is bad enough.
What Trump is doing is a squillion times worse.
Watch his gullible, worshiping audience eat this lie up below:Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images