The authors of the Republican bill that would have caused as many as 24 million people to lose health insurance and bankrupt countless others are reportedly near tears and demoralized following the bill s failure to make it through the house.Guys who wrote this bill are in shock.
A couple darn near tears.
They know how bad this is.
Mike DeBonis (@mikedebonis) March 24, 2017Republicans supporting this bill were looking forward to the massive tax cuts it gave to millionaires and the major slashes to things like Medicaid and Planned Parenthood.
Paul Ryan, the bill s biggest supporter, remarked that he had been dreaming of gutting health care since he was drinking at a keg in college.
So close to that goal, he looked tired and defeated at a press conference held immediately after the bill s implosion.
He admitted that the Affordable Care Act is likely here to stay.Ryan s bedraggled look led to at least one epic joke at his expense:Texas Republican Jodey Arrington was equally crestfallen.The lone Texas Republican freshman, Rep Jodey Arrington, backed the bill and is incredibly demoralized.
Quotes to come Abby Livingston (@TexasTribAbby) March 24, 2017And Rep Mike Conaway decided the most optimistic thing he could say about the day was that he wasn t dead.Rep Mike Conaway is clearly disappointed but does have this reminder: "Any time you're on this side of the dirt, it's a good day."
Abby Livingston (@TexasTribAbby) March 24, 2017Twitter users weren t exactly sympathetic to these heartbroken Republicans.
The bill was a complete mess and would have caused immeasurable harm.
Trump himself seemed to have absolutely no idea what was in the bill and didn t seem to care.
The GOP was poised to pass the bill despite these drawbacks for purely political gamesmanship.
Still obsessed with their irrational hatred of Obama, they even scheduled the vote to be on the 7th anniversary of Obamacare.
@mikedebonis Imagine being moved to tears that your attempt to kill poor people slowly didn't work out.
That's some evil.
Dennis Perkins (@DennisPerkins5) March 24, 2017How exactly does a person become "darn near tears" over failing to *kick people off* health insurance?
@mikedebonis https://t.co/d3qlGp5V2i Eric Kleefeld (@EricKleefeld) March 24, 2017@mikedebonis @wpjenna Beats 24 million people crying over something much more serious.
Questions Raised (@RaisesQuestions) March 24, 2017@mikedebonis @marcburleigh If that is best they can write then they deserve to be in tears.
Atrocious piece of legislation.
Adin of Crimea (@RealCrimea) March 24, 2017For his part, Trump did what comes naturally to him: He threw a tantrum and blamed Democrats.TRUMP tells me in interview this is now the Democrats' fault, and that he anticipates that when Obama "explodes" they will be ready to deal Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) March 24, 2017The man who wrote The Art of the Deal failed while he had a Republican majority in both the House and Senate.
Sad!
Leadership is perhaps the key to getting any job done.
The Art of The Deal Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 21, 2013Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images