Some of America s pretend patriots have taken over the federal building of a wildlife reserve in Oregon.
Over the weekend as the internet and news organizations were abuzz with news of this outrageous and illegal activity, one entity was suspiciously and conspicuously missing from the equation: The federal government.
Yes, you read that right.
At first, the government had absolutely no plans to take action against these people.
Why?
Because they are white Christians.
That really is it.
Look at how, in stark contrast, they treat Black Lives Matter protesters, or think of how this situation would have played out if these people had been brown Muslims instead.Well, finally, the government has decided to do its job.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is now monitoring the situation with the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge occupation by self proclaimed militia members and supposed defenders of the Constitution, which they have clearly not read and understood.
If they had, they would not be doing this at all.The occupation is taking place in Harney County, where the sheriff there, David.
M. Ward, has told his law abiding citizens to avoid the situation.
While the militia members claim to be there defending local ranchers, Ward says that the group s intent is something much more sinister: These men came to Harney County claiming to be part of militia groups supporting local ranchers, when in reality these men had alternative motives, to attempt to overthrow the county and federal government in hopes to spark a movement across the United States.
As per usual with such people, known anti-government extremist Jon Ritzheimer has warned authorities that the group is armed: Yes, there are some people that are armed.
We need to defend our rights.
That s what the Second Amendment is there for, people.
Senator Ron Wyden (D- Oregon), who has been in touch with the local authorities on this ongoing situation, says that the FBI is definitely monitoring things: The FBI is on this every minute.
But based on comments from what we ve heard in the community and what s been reported, we may be in just the early stages of this.
Indeed.
These are right-wing nuts, some of whom have already said that they are prepared to die here.
They won t give up easily.This is nothing more than bona fide domestic terrorism.
Arrest them.
All of them.
They really need to be made to realize that they are not above the law.Americans seem to be so worried about terrorism.
Well, we re growing it right here at home and we aren t doing anything about it.
And that s the problem.Featured image via video screen capture from Raw Story