Political analyst Bakari Sellers appeared on CNN s State of the Union Sunday where he defended Clinton s basket of deplorables statement and explained why he and voters of color are terrified of Trump.Diane Black, a Republican Congresswoman from Tennessee called for both candidates to tone down their name-calling: I think for presidential candidates; they need to get away from this name-calling on both sides.
This is about teaching our children and our grandchildren on how to act.
Of how to have healthy relationship with other people who disagree with you.
Sellers shot back at Black, saying: I don t have much respect for bigots, for misogynists, for xenophobes, he told her.
For him to embrace that at certain points I was backstage, on set, when Jake Tapper asked him multiple times about David Duke, and he embraced that.
He did not repudiate that.
Sellers didn t stop there.
He continued his condemnation of Trump supporters, saying that: There s a certain point when you have to take some leadership and say that is not what this country is built upon.
The people who wear Confederate flag T-shirts at the rallies and say let s make America great again ?
That petrifies me.
It literally petrifies me, because that is not what our country is about.
It s interesting to witness the conservative backlash against Hillary Clinton s deplorables comment.
Clinton s biggest problem with regards to the matter was her apologizing for the comment.
The comment wasn t meant to be an in-depth dissection of Trump s supporters.
At least a significant portion of Trump s supporters could be described as being deplorable, or at least hold deplorable views for that matter.
Keep in mind, Trump has the support of just about every hate group in the United States behind him.Sellers makes his best point during the segment when he says that: Not all Donald Trump supporters are bigots.
Not all of them, by any stretch.
However, they do have to be okay with supporting a bigot.
Sellers commentary is spot on.
Trump has used hateful, vile rhetoric towards just about every political minority in the United States.
He doesn t have a coherent policy proposal in his platform and his supporters do not seem to care.
That makes the idea of having an issues based election impossible to have.You can watch the segment below in full.Featured image from video screenshot