For months Donald Trump and his top staffers have sworn that no one in the campaign had contact with the Russian government while it was in the middle of engaging in a cyber attack against Democrats.
Trump s new Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, even testified under oath that he had not spoke to Russian officials while working on Trump s campaign.And that lie just got exposed.Now high ranking Democrats including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Ranking Member of the House Oversight Committee Elijah Cummings have both called on Sessions to immediately step down.
Pelosi s statement was a scorched earth condemnation of Sessions, Trump, and the entire administration which seems hell-bent on covering up its connections to Russia no matter what.
Jeff Sessions lied under oath during his confirmation hearing before the Senate.
Under penalty of perjury, he told the Senate Judiciary Committee, I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians.
We know that statement is false.Attorney General Sessions has never had the credibility to oversee the FBI investigation of senior Trump officials ties to the Russians.
This is why Democrats have consistently called for Sessions to recuse himself from any oversight of the investigation.Now, after lying under oath about his own communications with the Russians, the Attorney General must resign.
There must be an independent, bipartisan, outside commission to investigate the Trump political, personal, and financial connection to the Russians.
Cummings was equally forceful in calling for Sessions to resign, citing the fact that Michael Flynn, Trump s disgraced former National Security Advisor, had already resigned for a similar offense and Sessions was that much worse because he kept quiet about it even after that scandal.Sessions should have the self-respect to resign, because he may be also be facing a conviction.
At least one former White House ethics lawyer has already stated that he believes what Sessions did could easily send him to prison.Misleading the Senate in sworn testimony about one own contacts with the Russians is a good way to go to jail https://t.co/qH0s6sTMJ9 Richard W. Painter (@RWPUSA) March 2, 2017As Pelosi noted, Sessions credibility was already zero and now it s under water.
In a Trump administration bursting at the seams with corruption, Session has managed to stand out as particularly appalling.
Republicans now need to join with Speaker Pelosi and Rep. Cummings and demand Sessions leave in disgrace.Featured image via Zach Gibson/Getty Image