A woman let it all hang out when she ranted like crazy at Congresswoman Maxine Waters during a protest.
Everything this wonderful woman said is so true!
The black community has been hurt by illegal immigration and Waters is a hateful racist.
All true!
We reported on this protest in Congresswoman Water s district in California (see videos below)Black Trump supporter goes absolutely nuclear on Maxine Waters, accusing the Congresswoman of destroying black communities across the U.S. pic.twitter.com/gLqRm5kMOg Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) June 25, 2017 This woman is awesome!
She screamed out: People are tired with your hate and your racism!
All the jobs went to illegals!
You have destroyed the black community!
You are a black racist!
You hate blacks!
All the jobs went to illegals!
You gave our jobs to illegals!
We want you out!
Maxine Waters destroyed the black community.
She s gotta go!
She s paid taxpayer money to discriminate against American citizens, and we re not going to have it!
She s been in office too long doing NOTHING!
She lied to the black community saying she was going to bring us jobs.
She gave those jobs to illegal criminals!
We want her out!
She s been in office for too long!
She s already showing signs of dementia!
She s a hater!
The video of the woman above is all part of the protest at the Maxine Waters town hall:This is great!
Trump supporters did everything right but ironically were turned away at a Maxine Waters Town Hall because they don t live in her district Well, SHE doesn t live in her district!These Americans are awesome!
They re showing up and protesting Bravo!We know that Waters keeps close tabs on who is in attendance at the town halls A previous report on one of the town halls showed people getting tossed:The video below begins with a Hispanic man telling the videographer to go back to Europe .
He continues n his rant ending with what he must consider a derogatory term PILGRIM!
.
This is California and this is the attitude of many hispanics.
Notice how the t-shirts some of the Hispanics are wearing say, stolen lands .
Maxine Waters represents Inglewood, California where free speech is apparently just for those against President Trump.
Anyone in the audience who is even perceived to be against Waters is yelled at and tossed out.Free speech?
Notice how Maxine Waters claims that those who oppose her must not realize where they are INGLEWOOD!
Isn t she doing exactly what Martin Luther King, Jr. fought against?
She s refusing to allow anyone who disagrees with her to even be in the same room!
The people who were tossed out for absolutely no reason!Watch Maxine lie through her teeth to the people of Inglewood about Trump s tax plan and healthcare bill.
She pulls the class warfare card when describing the tax bill.
Fear mongering is her forte as you ll see in the video below:THE STREET ARTIST SABO plastered these awesome posters all over Inglewood:Impeach Maxine Waters & Impeach Trump signs side by side.
Only one is taken seriously.
pic.twitter.com/B1FJkmIFX2 Corryn Mobley (@Corrynmb) May 14, 2017