Donald Trump thinks he should be president despite bragging about sexually assaulting women by grabbing them by the p*ssy.
But he once fired a woman for saying something far less inflammatory in his boardroom.During the final moments of an episode of Celebrity Apprentice in 2010, Trump listened as professional wrestler, Maria Kanellis, blasted chef Curtis Stone for using her dressing room to take a crap.
The reason why I said you were so arrogant was because you came in our dressing room and you took a crap and left the stench in the room, Kanellis said while seated in the boardroom facing Trump as his son, Donald Jr., looked on.Even though his behavior was completely inappropriate, Stone and Trump focused on Kanellis using the word crap, calling it a little below the belt.
Trump also called her use of the word disgusting and gross before firing her for using locker room talk.
This is my boardroom, it s not a locker room.
Maria, you re fired.
Here s the video via Twitter:Donald Trump in 2010: This is my boardroom.
It's not a locker room.
Maria, you re fired.
\_( )_/ pic.twitter.com/UlsP9Xjg7F The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) October 10, 2016As you can see, this is prime example of Trump s hypocrisy.
Ever since audio of his outrageous remarks about groping women came to light on Friday, Trump and his team have been writing the remarks off as mere locker room talk that should have no bearing on the election.But unlike the celebrities in the boardroom, Donald Trump is trying to gain the highest office in the United States, so his remarks, especially his use of the word p*ssy, should absolutely be held against him.
They reveal his lack of character and how he treats women, whereas saying the word crap is pretty damn harmless in comparison.Donald Trump literally fired Kanellis for saying crap in his own boardroom, but he thinks he should be hired by the American people as the new president, despite using a worse word to describe how he sexually assaults women.
Trump is nothing more than a misogynist who holds women to a standard that he can t follow himself.
Firing a woman for saying a word instead of firing the man who took a shit in her dressing room, uninvited, proves that Trump will not be able to treat women fairly in the White House, and that he would let male employees get away with bad behavior towards them.This is not the kind of person we need leading our country.Featured Image: Ethan Miller/Getty Images