It s no secret that world-renowned political theorist Noam Chomsky does NOT want Donald Trump in the White House, and thinks it s an absolute tragedy that the presumptive Republican nominee has even managed to get as far as he has.In an interview with Art Is Power, the author and MIT professor criticized The Donald for using generalized anger and his racist white supporters fear of becoming a minority to his advantage, knowing full well that it was a strategy that would work in the polls.
Chomsky also likened Trump s hateful rhetoric to Adolf Hitler as he explained Trump s formula for success: So every time Trump makes a nasty comment about whoever, his popularity goes up.
Because it s based on hate, you know, hate and fear.
And it s unfortunately kind of reminiscent of something unpleasant: Germany, not many years ago.
Chomsky pointed out how interesting this year s presidential primaries had been not in a good way and used the business mogul as a prime example.
He s a clown literally, he could be in the circus.
He s getting huge support from people who are angry at everything.
Mostly white males.
Working-class, middle-class, poor white males.
And their wives and traditional families.
They are furious about everything.
In his analysis of Trump s campaign, Chomsky explained that all the disgraced candidate had done was tap into America s nativism.
In the past, Americans had been worried about being replaced by Germans or Irish immigrants.
All Trump did was change the words to make his racist supporters scared of Muslims and Mexican immigrants and he did a great job fear mongering and relentlessly attacking those specific minorities to achieve his goals.You can watch Chomsky rip Trump below:Chomsky has expressed his disgust over the presidential candidate before, when he called the GOP the most dangerous organization in human history , criticizing it for creating the kind of hostile, extremist political environment that would allow a joker like Trump to rise.Featured image via William B. Plowman and Spencer Platt / Getty Images