Jeb Bush just unofficially placed himself on team Democrat Potential GOP presidential candidate Jeb Bush is calling on Congress to confirm attorney general nominee Loretta Lynch, whose confirmation hearings took place in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee in January.
In February, Lynch was voted out of the committee and approved 12-8.
Due to the legislative schedule and fighting over bills already in motion, a full Senate vote on her confirmation has not yet taken place.
More from POLITICO: I think presidents have the right to pick their team, Bush said, according to reports of his stop at the Politics and Pie forum in Concord, New Hampshire, on Thursday night.A Senate fight over a sex-trafficking bill that includes a controversial abortion provision has held up Lynch s nomination for 160 days since Obama announced his choice last Nov. 8, but Minority Leader Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) is threatening to break protocol and force a vote on the Senate floor.
If someone is supportive of the president s policies, whether you agree with them or not, there should be some deference to the executive, Bush told reporters.
It should not always be partisan.
The attorney general isn t supposed to be supportive of the president s policies.
The attorney general is supposed to advise the president on constitutional matters and is responsible for ensuring the balance between the executive and legislative branches in maintained.During her confirmation hearings, Lynch expressed support for President Obama s executive amnesty and argued that anybody who is inside the United States, regardless of how they got here or what their legal status is, has a right to work.
I think the right and obligation to work is one that is shared by everyone in this country regardless of how they came here and certainly if someone is here, regardless of status, I would prefer that they be participating in the work place than not be participating, Lynch said.https://youtu.be/FbjsvEjXLgoSorry Loretta, but we beg to differ: Via: Townhall