Rachel Maddow is angry with her fellow members of the press and with very good reason.
The thing is, everyone has been railing Trump s nutty comments regarding punishing women for exercising their right to choose to end a pregnancy, and rightfully so.
However, the truth is, the whole GOP agrees with Trump, but no one is talking about that.
On the Thursday night edition of her show, Maddow took the rest of the press to task for ignoring the dangerous anti-woman views of almost all politicians on the right.
She began: I don t know if the Beltway media sort of doesn t get this yet, or if they don t feel like reporting on it or if it s uncomfortable, or if it earns you too many enemies from people you want to be sources or friends in the future.
But what we are having right now in terms of the focus of the Republican presidential race and its national media coverage right now is a farce.
She reminded everyone that Ted Cruz and others are simply smart enough not to openly call for something as outrageous as punishment for abortions, and he said so at a Women for Cruz rally.
Maddow continued:Ted Cruz is right, that the anti-abortion movement in general has learned to stop talking about that.
They don t like to talk about that; they like to say that they ll never talk about that.
But it is, if we re being honest here, an unavoidable consequence of what it would mean if they get their way.
Maddow is right, of course.
Cruz has very extreme views on abortion, and has bragged publicly about his so-called right to life stance.
He isn t any less extreme than Trump; in fact, he may be more so, considering that he has said he d go around the Roe v. Wade decision to end abortion in America for good.Maddow s parting warning is one we all need to understand and heed:So, just a note to the national media and to the Beltway media on this subject.
I know everybody s all over Donald Trump on this what will this mean for his campaign?
but covering a story like this does not mean just writing down what people want you to say about them in the terms they want you to use.
Exactly.
The entire Republican Party wants to set women s rights back half a century, but nobody wants to talk about that.
That is a very dangerous game to play, to ignore the facts of their positions and pretend that these other politicians are any better than the circus act that is the Donald Trump campaign.Watch the video below.
Maddow s Trump comments start around the 10:50 mark:Featured image via video screen capture