Morning Joe hosts Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough agreed on Monday with Nancy Pelosi s defense of scandal-ridden Rep. John Conyers.
Look I think it s really important that the words due process have come up in this conversation, not that it s possible in every situation, but in this situation Every situation that we ve covered in the past two months is different, Brzezinski said referring to numerous accusations of sexual misconduct that have been levied against celebrities and politicians.
They all have different dynamics to them, they all have different levels of nasty to them or bad to them.
And they all need to be treated differently.
This one breaks my heart, it really does, Brzezinski said.In a report released last week, Conyers, 88-years-old and the longest currently serving congressman, was accused of settling a previous harassment claim, and further accused by other former staffers of misconduct.
He subsequently stepped down as the ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee.
The congressman denies the allegations.
Michigan Congressman John Conyers has been in the spotlight recently for being a repeat sexual harasser to women he works with.
He even showed up for a meeting in his underwear!
Yikes!Nancy Pelosi defended Conyers on Meet the Press when she called him an icon She went on to say that he deserves due process .
That s pretty ironic when you think of how the left wants to lock up any Republican right away if they re accused of wrongdoing.
Conyers gets a pass because he s an icon ?
This is just more insanity from Pelosi who needs to retire with Conyers..@NancyPelosi: Accused Congressman Conyers is an "icon" in our country.
#MTP pic.twitter.com/4QlKKJTIJP Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) November 26, 2017 SHOWED UP TO A MEETING IN HIS UNDERWEAR The Detroit Free Press reported:A lawyer who formerly worked for U.S. Rep. John Conyers, D-Detroit, and later ran an ethics watchdog group in the nation s capital confirmed for the Free Press on Thursday that Conyers verbally abused her, criticized her appearance and once showed up to a meeting in his underwear.Melanie Sloan, a well-known Washington lawyer who for three years in the 1990s worked as Democratic counsel on the House Judiciary Committee, where Conyers remains the ranking Democrat, told the Detroit Free Press that Conyers constantly berated her, screaming at her and firing her and then rehiring her several times.She said he criticized her for not wearing stockings on at least one occasion.
On another, she said he ordered her backstage from a committee field hearing on crime she had organized in New York City to babysit one of his children.
Sloan made clear that she did not feel she had ever been sexually harassed, but that she felt mistreated by this guy.