House Speaker Paul Ryan sold his soul the day he endorsed Donald Trump to be president of the United States.
It was clear that he was just being a spineless, cowardly weasel when he did so, as he did it under cover of a big policy speech by Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Ever since then, Ryan s relationship with Trump has been frosty at best, and they have never appeared on stage together.During a weekly press briefing, Ryan got the one question everyone has been asking: Why hasn t Donald Trump released his tax returns?
This is especially pressing right now, as Newsweek just printed a damning story that shows that should Donald Trump become president, the Trump Organization s rather dubious web of international ties would endanger the national security of the United States of America.
With that revelation, it is even more imperative than ever that the American electorate sees Trump s tax returns.
Hell, even George W. Bush s ethics lawyer said that these ties are a, quote, serious problem.
Therefore, Ryan finally caved and said Trump s returns need to be made public.
First, he referenced his own releasing of his taxes when he ran for Vice President: I did release my returns.
I ll defer to Donald Trump as to when he thinks the appropriate time to release his returns.
I know he is under audit, and he has an opinion on when to release those and I ll defer to him on that.
He then hedged, though, because he is a coward who is afraid of upsetting Trump s supporters, and said: I released mine.
I think he should release his.
I ll leave it to him when to do it.
No, Speaker Ryan, you need to get forceful with this.
We need the returns NOW.
With all of the shadiness surrounding Trump s business dealings and ties to nefarious characters around the world, this is vital information for the nation and world to know.
Trump is trying to run the clock out on this one, to keep the voting public from knowing just what he gets up to.
Do your job, and DEMAND Trump s tax returns.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images