Donald Trump has decided to make his way down to Mexico on Wednesday for a meeting with President Enrique Pena Nieto.
For obvious reasons, this is a visit that is not being well received by the Mexican people.
Trump s long history of insulting Mexico, its people, and Mexican immigrants in America has their community incensed at his nerve to show his face in Mexico City.
Therefore, former Mexican President Vicente Fox has decided to weigh in on the situation.Appearing on CNN, Fox said: I m sure he s going to be rejected by everybody here in Mexico.
We cannot accept this going on.
And yes, it could be a desperate move.
To me, it is a desperate move on both sides.
Fox went on to say that Trump is not welcome to Mexico, and continued: We don t like him.
We don t want him.
Fox also criticized current President Pena Nieto for entertaining Trump s visit: I think President Pena is taking an enormous political risk by hosting Trump, going on to call Pena Nieto s decision a big mistake.
Fox also straight out apologized for the visit and the president s insistence on going along with it: I really apologize for our president taking this step forward.
After that, Fox turned his attentions to Trump himself, and his many hypocrisies regarding the issues of immigration and trade: How can you believe him when we are hearing right now that he and his wife violated migration laws in the United States?How can he speak about trade war when he s manufacturing all his products for his business outside of the United States?
It s absolutely incongruent, absolutely inconsistent.
Fox then appealed directly to Americans, warning us of Trump s incompetence when it comes to being president: I just cannot envision him sitting on that chair that was the chair of President Washington, President Jefferson, President Kennedy, President Reagan all the great presidents that nation has had.This guy is not up to be a president.
Of course, Trump, unwilling to let any criticism go, actually tried to lie regarding a proposed visit with Vicente Fox.
He lashed out at Fox on Twitter:Former President Vicente Fox, who is railing against my visit to Mexico today, also invited me when he apologized for using the "f bomb."
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 31, 2016Fox fired back, though, setting the record straight:@realDonaldTrump, I invited you to come and apologize to all Mexicans.
Stop lying!
Mexico is not yours to play with, show some respect.
Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) August 31, 2016Fox is likely right.
The Mexican people have every reason to loathe Donald Trump.
Trump, in all his arrogance, likely thinks that this visit with President Pena Nieto will mean concessions and, dare I say it a check for his border wall.
None of that will happen, though, and hopefully Trump returns from Mexico humiliated, as he so richly deserves.Watch video of Fox s comments below:Featured image via Patrick T. Fallon/Getty