For Glen Grays, a 27-year-old New York City postal worker March 17 was not a typical day.
That s because Grays was arrested after criticizing a police officer s driving.Grays was making deliveries in the neighborhood of Crown Heights in Brooklyn when a car almost hit his mail truck.
Grays then did what most drivers would do if they were in the same situation he yelled at the person driving the vehicle for his reckless behavior.What Grays didn t know is that the vehicle was an unmarked police car.
It is at this point that four plainclothes police officers get out of the unmarked police car and begin to harass Grays.
The incident was recorded by passersby on their cell phones.
You can watch the video below.Grays was eventually ticketed with resisting arrest.
He was then handcuffed and put in the back of the unmarked police car where he was taken away.
It is not a crime for someone to voice outrage after almost being struck by a vehicle It is not a crime to state that you re angry at someone who almost hit you.
That is not a crime, Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams said during a press conference on Tuesday.Adams wants the four police officers involved in the arrest to be investigated.
They place handcuffs on an on-duty postal employee delivering the U.S. mail.
If they would do that to him in his postal uniform, they would do it to any person of color in that community.
When the police arrested Grays, they also left his mail truck unattended possibly violating several federal procedures.
Adams thinks that the police should be punished for any violations of federal procedure that may have happened.
I believe there were federal violations.
Number one, leaving that truck unsecured.
Number, two, interrupting the delivery of mail.
There are clear NYPD procedures when you are arresting a federal employee.
We don t know if even those basic procedures were followed.
This the type of police misconduct that leads to the injuries, arrests, and deaths of so many people people of color in particular in the United States every year.Featured image from video screenshot