Sarah Palin is a proud Trump supporter, but you know who isn t?
The father of her previously-unwed-now married abstinence only advocate daughter Bristol s now-legit-in-Republican-Jesus -eyes daughter.
Yes, while Sarah choo-choos around the country riding the Trump Train to Stupidville (with occasional hiatuses to help her precious little snowflake Track with his woman-beating and firearm problems), The Donald has managed to say something so terrible that Dakota Meyer the guy who actually married Bristol Palin, mind you was forced to be the voice of reason.Recently, Trump has spent much of his time attacking the parents of a Gold Star veteran with a shocking amount of success when one considers that his party allegedly supports the troops unconditionally (you know, until they need healthcare or the ability to buy food).
Meyer, who is a genuine war hero whose actions earned him the Medal of Honor (hey, it s no Purple Heart, but at least he didn t just lazily take one from a supporter because it was easier than earning it like some people, Donald).
If @realDonaldTrump wants to be the Commander in Chief, he needs to act like one, Meyer tweeted Tuesday.
And that cant start until he apologizes to the Khans.
If his name wasn t so unfortunately connected to Mrs.
Teen Abstinence Superstar, one might easily forget at this moment that he s a member of Sarah Palin s family.
We d know what Sarah thinks if she didn t spend the last few days b*tching about Hillary Clinton and avoiding the Khan family issue altogether.Unlike Meyer, much of the Right has followed Trump s disgusting example, even calling Khizr Khan an agent of the Muslim Brotherhood perhaps to distract from the fact that he s actually managed to make the Pocket Constitution a bestseller, perhaps because he s a Muslim.
Perhaps both, and any other number of batsh*t crazy reasons.
They ve already jumped to he was holding up the pocket SHARIA Constitution, after all (I wish I was joking).Dakota Meyer once again, the man who was crazy enough to marry Bristol Palin has somehow become the Right s voice of reason.
Allah help us all.Featured image via Twitter/Getty Images (Alex Wong)