If Republicans and Donald Trump really care about our military veterans, they will tell this douchebag to shut the hell up.Ohio GOP Rep. Warren Davidson has outraged the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the House Veterans Affairs Committee by referring to veterans as moochers who are just pretending to be hurt or sick when they show up to get medical care from the VA. Just like workers comp out here s got moochers, I wish that there were no vets that were the same sort of problem on our society, Davidson said during a town hall event on Monday.
But part of the problem is there are some vets that are moochers and they re clogging up the system, and we do as taxpayers want to make sure the VA filters out these folks that are pretenders.
Just like we wish there were no people out there with stolen valor, but that s a problem in the vet community, too.
Davidson, who won a special election to replace John Boehner and is a supporter of Donald Trump, has drawn a shitstorm of criticism ever since.Veterans of Foreign Wars spokesman Joe Davis slammed Davidson for insulting the men and women who have served this country.
Honorably discharged veterans with service-connected wounds, illnesses and injuries, or who are indigent due to circumstances beyond their control, are not moochers, he said in a statement.House Veterans Affairs Committee chairman Jeff Miller said he hopes that Davidson merely misspoke and called upon him to clarify his remarks.And Davidson s remarks are particularly outrageous because Davidson is a veteran himself.But when given the chance to back down, Davidson did the opposite.
Any effort to suggest I have anything other than a soldier s passion for providing our veterans with the care they deserve is dishonest, he said before his spokesman presented four case of VA fraud to somehow prove his claims that veterans are moochers.
The problem is that these cases involve people who pretend to be veterans.
In other words, the people in these cases are NOT veterans.
But Davidson called veterans moochers anyway.It would have been so simple for Davidson to just clarify his remarks, but he didn t because, like Donald Trump, Republicans are incapable of admitting when they are wrong.
So Davidson s insult of veterans stands in the record as a testament to how Republicans really feel about the men and women who fought for our country.Featured image via YouTube