Abigail Disney is an heiress with brass ovaries who will profit from the GOP tax scam bill but isn t into f-cking poor people over.
Ms. Disney penned an op-ed for USA Today in which she rips the GOP a new one because she has always been cognizant of income and wealth inequality.
In other words, she is not Donald Trump, Paul Ryan or Bob Corker.
Or Mitch McConnell.
She is Abigail Disney, dammit.
Since the election of Ronald Reagan, the gap between rich and poor has grown dramatically and trickle down economics has turned out to cause more of a trickle up, she writes.
But nothing has brought the problem of inequality into sharper focus for me than the current proposals by Republicans to overhaul the tax system.
Disney says that this proposal will be burdensome to the middle class while decreasing the responsibility of the wealthy to contribute to the common good.
And then she dropped a truth bomb.
(We like truth bombs.
)Republicans insist this plan will cut taxes for the middle class, but the truth is that any meager savings will be offset by losses elsewhere in deductions no longer allowed, loss of Medicaid and Medicare coverage, and less funding for education, all of which are on the chopping block in order to provide a tax cut for a few very wealthy people like me.
There is even a tax break to private jet owners.
This bill will give me this tax cut while also killing health insurance for over 13 million people, Disney wrote.
It will let me pass over $20 million to my children, tax-free.
And all my friends with private jets?
They get a tax cut too.
With a suffocating education system, a dying infrastructure and a national debt that will be at least $1.5 trillion bigger, that social mobility will be far out of reach for people like you, Disney continued.
But I will be able to stay comfortably right where I am.
Does that strike you as fair?
No, it does not, thankyouverymuch.
But given how this bill was written, I think it s looking a lot like a nightmare from Pirates of the Caribbean, Disney wrote.
Have I made you angry yet?
I really hope I ve made you angry.
You should be.
No one who votes for this tax bill will be voting with your life in mind.
But you will pay for it.
Watch:This Disney heiress is taking a stand against the GOP tax bill even though she s going to benefit from it pic.twitter.com/E5bmcI83mU NowThis (@nowthisnews) December 20, 2017 If democracy is just a bunch of people advocating for their own self-interest instead of the interests of the greater good, then we re not a democracy, we re anarchy, Disney added.
We need to start voting and acting as citizens as though the common good matters more than our own personal well-being.
This isn t tax reform.
It s a heist.Photo by Ralph Orlowski/Getty Images for Burda Media.