Defending Satan is hard.
That s what Kellyanne Conway learned during an appearance on MSNBC on Wednesday morning.With eleven hours to go before the third presidential debate kicks off, host Stephanie Ruhle relentlessly grilled Donald Trump s campaign manager on everything from the Republican nominee s claims that the election is rigged to the sexual assault allegations against him to him inviting President Obama s estranged half-brother to the debate.Ruhle began by asking Conway if she really believes there will be widespread fraud on Election Day.
Conway responded by breaking with her boss.
No, I don t believe that, she said but she went on to suggest that there is a conspiracy to defeat Trump among Clinton and some members of the media.
Specifically, Conway cited James O Keefe and his selectively edited undercover videos as proof of Trump s claims.Ruhle called out Trump for misleading the American people.
Conway tried to spin by pointing to Trump s recent introduction of an ethics plan for government, but Ruhle was skeptical because Trump could have introduced such a plan months ago but is only doing it now.Conway whined about how the media is supposedly ignoring Trump s plans but Ruhle was not having it, noting that while the media has covered Trump s policy plans, he has made it difficult for them to do so by making wild claims and saying offensive things such as his various insults aimed at women, which Ruhle talked about next.Ruhle asked Conway if she is offended by Trump s remark about grabbing women by the pussy.
She acknowledged that she is offended but she also lied by claiming that no one in Trump s campaign has tried to defend or condone his remarks when many of his surrogates have tried to write off his comments as mere locker room talk.
Ruhle then moved on to the sexual allegations against Trump, especially those made by a People magazine contributor.
Trump has repeatedly called her a liar and attacked her but it turns out there are six witnesses who can corroborate her accusations that he groped her and forcibly tried to kiss her.
When there are six people corroborating the People magazine story you still say her word against his?
Ruhle said.
You ve got to look at your kids when you go home at night.
Conway complained that it was fair for Ruhle to say that to her because I get that from a lot of childless people worrying about my kids but Ruhle actually has three kids, whom she says are not allowed to watch Trump speak because she is afraid he will say offensive things about women.Conway countered by claiming that Hillary Clinton has not done anything for women, which again, is a lie.According to Huffington Post,Globally, no candidate has done more for women s rights than Secretary Clinton.
In her time as Secretary of State, she appointed the first-ever Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women s Issues at the State Department; oversaw the creation of the U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security; and introduced the Global Health Initiative (GHI), investing $63 billion to help partner countries provide robust maternal and infant health services.Hillary is also a strong supporter of the Equal Rights Amendment and voted for the Lily Ledbetter Act and Paycheck Fairness Act when she was a United States Senator.She also fought for over-the-counter contraception and expanding Medicaid for family planning services.In short, her record of achievement is long when it comes to women.Conway also bragged about Hillary Clinton not reaching 65 percent support among women, but the fact is that she has a 19-point lead over Trump among women 53-34 in a new CBS poll.
If the election were held today, it would be the largest margin of victory among women in history, even surpassing President Obama s wins in 2008 and 2012.For some reason, Conway also tried to criticize Hillary for hanging out with billionaires like Mark Cuban just because she has their support.
Ruhle was quick to smack Conway down by pointing out that Trump is a billionaire who actually does hang out with billionaires.Conway also took heavy fire from Ruhle after saying that Hillary Clinton isn t an American success story even though she is the first woman in history to be a major party s nominee for president.Here s the video via YouTube.Overall, Conway really took a beating in this interview.
She lied multiple times all while trying to soften Trump s claims, which really undermines them more than anything else.Donald Trump is unfit to be president and, quite frankly, anyone who worked for his campaign should never be able to work in politics or in the media ever again, and that includes Kellyanne Conway.
They have done nothing but poison the democratic process while demonizing the press that is responsible for vetting candidates.
That only weakens our country and it s unforgivable.Featured image via screenshot