The good news: Trump slowly read through his prepared remarks in front of a room full of world leaders and didn t throw up on himself or start a war.
The bad news: He accidentally slipped in something he deliberately tried not to.
Now his aides are saying the president is just really tired.CNN s Jim Acosta noticed that Trump deviated from his prepared remarks to say the phrase Islamic terror.
His advisors had urged him to stick with Islamist extremism because it denotes that the groups committing acts of terror are using the religion of Islam but do not represent it.
This is a crucial point and one that Middle Eastern leaders, understandably, take very seriously.Trump's use of term "Islamic terror" during speech deviated from prepared remarks which read "Islamist."
pic.twitter.com/ISIRVZkmNc Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 21, 2017Despite his teams best efforts, Trump botched it, an oversight they confessed to reporters.It was likely an "oversight" I'm told.
https://t.co/KwMmJ7WPEf Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 21, 2017Asked for clarification, Trump s staff told Acosta that Trump made the mistake because he s exhausted.
He s apparently bone-tired despite this being only his second full day overseas.In keeping with Trump s staff s tradition of treating him like a 4-year-old, the anonymous aide said of Trump: He s just an exhausted guy.
He s tuckered out.News that Trump couldn t handle even two days overseas tickled Hillary Clinton supporters, who had long said that her record-setting amount of travel while working as Secretary of State under Obama made her uniquely qualified to become president.In 2012, her own staff spoke in awe when describing an insane 27,000 mile 19-day journey they were on as part of a diplomatic trip.
Clinton, for her part, joked near the end of it that she could have handled more.One well-traveled Clinton staffer described the France-Afghanistan-Japan-Mongolia-Vietnam-Laos-Cambodia-Egypt-Israel itinerary as especially absurd, even for us.
Despite the mind- and body-numbing time zone hopping, Clinton joked that she was ready for more.
I appreciate being here, I am only sorry that I have to leave, she told reporters on her last stop Monday, in Israel.
By comparison, Trump demanded his own trip be cut in half and promptly became exhausted on the second day.
And you don t need to take his staff s word for it.
Video taken at Trump s speech shows a slouching, frowning Trump.
At times he seems barely awake.I mean seriously The sick irony is that Trump made much of his ugly presidential campaign about falsely smearing Hillary Clinton as sickly and low energy.
Neither smear was accurate.
But like many of Trump s attacks, one gets the sense that he was projecting his own insecurities onto his opponents.How would Hillary Clinton have handled her first overseas trip?
We ll never know, but given her history, it s safe to say she wouldn t complain of needing a nap at the very start.Featured image via NBC News