Virginia Congressman Dave Brat is feeling the heat from his constituents, especially women.
Republicans are moving to repeal Obamacare and his constituents are putting the pressure on him.
Since Obamacare and these issues have come up, the women are in my grill no matter where I go, he told a conservative audience at an event on Saturday.
They come up When is your next town hall?
And believe me, it s not to give positive input.
I had one woman on my Facebook say she was going to get up in my grill, he said.
There s paid protesters paid activists on the far left, not my Democratic friends I go to church with.
They re being paid to go around and raise havoc.
We re getting hammered, Brat added.There is a Facebook page dedicated to the Virginia Republican which uses the hashtag #AskBrat so it doesn t appear that they re paid.
Karen Conley of Henrico County said she called Brat s office recently to express support for the Affordable Care Act, which keeps her family insured.
Nobody is being paid or put up to this by an outside organization, Conley said.
Everybody is putting in their time and effort because they re dissatisfied with the representation.
They feel dismissed, and that their concerns aren t valid because they re not being responded to.
It s not just a partisan issue anymore.
Alsuin Preis, another of Brat s constituents, said many of the people who are trying to meet with the congressman had supported him during his campaign.
This is not about going to a town hall about haranguing Dave Brat or just throwing out jabs, Preis told WTVR-TV.
We want to discuss our concerns.
Brat plans to hold town hall meetings after the first 100 days of the Donald Trump administration.
Over the past couple of weeks my office has been inundated with phone calls, and emails and comments on social media requesting a town hall meeting, and believe me, I fully intend to have plenty of town halls that are open and transparent as soon as our first 100 days agenda is implemented and we come up for a breath of air, Brat wrote on Facebook.Some of Brat s constituents are requesting a town hall meeting before the first 100 days of Trump s alleged presidency.Watch:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Dave Brat meets with District 1 at Hanover Tavern 1/28/17Thoughts?
"When is the next Town Hall meeting?"
is not an accusation, it's a question.
Congressman Dave Brat, your constituents would like to hear from you.
You ran on a platform that you would be more accessible and we could hold you accountable, right?
We would love to hear more about things you talked about in this video.
#AskBratPosted by 7th District Town Hall Meeting on Saturday, January 28, 2017The conservative audience laughed as Brat explained that women are concerned that their health care will be taken away.
Because it s really funny to take away our health care without a viable replacement.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.