Liberal FOX News host, Geraldo Rivera, took to Twitter to express his disgust over the hypocritical left and their selective outrage over sex harassment allegations based on the political party of the accused.Geraldo Rivera asked the left a very good question, Why are so many who profess to be outraged &amp; repulsed by alleged sexual harassment by @realDonaldTrump unmoved by similar allegations vs. @BillClinton?
so offended by alleged conduct in a Moscow hotel room, yet unfazed by admitted conduct in the #OvalOffice ?
Why are so many who profess to be outraged & repulsed by alleged sexual harassment by @realDonaldTrump unmoved by similar allegations vs. @BillClinton ?
so offended by alleged conduct in a Moscow hotel room, yet unfazed by admitted conduct in the #OvalOffice ?
Geraldo Rivera (@GeraldoRivera) November 10, 2017While the media shark-tank surrounded Trump, hoping to prove the ALLEGED sexual harassment charges (Not surprisingly, after Trump won the election, all of the women who accused him of sexual misconduct have gone into hiding) against him were real, they refused to even consider the confessions of multiple women against Bill Clinton and his enabling wife during the campaign.
The real difference, of course, is that the women accusing Bill Clinton of sexual assault, have been screaming from the rooftops for decades about the sexual abuse they endured by the former governor of Arkansas.Rivera brought up another great point in his tweet as it relates to the fake Trump-Russian dossier story that the left has been apoplectic about since the news broke in the liberal media several months ago.
It appears, however, that the left has already forgotten the reason Bill Clinton was impeached after lying to a federal grand jury about having sexual encounters with a 19-year old intern in the Oval Office while serving as our nation s President.Meanwhile, it s also curious how many RINO s in Congress, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, have said that without any investigation or opportunity to prove that any of the allegations of sexual misconduct against 3 minors are untrue, that Republican candidate for US Senate, Judge Roy Moore (AL), should step down.
Does anyone remember telling Hillary to step down because there should never be a geriatric pervert allowed to roam the halls of the White House putting visitors and the staff in potential danger of sexual assault?
For that matter, does anyone remember telling Bill Clinton to step down when he was accused of sexual assault over and over again while he was running for the office of the President of the United States?
The answer is no , there was no such call for either Clinton to step down and give up their political ambitions.This isn t the first time Fox News host Geraldo Rivera, who is a self-described liberal, has spoken out against the hypocrisy of the left.
In February 2017, Rivera resigned from a voluntary position at Yale University after the school decided to change the name of a residential college that honors a slavery supporter.Rivera said Sunday on Twitter that he resigned as an associate fellow of Calhoun College.
He said the position was an honor but intolerant insistence on political correctness is lame.