Donald Trump got his ass handed to him by a Texas treasure.While many, including myself, focused on Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders at the Democratic National Convention on Monday, Eva Longoria delivered a smackdown of Donald Trump we all missed.The actress, who is of Mexican-American heritage, took aim at the Republican nominee for his racist attacks against Latinos, particularly Mexicans, whom Trump called rapists and criminals.
Like many of you, this election is very personal to me, Longoria said during her speech.
I m from a small town in South Texas and if you know your history, Texas used to be part of Mexico.
Now, I m ninth generation American.
My family never crossed a border, the border crossed us.
According to PBS:The Longoria family s roots in Texas run back to a time before Texas even existed.
Lorenzo Longoria, Eva s first ancestor to arrive in the New World, sailed from Spain in 1603.
Through the generations, Lorenzo s descendants moved north to the modern US-Mexico border.
In 1767, Pedro Longoria, Eva s 7th great-grandfather, received almost 4000 acres along the Rio Grande in a land grant from the King of Spain.
This land stayed in the family for over a century, enduring even the influx of Anglo settlers in the aftermath of the Civil War.In short, Eva Longoria s family has been in America far longer than Donald Trump s. His grandfather Frederick Trump immigrated to this country in 1885.
Longoria s family could have retreated south to stay in Mexico if they had wanted to do so.
But they chose to stay in America and that is where their allegiance has stayed ever since.Speaking of Trump, Longoria dedicated the next part of her speech to ripping him a new one for insulting just about everyone.
When Donald Trump calls us criminals and rapists, he s insulting American families.
My father is not a criminal or rapist; in fact, he s a United States veteran.
When Trump cruelly mocked a disabled reporter, he was also mocking my special-needs sister Lisa and many like her.
When he said that a wife who works is a very dangerous thing, he not only insulted me, he insulted my mother who worked as a special-education teacher for 40 years and raised four children while being a wife.
Here s the video via YouTube.That s right.
Donald Trump characterizes a man who fought for this country as a criminal even though he himself dodged the draft during the Vietnam War.
Pathetic.Has anyone else noticed that Donald Trump is getting his ass handed to him on a regular basis by a lot of strong women?
Because if that trend continues it means he s going to have a seriously bad day on Election Day.Featured image via screenshot