Wow.
That s a lot of lying.Apparently, Donald Trump is such a serial liar with a terrible memory that his own attorneys admitted that they always had to meet with him in pairs.According to a deposition released by Buzzfeed, bankruptcy attorney Patrick McGahn testified during the Trump Plaza bankruptcy case that his client lied so much that the firm made it a policy that a second attorney, identified as George Miller, had to be present as a corroborating witness.
It s always been our practice to make sure that two people are present, and we don t have a problem of people lying He s an expert at interpreting things.
Let s put it that way, McGahn said,When asked if it was necessary for both of them to meet with Trump, McGahn said that it was.
We tried to do it with Donald always if we could because Donald says certain things and then has a lack of memory.
In other words, the Republican nominee says a lot of bullshit and has a memory like Ten Second Tom in Adam Sandler s 50 First Dates film.Here are images of the documents via Twitter.In depo for Trump Plaza bankruptcy case, Trump s own lawyer testifies they often met with him in pairs because Trump lies so much.
pic.twitter.com/TdEkdf4ZiB southpaw (@nycsouthpaw) October 6, 2016And Twitter users are having a field day with this.
@nycsouthpaw @gmarie55 A sociopath lies incessantly to get their way, is often goal oriented and does so with little concern for others.
Rebecca Yeates (@yeatesgreats) October 6, 2016@nycsouthpaw I mean if you need to bring a corroborating witness to every meeting with YOUR OWN CLIENT hoo boy delrayser (@delrayser) October 6, 2016@nycsouthpaw I know a venture capitalist who has tried to work out deals with Trump.
He says that Trump is a pathological liar.
Dan s Monkey Shack (@Yathoon) October 6, 2016@nycsouthpaw @ddale8 Wow, @realDonaldTrump, even your own lawyers admit you are a habitual liar.
You have no honesty in you, nor integrity.
Harry Meridian (@hmeridian2) October 6, 2016@nycsouthpaw @erinmcnll Seems his brain has as many rooms as his hotels.
Not all of them occupied.
Dr. Alan T (@kinowords) October 6, 2016Donald Trump is totally unfit to be president and this deposition proves it.
Trump will do nothing but lie to the American people and transparency and personal responsibility would be non-existent in his administration.It s time for the American people to end this charade once and for all by electing Hillary Clinton by a landslide.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images