The Wall Street Journal is anything but liberal, and most of its columnists are likewise anything but liberal.
But this not-at-all liberal publication does have writers, reporters and columnists who can see reality, and one sees the reality of Trump s deteriorating mental state to the point where he actually called it out.
Yes, a Wall Street Journal columnist literally went there on the state of Trump s mind.Bret Stephens, the columnist in question, asked Twitter something interesting: When will Republicans acknowledge that the President of the United States is mentally ill?
He then linked to a WSJ story about Trump s latest tantrum, which includes accusing former President Obama of wiretapping him during his campaign.
He likened the activity to both Watergate and McCarthyism, but failed to produce any evidence.
It s illegal for the President of the United States to order wiretaps in fact, the FISA court (which grants or denies warrants for just such surveillance) very likely would not go along with a presidential order to grant a warrant for tapping someone.He also called Obama a bad (or sick) guy, for it:How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process.
This is Nixon/Watergate.
Bad (or sick) guy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Trump quickly drew the ire of Republicans and Democrats alike with that, and many are rightfully calling on him to produce his evidence or shut the fuck up.
Stephens, fed up, was essentially doing the same thing, but he caught a lot of flak for saying Trump is mentally ill without a degree in psychology or evaluating Trump himself.
That perpetuates the stigma against mental illness.Because of that, he later deleted his tweet (but screencaps live forever):The truth is that we do need an answer about Trump s state of mind soon.
How stable is Donald Trump?
His behavior does suggest a serious problem.
There are any number of things that this could be (that may or may not be mental illness), but nobody can address this without knowing what it is.Featured image by Jim Lo Scalzo via Getty Images