Whenever Amy Schumer has aimed to make a feminist statement, she s hit her mark perfectly.
She s back on television for the fourth season of her Comedy Central show Inside Amy Schumer, and she s delivered another spot-on sketch about the GOP s never-ending war on women, and the absurdity of male politicians making personal decisions for women.For the show s premiere, Schumer opened with a hilariously accurate skit about women s healthcare.
During the sketch, Amy is at her OBGYN s office to get her pap smear when she realizes that instead of her gynecologist, she ll be seen by four politicians from a fictitious House Committee on Women s Health.Schumer demands to know where the real doctor is, and one of the congressmen replies with the very logic that has been used by several GOP lawmakers: We re the House Committee on Women s Health!
So I think we have a better idea than a bunch of science-y nerdles.
The four fake congressmen then pull out clipboards and bombard Schumer with a bunch of misogynistic questions about her sex life and vaginal health.
They shame Schumer s sexual history, call her menstruation cycle a lady curse and refer to tampons as blood diapers.
One politician is completely silent during the whole thing, aside from randomly inserting ew as Schumer tells her ill-advised committee about her vagina or period.The conversation with the clueless politicians goes pretty much exactly how actual discussions with Republican lawmakers go when it comes to women s bodies, their health and their human rights.
After getting through all the committee s invasive questions, Schumer finally is ready to get her pap smear.
But as she puts her legs in the stirrups, she finds that she is surrounded by an even larger group of male politicians watching her.
She objects: What?
Wait.
I feel a lot more comfortable with a woman in here.
Aren t there any women on the Women s Health Committee?
Driving Schumer s point home, a congressman giggles and makes the condescending remark, That would be like letting the lions run the zoo!
You can watch the hilarious but true episode below:Inside Amy SchumerSchumer absolutely nailed it by pointing out exactly how ridiculous it is that we have male politicians who are completely clueless and unqualified making legislature on behalf of women s bodies and health.Featured image is a screenshot