THE ARTICLE BELOW makes the Princess Prom seem harmless it s not.
Sharia is creeping into our American way of life every day.
The town of Hamtramck, Michigan is a perfect example of Islam quietly taking over towns across America.
It s really a silent invasion and Americans are just rolling over and letting it happen.A recent article we reported on regarding Sharia in America: MINNEAPOLIS MUSLIM Tries To Enforce Sharia In Neighborhood: People who don t know me would say I m a terrorist And another: TOUGH TEXAS MAYOR Who Fought Back Against Implementation Of Sharia Law In Her City Will Join Trump Team [VIDEO]And another: TEXAS MUSLIMS PRAYING IN METHODIST CHURCH CLAIM: Sharia is just like the Constitution [Video]See our point?
This is creeping into our towns and has already taken over in Hamtramck:In case you haven t heard, this Michigan town just recently became the first town in America to have an all Muslim City Council.
This town went from being a diverse blend of many cultures to being majority Muslim.
Michigan is heading in the direction of being majority Muslim with the next Democrat candidate for governor being Muslim This is why what s happening at this high school is so disturbing We bend over backwards to accommodate Muslims for fear of being called Islamophobic .
All the while, SHARIA is becoming more and more accepted.
Islamic prayer rooms in public schools?
Lessons on Islam in public school?
Hijab Day so the girls can see what it s like to wear a hijab?
Yes, these things and more have been happening in YOUR public schools across America.What may seem like a harmless girls-only prom, is the beginning of the end for some who are aware The Princess Prom is a special prom organized for Hamtramck s high school girls.
Started in 2012, the Princess Prom began as a way for the students be able to attend prom, which many could not due to cultural and religious reasons.
The special prom allows the students to to dress and dance freely among other women.
on May 06, 2017 at 8:00 AM, updated May 08, 2017 at 10:48 AM A Detroit-area high school is holding an all-girls prom to create a comfortable and safe environment for girls who cannot attend the traditional co-ed prom for cultural reasons.That s right.
Boys are not allowed.Five Muslim girls from Hamtramck High School started Princess Prom in 2012 to give girls the opportunity to dress up as they please and dance the night away.Last year, 230 girls showed up to the dance at the PNA Banquet Hall in Hamtramck.
This year, the team expects about 250 in attendance.The event is intended to create a safe space for Muslim girls who normally cover up in hijab to let their hair down in an environment with no boys and no cellphones.Phones are banned to prevent problems with photos being posted to social media.
We re on our phones 24-7 and if you don t have it for a few hours, it s so calming and everybody is having a fun time, said Aisha Khanum, an 18-year-old student at Hamtramck High School who has been on Princess Prom planning committee for three years.The dance offers a separate zone for anyone who needs to use their phone.Like any other prom, the girls show up in extravagant gowns, shiny stilettos and flashy makeup and hair styles, and they are surrounded with food and lively music.This one adds an extra cultural element with henna tattoos, a popular form of body art in parts of the Middle Eastern, North African and South Asia.
The girls work through the year to do fundraising, said Caitlin Drinkard, a school counselor who helps organize the annual event.
They sold walking tacos, T-shirts, flowers on Valentine s Day.
She said the process empowers the girls and allows them to celebrate sisterhood.Read more: mlive