Here s just one of many discussions of assassinating Trump onTwitter: Here s a sweet little girl on Twitter who appears to be Hispanic with a vile anti-Trump message, showing a picture of a bloodied and body-less Trump head that appears to be sitting on a bed:Even this writer, who allegedly works for The Guardian was openly calling for Trump s assassination: Here s a touching story about an 11 year old boy who was beaten by his classmates after he admitted to voting for Trump in a mock-election at school:https://twitter.com/Pamela_Moore13/status/796883706950676480And unbelievably, the media weighs in on the fear that pro-Hillary Americans are feeling right now.That's strange, Harry Reid, because all I've seen over the last 48 hours is Trump supporters being violently attacked.
pic.twitter.com/GDrp9GPtCa Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) November 11, 2016In his victory speech early Wednesday morning, Donald Trump pledged that he will be president for all Americans, and he asked those who did not support him for your guidance and your help so that we can work together and unify our great country.
Here s some guidance right off the bat, Mr. President-elect: Those sentiments will have more force if you immediately and unequivocally repudiate the outpouring of racist, sexist, xenophobic, anti-Semitic and homophobic insults, threats and attacks being associated with your name.
Do this in a personal plea to people who supported your candidacy.
Tell them this is not what you stand for, nor is it what your new administration will tolerate.Explicit expressions of bigotry and hatred by Trump supporters were common throughout the campaign, and they have become even more intense since his election.
On a department-store window in Philadelphia, vandals spray-painted Sieg Heil 2016 and Mr. Trump s name written with a swastika.
In a Minnesota high-school bathroom, vandals scrawled the Trump campaign slogan, Make America Great Again, and next to it, Go back to Africa.
There are many more reports pouring in of verbal and physical harassment of Muslims, Latinos and other members of minorities.
Though not all are verifiable, the atmosphere of intimidation and fear is unquestionably real and will keep growing.
Mr. Trump may not be able to stop it by himself, but he must do everything he can.The problem, of course, is that Mr. Trump s campaign was based on appeals some explicit, some coded to racial and ethnic resentment and division.
His followers heard it starting with his speech declaring his candidacy, warning of Mexican immigrant rapists, continuing to a rally last weekend where he promised to bar all Syrian refugees because they will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities.
These statements emboldened and even encouraged those who have been looking for a license to lash out against immigrants, refugees, minorities and anyone else they find threatening.
They take his victory as vindication of their feelings.Here are paid protesters and anarchists destroying public property and fighting with each other.
Men are openly punching women as other women beg them to stop.
But this is probably Trump s fault.
He should just come out and denounce the hate against him and they ll all go home to their parents basements .right?Smashing an electrical box with a baseball bat while dozens of people stand nearby.The Alt-Left in action.
#TrumpRiot pic.twitter.com/Gx2PWSEWgw Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) November 11, 2016And finally, from the NYT s:As a candidate, Mr. Trump could get away with ignoring racist and sexist abuse by his supporters.
But as the president-elect, he has the moral duty to reject it in the most aggressive terms.
There should be no space in American political discourse for violent or abusive behavior.
And that includes, of course, acts of vandalism and other violence by anti-Trump demonstrators.