Conservatives radio host and all-around terrible, horrible, one-of-the-worst-in-the-world person, Ann Coulter, has long been viewed as the unofficial voice of white supremacists for years, but now that Trump is elected she doesn t think she needs to hide it anymore.The Southern Poverty Law Center reports that Coulter, whom they describe as an infamous far-right attack dog who has spent years attacking the left, attended a Christmas party hosted by white nationalist anti-immigration group VDARE, which published writing that focuses on opposing non-white immigration into the United States, but [the site] has also published the writings of anti-Semites.
Just to give you an idea who these people are and what they represent, the SPLC collected a few of their more notable lines from their collection of racist propaganda: America was defined almost explicitly, sometimes very explicitly as a white nation, for white people, and what that means is that there is virtually no figure, no law, no policy, no event in the history of the old, white America that can survive the transition to the new and non-white version.
Whether we will want to call the new updated version America at all is another question entirely.
Sam Francis, VDARE.com, July 21, 2003 Jewish activity collectively, throughout history, is best understood as an elaborate and highly successful group competitive strategy directed against neighboring peoples and host societies.
The objective has been control of economic resources and political power.
One example: overwhelming Jewish support for non-traditional immigration, which has the effect of weakening America s historic white majority.
Kevin MacDonald, VDARE.com, Nov. 14, 2006 What race realists find most infuriating about the liberalism of the last half century is not just that it has lost its instinctive appreciation for the culture and people of the West but actively, viciously attacks them.
Whites are doing something no other people have ever done in human history.
Our rulers and elites welcome replacement by aliens, they vilify our ancestors and their own, they sacrifice our interests to those of favored minorities, and they treat the entire history of the West as if it were a global plague of rapine and exploitation.
This is a disease that is killing us, and we must fight it head on.
Jared Taylor, VDARE.com, July 4, 2008The cast of cartoonish gasbags in this almost terrifyingly surreal mess includes a guy who once claimed that black people are incapable of sustaining any society, someone who wrote a trilogy (wow, a whole trilogy, huh?)
of anti-Semitic blood libel, and the writings of a deceased prominent white supremacist who has a terrifying final solution to the race problem: If whites wanted to do so, they could dictate a solution to the racial problem tomorrow by curtailing immigration and sealing the border, by imposing adequate fertility controls on nonwhites and encouraging a higher white birth rate, by refusing to be bullied into enduring multiculturalism, affirmative action, civil rights laws and policies; and by refusing to submit to cultural dissolution, inter-racial violence and insults, and the guilt that multiracialists inculcate.
Naturally, since this matches Coulter s rhetoric almost entirely, you can see why she d want to attend their little Christmas shindig, which was hosted by founder Peter Brimelow.
At the event, Coulter gave an interview to VDARE contributor John Derbyshire, who was fired by the National Review after his take on the Trayvon Martin murder:Derbyshire joined VDARE after being fired by the National Review in 2012 for writing a racist screed in the wake of the Trayvon Martin shooting titled, The Talk: Nonblack Version.
The article, presented as a talk from a white parent to their child included lines like, A small cohort of blacks in my experience, around five percent is ferociously hostile to whites and will go to great lengths to inconvenience or harm us.
It also included tips like, If planning a trip to a beach or amusement park at some date, find out whether it is likely to be swamped with blacks on that date.
Coulter once suggested in a tweet that only people with four grandparents born in the United States be allowed to vote.If only people with at least 4 grandparents born in America were voting, Trump would win in a 50-state landslide.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) November 8, 2016In Germany, this was known as the Mischling test, a way to sort pureblood Germans out from Jews.
She also raised eyebrows when she tweeted out a defense of the American Nazi Party while lying about Al Sharpton:Total # of deaths connected to American Nazi Party in last quarter century: ZERO; Total # of deaths connected to Al Sharpton: 9 I know of.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) November 22, 2016Coulter s recent open embrace of the white supremacist movement lines up perfectly with Donald Trump s election.
This is no accident The Donald is terrifying in his ability to give voice to and rile up hate groups, and we can expect many like Coulter to drop the facade and show us who they truly are.Featured image via sFeatured image via NY Magazine