Donald Trump says he wants to be the president for all Americans, but he has put a literal white supremacist steps from the Oval Office, and is busily surrounding himself with bigots of many stripes.
Now, he has picked racist Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions to be his Attorney General.
Sessions is a guy who couldn t even get confirmed as a federal judge by the United States Senate in 1986 because he was too racist.
Well, progressive firebrand and Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren is having none of it, and is demanding that Trump dump Sessions.Senator Warren issues a blistering statement rebuking both Sessions and Trump, which read: Instead of embracing the bigotry that fueled his campaign rallies, I urge President-elect Trump to reverse his apparent decision to nominate Senator Sessions to be Attorney General of the United States.
If he refuses, then it will fall to the Senate to exercise fundamental moral leadership for our nation and all of its people.
Thirty years ago, a different Republican Senate rejected Senator Sessions nomination to a federal judgeship.
In doing so, that Senate affirmed that there can be no compromise with racism; no negotiation with hate.
Today, a new Republican Senate must decide whether self-interest and political cowardice will prevent them from once again doing what is right.
The heart of this statement is what is important; after all, we know that Trump has not the moral character to realize why picking Sessions, white nationalist Steve Bannon, or any of the other appalling people in his inner circle to fill out his administration is such a huge problem.
Therefore, it will be up to the Senate to do their jobs and to deny Sessions his confirmation.
Unfortunately, Bannon s appointment is all in Trump s hands, so he s in the White House for the long haul.
However, Sessions is a different story.
Therefore, the Senators who are elected to represent ALL of the people need to do their jobs and reject the bigots Trump is busily nominating.I know that Donald Trump values loyalty above all else that goes back to the undeniable fact that he has serious authoritarian tendencies.
Sessions has been loyal, and this job is his reward.
However, one of the most important jobs of the Attorney General is to enforce civil rights laws and to protect minorities.
Therefore, Sessions would be an absolute threat to minorities in that role.
Senate no matter your party affiliation do your jobs and follow in the footsteps of your honorable predecessors, and refuse to confirm Jeff Sessions as the top law enforcement officer of the United States.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images