The lowest point in Jeb Bush s political career has to be the heartbreaking case of Terry Schiavo.
Terry was pronounced brain-dead in 1990 after her husband Michael found her unconscious in their Florida home.
Terry s parents, holding on for hope, refused to allow her to be removed from life support.A long and grueling legal battle ensued, with the courts eventually siding with Michael, on advice from doctors who confirmed that Terry was, in all sentient manner, gone and not coming back.
It was time to let Terry go.In stepped Jeb Bush, then governor of Florida, and his all life is sacred political crusade to save a woman who had been gone for 15 years and was only alive through autonomic function and a breathing tube.
Jeb took the case back to court, had legislation passed and even signed an executive order to keep Terry Schiavo s body functioning, denying her husband the closure he so desperately deserved.In the end, Terry was finally allowed to rest, despite the best efforts of pro-life Jeb Bush and the conservative right, who believe all life is sacred, except for the 21 people executed in Florida s death chamber under his watch.Now, 26 years after Michael Schiavo lived what would be anyone s worst nightmare, Jeb Bush s Right to Rise Super PAC is releasing a new campaign ad that spotlight s the tragedy of Terry Schiavo by using her image as they talk about protecting life.
Michael is not happy.
In an interview with Politico, Schiavo said that he found the ad disgusting, adding that it sounds like a last-ditch effort to get the right-wing constituents.
How right he is.
Bush, long considered the favorite to win the GOP nomination, has faltered in the polls, especially with the conservative base who favor lunatic Ted Cruz and sociopath Donald Trump.
Jeb Bush s political aspirations, however, don t make using a family s tragedy OK.Schiavo added: Using his disgraceful intervention in our family s private trauma to advance his political career shows that he has learned nothing.
He s proud of the fact that he used the machinery of government to keep a person alive through extraordinary artificial means contrary to the orders of the court that were based on the court s determination, made over six years of litigation, that doing so would be against her wishes.
What the campaign video shows is that if he ever got his hands on the power of government again, he would do the same thing again, maybe next time to your family.
Extremely wise words from a man who has seen first hand what a Jeb Bush can do if given any kind of power.Watch the despicable ad below:Featured image by Gage Skidmore