Donald Trump s Education Secretary found out how hated she is on Friday.Betsy DeVos bought her way onto Trump s Cabinet earlier this month after a long confirmation battle.
DeVos nearly lost in the Senate and it took a tie-breaking vote from Mike Pence to secure her confirmation.
Of course, DeVos is only in her position today because she gave millions of dollars to sitting Republican senators.Her nomination was hotly contested because she wants to destroy the public education system in favor of religious schools.
It also didn t help that she supports an organization that thinks children should be able to work in mines and thinks guns belong in schools to defend against bears.Seriously.Anyway, when DeVos attempted to visit a pubic school in Washington DC on Friday she was met by protesters who refused to let her in the door.
The shamed her and ordered her to leave.
She does not represent anything that they stand for!
one protester said.
Keep giving money to Senate and buying your way into the position, said another.
You should be so proud of yourself!
Rather than keep trying, DeVos ran away, got in a vehicle and drove off as protesters continued yelling their disapproval.Here s the video via Twitter.WATCH: Sec.
Betsy DeVos physically blocked by protesters from entering DC school turned away and left.
Video: @SweeneyABC pic.twitter.com/RAycuKEVgm ABC 7 News WJLA (@ABC7News) February 10, 2017According to Huffington Post,Sitting Republican senators have received $115,000 from Betsy DeVos herself, and more than $950,000 from the full DeVos clan since 1980.
In the past two election cycles alone, her family has donated $8.3 million to Republican Party super PACs.Furthermore, DeVos had openly admitted that she and her family have spent millions of dollars to buy influence and said she expects something in return.
I have decided to stop taking offense at the suggestion that we are buying influence, she once wrote.
Now I simply concede the point.
They are right.
We do expect something in return.
And that is why she is now Secretary of Education and why millions of parents across the country are pissed off.
They should not only block her from entering schools, they should block her from entering the Education Department.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images