If we had a real President who wasn t spending all of his time acting as the behind-the-scenes leader of the Black Lives Matter movement, encouraging his members to keep up the fight, this nightmare would not be happening A Kansas City, Kansas police captain has been shot and reported killed Tuesday afternoon.According to police, officers responded to a shots fired call at 1:33 p.m. at Second and Edgerton.The caller said multiple people were shooting at him from a vehicle.
Officers arrived at the scene at 1:37 p.m., and the suspects fled from the vehicle.
An officer took one person into custody.
As Melton pursued the other suspects and made contact with one of them at 1:57 p.m., multiple shots were fired, and Melton was hit.Melton was taken to a hospital at 2:22 p.m. and was pronounced dead at 2:55 p.m.Authorities said he was wearing a bullet-resistant vest.
KCTV5Police continue to search for the other suspects.
Via: KSHBUPDATE: Police are searching the area for others who were involved.
One person is in custody.Police have blocked off 18th Street north of Parallel until 24th Street in their search for suspects.Police swarmed the area with dozens of officers, some with rifles.
Several police were taking cover behind cars at 16th and Quindaro by 2:30 p.m. A woman at a house there came out of a home with her hands up.
Several officers were kneeling down in the street with their guns drawn toward the home.
It was unknown what connection the house has to the shooting.The woman who came out walked up to an officer who was holding a ballistic shield.
She stood and talked with the officers.
Then she walked away from the officers about 10 feet away toward the home and appeared to be yelling to someone in the house.
She told police an 8-year-old and 3-year-old in the home.About 45 minutes later, two small children came out of the house and went to the woman.
Police moved them out of the way.Next door to the house, just to the south side of Quindaro just east of 16th Street, is a vacant lot.
A dozen officers were clustered at the first house next to the lot.
Officers were still crouched behind car in front of the and there were officers stationed at building to the west of the house.About 3:08, a SWAT team approached the house behind ballistic shields.
They entered the house.
About 3:34 p.m. the officers left the house without anyone.
A car was towed from the scene.Read more here: KansasCity.com