Widely hailed as the most beautiful girl in the world, 10-year-old Kristina Pimenova is no ordinary child, not by any measure of the word.
She has already appeared in photographs by heavyweights in the modeling industry such as Vogue Italia, Dolce & Gabbana, Robert Cavalli, Armani, and others.
She also just landed a lucrative contract by the ultra-prestigious agency LA Models, and will be relocating to Los Angeles to further her modeling career at a faster pace than probably any child ever has before.On Instagram Kristina has over 1.2 million followers, and on Facebook she s fast approaching 4 million.
But, with success, comes consequences.
Already Kristina is being objectified by grown men claiming among other things, that they ll be waiting for her.
Considering her tagline is Remember beauty is inside, it doesn t appear everyone is that deserving.Last year her mother was accused of posting provocative and sexualized photos of little Kristina, but her mother Glikeriya Pimenova says such accusations are baseless.
If anything, people were paedophiles if they think her photos made her look like a babe.
We d have to agree with her.
It s not uncommon to go to a swimming pool and see little girls swimming in their bathing suits, or wearing things that little girls simply wear.
This is just another example of men accusing beautiful women of being at fault, merely because they find them attractive.It s pretty sick and it s this type of double standard that men have that really needs to be called out especially because this is a child.
Kristina is only ten-years-old and already getting the kind of attention normally reserved for adult women, and it s only going to get worse from here.
That s why society needs to be aware of it, and men need to know it s not okay.
Let a 10-year-old girl be a kid.
Be aware of your inner prejudices that are prone to attack or vilify simply because of your own inner issues, not theirs.#kristinapimenovaA photo posted by Kristina Pimenova (@kristinapimenova2005) on Jun 7, 2015 at 7:35pm PDTPic via Instagram.Pic via InstagramKristina is now represented by @lamodels and @newyorkmodels A photo posted by Kristina Pimenova (@kristinapimenova2005) on Feb 3, 2016 at 10:24am PST#portosbakery we love this place A photo posted by Kristina Pimenova (@kristinapimenova2005) on Nov 25, 2015 at 4:09pm PSTWhile we will admit, adults need to be careful of what images they upload of their children, it s not her fault she s beautiful.Featured image from Instagram.