Hours after a gunman opened fire on Republican Congressmen during their baseball practice session, the partisan rancor began.
Although we don t know motive yet, the shooter was a Bernie voter.
He was also a psychopathic killer.While the shooter, who s been identified as James T. Hodgkinson, 66, of Illinois, died shortly after, it s not just one party that s receiving the wrath of unhappy voters.
Democrats have been receiving threats all day, even on their personal phones.Multiple Democratic representatives said during a members-only security briefing that they had received calls after the shooting saying, You guys are next, California Rep. Nanette Diaz Barrag n told BuzzFeed News.According to Barrag n, more than one of her Democratic colleagues said during the briefing that they had received a similar call and other threats on their personal phones following the shooting.
Barrag n said she did not receive one herself, and would not name those who did, citing their safety.One of the calls went to a member who was not on the [Democratic baseball] team, she said, and other Democratic members expressed concern that they were getting calls saying, You Democrats, you Democrats.
Overall, there has been an uptick in threats to Democrats recently.
Even House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said she has received threats.
Rep. Al Green (D-TX) said he s received threats over his plans to impeach Donald Trump.Buzzfeed s article quotes several people who have received threats.While voters on both sides are going to continue to point fingers, it s clear that we have a problem in this country and it s bigger than guns.
Anger, whether it emanates from Donald Trump s partisan and often violent rhetoric, from popular culture, or from the fact that people are feeling left behind by our leaders, is real.
While those in Congress might be feeling a bit more unified today following these tragic events, the country is not.
Congress can help, though.
Republicans and Democrats can start working toward the betterment of the country rather than toward destroying the other party.