New York City Officer Matthew Langone sure does love his Instagram account.
It is also the reason he is now facing an investigation.While off duty, Langone moonlights as a producer of pro-cop merchandise.
There would be nothing wrong with this, except for one little fact: the merchandise blatantly advocates for police violence against members of the community.
In fact, at least one t-shirt is the very definition of fascism.The latest shirt from the Langone collection boasts zip tie wrist cuffs shaped like a heart, with the slogan, I [heart] protesters.
The OT in protesters is in blue, clearly promoting the widely popular police narrative that they rake in the bucks from all the overtime they get policing the ever-increasing number of protests.
Keegan Stephan, an activist against police brutality, discovered the photos on Langone s Instagram account and uploaded them to twitter.
Here is the image:Officer Langone of the @NYPD103Pct doesn't think much of free speech, except of course as "OT."
pic.twitter.com/SGODDv8Nwh Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) January 12, 2016If you think that s bad, you ain t seen nothing yet.
Suspecting more horrible content lay within the confines of Langone s Instagram, Stephan kept looking.
He found it to be full of horrible memes and derogatory language directed at the very people this cop is sworn to serve and protect.
Here are just a few:In fact, his whole instagram account is pretty unbecoming of an officer, imo, @NYPD103Pct.
https://t.co/gABdz1zpHj pic.twitter.com/xM1myPSziZ Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) January 12, 2016To be clear, this appears to be an active duty cop w/the @NYPD103Pct posting this filth: https://t.co/gABdz1zpHj pic.twitter.com/zq9bSlGfNB Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) January 12, 2016It s the last meme, in which Langone refers to community members as hoodrats, that got the attention of Rory Lancman, of the Queens City Council.
Lancman called on the 103rd precinct, at which Langone works as an active duty officer, for an investigation.
Lancman said of the posts: I m deeply disturbed by the reprehensible Instagram posts of a police officer in the 103rd Precinct, which covers a significant portion of my district.
It s completely unacceptable for someone who has sworn to protect our city to post messages advocating violence and referring to community members as hood rats.
Such comments erode public confidence in our police and undermine our efforts to improve police-community relations.
I urge the NYPD to take immediate disciplinary action and make it clear that such behavior will not be tolerated.
But of course, the Blue wall of silence is always more important, than, you know, keeping the community safe from a cop with fantasies of fascism and violence and who clearly has nothing but contempt for the people who live there.
The cops at the precinct only had this to say: We want to make sure that the posts are his.
How many fake Instagram and Twitter pages are out there?
Someone may have been putting this out in his name.
How convenient.
Even more insidious is that they have now blocked Keegan Stephan from following their precinct on Twitter.
Stephan posted the proof:Wow, way to deal with the problem, @NYPD103Pct.
pic.twitter.com/Vtugh5V76i Keegan Stephan (@KeeganNYC) January 12, 2016I think, after this, it is safe to say that their investigation, will just be another in a long line of countless cases where they investigate themselves and determine that there was no wrongdoing.Featured image via screen capture from Raw Story