Donald Trump has been touting himself as a pro-LGBT candidate because he s going to kill Muslims or something, but one thing he has never done is pay more than lip service to the LGBT community.
But he doesn t walk the walk.
He hasn t spoken out against his party s platform, which actively seeks to oppress anyone who is not as straight as Laura Ingraham s arm at the end of her RNC speech.
Donald Trump says he supports the LGBT community, but he does so just as much as he supports African-Americans, Muslims, Jewish people, and anyone who isn t a white Christian who keeps his good set of sheets in the closet.On Friday, Hillary Clinton met privately with the families of Pulse Night Club victims and first responders in Orlando.
There was no press release.
She didn t hype the visit.
She met with the families and held a roundtable discussion with community leaders.Clinton VP speculation is everywhere, except in this solemn Orlando room where she s discussing the Pulse shooting pic.twitter.com/N1S7KeVU4v Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) July 22, 2016 Hillary Clinton meets with families of Pulse nightclub victims and holds round table with Orlando community leaders.
pic.twitter.com/cgKQefXZqy Steve Bousquet (@stevebousquet) July 22, 2016Clinton sits down for conversation with Pulse nightclub victims families and first responders.
pic.twitter.com/aXQxJBWls9 Amy Chozick (@amychozick) July 22, 2016 Per an aide, Clinton met privately with friends and family of the victims of the Pulse Nightclub shooting.
Event starting now.
Tamara Keith (@tamarakeithNPR) July 22, 2016Clinton then visited the Pulse Nightclub to pay her respects to victims, even apparently delaying her announcement of her Vice Presidential pick to do so.
An NBC political reporter says that her staff was told to wait to learn of her decision until an undisclosed time.
Clinton s BK HQ staff went into 3:00 meeting expecting to hear VP pick, but told will have to wait until undisclosed time, per source.
Alex Seitz-Wald (@aseitzwald) July 22, 2016Here are some photos from her visit.
Hillary Clinton is now at Orlando s Pulse nightclub, where she ll pay her respects and meet with first responders Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) July 22, 2016Clinton speaking to first responders at Pulse nightclub memorial in Orlando.
Laid white roses at the memorial.
pic.twitter.com/ozmhAClfVW Tamara Keith (@tamarakeithNPR) July 22, 2016 Clinton at Pulse with a bouquet of white roses.
No words to describe seeing the tributes to victims here.
pic.twitter.com/gBREfqV0fY Ruby Cramer (@rubycramer) July 22, 2016Clinton outside Pulse in Orlando pic.twitter.com/jWcu5azhLD Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) July 22, 2016 Clinton stands with first responders, Mayor Dyer and Senator Nelson pic.twitter.com/OJhGj1HkUq Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) July 22, 2016Hillary Clinton is paying respects at the Pulse nightclub memorial in Orlando pic.twitter.com/zF6fw8sw6D Monica Alba (@albamonica) July 22, 2016Why hasn t Clinton visited until now?
Buzzfeed reports that Orlando commissioner Patty Sheehan tearfully thanked Clinton for not politicizing the visit, and for waiting until they as a community were ready for such a visit.
She was waiting for the right time.
I want to thank you for not politicizing this, and for waiting until we were ready, Orlando commissioner Patty Sheehan tells HRC tearfully Ruby Cramer (@rubycramer) July 22, 2016This is something you will likely never see from Donald Trump.
He doesn t care about actual, real, live people (unless they are wealthy and/or fit into his very tight accepted demographic groups).
This was a very human moment for Clinton.
You can see that she genuinely cares about the lives that were lost.
It is clear that this visit was about the victims rather than furthering her political career.Remember this moment when you head to the polls.
Do you think Trump would do this?
Do you think he even cares?Featured image via Twitter