If he had been black and the protesters had been white police would have killed him in a second.Tragedy unfolded in Dallas, Texas on Thursday night as snipers killed 5 police officers during a Black Lives Matter rally organized in protest of unwarranted killings of two black men by police in Minnesota and Louisiana.Even more people could have been murdered if Donald Trump fan Michael Strickland had fired his weapon and emptied the extended clip he loaded into it during a Black Lives Matter march earlier that day in Portland, Oregon.As protesters marched, Strickland stood directly in front of them so he could somehow excuse his next action as just being out of fear for his life.
He pulled out his gun and pointed it at the protesters at the head of the march and they quickly took cover.
The other protesters farther away, however, didn t know this was going on so they continued marching toward Strickland.
Back off!
Strickland screamed.
Hit the ground!
the front protesters warned.Ben Kerensa witnessed Strickland s actions and continued marching.
We just wanted him to leave, he said.Kerensa watched as Strickland waved his gun back and forth and even saw him switch his normal capacity magazine for an extended clip.
He swept the crowd a few times with the gun.
I saw him take out the regular clip and slot in an extra-capacity magazine.
I saw him chamber a round.
I feared for my life, that s why I pulled out my gun, Strickland claimed.
But Kerensa says that at no point was Strickland threatened.
The fact is, he put himself directly in front of the protesters with the intent to claim that the protesters continuing to march toward him instead of altering their route constituted a threat to his life.Only after Strickland had lowered his weapon and walked away did police finally bother to show up and arrest him.Here s the video of Strickland being arrested via Twitter:Police came in numbers and just arrested man with gun pic.twitter.com/mT6SuQjnSr Andrew Dymburt (@DymburtNews) July 8, 2016The protesters in Portland were incredibly lucky, but this is the atmosphere Donald Trump has created around the country.
Trump has openly encouraged violence against black people at his rallies and conservatives across the nation hate the Black Lives Matter movement that has only grown in response to police officers killing unarmed black men, many of whom did nothing wrong to justify killing them.Meanwhile, white gunmen like Strickland are able to actually pull out their guns and fire at will without fear of being shot and killed by police.
In fact, it seems like police will go above and beyond the call of duty and display extraordinary patience to make sure a white person is taken alive even if they are killing people and threatening the lives of others, including the police themselves.
That kind of patience is not even remotely shown towards an unarmed black person when police show up.
They re just shot and killed for no reason and that is precisely why there are protests in our streets, and sadly, why five Dallas police officers are dead this morning.
Those officers should not be dead.
And all the unarmed black people who have been unjustly murdered by police should not be dead either.
All of this could have been prevented had police simply treated black people the same way they treat white people.
Just doing that alone would mean more people would be alive today.Featured Image: Screenshot