Elizabeth Warren may not be in the spotlight as often as she used to be, but we assure you she s still there, fighting away.
Anytime she sees something that doesn t quite look right; you can bet she s the last person in a room afraid to speak up about especially when big banks are involved.On Friday, Senator Warren was reading a story like the rest of us mere Earthlings, and was so outraged by it that she took to her Facebook page for a viral call out.
Her target?
Jeb Bush, his super PAC, and Former AIG Chairman Hank Greenberg.The billionaire Republican donor just gave $10 million to the Right to Rise group to keep Jeb from falling out of the race.
It s basically keeping him alive to duel it out just before the nation s first primaries begin.
But that s not the reason for her dissatisfaction.
It turns out; Warren still has a bitter taste in her mouth stemming from the economic collapse of 2008, which saw his company receive a huge bailout from the Bush administration after doing a disservice to the American people.
She doesn t forget these things it seems.Her full post is featured below, but this part of it is the most headline-worthy, without a doubt: I m not sure what s more disgusting: That Jeb Bush is pinning his Presidential hopes on his brother s bailout money, or that bailed-out CEOs are trying to buy elections.
Pic via Facebook.The Wall Street Journal first reported the contribution on Thursday, although he refused to talk about it in an interview with them.
We wonder why.
You feel strongly enough about the man to give him $10 million, but don t want to talk about it?
Strange.Senator Rand Paul also saw the irony in it, as well.
He tweeted out almost a full day before Senator Warren how odd it was for Bush to be accepting money to bail out his campaign, especially when that money came from his brother s bailout money.
Pic via Twitter.Why does anyone seem surprised?
This is just politics as usual.
You scratch my back; I ll scratch yours.
It s worked this way forever.
Heck, it s even legal.
Bush used to work as an advisor getting paid millions from investment banks just shortly after he left the Governor s office in 2007.
It s not like he s expected to do any special favors for all these generous contributions he s receiving from these big banks.
People need to lighten up.
**If you didn t catch the sarcasm in that last part, we promise to do a better job next time.Featured image via screen capture.