Leading presidential candidate and former reality TV star Donald Trump gets angry any time reporters or his political rivals bring up Trump University and the legal problems associated with the enterprise that made him a significant amount of money.
Already Republican super PACs are attacking Trump on the issue.
But here are 4 secrets about Trump University that Democrats are sure to use against him in the fall election, which could quickly deny him the White House.Trump University was actually a series of seminars often organized and held in the lobbies of hotels across the country, preying on people who hoped to duplicate the success Donald Trump claims he has had in the real estate industry.
The school promised regular Joes and Jills they would have access to Trump s unique insights and techniques.In an email to prospective clients, Trump bragged, Seventy-six percent of the world s millionaires made their fortunes in real estate and told people, My father did it, I did it, and now I m ready to teach you how to do it.
Of course, Trump s father did it by reportedly engaging in racist practices while a landlord, and Trump himself started out with a million-dollar loan from his dad and a series of shaky deals built on other people s money, sometimes resulting in bankruptcies.Less than a year after the business launched in 2004, the New York State Department of Education said it was operating an unlicensed educational institution, a violation a state law.
So by 2010, the name was changed to Trump Entrepreneur Initiative.
Trump University is being sued in New York by attorney general Eric T. Schneiderman and in two class action lawsuits in California.In the New York lawsuit, the school has been accused of being a bait and switch operation that relied on totally false advertising.One ad published at least 170 times across the country in 2009, according to Mr. Schneiderman s office, promised that students would learn from Donald Trump s handpicked instructors, and that participants would have access to Trump s real estate secrets.
But an investigation by Mr. Schneiderman s office found that Mr. Trump had little to do with picking instructors or developing the curriculums for the seminars, which were run largely by people with motivational speaking backgrounds who were compensated based on how many people they persuaded to buy additional seminars.
One of them was a manager at a Buffalo Wild Wings.Here s one of the adsKathleen Meese of Schoharie, N.Y. was caring for her son with Down syndrome attended a Trump University three-day conference at a hotel in Malta, N.Y. and was then hit with a hard sell in which she was told she could make money faster if she signed up for the Gold Elite program which cost $25,000.
She said a Trump University trainer pressured her into putting the costs on her credit card that only had a $30,000 limit who told her I had to find the resources to invest in my future.
In an affidavit in the New York lawsuit against Trump, Meese testified that all that money bought her was a few visits to some rental properties, noting, I was unable to get my refund and am still paying off debts from my Trump tuition.
Trump University students say they were led to believe that at the seminar they would get the opportunity to take a photo with Trump himself, which of course is something a wannabe real estate mogul would love to get a shot at.Instead of a photo with the real-live Trump, they were instead directed to stand next to a cardboard cutout of Trump for a picture.Here is an example of one such photo:I don't know why people say Trump University was a scam: a photo with my cardboard cutout is totally worth $36,000!
pic.twitter.com/LW7q8FZ6Uo Donald J. Trump (@CandidateTrump) February 27, 2016Featured image via SF Gate