While most people have pretty much forgotten that Florida Governor Jeb Bush was actually a Republican presidential candidate not too long ago, it seems that he can t let it go.
After being overshadowed by candidates like Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz and the party s presumptive Republican nominee, Donald Trump, Jeb has come to the surface to let everyone know that it wasn t his fault he lost.On Monday, the younger Bush reminded everyone that just like his big brother, he is also capable of spewing moronic garbage.
In an interview with former Bush press secretary Nicolle Wallace, sore loser Jeb!
made sure to remind Americans that the real reason he didn t win in South Carolina was because of the Pope.In discussing what went wrong in his presidential campaign that prevented him from surpassing the other candidates, Jeb said, The Pope intervening in American politics didn t help.
Wallace was shocked and pointed out You re Catholic, blaming the Pope!
Bush reiterated that he wasn t blaming the Pope but clearly Pope Francis inconvenient mass had cost Jeb everything: No, no.
I m not blaming.
Talking about, basically, open borders at a time with the whole Trump phenomenon was to build a wall and make Mexico pay for it.
he goes to the border for a massive mass, and he had every right to preach the gospel there, I don t think he should be intervening, I don t think he understood he was intervening in our political affairs.
That generated a lot of news and stopped the momentum.
When Wallace asked Jeb to specify just how Pope Francis had helped the media kill his campaign, Jeb explained: The news cycle was dominated by that.
Trump, to his credit, was very smart at exploiting these kind of opportunities.
He s a master at understanding how the media works more than anybody I ve ever seen in politics, kudos for him for kind of creating the environment and then manipulating the environment to his effect.
Jeb s comments are so ridiculous, they might as well have come from Ben Carson.
Not only is Jeb criticizing the Pope, but he s praising Trump, who dissed the Catholic leader.
Jeb is also in an insane amount of denial over the three-way tie for second place, because he seriously thinks that if the Pope hadn t ruined everything, he could have won.
According to statistics, Trump, Rubio and Cruz all had over 22 percent of the vote each.
Jeb lost South Carolina with 7.8 percent.
But I m sure it was because of the Pope.
You can watch Jeb blame the demise of his disastrous campaign on the world s most famous religious leader below:Featured image via Gage Skidmore and Martin Schulz