A tweet caught my eye after exploring all of the hate and violence posted from Charlottesville.
Did you dig deeper and do you know: Who Paid For Helmets, Bus Rentals, Body Armor on both sides in Charlottesville?
Are we missing the elephant in the room?
Is this event being used for political purposes (see VA Gov.
McAuliffe video below) to shut down free speech and to denounce President Trump who has NO CONNECTION to any of these radical groups?
George Soros must be so proud right now What s missing in all of the news reports is that the group that got permission to rally (we don t agree with them but they got permission to rally) was infiltrated by bussed in Black Lives Matter and Antifa thugs who are very violent.
Remember Berkeley?
The rally then became a violent mob Was this the plan by the left when they bussed in hundreds in opposition?
A perfect scenario for the left Something isn t right here George Soros of MoveOn.org was advertising for protesters too:Antifa is paid by DNC funder George Soros but not one Democrat is being asked to condemn them for Charlottesville Jack Posobiec (@JackPosobiec) August 12, 2017The Truth is that Trump supporters and most Americans on both sides reject this violence!
It s being used as a tool to destroy the Trump supporters and Trump!Doesn t matter what evil it is.
Remember the media rule.
Every story must be twisted around so that Donald Trump is the villain.
MARK SIMONE (@MarkSimoneNY) August 12, 2017My feelings were confirmed when Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe waisted no time in denouncing white nationalists but this sounds more like a political stump speech than anything else.
Notice how he didn t denounce BLM or Antifa:I just asked @GovernorVA if he wanted to condemn antifa as well as neo Nazi groups.
He heard.
Refused to answer.
pic.twitter.com/W7vcH4fSI0 Raheem (@RaheemKassam) August 12, 2017MCAULIFFE IS IN FULL POLITICIAN MODE HERE: It s sickening!
I told President Trump that there has got to be a movement in this country to bring people together.
.
@GovernorVA on #Charlottesville protests: I told @POTUS that there has got to be a movement in this country to bring people together.
pic.twitter.com/HUNCmubv4q Fox News (@FoxNews) August 12, 2017