The word crooked doesn t only apply to Hillary.
Sadly, America is finding out that there are very few people in positions of power who we can trust.
Perhaps the reason President Trump has so many loyal supporters is that Americans believe he s the only person in Washington with the courage and ability to actually drain the cesspool of corrupt government agencies in Washington DC Early drafts of former FBI Director James Comey s remarks about former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton s use of a private email server acknowledged that there was evidence she had violated a federal statute prohibiting gross negligence, but that phrase was deleted, according to Sen. Chuck Grassley.Grassley, who chairs the Judiciary Committee, has been investigating the formulation of Comey s controversial July 2016 remarks in which he announced that the FBI would not seek criminal charges following its probe into Clinton s use of a private email server.The Iowa Republican on Monday said the FBI had recently turned over records relating to then-Director Comey s statement.
The FBI included in those documents what Grassley said appears to be a May 2, 2016 draft of Comey s exoneration statement.The draft was written two months before Comey s July 5, 2016 press conference in which he said that he did not believe Clinton had broken any laws even though she had been extremely careless in her handling of sensitive, highly classified material.In the draft in question, Grassley said the Comey statement included the following sentence: There is evidence to support a conclusion that Secretary Clinton, and others, used the private email server in a manner that was grossly negligent with respect to the handling of classified material.
The same draft included the following sentence: Similarly, the sheer volume of information that was properly classified as Secret at the time it was discussed on email (that is, excluding the up classified emails) support an inference that the participants were grossly negligent in their handling of that information.
Despite this reference to gross negligence, Grassley said the same draft statement goes on to determine she should not be prosecuted for a crime.Grassley asked for more details about the documents, including copies of the drafts in their original format and all records relating to discussions about why the edits were made, in a letter sent to FBI Director Christopher Wray Monday.
As you are aware, 18 U.S.C.
793(f) makes the mishandling of classified material through gross negligence a criminal act, Grassley wrote.
Although Director Comey s original version of his statement acknowledged that Secretary Clinton had violated the statute prohibiting gross negligence in the handling of classified information, he nonetheless exonerated her in that early May 2nd draft statement anyway, arguing that this part of the statute should not be enforced.
Grassley said later edits, on or around about June 10 remove those two sentences and include the following sentence instead: Although we did not find clear evidence that Secretary Clinton or her colleagues intended to violate laws governing the handling of classified information, there is evidence they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information.
Comey had the opportunity to charge a woman, who has been accused of breaking the law numerous times, with a crime, and in doing so, would have proved to all of America that nobody, even if their last name is Clinton , is above the law.
Once again, however, Crooked Hillary managed to wriggle off the hook of justice Grassley and Sen. Lindsey Graham, (R., S.C.) said in late August that Comey began drafting a statement rejecting the idea of charging Clinton with a crime over the email issue two months before Clinton was interviewed in the FBI probe.
The senators released partial transcripts of interviews the Judiciary Committee conducted with U.S. officials to back up the statement.For entire story: WFB