The woman pictured above (SEE MORE BELOW) is a serial accuser of sexual harassment against several men.
She gives women a bad name.
Notice that Eric Bolling allegedly did something to harass the woman.Eric billing was NEVER found guilty anything but the whispers were enough to bury him.
He was one of the best anchors on Fox with his bold style.
He supported and defended President Trump throughout the 2016 campaign.
We believe he was a great asset to Fox News and see this as a trend of accusations against men the left wants to see taken down.
This is a great loss for true conservatives and for Fox News.
another reason NOT to watch as the network slides to the left a little more every day Variety reported:Fox News will part ways with host Eric Bolling, a host and contributor whose on-air presence at the 21st Century Fox-owned network had been growing in recent months, after allegations surfaced that he had harassed colleagues there, the network confirmed Friday.
Fox News Channel is canceling The Specialists, and Eric Bolling and Fox have agreed to part ways amicably, the network said in a statement.
We thank Eric for his ten years of service to our loyal viewers and wish him the best of luck.
A Huffington Post report had disclosed allegations that Bolling had sent lewd messages to colleagues via smartphone.Bolling, a former commodities trader and best-selling author, had been a longtime co-host of The Five, and more recently helped launch a new late-afternoon show, The Fox News Specialists.
He also anchors the Fox News program Cashin In.
Fox News intends to keep Bolling s co-hosts, Eboni Williams and Kat Timpf, as contributors.
The show will be replaced at 5 p.m. eastern with an hour of news coverage for the foreseeable future, with rotating anchors holding down the slot.IN CASE YOU DIDN T KNOW: Yesterday, Fox News announced that they were suspending Eric Bolling after accusations that the popular host sent lewd photos to at least three female coworkers two at Fox Business and one at Fox News.
Many believe the accusations against Eric Bolling are just more lies in a series of false sexual misconduct allegations levied against Fox News top personalities, like Bill O Reilly and the now deceased Roger Ailes.
The woman who attempted to smear Fox News host Sean Hannity quickly dropped her accusations when Hannity took off the gloves announced he would fight accuser Debbie Schulssel with some of the finest and toughest lawyers in the country after she accused the Fox News host of sexually propositioning her as allegations of sexual harassment continue to roil the network.Philly.com Suspended Fox News host Eric Bolling s first public accuser is a major left-wing activist who held a protest sign at President Trump s inauguration accusing the president of being a rapist.Caroline Heldman, an Occidental College professor who appeared on Fox News, reportedly filed a sexual harassment complaint just hours before Fox News announced O Reilly s departure, according to People magazine.Now, she is back to accuse Eric Bolling, a major Trump supporter at the network.
Here is Philly.com s report:Hours after Fox News announced it was suspending Bolling, Caroline Heldman, a politics professor at Occidental College and frequent guest on the network from 2008 to 2011, claimed the Fox News host made an unspecified number of unsolicited sexual advances to her.
[Bolling] said he wanted to fly me out to New York for in-studio hits and to have fun.
He asked me to have meals with him on several occasions, but I found excuses not to go, Heldman wrote in a lengthy Facebook post.
Once, he took me up to his office in New York, showed me his baseball jerseys, and in the brief time I was there, let me know that his office was his favorite place to have sex.
Bolling s team is denying the accusations.
Heldman s social media profiles show her to be a staunch left-wing feminist activist.
Big League PoliticsMany brought up #pizzagate in response to my "good people don't vote for rapists" sign at Trump's inauguration.
https://t.co/lTDtBEhhgh pic.twitter.com/T2S8UfIF5O Caroline Heldman (@carolineheldman) June 22, 2017Seriously though, the fact that accuser Caroline Heldman would use a picture of themselves with the pal and high-profile, media whore lawyer Gloria Allred at the top of their Twitter account is pretty interesting.Here is Caroline Heldman s Twitter profile:Social media users attempted to accuse Michelle Fields of being one of the women accusing Bolling of sexual harassment.
She quickly came to Bolling s defense:False.
Im not one of the women in @yashar's story & Eric Bolling was nothing but professional when I worked w/ him.
Pls stop spreading lies https://t.co/Jmi3e3vgiV Michelle Fields (@MichelleFields) August 6, 2017