Our refugee resettlement program needs to bed stopped right now.
We need to rethink and regroup on everything about it.
The cost is HUGE but security is a big issue too.
Here s one example :Two al Qaeda terrorists who had killed American soldiers were able to enter the country as refugees, according to a report released Wednesday from the House Homeland Security committee.Waad Ramadan Alwan and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi, two Iraqi refugees settled in Bowling Green, Kentucky, after killing American soldiers, whom they bragged about having for lunch and dinner.
In 2010, they were caught handling weapons, including included a machine gun and a missile launcher, that they planned to smuggle to insurgents in Iraq.
I wouldn t be surprised if there were many more than that, said Rep. Michael McCaul (R., Texas), the chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security.
And these are trained terrorists in the art of bombmaking that are inside the United States; and quite frankly, from a homeland security perspective, that really concerns me.
The committee s report found that the administration s refugee resettlement program proposal will have a limited impact on alleviating the overall crisis but could have serious ramifications for U.S. homeland security.
Jeh Johnson, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, admitted in October at a hearing before the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs committee that organizations such as the Islamic State might attempt to exploit the Syrian refugee resettlement program.
It is true that we are not going to know a whole lot about the Syrians that come forth in this process, he said.President Obama s refugee resettlement program is now under scrutiny after deadly terrorist attacks in Paris killed more than 120 people and left more than 300 injured on Friday.
It is suspected that one of the terrorists entered the country as a refugee.In addition to these attacks, men in Minnesota were apprehended by the feds for trying to join the Islamic State.
There is growing concern that the state would be a recruiting ground for the Islamic State because of its large community of Somali refugees.Read more: WFB