Donald Trump is getting more screwed over by the Republicans as the days go on.
They had originally wanted to use him to advance the GOP s motives, but now that they see how batsh*t crazy he is, many conservatives want nothing to do with him.We saw a perfect example of this on Saturday morning, when GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham condemned Trump s latest Twitter meltdown, and it was absolutely brutal.
Graham basically stood behind former President Barack Obama and trashed Trump for accusing the last respectable POTUS of wiretapping his phones in the Trump Tower before the election.Graham has previously spoken out against Trump, and has rarely minced his words when warning Americans about the loose cannon we now have in the White House.
In the town hall, Graham blatantly stated that what Trump was alleging might end up being the biggest scandal we ve seen in decades.
Graham said: The President of the United States is claiming that the former President of the United States ordered wiretapping of his campaign last year.
I don t know if it s true or not, but if it is true, illegally, it would be the biggest political scandal since Watergate.
This statement was met with shouts and screams, and Graham had to beg the rowdy crowd to settle down so he could continue.
Offering another take on what Trump had done, he said: If the former President of the United States was able to obtain a warrant lawfully to monitor the Trump campaign for violating law, that would be the biggest scandal since Watergate.
Graham went on, explaining that Trump had just done himself a MAJOR disservice, and his Twitter meltdown may have very serious consequences.
I m very worried that our president is suggesting that the former president has done something illegal.
I would be very worried if, in fact, the Obama Administration was able to obtain a warrant lawfully about Trump campaign activity with foreign governments.
This would hardly be the first time Trump s pathetic attempt to make someone look bad backfired.
You can watch Graham defend Obama below:.
@LindseyGrahamSC responds to Donald Trump s claim that Obama wiretapped him https://t.co/phnWHeCO7J https://t.co/e8kvKJUC6Y CNN (@CNN) March 4, 2017Featured image via Scott Olson and Drew Angerer / Getty Images