With less than 24 hours before Election Day, things are going disastrously for Donald Trump s campaign team.Trump s communications director Jason Miller appeared on CNN with Chris Cuomo on Monday morning and quickly whined about FBI Director James Comey s decision to once again absolve Hillary Clinton of any wrongdoing in the long-running persecution over her emails.
Comey did so because the new emails were actually duplicates of ones that had already been investigated.But Miller refused to accept Comey s explanation and demanded that the emails be released for the sake of transparency.
No, don t accept it they should release all the emails, let us have a look before Election Day, Miller said.
We think that would be the smart thing to do.
Cuomo immediately smelled the hypocrisy and jumped all over Miller for it.
You love transparency when it s not you guys, Cuomo said.
You don t see any irony in that?
Why don t you release your emails?
Why don t you release Trump s taxes if you think transparency is such a good thing for the American people?
Miller repeated the tired old claim that Trump will release his taxes when he s not being audited, even though the IRS has said that taxes can still be released even when someone is being audited.
You think anybody believes the audit thing going to the polls tomorrow?
Cuomo asked.
You have any proof of an audit?
Miller stumbled a bit while claiming that he does have proof.
Yeah, you do?
Cuomo replied.
Have you seen an audit letter?
Miller attempted to deflect again by trying to spin the conversation to the Clinton Foundation, and once he said the word fact Cuomo pounced again.
That is the fact, right?
Cuomo said.
Transparency only works one way in this election where Trump s involved I ll show you an audit letter I got.
Here s the video via Twitter.Trump adviser @JasonMillerinDC calls for Clinton email release; @ChrisCuomo asks about releasing Trump s taxes.
https://t.co/bFL30OCt2h New Day (@NewDay) November 7, 2016Indeed, whenever a Trump surrogate appears on television they go to great lengths to avoid talking about how their candidate is one of the most non-transparent candidates in the history of American elections while trying to portray Hillary Clinton as a liar who has something to hide even though Hillary has released her tax returns and medical records to the public, both of which Donald Trump has refused to do himself using one excuse or another.Speaking of hypocrisy, Jason Miller was caught going to a strip club in Las Vegas the night before the last presidential debate.
That wouldn t be a problem for most campaigns, but Trump s base of support is comprised of conservatives who think female nudity is evil, so that makes Miller s outing fair game.But you ve got to hand it to Cuomo.
He grilled Miller to a crisp and we need the media to do more of that as Election Day approaches.Featured image via screenshot