Babies in bags and in a freezer yes, this is the reality of the abortion industry.
This is what Planned Parenthood doesn t want you to see.
The truth is difficult but thousands upon thousands of babies were killed last year at all stages of development but NOT just a big glob of cells these were little humans with feelings.
It s the truth and NOT a cartoon .Just Google Late Term Abortion or just Abortion and you ll see plenty of examples of little babies literally ripped apart.
Go ahead, I dare you THE TRAIL OF FETAL BODY PARTS USED FOR RESEARCHMaybe the undercover investigation conducted by the Center for Medical Progress needed to happen so people could see and hear the gruesomeness of Planned Parenthood s harvesting and sale of fetal body parts.
Maybe it was too easy to ignore without video-taped evidence in plain, gory language.But anyone who has followed scientific research on the Human Genome Project, cloning, genetic, evolution, and stem cell research knows that the use of fetal and embryonic body parts and tissues is nothing new.
Here, let me show you how the information is presented in scientific literature:Doing scientific lab work is much like cooking.
The Materials and Methods sections, which all full scientific papers have, are kind of like cookbooks.
There is often not enough room to detail all the steps in a full paper, so sometimes the rest of the story is given in Supplemental Materials.
Science journal puts those in a separate document.
The link is found at the end of the paper.
Here it is, and you have to download the Materials and Methods to read them.
Right at the top, there is the paragraph.
Go ahead.
Read it all: Human fetal brain tissue was obtained.
The age of fetuses ranged from 12 to 13 wpc (12 wpc, n = 1; 13 wpc, n = 2) as assessed by ultrasound measurements of crown-rump length and other standard criteria of developmental stage determination.
Human fetuses were placed on ice immediately after abortion and neocortices were dissected in ice-cold Tyrode s Solution (TS) and either processed for DiI labeling or fixed for at least 3 h at room temperature followed by 24 h at 4 C in 4% PFA in 120 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.4).
The 16 wpc human brain used for immunofluorescence analyses (shown in Fig.
S8) was obtained from Novogenix Laboratories (Torrance, CA), following informed consent and elective termination.
Developmental age was determined by ultrasound.Catch that?
Novogenix Laboratories in CA is the company who comes to Planned Parenthood, signs the patients up, and collects the tissues to sell to researchers.
They are mentioned in the Center for Medical Progress video.
There s also Agilent Technologies and the list of infant body parts: Human Fetal Brain, Human Fetal Colon, Human Fetal Heart, Human Fetal Bladder, Human Fetal Kidney, Human Fetal Lung, Human Fetal Skin, Human Fetal Aorta, Human Fetal Skeletal Muscle.There s tons more to this article by Stacy Trasancos I ve edited out but and it should be required reading for every American.
It should also make you want to throw up.There are Frankensteinian things going on in labs around the world and we re all supposed to apparently accept that because it s considered science, it s ok, because it s being done in the name of medical research, it s ok, because this is what the left sees to be progress, it s ok.It s not ok.It s evil.This photo is from Dr. Gosnell s abortion clinic:Isn t it ironic that Planned Parenthood uses a children s little cartoon character to fight the bullying from anti-abortion minions ?
It s interesting that this organization gets $500 million taxpayer dollars a year and can t seem to have an adult conversation about the truth of how they re profiting off of dead baby parts.
So let s get real with Planned Parenthood and demand that they answer for their actions instead of hiding behind a kiddie cartoon character.
Planned Parenthood is calling on everyone s favorite marbled-mouthed, yellow creatures for a PR rescue.THE GOVERNMENT FUNDED ORGANIZATION SENT OUT THIS TWEET: Friends who #StandWithPP: Stay strong.
The anti-abortion minions want to bully us into silence.
That s not happening.CLICK ON THE ARROW TO SEE:After the conservative group Center for Medical Progress released a video in which Planned Parenthood s senior director of medical services Dr. Deborah Nucatola is heard discussing selling tissue from aborted fetuses, the reproductive-rights group is urging supporters to stand tall against anti-abortion bullies.
The hashtag #StandwithPP has gained steam on Twitter, with politicians like Illinois Rep. Tammy Duckworth, presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and House of Representatives Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi expressing their allegiance.
The group has also launched a petition to stop Congress from stripping the organization of its funding.
The movie studio Universal, which released Minions, did not respond to a request for comment, according to The Hill.Via: NYP