Liberty University President Jerry Falwell Jr. still supports Donald Trump even after the recently released video showing the reality show star turned GOP presidential nominee bragging about sexually assaulting women.
However, students at the evangelical university aren t following Falwell in lockstep.A strongly worded statement was issued Wednesday by the group Liberty United Against Trump which denounces Falwell for his continued support of the Republican candidate on the heels of Trump s lewd and predatory remarks about women in the 1995 video, according to The Washington Post.
We are Liberty students who are disappointed with President Falwell s endorsement and are tired of being associated with one of the worst presidential candidates in American history, the statement reads.
Donald Trump does not represent our values and we want nothing to do with him.
He has made his name by maligning others and bragging about his sins.
Not only is Donald Trump a bad candidate for president, he is actively promoting the very things that we as Christians ought to oppose.
Jesus said Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Falwell wrote in an op-ed for The Post in January.
Let s stop trying to choose the political leaders who we believe are the most godly because, in reality, only God knows people s hearts.
You and I don t, and we are all sinners.
Students at the university felt compelled to respond to Falwell s unwavering support for Trump.
Because our president has led the world to believe that Liberty University supports Donald Trump, we students must take it upon ourselves to make clear that Donald Trump is absolutely opposed to what we believe, and does not have our support, the students said.
We are not proclaiming our opposition to Donald Trump out of bitterness, but out of a desire to regain the integrity of our school.
Falwell criticized the students opposing his support for Trump, writing in part, This student statement seems to ignore the teachings of Jesus not to judge others but they are young and still learning.
The students disagree.
Jesus tells a story in the Bible about a man who tries to remove a speck of dust from his brother s eye, while he has a log stuck in his own, the statement reads.
You hypocrite, Jesus says, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother s eye.
Dustin Wahl, a junior at Liberty, told the paper that more than 250 students, alumni and faculty have left signatures of support to protest Falwell s endorsement of the GOP nominee.
Since the most recent sexual assault thing, we realized this is a time we can all get behind this and say enough is enough.
We do not support our president in his endorsement of Trump and we want the world to know because he s giving Liberty University a bad name, Wahl told The Post.
It makes it seem like we re about populist politics when we re about the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This is about gaining the integrity of our school.
This is an effort to say Liberty is not Trump university.
Falwell thinks Trump is a changed man.
The problem with his mindset is that Trump has not changed since 1995.
Since then, he s gone on to call women slobs, pigs, dogs and launched attacks on former Miss Universe Alicia Machado.You can read the full statement from the students here.Photo by Joe Raedle via Getty.