If there s one thing politicians should be terrified of, it s the power and influence of Sarah Palin.
You know, because her guy always wins.
Oh wait, no, that s wrong.
She s a joke and tries to stay relevant by grabbing onto the nearest coattails of anyone who will thrust her back into the spotlight.The failed former vice presidential candidate and reality television star is apparently furious Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) isn t backing Donald Trump, and she s hellbent on ending his career.
Although, the only political career she s been great at destroying is her own.Palin told CNN s Jack Tapper, using Cantored as a verb, you know, like Eric Cantor, I think Paul Ryan is soon to be Cantored.'
Of course, Cantor was ousted in his primary back in 2014.
A man who, as House Majority Leader, everyone assumed would be a shoo-in for Speaker of the House, a job that eventually went to Paul Ryan.I m sure Paul Ryan is trembling in his penny loafers.Watch Palin ramble on here about Ryan:Sarah Palin: Paul Ryan s political career is over, but for a miracle https://t.co/peFwtPCwKy #PalinOnCNN https://t.co/NxEo9lH0If CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) May 8, 2016 She wasn t done, though, Palin said: His political career is over but for a miracle because he has so disrespected the will of the people, and as the leader of the GOP, the convention, certainly he is to remain neutral, and for him to already come out and say who he will not support is not a wise decision of his.
No no, your political career is over, Palin.
You.
But she believes Ryan s ultimate goal is a White House run in 2020: If the GOP were to win now, that wouldn t bode well for his chances in 2020, and that s what he s shooting for.
Palin also insinuates that she ll be backing Paul Ryan s primary challenger in Wisconisn, Trump supporter Paul Nehlen, stating: This man is a hard-working guy, so in touch with the people.
Paul Ryan and his ilk, their problem is they have become so disconnected by the people whom they are elected to represent.
Also saying: They feel so threatened at this point that their power, their prestige, their purse will be adversely affected by the change that is coming with Trump and with someone like Paul Nehlen, that they re not thinking straight right now.
Sarah Palin: I will do whatever I can for Paul Ryan s primary challenger https://t.co/fRtfZtmgag #PalinOnCNN https://t.co/2OgJQlv9Ri CNN (@CNN) May 8, 2016Will Speaker Ryan be threatened by Palin?
Likely not.
The only thing she threatens is the decency of the spoken English word.The fact that Jake Tapper had her on State of the Union is still mind-boggling, but alas, there she was, to spew her world salad and throw a hissy fit because someone dared to have an opinion about Trump that differed from her own.
One day she won t be taken seriously anymore by the media, and that day can t come soon enough.Featured image via video screen capture