What a class act!
The President and First Lady visited Rep. Steve Scalise in the hospital last night:President #Trump and First Lady Melania visit Rep. Steve Scalise in the hospital and bring him flowers pic.twitter.com/SSkor0Rm1L John Binder (@JxhnBinder) June 15, 2017President Trump planned to make a visit past 8 p.m.
ET to Medstar Washington Medical Center, where Rep. Steve Scalise, the number three House Republican, underwent surgery earlier Wednesday for wounds sustained in the shooting, which took place outside Washington.The hospital said after the surgery that Scalise remained in critical condition.
A US Capitol Police officer who was also hurt in the gun attack was also receiving treatment at the facility, situated about three miles northeast of the White House.
THE PRESIDENT TWEETED ABOUT HIS VISIT:Just left hospital.
Rep. Steve Scalise, one of the truly great people, is in very tough shape but he is a real fighter.
Pray for Steve!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 15, 2017 Ahead of his visit, a White House official said Trump may only be able to visit Scalise s family, which has gathered at the facility, since the lawmaker himself remains critically ill.MARK KNOLLER tweeted out that the First lady brought flowers to the hospital:Press pool told @FLOTUS accompanied Pres to the hospital and has brought flowers for Rep. Scalise, who had to undergo surgery today.
Mark Knoller (@markknoller) June 15, 2017LEAVING THE HOSPITAL:Photo of @POTUS and @FLOTUS leaving MedStar Hospital following visit to House Majority Whip Steve Scalise.
pic.twitter.com/7FHCqrhfgf Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) June 15, 2017President Trump has been hailed by both sides of the aisle.
He came out and spoke almost immediately after this attack on Republicans.
Great job!How sweet is this!
Back on March 17th President Trump sent a message to the 10-year old daughter of Rep.
Scalise:.
@POTUS has an important message for my daughter Madison on her 10th birthday!
pic.twitter.com/GRlz1YJECh Rep. Steve Scalise (@SteveScalise) March 17, 2017 Read more: ABC