Full Frontal host Samantha Bee is not known for mincing words, and this time she has turned her attentions to supposedly moderate GOP presidential candidate John Kasich (R-OH).
Before the election season heated up, Kasich was not known nationwide, so understandably his relatively non-crazy public persona made him seem like a safe pick next to the clown show that is Donald Trump, and the dangerous extremism of Ted Cruz.
However, Samantha Bee wants to warn us to not be fooled by Kasich s not being as openly batty as his fellow GOP presidential candidates.Bee spoke of Kasich s record on her show, in which she reminded everyone that he is very anti-gay and even more anti-choice: In the nauseating bus terminal restroom that is the Republican primary, John Kasich initially seems like the least disgusting stall, but is Kasich really the huggable moderate he s made out to be?
The short answer to that question is a resounding NO!!
From Salon:Bee noted the candidate s scarcely mentioned record on gay marriage ( Obergefell v. Hodges, the Supreme Court case that legalized same-sex marriage, was originally called Obergefell v. Kasich ) and reproductive rights (citing Michael Gonidakis, president of Ohio Right to Life, who said, There is no candidate running for president who has done more for the pro-life movement than John Kasich ).That doesn t sound like a moderate at all to me.
In fact, it sounds like Ted Cruz part deux, only even more dangerous, because nobody knows what he s really like.
Kasich s campaign is built upon trying to make him seem like one of the sane GOP candidates, when, in actuality, he s just as crazy as the rest.
Bee continued: If you live outside Ohio, you don t hear much about Kasich s anti-choice record because he hides his abortion restrictions in larger budget bills, where they won t be noticed.
Kind of like a desperate, pregnant teenager buying ever-larger sweatshirts.
In a lot of ways, this makes Kasich even worse than the others.
At least we see their crazy and know what we re getting.
Kasich is very adept at hiding his.
What does it say about the current incarnation of the GOP that the only sane candidate is this guy?Thanks, Ms. Bee, for telling it like it is, as always.Watch the segment below:Featured image via video screen capture