Former Beatle George Harrison s estate is livid today after his song, Here Comes the Sun was played at the Republican National Convention.While Harrison is no longer with us, his estate certainly is, and it appears that they ve maintained some of Harrison s values.
They tweeted this to the Trump campaign:The unauthorized use of #HereComestheSun at the #RNCinCLE is offensive & against the wishes of the George Harrison estate.
George Harrison (@GeorgeHarrison) July 22, 2016They weren t against the use of all his music, though: If it had been Beware of Darkness, then we MAY have approved it!
#TrumpYourself George Harrison (@GeorgeHarrison) July 22, 2016Not surprisingly, the right-wing bully isn t too well liked in the music world.
These 17 musicians have brutally said #NoTrump.A few months ago, Trump was told by the Rolling Stones that he needs to stop using their music.Trump has featured the track during his campaign, even drawing the ire of the Rolling Stones earlier this year.
The Rolling Stones have never given permission to the Trump campaign to use their songs and have requested that they cease all use immediately, a spokesperson for the band said in a statement.Source: Entertainment WeeklySo, what did Trump and the GOP do?
They delivered a great big middle finger to the Stones and to the #NeverTrump movement at the Republican National Convention and played it out with You Can t Always Get What You Want.
Let s call that a bookend.
The convention opened by playing Queen s We Are the Champions, to which the remaining members of Queen quickly objected after all, Freddie Mercury was LGBT and the 2016 Republican platform is the most anti-LGBT yet.An unauthorised use at the Republican Convention against our wishes Queen Queen (@QueenWillRock) July 19, 2016Legally, it s possible that neither Harrison s estate nor Queen, nor any other of the rock stars who ve been wronged by Trump can do much about it.
Candidates do need to buy permission to use music, but that often comes in a package.
In other words, they buy rights to use music from the catalogues of organizations like Broadcast Music Inc (BMI) and the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP).
In other words, they were likely within their legal rights, but that doesn t mean musicians should shut up.
They should let their opinions be known, loudly, as we all should.Featured image of Beatles by Les Lee of Getty Images | Featured image of Donald Trump by Alex Wong of Getty Images