Is it utter contempt, or incredible stupidity?
Actually, it s probably both.
Republicans are well known for their utter contempt of every other person that exists who doesn t give them tons of money.
The latest example of this phenomenon is just impossibly stupid as you will read below.Idaho s Republican governor, Butch Otter, said something so stupid that I think it means he s too stupid to be able to understand just how ridiculous it sounds.
The statement came in response to the Republican-controlled state legislature not being able to figure out if it s a good idea to expand Medicaid.
It would help 78,000 Idahoans to not be forced to make the choice between medical bill-induced bankruptcy or death.
Somehow this is a difficult choice.Governor Otter, re-asserting his dominant position as the alpha-stupid person of the state s right-wing clown show, said this: I see plenty of people that die every day in hospitals and they have insurance.
And they re in the hospital.
But they still die.
Source: Boise State Public RadioOtter then went on to contradict his own Republican Speaker of the State House.
The governor said that there would be no special legislative sessions to address the severe coverage gap for the people of Idaho, implying that he doesn t feel its worth considering.
The speaker, though, had promised there was a firm commitment by the Idaho House to do something about the severe lack of medical coverage for so many in the state.
So, which is it going to be?Conflicting statements aside, what the governor said was just amazingly stupid.
He literally is saying that it s pointless to help people afford to see a doctor because of the fact that some people who have seen a doctor at some point still die.Just what the hell can you possibly say to something like this?This is one of the reasons we can t get anything done in this country.
Republicans make it completely impossible to have any form of factual conversation about anything because they adopt a position completely devoid of all logic.
You can t argue with stupid.Featured image via YouTube screen capture