James O Keefe has been at the forefront of new media since he outed ACORN posing as a pimp Who can forget that!
He s exposed the left time and time again His latest video exposed liberal organizers suggesting violent ways to disrupt the inauguration of President Trump.It seems O Keefe recognizes that we are at war with the press more than anyone on the left.
The blatant lies and complete distortions of just about anything President Trump says are happening 24/7 on CNN, MSNBC, ABC, NBC and CBS.
It s time to expose the REAL fake news Thank you James O Keefe!Here s O Keefe s first release where Joe Sterling, CNN s News Desk Editor for The Wire telling one of O Keefe s undercover reporters that climate change is settled science and, There is no debate.
I mean, I m a little biased Joe Sterling, once News Desk Editor @CNN admits he has a clear bias in favor of @POTUS44.
Doesn't #CNN claim to be "most trusted?"
#CNNLeaks pic.twitter.com/VhxeJCK1lL James O'Keefe (@JamesOKeefeIII) February 23, 2017The second release in a long list of undercover CNN tapes, PROVES Trump was correct when he talked about the polls being rigged.
We all knew that President Trump was correct when he told Americans, Don t believe the polls that were incorrectly pointing to a huge Hillary win.
We all know how that story ends.
Trump beat Hillary in a landslide, and beat her in states that polls like CNN s, told us he had no chance of winning.
Listen to CNN try to reason with O Keefe s undercover reporter about why they refuse to update their polls after new information emerges that could be a game changer in how the public perceives it:When questioned about their tactics and why they choose not to use new data to update one of their polls, CNN s Executive Editor Arthur Brice responded, I agree.
I think its dishonest to use outdated information if new information shows something that is in variance with something you re reporting.
It s just dishonest.
In this bit we found @CNN's Executive Editor @ArthurBrice talks about using "dishonest and outdated information" in CNN's polls.
#CNNLeaks pic.twitter.com/j2L2FrqYwY James O'Keefe (@JamesOKeefeIII) February 23, 2017