You seriously can t make this stuff up Wouldn t it be great if we had a real and honest media, and this was the top story of the day today?Zero Hedge Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton facilitated the transfer a highly enriched uranium (HEU) previously confiscated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) during a 2006 nuclear smuggling sting operation involving one Russian national and several Georgian accomplices, a newly leaked classified cable shows.So-called background information was provided in the cable which gave vague details on a 2006 nuclear smuggling sting operation in which the U.S. government took possession of some HEU previously owned by the Russians.
Over two years ago Russia requested a ten-gram sample of highly enriched uranium (HEU) seized in early 2006 in Georgia during a nuclear smuggling sting operation involving one Russian national and several Georgian accomplices.
The seized HEU was transferred to U.S. custody and is being held at a secure DOE facility.
The secret action request, dated Aug. 17, 2009, was sent out by Secretary of State Clinton and was addressed to the United States Ambassador to Georgia Embassy Tbilisi, the Russian Embassy, and Ambassador John Beyrle.It proposed that FBI Director Robert Mueller be the one that personally conducts the transfer a 10-gram sample of HEU to Russian law enforcement sources during a secret plane-side meeting on a tarmac in the early fall of 2009.
We require that the transfer of this material be conducted at the airport, on the tarmac near by the plane, upon arrival of the Director s aircraft.
Gateway Pundit The cable also states that Given Russia s reluctance to act so far, FBI Mueller s delivery of this sample will underscore to Russia our commitment to follow through on this case.
It continues in stating, Embassy Moscow is requested to alert at the highest appropriate level the Russian Federation that FBI Director Mueller plans to deliver the HEU sample once he arrives to Moscow on September 21.
The cable summarizes that, We regret that the April visit by Director Mueller could not take place due to a scheduling conflict.
and makes a final request that, We require that the transfer of this material be conducted at the airport, on the tarmac near by the plane, upon arrival of the Director s aircraft.
Now knowing that the Obama Administration and Hillary Clinton hid the FBI investigation into the Uranium One deal, this cable brings on new meaning and leads to numerous questions.Why did Obama and Clinton agree to provide this uranium delivered by Mueller to Russia in the first place?An article by the Atlantic from April 2008 tells the fascinating story of the smuggler in the country of Georgia who was arrested trying to sell uranium to potential buyers.
The smuggler, Oleg Vladimirovich Khintsagov, on January 31, 2006, was apprehended by authorities carrying 100 grams of highly enriched uranium tucked into a plastic bag in his tattered leather coat.A sample of the uranium captured during this sting operation was provided to the Russians who analyzed it and determined that it was indeed highly enriched uranium (HEU).
In the Atlantic article, it states that the Russians at first didn t respond to requests from Georgia on the uranium and at no time asked for the uranium back.
As a matter of fact, the Russians worked hard to deny that the uranium came from Russia in the first place.
So why did the Obama Administration hand deliver 10 grams of HEU to Russia in 2009 and when did Russia begin asking for another sample of the uranium and why did the memo not mention that the Russians had already obtained a sample of this uranium and determined that it was HEU?Another question is why did Clinton s Secretary of State request that FBI Director Mueller deliver the sample of HEU to Russia and why was the transfer in April canceled and postponed to September?Of all people, why would the Head of the FBI be selected to transfer uranium to Russia?
It would seem that the US has a number of individuals who could perform this transfer and it would seem that FBI Director Mueller would have enough on his plate in the US.
When Mueller couldn t make the transfer in April the transfer was postponed to September so Mueller could be there.The fact that Mueller needed to perform the transfer should raise numerous red flags.
It s been widely reported about Mueller s conflicts of interest with his recent appointment as special counsel in the Russia investigation.According to The Hill, before the Obama administration approved a controversial deal in 2010 giving Moscow control of a large swath of American uranium, the FBI had gathered substantial evidence that Russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in bribery, kickbacks, extortion and money laundering designed to grow Vladimir Putin s atomic energy business inside the United States, according to government documents and interviews.Federal agents used a confidential U.S. witness working inside the Russian nuclear industry to gather extensive financial records, make secret recordings and intercept emails as early as 2009 that showed Moscow had compromised an American uranium trucking firm with bribes and kickbacks in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, FBI and court documents show.They also obtained an eyewitness account backed by documents indicating Russian nuclear officials had routed millions of dollars to the U.S. designed to benefit former President Bill Clinton s charitable foundation during the time Secretary of State Hillary Clinton served on a government body that provided a favorable decision to Moscow, sources told The Hill.The racketeering scheme was conducted with the consent of higher level officials in Russia who shared the proceeds from the kickbacks, one agent declared in an affidavit years later.Rather than bring immediate charges in 2010, however, the Department of Justice (DOJ) continued investigating the matter for nearly four more years, essentially leaving the American public and Congress in the dark about Russian nuclear corruption on U.S. soil during a period when the Obama administration made two major decisions benefitting Putin s commercial nuclear ambitions.Then-Attorney General Eric Holder was among the Obama administration officials joining Hillary Clinton on the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States at the time the Uranium One deal was approved.
Multiple current and former government officials told The Hill they did not know whether the FBI or DOJ ever alerted committee members to the criminal activity they uncovered.Spokesmen for Holder and Clinton did not return calls seeking comment.
The Justice Department also didn t comment.Mikerin was a director of Rosatom s Tenex in Moscow since the early 2000s, where he oversaw Rosatom s nuclear collaboration with the United States under the Megatons to Megwatts program and its commercial uranium sales to other countries.
In 2010, Mikerin was dispatched to the U.S. on a work visa approved by the Obama administration to open Rosatom s new American arm called Tenam.Between 2009 and January 2012, Mikerin did knowingly and willfully combine, conspire confederate and agree with other persons to obstruct, delay and affect commerce and the movement of an article and commodity (enriched uranium) in commerce by extortion, a November 2014 indictment stated.His illegal conduct was captured with the help of a confidential witness, an American businessman, who began making kickback payments at Mikerin s direction and with the permission of the FBI.
The first kickback payment recorded by the FBI through its informant was dated Nov. 27, 2009, the records show.
For entire story: The HillThe investigation was ultimately supervised by then-U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein, an Obama appointee who now serves as President Trump s deputy attorney general, and then-Assistant FBI Director Andrew McCabe, now the deputy FBI director under Trump, Justice Department documents show.On August 6, 2017, The Washington Times questioned Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein s fishing expedition aimed at digging up dirt on President Trump in his investigation in the Trump-Russia investigation.
The special counsel is subject to the rules and regulations of the Department of Justice, and we don t engage in fishing expeditions, Mr. Rosenstein said on Fox News Sunday.
In his first Sunday show interview, Mr. Rosenstein added that special counsel Robert Mueller understands and I understand the specific scope of the investigation and so, it s not a fishing expedition.
Mr. Rosenstein s comments come amid reports citing unnamed sources that the investigation has expanded into Mr. Trump s finances unrelated to possible Russian interference in last year s election.Mr.
Rosenstein played down the reports: That s not anything that I ve said.
That s not anything Director Mueller has said.
We don t know who s saying it or how credible those sources are.
Both men now play a key role in the current investigation into possible, but still unproven collusion between Russia and Donald Trump s campaign during the 2016 election.