Republican nominee Donald Trump s outreach to win over minorities has been a disaster, and what he just said about a group of exonerated men is probably going to end whatever support he had.Trump had been big on accusing the Central Park Five the five teens wrongfully accused of raping a woman in Central Park ever since the case blew up in 1989.
During that time, Trump had taken out a full-page ad in the New York Times blaming the teens, and using them as the reason why New York State should bring back the death penalty (ironic, because Trump himself has been accused of rape several times).
The ad, which was signed by Trump himself, said: They should be forced to suffer and, when they kill, they should be executed for their crimes.
Just to be clear, these were minority TEENAGERS one was Latino and four were black and Trump called for their death.
Decades later, Trump continues to double down on those comments.
According to a CNN report, Trump revealed that he still thinks these five men are guilty, despite the fact that they were exonerated and awarded $41 million for wrongful imprisonment in 2002.
Trump said: They admitted they were guilty.
The police doing the original investigation say they were guilty.
The fact that that case was settled with so much evidence against them is outrageous.
And the woman, so badly injured, will never be the same.
Yes, Trump still believes these men are responsible for what happened to Trisha Meili, despite the fact that DNA evidence pointed to Matias Reyes, who confessed to the crime.Trump has questioned the release of the Central Park Five before.
After the men were released and received their settlement in 2014, Trump said, Settling doesn t mean innocence.
Fortunately, no one has forgotten Trump s racist past with the Central Park Five, and are spreading this information far and wide just weeks ahead of the election.
This is certainly a bad time for Trump to be reminding everyone how racist he is:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterIt s mind-boggling that Trump still cannot accept their innocence, despite the evidence.
But perhaps this explanation by Michael D Antonio, the author of The Truth About Trump, will shed some light onto it: He s not a person who takes in new information and then adjusts and accepts reality.
The only reality that matters to him is his judgment, which was rendered many years prior.
Featured image via Win McNamee / Getty Images