Ruline Steininger wants to participate in an historic election that could result in the first female President of the United States, and she isn t going to vote for national disaster Donald Trump.Steininger is 103 years old, and was only seven years old in 1920 when women won the right to vote with the passage and ratification of the 19th Amendment.Throughout her life and the lives of every woman in America since the founding of our country there has never been a woman president and Hillary Clinton is now poised to break that unfortunate streak since becoming the first woman to become the presidential nominee of a major political party.During an interview with CNN s Christiane Amanpour, the Iowa native expressed her delight that she has the chance to finally cast her vote for a woman in the upcoming presidential election in November, especially if it means blocking Donald Trump from stepping foot in the White House next year.
She s our only hope, Steininger said of Clinton.
We certainly don t want Trump for a president.
Hillary is the best qualified candidate we have had in a long long time.
I never thought we d see a woman president of the United States, but this is the year.
Back in December, Steininger sent her family a Christmas card vowing that she will do whatever it takes to stay alive long enough to cast her vote in this crucial election.
The chances are high that my vote will be absent, she wrote.
After giving this problem much serious thought and consideration, I ve come to the decision that I must live to do my part November 2016.
I can die later.
Voting to put a woman in the White House is not the only reason she decided to cheat death for another year.
She s genuinely shocked that Donald trump has gotten this far and that people genuinely think he s a qualified candidate to lead the country.
I don t know what has gotten into people, she told Amanpour.
If he s elected president, it s going to be a national disaster which we will likely take years to recover from.
The only way to stop Trump is to vote for Hillary.
Here s the video via YouTube.And by voting for Hillary, Steininger will be voting for history AND against the end of America as we know it.Featured image via screen capture