On Monday, Jimmy Kimmel mercilessly mocked Sarah Palin for denying climate science by literally bringing real scientists on his show.
We ve had 15 of the 16 hottest years ever since 2001, Kimmel told his audience.
That s not an opinion.
It s a fact.
For some reason whether or not humans are contributing to this has become a left versus right issue.
The politicians debate it.
Our scientists don t. A huge majority of climate scientists say climate change is happening.
They say we re causing it and we need to do something about it before it has a terrible effect on all of us.
There s no debate about the greenhouse effect, just like there s no debate about gravity.
It someone throws a piano off the roof, I don t care what Sarah Palin tells you get out of the way.
It s coming down on your head.
Kimmel said that he expected right-wing trolls to attack him for his defense of science and his prediction became reality as many Palin fans flocked to social media to prove their stupidity.So, on Wednesday, Kimmel responded.Rather than respond by writing back to his haters on Facebook and other social media platforms, Kimmel chose to just embarrass the hell out of them instead by reading their comments on national television.
It might seem I only picked comments from people whose grammar is bad, but the truth is, the vast majority of the comments came from people whose grammar is bad, Kimmel began before reading a series of comments from people who clearly needed to pay more attention in school.Jim Jacob couldn t even get Kimmel s name right when he wrote, Mr Kimble if you are so smart many you should get a real job like climate scientists I give up you!.
Erik Simmy defended Palin by accusing scientists of lying to teeth.
Sarah Palin might not be a scientist what she is saying doesn t need to be science to be understood the very scientists who claim to be telling the truth about global warming they know they re lying to teeth to help the government control our lives in the name of global warming.
There are more comments and they are just as ridiculously idiotic as the other ones.Here s the video via YouTube.These right-wing trolls had no idea that their stupidity would be aired for all to see.
If they had known, perhaps they would have kept their mouths shut.
Jimmy Kimmel just taught them a valuable lesson.
Watch what you say on social media because you re not as anonymous as you think you are.Featured image via screenshot