WHY FED UP HUNGARIAN MAYOR Would Send All Illegal Immigrants To US We are now prisoners on our farms.
People s calm lives are destroyed, and the people want them back.
We bet that if you mentioned Asotthalom before September 16, 2015, people would make big eyes wondering what you just said.
But a day later you started googling this Hungarian village and its Mayor Laszlo Toroczkai, whose video message swept the board in the Web.It is 10.00 a. m. Saturday in the village of Asotthalom nearly touching the Hungarian-Serbian border.
A smiling sprightly man in jeans and a jacket steps out from his sedan near the municipality.
No military clothing, no big hulky bodyguards on jeeps.
A vigorous handshake.
It is the mayor.
I have to work every day, and fortunately the situation with the illegal immigration is better, Laszlo Toroczkai says instantaneously coming to the point of our talk.This is what made him the most googled Hungarian figure as of right now a blockbuster trailer-style video stating that If you are an illegal immigrant, Hungary is a bad choice and Asotthalom is the worst.
Once, smugglers had a violent clash with Asotthalom police and two of them were hospitalized as well as the policemen.
Later, a group of smugglers were arrested in the village.The Best Employees of Asotthalom Toroczkai criticized the Croatian government, scolding it for fueling this impropriety.
Currently Croatia is the main migrant route to Hungary.
The Croatian government carries migrants from the Croatian-Serbian border to the Croatian-Hungarian border acting just like human traffickers.
And no one talks about it.
As for the Hungarian-Serbian border, where Asotthalom is located, the situation relatively scaled down when the government sent the Army to protect the border wall.
However, the mayor wants the government to build a better fence there.Now migrants are moving across the village in few groups at night, trying to cross as fast as they can, as it is unsafe for them here.
What the visitors first notice entering Asotthalom is a traffic sign depicting a crossed-out man with a bag behind his back.
The mayor explained that the broad meaning of the sign is that we do not welcome criminals here, however, it originally targeted a specific crime where swindlers distracted residents by offering things for sale, while their accomplices robbed the house.Migrants intercepted while trying to cross the fence, the post reads.The mayor lives in farm right at the border and he became one of the first witnesses of the expanding influx of migrants.
His neighbor s wife was alone in her house with three little kids when a group of exclusively young male migrants broke into her garden at night and wanted to enter her house.Sometimes they do it just to charge their cell phones, sometimes the wait for human traffickers in abandoned houses.
But imagine when you are alone and you are a woman with children and a group of men from Islamic or other countries want to enter your house at night on your farm!
The mayor s family was trapped in a very similar situation.
My wife woke me up, she was afraid, there were some 40 people, and I ran out of the house with a non-lethal pistol not to shoot but to scare them off.
You would do anything in this situation.
I Have Nothing Against Refugees During our conversation Laszlo Torockai several times emphasized and reiterated that he has nothing against refugees.
He draws a line between those who are saving their lives (asylum-seekers) and those who are looking for easy money and benefits (economic migrants).Toroczkai argues that Hungary is full of purely economic migrants who are not real refugees, including those from Pakistan, Bangladesh and African countries which are free of wars.
When he meets migrants, he always asks them two questions: where are your family, kids and wife, and what are you going to do in Europe?One of the typical answers Toroczkai gets is like this: I want a Mercedes Cabrio in Monaco , an African man told him.
Citing statistics, the mayor emphasized that of all the illegal immigrants in Hungary, 83 percent are young males and only 17 percent are children and women those whom he considers true refugees.
In his book, a man must defend his homeland instead of leaving it in danger.
You know, if there is a war in my village, in my country, then my wife and my children will be refugees and I will stay at home to fight for my village and for my country.
He stated that if a person agrees to abide by the law in Asotthalom, he or she would not have any problem.READ MORE: Sputnik News