Photo illustration by Patrick Henningsen@21WIRE Nader Talebzadeh 21st Century WireThe American enlightenment has started.
The dormancy of over three decades, and the miseries that the United States has put dozens of nations through, have begun to cease.
The torment that the Vietnamese went through and the innocent lives that perished under US drones in Afghanistan and Pakistan are beginning to find their answers.
But not in international tribunals or world system of justice.
No.
In people s conscious, the great divide in the American population is the first sure sign of a change to come.Ever since the unwelcome appearance of Donald Trump on the US governmental scene, the first president not to be placed into position by the deep state, the inquisition over what is going on has begun.Americans, more than ever are perplexed about their future.
Their past is vague, and no matter how hard they peer into the rear view mirror for those Americans, it doesn t make sense.9/11 doesn t make sense.The occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan doesn t make sense.The admittance to not finding any WMDs in Iraq and yet occupying it, doesn t make sense.To cause the deaths of 500, 000 children, and say it was worth the kill by the administrators doesn t make sense.The cover-up for 9/11 doesn t make sense.
To start a global war on terror and not explain how 9/11 occurred, or how a third building collapsed nine hours later, doesn t make sense.Obama s sudden appearance on the scene, doesn t make sense.The hundreds of books and articles that question the mechanism of the selection of Obama and never discussing them on the mainstream media, doesn t make sense.Obama placed in that position by the establishment, by the deep state, doesn t make sense.The blanked out middle-class of America, still pondering what happened, doesn t make sense.The fact that they lost their jobs beginning three decades ago, and having had to let go of their comfortable insured life working in an American factory, doesn t make sense.The abandoned factories and grand industries that once made America great, lying obsolete and deserted, doesn t make sense.Half of Detroit abandoned and deserted, doesn t make sense.The media cheering on its hallucinatory concussions all throughout these disasters, doesn t make sense.The PTSD ed war veterans and the official suicide rates of US soldiers on and off duty, go undetected and barely seen in the rear view mirror of the media, never make sense.All the common man sees today is one man attacked by the same mass media that pushed them into the illegal wars and illegitimate debts from zero to $20 trillion, between 1979-2017, by some estimates.But the buck stops here as President Eisenhower once famously said.
The heavy train loaded with old rusted debris is coming to a screeching halt.
Meanwhile the curious are looking wide-eyed.
NATO doesn t know where it really stands.
The think tanks of Washington the hub of all mesmerizing strategies are vacant, or their curtains half drawn.
The Neocons are contemplating plan B.
The Israeli firsters are caught off guard.
They are planning ahead of time desperately.
But whose ears do they have this time?!
A man who calls the weapons of the think tanks, the mainstream media, liars , fake news !
?Once the invisible sword, the likes of New York Times and CNN are today exposed and blunted.
Who dared call CNN liars ?!
CNN engaged America meticulously into two fake wars which indebted the United States, and still avoided any blame.
It was almost scripted and storyboarded like a Hollywood movie.
Now, it is still loose, with acrobatic skills evading all detection like a skilled serial killer breathing in our civilized world.Now the eye-opening process has begun.
Watch out for the six-packers and their evaporated illusions!
You have finally awaken the slumbering slave of America, and awakened they are Alas!
All empires go through these stages.
The awkward moments must be tolerated i.e.
the president without a cabinet, the supporters with semi-automatic weapons guarding his speeches in Georgia and Florida.
The anti-Semitic accusations that are being discussed in the morning regular sessions on CNN.
The angry obliterated Alan Dershowitz who is nervously accusing CNN s moderator Don Lemon, of giving the anti-Semites their fifteen minutes of fame.
They fear that it will catch fire on the colleges and universities.The masquerade however is over.
The Paul Wolfowitzs, the Richard Perles, the Daniel Pipes have to face the masses.
The not-so-innocent masses that succumbed to the beast s demands also wait.
The confrontation lingers silently.
No one even knows these people as Thomas Friedman of the New York Times once famously said in his interviews with the Haaretz.
Twenty Five Neocons have planned and executed what has happened in the past two and a half decades.The wakeup call has rung, the moment of illusion has disappeared.
The apparent, sudden sun is beginning to shine gloriously, one ray at a time.
Wash your face and watch the unfolding.21WIRE contributor Nader Talebzadeh is an Iranian filmmaker, producer, writer, cultural and historical commentator and New Horizon Conference Chair, Channel One TV program host A sr (The Time ).
READ MORE TRUMP NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Trump FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV