Donald Trump s executive order to ban travelers from Muslim-majority countries has been met with an onslaught of criticism.One of the people continuing to speak out against Trump is former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who slammed Trump in an interview with Chris Cuomo earlier today.
Criticizing Trump s ban and the team that helped move it forward, Albright made a suggestion that could save America from this doomed, terrifying presidency: It would be helpful if the people at the top of our government actually read the Constitution.
Because clearly, Trump knows nothing about it.
Albright smacked down Trump s unprepared plan , stating that what he was doing was actually putting America in danger instead of making America Safe Again.
She said: It has actually created more danger.
Because there are countries that are now, in fact, not able to cooperate with us in terms of intelligence sharing or generally mistrust, and there s going to be tit for tat, where we have troops in Iraq and we have to worry how they are going to be treated.
Albright also stated that Trump created chaos and turmoil not only within the U.S., but on an international level as well.
I think it s one of the worst decisions.
And then blaming a whole religion for this is truly outrageous and un-American.
I think the question is, there s danger in the world, no question about it, but all the facts that you have been presenting in terms of who are the ones that commit terrorist attacks, it s not people that come from those seven countries.
Albright posed the critical question: why weren t the countries that are actually a danger on the banned list?
She stated that Trump s ban was not based on facts because no refugee has actually attacked the U.S. in over 40 years.
Trump didn t even put the countries that the 9/11 hijackers came from on the list.
Albright said: There are lots of questions that have not been answered.
Part of what really bothers me is that this country is based on diversity and respecting diverse opinions.
What is happening is that this administration is making decisions based on the decisions of people that are uninformed about what is going on in the world.
Albright herself was a refugee, having escaped then-Czechoslovakia shortly after Nazi occupation started.
Her parents were Jewish and she lost many family members due to the Holocaust.
Albright condemned Trump for leaving Jews out of his Holocaust Remembrance Day proclamation.
She said: I think that it was really unbelievable, in terms of what day it was issued, on Holocaust Memorial Day, and not to understand the suffering.
By the way, that one of the things people remember about the United States is that during the 1930s a ship of Jews was turned away from America.
Is that the things we want to remember is how we turn people away from this country when they need help?
You can watch Albright crush Trump below:Just a few days ago, Albright stood in solidarity with Muslims and said she was ready to register as Muslim.
We need more voices like Albright s to fight the tyranny that America has just come under.Featured image via Jessica Kourkounis / Getty Images