Donald Trump already has blood on his hands.
Over the weekend, Trump ordered his first raid and somehow managed to completely f**k up what was supposed to be a very straightforward operation.
Thanks to his carelessness and trigger-happy nature, Trump got a Navy SEAL killed.The raid was on al Qaeda in Yemen, and Trump decided to go through with the raid even though he did not have sufficient intelligence, ground support or adequate backup preparations.
Because of Trump s literal lack of intelligence, U.S. Navy SEAL William Ryan Owens was killed, as well as many other non-combatant civilian deaths.
According to Reuters, about 30 people, including 10 women and children, were killed.
And of course, Trump managed to screw things up so badly that no militants or prisoners were taken in during this process.As more details came in about this mess of an operation, it was discovered that Trump decided to go ahead with the raid without even doing the most minimal preparations.
It was reported: U.S. military officials told Reuters that Trump approved his first covert counterterrorism operation without sufficient intelligence, ground support or adequate backup preparations.
As a result, three officials said, the attacking SEAL team found itself dropping onto a reinforced al Qaeda base defended by landmines, snipers, and a larger than expected contingent of heavily armed Islamist extremists.
And as expected, guess who Trump and his team are blaming for this?
Former President Barack Obama.
According to a White House official, the Obama administration had signed off on the raid last month, but delayed it for operational reasons.
An official said: The decision was made to leave it to the incoming administration, partly in the hope that more and better intelligence could be collected.
But of course, Trump and his team didn t bother to collect more information before proceeding, especially since Trump truly believes that he is like, a smart person.
Unfortunately, he s not smart enough to know he should gather current information before pressing green on a raid.Trump now has the blood of a U.S. Navy SEAL on his hands, but don t expect him to take accountability for it.
This could have been avoided and should have ever happened.
Unfortunately, it will probably happen again because Trump and his team are too incompetent to learn from their mistakes.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images