The New York Daily News has never been subtle with their covers.
This is especially true when the subject of said covers is Donald Trump.
Therefore, it comes as no surprise that its Sunday cover will be one of its most explosive yet, considering that Trump spent his Saturday leveling an extraordinary claim at President Barack Obama: That Obama tapped the phones at Trump Tower during the presidential campaign.On the cover, the Daily News shows an unhinged photo of Trump, with a huge headline reading NUTS!
Underneath are bullet points highlighting Trump s Saturday Twitter insanity and baseless claims.
Here is the image, via Twitter:Tomorrow's front page NUTS!
@realDonaldTrump claims Obama tapped his phones before election https://t.co/B1yJ9KalPd pic.twitter.com/cr2NgJ3UqH New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) March 5, 2017The NUTS!
part is most important, of course.
We can no longer afford to ignore a very important fact: The man currently occupying the Oval Office is dangerously unhinged.
His behavior becomes more outrageous and erratic every day.
He lies pathologically, peddles conspiracy theories, threatens the free press, decries any story he doesn t like as fake news, and holds his officials hostage and forces them to lie repeatedly to the American public as well.There have been some brave souls in Congress who have openly questioned the president s mental stability most notably Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA), Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA).
However, the Democrats are not in control, so they can do nothing to put safeguards in place to keep Trump s instability from endangering the nation even more than he has already.
So, it s time for the GOP to step up and put country before party, and admit that they know that Donald Trump is stark raving mad and has no business being president.Until then, thank you journalists at papers like the New York Daily News for speaking truth to power.
It just might be the Fourth Estate that saves us after all.Featured image via Olivier Douliery Pool/Getty Images