It was only last week that Donald Trump was calling on Qatar to stop funding terrorism, even taking credit for Gulf nations blacklisting the country, despite U.S.
Cabinet officials claiming the move was impeding their campaign against ISIS.
Obviously, Trump s first move was to take to Twitter:So good to see the Saudi Arabia visit with the King and 50 countries already paying off.
They said they would take a hard line on funding Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2017 extremism, and all reference was pointing to Qatar.
Perhaps this will be the beginning of the end to the horror of terrorism!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2017 The nation of Qatar has historically been a funder of terrorism at a very high level, Trump later said in the Rose Garden.
I decided, along with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, our great generals, and military people, the time had come to call on Qatar to end its funding, they have to end that funding and its extremist ideology.
But that was last week.
People change, feelings change, and why would the master deal-maker let some silly little thing like the War on Terror or people s safety get in the way of making some serious cash?
That s why Trump authorized Qatar to purchase over $21 billion worth of weapons from the US, with the first part of the deal, worth $12 billion, being signed when Qatar s Defense Minister met with U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis on Wednesday.
We are pleased to announce today the signing of the letter of offer and acceptance for the purchase of the F-15QA fighter jets, with an initial cost of $12 billion dollars, the Qatari Defense Minister wrote in a statement on Wednesday afternoon.
We believe that this agreement will propel Qatar s ability to provide for its own security while also reducing the burden placed upon the United States military in conducting operations against violent extremism.
The State Department doesn t see a conflict in interests with the deal, rationalizing it by pointing out it will take several years to build the 36 American-made F15s in order to fill the sale We are confident that Qatar can address its remaining issues within this timeframe, prior to delivery, a State Department official said.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images