Apparently, Ted Cruz is so hated that even Fox News is now defending Obamacare.
It truly must be a cold day in hell.During an appearance on Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace just before Iowans head to the polls to vote for their choice of who should be the Republican presidential nominee, Ted Cruz found himself being called out for his most persistent lies about the Affordable Care Act.Cruz has repeatedly claimed that Obamacare has caused massive job losses and that it has caused more people to go without health insurance.
But both have been debunked by the facts, something Wallace pointed out much to the annoyance of Cruz.
The fact checkers say you re wrong, Wallace said.
Since that law went into effect, the unemployment rate fell from 9.9% to 5% as 13 million new jobs were created, and 16.3 million people who were previously uninsured now have coverage.
Don t get me wrong, there are plenty of problems with Obamacare, but more people have jobs and health insurance than they did before Obamacare.
Of course, Cruz responded by accusing unfair fact-checkers of being liberal editorial journalists who have made it their mission to defend Obamacare.
Chris Wallace couldn t believe that Cruz would deny the facts so adamantly.
There s certainly no question that more people have jobs and more people health insurance, he said.
But Cruz continue to argue, and even treated Wallace like a child by telling him, Don t interrupt me.
Undeterred, Wallace continued to press the fact that thirteen million new jobs have been created and nailed Cruz for trying to change the subject.Cruz claimed that the 13 million jobs is a historically slow rate of job creation and went on to tell a bullshit story about how small business owners have come up to him telling him that they are praying for the repeal of Obamacare.
And then he attempted to steal Bernie Sanders platform by attacking the wealthy one percent and pretending to be a man of the people.
Cruz even had the gall to claim that the income gap is President Obama s fault.Turning to what Cruz would replace Obamacare with, Wallace pointed out that conservative think-tanks agree that selling insurance across state lines, expanding health savings accounts and making insurance portable between jobs would have almost no effect in giving people who are not uninsured health coverage.
Faced with that fact, Cruz lashed out at the conservative think-tanks and claimed that they are not accurate.
Basically, he threw them under a bus.Here s the video via YouTube.Cruz is dead wrong about Obama overseeing a historically slow rate of job creation.
The fact is that 94,000 jobs have been created per month under President Obama and that ranks above Ford, Bush, Bush II, and Eisenhower.
The true loser in this category is George W. Bush, who only saw 21,000 jobs created per month during his presidency.Here s a chart showing exactly that via USNews.In short, this was yet another terrible day for Ted Cruz as he desperately tries to rebound from the rough night he had during the last GOP Debate, a debate that Republicans say Cruz overwhelmingly lost.And continually repeating lies that most Americans know have been repeatedly debunked isn t helping his case at all.
The media, fact-checkers, and conservative think-tanks all say Cruz is wrong and his healthcare plan isn t a viable replacement for a program that has insured 13 million Americans, many for the first time.Ted Cruz should be thankful that Wallace didn t continue pressing him because if the discussion about Obamacare had lasted much longer, Cruz would have embarrassed himself even more than he already did.
Kudos to Fox News for actually calling out Cruz on his lies.
Featured Image from Pete Souza