This morning, President-elect made yet another disastrous announcement over Twitter, when he send out a tweet that called for the cancellation of the Air Force One contract.
The contract, which was for an update on the presidential plane, was apparently too much money and Trump wants to do away with the deal.
And as expected, Trump s reasoning behind this was riddled with misinformation.Trump tweeted that he was going to cancel the contract with Boeing because of the hefty $4 billion price tag.
However, $4 billion is practically a mysterious, made-up number from Trump no one knows where he got that number.
According to reports, the Air Force would only cost $1.6 billion for the project, which included SEVERAL planes.
Trump is blindly throwing out a number more than twice that amount, for only one plane.
Trump tweeted: Boeing is building a brand new 747 Air Force One for future presidents, but costs are out of control, more than $4 billion.
Cancel order!
TwitterOf course, Trump tweeting falsehoods is hardly a surprise at this point but he made it worse by addressing the press shortly after his tweet.
During his brief moment with the press, one reporter asked Trump: Sir, you tweeted about canceling the contract about the new Air Force One?
Trump gloated and made this ridiculous announcement even worse by saying this: Well, the plane is totally out of control.
It s going to be over $4 billion.
It s for Air Force One program, and I think it s ridiculous.
Then, Trump attacked Boeing and accused the company of scamming America (obviously, the irony of this is lost on him).
He said: I think Boeing is doing a little bit of a number.
We want Boeing to make a lot of money, but not that much money.
You can watch the interview below: The insanity of this whole thing is that Trump is supposedly cancelling this deal over its large (made up) price tag, but he s thinking nothing of costing tax payers $1 million per day to pay for the security costs while he stays in the Trump Tower instead of the White House.Featured image via Maddie McGarvey / Getty Images