Please pray for the victims and their families At least 27 people have been killed inside a Texas church including a two-year-old child after a gunman dressed in full combat gear opened fire during the morning service before cops shot him dead.The shooting happened at the First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs, where around 50 people usually attend service, according to local reports.According to @ksatnews a witness reported seeing a man in full gear come into the church & unloaded several rounds.
https://t.co/2K0aJZ3D79 pic.twitter.com/EFbWIKnX9D Nick Short (@PoliticalShort) November 5, 2017Wilson County Commissioner Albert Gamez Jr told CNN that at least 27 people have been killed in the shooting, but the death toll is expected to climb.
My heart is broken, Gamez said.
We never think where it can happen, and it does happen.
It doesn t matter where you re at.
In a small community, real quiet and everything, and look at this, what can happen.
Albert Gamez, Jr., Commissioner of Wilson Co. TX gives his account of the scene in this video: Alert: TEXAS CHURCH ATTACK: 27 Dead, Official Says Dozens Wounded Suspect Dead After Chase FBI On Scenepic.twitter.com/LlptnMl2d9 J_Patriot_Train (@r_little_finger) November 5, 2017At least 24 others were injured in the horrific shooting.
Witnesses said a man in full gear walked inside the church and opened fire just before 11.30am.FoxNews At least 20 feared dead in mass shooting at Texas church https://t.co/Li9uiH7HbK pic.twitter.com/Sgl96YEEzmAt least 20 feared de (((T W))) (@timgw37) November 5, 2017A woman wrote on Facebook that she saw the man flee the scene in his vehicle before crashing it not far from her daughter s house.
She said he then ran on foot and was pursued by police.The shooter was killed after the brief foot chase into Guadalupe County, according Guadalupe County Sheriff s Office spokesman Robert Murphy.But it s still unclear if the gunman shot himself or was taken down by authorities.The suspect, who has not been identified, is dead and there is no longer an active shooter threat, according to police.Police could not give an exact number of victims shot in the attack, but witnesses said they heard as many as 20 shots fired.Dana Fletcher, who owns a store in Sutherland Springs, told CNN: It s just awful there were emergency responders everywhere.
Neighbors in the area said they may have heard the shooter reload multiple times.
Another witness at the scene said a two-year-old was also shot in the attack.For entire story: Daily Mail