Since taking office, Donald Trump has surrounded himself with white nationalists and conspiracy theorists, which has made him and even bigger threat to the nation.Trump has repeatedly demonstrated over the last two months that he has absolutely no idea what he is doing and that he basically does whatever his advisers tell him to do.Top adviser Steve Bannon is the de facto president who fills Trump s head with falsehoods and conspiracies, contributing to the atmosphere of infighting and chaos that has gripped the White House and led to decisions that screw over the American people in favor of the racist agenda Trump s minions are pursuing.As we all know, Trump openly accused President Obama of wiretapping him after reading a conspiracy theory on Breitbart, a conservative website that Bannon controlled prior to joining Trump s team.Of course, Trump s accusation was baseless and he has not presented any evidence to prove his claim.The fact that Trump is a puppet controlled by white nationalists who are feeding him conspiracy theories to advance their cause is incredibly frightening, and it was the subject of a discussion by Joy Reid and her Saturday morning panel on MSNBC, a discussion that made it clear why Trump s associates and his behavior are more dangerous than ever before.Reid began by pointing out that Trump is listening to people like Sean Hannity, who literally told Trump to purge anyone who may disagree with him and referred to them as saboteurs.
Now Trump is actually beginning to purge the government as Hannity demanded.Former CIA terrorism expert Jack Rice responded by saying that Trump should be more worried about Russia and the grip they have over his administration.Then the discussion turned to Trump s closest advisers, who appear to be the real power in the White House.
I think actually that is a very important point to make because you do have a president who is surrounded by sort of an alt-state and that is Bannonites I don t know what you call them, Reid said.
They want this Christian white nationalistic ethno-state, I guess.
And people like Steve Bannon, people like Sebastian Gorka, and Stephen Miller.
There is a core of people around Donald Trump who want him to keep believing conspiracy theories, who want him to essentially believe President Obama can wiretap him from Hawaii or wherever he happens to be.
National security expert Malcolm Nance then chimed in and frighteningly reminded everyone that Trump has 4,000 nuclear weapons at his disposal and that the right conspiracy theory could make him fearful and paranoid enough to use them.
We have a conspiracy theory president and I m not even sure whether you can put those three words together in a tangible sentence and use the word president, Nance began.
He seems to be buying every crazy idea that s out there.
Now, granted, the man can t seem to tell the truth about anything.
This is dangerous and, as much as it sounds amusing, he controls 4,000 atomic weapons.
He controls the levers of power in the United States.
if he s going out with Steve King and others in Congress and saying that the president of the the former president of the United States wiretapped a conversation he had a few weeks ago with the president of Australia, I mean we have got a very serious problem here.
Here s the video via YouTube.If that s not enough to convince every American in this country that Trump should not be president, then this country is truly f*cked.Featured Image: Jim Lo Scalzo Pool/Getty Images