Donald Trump made an appearance last night on the Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon when Fallon informed the Republican front-runner that he would be performing a mock interview with him for the presidency.
The usually aggressive Trump seemed mild mannered at times and appeared tired, perhaps from the toll that an election campaign can take on someone.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xb7jWw5lft4]However, Trump stuck to his previous controversial statements about Muslims, saying that although he has Muslim friends, they should be banned from entering the United States.
He also took a few shots at Hillary Clinton, saying that he doesn t understand how she s not beating Bernie Sanders.
Trump said: I mean, how can you lose like this?
He really isn t even a Democrat.
But he said he s a socialist, and I think he may be a step beyond a socialist.
He also said that he would easily beat Hillary Clinton in the general election: I m winning against Hillary one-on-one.
And I haven t even started on her yet, although last week I did a little bit.
But we haven t even started.
Later, during the mock interview, Trump was asked about his strengths to be president.
His response was ironic since he described himself as a unifier of people, drawing uncomfortable laughter from the audience.This is the same Trump who has frightened millions of Hispanic and Muslim Americans in the United States with his rhetoric.Here is a transcript of the mock interview:Describe Yourself.
I m an extraordinarily handsome person.
I have a beautiful head of hair.
I was always a good student, and I always worked hard.
Why do you want this Job?
Because I wanna make America great.
What are your strengths?
I think, believe it or not, I can bring people together.
What are your weaknesses?
That I never forget.
I m too nice too long, and when I become somebody takes advantage of a situation, I become too bad for too long.
Are you willing to relocate?
I love the White House.
This is a high-profile position.
Is media attention something you d be comfortable with?
Not at all.
I d be very uncomfortable.
Featured Image Via YouTube Screenshot.