In an amazing take down of Fox News contributor Stacey Dash, comedian Anthony Anderson compared her to Ann Coulter.Dash has received heavy criticism ever since she called for ending BET and the NCAA Image Awards in her backwards solution to ending racism in response to the condemnation of the Oscars for the lack of diversity.
We have to make up our minds, Dash said on Fox News.
Either we want to have segregation or integration.
If we don t want segregation, then we need to get rid of channels like BET and the BET Awards and the Image Awards, where you re only awarded if you re black.
If it were the other way around, we would be up in arms.
It s a double standard.
There shouldn t be a Black History Month, the Clueless actress continued.
We re Americans.
Period.
Well, the backlash was swift and merciless as BET and others responded by reminding Dash that she has made several appearances on television shows and music videos aired on the channel.But Anthony Anderson also chimed in on Friday while hosting the 47th Annual NAACP Image Awards and it s fair to say that Dash got totally roasted by the Black-ish star.
Everybody give a round of applause for Stacey Dash!
he began.
What the hell is she doing here?
Doesn t she know that the Fox network is using her?
She s just an Ann Coulter dipped in butterscotch.
That s all she is.
Baby, don t let them use you!
Come back to the black people and get back to work on some of those beautiful C-movies that you used to do!
Anderson must have hit a nerve, because Dash responded with a weird post on Twitter.Well it s funny how woman who weighs 105 wet!
Can get grown ass men to act like llittle girls!
Haha Stacey Dash (@REALStaceyDash) February 6, 2016Stacey Dash deserves the criticism she has been getting lately and Anthony Anderson made a spectacular comparison.The fact is that without BET or the NAACP, African-Americans would be even more underrepresented in the entertainment industry than they are now.
Perhaps one day, there won t be a need for the Image Awards or BET.
But that s going to depend on whether or not mainstream awards show like the Oscars get their act together and start treating black actors and actresses with the respect they deserve.
Featured image from Facebook