Donald Trump told the crowd at a Florida rally just how bad Hillary Clinton s mental stamina is, but at the same time, he couldn t even manage to figure out what day of the week it was: Now, Hillary Clinton, commonly referred to as Crooked Hillary .
Hillary Clinton gave a speech today having to do with economic development, having to do with a lot of different things.
Short speech, always very short.
You know?
She makes the speech, she turns off the teleprompter.
Look, what happens, she gives a short speech then she goes home, goes to sleep, she shows up two days later.
Remember, short circuit.
Remember that, right?
Short circuit.Last week, Clinton said that she may have short-circuited her answer to a question about the investigation into her private email server during a television interview.
Trump latched onto the comment vehemently as proof that she isn t mentally fit to be president while attacking her physical health as well.Trump also told the crowd: I watched Hillary today, which was really boring.
It s hard to watch.
I have an obligation to watch.
Fortunately, she never goes on very long because she wants to go home.
Trump was insistent that Clinton isn t mentally competent, but twice during the rally he totally screwed up what day of the week it was, even after he was corrected.
As reported by The Guardian: By the way, is there any place to be that s better than a Friday night in Florida at a Trump rally?
No place.
A few supporters shouted: It s Thursday!
Later he said: We joke.
It s Friday night and we re having fun.
More supporters yelled: It s Thursday!
but he appeared to assume it was more cheering.Although probably not an accident, Trump also had a hard time with his comprehension of just how many people had actually come out to hear him speak.
This place is incredible.
We ve got 2,000 people outside trying to get in, Trump said.
However, according to The Guardian, there were still hundreds of empty places in the 8,000-seat arena.
Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images