The Bundy brothers and their militia continue to play patriots at an Oregon wildlife reserve, but the rest of the world hasn t joined in their revolution.
In fact, people are getting really good at mocking them.As the FBI announced that it would be cutting off power to the building and supplies have already begun to run low (who knew you needed more than a few boxes of Ramen noodles to sustain you on an months-long occupation of a federal building?
), things are looking pretty desperate for the anti-government fanatics hold up within.
It s an open question of how long they will stubbornly insist on staying out in the cold to prove how macho they are.Other than a few baffling interviews, and one hilarious blue tarp, the Bundy s have been mostly quiet.
The rest of the world is left to wonder what they are getting up to in there on these cold nights.Needless to say, Twitter began speculating and the right-wing militia isn t going to like what they came up with.Under the hashtag #bundyeroticfanfic, people from around the country are describing sometimes in lurid detail the romantic encounters the Bundy s and their companions may be having while trying to keep warm.
The results are oftentimes laugh out loud funny.He wanted snacks, but what he needed was for Cletus' calloused hands to explore every inch of his body #bundyeroticfanfic L30 L005 (@LeoLoos13) January 6, 2016"Jason pressed Jed against a rack of "Birds of Oregon" books; his breath was sweet with jerky.
Somewhere, an egret cried" #bundyeroticfanfic colin meloy (@colinmeloy) January 6, 2016#bundyeroticfanfic The small improvised washtub was filled with two things: Cletus and Cheetos.
"C'mon, Ammon," he purred.
"Snack time."
Skip Mendler (@smendler) January 7, 2016#bundyeroticfanfic Ammon hesitated.
Isn t this against the laws of nature?
Laws?
panted Dwight, We make our own laws, Ammon."
Remittance Girl (@remittancegirl) January 7, 2016Any my personal favorite:@colinmeloy Zek had fired some big guns before, but this would be his first true magnum.
#bundyeroticfanfic John Wegner (@Rtheny) January 6, 2016Mockery has been one of the most effective weapons against the Bundy s pathetic attempt at revolution.
In interview after interview, Cliven Bundy s son, Ammon, spoke breathlessly about how noble and important the occupation of this wildlife refuge was for freedom.
The reality was anything but awe-inspiring.
Ammon has made repeated calls for others to join him and bring supplies, but few have heeded his call.
The relentless mocking paired with the group s own embarrassing moments in front of the camera have made even sympathetic right-wing anti-government nut jobs like Sean Hannity recoil.When you ve lost Hannity, you ve lost your right-wing revolution.Ironically, it turns out that all the guns they brought along with them while they were dreaming of a showdown with the government didn t stand a chance against the relentless mockery they have received from the internet.
Their cause was doomed to fail, but it s hard to imagine they anticipated it failing because people couldn t stop laughing at them.
That probably stings a lot worse than the cold wind.Feature image via YouTube