If you recall the 2012 election, which seemed a lesson in decorum compared to the 2016 presidential election, you probably remember that Mitt Romney s campaign was partially derailed by one comment.
No, not the 47 percent comment, although that was likely the final straw.
The first time Americans began to realize just how out of touch Romney was was when he was asked about women s equality, he cited that he had binders full of women he could consult.Well, Trump had his binder full of women moment on Friday and it was even worse, and more gender blind, than Romney s. When asked what women he would name to his cabinet, he was only able to name one, and that was Ivanka.
Okay, to be fair, there was a second woman, the reporter asking him softball questions, who also happened to be a former Miss Florida contestant.The interview was with First Coast News in Florida, and reported in Buzzfeed.
(Reporter and former Miss Florida contestant, Angelina) SAVAGE: who you would actually put into office as one of your first female, in your cabinet?
TRUMP: Well, we have so many different ones to choose.
I can tell you everybody would say, Put Ivanka in, put Ivanka in, you know that, right?
She s very popular, she s done very well, and you know Ivanka very well.
But there really are so many that are really talented people like you, you re so talented, but I don t know if your viewers know that.SAVAGE: Is this breaking news?
Am I gonna be in the cabinet?TRUMP: But Angelia is she is very talented.SAVAGE: Is that a yes?TRUMP: Sounds like it to me.Here s the video:Trump seems to feel that if he parades Ivanka around to enough campaign events, he will somehow magically win over women.
It s not working.
Only 28 percent of young women are fooled by Trump s transparent attempt at seeming woman friendly.
Fewer than half of all voters see Ivanka favorably.
That s bad for Trump s campaign, who has long had a difficult time reaching the female part of the electorate.
Perhaps it s time he stop flirting with beautiful women and showing that he can support a woman who isn t model perfect.Featured image via Mark Wallheiser at Getty Images