Donna Brazile might want to watch her back!
She shot back at critics (the Hillary camp) of her new book that alleges proof of a rigged Democratic 2016 primary, saying they can go to hell.
This is a lesson of 2016, Brazile said on ABC s This Week.
If I released it next year, they would say, Donna, you re impacting our 2018 races For those who are telling me to shut up, they told Hillary that a couple of months ago.
You know what I tell them?
Go to hell.
I m going to tell my story.
In an exclusive interview with ABC s Stephanopoulos, Brazile angrily defended her description of events in the book Hacks: The Inside Story of the Break-ins and Breakdowns that Put Donald Trump in the White House.
In the book, she describes a dysfunctional, debt-ridden DNC she took over after the ouster of Debbie Wasserman Schultz.Brazile has sharp words for her and President Barack Obama for their financial mismanagement of the DNC, and she also rips the Clinton campaign for treating her poorly and having stupid and stiff messages.RUSSIAN PROPAGANDA?More than 100 Clinton staffers, including campaign manager Robby Mook and top aide Huma Abedin, signed a scathing letter about Brazile s book, accusing her of buying into Russian propaganda about Clinton s health and painting a picture of the campaign that wasn t true.
If they don t like my book, don t buy it, Brazile said of the letter.
I ve gotten emails from Democrats, passionate Democrats, who say they feel betrayed by all of this.
Any regrets?
Stephanopoulos asked.
Do I regret taking on the job cleaning up everybody s mess?
Brazile asked.
Taking all of the incoming?
Being unable to spend funds that I raised?
Do I regret being on the road 100 percent of the time?
Being hacked by the Russians?
Being harassed?
Getting death threats?
Do I regret any of that?
Brazile said this was worse than Hurricane Katrina in terms of the emotional toll for her.Brazile was asked if she mentioned dropping Clinton for Biden to top Clinton staffer Charlie Baker, Brazile snapped, I kept my own counsel.
I was the chair of the party, George!
This interview along with the other interviews Brazile has given are all very eyeopening to the fact that the Clinton machine totally took over the DNC.
It s ugly!Brazile even says she felt like she was treated like a slave CHECK OUT ROBBY MOOK AT THE 2:00 POINT WHERE HE TAKES OUT HIS EARPIECE NOT A CNN EARPIECE!Mook is clearly a deer in the headlights I don t know I, I, I Via: WFB