CNN s Brian Stelter tweeted out the news that CNN staffers won t be attending the White House Christmas party Yes, another liberal temper tantrum all because President Trump called them out for being fake news.
The funny thing is that right after Stelter s tweet, Sarah Sanders tweeted out the best response EVER!
She s so funny!W.H.
is hosting a Christmas party for media this Friday at 2pm.
Lots of curiosity about who will & will not attend.
CNN staffers will not, per @JasonSchwartz https://t.co/HL8UmXsqrz Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) November 29, 2017A CNN spokesperson said it would be inappropriate to celebrate with him as his invited guests .This temper tantrum comes after POTUS tweeted about CNN being fake news :.
@FoxNews is MUCH more important in the United States than CNN, but outside of the U.S., CNN International is still a major source of (Fake) news, and they represent our Nation to the WORLD very poorly.
The outside world does not see the truth from them!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 25, 2017POLITICO reported:Adding fuel to its growing feud with President Donald Trump, CNN told POLITICO it will be boycotting the White House Christmas party for the media this year.
CNN will not be attending this year s White House Christmas party, a CNN spokesperson said.
In light of the President s continued attacks on freedom of the press and CNN, we do not feel it is appropriate to celebrate with him as his invited guests.
We will send a White House reporting team to the event and report on it if news warrants.
The annual event, scheduled for Friday at 2 p.m., is typically seen as a time when reporters and their bosses can mingle freely with administration members, but Trump s posture toward the press has been uniquely aggressive.THEN SARAH SANDERS POSTED THE FUNNIEST TWEET IN RESPONSE TO THE CNN TEMPER TANTRUM:Christmas comes early!
Finally, good news from @CNN.
https://t.co/3GeJysIol3 Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 29, 2017Go Sarah!
The crybaby CNN staffers will lose in the end.
They ll miss out on a great party at the White House!