Thanks to the persistence of Judicial Watch, the emails from Huma Abedin were finally released today.
Within those emails are classified documents that are heavily redacted .
Chris Farrell just commented on the documents: A national security crime that Mr. Comey thinks is no big deal .
@JudicialWatch Director of Investigations Chris Farrell on release of Huma Abedin emails found on Anthony Weiner's laptop: "Yet another really grave national security crime that Mr. Comey apparently thinks is no big deal."
https://t.co/xAzOlbGImt pic.twitter.com/YwvR2CIL3E FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) December 29, 2017Tom Fitton of Judicial Watch:Thanks to @JudicialWatch, we know classified info from Hillary Clinton s email server was on Anthony Weiner's laptop.
There is an urgent need for a criminal investigation by the @RealDonaldTrump Justice Department.
pic.twitter.com/rTCS8zD206 Tom Fitton (@TomFitton) December 29, 2017New York Post Reports:The State Department Friday released a trove of emails from Huma Abedin that the feds discovered on her husband Anthony Weiner s laptop including at least five that were marked as classified.
Most of the emails were heavily redacted because they contained classified material but one that was sent on Nov. 25 2010 was addressed to Anthony Campaign, an apparent address belonging to Weiner.The message contained a list of talking points for then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who was prepping to make a call to Prince Saud of Saudi Arabia to warn him about sensitive documents that had been given to WikiLeaks by then-Army intelligence officer Bradley Manning.
I deeply regret the likely upcoming WikiLeaks disclosure, read one of the talking points.
This appears to be the result of an illegal act in which a fully cleared intelligence officer stole information and gave it to a website.
The person responsible will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law the message continued.
This is the kind of information we fear may be released: details of private conversations with your government on Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan.
State was expected to dump roughly 2,800 emails as a result of a court case won by the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch.Thanks to @JudicialWatch, State Department now posting government docs from Clinton/Abedin found on Anthony Weiner laptop.
Weiner campaign received classified info through Abedin/Clinton emails.
Docs being posted here: https://t.co/dHCRPEk3gn Tom Fitton (@TomFitton) December 29, 2017This is a major victory, Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton, said in a statement.
After years of hard work in federal court, Judicial Watch has forced the State Department to finally allow Americans to see these public documents.