Earlier today, an audio recording surfaced of Donald Trump talking about working really hard to fuck a married woman eight months after he married Melania.
But this is about more than just a leaked extramarital affair; he actually tried to assault this woman and he bragged that he just starts kissing beautiful women, which is likewise sexual assault.His inner circle and surrogates don t know what to do with this.Mike Pence actually dodged his press pool and then disappeared when they asked him about it.
Politico s Matthew Nussbaum got that on video and posted it to Twitter earlier today:My attempt to get Pence to respond to the Trump tape.
He ignored the question.
pic.twitter.com/jgv5rUJZIb Matthew Nussbaum (@MatthewNussbaum) October 7, 2016Perhaps, when he s had a chance to calm down, he ll tell the press that Trump never said those things he said.
He s good at that.
Maybe he ll even say the audio was doctored, the Washington Post s David Farenthold obviously fabricated it, whatever.
It ll be the only way that Mr. Mike Family Values Pence can deal with this without cracking up.One of Pence s campaign staffers said that his hasty departure with no comment to his press pool had nothing to do with this news.
We call bullshit on that.Ben Carson, another staunch defender of family values, and who s one of Trump s surrogates now for whatever reason, said through his spokesman that this is no big deal, because everyone cheats on their spouse: You know, these things happen.
I m sure somebody could find a video of Bill Clinton talking like this are we gonna say Bill Clinton was the same person as president that he is today?
Obviously not.People commit adultery.
It happens.
Ministers.
Heads of state.
Everyday people.
People are human, they do human things.
It s nothing unusual that somebody committed adultery on their spouse.
Women do it.
Men do it.
Should we be shocked by it?
No.
The difference is that Republicans tried to argue, back in the day, that Bill Clinton s sexual escapades made him unfit to be President.
They felt, at the time, that presidents should be held to a higher standard.
Yet here s Ben Carson, a staunch evangelical and Republican, basically saying, Eh.
Everyone does it.
So what?
Others are not so quick to defend him, though.
Paul Ryan, who had finally managed to swallow his bile enough to appear with Trump, disinvited him to the Wisconsin event tomorrow and will appear alone.He said: I am sickened by what I heard today.
Women are to be championed and revered, not objectified.
I hope Mr. Trump treats this situation with the seriousness it deserves and works to demonstrate to the country that he has greater respect for women than the clip suggests.
RNC Chairman Reince Priebus, who has spent an awful lot of time defending Trump from various attacks since the July convention, blasted him: No woman should ever be described in these terms or talked about in this manner.
Ever.
And one of his own campaign advisers said: This should have never happened.
I wish it had never happened.
I think I know that men talk this way sometimes, but it s nothing I would ever want to hear or condone or approve of.
My reaction is it s appalling.
It s just flat out appalling.
The adviser said, Another day in Trump world I hate it.
Trump s campaign did issue an apology, but it was lukewarm and backhanded and tried to deflect some of the backlash by saying Bill Clinton was probably worse.And so it goes.
If Bill Clinton was unfit to serve because of his extramarital affairs, then what s Trump for sexually assaulting women and openly bragging about it?
The GOP will never coalesce around a response for this.Featured image by Ethan Miller/Getty Images