Tomi Lahren, the overly-emotional, angry and vitriolic face of new-age conservatism has been suspended at The Blaze after admitting she is indeed pro-choice.
The revelation, which has spurned outcry from both the left and the right, has reportedly left her suspended from her popular show.During a Friday appearance on The View Lahren admitted she is pro-choice, and accused small government Republicans who are pro-life of being hypocrites.
Lahren s exact comments were:I am a constitutional, y know, someone that loves the Constitution.
I m someone that s for limited government.
So I can t sit here and be a hypocrite and say I m for limited government but I think the government should decide what women do with their bodies.
I can sit here and say that, as a Republican and I can say, you know what, I m for limited government, so stay out of my guns, and you can stay out of my body as well.The revelation angered many on the right, naturally.
So much so that conservatives have turned against herThe Outset s Danielle Butcher, an anti-feminist conservative, lambasted Lahren as a shill in her latest article, writing:The Republican Party is a big-tent party, and an individual needn t adhere to each plank in the party platform to have a space to stand.
If you believe in limited government, free market capitalism, and fiscal responsibility by all means consider yourself a conservative.There is not, however, room in the Republican Party for shills.Lahren s acceptance of abortion would not be so outrageous were it not for her implied rejection of it.
As OUTSET Contributor Kareim Oliphant tweeted, Tomi Lahren lambasts abortion with righteous indignation only to reveal she s pro-choice.
This is your principled conservative leader?
This is a keen observation, as Lahren has previously tweeted, Illegals have rights in the USA but not the unborn?
and included segments in her show ranting and raving against Hillary Clinton s support for gun control, comparing gun deaths to the life that is ended during abortion procedures.So the racism was OK.
The conspiracy theories were OK.
The vitriol and rank anger were A-OK.
But her veiled support for abortion rights?
Too far.But it wasn t just Butcher who blasted Lahren.
Glenn Beck, owner of The Blaze and thus her boss, called her out publicly on Twitter:Wait, libertarian views?
Help me out on Trumpcare, stimulus, and executive orders.
Trump is anything but libertarian.
#intellectualhonesty https://t.co/jlt5sFvQMP Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) March 20, 2017Lahren likes to describe herself as a libertarian, yet sucks up to Trump and his unconstitutional, overreaching immigration orders.
Leave it to Glenn Beck to eat his own (yet again).Apparently Tomi Lahren s stupidity has reached a boiling point as Beck seeks to terminate her contract in September (and possibly before that) and has even suspended her from appearing on her prime-time slot Final Thoughts.
According to the Daily Beast:Right-wing firebrand and rising media star Tomi Lahren has reportedly been suspended by TheBlaze, where she hosts a primetime commentary show.
Lahren, 24, came into controversy over the weekend after a Friday appearance on The View, in which she claimed to be pro-choice and essentially argued that anti-abortion conservatives are hypocrites.
Her comments led to a public scolding from her boss, Glenn Beck, who then used his radio show on Monday morning to subtly jab at her as intellectually dishonest.
According to The Daily Caller, another conservative outlet, Lahren s suspension is in effect for at least one week, and that even though Lahren s contract with the company goes until September she may leave the company before then.
The reasons for her alleged suspension were not revealed in the report.Republicans are turning on their own, and that s quite alright with me.
If it means we don t have to listen to the whiny snowflake that is Tomi Lahren give her uninformed and grossly emotional opinion, we should all celebrate.Featured image via Flickr