When Los Angeles photographer Alex Stone and his team tried to capture photos of a vehicle on a public road in San Diego County they were accosted by a man driving an SUV.Mark Gordon spotted the photographer and got angry so he recklessly drove his vehicle towards them repeatedly in an attempt to do them harm or intimidate them into leaving.
Why don t you go f*cking take pictures of your own f*cking street?
Gordon yells at Stone.Stone very politely informs an agitated Gordon that they are finishing up and will leave shortly, even going so far as to call Gordon sir.
Like many conservatives, Gordon has plastered the back of his vehicle with offensive bumper stickers, including one that says No Hillary.
We know this because Gordon threw his SUV into reverse and angrily squalled his tires to turn the vehicle around so he could try to run Stone and his team down with it.
Move your shit!
Gordon demands as Stone tries to reason with him unsuccessfully.Gordon literally tries to murder Stone with his SUV and Stone barely jumps out of the way in the nick of time.
But Gordon refuses to stop.
Gordon screams at Stone telling him that he s in his driveway and calls him a dickhead.
Stone says they will leave but Gordon makes that difficult because he is blocking their path, essentially refusing to let them leave as he demanded.
He then gets out of his car with the intent of physically harming Stone.
As soon as I slap the f*cking piss out of ya!
he says.Gordon then proceeds to break Stone s phone and refuses to pay for the damages by telling Stone to suck the price out of my dick.
Gordon has since been arrested by law enforcement and charged with assault with a deadly weapon, battery, and vandalism.Here s the video via YouTube.As you can see, the driveway Gordon is complaining about is just a public road.
There does not appear to be an actual driveway off the side of it.
It seems Gordon believes the entire road is his driveway.
Perhaps he thought Stone was part of the mainstream media or something but that still does not excuse his threatening behavior.
Stone was not the aggressor here and the police apparently agree.Gordon is just another angry middle aged white guy who thinks he can get away with bullying people and being a complete asshole toward others.
Now he gets to think about his behavior in a jail cell.Featured image via screenshot