Now that the Women s March successfully outnumbered President Trump s pathetic inauguration (which humiliated and enraged him), there s a new group planning a march in the nation s capital: scientists.For years scientists have become the brunt of the GOP s rage over facts and environmentalism.
Their echos of Well, I m not a scientist was always safeguarded by the intelligence and compassion of President Obama and his commitment to tackling the threat of climate change.Well now those are the days of that past, and we have a president who believes climate change is a hoax made up by the Chinese to make competition harder for the United States.And as such, it should come as no surprise that the new Administration is taking authoritarian measures to clamp down on scientists ability to combat climate change.
From blackouts to gag-orders, agencies responsible for scientific research (Agriculture, EPA, Park Services) have seen their life s work sullied by a petulant man-baby and his band of alternate facts promoting hooligans.Well, like the women of America, they aren t going to take it.Starting from the poplar sharing website Reddit, two scientists called for a March on Washington similar to the Women s March.
In just two days, a Facebook page sprang up, accumulating over 88,000 likes (and still growing rapidly).Dubbed the March for Science, the group hopes to have a protest in D.C. as well as sister cities Seattle and Boston, which have currently have plans in the works.
A date will be announced in about a week, according to the group.In an email to the Washington Post, one of the chairs of the Facebook group, science writer and public health researcher Caroline Weinberg, wrote:We were inspired (well, infuriated) by the current attacks on science from the new administration.
Slashing funding and restricting scientists from communicating their findings (from tax-funded research!)
with the public is absurd and cannot be allowed to stand as policy.With a pledge to be welcoming to all (with special emphasis on the minority community), the visionaries for the march have one simple message: Anyone who believes in empirical science can participate.
That s it.
That s the only requirement.
An inclusive, fact based uprising of intellectuals of all stripes and backgrounds, here to promote the safety and survival of the planet.
Now that s what America is all about.Featured image via Flickr