After the release of nude pictures, that might have been meant as a distraction from Trump s disastrous two weeks beginning with the Democratic National Convention, it s been revealed that Melania Trump may have been modeling without proper documentation.
In other words, she *gasp* may have been an illegal immigrant.
Now, it appears as there have been more very strange things happening with Melania s immigration status.
She might have married another American just four years before becoming Mrs. Trump.The story was broken by Univision, proving that taking away reporter access can backfire on a candidate.
They claim that an immigration attorney who worked for the Trump Organization said Melania obtained a green card based on marriage in 2001.
That was four years before she married Trump.But, Michael Wildes, an immigration attorney who worked for the Trump Organization, told Univision s investigative unit that she obtained a green card four years earlier in 2001, based on marriage.
Melania and Donald Trump were not married until Jan. 22, 2005 at Bethesda-by-the Sea Episcopal Church in Palm Beach, Florida.Wildes asked the Trump campaign for more, and so far, crickets.When asked to explain the marriage discrepancy, Wildes said he would seek clarification, presumably from the Trump Organization.
He later sent an email saying I didn t hear back, sorry.
Wildes is someone who should know.
He was the immigration attorney for Trump s models and for the Miss Universe pageant when it was run by Trump.
According to Univision, he s not a defector from Trump, in fact, he was authorized by the Trump campaign to speak on their behalf.Still, Wildes says there are some things he can t discuss because of privacy issues.The Clinton campaign, officially, anyway, is refusing to make anything of this story.
One former federal prosecutor, who is a Hillary supporter said that it s all moot and ridiculous.
Here s the video:The Clinton supporter is essentially right, but it does point to complete hypocrisy from the Trump campaign.
Trump doesn t care about immigration issues.
He never has.
Trump almost prefers to hire immigrants over Americans, and well, his marriage history proves that he prefers his wives come from elsewhere.
I m sure Democrats would be happy to drop the issue if, in exchange, we received a little intellectual honesty from the Trump campaign.
Instead, Trump will continue bashing immigrants, and even people born in America to immigrant parents, while going home at night to a woman who very well might be one of the illegal immigrants Trump and his supporters love to rant about.