The current occupant of the White House has finally accomplished something for his first 100 days in office; he s considered by American voters to be worse than the country s most hated airline.
United just can t stay out of the news.
In late March, a United Airlines agent at Denver International Airport stopped two teenage girls from boarding a flight because they wore leggings.
Earlier this month a passenger was violently dragged from his seat and down the aisle because the flight was overbooked.
That man, a doctor, had to go to the hospital after the incident.
Also, earlier this month, a man on a United flight back from Mexico was falsely accused of trafficking his white daughter.Trump is even more unfavorable than United Airlines.A whopping 42 percent of those surveyed by Public Policy Polling (PPP) say they prefer United more than Trump.
In contrast, 40 percent favor Trump.We re sure the former reality show star won t be touting these numbers on his Twitter timeline:Pollsters found generally negative attitudes toward United, with 47 percent viewing it unfavorably.
Twenty-three percent see the airline favorably.PPP discovered Trump fares worse than United, with 52 percent of respondents considering him unfavorably and 43 percent favorably.In the survey, United was ranked as America s worst airline.
The aforementioned 69-year-old doctor s attorney said his client suffered a concussion, broken nose and lost two teeth during the incident.Trump s poll numbers are abysmally low, even in other surveys.
The most recent one done by Pew Research shows the alleged president still garnering historically low approval numbers for any president during his first 90 days on the job.To put this in perspective, at this same point in Barack Obama s presidency, four times as many Republicans approved of him as Democrats who approve of Trump now.There is a difference between United and Trump.
United feigns to be a caring airline in its ads, then drags customers off their flights without consequence.
Trump is treating people exactly as he said he would.
Nothing he does comes as a surprise to any of us.
That is, unless you weren t paying attention during his campaign.Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images