Donald Trump and his running mate, Mike Pence, conducted their first joint interview on Saturday.
The interview was conducted by Lesley Stahl on CBS 60 Minutes.
The full interview does not air until Sunday night.
However, CBS released a teaser for the interview that shows that the two candidates are starting to look more like two students forced to work together on a science fair project than a presidential duo.In the preview, Stahl questions Pence about an essay he wrote where he said that he felt that negative campaigning was wrong: You said negative campaigning is wrong.
And a campaign ought to demonstrate the basic decency of the candidate.
With that in mind, what do you think about your running mate s campaign, and the tone and the negativity of it?
I think this is a good man who s been talking about the issues the American people care about, Pence said referring to Trump.Pence said that he wrote the essay a long time ago.
He continued saying that I said campaigns oughta be about something more important than just one candidate s election.
And, and this campaign and Donald Trump s candidacy has been about the issues the American people care about.
Stahl continued to press Pence on the issue of negative campaigning, and that s when Trump decided he needed to jump in to clarify that he is a huge fan of negative campaigning, but Pence does not think that way or share the belief that negative campaigning is great.
We re different people, Trump interrupted.
I understand that.
I ll give you an example.
Hillary Clinton is a liar.
Hillary Clinton, that was just proven last week.
Hillary Clinton you better believe it.
Hillary Clinton is a crook.
Trump continued, only to reiterate that he does, in fact, think that calling people mean names is a great thing to do.
I call her Crooked Hillary.
She s Crooked Hillary, he said.
He won t. I don t, I didn t ask him to do it, but I don t think he should do it because it s different for him.
You can watch the excerpt from the interview below.Featured image via video screenshot