The Los Angeles County School Board has caused an uproar with their right-wing residents because they do not want federal immigration officers inside of schools.
The board voted unanimously on Tuesday to direct staff members at any school not to allow ICE agents inside of schools or provide federal authorities with student data without clearance.
This move has prompted anti-immigration conservatives to lash out because, apparently, they believe children should be hauled out of their classrooms and arrested.Here are some of the comments under the article on the LA Times Facebook page: And the comments under the article on the site were not much better:Well, aren t they just chock full of family values ?
!What s even funnier is that these imbeciles obviously have not ever bothered to look into our countries immigration policies because if they had, this isn t new.
Traditionally immigration officials have not raided places they have deemed sensitive like churches and schools.
In 2011, they made this very clear in a memo that stated:This memorandum sets forth Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) policy regarding certain enforcement actions by ICE officers and agents at or focused on sensitive locations.
This policy is designed to ensure that these enforcement actions do not occur at nor are focused on sensitive locations such as schools and churches The only reason the school board voted on this was to reassure parents, who do not trust the government, that school was safe for their kids.
Ever since nationwide immigration sweeps netted more than a hundred undocumented people last month, parents have been even more frightened.
According to the LA Times:Although there were no raids in L.A. last month, residents are concerned because the city has a large Central American immigrant population.So to Rodriguez, the resolution is, in part, a symbolic gesture to tell families that we stand for the safety of our children, he said.
These are safe spaces.
It s sad that the right-wing is so full of hate, that they want kids to be afraid to go to school.
And if these kids overcome their fear, they want law enforcement agents with guns to rip these children away from their families because they had the audacity to try to receive an education.
How sick is that?
Featured image from Left Wing Nation