Trump has famously said, repeatedly, that he plans to build a wall between Mexico and the United States.
Furthermore, has been firm that Mexico will pay for that wall a claim that has been disputed by multiple former presidents and the treasury secretary of our southern neighbor.
I will say it emphatically: There is no scenario in which Mexico will pay for this wall that is being proposed by the United States presidential hopeful, Mexican Treasury Secretary Luis Videgaray said in March.
But that hasn t stopped Trump and his followers from pushing the issue right into the official Republican Party platform.
In other words, this is not just Trump s dream.
This is now something that every Republican across the nation will attempt to accomplish.
This is really happening, people.But who will pay for it?
The short answer is that we, the taxpayers, will.
But if Trump is elected and we manage to once again hand Congress to the GOP, and every single one of them remains as stupid as they are today, we ll have to deal with one issue: where will we get the materials?Trump s border wall is a goldmine for southern building materials manufacturers a $700 million chunk of the more than $10 billion cost of the wall at the low end is some pretty sweet lucre, after all but the sheer demand will likely outweigh the supply by far.
In fact, a recent report by Bloomberg notes that one of the biggest beneficiaries might be Cemex SAB, a company that is not exactly in the United States.
In fact, as production progresses, they might have to figure out a way to get materials over the wall so construction can continue:The largest cement maker in the Americas would be best positioned to profit from such a large construction project, according to a report by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Other likely beneficiaries include another Mexican company Cemex owns a stake in, Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua SAB, as well as Martin Marietta Materials Inc., Vulcan Materials Co. and CalPortland Co.The project would enrich suppliers of building materials in the border region, Bernstein analysts led by Phil Roseberg wrote in the report.
The wall proposed by the presumptive Republican presidential nominee would probably emulate the design of a barrier separating Israel from the West Bank, much of which was built with precast concrete panels, they said.
The potential cost of the wall with Mexico: $15 billion or more.
As ludicrous as The Trump Wall project sounds (to us at least), it represents a huge opportunity for those companies involved in its construction, Roseberg said in the report.
Despite arguments concerning which government will pay for construction, the large quantities of materials required may necessitate procurement from both sides of the border.
The wall itself isn t the only challenge.
Roseberg says that roads would need to be built just to gain access to the more remote areas the wall would touch.
But not to worry Cemex has operations on both sides of the border to satisfy all of Trump s needs.But why Cemex?
Roseberg s team explains: It is not economically feasible to transport heavy building materials over large distances.
As such, it is the companies with production facilities closest to the border that stand to gain the most as suppliers to The Trump Wall project.
Bloomberg notes that the wall would need 7 million cubic meters of concrete if it extends 1,000 miles, rises 40 feet and reaches 7 feet underground.
these numbers could rise if the wall keeps getting 10 feet taller like he says seemingly every time someone irritates him.
We have assumed that planning and land acquisition would take 1-2 years with a further 2 years for construction itself, Roseberg s team says.
This means that the impact on demand for materials would occur from 2018 at the earliest.
Looks like those rapists and murderers in Mexico will be laughing all the way to the bank if Trump s wall is built.Watch Trump talk about his stupid wall below:Featured image via screenshot