Well, it looks like Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump is throwing his biggest temper tantrum yet.
For days now, he s been complaining about the upcoming GOP debate on Fox News and the fact that Megyn Kelly will be moderating it.
He even went to Twitter and Instagram to poll his followers about if he should even bother attending.
Fox News responded, pretty much calling him a wimp, saying: Sooner or later Donald Trump, even if he s president, is going to have to learn that he doesn t get to pick the journalists we re very surprised he s willing to show that much fear about being questioned by Megyn Kelly.
However, Trump doesn t care if they call him a scaredy-cat or not, he s now completely pulling out of Thursday s Fox debate.
Earlier in the day on Tuesday, he told the press: I probably won t be doing the debate.
I m going to have something else in Iowa.
Now Trump s refusal to attend has been confirmed by his campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, who told Washington Post: He s definitely not participating in the Fox News debate.
His word is his bond.
Apparently, he s boycotting the debate and instead holding an event elsewhere in Iowa to raise money for veterans, including the group Wounded Warriors.
Trump said of Fox News: They re dealing with someone who s a little bit different.
They can t toy with me like they toy with everybody else.
And here s Trump s latest post on Instagram: Campaign Statement on Fox News Debate: https://www.donaldjtrump.com/press-releases/trump-campaign-statement-on-fox-news-debateA photo posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Jan 26, 2016 at 6:16pm PST The hotel magnate is clearly extremely upset that Fox chose Megyn Kelly to moderate the debate, someone who he s had an ongoing heated kerfuffle.
However, Fox News is clearly the one who will have the last laugh, as they told Mediaite earlier: We learned from a secret back channel that the Ayatollah and Putin both intend to treat Donald Trump unfairly when they meet with him if he becomes president a nefarious source tells us that Trump has his own secret plan to replace the Cabinet with his Twitter followers to see if he should even go to those meetings.
And Fox News Roger Ailes stands behind Megyn Kelly, saying: Megyn Kelly is an excellent journalist and the entire network stands behind her she will absolutely be on the debate stage on Thursday night.
They re not about to get bullied around by Donald Trump and his obviously fragile ego, as well as his inability to be criticized to his face.So, to Trump, you go and hold your event.
Hopefully, you raise a lot of money for veterans.
However, if you want to be leader of the free world, sometimes you re going to have to do things you don t agree with, so maybe this proves now, more than ever, that you belong nowhere near the Oval Office.
The debate, and the world, will go on.
Video/Featured image: WaPo