In retaliation of Bruce Springsteen cancelling a concert over the state s anti-LGBT law, a North Carolina Republican whined and stated that he might have to become a Justin Bieber fan now.North Carolina Republicans jammed House Bill 2 into law last month in response to a Charlotte city ordinance that protected LGBT people from discrimination.
But the new law overturns the ordinance, barring cities and counties from passing their own anti-discrimination laws.In addition, the law also prevents cities and counties from raising the minimum wage, allows employers to fire workers for any reason, and outlaws transgender people from using the restroom that corresponds to their gender identity.
Basically, the four-page law makes North Carolina a crappier place to live.As predicted, businesses are not happy about this law and it s already hurting the state as Paypal has cancelled a project in the state that would have created hundreds of jobs.
And most prominently, Bruce Springsteen cancelled a concert in Greensboro rather than perform in a state that discriminates against their own citizens.
To my mind, it s an attempt by people who cannot stand the progress our country has made in recognizing the human rights of all of our citizens to overturn that progress, the legendary rocker wrote in a statement condemning the law.
Some things are more important than a rock show and this fight against prejudice and bigotry which is happening as I write is one of them.
It is the strongest means I have for raising my voice in opposition to those who continue to push us backwards instead of forwards.
And in response, North Carolina GOP Rep. Mark Walker, who is also a pastor, threw a tantrum over the cancellation in an interview with the Hollywood Reporter.Claiming that the law is merely meant to catch imposters who would somehow take advantage of laws protecting transgender people, Walker called Springsteen a bully.
Bruce is known to be on the radical left, Walker whined.
He s got every right to be so, but I consider this a bully tactic.
It s like when a kid gets upset and says he s going to take his ball and go home.
Walker then pointed out upcoming concerts that are coming to the state.
We ve got other artists coming soon Def Leppard, Justin Bieber, Walker said.
I ve never been a Bieber fan, but I might have to go.
Maybe artists who weren t born to run deserve a little bit more support.
Yeah, and now that you ve professed your support of these artists, they should probably consider running as far away from the bigoted state of North Carolina as possible.
Because the last thing Def Leppard and Justin Bieber would want is to be endorsed by a Republican who supports discriminating against people, especially since many of those people are their fans.Walker and his fellow Republicans are the real bullies in North Carolina.
This bill isn t about imposters at all.
That s merely the excuse the GOP used to pass the law despite the fact that there have been zero instances of sex offenders using LGBT protection to defend predatory behavior across 17 states and over 200 cities.Make no mistake, Republicans brought these economic consequences upon their state themselves by legalizing discrimination when they could have followed Charlotte s lead and passed a similar law covering the entire state.
Instead, they chose hate and took the state backwards.Featured image via Wikimedia