In the last several months, Joe Scarborough a one-time Republican politician and now host of MSNBC s Morning Joe has gone so deep into Trumpmania and anti-Obama hysteria that it s hard to imagine his reputation ever recovering.
On a recent Morning Joe broadcast, viewers got to watch as he torched the last bit of his integrity to take yet another cheap shot at President Obama at the expense of both common sense and objective reality.In the episode, Scarborough poured over Obama s recent interview with Fox News and concluded that the president was giving investigators probing Hillary Clinton s email servers coded, hidden messages through the airwaves.
Tin foil hat firmly in place, Scarborough accused Obama of tampering with the investigation.Obama said he wasn t going to talk to the attorney general about the pending investigation, but he just did, he lamented.
Talk about a rigged process.
Scarborough s frequent guest and occasional yes man Bloomberg editor Mark Halperin agreed.
It seemed ill-advised to say, OK, I ve got no connection to this, but here s what I know about it and here s my conclusion, Halperin said on MSNBC.
He should just say, I shouldn t talk about it, Halperin added.
There s a pending investigation and I should keep myself away from it in every way and leave this to the independence of the Justice Department.
I don t know why he went on at such length defending her, because, in theory, he shouldn t really know the facts of the case.
Both men seem to have very little understanding of the investigation or the context in which Obama stated his opinions.
Scarborough in particular seems to have gotten his information from right-wing memes he read online.
At one point, he claimed over 100 agents were working on investigating Clinton s wrongdoing a figure based on a long-debunked right-wing lie started by a Republican politician (for obvious reasons).Equally bogus is the idea that Obama could influence the investigation by stating his personal opinion in a Fox News interview.
Given the fact that the president has repeatedly stood by his former Secretary of State, the premise that FBI agents would be oblivious to which way Obama leaned is laughable.
He, like most of the country, finds the email scandal a waste of time, resources, and money (a lot of money).
It s not exactly exposing nuclear launch codes if he tells reporters that Clinton s emails were mostly harmless that s public record.Not that Scarborough would ever admit it, but even Republican presidents tend to side with their political allies and employees.
George W. Bush, he might recall, was a fierce defender of Vice President Cheney s chief of staff Scooter Libby even after he was found guilty of lying about his boss s leak of an undercover CIA operative.
Bush would later go as far as to commute Libby s sentence just before he left office.Unlike the tangible damage, Cheney s office did to national security, Clinton s email controversy is vague to the point of meaninglessness.
The public has had a hard time getting itself worked up over the scandal because as far as anybody can tell, nothing truly damaging happened.
As both Obama and Clinton have acknowledged, using a private email was careless but it wasn t exactly harmful.And thus Scarborough once again has embarrassed himself with a wild haymaker that failed to land.Featured image via MSNBC