The shooter in Orlando, Omar Mateen, was enraged when he saw two men kissing.
Apparently, that was enough reason for him to go on the worst shooting rampage in U.S. history at a gay nightclub, which has left dozens dead, and dozens more wounded.
While conservatives are busy blaming radical Islam (along with Middle Eastern refugees and President Obama), one man has the most rational tweet there is on this.Quite simply put, Mateen may have pledged himself to ISIS, but ISIS hates the LGBT community and so did Mateen.
Who else hates the LGBT community?If #omarmateen was motivated by radical Islam, his hatred of LGBTQ people is consistent with US religious right and religious freedom laws Captain Renault (@JohnMonch) June 12, 2016BOOM!
That s right, our own right-wing Christians hate the LGBT community.
Of course, they cover their hatred and bigotry with pretty, all-American phrases like religious freedom, and the First Amendment, but they re motivated by the same hate that motivated Mateen.Take a look at North Carolina s anti-LGBT law, which requires people to use the restrooms that correspond to the gender on their birth certificate.
State representative Dan Bishop, the primary sponsor of that law, compared LGBT-equality advocates to the Taliban as justification for that law.
He also damned the LGBT community itself as a major threat to freedom.His constituents support and spread these dangerous ideas, and he gave them their mouthpiece when he authored that law.Ted Cruz, who rose to prominence as the primary architect of GOP obstruction in the Senate, and solidified his reputation as a hard-right Christian bigot while running for president, has also spewed hate about the LGBT community.
He wants to reverse the Supreme Court s marriage equality decision, and he flat-out lies about the threat that transgender women pose to little girls in public restrooms when he voices his support of these idiotic bathroom laws.While Mateen was very likely not influenced by these people, he was influenced by ISIS hatred of the LGBT community.
Yet the attitude is the same Islam and Christianity both consider homosexuality to be a sin.
Both have their radical sects that twist these things into something vile and sadistic that they then use to justify hate crimes and terrorism against the LGBT community.For right-wing Christians to condemn anybody for this shooting, when they themselves spout the same baloney that causes that very hate, is hypocritical at best.
Before pointing the finger at radical Islam, they need to take a good, long look in their mirrors, and remove the logs from their own eyes first.Featured image via MySpace and Twitter