Much of the political world was shocked by the sudden resignation of National Security Adviser Mike Flynn from the administration of President Donald Trump, ostensibly the result of his having been exposed for having lied to Vice President Mike Pence about the content of a phone call Flynn had with a Russian ambassador before the inauguration, exposed by leaks from anonymous sources in the executive branch.According to a piece by Eli Lake of Bloomberg, however, that explanation for Flynn s unexpected departure only three weeks into the new administration has been viewed rather skeptically by some.Instead of simple miscommunications and alleged lies to cover such a mistake up, it is being surmised in some circles that Flynn just fell victim to a political assassination effort launched by holdovers and loyalists of the administration of former President Barack Obama.
There does appear to be a well-orchestrated effort to attack Flynn and others in the administration, explained California GOP Rep. Devin Nunes, chair of the House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee.
From the leaking of phone calls between the president and foreign leaders to what appears to be high-level FISA Court information, to the leaking of American citizens being denied security clearances, it looks like a pattern.
Yesterday, CBS published a timeline that discredits Trump s former national security advisor General Mike Flynn.
Hmmm did Ben Rhodes have anything to do with CBS News publishing this?Indeed, such was the message garnered by The Washington Free Beacon through interviews with multiple anonymous sources both inside and out of the White House in regard to former Obama administration officials and loyalists working quietly from within to sabotage and handicap Trump s agenda.It was believed that the effort to take down Flynn was led by former Obama adviser Ben Rhodes, largely due to Flynn s open opposition to the Iran nuclear deal and plans to expose the hidden details, a deal that Rhodes was instrumental in arranging and securing in 2015.The steady drip of leaks over the past weeks and months regarding Flynn s alleged ties to Russia are believed to have emanated from a veritable task force set up in the shadows of the administration, in the White House and assorted executive branch agencies, by Rhodes and others.One veteran of the national security advisory team told The Free Beacon it was undeniable that there had been a campaign to discredit Flynn that began even before the inauguration, one that seemed similar to the campaign to sell the Iran deal which probably features the same cast of characters.
The biggest problem is the American public s trust in the administration around the White House, sources told The Free Beacon.
The larger issue that should trouble the American people is the far-reaching power of unknown, un-elected apparatchiks in the intelligence community deciding for themselves both who serves in government and what is an acceptable policy they will allow the elected representatives of the people to pursue, the National Security Council official said.
Put aside the issue of Flynn himself.
That nameless, faceless bureaucrats were able to take out a president s national security adviser based on a campaign of innuendo without evidence should worry every American, he added.Flynn has been a target of the left ever since he was forced out of the Obama administration and began to criticize the former president s policies.
It was well-known among insiders that exposing the Iran deal was at the top of Flynn s agenda in the new administration.
The Obama administration knew that Flynn was going to release the secret documents around the Iran deal, which would blow up their myth that it was a good deal that rolled back Iran, a congressional aide with intimate knowledge of the fight over the Iran nuclear deal told The Free Beacon.
So in December, the Obama NSC started going to work with their favorite reporters, selectively leaking damaging and incomplete information about Flynn.
After Trump was inaugurated some of those people stayed in and some began working from the outside, and they cooperated to keep undermining Trump, the aide added, referencing the series of leaks from within the White House targeting Flynn and others.
Last night s resignation was their first major win, but unless the Trump people get serious about cleaning house, it won t be the last.
Conservative Tribune