Trust fund tycoon and wannabe President Donald Trump is well known for his all-out assaults on rivals (perceived and real) in politics and the media.
But The Donald met his match this week, in Mickey Rourke, who shut the GOP front runner down with a string of insults which could even make Trump blush.Rourke took part in a street interview with TMZ, playing ball on a sidewalk with a reporter while shooting the breeze about the Presidential candidate.
Things got real, fast.
Before I throw this first pitch out, I just wanna say, the biggest scumbag on the planet is that maggot with an f in front of it: Donald trump While continuing to pitch some perfect balls, Rourke branded Trump s wife Melania a gold digger: I mean, how could you sleep next to that flabby, fat, piece of sh*t every night?
After briefly diverting off to Rourke s dreams of becoming a baseball player, the interview finishes back on Donald Trump.
There s no other way of putting it: Rourke goes postal on the candidate, with an expletive-laden rant that even Trump would struggle to have conjured.
What sets him off?
Trump s claim to be some sort of tough guy.
He s not a tough guy, Rourke says.
He s a bully and he s a b*tch.
And he can suck my f*cking d*ck.
And I ll meet him a hotel room any f*cking day of the week and give him a Louisville slugger.
Kiss my motherf*cking a**, you b*tch punk c*cksucker.
Ouch.This isn t the first time Rourke has taken a time out to smackdown the Republican frontrunner.
As Rolling Stone reports:In July of 2015, Rourke made it clear he wasn t siding with Trump by saying, I d rather stick a .38 up my ass and pull the trigger than vote for Donald Trump.
A few months later, he called Trump a big mouthed bitch bully and expressed his desire to have 30 seconds in a room with the little bitch to give him a piece of his mind.Donald Trump is yet to make a response.
Perhaps in true playground bully style, the candidate will buckle under the pressure of real opposition.Featured image via Screengrab/Flickr Creative Commons