Clint Eastwood will long be remembered for his influence in Hollywood, but his legacy will always be tainted by his 2012 speech at the Republican National Convention, when he spent the more than 10 minutes talking to a chair.
Now, Trump wants political correctness and Hillary Clinton s voice to get off his lawn.The 86-year-old Eastwood didn t actually say the n-word during this interview with Esquire Magazine, but gosh darn, he s sure offended over the idea that rich old white guys no longer get to decide what s offensive and what s not.Eastwood has his own not-so-loving nickname for Millennials.
He calls them the pussy generation, you know, because of that pesky insistence that everyone be treated with respect.
He s doesn t agree with Trump on everything, but as for all those racist comments coming from Trump, well, Americans should just fucking get over it.
I haven t endorsed anybody.
I haven t talked to Trump.
I haven t talked to anybody.
You know, he s a racist now because he s talked about this judge.
And yeah, it s a dumb thing to say.
I mean, to predicate your opinion on the fact that the guy was born to Mexican parents or something.
He s said a lot of dumb things.
So have all of them.
Both sides.
But everybody the press and everybody s going, Oh, well, that s racist, and they re making a big hoodoo out of it.
Just fucking get over it.
It s a sad time in history.
Eastwood isn t 100 percent sure who he ll vote for, but damn those Millennials again, wanting an education: I d say get to work and start being more understanding of everybody instead of calling everybody names, start being more understanding.
But get in there and get it done.
Kick ass and take names.
And this may be my dad talking, but don t spend what you don t have.
That s why we re in the position we are in right now.
That s why people are saying, Why should I work?
I ll get something for nothing, maybe.
And going around and talking about going to college for free.
I didn t go to college for free.
I mean, it was cheap, because I went to L. A.
City College it wasn t like going to a major university.
But it was okay.
And then, you know, I didn t finish, because I decided to become an actor, ruin my whole life.
[Everyone laughs.]
As for Hillary Clinton, it s unlikely the Republican will vote for her.
He s afraid she ll follow in Obama s footsteps, but there s also another, far more sexist reason: her voice.
When asked what he thinks of Clinton, he said, I mean, it s a tough voice to listen to for four years.
It could be a tough one.
If she s just gonna follow what we ve been doing, then I wouldn t be for her.
That s a tough one, isn t it?
I d have to go for Trump you know, cause she s declared that she s gonna follow in Obama s footsteps.
There s been just too much funny business on both sides of the aisle.
She s made a lot of dough out of being a politician.
I gave up dough to be a politician.
I m sure that Ronald Reagan gave up dough to be a politician.
I guess it s okay to make money from evading taxes, shady business deals and using bankruptcy as a way to pass debt on to taxpayers.
Yes, that s much more trustworthy.
Go Trump.Featured image via Kevin Winters at Getty Images.