(Reuters) - A New Jersey man who worked at the World Trade Center, a young New Yorker, a Belgian mother of two, and five Argentines celebrating their high school graduation 30 years ago were killed in the truck attack on a New York City bike path.
Twelve other people were injured in Tuesday’s attack in lower Manhattan by an Uzbek immigrant who allegedly drove the truck onto the path along the Hudson River.
It was the deadliest attack in the city since Sept. 11, 2001.
U.S. and foreign officials identified the dead as: - Darren Drake, 32, of New Milford, New Jersey.
His father, James Drake, told local news media, that his son was a project manager at Moody’s Investors Service at the World Trade Center, near the scene of the rampage.
- Nicholas Cleves, 23, of New York City.
Cleves was a software engineer who lived in a West Village apartment within biking distance of the Hudson, according to a friend who spoke with multiple news media outlets.
Cleves attended Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin High School, known collectively as LREI, from kindergarten through 12th grade.
He graduated from the private Manhattan school in 2012 and in recent years worked on its technology staff part-time, the school’s director, Phil Kassen, wrote on its alumni page on Facebook.
“Nicholas was kind, caring, curious, interested, and a great friend,” Kassen wrote.
“He always had a kind word when you would pass him in the hall, and the biggest smile, and always offered to help, no matter the situation.” - Anne Laure Decadt, 31, of Staden, Belgium.
Decadt was visiting New York with her two sisters and mother.
She was cycling on the bike path when the truck hit her from behind, CNN affiliate VTM reported.
Her mother and sisters were not hurt.
Decadt “was a fantastic wife and the most beautiful mom to our two sons of 3 months and 3 years old.
This loss is unbearable and difficult to understand,” her husband, Alexander Naessens, said in an interview with local Belgium news media.
- The five Argentine men were all from the city of Rosario.
Their journey to New York had been organized by Ariel Erlij, whose company, Ivanar SA, distributes steel products.
The businessman had helped pay for two of his friends to go on the trip.
The five men were: - Erlij, 48 - Hernán Diego Mendoza, 48 - Diego Enrique Angelini, 48 - Alejandro Damián Pagnucco, 49 - Hernán Ferruchi, 48