If you re dissatisfied with Debbie Wasserman-Schultz as the head of the DNC, Hillary Clinton has some good news for you.
While one cannot simply remove the DNC Chairwoman from her position, and while she will retain her title, Wasserman-Schultz has been stripped of most of her power.
CNN reports:Hillary Clinton s campaign is taking the reins of the Democratic National Committee, installing a new top official on Thursday to oversee the party s day-to-day operations through the general election.Brandon Davis, national political director for the Service Employees International Union, will become the general election chief of staff for the Democratic Party.
His selection formalizes the coordination of the Clinton campaign and the committee, a stark contrast to Donald Trump who is currently at odds with his party.Now, this sort of thing is rather common but it is expected to alleviate some of Democrats concerns about Wasserman-Schultz s rather lackluster leadership abilities.
This is in fact what happens, former Democratic Party chairman, Howard Dean, told CNN.
Debbie will still have the title, but somebody else will be the effective operator of the DNC.
It s Hillary s pick.
And, of course, Hillary could have picked anyone she wanted (including Wasserman-Schultz).
But, of course, she didn t, perhaps realizing that the Chairwoman is not the right fit for this or many other jobs.
We basically just turned it over to him and I left the building to him.
He ran the DNC, Dean said, explaining how he transitioned to simply raising money for Barack Obama after his campaign took over the party.
It was very clear I wasn t going to be running the DNC as soon as there was a nominee.
It has long been suspected that DWS was working in cahoots with the Clinton campaign.
While it is true that the Democratic nominee has benefited from the party leader s numerous blunders including a terrible debate schedule that kept the party out of the public eye it seems that it was just incompetence that appeared to be assistance.
Or, if Debbie was providing assistance in hopes of a reward, Clinton did not return the favor.
In any case, the Democratic Party is stronger with Debbie Wasserman-Schultz sidelined.This decision comes on the heels of a meeting between Clitnon and Bernie Sanders, who has long called for new leadership in the DNC.
Sen. Sanders and Secretary Clinton met in Washington on Tuesday evening and had a positive discussion about how best to bring more people into the political process and about the dangerous threat that Donald Trump poses to our nation, said Michael Briggs, Sanders spokesman, in a statement following the meeting.
Sanders congratulated Secretary Clinton on the campaign she has run and said he appreciated her strong commitment to stopping Trump in the general election.
It is unknown how or if Sanders influenced Clinton s decision to strip Wasserman-Schultz of power.
We have a lot of work to do over the next five months to make sure that Donald Trump does not become president, Clinton campaign manager, Robby Mook, said while introducing Davis to the party s staff.
With so much at stake in this election, we could not ask for a better partner in that mission than the team here.
Now, we just need an election to make this firing permanent.Featured image via Getty Images/Andrew Burton