Hillary came out with a heavily edited TV ad yesterday, calling Trump s ability to be a role model into question.
Here is the video: Really Hillary?
You re worried about Trump being a role model?
Here are few of Hillary s greatest hits that have been revealed by those closest to her while either acting as our First Lady or in some capacity as a public servant .
***STRONG LANGUAGE WARNING****1) Where is the God damn flag?
I want the God damn fucking flag up every morning at fucking sunrise .
Hillary to staff at the Arkansas Governor s mansion on Labor Day 1991.
From the book Inside the White House by Ronald Kessler, p. 244(2) Fuck off!
It s enough I have to see you shit-kickers every day!
I m not going to talk to you, too!
Just do your Goddamn job and keep your mouth shut.
Hillary to her State Trooper bodyguards after one of them greeted her with Good Morning.
From the book America Evita by Christopher Anderson, p.90(3) If you want to remain on this detail, get your fucking ass over here and grab those bags!
Hillary to a Secret Service Agent who was reluctant to carry her luggage because he wanted to keep his hands free in case of an incident.
From the book The First Partner p. 25(4) Stay the fuck back, stay the fuck back away from me!
Don t come within ten yards of me, or else!
Just fucking do as I say, Okay!!?
Hillary screaming at her Secret Service detail.
From the book Unlimited Access by Clinton s FBI Agent-in-Charge, Gary Aldridge, p.139(5) Where s the miserable cock sucker?
(otherwise known as Bill Clinton ) Hillary shouting at a Secret Service officer.
From the book The Truth about Hillary by Edward Klein, p. 5(6) You fucking idiot Hillary to a State Trooper who was driving her to an event.
From the book Crossfire ~pg.
84(7) Put this on the ground!
I left my sunglasses in the limo.
I need those fucking sunglasses!
We need to go back!
Hillary to Marine One helicopter pilot to turn back while in route to Air Force One.
From the book Dereliction of Duty p. 71-72(8) Come on Bill, put your dick up!
You can t fuck her here!!
Hillary to Gov.
Bill Clinton when she spots him talking with an attractive female.
From the book Inside the White House by Ronald Kessler, p. 243Additionally, when she walked around the White House, NO ONE was permitted to look her in the eye, they all had to lower their heads with their eyes towards the ground whenever she walked by.
Clearly she is a class act!This ill-tempered, violent, loud-mouth, hateful and abusive woman wants to be your next President, and have total control as Commander-in-Chief of our Military, the very Military for which she has shown incredible disdain throughout her public life .Now it will be clear why the crew of Marine One helicopter nick-named the craft, Broomstick ONE Via: TruthFeedAs an added BONUS we ve included a clip from an interview that was filmed in Africa.Hillary shows her true colors when a female student speaking broken English accidentally refers to Barack Obama as Mr. Clinton .
Her overreaction to this woman s innocent error shows what really happens when you unintentionally displease the Queen of the Democrat party Watch HERE