President-elect Donald Trump set the stage for a truly hateful social and political climate when he began his presidential campaign by calling immigrants rapists and drug dealers and continuing to make moves to exclude them from the country in the following months.Trump s rabid supporters have latched onto that message and now that we are just a day away from Trump s inauguration, their vile behavior is only amplified now.
Rep. Filemon Vela has just become the fourth Texas Democrat to boycott Trump s inauguration, and for good reason.Vela had originally planned to attend Trump s inauguration to provide a moment of healing and outreach but Trump s supporters have caused him to change his mind.
In a statement posted to social media, Vela told of a disgusting interaction he d witnessed between migrant students and Trump supporters in Washington, DC for Trump s inauguration.
He said: While visiting Washington, DC, 40 migrant students from my district were subjected to comments of beaners, burritos, and wetbacks from Inauguration attendees.
One student was even spit on.
And that wasn t all that made Vela change his mind.
He was also appalled at Trump s final cabinet selection, which conveniently left out any Hispanics.
Vela continued: Then, Donald Trump made his final cabinet selection ensuring that there would be no Hispanic representation in the cabinet for the first time in 36 years.
Trump and his supporters are certainly sending a message to Hispanics and Vela noticed it a long time ago.
In June, Vela condemned Trump in an open letter, which said: Mr. Trump, you re a racist and you can take your border wall and shove it up your ass.
Vela is now joining the dozens of Democrats that are boycotting the inauguration.
In his statement, Vela slammed Trump for his repeated acts of disrespect for the 33 million Americans of Hispanic descent and widespread promotion of bigotry.
In a statement that embodies how the majority of Americans are feeling right now, Vela said: The hope that his actions as President would not match his political rhetoric is becoming more and more of a distant dream.
You can read Vela s full statement below:Filemon Vela statement: pic.twitter.com/gkaPt41sKA Abby Livingston (@TexasTribAbby) January 19, 2017Featured image via Ty Wright / Getty Images