A major indicator that Donald Trump s campaign might be over just occurred.
The Republican National Committee has put a temporary halt on their program aimed at getting Trump into the White House.
According to an email obtained by Politico, at least one top vendor in what is called the Victory program and one official at the RNC are named in the email s cc line.
Politico reports: In an email from the RNC to a victory program mail vendor, with the subject line Hold on all projects, the committee asked the vendor to put a hold on mail production.
Please put a hold/stop on all mail projects right now.
If something is in production or print it needs to stop.
Will update you when to proceed, Lauren Toomey, a staffer in the RNC s political department, wrote in an email that was obtained by POLITICO.
Officials with the RNC have yet to release a statement on the matter.This, of course, comes after an audio recording was released where Trump can be heard talking about violently groping women.
Trump has a long record of using hateful misogynistic language towards women.
After hearing Trump s remarks in the recording, several Republicans in Congress have called for Trump to drop out of the race.
This includes a video that Senator Mike Lee posted to his Facebook page, where he said that If anyone spoke to my wife or my daughter or my mother or any of my five sisters the way [Donald Trump] has spoken to women, I wouldn t hire that person.
Even Mike Pence, Trump s running mate released a statement where he lambasted Trump for the comments.
If your wingman in your campaign has to call you out for making violently misogynistic comments, then your campaign is probably doomed.The evidence is beginning to mount that Trump s reign of terror may finally be over.
While Trump dropping out at this juncture would almost assure Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton s victory it was beginning to look like she already had the election in the bag anyway.
It isn t too hard to imagine the GOP accepting that they are damned with Trump or without him.
They may have figured the best they can do at this point is to give up and try and conserve their resources rather than try to back a loser.Featured image from Alex Wong/Getty Images