President Trump made a joke while speaking to law enforcement officers that was portrayed in the media as an endorsement of police brutality The left will do just about anything to bash President Trump!
Go to the 22:30 mark to hear the joke:The Daily Caller reports that while speaking about violent gang-members in a speech to law enforcement officers that focused on MS-13, Trump said officers shouldn t be too nice when putting violent criminals in the paddy wagon.
He added: Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you re protecting their head, you know, the way you put the hand over.
Like, don t hit their head and they ve just killed somebody, don t hit their head.
I said, You can take the hand away, OK. Trump s comment was clearly a joke and, as liberal website Slate pointed out, resembled a famous Jerry Seinfeld joke on the same topic.Journalists immediately said that the joke was an open endorsement of police brutality.
TRUMP ENDORSES POLICE BRUTALITY, blared HuffPost s front page, featuring a story titled: Donald Trump Endorses Police Brutality In Speech To Cops.
Other outlets took a similar tone.
Trump promotes police brutality in speech to cops, reported The Daily Dot.
Trump praises police violence to audience of laughing cops, left-wing ThinkProgress reported.
Trump endorsed police brutality in a speech to law enforcement while officers laughed and cheered, claimed Huffington Post editor Emma Gray.
In a country that already has a pretty pervasive problem with police brutality, Trump endorses their behavior, wrote HuffPo editor Phillip Lewis.Commentator Ben Shapiro was quick to push back against claims that Trump was endorsing police brutality.
This is all exaggeration.
Is it appropriate for Trump to encourage police not to be too nice to suspects?
Not really.
But it s not police brutality to refrain from putting your hand on the head of a suspect to prevent them from bumping it on a car door.
It s police brutality if you slam their head into the car door, Shapiro wrote.Read mrs: Law Officer