Legendary news anchor Dan Rather said on Thursday that it shouldn t be long now before Donald Trump s cozy relationship with Russia becomes a real problem for him.
Every once in a while in Washington, the fuse is lit for what seems to be a big scandal.
Much more rarely does that fuse lead to an explosion of the magnitude we are seeing with Russia and the new Administration, and frankly the Republicans in Congress, Rather wrote on Facebook.
How can anybody say, with all this billowing smoke and sights of actual flames, that there is no need to at least independently investigate whether a fire is burning down the very pillars of our democracy?
The numerous investigations currently ongoing into the Trump campaign s constant contact with high-level Russian officials, Michael Flynn s resignation after it was revealed that he lied bigly about his relationship with Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and, of course now the likelihood that notorious racist Jeff Sessions also perjured himself about his coziness with Kislyak, Rather says things are going to get bad quickly:The pressure is obviously starting to mount as leading Republicans are now calling for Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself from the Russia investigation.
This comes in the wake of serious and credible evidence reported by a vigilant press that the Attorney General, mind you the top law enforcement man in the United States, perjured himself in testimony to the Senate about meeting the Russian ambassador during the election.
Sessions is but the latest person close to President Trump who seems to be ensnared in a story that is more worthy of Hollywood melodrama than the reality of the governance of our country.
Democrats are calling for Sessions to resign, and this story could move very quickly.
We are well past the time for any political niceties or benefits of the doubt.
We need an independent and thorough investigation of Russia s meddling in our democracy and its ties to the President and his allies, Rather says.
We don t know what we don t know.
Perhaps there are perfectly innocuous reasons for why Mr Trump won t release his tax returns, why he has continued to speak admirably about President Putin and why his aides and advisors seem to be so close to Russia.
That s why we need an investigation.
If the air is to be cleared, it needs to be cleared.
And if there is deep rot, it needs to be exposed.
And quickly.
Rather says that the press is doing an admirable job at holding this administration to account, but there is only so much it can do without such things as subpoena powers :Let s just make this clear.
This is about a foreign and hostile power trying to influence our election while being in contact with close aides to the presidential campaign that the Kremlin wanted to win.
Furthermore, there are serious questions about Mr Trump s longstanding ties to Russian money and influence peddlers.
We don t know where this might go, but it isn t going away.Rather is right things are looking pretty bad for Trump.
Now we just need to wait for the other shoe to drop.Read his post below:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Every once in a while in Washington, the fuse is lit for what seems to be a big scandal.
Much more rarely does that fuse Posted by Dan Rather on Thursday, March 2, 2017Featured image via screengrab