It s no secret has built a national coalition of minority voters.
In the Democratic Primary, black and Hispanic voters came out and brought a sweep of the south for Clinton, thus edging her closer and closer to the nomination.It is this same minority population that might flip the southern state of Georgia in the November general election, and could tilt the electoral college in favor of Democrats for the first time since 1992.
Before that, Democrats won in 1976 and 1980, when Jimmy Carter was president.A new poll from WSB 2 in Georgia shows a surprising result: Clinton and Trump are tied, 41 percent to 41 percent, with Trump winning whites and men and Clinton clinching women, African Americans, and Independents.Clinton is no fool.
She knows perfectly well where she stands with Georgia.
While appearing on ABC, the Democratic frontrunner pointed out that the state s demographics are growing in the Democrat s favor:In the last decade, Georgia s minority population has gone from 37%-44%.
Eighty-one percent of the state s population growth has come from minorities.
Blacks and Hispanics account for Georgia s population growth, and those two groups of voters are why the Clinton campaign seems to be gearing up to make a serious push to win Georgia.The only thing that could tip the scales in favor of Clinton is Independents.
Although she leads Trump with them 36 percent to 28 percent, 38 percent remain undecided.If Clinton can tap into the Independent voters, and highlight just how crazy and destructive Donald Trump is, not only would Georgia turn blue, other southern sates could follow.And that s what Clinton is aiming to do:And I particularly want to support Democrats in states that have been voting against Democratic candidates for awhile now to rebuild the Democratic Party.
We re going to try to make Georgia competitive, and we re going to fight hard in North Carolina and Virginia and Florida.Could there be a southern uprising in favor of Clinton?
As the frontrunner looks towards the general election, stops in Ohio and Appalachia may also turn other red-leaning states blue.If Clinton keeps up her appeal to all (instead of just angry, white men), Democrats could have a great year.
Georgia s latest poll is just one of more to come.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images