Vice President Joe Biden has nothing but glowing praise for Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders.
Biden, who contemplated a run for the presidency but decided to opt out, said of Sanders: Bernie is speaking to a yearning that is deep and real.
And he has credibility on it.
And that is the absolute enormous concentration of wealth of a small group of people, with a middle class now being left out.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GkFFh2M8rAc]Biden was referring to Sanders consistent record of speaking out on and pushing initiatives about income inequality throughout his career.
Sanders has made the issue a central theme of his campaign.
Biden also believes the issue of income inequality is of vital importance to the country.
He said: There used to be a basic bargain.
If you contributed to the profitability of an enterprise, you share in that profit, and that s been broken.
Productivity is up and wages are stagnant.
Sanders strength is with young voters, with polls showing that he leads in double digits in that demographic.
Many millennials, for example, have enormous college debt and they continue to have a tough time in the job market.
Kei Kawashima-Ginsberg, director of the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement, an organization that encourages young people to get involved in politics, said: Part of it is really sort of the age that they grew up in.
If you think about the millennials, that age group, they turned 18 as President George W Bush took office.
That s the world they grew up in: their country is at war, it seemed to have lost purpose.
And then as they were graduating from college the recession hit.
So the social contrast that people generally have that you invest in your education and you get paid off was a myth for them.
One thing is his genuineness.
He s been consistent warrior against economic inequality since the 60s, and he hasn t changed a bit.
Although Biden has not officially made an endorsement, he did meet with Sanders last October to discuss campaign finance reform.Bernie Sanders campaign is moving in the right direction, gaining momentum at the right time more than any other candidate despite the fact that the media has not paid attention to him.
If the current polls are indicative of things to come, the Republicans better look out.
Polls show him trouncing all Republican candidates, including Donald Trump by a wide margin.Featured Image: Marc Nozell (flickr)