No mercy for welfare leech and America hater, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev This is nothing to celebrate.
This is justice, said first-responder Michael Ward.
He wanted to go to hell and he s going to get there early.
A jury s ruling today to sentence marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to death is justice and a warning Boston will not tolerate terrorism, survivors and police said after the verdict.
This is nothing to celebrate.
This is justice, said first-responder Michael Ward.
He wanted to go to hell and he s going to get there early.
The verdict against Tsarnaev, who ll turn 22 in July, was announced by U.S. District Court Judge George A. O Toole Jr. s courtroom clerk Paul Lyness.
Tsarnaev showed no emotion as the verdict was read.Marathon bombing survivor Adrianne Haslet-Davis, who lost a third of her left leg in the bombing, told the Herald she s happy with the verdict.
My heart goes out to everyone in the survivor community and to the victims families, she added.
It s still a lot to process right now.
Only three of the 12 jurors bought into the defense argument that Tsarnaev was influenced by his older brother Tamerlan.
The jurors unanimously agreed that Tsarnaev showed no remorse for the marathon attack and its aftermath that killed four young people, maimed 17 and injured hundreds.The jurors unanimously voted to put him to death for the week of terror.
You re not going to blow up our marathon.
You re not going to blow up our city, said Boston police Commissioner William Evans.
We will not tolerate terrorism.
Tsarnaev will be formally sentenced by O Toole this summer after survivors and loved ones of the victims have the opportunity to present impact statements.Tsarnaev will also be afforded the chance to speak.
He chose not to take the stand in his own defense during the trial a factor jurors were not allowed to consider or even discuss amongst themselves, per O Toole s orders.Tsarnaev is expected to remain incarcerated locally until after the sentencing, when he will be delivered to the USP Terre Haute prison in Indiana, where he will be the youngest person on federal death row.U.S.
Attorney Loretta Lynch said today in a statement that Tsarnaev coldly and callously perpetrated a terrorist attack in Boston.
We know all too well that no verdict can heal the souls of those who lost loved ones, nor the minds and bodies of those who suffered life-changing injuries from this cowardly attack, Lynch said.
But the ultimate penalty is a fitting punishment for this horrific crime and we hope that the completion of this prosecution will bring some measure of closure to the victims and their families.
We thank the jurors for their service, the people of Boston for their vigilance, resilience and support and the law enforcement community in Boston and throughout the country for their important work.
The seven women and five men, who reached their verdict after 14 hours of deliberations, convicted the former University of Massachusetts Dartmouth sophomore on April 8 of a 30-count indictment that included the April 15, 2013, bombing murders of marathon spectators Martin Richard, 8, of Dorchester, Lingzi Lu, 23, a Boston University graduate statistics student from China, and restaurant manager Krystle Marie Campbell, 29, a Medford native.Tsarnaev was also held responsible for the shooting death of MIT Police Officer Sean Collier, 27, three days after the marathon massacre, when the FBI went public with photos of Tsarnaev and his late older brother Tamerlan, 26, as their terror suspects.Via: Bostonherald.com