Pope Francis has once again infuriated conservatives after he washed and kissed the feet of Christian, Muslim, and Hindu but most importantly Muslim refugess on Thursday.
In the ceremonial re-enactment of the foot-washing ritual Jesus performed on his disciples before he was crucified, the Pope again broke from the tradition of simply washing the feet of twelve Catholic men.In 2013, Francis washed the feet of women and Muslims at a juvenile detention center a violation of longstanding rules he changed in January to allow all people of God to participate in the ritual.
This shift from the patriarichal norm was not well-received by the American Right, but this year the Pope did something that sent conservatives into an irrational rage.
To the Pope, who recognizes that Christians, Jews, and Muslims all worship the same God, this means anyone could be chosen to participate in the ritual.This year, four women and eight men participated.
The women included an Italian Catholic and three Eritrean Coptic Christian migrants.
The men included four Catholics from Nigeria and three Muslims from Mali, Syria, and Pakistan, and a Hindu man from India.
If this broad mix wasn t enough to cause the Right to seethe with hatred, the Pope s words helped ensure it would happen:That s the sort of claim that has been known to get a Muslim woman removed from teaching at a Christian university, right there.
It s a completely sensible statement.
Allah is simply the Arabic translation of the word God.
Unfortunately, combined with the fact that Francis performed an expression of humility with regard to Muslims caused the Right to flip the f*ck out.
Conservatives flocked to the Washington Post s Facebook page to unleash their anger, frustration, and stupidity: There are manufacturers, arms dealers who want blood, not peace; they want the war, not fraternity, the Pope said after condemning the Brussels attack in statements prior to the ceremony.
You, we, all of us together, of different religions, different cultures, but children of the same Father, brothers and there, those poor people, who buy weapons to wreck fraternity.
Today, at this time, when I do the same act of Jesus washing the feet of twelve of you, let us all make a gesture of brotherhood, and let us all say: We are different, we are different, we have different cultures and religions, but we are brothers and we want to live in peace,' he added a message of unity that has been warmly embraced by all who do not believe that hatred is the way to go about living, but has managed to somehow irritate conservatives.Watch this deeply humble action, below:Featured image via screengrab