Sounds like a great deal, right?
After all, Planned Parenthood insists that only 3% of its business involves abortions, and they get $500 million from the federal government.
That way, they could focus that much more on all their work in pre-natal care!
And yet The White House, concerned about the possible political repercussions of the Republican effort to defund Planned Parenthood, has proposed preserving federal payments to the group if it discontinues providing abortions.The proposal, which was never made formally, has been rejected as an impossibility by officials at Planned Parenthood, which receives about $500 million annually in federal funding.
That money helps pay for women s health services the organization provides, not for abortion services.
Let s be clear: Federal funds already do not pay for abortions, Dawn Laguens, the executive vice president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said on Monday.
Offering money to Planned Parenthood to abandon our patients and our values is not a deal that we will ever accept.
Providing critical health care services for millions of American women is nonnegotiable.
This deal seems pretty straightforward, even if the White House never quite made it official.
Planned Parenthood wants to keep receiving Title IX funds intended for low-income women who need actual health care that could be provided by other clinics, especially those which offer actual pre-natal health care.
If that was the case, they could get rid of the supposed three percent of their business that deals with abortions and use those resources to expand other offerings, including services they already claim to do but don t actually provide at all.
Their refusal to even consider the idea speaks volumes about their values, as do their abortion sales quotas.Their annual report shows overall revenue at $1.146 billion, which includes $553.7 million from government funds, and only $309.2 million from non-government health services revenue fees.
If abortions only amount to 3% of their revenue, that would be $34.38 million for 332,000 abortions, or $103 per abortion (gross, not net after costs) if no other revenue was being used to cover it.
These numbers don t add up with the 3% claim.Trump s deal makes this much clear, at least: Planned Parenthood values its abortion mill much more than it values $500 million in government funding each year.
That really tells us all we need to know about their 3% claim, their values, and the use of taxpayer dollars to subsidize the operations of the world s leading abortion mill.
TownhallBy now, Femi-Nazi s are probably starting to get the idea that they re not dealing with your average spineless politician.
Time to pull out the pussy hats and take to the streets ladies.
As a conservative woman, I can assure you that the recent women s march (anti-Trump, pro-abortion publicity stunt) was an epic fail.
Pro-life female supporters of President Trump are pretty much in agreement that it was the best imaginable way to convince more people to join our team.
The vile and disgusting way these women conducted themselves in their fight to keep federal funding alive for the legalized murder of babies, was enough to make undecided women run as far away from them as possible