Echoing statements made by Donald Trump about fences and unwanted Mexicans coming to America, Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants to build a fence around Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories in order to protect the country from what he says are wild beasts, in reference to Palestinians, Arabs, and black African migrants, who the Israelis find especially scary.
During a tour of the Jordan-Israel border in the south Netanyahu said: In our neighborhood, we need to protect ourselves from wild beasts.
At the end of the day as I see it, there will be a fence like this one surrounding Israel in its entirety.
We will surround the entire state of Israel with a fence, a barrier.
He said the plan will take several years to complete and Israel will also look at ways to ensure that the Palestinians don t find ways to escape from the walls that have been built around their cities and villages in the illegally occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Netanyahu said: This thing costs many billions, and we re working on a multi-year plan of prioritization so it would be spread out over years in order to gradually build it, but to complete it to defend the State of Israel.
His assertion to defend Israel is not the reason he s building a fence.
About 85% of the wall is actually built inside the occupied Palestinian West Bank, effectively annexing and stealing 46% of the land.
The wall was ruled illegal by the International Court of Justice in 2004 yet Israel has failed to dismantle it.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJFKL-wkQQI] Trump has also pledged to build walls along the 2,000 mile border with Mexico, a campaign pledge that has apparently caught on with Republican voters.
Trump said: I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I ll build them very inexpensively.
I will build a great, great wall on our southern border.
And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.
Mark my words.
The abrasive personality traits are striking but the plans are dangerous.
We can already see what Netanyahu s policies have done to the Palestinians.
He is a war criminal pure and simple.
If Trump were to become president of the most powerful country in the history of the world, the US and the rest of the world have a very bleak future.Featured Image Via Screenshot Capture