It s alarming that so many people are lining up rank and file behind Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump.
It seems that no matter what he says or does, people will love and defend him.
He not only lies, but he s incredibly dangerous with his rhetoric and is tapping into a part of conservative rage that can only be seen as desperate but it s working.Now, during a taping of MSNBC s townhall that will air on Wednesday, Trump was asked about his position on abortion.
What he said shouldn t only disgust people, but terrify them.MSNBC s Chris Matthews asked Trump: Should abortion be punished?
This is not something you can dodge.
Trump half-ass answered: Look, people in certain parts of the Republican Party, conservative Republicans, would say, Yes, it should.
So Matthews pressed him harder on it asking, How about you?
Trump responded: I would say it s a very serious problem and it s a problem we have to decide on.
Are you going to send them to jail?
Matthews pressing even further said, I m asking you.
This is when Trump decided to say: I am pro-life.
Well, you go back to a position like they had where they would perhaps go to illegal places but we have to ban it.
Then being pressed further, Trump says, There has to be some form of punishment.
With Matthews asking for the woman?
and Trump responding in the affirmative declaring that the punishment would have to be determined.
All of this proving, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that we need to now, more than ever, make sure Trump gets nowhere near the Oval Office.
He would have the ability to choose who goes on the Supreme Court, and that thought alone should terrify every woman to their core.Trump even said: They ve set the law and frankly the judges, you re going to have a very big election coming up for that reason because you have judges where it s a real tipping point and with the loss of Scalia, who was a very strong conservative, this presidential election is going to be very important When you say what s the law, nobody knows what the law is going to be.
It depends on who gets elected.
People, please, if you re a liberal and your candidate doesn t get the nomination and you choose to sit at home or vote out of spite, your choice to do so will have national repercussions bigger than yourself.
No matter who gets the nomination for the Democrats vote blue.
This is beyond critical, and these latest remarks by Trump prove that beyond a shadow of a doubt.Featured Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images HT: Bloomberg