Short and easy quiz.
Which of these things is not like the other?1) A serial rapist who drugged dozens of women in order to forcibly have sex with them without their consent.
2) A serial adulterer who had sexual relations with consenting women.
3) Hillary Clinton.If you answered none of these things are like any of the others, then you answered correctly.
Number one is, of course, Bill Cosby.
Number two is, obviously, President Bill Clinton.
And number three is, well, you know.
And yet somehow, Donald Trump and the traditional media have managed to conflate all three in order to taint numbers two and three with the rapey stench of number one.That s really all that needs to be said.
And by the way, I thought more than a few conservatives have been defending Cosby against the growing list of victims who were allegedly raped by the one-time television and comedy star.
But Trump is counting on the fact that his low-information ignoramus voters won t know the difference or, in fact, bother thinking for themselves for a change.
Instead, they ll simply agree with Trump in spite of the facts.On Sunday s Face the Nation, Hillary Clinton was asked point-blank what she makes of this nonsensical line of attack from Trump.CLINTON: Well, if he wants to engage in personal attacks from the past, that s his prerogative.
You know, so be it.I m going to draw the distinctions between where I stand and where he stands when it comes to equal pay for women, raising the minimum wage, which affects two-thirds of the women, who are the ones receiving the minimum wage, protecting a woman s right to make the most personal health care decisions.That s why I m so proud to have the endorsement of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund that I received today in New Hampshire, because I m going to fight as hard as I can against any efforts to defund Planned Parenthood, something that he supports.So, there are very clear distinctions.
He can say whatever he wants to about me.
Let the voters judge that.
But I am not going to let him or any of the other Republicans rip away the progress that women have made.
It s been too hard-fought-for.
And I m going to stand up and make it clear there s a huge difference between us.Yes, I get it.
Trump is attacking Hillary for being a hypocrite by supporting women s rights while remaining married to a cheater.
But it doesn t really make any sense.
Guaranteeing continued access to affordable contraception and abortion services doesn t have anything to do with Hillary navigating a patchy marriage.
But it s still an attack, I suppose.Frankly, Trump is attacking Bill Clinton more than anyone else.
The message here is that a Cosby-like figure will have access to the Oval Office, and that s bad.
Furthermore, there s definitely a bit of Trump racism on display here: Bill Clinton is just like a rapey black man.
Run away!
Trump s puritanical white voters won t like that, hence the Trump ad.
The irony is that Trump s puritanical white supporters are also supporting Trump himself, who s had a rather spotty relationship with marriage fidelity himself.Bottom line: the ad makes zero sense, and it makes even less sense to demand that Hillary respond to it.
Bill Clinton s behavior was Bill Clinton s behavior.
Hillary had nothing to do with it.
Full stop.Via Crooks & Liars:Featured image via video screen grab.