Maine s Republican Governor Paul LePage became a statewide embarrassment yet again this week when he decided to blame the problem of drugs on black drug dealers from out of state.On the very same day state lawmakers were debating whether to file impeachment proceedings for LePage s previous offenses (and there are many), the Tea Party conservative was attending a town hall meeting where he decided to go WAY off script and float an outrageous theory about black people targeting Maine s white women.
These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty these types of guys they come from Connecticut and New York, they come up here, they sell their heroin, they go back home.
Incidentally, half the time they impregnate a young, white girl before they leave, which is a real sad thing because then we have another issue we have to deal with down the road.
The comments were so unbelievable that several news outlets quite literally refused to believe it had even happened that is until Maine s public access channel aired the video.Universally loathed LePage has the distinction of being hated by both Democrats and Republicans who know him and already facing a strong possibility that he will be kicked out of office for a series of offenses that span everything from calling Obama a racist to verbally threatening a Democratic colleague during a legislative meeting, LePage s seasoned team of spindoctors got to work trying to frame this as anything other than what it actually is.
More so than ever before, the need to lie about what happened was dire.
LePage s job is on the line.His team offered up this nonsensical word salad: The governor is not making comments about race.
Race is irrelevant, Steele said.
What is relevant is the cost to state taxpayers for welfare and the emotional costs for these kids who are born as a result of involvement with drug traffickers.
His heart goes out to these kids because he had a difficult childhood, too.
We need to stop the drug traffickers from coming into our state.
Then LePage, getting truly desperate, went ahead and implied that he was not racist, just really, really stupid.
I was going impromptu and my brain didn t catch up with my mouth, Gov.
Paul LePage said.
He said he meant to say Maine girls and not white girls when he made the slip-up.
It was not intended to be race, he added.
It was intended to be Maine.
Are you buying it?
Don t.For one thing, the video makes it clear that saying young white girls was no slip of the tongue.
Watch it again.
He didn t stumble over his words.
He didn t misspeak.
When he got on the topic of drugs, he immediately jumped to the poor white girls.
If LePage is guilty of any mistake it s that he accidentally said out loud what he clearly believes but knows better than to admit to.
For a guy like LePage, who has spent his time in office viciously attacking the poor and making ugly racial comments, the idea that black drug dealers would be coming to impregnate his state s white women is a racist trope that fits right in to his worldview.Even members of his own party seem to recognize that this isn t a mere slip-up, but represents the acknowledgment of long simmering racist views that he uses to base his conservative policies on.
One Republican critic, Lance Dutson, didn t mince words: This is one of the most blatantly racist statements he s ever made.
The scariest part?
He said one of