Trump supporters are FURIOUS after a member of the choir took a courageous stand.Donald Trump and his team have been desperately searching for talent to perform at his inauguration on January 20th with very little success.
So far, they have a former America s Got Talent contestant to sing the national anthem and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir.Of course, Mormons voted for Trump despite claiming that they opposed him throughout the campaign.
Even Bill Maher applauded the Mormon Church as the only religious organization that seemed to not want to vote for someone hypocritical to their faith.
But they did anyway as Utah went for Trump on Election Day.The Rockettes are being forced to dance at the inauguration as well, which set off a firestorm among the members because Trump is a creepy pervert and sexual predator.And for one member of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, looking at herself in the mirror every morning was getting more and more difficult, so after much thought and prayer, she announced that she is resigning rather than sing for a tyrant.In a Facebook post, Jan Chamberlin courageously explained why she had to quit the choir she loves after five years.Since the announcement , I have spent several sleepless nights and days in turmoil and agony.
I have reflected carefully on both sides of the issue, prayed a lot, talked with family and friends, and searched my soul.
I ve tried to tell myself that by not going to the inauguration, that I would be able to stay in Choir for all the other good reasons.
I have highly valued the mission of the Choir to be good- will ambassadors for Christ, to share beautiful music and to give hope, inspiration, and comfort to others.
I ve tried to tell myself that it will be alright and that I can continue in good conscience before God and man.
But it s no use.
I simply cannot continue with the recent turn of events.
I could never look myself in the mirror again with self respect.
I also know, looking from the outside in, it will appear that Choir is endorsing tyranny and fascism by singing for this man, she continued.And Choir s wonderful image and networking will be severely damaged and that many good people throughout this land and throughout the world already do and will continue to feel betrayed.
I believe hereafter our message will not be believed by many that have loved us and adored what we have stood for.
I know that I too feel betrayed.
Tyranny is now on our doorstep; it has been sneaking its way into our lives through stealth.
Now it will burst into our homes through storm.
I hope that we and many others will work together with greater dilligence and awareness to calmly and bravely work together to defend our freedoms and our rights for our families, our friends, and our fellow citizens.Chamberlin went on to note that her father was distraught over the Holocaust and that her parents despised tyranny.
She sees history repeating itself and warned that we need to educate ourselves and fight back before it s too late.I only know I could never throw roses to Hitler.
And I certainly could never sing for him.
Much love to you all.
I wish you all blessings and happiness.
My heart is shattered and broken .
but my conscience is clear.
And THAT, really is all that matters.Predictably, Trump supporters lashed out at Chamberlin.I bet all of these bullies hated President Obama for the last eight years and cheered on the Republican obstructionism and utter disrespect they showed him.
Yet, they have the gall to accuse Chamberlin of not being a true Christian.
Sad.The other 359 members of the choir should follow this brave woman s lead.Featured image via screenshot