It appears the repercussions of a Donald Trump America are already taking full effect.
Donnie Jones Jr., who is African-American from Wesley Chapel, Florida, reported a story that his child and friends were told that Donald Trump would send them back to Africa if they don t behave.Here s Jones Facebook post regarding the incident: Day 1 post Donald J Trump election.
My child and two other students walking down the hallway at Wesley Chapel High School and a white male teacher asks them what are they up to.
(it s during period break so they are suppose to be there mind you) Anyway the teacher says to them Don t make me call Donald Trump to get you sent back to Africa.
When my child told me that I didn t know what to say.
I was blown away.
I m not going to lie, I saw RED!!!
I did almost 100 getting back up to that school.
I m beyond pissed right now.
I damn near have tears in my eyes.
Politics are Politics but once you say something to my child then it s fucking on!
I warn any mother fucker to say something sideways to my from now on!
Mother fuckers are feeling froggy today so I m about to play fucking frogger today and run some bitches down!
People ask what blacks, Muslims, gays and others that are different have from fear.
This is what we fucking fear.
I m not worried about Donald.
I m worried about the dumb fucks that feel like they can say and do whatever they want now because of him.
I appreciate the Principal and Asst Principal for moving so fast on this, but it s not something I would ever expect (yes I do) from a person that s suppose to teach our children.
Smh I m fucking sweating and shaking .
come to find out it s the damn golf coach at the school.
John Sousa Who can blame him for being livid?
What that teacher said isn t only abhorrent, it s absolutely racist.Jones posted this update just recent: So to update some of you.
The school is still doing their investigation ?
but one of my good friends located his phone number Well being the parent that I am I called him.
He actually admitted saying it.
He said it was just an off the wall comment and wasn t meant to be racist.
He said it was a bunch of male and female students in the hallway and he was talking to everyone.
Let s be honest here.
I could see if he said Donald s going to deport everyone.
(Even then I would have questions) but my daughter said he pointed at the 3 black students and said Donald s going to send you back to Africa.
I believe he s sorry but he s only sorry because he s in trouble.
Lastly I m going to see what the school does.
They can play around here if they want to.
The teacher didn t think telling black students to go back to Africa was racist?!
Is he just that stupid, or is racism so ingrained in his mind that he literally doesn t see where he did anything wrong?This cannot be the America we live in.
We cannot allow a Donald Trump presidency to be a permission slip for racists, Islamophobes and homophobes to run amok and do as they please with no repercussions.Hopefully, the school handles this matter appropriately.
This is outrageous!Featured Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images