Donald Trump s entire image is based around the idea that he is a winner, and while that idea isn t supported by the reality of Trump s legacy of failed businesses and ventures, it is still jarring to see his reaction after he loses a battle.Republican voters in Wisconsin chose Ted Cruz over Trump in the primary on Wednesday night, and as he has in the past, Trump lost ugly.His campaign issued a bizarre, unhinged press release to the media after the results had been called in favor of Cruz:Donald J. Trump withstood the onslaught of the establishment yet again.
Lyin Ted Cruz had the Governor of Wisconsin, many conservative talk radio show hosts, and the entire party apparatus behind him.
Not only was he propelled by the anti-Trump Super PAC s spending countless millions of dollars on false advertising against Mr. Trump, but he was coordinating with his own Super PAC s (which is illegal) who totally control him.
Ted Cruz is worse than a puppet he is a Trojan horse, being used by the party bosses attempting to steal the nomination from Mr. Trump.
We have total confidence that Mr. Trump will go on to win in New York, where he holds a substantial lead in all the polls, and beyond.
Mr. Trump is the only candidate who can secure the delegates needed to win the Republican nomination and ultimately defeat Hillary Clinton, or whomever is the Democratic nominee, in order to Make America Great Again.Completely over the top, factually inaccurate, and failing to make sense: All hallmarks of the Trump campaign so far.
It shows why Republican establishment bigwigs are arguing over strategies to take him down at the convention, as polls regularly show him losing in double digits to both Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders.
A poll from Mason Dixon even showed Trump with only a single-digit lead over Clinton in blood red Mississippi.But as this release shows, Trump isn t going to let his campaign be snuffed out quietly.
If he loses at all, it s going to be with a loud, primal scream, and the GOP s bigwigs are going to hear all about it.Featured image via Flickr