Clearly riding the high off of his New Hampshire victory, Republican front runner Donald Trump announced that he would be releasing his tax returns in the next few months, foolishly admitting that he fights like hell to avoid paying his dues to the government like the rest of America.In an interview with NBC s Matt Lauer and Savannah Guthrie, Trump bragged that although they were being worked on , his tax returns were taking longer than usual because they are the biggest ever in the history of what we are doing.
The real estate mogul also said that once his very big tax returns finally make their public debut, people will probably be shocked at how little he pays.
He boasted: I fight like hell not to pay (taxes).
I hate the way the government spends my money.
Trump didn t seem to think this was much of a problem, and commended himself on being more crooked than other tax-paying politicians: I fight like hell not to pay a lot of tax, and you know what?
Every politician probably does.
I ve watched others where they say, Oh, I want to pay [tax].
In the same interview, Trump defended himself for calling Texas Senator Ted Cruz a p*ssy , explaining that it wasn t the worst thing in the world and that he was just having a good time.
He also said that because he stood up against political correctness by being himself and just saying whatever batsh*t crazy thing came to mind, people went out and voted for me, and that s why we got, you know, the numbers we did when talking about his New Hampshire victory.This interview is hardly the first time Trump has confessed to not paying as much as others in taxes.
Last year, Trump said in an interview with CBS Face The Nation: I fight like hell to pay as little as possible for two reasons.
Number one, I m a businessman.
And that s the way you re supposed to do it.
The other reason is that I hate the way our government spends our taxes.
I hate the way they waste our money.
Trillions and trillions of dollars of waste and abuse.
And I hate it.
But building that racist $8 billion border wall isn t wasteful?