This is the craziest explanation of why Donald Trump is getting his ass handed to him in the polls and you have to hear it for yourself.The Republican nominee s newst campaign manager Kellyanne Conway was interviewed by the UK s Channel 4, where she was grilled about Trump s poll numbers and whether he can really win.Once again, Trump s minion dismissed the polls as being cherry-picked by the media because they supposedly want to destroy him.Conway claimed that online polls are more accurate because they allegedly show Trump in the lead and she argued that college students are keeping their support of Trump secret so they aren t alienated on campus.
Donald Trump performs consistently better in online polling where a human being is not talking to another human being about what he or she may do in the election.
It s because it s become socially desirable, if you re a college educated person in the United States of America, to say that you re against Donald Trump.
The problem with online polls, however, is that anyone can take them and they can be easily skewed if a bunch of people take it with the intention of making the results lean one way or the other.
In short, they aren t scientific, like real polls conducted by CNN, Gallup, NBC, and Quinnipiac, all of which show Trump losing badly to Hillary Clinton.Furthermore, polls are anonymous so there is no need to hide one s support of a candidate.
But polls overwhelmingly show that Trump is getting trounced by Hillary among young voters, so it s pretty clear why Conway would make any excuse to explain the wide gap there.Conway then claimed that Trump will win the election in November because most of his voters are supposedly undercover.
Yeah, you read that right.
She literally said Trump has undercover voters that are in hiding until they can rush to the voting booth and cast their votes.
The hidden Trump vote in this country is a very significant proposition, she said.When asked if she has numbers to back up her claims, Conway said she does but refused to share them.
I can t discuss it, Conway said.
It s a project we re doing internally.
I call it the undercover Trump voter, but it s real.
Here s the video via Youtube:Someone get this woman a straight jacket and a rubber room, because this claim is as delusional as the claim that the government will send black helicopters to whisk critics away in the middle of the night or that the government is going to take way all of our guns.Seriously, this a crock of bullshit.
The idea that voters are undercover is totally ridiculous.
Donald Trump s campaign is imploding and the best his new campaign manager can do is cite the vote of imaginary voters as proof that Trump will win?
It s pathetic and it sounds like Trump needs yet another new campaign manager.Featured image via screenshot