For years, a street preacher has been embarrassing Christians by peddling what can only be described as extremist bullsh*t unfit for a family gathering at the Palin household.
Brother Dean Saxton, who has been raising eyebrows and blood pressures while simultaneously lowering the standards of human decency by standing around holding you deserve rape signs on college campuses and other places a message to whores (that s Christian extremist for women ) that if they decide to consume a single drop of alcohol, or wear something that exposes so much as an ankle or a shoulder blade they deserve whatever happens to them.
I think that girls that dress and act like it, Saxton told the Daily Wildcat in 2013, they should realize that they do have partial responsibility, because I believe that they re pretty much asking for it.
He s also made some less-than nice remarks about African-Americans and the LGBT community though he is most famous for telling every female rape victim that they were asking for it.
Here are just a few examples of the dumbass bullsh*t that goes on inside the cesspool that is this jerk s mind:via Arizona Daily Wildcat Now, you may have been wondering, a question may have been burning within you: when the hell is someone just going to take a baseball bat to this motherf*cker?While he was holding his hateful You deserve to be raped sign and condemning women who leave their homes without covering themselves head-to-toe in front of Apollo High School in Glendale, Arizona, a female student grabbed a baseball bat and hit him in the head.
The Bible says it s not okay to be gay, he yelled, holding his hateful rape sign in his hands in a double-whammy expression of hatred.
You need to stop doing naught, nasty things, Apollo High School.
You need to stop looking up naughty, nasty things on the Internet.
All the while, for some inexplicable reason, he was recording the children.Video posted by the preacher himself shows numerous students and teachers approaching him, demanding that he leave.
As one gentleman informed Saxton that he shouldn t be displaying this sort of message to kids, we hear a loud, metallic impact noise.With students cheering in the background, the gentleman to whom Saxton was speaking calmly said, You see that?
That s what I m telling you.
Saxton then beat a hasty retreat as the students told him to get lost.Tabitha Brubaker, 19, was certainly wrong to respond with violence, but when you think about it it was really Saxton s fault by his own logic.
Like men who can t resist raping those dirty, dirty whores who go outside looking like sluts with their elbows and knees showing (the ones he says deserve to be raped), we really can t blame Brubaker for giving into her inability to deal with misogynist bullsh*t and acting on her natural urge to bust this smarmy motherf*cker s head open.
After all, by preaching hate in front of a high school, didn t he place himself in a scenario where he was likely to meet someone who wasn t willing to deal with his particular brand of awfulness?Though some would award her a medal, what Brubaker did was a crime and she has been charged with felony assault.
She also had some weed on her, so she was charged with possession of a plant as well.Watch the full incident below:Featured image via screengrab