Just when you didn t think the Trump campaign could sink any lower, it does.
Twitter lit up on Wednesday evening, because it appears that lawmakers from numerous countries have been being spammed with emails from the Trump camp begging for campaign donations.
None of them are too happy about this.
First, British MP s tweeted out their frustrations and outrage regarding this, and many referenced the horrifying nature of Donald Trump s campaign trail rhetoric.
Australian Parlimentarian Tim Watts tweeted the fact that it was MP s from bunches of countries that were on the receiving end of the Trump fundraising email assault to TPM s Josh Marshall:@joshtpm @PatrickRuffini from what I can see, every Australian MP too.
Even the left wing ones #ImWithHer Tim Watts MP (@TimWattsMP) June 29, 2016Can you give us just roughest sense of how many youve received?
5?
10?
25?
50?
https://t.co/qZoK0VV0aQ Josh Marshall (@joshtpm) June 29, 2016After that, Joanne Ryan, also of the Australian Parliament, tweeted the following and indicated she would be deleting:@TimWattsMP maybe it's a Westy thing.
Me too.
Just what I need popping up in the inbox.
#swiplefttodelete Joanne Ryan MP (@JoanneRyanLalor) June 24, 2016It s not just British and Australian MP s either.
Parliament members from Iceland, Denmark and Finland report the same.
@jensschott @joshtpm yes pic.twitter.com/2CJ6MO8hMx Ida Auken (@IdaAuken) June 29, 2016.
@joshtpm @TPM Spam mail also received by MP:s in Finland.
Anders Adlercreutz (@adleande) June 29, 2016They are also angering our Canadian friends with this begging spam as well, and former Canadian Prime Minister Kim Campbell tweeted:Rec'd a fundraising email from Trump campaign!
Says it is their first.
Aside from fact I am Cdn, clearly they don't follow me on Twitter!1/2 Kim Campbell (@AKimCampbell) June 21, 2016Trump fundraising letter said it wd match funds if I donated w/in 48 hours- (and wd give me a big discount on the Brooklyn Bridge!
)2/2 Kim Campbell (@AKimCampbell) June 21, 2016It seems that team Trump did not heed the week s earlier warnings from UK officials to cease and desist with the email spam.
Several lawmakers in the United Kingdom tweeted their aggravation.
The best, though was from Natalie McGarry, who actually took the time to respond to Donald Trump, Jr., who it seems sent the email.
She was kind enough to tweet images of both the email and her absolutely awesome response:May be Donald Trump bought lists bizarre for grassroots campaign but how does he opt out of foreign donations?
pic.twitter.com/jVwfdFnI6U Natalie McGarry MP (@NatalieMcgarry) June 27, 2016McGarry said, in part, to Trump: Quite why you think it appropriate to write emails to UK parliamentarians with a begging bowl for your father s repugnant campaign is completely beyond me.
Given his rhetoric on migrants, refugees and immigration, it seems quite extraordinary that he would be asking for money; especially people who view his dangerous divisiveness with horror.
BOOM!
The fact that this was the response that Mini Trump received when he dared to beg for money from foreign leaders should have been a cue to cease and desist.
Instead, they expanded the effort to multiple other countries.
It also bears noting that it is illegal for other foreign lawmakers and other political types to donate to U.S. elections.
Further, it is also a violation of the law to solicit such donations as well.
Trump has already been issued with a Federal Elections Commissions complaint over this activity.Trump s campaign is pathetic, but this is a new low.
Do the world a favor and leave this race, Mr. Trump.
You re an embarrassment to Americans on the world stage.Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images