This should come as a surprise to no one ever because alleged president Donald Trump has a seedy financial interest in the Dakota Access Access Pipeline.
Energy Transfers Partners, the very company that is the pipeline, donated $100,000 to a Trump Victory Fund before the election in the hopes that he d greenlight it, Mother Jones reported.In fact, according to disclosure forms at the time, Trump had as much as $300,000 personally invested in the project.As it happens, our alleged president will likely overturn a permit denial that prohibited the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), which was the focus of months of massive protests by Native Americans and others who took part in the demonstrations, the Independent reports.
I m not going to get in front of the President s executive actions, Spicer said, but I will tell you that areas like the Dakota and Keystone pipeline are areas that we can increase jobs, increase economic growth, and tap into America s energy supply.
That s something that he s been very clear about.
Without elaborating, Press Secretary Sean Spicer did not provide specifics about the newly minted president s plans regarding continuing construction of the DAPL and the Keystone XL Pipeline.
However, Spicer did suggest that the new administration would move forward with the project.Trump s plan to go forward with the Dakota Access Pipeline isn t going down well on social media.Spicer won t get in front of Trump on Keystone or #DAPL, but people will sure as hell get in front of Keystone & #DAPL to stop them.
Travis Nichols (@travisjnichols) January 23, 2017The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced this past December that it would not grant the final permit that was needed for the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline to be completed.
It additionally stated that it would conduct an environmental impact review before continuing any part of the process.Get this: Trump is not behind the Standing Rock Tribe, and that is most likely because he has a financial interest in the pipeline.
Release your taxes, Mr.
Alleged President.Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images