The Republican Party is currently holding a joint conference with right-wing religious zealots at a event called The Faith and Freedom summit.
It s an insane mix of Bible thumping and shameless religious pandering.
(ex.
Donald Trump, no one s definition of a Christian poster boy, gets to be a featured speaker.)
It also includes guys like Sen. David Perdue (R-GA), who led a room full of Christians in prayer for President Obama to die.According to reporter Betsy Woodruff, Perdue told the crowd that he had a specific prayer in mind for Obama and one they should all help him with: Psalm s 109:8.
He quoted from the top with Let his days be few; and let another take his office.
The rest of the verse s basic premise is for the subject to die quickly and for his family to live out their days in misery.
It s not exactly the stuff Jesus talked about.Let his days be few; and let another take his office.Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the Lord; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.It s worth noting that Perdue, a relative newcomer from Georgia, is not considered a fringe right-winger.
He s often identified as a moderate.
The fact that even the level-headed members of the GOP will stand up before a room full of people and pray for Obama s death says a lot about just how far right the Republican Party has shifted.
He may look moderate compared to Donald Trump, but that s a pretty low bar.Fortunately, we know that Republicans have been beseeching God to assassinate Obama since the day he took office and it doesn t look like those prayers are going to be answered.
However, many of Perdue s fans might get it in their head that the will of God flows through them, and that makes this kind of violent rhetoric extremely dangerous.
Perdue may think he s delivering a harmless prayer meant to pander to his base, but he should probably account for the fact that many of his supporters are crazy enough to believe it even if he doesn t.Asking God to kill a man and leave his family destitute because you don t like his views on healthcare and taxes is truly craven.
It s a stark reminder of just how warped the Fox News crowd has become in their blind rage towards Obama and Democrats.
It s not wonder President Obama has basically given up on ever trying to compromise with them.
When one side comes to the bargaining table with dust on his knees and callouses on their hands from praying too hard for the other side s death, there is only so far a deal can go.The entire country needs to shame Sen. David Perdue.
Believe it or not, there is still a line and he crossed it.Featured image via Jessica McGowan/Getty Images