The mother of the 19 year old immigrant blames the murder of the WWII veteran, and the brutal beating of his wife on the violence their son was exposed to in an Ethiopian refugee camp.
Unfortunately for the 97 year old WWII veteran and his wife, this immigrant family found a safe place in the United States <sarcasm> A Des Moines man who beat an elderly neighbor to death was sentenced Monday in a Polk County court.Last month, a judge found Ngor Makuey, 20, guilty of first-degree murder.
Makuey broke into the home of Rupert and Harriet Anderson and attacked the couple, killing Rupert with a metal spatula.
Via: KCCI Des Moine Moments before an elderly man was killed and his wife beaten, the 19-year-old accused killer asked his parents for permission to go for a walk.
When he came home he had blood on his clothes.
Now police are trying to figure out why a teen who has never been in trouble with the law could be accused of such a horrible crime.In a desperate plea for help, 94-year old Harriet Anderson called 9-1-1 after she and her husband were attacked in their home here on East 46th Street Wednesday evening.
Somebody got in the house and attacked me and my husband and I m all bloody.
And I m an old woman, Mrs. Anderson told the dispatcher.
And I m on the floor and my husband s been hit in the head.
THE HORRIFIC 911 call can be heard here:Help would come too late.
Anderson s husband, 97-year-old Rupert Anderson, a WWII veteran, died after the attack.Minutes after police arrived, 19-year-old suspected killer Ngor Makuey walked past the police car of one of the responding officers with blood on his sweatshirt.
The police car s dash camera caught a shot of Makuey.
It was shown to neighbors and he was arrested.
Police say what makes this case so disturbing, there didn t seem to be a motive for the attack, and Makuey has no criminal history.
Zero history.
I mean zero.
There s nothing until last night, said Des Moines Police Sergeant Jason Halifax, (He) knocked on the door, and I think the initial request was something about a pet.
No known connection between him and a pet.
We don t believe he has a pet or had a pet there at any time.
She made some comment about what the hours of the business are and then the assault begins.
Makuey was found at his parents home about a block away from the Andersons.
He in charged with murder and attempted murder.
Makuey is not a US citizen.
His parents, who immigrated to the US from Ethiopia 12-years ago, think their son is innocent.The 19 yr old Ethiopian s mother apparently has a little trouble with the truth: I never seen that kid get in trouble with somebody else, said Makuey s father, Jinud Ruath.
He s a very respectful child.
And he never disrespects anyone.
I ve never seen him get in a fight with other people.
Via: WHOTVMakuey s attorney used the insanity defense during the trial, but witnesses say they saw no signs of mental illness.Makuey received a sentence of life in prison plus two years sentence for Count 2 as well as ordered to pay a restitution of $150,000.
Count 2 is assault with intent to commit serious injury.