If there s one Republican we know that is absolutely devastated that Donald Trump is the GOP s front runner, it s former presidential candidate Mitt Romney.In an interview that trumps his previous attacks on the business mogul, Romney laid into The Donald for his racism, xenophobia and misogyny and admitted that Trump has made it ethically impossible for Romney to support his party in this election.
In an interview with CNN s Wolf Blitzer, Romney said: I simply can t put my name down as someone who voted for principles that suggest racism or xenophobia, misogyny, bigotry, [for someone] who s been vulgar time and time again.
I don t want to be associated with that in any way, shape or form.
Like many prominent GOP leaders, Romney was left disgusted by Trump s recent racially charged remarks about Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who is overseeing lawsuits on the fraudulent Trump University.
According to Romney, it s too late for Trump to rebrand himself as anything but the hateful, racist, privileged individual he is he s shown far too much of his true character to redeem himself.
He indicated what he believes in his heart about Mexicans and about race by the comments he made about Judge Curiel, and he may try to distance himself from that, but we know what he believes.
Romney also slammed Trump for refusing to apologize for his many offensive statements about anyone who isn t a white male, and wondered what having such a horrible person in the White House would mean for America s future.
I don t want to see trickle-down racism.
I don t want to see a president of the United States saying things which change the character of the generations of Americans that are following.
Presidents have an impact on the nature of our nation.
And trickle-down racism, trickle-down bigotry, trickle-down misogyny, all these things are extraordinarily dangerous to the heart and character of America.
This is not a matter of just policy.
It s more a matter of character and integrity.
You can watch Romney rip Trump below:Mitt Romney says Donald Trump will change America with trickle-down racism https://t.co/IhUqGGoW37 https://t.co/sgiEKgx998 The Situation Room (@CNNSitRoom) June 10, 2016Without giving any names, Romney also expressed genuine disappointment in other Republican leaders that continue to support Trump even though many of them (like House Speaker Paul Ryan) have acknowledged that what Trump said was racist beyond doubt.
I wish everybody in the Republican Party had rejected Mr. Trump and chosen someone else.
Romney said there was no chance in hell he would be giving a racist like Trump his vote, and is considering voting for Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson instead.You can watch the full interview below:This interview ruined Trump s day, and he responded by acting like a child and tweeting about it:TwitterFeatured image via Ethan Miller / Getty Images