John Oliver has taken aim at the section of the financial services industry which has seen the most complaints registered with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and it s beautiful.Credit reporting agencies like Experian, Equifax and TransUnion are responsible for providing an accurate assessment of a person s credit worthiness.
Their verdict decides whether a person can get a loan, buy a house, rent an apartment, or even get a job.
But something has been going very wrong in the industry.Oliver notes that over half of employers are now conducting credit searches before choosing to hire prospective employees even though someone s credit rating has zero link to their job experience or skill level.What s worse, is that this largely unregulated industry has been found to supply false information up to 30% of the time.
And those affected won t even know that the company is attributing false information in their name until the report has been submitted and the damage has been done.A faulty credit report caused by some clerical error has the potential to reap havoc in your life and yet, it is happening all the time.
Oliver cites the case of a man attempting to rent his dream apartment who ended up fighting allegations of being a terrorist after the credit company s faulty criminal background check.No surprise then that more people complain about credit report agencies to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, that anyone else.
Yet, the industry recently boasted about being right 95% of the time.
Oliver explains exasperatedly: But when you are holding records for more than 200 million individuals, that 5 percent error rate affects 10 million people.
They re basically saying, Great news everyone, we only f*cked up a group equivalent to the entire population of Sweden!
We re the f*cking greatest!
Oliver takes revenge by setting up new websites for the leading companies in this remarkably dodgy industry.Experian becomes Experianne.com: a company that specializes in whispering passages from Mein Kampf into the ears of babies, without the permission of parents or the babies themselves.
With the important disclaimer: Please do not mistake us for Experian.
What they do is unforgivable.
TransUnion becomes Tramsonion.com: We re a company whose only business is selling steaks made out of dead orcas from SeaWorld!
And of course: We are not affiliated with TransUnion.
We are not monsters.
Equinox becomes Equifacks.com: a company which Takes an animal from a shelter that needs a good home, lets it come to your house to lick peanut butter off your dick, and then immediately returns it to the shelter.
Make sure you don t mistake them for Equifax though, because Those f*ckers are evil.
Nice work Mr Oliver, nice work.
Featured image via screen capture