A mother s heart-wrenchingly true Facebook post is going viral following yesterday s Senate vote on gun legislation, despite her having written it just a few days after the Orlando massacre.
To put it bluntly, Senate Republicans have a bad habit of saying they re voting for law abiding gun owners, and for gun owners rights, when they vote down gun legislation.
They aren t. They re voting against children even extremely young children.
Innocent children.
American children.
Their children and grandchildren.
Politicians take a look.
This is your child, your children, your grandchildren, your great grand children and future generations to come.
They will live their lives and grow up in this world based on your decisions.
They are barely 3 and they will hide in bathroom stalls standing on top of toilet seats.
I do not know what will be harder for them?
Trying to remain quiet for an extended amount of time or trying to keep their balance without letting a foot slip below the stall door?
Stacey Wehrman Feeley took a picture of her three-year old daughter standing on top of their toilet, and she originally thought this was simply the hijinks of a young child and she wanted to show her husband.
Then her daughter told her what she was really doing: She was practicing for lockdown drills at her school.An innocent three-year old is practicing for lockdown drills.
Why should a three-year old even have to worry about gun violence at her school, or anywhere else?That prompted the long Facebook post that contains the above paragraph, but that s not all she said.
Feeley also said: No one thinks gun control will be 100% crime control.
But maybe, just maybe, it helps 1% or 2% or 50%?
Who knows unless we try?
Why on earth are there not universal background checks?
Where is a universal registration database?
Why are high capacity magazines ever permitted to be sold to anyone other than direct to the military?
Is that really necessary to protect yourself or hunt for that matter?
What about smart guns, where are they?
That is the question, isn t it?
Republicans tend to parrot the NRA s line that these measures won t stop criminals or terrorists, so we shouldn t enact them at all.
Democrats, too, do that to some degree, but not the way Republicans do.
CNN called yesterday s votes tough election year politics, and mentioned longstanding disputes over what would be effective.
Sadly, they re correct when they say this was expected.There s a reason the GOP is called the Party of No.
They d rather do nothing at all than piss off their handlers, all while manipulating and controlling language to sound like they re the good guys.What Feeley is saying isn t, I have the solution.
It s We need to start somewhere, and all these ideas have been on and off the table for years.
Why has nothing been done?
And that s the question that all our politicians need to start answering.
It s also a question that the NRA needs to start answering, since they re among the loudest more guns voices out there.The face that politicians particularly members of the Party of No need to see isn t just the face of the victims in Orlando, or the victims of shootings that already happened.
It s the children who have to live in a world where they aren t safe anywhere, even at home, because Congress patently refuses to even try.Read her full post below:Featured image via embedded Facebook post