An ice cream parlor in Orange County, California, turned down money from a Muslim-bashing customer after he insulted a Muslim woman in the store who was sitting and enjoying ice cream.22-year-old Nura Takkish was the target of the bigot.Takkish was sitting with two of her friends at Andrew s Ice Cream and Dessert in Orange County, California, on Monday, May 23, when they noticed a commotion at the counter.
A customer was being asked to leave for saying racist and nasty things, the shop s baker, Jessie Noah, later told The Huffington Post.Takkish s friend Malaak Ammari started to record the incident on her phone.When you just trying to eat your ice cream but trump supporters won't let you live pic.twitter.com/rW3MI8a2pn palestina (@itsdatnunu) May 24, 2016The baker handed the bigot back his $3, telling him, You can give somebody else your business.
Cindy Ramsay, wife of the shop owner added, If you can t be nice, we don t want you.
On his way out, the defeated bigot yelled again:As he heads to the door, the man points a finger at the two women in headscarves and says, I don t want them near my country.
Too bad, we re here, Ammari replies, still filming.
Sucks for you.
Sucks for me?
You ll see what happens, the man replies threateningly.
Then Noah walks to the door and closes it as the man walks away.Donald Trump has made anti-Muslim bigotry one of the centerpieces of his presidential campaign.
He issued a call for Muslims to be barred from travel to the United States, and repeated the message in a press release and a live media event.The attacks on Muslims have been repudiated by civil rights organizations and leading politicians like President Obama, Hillary Clinton, and Bernie Sanders.
Even some Republicans have said Trump s attack on Muslims is beyond the pale and not reflective of American values.The Trump campaign, after winning the nomination, has attempted to step away from some of those comments.
But his most ardent supporters, and a majority of Republicans according to multiple polls, share the same view of Muslims as the bigot in the ice cream parlor.Featured image via Twitter