This soldier s story is shocking and heartbreaking, but serves as a serious warning about what we, as a nation are getting ourselves into if we bring hundreds of thousands of people to our country whose beliefs are diametrically opposed to ours.
These are also people who have no intention of assimilating in our country, as their actions are justified as part of their faith I don t typically go on rants or express my political beliefs here (Facebook), but I just have to get this off my mind.As some of you know, I m active duty Army.
Aside from that, I am a medic.
I ve spent 3 years of my life overseas in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
I ve seen some pretty atrocious sites caused by war, from both sides.
I ve picked up blown up body parts of friends and I ve saved the lives of guys who were trying to kill me and my guys right before I was keeping them from their 72 virgins or whatever they believe awaits them on the other side.Here is an unbiased truthful view to the Syrian refugee situation.My first deployment to Iraq, in 2006, my unit voluntarily ran a childrens burn clinic outside of the FOB.
It was a constant target for attacks.
You would think that people wouldn t shoot mortars or rockets at their own children, but you would be wrong.
We saw hundreds of children, from infants to 18 year olds.
The overwhelming majority of the kids we saw (90% or better) were clear cases of abuse.
These parents were literally dunking their kids in boiling water, or throwing hot chai at their kids faces Yes, we re talking about babies, toddlers, kids not even old enough to understand why their parents would do these things to them.
HUNDREDS of kids We saw quite a few of these kids that were sexually abused, both girls and boys.
Their parents acted if nothing was wrong with this, even when confronted by our doctors.This is the mentality of their society, not the viewpoint of a few individuals these beliefs have been accepted to the vast majority of these people.
Many were educated, well dressed, well spoken men, but yet, they still raped their own children, and kept chai boys (if you don t know what that means, google it.
)During that deployment, we also captured the 3rd largest EFP cache that had ever been captured.
There were hundreds of copper plates, homemade explosives, fake curbs to house the EFP s, hundreds of mortars and rockets and howitzer rounds, even an anti-aircraft gun.
All of these things came from one place, Syria.
Almost every single IED or EFP we found or hit could be traced back to Syria A lot of the terrorists we captured were from SYRIA Imagine that.Fast forward a couple years, and I find myself in Helmand Province, in Afghanistan We had a group of Afghani s that were paid to help guard our little mud hut in the middle of an Afghan village (I wasn t on a fob) These guys also kept a chai boy A boy, about 11 years old, who was there to serve these guys sexually.
We heard him being sexually assaulted many times, but there was nothing we could do about it.
We asked the police, the Afghan Army, and we were told the same thing every time .
it s their culture, and accepted as the norm .Once again, we captured Syrian made explosives, weapons, and other items We found Syrian passports during raids And people out there want us to let these people into the US, with our kids, and near our wives.
Near our schools, near our churches, synogogues, malls.
Places where we should never have to fear being blown up, shot, kidnapped and tortured Don t forget what they did to the Egyptian Coptic Christians, or the Jordanian pilot Don t forget about what they do to rape victims!
They stone these women to death for being raped!
They behead their own people.
Do you think they will show mercy to you?Look at the rape statistics in Denmark, Sweden, Belgium.
Facts don t lie 97% of rapes committed in Sweden were committed by Muslim immigrants And you want 10,000 of these people here?
Even if just 1% of these so called refugees were ISIS supporters or active ISIS terrorists, would that be acceptable to you?Chew on it think about it.
Take a good look at your kids or your wife and decide if the risk is worth taking.
Feel free to share this if you want.-Christopher Allard, Facebook post Nov. 16, 2015Christopher Allard posted this plea (below) for donations to the Scania Burn Clinic on Nov. 18, 2015, as a follow up to his Facebook commentary (which has since been removed).
If you re so inclined, he would appreciate your donations.A little follow-up for you guys and gals.
First, let me thank you guys for sharing my story.
I cannot tell you how much I appreciate the support.
Second.
I forgot about this, but there is a video on Youtube of the burn clinic that I mentioned.
It s an old video and the quality isn t great but here it is.
You can see me throughout the video: