Admitting to the United States something most of the population already knew considering the popular vote went to Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump just proved to the nation that he has no principles.He told all of us back in February that he would never settle the Trump University lawsuits.
He would never do so out of principle!
Trump University has a 98% approval rating.
I could have settled but won't out of principle!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 29, 2016But, uh oh!
Look what just happened!JUST IN: Trump has agreed to settle all 3 Trump University cases for $25 million, source says.
https://t.co/KcO1gb9Ef3 @AaronKatersky pic.twitter.com/ZnWLFbMcDn ABC News (@ABC) November 18, 2016According to ABC News: Attorneys for President-elect Donald Trump have settled all three fraud civil lawsuits against the now-defunct Trump University for $25 million and no admission of wrongdoing, according to attorneys on both sides.
But you know, you always fork out $25 million when you re completely innocent, right?
C mon now.
He probably settled so there wouldn t be the optics of a president-elect likely being found guilty just before his inauguration.
Settling it makes it go away.
It also proves Trump to, yet again, be a raging liar, because he did end up settling after all.In fact, Trump s lead attorney Daniel Petrocelli said: We can all put the history behind us and move forward.
That is certainly the view of President-elect Trump who looks forward to tackling the problems of our country.
With the Trump organization saying they know he would have won but now Trump can focus on the nation.Oh, what a stand-up guy.
Just throwing away $25 million for the good of the nation.
Yeah.
That s it.
Sure.Needless to say, a fraud case going into the presidency would not have looked good and now the president-elect can put it behind him, albeit now with no principles.
At least that s what Trump said of himself if he settled, which he did, so there you have it.Featured Photo by Zach Gibson/Getty Images