That s right, according to the latest NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist polls, zero percent of black voters say that they are supporting Donald Trump in the battleground states of Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Zero.
Zip.
Zilch.
Nada.
Surprised?
Nope, me either and it s likely that neither is anyone else who has been paying attention even a little.Trump is tied with Hillary Clinton in Ohio.
NBC reports that 11 percent of the 848 registered voters in the poll were African-American and they went for Clinton 88 percent to 0 percent.Clinton holds a nine-point lead over Trump in Pennsylvania.
Of the 829 voters in the poll, 10 percent were African-American and they chose Clinton 91 percent to 0 percent.The NBC/WSJ/Marist polls were conducted between July 5-10 and also included Iowa, but there were not enough African-Americans voters polled in that state for a statistically significant sample.Trump has said repeatedly that black people are going to vote for him and insists that they are going to like him more than they like Obama.
Why in the world he would have such a ridiculous notion is unclear.
Over and over we have seen black protesters assaulted at his rallies, often shouting such lovely sentiments as light that motherf*cker on fire.
Trump has made an appalling habit of retweeting white supremacists.
White nationalists have made robocalls on his behalf in multiple states.
At the same time, he has slammed the Black Lives Matter movement for being too divisive.
And these examples don t even include his bigoted rhetoric towards Mexicans and Muslims.He may deny it, but he knows he is in trouble when it comes to voters of color, that would be why he tweeted a fake photo of an African-American family who supposedly supported him.
No sane black person would even consider casting their vote for this racist piece of sh*t egomaniac.Zero percent support is exactly what he should expect from the African-American community.
But judging from the way he has pandered to white supremacists, it is unlikely that these are the voters he s really after anyway.
Whether he admits it or not, though, he can t win the presidency without them.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images