It would appear that Donald Trump knows his base of voters don t pay attention to facts and reality, so he s going to keep perpetuating myths and propaganda to anger these people into voting for him even though his claims hold no basis in reality.
And in the world of politics and mudslinging, it doesn t much matter as long as your message sticks and you get votes.
However, these lies will get debunked, and there s nothing to stop that either.It s become very clear at this point that the presumptive Republican nominee has switched into attack mode against Democratic front-funner Hillary Clinton.
If he s not going after her for what her husband did, he s going after her for literally being a woman.Now, knowing how much many conservatives can t wrap their heads around the fact that the Obama administration, including then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, did no wrongdoing in regards to the attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya, he s going to keep pushing the issue anyway.
Never mind the fact that there has been probe after probe after probe.Trump tweeted this out to stir the pot, yet again:Hillary has bad judgment!
https://t.co/LhcIU6kmxs Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2016Which then leads you to this: Hillary has bad judgment!A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on May 10, 2016 at 10:25am PDTLet s be clear on this.
There is a very strong likelihood that before all this happened, Trump thought Libya was a female body part, so he s clearly just using this as an attack plan and may not even understand all the details of the event in question.
He s a bully though, and being a bully he s going to keep ripping at old scabs even though they re all dried up.When every poll shows Hillary Clinton wiping the floor with Trump among women, minorities and the youth vote, he s got to do something.
He s desperate, and this is likely just one of many desperate moves to come out of the Trump campaign.Bringing up Benghazi again after Clinton has been cleared again and again and again.
C mon now, Donald.
That s just pathetic, and clearly a distraction tactic away from the fact that you are most certainly not prepared to be the leader of the free world.Featured Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images