The Swedish identity will be wiped out in 20-30 years.
This is sadly, a look into the future for all of Europe As a current resident of Sweden, I sometimes find myself questioning my own sanity.
All these problems I blog about are right there in the open for anyone to see and getting worse by the year, yet media and politicians act as if everything is hunky-dory.
Most people on the street also appears to be completely oblivious to details like the enormous increase of burning cars in the ghettos, the 1472% increase in rapes and the ever bolder gangs choking their enclaves with drugs and violence.So I find myself wondering, am I missing something?
Why aren t people reacting?
Is it really reasonable that so many are in a state of denial?
Or am I somehow misinterpreting all this?That s why it s oddly reassuring that the neighboring Nordic countries are in the same boat.
Denmark has voiced concerns about the utterly weak background check of immigrants from the middle east, fearing radical Islamists entering Sweden as asylum seekers with the intent of building Scandinavian terror cells.
My very first post on this blog was about a Danish politician openly pleading for Sweden to come to its senses.Norway isn t too pleased either, and they dare speak openly about the problems brewing in the cities of their neighbor.In a new report called Oslo 2022, the Norwegian police explicitly use Sweden in general and the town of S dert lje as a warning example.
This prompted Aftonposten, one of the major Norwegian newspapers, to do two articles on Sweden s out-of-control immigration.In the first part, Norwegian reporters traveled to S dert lje outside Stockholm.
Entitled We all live in the same town, but not in the same world, the article chronicles a town in complete segregation where the immigrants gain ground every year and everyone who can escapes.
Violence, drugs, lawlessness and decay eats away at the town like a cancer.
Why is this allowed to happen?
the reporter asks.
Because the Swedes are weak, says 36-year old Simon Melkemichel.
The Swedish identity will be wiped out in 20-30 years.
The second part is called Sweden has lost control over their immigration and has representatives for the Norwegian government comment on the fact that, well, Sweden has lost control over their immigration.
What makes it noteworthy is the difference in tone compared to the Swedish political debate.As in Denmark, the Norwegian leftist worker s party have a very different view on immigration than the Swedish sister party Socialdemokraterna (currently in power).
In Norway and Denmark, they make a point of restricting the inflow and checking the backgrounds carefully.In Sweden, there are literally no limits, and any background check beyond scratching the surface is considered racist and shut down by management as has been repeatedly revealed by bloggers like Merit Wager.Not surprisingly, the police report and the articles have ruffled quite a few feathers in Sweden s political and medial elite.
But equally predictably, the Swedish response is not to acknowledge the problems, but to whine about the mean Norwegian pseudo-fascists having the gall to criticize Sweden s enlightened stance.While it doesn t do squat to fix anything, it s at least reassuring that I m not the one losing my mind.
Via: Sweden Report