Amateur president Donald Trump pledged to forego a presidential salary and his spokesperson Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in mid-January that the former reality show star is required to get a paycheck but will be giving it back to (the) treasury or donating.
In 2015, Trump said, I won t take even one dollar.
I am totally giving up my salary if I become president.
However, Trump s second payday is quickly approaching and the White House is declining to say if the alleged president has donated any of his earnings yet, NBC reports.Here is Trump pledging to his supporters in 2015 that he will forgo his salary:To follow up on Trump s pledge, MSNBC requested details and documentation regarding any salary donations from the White House, the Treasury Department and the Office of Personnel Management, but all declined to say whether Trump has donated any the salary due to him.Article II of the Constitution requires a president to be paid so Trump promised to only accept $1.00.
That added to Trump s populist appeal but now he s not being transparent about his pledge after the election.Here s where it gets even worse.During the transition, Trump also unveiled a plan to donate all profits from foreign governments patronage of his hotels and similar businesses to the Treasury Department.
The plan was released by Trump s private law firm, Morgan Lewis, but no system or accounting has been released for how or when such donations will be processed or disclosed.A president earns $400,000 and is afforded a $50,000 expense account.
Trump has broken many promises to his supporters.
Mexico will not pay for the wall.
We, the taxpayers, will foot the bill.
Hillary Clinton won t be locked up.
But, he is trying to repeal Obamacare, a move which would largely affect Trump supporters.
As for his Drain the swamp slogan during his campaign, he s filled it to the brim with bankers and billionaires.We re thinking that Trump really doesn t need a salary.
He has already greatly profited from the presidency.Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images