Senate Democrats had one last, huge move planned to stop Betsy DeVos from being confirmed as Education secretary an all-night debate marathon on the Senate floor.
Their ultimate goal?
To convince at least one more Republican senator to vote against her and thus stop her confirmation in its tracks.Politico reports that what they referred to as a Hail Mary move was already underway as of Monday afternoon, and is scheduled to continue until noon today.
As of now, Tuesday s vote is expected to be a 50-50 tie with Vice President Mike Pence casting the tie-breaking vote in favor of DeVos.
This would be another first, as never before has a tie-breaker been needed for a Cabinet secretary to be confirmed.To be clear, the 24-hour marathon is not a filibuster, which is meant to postpone a vote.
The goal here is to sway just one more Republican to cast their vote against DeVos, as this would be enough to keep her from being confirmed.GOP senators have been inundated with tens of thousands of phone calls and emails from constituents begging them not to vote for DeVos, who doesn t have a clue what the hell the Secretary of Education is even supposed to do.
(For reference, this is the woman who thinks schools need guns in case of grizzly bear attacks.
Insert eye-twitch here.
)Democrats have been unanimous in their opposition to DeVos.
Patty Murray, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Health, Labor, Education and Pensions Committee, promised that Dems would do everything we can to persuade just one more Republican to join us, and I strongly encourage people across the country to join us to double down on your advocacy and to keep making your voices heard for these last 24 hours.
Two Republicans have already broken rank with the GOP on the issue of DeVos confirmation.
Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkoswki of Alaska have already announced that they will not support her for Secretary of Education and intend to vote no on her confirmation.
Other Republicans have let it be known that they are still on the fence.
Those opposed to DeVos have been holding rallies in the home states of several lawmakers they are targeting specifically, including Sens.
Deb Fischer (R-Neb.
), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.).
You can watch the debate marathon live, here: Or here:Read more:Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images