A Denver, Colorado doctor under fire for a bizarre racial rant about First Lady Michelle Obama will probably keep her job anyway.
Dr. Michelle Herren, who works at Denver Health Medical Center, had an anti-Obama meltdown on her Facebook page.Herren posted a photo of Michelle Obama yelling on Facebook.
Under the photo, Herren wrote: Doesn t seem to be speaking too eloquently here, thank god we can t hear her!
Harvard???
That s a place for entitled folks said all the liberals!
Herren then added, Monkey face and poor ebonic English!!!
There!
I feel better and am still not racist!!!
Just calling it like it is!
Herren has a non-paid faculty appointment at CU School of Medicine, who announced that they would be terminating their relationship with the doctor.
We are beginning the process to terminate Dr. Herren s faculty appointment, Mark Couch, spokesman for the school, said Thursday.
She has expressed values that are at odds with ours and she has compromised her ability to meet the teaching and patient care mission of the School of Medicine.
But her position at the Medical Center is likely to remain intact because her offensive comments were made outside of her workplace.
They are also protected by her First Amendment rights because the hospital operates under the state, and government employees have the ability to make such comments outside of work.Dr.
John Reilly Jr., the CU vice chancellor for health affairs, wrote a letter condemning Herren s smear: Your comments and tone are harmful to the students we teach and the patients we care for.
Your derogatory, insensitive remarks have resulted in harm to others in our community and beyond.
For almost every day that she has been First Lady, conservatives have hurled a never-ending stream of hate and invective towards Michelle Obama.
But despite the hatred, she has become one of the most popular and admired public figures in all of America.
Many have signed petitions asking her to run for public office such as the Senate or even the White House, but she has said she wants to return to private life when President Obama leaves office.Featured image via YouTube