World Hijab Day is coming up and the capital of Canada plans on celebrating it.
It s no secret that the newly elected liberal leader of Canada is having a love affair with Islam.
There s even talk that he s converted to Islam.
A recent Youtube video shows him praying at a mosque: Canada is a great example of you get what you vote for .
Liberal PM Justin Trudeau has embraced flooding Canada with as many Muslim refugees as possible.
More, more, more If this continues, Canada will soon be like Europe.
Note that housing and funding is really difficult for some of these refugees.
Economies cannot and should not have to fund these refugees: Hundreds of government-sponsored refugees have struggled to find housing and remain in hotels in Toronto, where the housing market is tight and expensive.
CANADA HAS TAKEN IN NEARLY 25,000 SYRIAN REFUGEES SINCE NOVEMBER:Liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was elected in October on a promise to accept more Syrian refugees more quickly than the previous Conservative government had allowed, but the original deadline for accepting 25,000 by the end of 2015 proved too ambitious and the timeline was extended by two months.During his election campaign, Trudeau said a Liberal government would work with private sponsors to accept even more than the immediate goal of 25,000, and Immigration Minister John McCallum said in December the government could double the intake to 50,000 by the end of 2016.WORLD HIJAB DAY:This Thursday, February 25, 2016, the city of Ottawa will be holding a public event celebrating the hijab, Islam s physical repression of women.The City for All Women Initiative (CAWI) organization, backed by the City Council of Ottawa, is hosting the Ottawa Hijab Solidarity Day celebration, also called Walking with Our Muslims Sisters, at City Hall.
According to CAWI, the main purpose of this event is to encourage non-Muslim women to wear a hijab to understand life as a Muslim woman.The outrage is that such an event will be taking place under the auspices of the City of Ottawa, the capital of Canada.
Under Islamic Shari a law, the hijab is an expression of the suppression of women and is used as a tool to persecute women by their male counterparts.HERE S THE INFORMATION: Ottawa Hijab Solidarity Day (Councillor s Lounge, City Hall) You are here: Home Ottawa Hijab Solidarity Day (Councillor s Lounge, City Hall) Location: Councillor s Lounge (2nd Floor) City Hall Date: Thursday, 25 February, 2016 16:00 to 18:00 Event Details: A reception where people are welcome to stop by anytime, between 4:00 6:00pm to learn from Muslim women about their experience of wearing a hijab and where women from other backgrounds can experience wearing one.Join us in celebrating Muslim women through CAWI s social media campaign.
Show messages of support with #hijabsolidarityOr hold a hijab solidarity day event in your workplace or community organization.
See here some guidelines for doing so.
Join with us in promoting awareness and understanding.Via: BCF