On Tuesday, the day after he won the Republican Party s Iowa caucus, presidential hopeful Ted Cruz admitted that his campaign had sent out an email alert implying that political rival Ben Carson was dropping out of the race.The email warned that Carson was leaving the campaign trail after Iowa, and said that he would be making a formal announcement next week.
Recipients of the email were instructed to spread this lie among Carson supporters during the caucuses.
Please inform any Carson caucusgoers of this news and urge them to caucus for Ted Cruz.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.As Addicting Info reported here on February 2, Ben Carson told his supporters in a speech on caucus night: For months, my campaign has survived the lies and dirty tricks from opponents who profess to detest the games of the political class, but in reality are masters at it.
On Tuesday, Cruz sort of apologized for the deceptive emails, claiming it was all just an innocent mistake on the part of his campaign staff.According to Cruz s statement, circulating false rumors as breaking news is fair game, while circulating the truth just wasn t a priority.Last night when our political team saw the CNN post saying Dr. Carson was not carrying on to New Hampshire and South Carolina, our campaign updated the grassroots leaders just as we would with any breaking news story.
That s fair game.What the team should have done is send around the follow-up statement from the Carson campaign clarifying that he was indeed staying in the race when that came out.That was a mistake from our end, and for that I apologize to Dr. Carson.Ted s apology also didn t explain why Carson s follow-up statement, which made it clear that he was not dropping out of the race, wasn t seen as a breaking news story, by the Cruz campaign.
But I think we can figure that out for ourselves.Carson wasn t the only candidate to be dogged by dirty republican politics during the Iowa caucuses.A post circulated on social media claimed that Jeb Bush was paying people $25 an hour to fill seats during the caucus.In Des Moines and need some quick money apparently Jeb Bush will pay you to listen to him.
pic.twitter.com/NXExjSAB64 Jeff Sadosky (@JeffSadosky) February 1, 2016During Bush s Iowa rally, two men, who later claimed to be paid actors, stood up and began loudly demanding payment for attending the event.
We ve been here for two hours and we haven t been paid, one said.Bush responded by having the men escorted out of the rally.
Here s video of the men being escorted out, courtesy of the UK s Daily Mail.After the uproar died down, Bush asked the crowd, Have the YR s (Young Republicans) gone yet?
He went on to tell the audience That s what we used to do back in the day, we would come to other campaigns and do what they did.
Good old GOP family values.
Teach the kids how to lie, steal, cheat and con people in order to get what they want.As Jeb himself so plainly put it, following the caucus night debacle, Those are the tactics used by the republican party.And as Carson pointed out, the more they point fingers and accuse others of dirty politics, theFeatured image credit from Gage Skidmore via Flickr