Not a bad imitation of a black pastor from a guy who quit going to church when he entered the White House because according to Reverend Wright, of the Black Liberation Church where Barack and Michelle Obama attended for several years: Church is not their thing.
It never was their thing.
CNN s Don Lemon: You know, Brooke, um this is quite possibly one of the most powerful and extraordinary moments that I ve witnessed ah on television, especially a speech coming from the President.
I ve never really at a loss for words, and I m almost at a loss for words right now.
I mean, Van and I couldn t even look at each other.Van Jones (racist and self proclaimed communist): Yeah Because this is what happens in the black church every single morning.DL: Not only that, this is what many people around the country wanted to hear from this president, for a long, long time.
It s time to step into your legacy.Van Jones: It really is.
This is a different President, this year, I think has transformed him.
I think a year ago Ferguson, then Baltimore, now Charleston.
I think you re seeing the 3.0 version.
When he first came on the scene, he was trying to talk about race, even his book was about race.
He was trying DL: But he was getting hit.VJ: He kept getting hit.
He became a politician.
Yeah..he became the racial pi ata of the blacks saying he wasn t doing enough, the whites saying he was doing too much.
Suddenly in this speech he just decides to give over to the cadences.DL: He said it in the podcast man.
He said: I am fearless.
And you know, once you re fearless, and once you don t give a damn no one can stop you.
And I think the President is in that mode now.
He knows this is his legacy.Obama was supposed to be delivering a eulogy for Pastor Clementa Pinckney, but instead he chose to turn it into another one of his divisive racist rants.
Oh and by the way once the left has removed every trace of the Confederate flag, he s coming after your guns.
Then, and only then will his legacy be complete.
Molon Labe https://youtu.be/FWVq1WnICqYAnd for anyone who is interested in hearing the most off-key version of Amazing Grace sung by a muslim, you can see it here:https://youtu.be/WmRAxJIa0u8Not bad for a guy who quit going to church when he entered the White House because according to Reverend Wright, of the Black Liberation Church where Barack and Michelle Obama attended for several years: Church is not their thing.
It never was their thing.