Donald Trump s Andrew Jackson-Civil War debacle just continues to get worse and worse.Yesterday, Trump had a massive history fail during a radio interview, where the moronic POTUS stated that Andrew Jackson who had died 16 years before the Civil War even started was angry that the war had not been avoided.
Trump also said that Jackson could have stopped the Civil War from happening, lavishing praise upon the slave-owning seventh president.
And apparently, Trump also thinks that HE could have stopped the Civil War.Trump s disgusting Civil War comments have prompted Andrew Jackson biographer and historian Jon Meacham, the author of American Lion: Andrew Jackson in the White House, to speak out and address Trump s comments.
According to Meacham, it was White House chief strategist Steve Bannon that made Trump fall in love with Jackson.
The historian explained on MSNBC today: I spent an hour, hour and a half with him in May of 16 talking with him about presidents he admired and Jackson never came up.
Steve Bannon put this in the conversation after the victory saying this was a Jacksonian moment.
It was then that Trump connected himself to Jackson in his usual superficial way.
Meacham said: It s a projection of the president s fundamental and enveloping narcissism.
And then Meacham dropped this bombshell: He told me a year and a half ago or so, a year ago, that, you know, he thought he could have done a deal to have averted the war.
Yes, Trump actually said he could have prevented the war with one of his deals.
If it s anything like the deals and failed legislation we ve seen so far during his presidency, it s safe to say that Trump would have f*cked that up, too.Meacham also said that being in the White House tends to enhance the fundamental characteristics of the serving presidents which is awful news for America right now.
Meacham said: It s very hard, once you re there, to change.
Some people do, and that s why we talk about them as great presidents.
But most people, once they re in the Oval Office, actually just become more like themselves and I think in this case that s on a particularly tragic trajectory.
We couldn t agree more.
You can watch Meacham take on Trump s Civil War comments below:This is must-watch: @jmeacham, who won a Pulitzer Prize for his Andrew Jackson biography, on Trump s disturbing Jackson/Civil War comments pic.twitter.com/RsD5uOkuvx Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) May 2, 2017Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images