Newly released video shows a group of Texas inmates breaking out of their cell to save the life of their jailer.According to KUSA, on June 23 an armed guard who was monitoring a group of inmates in Parker County, Texas suddenly slumped over.
Nick Kelton, one of eight inmates who put their own lives on the line to help their jailer, said at first the men in the cell thought the guard was putting on some kind of act.
After shouting and trying to rouse the guard, however, the group of men in the cell realized something was very wrong.Kelton says they attempted to call for help, but no one outside of the locked room heard their shouts.
In desperation, the eight prisoners forced open the door of their cell.Kelton told KUSA that when they reached the guard he did not have a pulse.
Some of the panicked inmates began banging on doors and yelling for help while others tried to administer medical aid.According to Kelton, the eight men were aware of the risk they were taking.
We were worried they re going to come with guns drawn on us, he told KUSA.The inmate s actions finally got the attention of officers outside the room.
A group of guards did rush in with guns drawn.
They thought it was a fight, a second inmate, Floyd Smith, told KUSA.
They thought we were taking over.
The officer s immediately herded the eight prisoners back into the cell.
The unidentified guard was given CPR until paramedics arrived on the scene.
He is expected to make a full recovery.Police Captain Mark Arnett credits the inmates for saving the life of the guard, who works for a private security firm.
He could have been there 15 minutes before any other staff walked in and found him, Arnett told KUSA.Arnett pointed out that the unconscious guard had the keys and a gun.
The eight inmates could have behaved much differently in those circumstances.
When asked why the prisoners put themselves at risk to save their jailer, Kelton replied: I watched him die twice.
It never crossed my mind not to help whether he s got a gun or a badge.
If he falls down, I m gonna help him.
Smith added, Seems natural to me.
Image credit: video screen capture KUSA