President Obama carried out his annual YouTube interview on Friday and revealed what he carried around with him each and every day inside his pockets.
While normally what s in a person s pockets might be self-explanatory (i.e.,.
phone, wallet, etc.)
the president is no ordinary person.
And the items he carries around aren t ordinary, either.
There s also an in-depth explanation for each one of them.Here s Obama in his own words: I stick these in my pocket to remind me of all the people I ve met along the way and the stories they ve told me.
So, this is what I had in my pocket today: this is rosary beads Pope Francis gave me that obviously means alot to me cause I so admire him and it makes me think about peace and promoting understanding and ethical behavior.
This is a little Buddha that a Buddhist monk gave me.
This is a lucky poker chip that s metal that this biker gave me.
This is a Hindu statuette of the monkey God Hanuman that a woman gave me.
And, I ve got a coptic cross; this is from Ethipia.
So, I ve got a whole bunch of this stuff but the reason I showed you these is because I carry them around all the time.
President Obama says he s not superstitious and reiterated that the real reason he carries them around is because he likes to be reminded of the people who gave him the distinct privilege of being President of the United States.Even though President Obama clearly carries around both a cross and rosary beads from the none other than the Pope himself, the only thing religious extremists can focus on is the Hindu monkey God and little Buddha.
Why is that?
They somehow think this is evidence that he really is the Antichrist, after all.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Now compare this to what George Bush is known to have had in his pockets.
In November 2005, at a roundtable with Latin American reporters, Bush was asked what he carried around with him.
Here is how he responded, according to the Associated Press: The president stood up, fished in his pockets, then dramatically pulled his hands out holding nothing but a white handkerchief that he waved playfully in the air.
He said: Es todo.
That s it.
No dinero.
No money.
No mas.
Nothing else.
No wallet.'
The joker that he was, he was also asked if he brought a watch, to which he replied: Si, Timex.
But I m not supposed to be endorsing products.
It s amazing how what s in a president s pockets can reveal what kind of commander-in-chief they are.
Clearly, Obama has put a lot of thought into this, while Bush hadn t.Featured image via screen capture.