There s a major problem with Trump considering Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, for official positions in the White House.
It s not that they re likely to be too close to his business ties, but rather, it s because ignoring the nepotism law and giving family members plum jobs like this is the act of a king, not a democratic president.The very opposite of America.While positions for them in Trump s White House are not yet set in stone, one of Trump s advisers has hinted loudly at Ivanka and Jared having formal positions in his administration.
Economist Robert Reich sees a serious problem here as anyone should and said on his Facebook page: Is anyone else uneasy about Trump s daughter and son-in-law becoming White House advisors to President Trump?
It s not just their extensive Trump business holdings and conflicts of interest that worry me.
It s also their family ties.We ve elected a president, not a king.A president hires advisors.
A king bestows privileges and titles on his family.A president wants advice from experts who will tell him what s in America s best interest.
A king wants advice from people who will tell him what s in his own personal best interest.A president assembles a White House staff.
A king assembles a court.A president dismisses advisors who don t perform.
A king doesn t get rid of family members, except when he cuts off their heads.
And that s it, in a nutshell.
That s the difference between the elected president of a democracy, and a man who would crown himself king like Cheetolini seems to want to do.What has the dark side of America done in electing this autocratic demagogue?
Trump supporters are brainwashed; that much is clear.
There are so many conflicts of interest with Trump as president that it s insane.
Now, those conflicts involve him giving his daughter and son-in-law jobs like a king bestowing lands and titles on his family.
Just like Reich said.Of course, there are people close to Trump who believe that the nepotism law doesn t apply, like Kellyanne Conway.
She recently said that the law has exceptions that can open up a realm of possibilities.
She then tried to assure us that there will be complete distinction and separation, without any ambiguity.Sure.
Right.
And Trump canceled the press conference where he was supposed to explain when and how he was divesting from his businesses because reasons.People whined up one side and down the other about the Bush dynasty and the Clinton dynasty during the election.
But who sees a problem with the dynasty that Trump is literally setting up, one that is unlike either the Bushes or the Clintons?
Trump s ensuring that his family has the ties they need to to take over after he s gone (whether he s gone via election or death).Reich is right.
We ve elected someone who s going to behave more like a king than a democratic president.
If Trump saw himself as president, he d stick by the nepotism law and the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution like they were etched in concrete, rather than looking for loopholes and exceptions to both.Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images