Tuesday night, retired neurosurgeon and former GOP presidential candidate Ben Carson delivered an unusual speech at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.Carson, one of Trump s biggest (and worst) supporters, arrived on stage with far more energy than he usually has (he actually looked awake) and launched into a predictable attack on Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
He encouraged Republicans to dispel the notion that a Hillary Clinton administration wouldn t be that bad, and said: It won t be four or eight years because she will be appointing people who will have an effect on generations, and America may never recover from that.
But then things got really weird.
Carson accused Clinton of idolizing liberal radical Saul Alinsky, who according to Carson is somebody who acknowledges Lucifer in his book Rules For Radicals.
Of course, no Republican s speech is ever complete without some bizarre, over-the-top religious reference, so it probably wasn t too shocking that Carson said: Are we willing to elect as president someone who has as their role model somebody who acknowledges Lucifer?
If we continue to allow (secular progressives) to take God out of our lives, God will remove himself from us.
We will not be blessed and our nation will go down the tubes We don t want that to happen.
If that accusation seemed strange or out of place, that s because it wasn t supposed to happen.
Carson had derailed and gone completely off the teleprompter for that part of the speech, according to several reporters at the convention.Carson s main point, somewhere within his baffling rant, was that America shouldn t be standing behind a presidential candidate that loves Satan.
And further proving to America that he s still batsh*t crazy, Carson actually tried to make the argument that Trump could be America s savior because he understands that the blessings of this nation come with the responsibility to ensure that they are available to all, not just the privileged few.
You can watch the speech below, courtesy of CNN:Featured image via screen capture