When Donald Trump banned the Washington Post from his events, he no doubt thought it was the boldest move yet in his war against the dishonest media.
The Post, however, is far from the first outlet to fall to Trump s wrath.
To date, Trump has actually banned nine media outlets from covering his events.
Nine.
But he won t stop until he s sure the coverage he s getting fits his definition of honest and fair.
The New York Times, whom Trump reviles but somehow hasn t totally banned yet, went to work compiling a list of blacklisted outlets after explaining why Trump banned the Post.
They added: In reality, of course, no one would be more miserable than Mr. Trump if these bans actually resulted in less coverage of his campaign.
That s a truth bomb if ever there was one.
Trump s need for glowing praise, kowtowing and general ass-kissing means he absolutely must hog as much of the spotlight as possible.
That includes all the favorable media coverage he can get.
But if he thinks that coverage will become more favorable after he bans outlets in fits of rage appropriate to a toddler, he ll be sorely disappointed.The truly funny thing about this is that he hasn t thought it through at all.
Reporters from blackballed outlets can still attend most of Trump s events as members of the general public.
They can t get credentials, and they can t attend his official press conferences, but they can still go to and cover rallies and other events.
That means that Trump is spiraling down into some serious delusions if he thinks these bans will solve his imagined problems with the media.So who, besides the Post, has he banned, and why?Besides banning entire outlets, he s barred reporters from Mother Jones, Fusion, and The New York Times, and claimed credit for getting The New Hampshire Union Leader dropped from a debate after they published a front-page op-ed denouncing him.In demonstration of his racism, The New Tri-State Defender, a traditionally black publication, can t even get responses to emails requesting credentials.
Yet he ll issue credentials to Alex Jones InfoWars, which is quite possibly one of the most craftily dumb conspiracy sites on the internet.Trump claims he won t ban any media from the White House press room when he s elected, telling CNN, It s a different thing.
He added: When I m representing the United States, I wouldn t do that.
But I would let people know if somebody s untruthful.
Oh, baloney.
The people of the U.S. will believe that when they see it.
However, that could go two ways.
One is obvious he ll keep banning the outlets he hates until there are none left to cover him.
The other is that he ll come to his senses, such as they are, and realize that a growing blacklist means less food for his narcissistic ego.
Either way, he s out of hand with his.
Featured image by Gerardo Mora/Getty Images