Remember when experts came out after Hillary collapsed following her visit to the 9-11 memorial in NYC and revealed that the odd blue-colored sunglasses Hillary was sporting that day are used by epileptic patients to avoid having a seizure.Who could forget Hillary s bizarre collapse that day, when her legs began to buckle and secret service agents grabbed her arms and threw her into the vehicle.
It was almost as though the people around Hillary were well practiced in how to toss her into the vehicle before the cameras could catch her having a seizure only months before the election.Watch: Infowars Hillary was seen wearing the blue sunglasses during the 9/11 memorial in New York City where she later collapsed from complications stemming from her numerous health issues.Given her lack of fashion concerns she s regularly seen wearing pantsuits everywhere she goes it s unlikely her blue sunglasses were meant as a fashion statement.Epileptic patients often wear Zeiss Z1 blue lenses in particular because they are effective at treating photosensitive epilepsy.
The Z1 lens is highly effective in controlling photoparoxysmal response in a very large number of photosensitive epilepsy patients irrespective of their epilepsy or antiepileptic drug treatment, according to a 2006 studypublished in Epilepsia.
The lens might become a valid resource in the daily activity of any clinician who cares for patients with epilepsy.
Hillary experiences seizures from flashing lights, such as camera flashes at public events, according to sources inside the Secret Service who spoke to Infowars.Hillary Clinton appeared in Chappaqua, NY in their Memorial Day parade as a float with her husband Bill, the former president and rapist.
The former presidential candidate was seen wearing the same bizarre blue-colored sunglasses that she wore on 9-11.Bill & Hillary Clinton & Gov Cuomo at Memorial Day parade pic.twitter.com/rxSaTOxzgg Michael Grabell (@MichaelGrabell) May 29, 2017Here s Hillary again waving to the crowd as though she s already campaigning for 2020.
Bill s just happy to not have to be cooped up in the same house with her for a couple of hours.
.
@HillaryClinton wearing anti-seizure Zeiss Z1 sunglasses at Chappaqua Memorial Day parade.
pic.twitter.com/T0fvT4WN60 Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) May 29, 2017Here s a great shot of the happy couple:They look well.
pic.twitter.com/0I1ETh41ta Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) May 30, 2017The Daily Mail asked Josh Caplan of Vessel News if they could use his photo of Hillary for a story:Hi @joshdcaplan, can the Daily Mail use this image with a credit to you?
Thanks!
MailOnline Pictures (@MailOnline_Pics) May 29, 2017Here is Caplan s hilarious response: Only if you note her anti-seizure sunglasses.
Sick Hillary may run in 2020, so it's important your readers know extent to how unwell she is.
https://t.co/z05G8xTEtf Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) May 29, 2017