America s intelligence community doesn t trust Donald Trump.
At all.
Period.
While both Hillary and Trump are slated to start getting intelligence briefings now that they ve formally accepted their parties nominations, many intelligence officials are very wary of briefing Trump.
In fact, one senior official had nothing good to say about Trump when it comes to giving him those briefings.The official spoke to the Washington Post on the condition of anonymity, but didn t mince words at all: I would refuse.
He s been so uninterested in the truth and so reckless with it when he sees it.
Boom!
That s an indictment of Trump s trustworthiness if there ever was one.The official is understandably concerned with Trump s comments about Vladimir Putin, but in addition to that, he s noticed that Trump doesn t want to actually learn anything about, well, anything.
He s absurdly stuck on what he thinks are his own merits, and nobody s going to dissuade him from his preconceived notions.Not even intelligence officials.The issue is so volatile and so controversial that the reason these officials talked to the Post on the condition of anonymity was just so they could comment on this.
They re that upset with his plea to Russia to hack Hillary s emails, which Trump and his campaign later dismissed as sarcasm and as a call to Russia to turn over any emails they already had.
It s clear the intelligence community isn t buying either of those sorry excuses.Some in the intelligence community are also a little wary of Hillary, but Trump is the one who is the loose cannon he claims Hillary is.
At least Hillary has extensive experience with intelligence briefings that are far more specific than she ll get as a presidential candidate.
Trump has none, and there s absolutely no way, whatsoever, to know how he d handle such information.
It s particularly frightening if he thinks that information is juicy; he d probably put it on Twitter for all to see.The official that won t brief Trump said that it s entirely possible Trump will refuse those briefings, because he already knows all that.
Given that Trump s ego is the size of Russia and growing big enough to make his tiny hands microscopic by comparison, it s not likely he ll refuse them because those briefings will make him feel important.And nothing is more important to Trump than feeling important.Members of the intelligence community aren t the only people worried about Trump getting intelligence briefings.
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid flat-out said he hopes that they ll give Trump fake briefings because he s so untrustworthy.
Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) called on President Obama to deny those briefings to Trump altogether.Considering those briefings happen at the discretion of the sitting president, Obama could very well do it.
Trump is a national security disaster waiting to happen.
It s really no wonder that officials are nervous about giving him even the broadest of briefings.Featured image by Joshua Lott/Getty Images