Last week, CNN hired Donald Trump s disgraced former campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski.
That should have been enough to convince the nation that CNN didn t care at all about balanced coverage.
On Monday, though, they even outdid that, by completely gushing over the GOP frontrunner and calling him mature, because his latest wasn t completely racist.As of the publication of this article, Trump s Twitter account has been uncharacteristically quiet for 10 hours.
Ironically, his last tweet was complaining about CNN..@CNN is all negative when it comes to me.
I don t watch it anymore.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2016He also very characteristically insulted both Hillary Clinton and Elizabeth Warren: Crooked Hillary is wheeling out one of the least productive senators in the U.S. Senate, goofy Elizabeth Warren, who lied on heritage.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2016During those 10 silent hours, though, Trump released a press release and he was interviewed by an NBC reporter.
CNN s panel was very impressed with the interview and with Trump s press release, well, because it didn t call Warren Pocahontas.
He only called her racist because Warren once claimed, thanks to family lore, that she was five percent Native American.Okay, he actually did call her Pocahontas during the interview: We call her Pocahontas for a reason, said Trump.
She said she s 5 percent Native American.
She was unable to prove it.
She used the fact that she was Native American to advance her career.
Elizabeth Warren is a total fraud She made up her heritage, which I think is racist.
I think she s a racist, actually, because what she did was very racist.
To CNN, though, this was a sign of a mature Donald Trump.
He has been calling Elizabeth Warren, Pocahontas, repeatedly, Brianna Keilar said.
This is the more grown up way to put what he is what his allegation is.
Nia-Malika Henderson agreed, saying that it was a kind of mature version of a non-fifth grade version of the Pocahontas what some people think is an insult.
It is unclear if she meant that Trump had graduated to more middle-school attacks like I know you are but what am I.
He is talking about policy, he is saying she is a sellout to the cause, Henderson continued.
I do think we are seeing a slow maturation of Donald Trump.
Again, he sort of is still doing the same thing calling her goofy, nodding to the heritage.
Which is sort of a weird thing, we don t typically talk about people s ethnic backgrounds in presidential politics.
But, this is where he is.
You see this creeping professionalism, professionalization of Trump s campaign, where he personally, when he tweets, it is usually sort of a, frankly, a schoolyard taunt, Ryan Lizza explained.
If you look at the stuff they are sending out in press releases that is done by the campaign, it is a little bit more of a targeted, the way to get at Elizabeth Warren is to argue she is selling out her principles by endorsing Clinton.
Source: Raw StoryHere s the video:Is this Trump benefitting from low expectations or is it something more nefarious?
It s probably a bit of both.
His rhetoric is so divisive and so immature, that anything above the 5th grade level seems adult, but beyond that, Trump is a ratings bonanza and CNN doesn t want to risk being cut off from the billionaire.As for Elizabeth Warren, well, she never claimed that she was Native American to get into Harvard, or anywhere else.
That was made up.