At this point, it is well known that there is no limit to how low Donald Trump will sink.
But Friday night, he walked onto the stage and proved that he has gone completely off the deep end, all without even opening his mouth.Remember his grand WWE style entrance at the Republican National Convention?
Well, that wasn t sh*t compared to his entrance on Friday night at a rally in Miami.
In a sick and twisted parody of Les Miserables, the GOP nominee walked onto the stage with Do You Hear The People Sing?
blaring across the loudspeakers and this backdrop behind him:No, this is not a joke.
No, this is not satire.
Yes, this really happened.
Yes, this is actually real life.Since Trump has decided to embrace the term deplorable as an accurate description himself and his supporters, let s take another look at just who was in Hillary Clinton s now notorious basket of deplorables, shall we?
You know, just to be grossly generalist, you could put half of Trump s supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables.
The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic you name it.
And unfortunately there are people like that.
And he has lifted them up, Clinton said at a rally last week.Despite all the fake outrage from the right that Clinton would have the audacity to call them out for what they are, deplorable, Trump has now decided to go ahead and use this as another dog whistle to his white supremacist followers.
I won t even take the time here to go into the irony of Trump using Les Miserables to bolster his campaign s bigoted message.
Instead, I will just draw attention to the fact that Trump just walked on stage and proudly declared himself to be racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, and Islamaphobic.And without a doubt, his racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic supporters are eating it up.
Which also makes it very obvious that it isn t only Trump who has lost his damn mind.Watch Trump s entrance, here:Trump walks out to Les Miserables song with Les Deplorables sign behind him pic.twitter.com/8FGLKL3TU5 Nick Corasaniti (@NYTnickc) September 16, 2016Featured image via video screen capture