For at least one day, Donald Trump did not say the stupidest thing.
His Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson did, and he got burned by actor Samuel L. Jackson.While delivering remarks about immigrants, Carson actually had the gall to claim that slaves were immigrants, too, as if they voluntarily left their homes in Africa to do back-breaking work in America for free along with getting beaten and whipped and sold like livestock.
That s what America is about, Carson said.
A land of dreams and opportunity.
There were other immigrants who came here in the bottom of slave ships, worked even longer, even harder for less.
But they, too, had a dream that one day their sons, daughters, grandsons, granddaughters, great-granddaughters might pursue prosperity and happiness in this land.
Seriously.
Carson literally thinks slaves were immigrants.His stupidity immediately drew mockery from people across the country on social media.
In particularly, Samuel L. Jackson s response was the best.Jackson s response was short and sweet and included his trademark profanity.
And Carson definitely deserved it.OK!!
Ben Carson .I can t!
Immigrants ?
In the bottom of SLAVE SHIPS??!!
MUTHAFUKKA PLEASE!!
!#dickheadedtom Samuel L. Jackson (@SamuelLJackson) March 6, 2017For centuries prior to and until the Civil War, slaves were kidnapped from their native lands and chained up in the bottom of super crowded slave ships where many would die of disease.
Once they arrived in America they were treated like livestock, sold to other people, and given new names.Carson and many other conservatives would have us believe that black people volunteered to be slaves but that s a complete and utter lie that goes against everything we know about slavery.Ben Carson should be ashamed of himself and his stupidity.
What he said is the same thing racists say to justify the crimes against humanity white people in this country committed.
They think we did black people a favor by enslaving them.
But the fact is that slavery is wrong and has been a stain on our history that will never fade, especially if people like Ben Carson keep spewing this revisionist history bullshit.Featured image via Wikimedia