When you try and fail at everything you do, try and try some more!
Right?
That s how the saying goes, isn t it?
No?Well, it looks as if failed half-term governor of Alaska, failed vice presidential nominee, failed Fox News contributor, and failed reality star Sarah Palin is at it again, and this time around she s in talks for her own reality court show.
Yes, you read that correctly.
Clearly, juris doctor degree or any form of law experience be damned, Palin is gonna tell it like it is in whatever way the words come out of her mouth (to be deciphered later).According to People: The onetime vice presidential candidate has been tapped to preside over a new reality court show that would premiere next year.
She signed a deal in February with Montana-based production company Warm Springs, a source close to the process tells PEOPLE.
It s a production deal, the source explains.
What happens next is she ll meet with stations, make a pilot and sell it.
Warm Springs first approached Palin with the idea in 2015 and has since put together a team that includes the TV executive who found Judge Judy and Judge Joe Brown.
Warm Springs Production had this to say regarding the project, which apparently has been in the works since last year: Palin s telegenic personality, wide appeal and common sense wisdom make her a natural for this kind of format and she was Warm Springs top pick for this project.
Yes, you read that correctly, they said common sense wisdom and a telegenic personality, because screeching incoherent ramblings is clearly what the people want, and who they d like deciding their fate in a courtroom.If the show actually sells it would begin in the fall of 2017.
So, the good news would be if she got the show and Trump were to become president (knocks on wood) she ll be held up in a contract that would make it impossible for her to be part of his cabinet.
Although, they d probably work something out.
Reality stars unite!Just when you thought things couldn t get weirder, this happens.
God save us all.Featured image via Flickr