Just a few days ago, President-elect Donald Trump concerned Americans around the country when he stated that he didn t have to receive regular intelligence briefings more than once per week because he was like, a smart person.
That s right Trump only gets briefings once per week, and his Vice President Mike Pence gets these briefings six times per week.These briefings are so important that President Barack Obama, who has been running the country for eight years, still gets updated on a daily basis.
So having someone as unqualified and stupid as Trump turn these briefings down is really terrifying.On Wednesday, former CIA director Leon Panetta pointed out the consequences of such ignorance when he stated that Trump could be held responsible for any future terror attack if he continued to refuse more regular briefings.
Panetta said that Trump s resistance to knowing what is going on in the world beyond Twitter can t last : I ve seen presidents who have asked questions about whether that intelligence is verifiable, what are the sources for that intelligence, but I have never seen a president who said, I don t want that stuff.'
If we endure another attack and the intelligence officials had indications or information regarding that attack and the president did not want to listen to that, for whatever reason, the responsibility for that attack would fall on the president.
To refresh, Trump s reason for not receiving more frequent briefings which he confidently broadcasted on Fox News over the weekend was that they were repetitive and that he already knew about potential threats.
Trump said in a fit of pure ignorance: You know, I m a smart person.
I don t have to be told the same things in the same words every single day for the next eight years.
Panetta (and the rest of America, pretty much) disagrees.
The ex-CIA chief also advised that Trump should get on board with what the U.S. intelligence agencies are reporting regarding Russia s interference in the U.S. election a claim that Trump has denied and called ridiculous .
Panetta said: When it comes to Russian interference in our last campaign, 17 intelligence agencies agree that Russia is involved in that effort.
I think the President would do well to say we ought to find out what Russia s role was, we ought to investigate it and ensure that it never happens again.
If Trump is to increase the amount of briefings he gets, it s going to be because he s forced to not because he thinks he actually needs them.
Trump is incapable of coming to terms with his excruciatingly obvious shortcomings, and it s going to backfire tremendously on America and its people.Featured image via Brian Blanco/Getty Images