Trump s Attorney General Jeff Sessions is as furious as Trump is over the blocking of an executive order that would have denied Muslims entry into the United States.
Rather than reassess their own morality, the Islamophobic tag team has gone after the judges who have pointed out their plans are unconstitutional.
For Trump, a former reality tv star and current 70-year-old Fox News viewer, the inability to understand the basics of America s justice system is pretty much a given, but his Attorney General seems just as clueless and it s literally his job to understand the law.Highlighting his sheer incompetence to perform the job he was handpicked to do, Sessions (formerly an Alabama senator best known for being a racist) slammed the state of Hawaii and discounted its importance in the United States with a shocking rant during an interview with right-wing conspiracy theorist Mark Levin: We ve got cases moving in the very, very liberal Ninth Circuit, who, they ve been hostile to the order, Sessions said.
We won a case in Virginia recently that was a nicely-written order that just demolished, I thought, all the arguments that some of the other people have been making.
We are confident that the President will prevail on appeal and particularly in the Supreme Court, if not the Ninth Circuit.
So this is a huge matter.
I really am amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific can issue an order that stops the President of the United States from what appears to be clearly his statutory and Constitutional power.
That judge sitting on an island in the Pacific Sessions was so quick to dismiss?
He s a federal judge working in a federal court in the U.S. state of Hawaii.
Hardly a random nobody.As ever, the Trump administration s go-to defense of their badly botched policies is to attack the critics for not letting them do whatever they want.
Trump s so-called travel ban would have overtly banned many Muslims from entering the United States based exclusively on their religion and ethnicity.
The Constitution is pretty clear on that.
The ruling was so straightforward that it was actually confirmed by several other federal judges before Trump announced that he was dropping his stab at it and starting over.And given Sessions track record, it is a bit more odious that he would choose to go after the island in the Pacific populated by a diverse group of Americans.
Racist dog whistles aren t supposed to be this loud.UPDATE: As reporters have pointed out, Sessions smear on Judge Derrick Watson is even more obviously partisan because he actually voted for him.FYI Jeff Sessions voted to confirm Derrick Watson, the federal judge he's now attacking as "a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific".
pic.twitter.com/kfeL4ZoKrP Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 20, 2017Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images