Unfortunately, in this day and age, it doesn t really matter if the story is true or not.
The propaganda driven media, and Americans who hang on their every word (especially the anti-God Left), are so anxious for red meat on one of the top GOP presidential candidates, the story will stick regardless of its validity Here s Trump s Spokesperson, Katrina Pearson on the tabloid story:What's worse?
People who actually believe the trash in tabloids, or the ones who know it's false &spread it anyway?
#stupidity on all levels Katrina Pierson (@KatrinaPierson) March 25, 2016One thing I ve learned from writing about politics for 10 years is that you ll never talk someone out of believing something they really want to believe.
(At least you won t if you re a mediocre writer.
Maybe great writers are different.)
Another thing I ve learned is that there s no way to cover ratf*cking without participating in it.
An accusation is made, it reaches a critical mass of public awareness, then you re forced to choose between ignoring a matter of public interest and spreading the accusation by addressing it.
It s a testament to how far this has spread already that Cruz himself felt obliged to say something.Here s the National Enquirer story alleging that Cruz has had affairs with at least five women.
Wait, let me rephrase: Here s the National Enquirer story alleging that there are claims that private detectives are investigating affairs with at least five women that Cruz has supposedly had.
Two possibilities here:1.
It s all true.
Better men than Cruz have exploited their stature in Washington for sexual conquests.
And the Enquirer s been right before about political sex scandals that no one else would touch.
As every Trump fan on Twitter will eagerly tell you today, they got the John Edwards story right.
Meanwhile, we re still waiting for further details on the 12 mistresses Barack Obama supposedly has.
Or how it could be that Hillary Clinton had six months to live six months ago.
Or why no major mainstream newspaper has yet exposed the fact that Antonin Scalia was assassinated by a hooker hired by the CIA.
Personally, I m more interested in that one than this Cruz business.2.
It s a smear.
As it turns out, the Enquirer is emphatically pro-Trump.
They endorsed him a few weeks ago.
He s been friends with the paper s CEO, David Pecker, for years.
And this wouldn t be the first time they ve done him a solid by publishing a spoonfed attack on one of his opponents, according to Gabriel Sherman.
Supposedly it was Team Trump that handed the Enquirer a story last year about Ben Carson leaving a medical sponge inside a patient.
It s also noteworthy, as Cruz himself mentions in the clip, that Trump advisor turned Trump cheerleader Roger Stone is the only quoted source in the Enquirer piece.Whether or not the target denies the claim is unimportant.
The point is to plant the possibility that it s true in the audience s minds, knowing that some will believe it.
So here we have with the Cruz accusation a publication that s in the tank for Trump, that s allegedly willing to fling sh*t for him, and that s in contact with people renowned for their own willingness and ability to supply sh*t to the media.
Could it be that the accusation is sh*t itself?In a weird twist, Trump s own spokeswoman, Katrina Pierson a former spokeswoman for Cruz is identified in the Enquirer piece as one of the alleged mistresses via a partially distorted photo that s nonetheless clear enough.
Pierson denies any relationship with Cruz:Of course the National Enquirer story is 100% FALSE!!!
I only speak to myself, however.Carry on Katrina Pierson (@KatrinaPierson) March 25, 2016Certain publications were eager to use a supposed threat against Ted Cruz by worldwide hacker group Anonymous as proof that he was guilty as charged.
A threat from a hacker group Anonymous must mean Cruz is guilty right?
Unfortunately, the video they re using is not even from the official Anonymous official account.
How about doing a little homework guys?Here s the video they re using:The publications who are using Billy Anderson s video as proof that Anonymous is threatening Ted Cruz, as a way to prop up Donald Trump, might want to look up a video the OFFICIAL Anonymous account posted about Donald Trump:https://youtu.be/PvCC2qONQFgLastly, before voters fall for a video from Anonymous posted by Billy Anderson (who has only 2 videos on his account) they may want to better understand how Anonymous really feels about the upcoming elections.
Here s a clip from their OFFICIAL account:There s a reason these Anonymous masks were frequently seen at Occupy events and most recently at the anti-Trump rally in Chicago.
They tend to be worn by anarchists.Via: Hot Air