Toxey, a 10-year-old in Hot Springs Village, Arkansas had a birthday party on April 2nd.
He invited 21 of his other classmates.
No one showed up.
After his mother, Angela Andrew, wrote a heartbreaking Facebook post about the party, two days later Arkansas State Troopers came to surprise the boy.
Scared and at the same time trying to figure out why they were here, the boy told local news outlet THV11.
The troopers came bearing gifts and spent the day with the kid.
They showed me all the keys to do the sirens and the horn.
I also got to see the cage with the dog in it, he said.
They had come to give me all that stuff and make up their own birthday party for me.
I cried a little bit because they did that for me.
The boy added it was the first birthday party he can remember people showing up.
Just heartbroken and helpless.
It s the last thing you want to feel for your kid, that no one cared enough to come, his mother told THV11.
On Saturday night, I knew no one was coming, and I posted on Facebook just kind of like an outcry to parents.
Just please if your kids get invited to birthdays take them.
She told the Arkansas State Troopers, I don t even know where to start because saying thank you just doesn t seem good enough!
Saturday, I posted on my personal Facebook page that my son, Toxey, was disappointed that no one came to his birthday party.
I guess an Arkansas State Trooper heard about the post, and what ensued is the stuff dreams are made of.
This afternoon, after Toxey got home from school, a caravan of 5 state troopers pulled up at our house, K-9 included.
Not only did they bring him a birthday cookie cake, but they also brought him all kinds of presents, let him play with Rhino, the K-9, and play with the sirens in their cars.
They ate his cake with him and played basketball with him.
All out of the goodness of their hearts.
They made my sweet baby s day, and his year!!
Thank you from the bottom of my heart.
I will never be able to repay the kindness you showed my family today!!
Come on friends, let s make these guys famous!
They deserve to be recognized for the wonderful people they are!!
According to WHIO, the officers were identified as Cpl David Forthman, with Troopers Terry Sawyer, Kyle Sheldon, Brandon Cook, and Tim Callison.
Featured Image Courtesy of Facebook