Michael Flynn, Trump s embattled former national security adviser, has reportedly caved in and will testify to Robert Mueller and his team about Trump s collusion with Russia.
According to an ABC News special report, Flynn has pleaded guilty to charges that include making false statements to the FBI.
Most importantly, he admitted in his plea that officials on Trump s transition team directed his contacts with Russian officials.Furthermore, according to CNN s David Wright on Twitter, there s more to it than that.
He s reporting that Brian Ross, who reported for ABC News, said that Flynn also says he s prepared to testify that Trump himself ordered him, directed him, to make contact with the Russians, which contradicts all that Donald Trump has said at this point.
.
@BrianRoss reports Michael Flynn is prepared to testify that President Trump as a candidate Donald Trump ordered him, directed him, to make contacts with the Russians, which contradicts all that Donald Trump has said at this point.
David Wright (@DavidWright_CNN) December 1, 2017.
@BrianRoss: As well, we re told that Flynn made the decision to cooperate only in the last 24 hours.
That he is distraught about this decision, but feels he is doing the right thing for his country David Wright (@DavidWright_CNN) December 1, 2017.
@BrianRoss: and that he is facing huge legal bills of more than a million dollars, and he said that finally he had to go and do this for that reason.
He expects to put his house on the market.
He is facing serious financial problems.
David Wright (@DavidWright_CNN) December 1, 2017For his part, Flynn issued a statement saying the following: Actions I acknowledged in court today are wrong, and through my faith in God, I am working to set things right.
My guilty plea and agreement to cooperate with the Special Counsel s Office reflect a decision I made in the best interests of my family and of our country.
I accept full responsibility for my actions.
The White House has said that this is merely more of what got Flynn fired in the first place, and that this will have zero effect on Trump.
Har de har har don t make us laugh too hard.
It hurts.
Merry Christmas to Donald Trump and his entire treasonous family and administration!
We hope you like orange jumpsuits!Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images