Donald Trump is clearly a threat to our national security and our intelligence agents know it.In order to keep America safe, American spies are now withholding intelligence from the White House because they don t want the Russians to know what we know.Throughout the campaign, Trump openly praised Vladimir Putin, who now has a puppet in the White House after helping Trump win the election.And Trump has been friendly with Putin ever since, refusing to believe our intelligence agencies who all agree that Russia hacked our political system and interfered with our election process.Because Trump trusts Russia so much, our intelligence agents do not trust Trump and certainly do not want to give him sensitive information that could end up in Russian hands.
Our Intelligence Community is so worried by the unprecedented problems of the Trump administration not only do senior officials possess troubling ties to the Kremlin, there are nagging questions about basic competence regarding Team Trump that it is beginning to withhold intelligence from a White House which our spies do not trust, NSA analyst Jack R. Schindler reported for the New York Observer.Most frighteningly, a Pentagon official told Schindler that the Kremlin has ears inside the White House Situation Room.That means the Russians are privy to America s most guarded secrets, and the official lamented that There s not much the Russians don t know at this point.
That is absolutely terrifying and demonstrates clearly why Donald Trump and his entire administration need to be removed from office immediately before all is lost.We are talking about critical intel that could prevent nuclear war or give the United States a heads up about what Russia is up to.
If the Russians find out we know something about them because Trump gets the intel and discusses it in the Situation Room or with one of his team members who have cozy dealings with Putin, the United States would lose the advantage.And as Russia prepares for war against Europe, it has never been more important that the White House get the intelligence it needs.
The problem is that Trump is inept and in league with Putin.
So how does the United States military respond to Russian aggression if the so-called Commander-in-Chief is nothing more than Putin s puppet?
By making Putin aware of the information we have, Trump would be putting our troops in danger as the intel becomes useless.
None of this has happened in Washington before, Schindler wrote.
A White House with unsettling links to Moscow wasn t something anybody in the Pentagon or the Intelligence Community even considered a possibility until a few months ago.
Until Team Trump clarifies its strange relationship with the Kremlin, and starts working on its professional honesty, the IC will approach the administration with caution and concern.
It s time for Donald Trump and his administration to be removed from power.
The security and future of the United States is at stake, and as long as Trump is in office the country is less safe than ever before.Photo of Donald Trump by Joe Raedle/Getty Images.
Photo of Vladimir Putin by Thierry Chesnot/Getty Images