Yet another Republican official has come out to say that despite political differences, Hillary Clinton is a hell of a lot better choice than Donald Trump could ever be as President of the United States.
Carlos Gutierrez was the U.S. Commerce Secretary under President George W. Bush.
He is also endorsing Hillary Clinton for the 2016 presidential race.
Gutierrez says of Clinton during an interview on CNN s State of the Union: I think Hillary Clinton is the best for the country.
I m not thinking about it as a Republican.
I m thinking about it as a U.S. citizen.
And that is what Paul Ryan, Mitch McConnell, John McCain, and all the other Republicans need to do.
They need to stop thinking like career politicians and start thinking about what is good for the country.
Donald Trump is not good for the country; in fact, he is downright dangerous for both the nation and the world, and there s no way they don t know this.
Despite said knowledge, though, they insist that Trump is better than Hillary Clinton.
After praising Clinton, Gutierrez continued on to Trump s deficiencies: I think at some point you have to put the party aside and think about what s best for the country.
I don t want to live in a society that Donald Trump will create.
After slamming Trump, Gutierrez went on to say of Clinton: I think she d make a darn good president.
The conversation then turned to David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan, who Trump failed to disavow immediately: He s under Trump s platform.
Is that a trend?
Are we going to see more of that?
Is that the kind of society we re going to become?
Are we going back 50 years?
I don t want to go back 50 years.
Well, Mr. Gutierrz, Trump is a bona fide racist, and there is lots of evidence to demonstrate that fact.
Further, his running mate is a misoygnist and a homophobe.
So, yes, that s the society we d be living in if they were to win.
We just all must make sure that they don t.Watch the video below:On #CNNSOTU w/@jaketapper Fmr.
Bush Official Carlos Gutierrez endorses @HillaryClinton https://t.co/vRi2oz0epU State of the Union (@CNNSotu) August 14, 2016Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images