If Donald Trump goes down, so does House Speaker Paul Ryan.At least that s what Trump supporters are suggesting in an attack on Ryan on Breitbart.com, whose CEO Steve Bannon works on the Trump campaign.An article posted on Breitbart accuses Ryan being a Hillary Clinton supporter who has a pro-Islamic agenda simply because he has been critical of Trump and some of the things he has said and done throughout the campaign.Ryan and Clinton share a progressive, globalist worldview, which is at odds with Trump s America first approach.
Indeed, both Clinton and Ryan have said that they see themselves as representatives not only for American citizens, but also for foreign nationals and foreign interests.
This view that the needs of foreign citizens are equal to the needs of American citizens reflects the belief that Americans are only part of many interest groups that a lawmaker ought to consider when crafting legislation even as he or she negotiates with other countries, which always put their citizens first.
The divide between progressive globalism and nation-state conservatism perhaps helps to illuminate why Ryan has spent months both quietly and loudly undermining his own party s nominee for president, the article continues.Of course, saying that Paul Ryan is in league with Hillary Clinton is absurd.
After all, Ryan may be one of the less openly insane Republicans but he s definitely NOT a progressive.But conservatives are so enraged at Ryan for not blindly pledging allegiance to Trump that they are now calling for his head, which means Paul Ryan is in serious jeopardy of losing the tight House race he is embroiled in.
And even if he wins on November 8th, Ryan faces a revolt from conservatives against him continuing to be Speaker, that is if Republicans keep control of the House.Either way, Paul Ryan is being undermined by Trump and his minions, so it continues to be a mystery why Ryan still hasn t unendorsed him.Conservatives are even questioning Ryan s loyalty to America and to the party.The push to remove Ryan as Speaker is picking up some steam, said Congressman Mark Meadows who also voted for Ryan last year after leading the charge to remove Ryan s predecessor, John Boehner, as Speaker.
Meadows explained that a lot of conservatives now question the loyalty of the Speaker in light of Ryan s treatment of Trump.Frankly, Republicans only have themselves to blame for this.
They gave their far right conservative base a place at the table and now these extremists have taken over the party.
For years, Republicans used fear and hate to gin up their base against Democrats.
Now that anger is being turned against any Republican who refuses to bow down and kiss Trump s ass.Trump has used the Republican playbook against them.
And the result is a once proud party descending into chaos and tearing itself apart from within.Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images