Donald Trump is apparently really angry that he won the election in November because he only wanted more money from NBC and didn t want his fragile ego to get shattered.Longtime Trump friend Howard Stern talked about his buddy on Wednesday and had a lot to say.And Trump is probably going to hate it because the truth hurts.Stern says that he warned Trump against running because if he wins the presidency it will take a toll on his mental health because his ego is so sensitive.
I personally wish that he had never run.
I told him that because I actually think this is something that is going to be detrimental to his mental health He really does want to be loved, he does want people to really love him, that drives him a lot.
I think he has a very sensitive ego.
Indeed, we witness Trump s fragile ego every time he tweets in retaliation of someone criticizing him.
Saturday Night Live and Alec Baldwin have been targeted in particularly because they have satirized him relentlessly.Stern then explained that Trump is desperate to be adored by celebrities and is only lashing out at Hollywood and the press because he loves them so much but the feeling isn t returned.
He s now on this anti-Hollywood kick.
He loves Hollywood.
First of all, he loves the press.
He lives for it.
He loves people in Hollywood.
He only wants hobnob with them.
All of this hatred and stuff directed towards him.
It s not good for him.
It s not good.
There s a reason every president who leaves the office has grey hair.
Finally, Stern revealed that Trump is not happy at all about actually winning the presidency.
As many people claimed during the election, Trump apparently did want to lose to Hillary Clinton.
The only real reason Trump ran for office was to force NBC to pay him more money to come back and host The Apprentice.
And that s why Trump wants voter fraud investigations, so he can be forced out of office without quitting.
He just wanted a couple more bucks out of NBC, and that is why Donald is calling for voter fraud investigations.
He s pissed he won.
He still wants Hillary Clinton to win.
He s so f*cking pissed, he s hoping that he can find some voter fraud and hand it over to Hillary.
Wait, NBC could have prevented this disaster from taking over the White House had they just opened their wallet a little more?
Seriously?!
Well that explains why Trump is angry at NBC all the time.
Clearly, it s not just because of Alec Baldwin and SNL.Here s the audio via YouTube.Howard Stern has known Trump for decades so if he says something about him we should believe him.
Trump s ego is fragile and he is desperate for everyone to love him.
And he did appear to do everything possible to lose the election.
If Trump doesn t want to be president there is nothing wrong with resigning.
However, if Trump really wants to be loved by everyone, he can make that happen by moving our country forward instead of taking it backwards.
He can start by revoking his executive orders and putting people in charge of government agencies who are not racist anti-government extremists.
Removing Steve Bannon would also help.
Instead of tearing down President Obama s legacy, Trump should build upon it.
If he is truly as good at building things as he claims, this shouldn t be hard for him to accomplish.The presidency would be easier and he would get the love he has been seeking.Featured image via Wikimedia