Donald Trump claims to have a huge penis, but he apparently doesn t have the balls to handle tough questions about his racism.When NPR s Cokie Roberts interviewed Trump on Wednesday morning, she challenged his racism and how it is affecting children.
Mr. Trump, there have been incidents of children, of white children, pointing to their darker-skinned classmates and saying, you ll be deported when Donald Trump is president.
There have been incidents of white kids at basketball games holding up signs to teams that have Hispanics on them saying, we re going to build a wall to keep you out.
Are you proud of that?
Is that something that you ve done into the American and social discourse that you re proud of?
The thin-skinned Trump had an immediate problem with the question, calling it nasty and claiming that he has never heard of such instances before now.
Well I think your question s a very nasty question and I m not proud of it because I didn t even hear of it, Trump replied.
And I certainly do not like it at all when I hear about it.
Trump then proceeded to talk over Roberts as she attempted to press him on the fact that his campaign has been nastier than any question she has asked, pointing at his hostility towards Hispanics, Muslims, and even black people at his rallies.Roberts didn t back down though.
As Trump bragged about the beautiful door his Mexican border wall will have, she asked him again to think of the children and give his response to the way kids are picking up his racism and using it against fellow students and schools: But what about the children, Mr. Trump?
What about what the children are hearing from you and how they are responding to it?
Trump responded by claiming that he thinks people are responding very positively, and repeated his slogan that he trying to Make America Great Again, to which Roberts quipped, unless you think American is great already.
And that just made Trump jump into another state of denial.Here s the video via Twitter..@realDonaldTrump reacts to Cokie Roberts question about kids using his name to taunt other kids https://t.co/1gW6cBnjiQ Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) March 9, 2016Once again, a journalist plays stump the Trump and scores big.
Featured image via YouTube