Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) a congressman who at one time cracked jokes about shooting undocumented immigrants has recently called President Barack Obama out for being the most racially-divisive president America s had since slavery.Brooks, who happens to be the chairman of GOP presidential candidate Ted Cruz s Alabama leadership team, made these comments during a radio interview on the Dale Jackson Show on Thursday.
Commenting on the president s State of the Union speech, the Alabama Republican said, There probably has not been a more racially-divisive, economically divisive, president in the White House since we had presidents who supported slavery.
Host Dale Jackson pressed Brooks to clarify what exactly he meant considering that Obama is the nation s first black president and Brooks explanation threw Obama a bone for not being the absolute worst president in the entire history of the United States just within the last 150 years: We did have presidents in the first 80 to 100 years of our country that supported slavery.
You cannot say Barack Obama was worse than them.
But he s probably the worst one since the Civil War and the passages of the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments.
You can listen to the recording of the show below: Later in the show, Jackson commented on how much racial tensions have become a focal point in the political arena, and Brooks accused Obama and Democrats of using race and sex to divide Americans to a level of perfection not heretofore seen.
In true GOP fashion, Brooks chose not to give specific reasons why Obama was racially divisive but his Civil War comment means that he s forgotten quite a bit about history, and how racist some of America s presidents from the last 150 years were.
To say that Obama is more racially divisive than post-Civil War presidents such as Andrew Jackson, Rutherford Hayes, Woodrow Wilson and even George W. Bush is absolutely ridiculous.Brooks should know a bit about being racially divisive himself he s made several racist statements in the past.
For example, there was that time he said Syrian refugees wanted a paid vacation, spread lies about Obama s childhood past in Indonesia, blamed a measles outbreak on illegal aliens, and stated that Obama s immigration policy was based on skin pigmentation.
Featured image via Listerhill Credit Union / Flickr