On Sunday, former CNN host Soledad O Brien appeared on CNN s Reliable Sources, where she claimed that CNN and the mainstream media in general, have helped Donald Trump normalize white supremacy through their coverage of his campaign.
If you look at Hillary Clinton s speech where she basically pointed out that what Donald Trump has done actually quite well has normalized white supremacy.
I think she made a very good argument, almost like a lawyer.
Here are ways in which he has actually worked to normalize conversations that many people find hateful.I ve seen on-air, white supremacists being interviewed because they are Trump delegates, and they do a five-minute segment, the first minute or so talking about what they believe as white supremacists.
So you have normalized that.
O Brien continued to voice her objections to the type of coverage the press has given Trump over the course of his campaign run, saying: Donald Trump will say, Hillary Clinton, she s a bigot.
And it s covered, the journalist part comes in, They trade barbs.
He said she s a bigot and she points out that he might be appealing to racists.
It only becomes he said, she said.
When in actuality, the fact that Donald Trump said she s a bigot without the long laundry list of evidence, which if you looked at Hillary Clinton s speech, she actually did have a lot of really good factual evidence that we would all agree that are things that have happened and do exist.
They are treated as if they are equal.
O Brien is voicing critiques of the media that have come up recently regarding the way media organizations handle their bias towards objectivity.
Similar criticisms of mainstream media companies have arisen in the past over a wide variety of issues most notably, when covering issues relating to climate change.
For example, in an effort to appear objective, news and editorial shows will have a climate scientist come on their program as well as a climate change denier.It isn t at all fair to have a climate change denier be given airtime when they represent an incredibly small fraction of the population of experts.
Especially when you take into consideration that their views are generally considered to be demonstrably false by all available scientific evidence.The same goes for Trump and those involved with his campaign.
They represent an overall tiny segment of population keep in mind that less than 10% of the eligible U.S. population voted for any candidate in the presidential primary and they generally have put out views that are hateful and even bizarre.You can watch the video of the exchange below:Featured image via video screen capture