The Founding Fathers are rolling in their graves.During an interview with Leslie Stahl on 60 Minutes which will air on Sunday evening, Donald Trump once again blamed President Obama for ISIS and vowed to declare war on the terrorist organization since Obama will not.
We re going to declare war against ISIS, Trump said.
We have to wipe out ISIS.
There s just one big problem with that promise.
It s blatantly unconstitutional.For some reason every Republican in America seems to think that President Obama has the power to declare war.
And that means none of the Republicans who proudly carry pocket versions of the Constitution with them have never actually read it.Article I, Section 8 clearly states that ONLY Congress has the power to declare war.
The Congress shall have Power .
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water That s what the Constitution says.But just like Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, who somehow became an attorney and judge, said on Friday when she whined about President Obama not declaring war on ISIS, Trump seems to think the president has that power.It s asinine, and it is something most people learn in middle school.
If he wants to blame anyone for not declaring war he should blame Republicans in Congress.
It s their job and if they are really that scared of ISIS they should do it.Oh, but there s more.President Obama can only do so much to fight ISIS without a declaration of war from the lazy bums who control Congress right now and he s doing it by ordering airstrikes, sending military advisers, gathering intelligence, authorizing drone strikes, and working with our allies.
All of this is combating ISIS to the point where they are close to being forced underground and their recruiting and finances are suffering.And to hear Trump talk, that s all he plans to do as well.
Trump avoided saying he would use troops in a ground war against ISIS but bragged that his intelligence network would somehow be stronger even though the American intelligence apparatus is the strongest it has ever been.
I am going to have very few troops on the ground.
Trump said.
We re going to have unbelievable intelligence, which we need; which, right now, we don t have.
We don t have the people over there.
Trump also seems to think beating ISIS is as easy as surrounding them as if they are a country and he claims he ll get NATO involved.
We re going to have surrounding states and, very importantly, get NATO involved because we support NATO far more than we should, frankly, because you have a lot of countries that aren t doing what they re supposed to be doing.
We have to wipe out ISIS.
First of all, ISIS is present in several countries.
You can t just surround them.
It s more complicated then that.
Beating ISIS isn t going to happen in days, weeks, or even months.
It s going to take a long time.
We are talking about an organization that is scattered around.And no American president can just force NATO to do anything.
And threatening to pull money or support from NATO just because you aren t getting your way isn t how international cooperation works.
That s how spoiled brats act.Mike Pence then chimed in by blaming President Obama and Hillary Clinton for ISIS.
The larger issue here is declining American power in the world.
I truly do believe that history teaches that weakness arouses evil.
And whether it be the horrific attack in France, the inspired attacks here in the United States, the instability in Turkey that led to a coup I think that is all a result of a foreign policy of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama that has led from behind and that has sent an inexact, unclear message, about American resolve.
Here s the video via YouTube.But President Obama did not create the atmosphere in the Middle East that allowed ISIS to rise in the first place.
That responsibility falls at the feet of President Bush, who pushed for war in Iraq and the Republican-controlled Congress that approved it.The unnecessary war with Iraq destabilized the region and created a power vacuum that ISIS took advantage of.
Plus, it was President Bush who signed the status of forces agreement with Iraq that led to the complete withdrawal of troops from Iraq.So not only does Trump fail at American government, he fails at American history, too.Featured image via Screenshot