The leftist teachers and the press are part of the HUGE problem of misinformation about Donald Trump.
They are partly to blame for the violence and hate out there.
Here s a perfect example: A self-described mentor for the girl who attacked Jade urged compassion for the suspended student.
We don t want a mistake during a highly emotional and intense time to affect her long-term future, said Khabral Muhammad, a life coach at Live in Peace, a nonprofit group supporting East Palo Alto youth.
WOODSIDE, Calif. One Peninsula high school student s support of Donald Trump may have made her a target.The Woodside High School student and her family are shocked something like this could happen.
The girl said all of her friends were posting about the election last night, but her post got her beat up.Cellphone video captured the moment a female student attacked sophomore Jade Armenio.
This girl comes up to me and she said, Do you hate Mexicans?
and I was like, no, and she said, You support Trump.
You hate Mexicans.'
Armenio says the girl hit her, threw her to the ground, pulled out her earrings and hair.
She was left with a bloody nose and scratches and bruises.
Before the results came in on election night, Armenio had posted on Instagram that she hoped Trump would win.
I don t think I could name one person on any of my accounts who didn t say their opinion last night, Armenio said.Armenio s parents say they re mortified about what happened.
My husband and I don t put our political views on social media.
Kids still do it.
That s their life.
We tell them don t do it, but even if she does she should never be hit like that, said Gina Armenio.The principle of Woodside High School issued a statement that reads in part the recorded incident was investigated in conjunction with law enforcement and appropriate disciplinary action has been taken.Armenio says she s also now the target of social media hate mail but she s taking it in stride.
In high school if you really care about what every person thinks you re going to get torn apart, Armenio said.Armenio parents say they are keeping her out of school until they know she ll be safe.If only this poor pro-Trump child had just worn #safetypins perhaps this wouldn't have happened pic.twitter.com/w07rO9OOo2 ia?GiveMeTears?
(@nia4_trump) November 12, 2016