America s so-called president held a rally in Melbourne, Florida, after just a few weeks into the job.
Donald Trump spoke of the mess he has inherited (LOL) and of course, he lashed out at the media.
This was Donald s campaign rally for 2020 and he s already been on vacation three times since taking the oath of office.
His guest speakers were laughable, with one saying he s kept all of his campaign promises, including draining the swamp.
Trump promised to achieve his agenda despite the lies, misrepresentations and false stories thrown at him by the media.
He said that without offering proof and the crowd ate it up.
I want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news, Trump said.
The crowd, of course, erupted in cheers.
The dishonest media, which has published one false story after another with no sources, even though they pretend they have them they make them up in many cases, the scandal-plagued amateur president said.
They just don t want to report the truth.
Many of our greatest presidents fought with the media and called them out, Trump said while mentioning Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, according to The Hill.
When the media lies to people, I will never, ever, let them get away with it.
I will do whatever I can that they don t get away with it, Trump said.
They have their own agenda and their agenda is not your agenda.
But despite all their lies, misrepresentations and false stories they could not defeat us in the primaries or general election and we ll continue to expose them as what they are and most importantly we ll continue to win, win, win, Trump continued.
Do you think that one media group back there, that one network, will show this crowd?
Not one, not one, Trump declared.
Meanwhile, at that very moment, CNN was panning the crowd.
I ve ordered the construction of a Great Border Wall that will start very shortly, Trump said at the adulation rally.
The problem is, though, that Trump did not tell his supporters that we, the taxpayers, will be footing the bill, not Mexico.
We are going to drain the swamp in Washington, DC, he said.
The crowd chanted Drain the swamp, Drain the swamp!
Trump s gullible supporters did this after he already filled the swamp up with terrifying creatures.On Air Force One, Trump told reporters, Life is a campaign.
Making our country great again is a campaign.
For me, it s a campaign.
To make America great again is absolutely a campaign.
It s not easy, especially when we re also fighting the press.
According to the Melbourne Police, 9,000 people attended the campaign rally for the man who has already been elected.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.