You can believe that if this incident with Iran kidnapping our sailors had happened under a Republican president, you would be hearing 24/7 about this.
I digress, this wouldn t have happened if we had a president who had the least bit of a backbone.
The entire incident is simply unbelievable!
Here s a little background into the female sailor who is seen in the photos wearing a headscarf:This photograph violates international law.
Article 13 of the Geneva Convention (III), governing the treatment of prisoners of war, requires Iran to protect prisoners against insults and public curiosity.
This photograph including a female sailor apparently forced to wear a headscarf is a quintessential example of public curiosity and would be interpreted as insulting throughout the Muslim world.
(And if you don t think Iran is in a state of armed conflict against the United States, tell that to the families of hundreds of American soldiers who ve lost their lives to Iranians and Iranian-backed terrorists.
)Female Sailor in the corner in this picture:The sight of members of the American military, disarmed and under Iranian control, is of enormous propaganda value in Iran s ongoing war against the United States.
To its allies in the Middle East, the photo demonstrates Iran s strength how many jihadist countries have had this many American servicemembers under their power?
and it demonstrates American weakness.Then there s this: This time, the Americans were cooperative in proving their innocence, and they quickly accepted their faults without resistance, the analyst, Hamidreza Taraghi, said in a phone interview.
The Marines apologized for having strayed into Iranian waters.
Never fear, John Kerry made friends with the Iranians, and that made all the difference: Also playing a role was the strong relationship that has developed between Mr. Kerry and the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, during negotiations on the nuclear deal, Mr. Taraghi said.John Kerry and Zarif were on the phone during the past hours, and this helped the problem to be resolved quickly due to their direct contact, he said.Nations that take illegal propaganda photos, crow about their seizure of American boats, confiscate part of their equipment, and then point to our allegedly admitted faults aren t easing tensions, they re flexing their muscles.
I m glad our sailors and boats are back in American hands minus, apparently, their GPS equipment but once again Iran has thumbed its nose at the U.S., demonstrating that it does what it wants whether it s testing missiles, launching rockets near U.S. warships, or taking, questioning, and photographing American sailors who (allegedly) stray into Iranian waters.Read more at: National Review