As Donald Trump continues to hold steady at number one and win primary after primary, the GOP establishment is getting really nervous that he may actually be their 2016 candidate.
They are so scared that a group of high-ranking Republican governors held an emergency conference call to discuss it on Monday.Politico reported: Trump s march to the nomination has set off a wave of anxiety across the Republican Party establishment as top officials weigh whether to endorse him or denounce him as anathema to the party s values.
Reflecting that angst, on Monday morning, New Mexico Gov.
Susana Martinez and Wisconsin Gov.
Scott Walker, the heads of the Republican Governors Association, convened fellow governors for an unusual conference call to discuss how the primary was unfolding and Trump was a central topic of conversation.
Apparently during the conference call, Kentucky Gov.
Matt Bevin asked New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie why he was supporting Trump.
Christie, who has a long history of slamming Trump, claimed that he know believes Donald is the best man for the job.
This is nonsense, of course; he just wanted to share some of Trump s limelight because like Trump, he is an opportunist and a liar.The real estate mogul has been wreaking havoc on the GOP since he entered the race.
The party, which after the 2012 presidential race, decided that they needed an image makeover saw Trump destroy any chances of ever winning over minority voters.
And in addition to his hatred for everyone who is not white, rich, or poorly educated, he has thumbed his nose at the establishment over and over.
The reason many people think he has such an appeal with the GOP base (other than their insane racism and bigotry) is because he is not a real politician.
This belief that he is not a politician is more proof of how ignorant the Republican voter base really is.
Trump says whatever he thinks will make people vote for him and has a long record of flip-flopping like Mitt Romney in 2012, but on steroids.Former Republican National Committee chairman and former Florida senator, Mel Martinez has said that Trump is increasingly unpalatable, and said a majority of the party would resist him as the 2016 presidential candidate: How that manifests itself I don t know, but I believe there is a sense by many, myself included, that he just cannot be the nominee, he said.
So a convention scenario could begin to develop.
While the GOP isn t sure Trump should be their candidate, Americans have made it very clear that they have no interest in seeing him in the White House.
Even the conservative site Red State recently published an article titled, A Vote For Trump is a Vote For Hillary Clinton: Why Trump Is A Sure Loser.
Get your popcorn ready, folks.
This infighting is going to make the Republican National Convention very interesting this summer, and it s looking better and better for Democrats in the Fall.
Featured image via Addicting Info archives