George Soros is trying his best to destroy America!
He is ramping up his efforts now!
James Woods said it best when he tweeted that Soros would be happy with what happened in Charlottesville: Attorney General Jeff Sessions released a statement that there would be an investigation into what happened in Charlottesville.
We re hoping Sessions digs deep!
If AG Jeff Sessions doesn t dig deep ASAP to uncover Soros involvement in Antifa and BLM, then this Soros-funded war will continue.
We need a fighter to win the battle against this evil Hungarian globalist!Liberal billionaire George Soros s advocacy arm is ramping up its lobbying efforts this year, disclosure forms show.SOROS WANTS OPEN BORDERS AND GLOBALISM:The amount Soros spent on lobbying shot up to $11 million in 2013, a drastic increase from the $3.4 million the group had spent in 2012.
The uptick could be attributed to the group s push for comprehensive immigration reform during this time.The Open Society Policy Center, a D.C.-based nonprofit that focuses on advocacy efforts and is a separate entity from the Soros grant making Open Society Foundations, has spent nearly as much on lobbying in the first half of 2017 as the group did in the entirety of 2016.The Open Society Policy Center reported spending $4.6 million in the first and second quarters, which runs from Jan. 1 to June 30, according its disclosure forms filed to the House of Representatives and the Senate.THREE IN-HOUSE LOBBYISTS?
The group has three in-house lobbyists who lobby the U.S. Senate, House of Representatives, National Security Council, the Department of Defense, and the Department of State.Soros even tried to influence the decision of the Supreme court on immigration according to The Daily Caller:Open Society Foundations, Hungarian-born billionaire George Soros stated vehicle for progressive social change, orchestrated a well-funded attempt to secure a desired outcome in a U.S. Supreme Court case on illegal immigration enforcement, according to a newly discovered memo between the organization s top U.S. officials and board members.Soros drastically extended the policy scope of his lobbying efforts as the year progressed, including to issues that have been seen as a direct strike against the Hungarian-born billionaire.IF HUNGARY (SOROS HOME COUNTRY) CAN TRY AND BAN HIS GOV T INTERFERENCE, WHY CAN T WE?From January to March, Soros s group lobbied on three issues.
From April to June, the group lobbied 17 different issues, including the Bill on Foreign Funded Organizations in Hungary (LexNGo), Hungary s crack down on foreign-funded organizations in the country.Hungary s parliament approved the law that targets foreign-funded organizations in June, which they have said can threaten the country s political and economic interests and interfere with the functioning of its institutions, according to text of the law.Although the law does not mention Soros by name, politicians in Hungary previously said they wanted to sweep out organizations tied to Soros.Soros s Open Society Foundations has given money to a number of prominent NGOs in Hungary.
The group has said that the country s bill seeks to suppress democratic voices in Hungary.
The lobbyists also worked on issues such as the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2017 and the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2018, among others.Soros s lobbying efforts have quietly skyrocketed in recent years.The policy center reported spending $19,120,000 on lobbying for policy and legislative efforts with Congress and government agencies between 2002 and 2012, which averages out to $1.9 million per year.WE HAD A PUPPET MASTER PULLING THE STRINGS IN THE WHITE HOUSE FOR 8 YEARS!
IT S TIME FOR THIS TO STOP!
READ MORE: WFB