The NYP reported that the players whom Bob McNair employs were not happy about his comments at a recent NFL owners meeting.McNair sparked the outrage by saying, We can t have the inmates running the prison, during an NFL owners meeting one day after he and 10 other NFL representatives met with current and former players to discuss the issues behind the national anthem protests.
McNair has apologized for the racially insensitive analogy, but count outspoken Seahawks star Richard Sherman who will play against the Texans this weekend among those who don t believe the apology was sincere.The Texans nearly staged a team-wide walkout Friday, a few hours after McNair apologized for comparing NFL players to inmates in a prison, ESPN reported.Texans players wanted to walkout today in response to owner Bob McNair s comments, per @sarahbarshop.
Had to be persuaded to stay.
Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 27, 2017Houston s best offensive player, wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins, skipped practice for personal reasons, but ESPN later confirmed it was in response to McNair s comments.
Head coach Bill O Brien said he is 100 percent with his players.Texans offensive lineman Duane Brown said McNair s comments sickened him and were horrible, according to the Houston Chronicle.
Brown also said he wasn t surprised by the comments, and that Houston players are not done dealing with the issue.Brown s wife also spoke out on the issue.
My husband has put his BODY & MIND on the line for your team for 10 YRS & to you he is an inmate, Devi Brown wrote.
You owe these players RESPECT & support.
ESPN reported the Texans will do something before the game Sunday but have not decided what yet.Texans rookie Treston Decoud tweeted, I don t believe he is the only owner that feel that way smh.
NFL players may not be happy with the Houston Texan team owner s choice of words when he told other team owners in a private meeting that, We can t have the inmates running the prison , but how far off base was Texan s owner Bob McNair when he used the commonly used phrase?While the Houston Texans may only have 13 players who ve been arrested for crimes, they re not exactly a group of choir boys either.
Here are just a few examples of NFL teams and the number of players who ve been arrested on those teams since 2000.
Keep in mind that each NFL team has 53 players.Minnesota Vikings Number of arrests: 49 Perhaps the most notable of the Vikings arrests was the Love Boat scandal, during which Fred Smoot, Daunte Culpepper, Bryant McKinnie and Moe Williams were all arrested.
Adrian Peterson s child abuse case along with 18 DUI cases were also among the Vikings arrests over the years.Denver Broncos Number of arrests: 47 Brandon Marshall accounted for four of these arrests while he was with the team, including two instances of domestic violence and one domestic dispute.
The Broncos have had 12 instances of domestic violence since 2000, as well as 12 DUIsCincinnati Bengals Number of arrests: 44 The Bengals currently employ Adam Jones, who has the most arrests of any NFL player since 2000 (10) and was even arrested earlier this year for poking a security guard in the eye.
They also employed the player with the third most arrests since 2000, Chris Henry (6), who passed away in 2009.
Overall, the Bengals have had nine assaults, nine DUIs and six domestic violence cases over the past 17 years.Tennessee Titans Number of arrests: 36 Kenny Britt, who has the second-most individual arrests since 2000 (seven times), was arrested six times within a span of two years with Tennessee.
In total, the Titans have had 10 DUIs, four assaults and four domestic violence cases over that span.Tampa Bay Buccaneers Number of arrests: 36 The Buccaneers have had 11 DUIs since 2000, as well as four drug charges and four instances of domestic violence.
Former Patriots cornerback Aqib Talib was arrested on gun and assault charges while with Tampa Bay.Jacksonville Jaguars Number of arrests: 35 The Jaguars have had four gun charges and five drug charges to go with their seven DUIs.
Among those drug charges was wide receiver Matt Jones, who was spotted cutting up cocaine in his car by police in 2008.Cleveland Browns Number of arrests: 33 Johnny Manziel recently made the list after he was accused of domestic violence in early 2016.
Meanwhile, Dont Stallworth was charged with a DUI manslaughter in 2009, while Ausar Walcott was charged with attempted murder in 2013.
The Browns also have six drug charges and five gun charges.Chicago Bears Number of arrests: 32 The Bears have had seven assaults and 10 DUIs since 2000.
Among those arrests was Lance Briggs, who crashed his Lamborghini into a pole and left the scene of the accident a crime that he pled guilty to.Kansas City Chiefs Number of arrests: 32 The Chiefs employed Jovan Belcher, who fatally shot his girlfriend 10 times before going to the team s facility and shooting himself in the head with a gun.
They also employed Larry Johnson, who was arrested four times including twice for domestic disputes.
Kansas City has 10 DUI cases and four cases of theft/burglary since 2000.Miami Dolphins Number of arrests: 31 The Dolphins have seven domestic violence cases and seven assault and battery cases to go with their eight DUI arrests.
They also had Ricky Williams, who was charged with reckless driving after going 126 mph on the highway once.Baltimore Ravens Number of arrests: 27 The Ravens have several high-profile arrests since 2000, including Ray Rice s domestic violence case and Ray Lewis murder charge.
They also had Terrence Cody, who was indicted on charges of animal cruelty after one of his dogs died.
Cody also illegally owned an alligator.
Seattle Seahawks Number of arrests: 27 Lofa Tatupu, who was arrested for a DUI during which he had a .155 blood alcohol content, was one of 11 Seahawks players to be charged with a DUI.
Seattle has also had six domestic violence instances over that span.Carolina Panthers Number of arrests: 22 Panthers players have had six DUIs, four assaults, three gun charges, three domestic violence cases and three drug cases since 2000.
One of the more prominent cases involved defensive end Greg Hardy, who threw his victim onto a couch covered in guns among other instances of domestic violence.Black Lives Matter posterchild for disrespecting our flag, former 49 ers QB Colin Kaepernick s team is in the middle of the pack for team members with most criminal arrests and convictions:San Francisco 49ers Number of arrests: 25 The 49ers have 13 DUI charges since 2000 along with three domestic violence cases.
One of those cases involved former fullback Bruce Miller, who later was charged with assault after allegedly assaulting his 70-year-old father in a hotel in San FranciscoWhile the Houston Texans team doesn t land in the top of the list for players with most criminal convictions on their team, they certainly have their fair share.
Sadly, only having 13 arrests on their team makes them look good compared to the other teams with more arrests for criminal activity.
Houston Texans Number of arrests: 13 The Texans were founded in 2002, and have overall been pretty good about staying out of trouble compared to the rest of the league.
Houston has four DUI charges, including one to Jacoby Jones that he pleaded guilty to.Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman sounded off on McNair s comments, as he attempted to throw gasoline on the fire:I can appreciate ppl being candid.
Don t apologize!
You meant what you said.
Showing true colors allows ppl to see you for who you are.
Richard Sherman (@RSherman_25) October 27, 2017Sherman isn t shy about his hate for cops.
His big mouth and unnecessary disrespect for a law-enforcement officer didn t end up well for him, as he was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct towards a police officer in 2014.Empire Sports Sherman is known for his cockiness on the field and a vocabulary that can only be described as trash-talk.
His passion on the field often carries over to the after-game interviews, and he is the type of player Seahawks fans either love or love to hate.Despite his reputation for attitude within the NFL, witnesses to Sherman s altercation with a Seattle police officer were shocked by his behavior.
It was like he just picked off Peyton in the Super Bowl, and ran it back for a touchdown or something.
His cockiness was at an all-time high!
Said Curt Johnson, a bystander to the incident.Sherman s problems arose when a police officer witnessed him jaywalking, and gave him a warning not to do it again.
The officer later admitted that he wasn t so much worried about the jaywalking law in Seattle, but the fact that it was a busy street and Sherman could have been hurt, as several pedestrians have been hit by cars in the same area over the last few months.
He asked me if I knew who he was, and I said, of course, I m a huge fan.
Said Patrolman Mike Stephens.
[Sherman] then continued to say, Then you know that I own [expletive] Seattle, and any [expletive] street I want to cross I can, no matter where I decide to [expletive] cross it.
Stephens apparently tried to apologize, and explain to Sherman that he was just doing his job and that Sherman s celebrity status in the city did not give him the right to curse anyone.
He told me that I was a terrible police officer, and said I should just go eat some [expletive] donuts.
Said Officer Stephens.
He went off on me about how he was doing better in life than I was, and said that I shouldn t even watch a Seattle game again because I didn t deserve to witness the greatness that was him on a football field.
Sherman was arrested and charged with jaywalking and disorderly conduct towards a police officer in the course of his duty.