Melania Trump plagiarized part of her Republican National Convention speech.
So, Republicans, whose unofficial theme this year seems to be I know you are, but what am I?
swung and missed a shot at Hillary Clinton for supposedly plagiarizing her acceptance speech on Thursday night.Unlike with Trump, who plagiarized a full two paragraphs of Michelle Obama s speech while Clinton is accused of stealing a literary reference or really, a literary allusion.At one point in her speech, Clinton appeared to reference the historian and political scientist, Alexis de Tocqueville, who published, Democracy in America, back in the mid 19th Century.
Here was the line in question: But here s the sad truth: There is no other Donald Trump this is it, Clinton said in Philadelphia.
And in the end, it comes down to what Donald Trump doesn t get: that America is great because America is good.
So enough with the bigotry and the bombast.
Donald Trump s not offering real change.
He s offering empty promises.
The line is similar to one that s often attributed to de Tocqueville: America is great because she is good.
The chief strategist, Sean Spicer, of the Republican National Convention was quick to jump on that misspelling and all:#plagarism alert @hillaryclinton at @DemConvention America is great bc America is good, de Tocqueville America is great bc she is good Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) July 29, 2016What s next, accusing the DNC of plagarism (sic) for playing the National Anthem?Twitter s response was kind of brutal: @seanspicer @hillaryclinton @DemConvention Haha are you that fucking stupid?
Adam Peck (@AdamReports) July 29, 2016@seanspicer @HillaryClinton @DemConvention She also plagiarized God Bless America.
Go home, dude.
Rand Duren (@RandDuren) July 29, 2016 LOL @seanspicer tries so hard to be an attack dog, but is just a little puppy.There was no plagiarism tonight buddy.
That was last week ;-) vancitydan (@vancitydan) July 29, 2016@seanspicer haha still trying to get over Melania s plagiarism?
Paulina Mar a (@paulinamcolon) July 29, 2016 @seanspicer I m embarrassed for you Slimmy Drama (@SlimmyDrama) July 29, 2016The real irony here is that de Tocqueville never actually wrote those words.
Spicer might know that if he had actually read the book.
Similar lines, though, have been used in political speeches for decades.Featured image via Alex Wong at Getty Images