Texas Lt. Gov.
Dan Patrick is known for making inflammatory comments after national tragedies in public.
He is the guy who tweeted a picture with a bible verse that reads, Do not be deceived.
God cannot be mocked.
A man reaps what he sows, right after the Orlando massacre.So, it shouldn t be too surprising that Patrick s post-Dallas shooting commentary is a giant pile of racist bullsh*t. Last Thursday during an interview on Fox News (of course), Patrick claimed that the protestors who were present at the protest during the shooting were hypocrites for running away while shots were being fired.
All those protesters last night, they ran the other way, expecting the men and women in blue to turn around and protect them.
What hypocrites.
I understand the First Amendment.
I understand freedom of speech, and I defend it.
It is in our Constitution and is in our soul, but you can t go out on social media and mainstream media and everywhere else and say that the police are racist or police are hateful or the police are killers.
Calling Black Lives Matter protesters hypocrites for running away when shots are being fired into a crowd shots that hit both protestors and police is just plain ugly.
From all accounts, the protestors in Dallas and the local law enforcement were working together to make sure that the event was safe.
Patrick went on to rant: I do blame people on social media, with their hatred towards police.
I do blame, I saw Jesse Jackson I think it was on Fox the other night calling police racist without any facts.
I do blame former Black Lives Matters protests.
Last night was peaceful, but others have not been, Patrick went on to say.Yeah seriously, Patrick said that.
Black Lives Matter is to blame for the actions of one individual who had no previous role in the movement.As far as Patrick s insistence on shutting up about the wholesale slaughter of black lives on social media goes it s never going to happen.
Millions of people are standing up and saying enough is enough.
Black lives matter.
There are racist police officers out there.
Initialized racism must end.You can watch the interview below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JNRun_af0h0Featured image from video screenshot