A group of desperate republicans which includes Mitt Romney, William Kristol, Erick Erickson, Mike Murphy, Stuart Stevens and Rick Wilson, among others, is desperately trying to find someone to present a third party challenge to Donald Trump.According to the Washington Post, the group of more than a dozen republicans is commissioning private polling, lining up major funding sources and courting potential contenders.
Among those contacted by the group was billionaire Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks and reality TV star.Cuban told the Washington Post that the group thought he would make a good candidate, based on his loud persona, and ability to connect with voters.
As Addicting Info reports here, back in December during an appearance on The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore, the NBA team owner had nothing good to say about republican frontrunner Donald Trump.Cuban said: There s so much more to come (from Trump).
Because they re not playing for real yet.
There s nothing at stake yet.
This is all just chit chat.
He s just warming up the audience.
He s like that guy who is going into a bar and he ll say whatever it will take to get laid.
Only in this case, he s not trying to f*ck some girl, he s trying to f*ck the country.
While Cuban has also criticized Donald Trump s anti-Muslim fearmongering, the billionaire has come under fire for racist remarks of his own.While speaking at a conference in Nashville in 2014, Cuban said: I know I m prejudiced, and I know I m bigoted in a lot of different ways.
If I see a black kid in a hoodie on my side of the street, I ll move to the other side of the street.
When he was asked about keeping racism out of the NBA, Cuban responded by saying, You don t. There s no law against stupid.
I m the one guy who says don t force the stupid people to be quiet.
I want to know who the morons are.
In other words, let racists be racists.According to the Washington Post Cuban says it s unlikely he ll launch a third party bid to challenge Trump because he doesn t believe there is enough time to mount a successful campaign.The group admits there is very little time left to achieve the goal, but they aren t ready to give up yet.As Addicting Info reported here, Romney was at first considered to be a possible third party candidate.
Although he decided not to enter the race himself, he is now helping in the effort to find someone who will.According to the Washington Post, Nebraska Senator Ben Sasse is next on the list of possible recruits.Featured image via Brian Solis via Flickr