It won t lead to any solution.
It s a kind of European Union dictatorship towards smaller members An extra 1 billion ( 733 million) has been pledged by EU leaders to help tackle the refugee crisis following an emergency summit in Brussels.It comes as Slovakia says it will go to court to challenge compulsory quotas for relocating 120,000 refugees approved by European Union ministers.Britain has not signed up to the plans, instead opting for a relocation scheme to take 20,000 Syrian refugees from countries in the Middle East over the next five years.
Via: itvFour of the 28 EU countries voted against the quota system on Tuesday, with Finland abstaining.
Slovakia, one of the loudest critics of the decision, which was advocated strongly by Germany and France, announced it would challenge it in court.
We will go in two directions: first one, we will file a charge at the court in Luxembourg secondly, we will not implement the (decision) of the interior ministers, the Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico told reporters on Wednesday, before leaving for an EU leaders summit in Brussels.
We have been refusing this nonsense from the beginning, and as a sovereign country we have the right to sue, he added, saying his country would not submit to the quota as long as he leads it.Slovakia, which has a population of 5.4 million, objects to the relocation of 120,000 migrants and refugees from Italy and Greece throughout the EU.
It currently has only a small migrant community and the public opinion is against accepting Muslim asylum seekers, who make up the majority of those looking to enter Europe this year.Fico called the decision passed by a rare vote, rather than the accepted unanimous vote by all EU member states, a dictate of the majority and said the plan fails to address the core issues of the refugee crisis.Meanwhile, Jurgen Elsaesser, editor-in-chief of the German-based magazine Compact, told RT that the way the quota vote took place, threatens European unity, while it was also a total nonsense in practical terms.
It won t lead to any solution.
It s a kind of European Union dictatorship towards smaller members, he said, speaking to RT.
Brussels tries to press them into accepting more refugees, but the people and the governments of these countries are not willing to do so.
This will become a serious rift within the European Union.
Via: RT