Donald Trump wanted the press to tour his brand new hotel in Washington D.C., so they did and discovered that he is truly a giant hypocrite.The Republican nominee was hoping to use the press corps as his own personal team of promoters but photographers were the only ones allowed to follow Trump inside the building.
And that many cameras came in mighty handy as they captured how big of a liar Trump is when he claims he will make America great again.
American Bridge used their exploration time to find out how Trump furnishes the rooms in his hotel and the answer is definitely not with the help of workers in the United States.As it turns out, the hotel that is supposed to represent the United States capitol around the world is filled with products made in China and the Philippines among multiple other countries.Here s a bunch of photos via Twitter showing how Trump relies heavily on cheap foreign labor.A very classy gold lamp in the new DC Trump Hotel, which just happens to have been made in China, not in the USA.
pic.twitter.com/wZAloIuNEu American Bridge (@American_Bridge) September 16, 2016 This dresser was made in the Philippines, far and away from the USA.
pic.twitter.com/MtU7mx9dfc American Bridge (@American_Bridge) September 16, 2016The king-sized beds inside the suites at the new DC Trump Hotel were you guessed it not made in the USA.
pic.twitter.com/rH3FBLmjJy American Bridge (@American_Bridge) September 16, 2016 Even these Trump Hotel branded umbrellas are made in China, not here in the U.S.. pic.twitter.com/aw4q5nj8H8 American Bridge (@American_Bridge) September 16, 2016Inside the Trump Hotel in Washington, DC: bedding made in China, not the USA.
pic.twitter.com/lmI5MpBKm4 American Bridge (@American_Bridge) September 16, 2016Did you catch all of that, Trump supporters?
Your hero claims that he is going to make America great but he can t even be bothered to support American workers by furnishing his hotels with American-made products.And if your blood is not boiling from that revelation, just wait until you read about what Washington Post reporter David Fahrenthold discovered while experiencing what it is like to be a guest in Trump s hotel.Even as Donald Trump vilifies Muslims all over the world and describes Islam as a violent threat to the United States, he actually offers guests a Quran if they want one complete with a prayer rug and a compass directing them towards Mecca.
According to Fahrenthold, it was incredibly easy.
Minutes after my call to housekeeping, a pleasant woman arrived with a copy of The Glorious Qur an in Arabic and English, along with a brown prayer rug and a compass pointing in the direction of al Kabaa in Mecca, he wrote.When a presidential candidate is using foreign labor to make his products at will while claiming that he will make America great that a problem because it means Trump is part of the problem that many of his own supporters are complaining about, the fact that American companies are moving jobs overseas and giving them to foreigners.
If Trump really cared about American workers, he would employ them to make his products, not the Chinese.And while Americans have freedom of religion in this country and can practice whatever religion they want, Trump s hotel offering the Quran is also damaging to his own image because he has worked hard to convince his supporters that Islam is an evil religion.
If Islam is so evil, why offer the Quran to any hotel guest who requests one?Clearly, Trump s supporters are too blind to see that their candidate is a con artist who is duping them.Featured Image: Getty Images