Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren once again took aim at Donald Trump and took no prisoners as she hilariously mocked the possibility of a Trump ticket with her one-time rival Scott Brown as his running mate.Warren began her speech at the New Hampshire Democratic Convention on Saturday by apologizing to the state for beating Brown in her home state because she never expected him to become New Hampshire s problem.
And from there, Warren proceeded to lampoon the idea of Brown as Trump s vice-presidential nominee.
I hear that Donald Trump is floating Scott Brown as a possible running mate.
And I thought, Oh, so Donald Trump really does have a plan to help the unemployed.'
The crowd erupted in laughter as Warren continued landing punches with more jokes.
Scott Brown for vice-president makes a certain kind of sense.
I mean that.
I think of all the expert advice he can offer Donald Trump.
Making up lies about me and my family.
Saying weird stuff about his beautiful daughter.
And let s face it, nobody knows more about losing to a girl than Scott Brown.
Think of it as the perfect reality TV show: Celebrity Apprentice meets The Biggest Loser.
Warren then set the jokes aside and took a more serious tone as she focused all of her fire on the Republican nominee.
Every day we learn more about him, and every day it becomes clearer that he is just a small, insecure money-grubber who doesn t care about anyone or anything that doesn t have the Trump name splashed all over it.
Every day it becomes clearer that he is a thin-skinned, racist, sexist bully.
Every day it becomes clearer that he will never be president of the United States.
Then she likened Trump s scam university to a used car dealership, but pointed out that the comparison isn t really fair to used car dealerships.
Here is a man who runs a business to profit off other people s pain, she continued before slamming Trump for whining about the judge overseeing the lawsuit against him.
Poor little Donald is shaking in his high-priced Italian loafers, begging the court to protect him, she quipped.
Are you scared, Donald?
You should be.
Here s the full speech via YouTube:Donald Trump just got his ass handed to him by Elizabeth Warren.
And if he really is thinking about picking Scott Brown as his running mate he should probably think again since it s clear such a pairing would be lampooned in the same way for months leading up to the election in November.
And that s not a good thing for the GOP.
It would be a disaster.
Just like it would be a disaster for this nation if Trump somehow wins the election.Featured Image: Screenshot