GOP presidential candidate John Kasich would like us to believe that he is the non-bigoted alternative to the likes of extremists like Donald Trump and Ted Cruz.
However, whenever he opens his mouth on certain issues specifically those of the LGBTQ variety we see more and more that nothing could be further from the truth.
Case in point a situation Kasich recently found himself in when he was interviewed at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco by Kelly Bryan.
When Bryan asked Kasich if he believed gayness is something folks are born with, the candidate attempted to dodge the question by saying, I m not going to get into the analysis of this or that.
Bryan wasn t letting Kasich off that easily, though.
He pressed, It s not analysis.Are people born gay?
Kasich answered uncomfortably: Probably?
I don t know how it all works.
Are they?
In all probability, they are.
Bryan then pressed Kasich on the issue of LGBTQ rights, saying, Don t we deserve free, regular rights like everyone else Kasich insisted that LGBTQ people do have free, regular rights, when, of course, nothing could be further from the truth on that point: You have free regular rights.
We re not denying you any rights.
I m not, in Ohio.
I m not out to discriminate against you..
I think you should have as good a life as anybody else.
If Kasich truly believed this, he would include LGBTQ people in the hate crimes statutes in his state of Ohio, of which he is governor.
Further, he would not be supporting a party platform that opposes marriage equality and other rights for LGBTQ people.
The only thing Kasich did right during this exchange is to vaguely insinuate that he does not support anti-trans bathroom bills like North Carolina s HB2.
On that front, Kasich said: I think we should just try to, like, take a chill pill, relax, and try to get along with one another a little bit better instead of trying to write some law to solve a problem that doesn t frankly exist in big enough numbers to justify more lawmaking.
Well, that s something, at least.
But then, when asked about marriage equality, Kasich feigned ignorance.
Bryan said of the issue as far as the official GOP platform goes: Republicans don t believe in marriage equality.
It s your platform.
Kasich shot back, Is it?
I haven t read that thing lately.
He went on to refer to the Republican Party as my vehicle [and] not my master.
The thing is, though, this interview makes Kasich s positions clear.
He is just as anti-gay as his GOP comrades.
He just dresses his bigotry up in nicer language.Do not be fooled, people.
John Kasich is just as extreme as Donald Trump and Ted Cruz he just does a better job of hiding it from everyday people.Watch the exchange below, via Raw Story: Featured image via video screen capture