This could be YUGE news for conservatives who were on the fence about Trump..Gov.
Mike Pence is dropping his re-election bid in Indiana to become Donald Trump s running mate.IndyStar has confirmed that Trump plans to announce Pence as his selection for vice president, ending a weeks-long vice presidential casting call during which Trump vetted a handful of high-profile Republicans.Trump s national campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said a decision has not been made.
A formal announcement is scheduled for 11 a.m. Friday in Manhattan.The long-awaited decision upends the political landscape in Indiana and at least partially remakes the Trump campaign in Pence s image.In Pence, Trump has added a social conservative who GOP strategists say will reassure rank-and-file Republicans that Trump can be trusted to pursue their interests.
Veteran political observers say Pence, a former U.S. House member and chairman of the House Republican Conference, will provide a disciplined counter to Trump s improvisational campaign style.
Pence also brings fundraising power and credibility on a wide range of policy issues that are important to conservatives.
How Governor Mike Pence will help Trump:Indiana Gov.
Mike Pence would bring constitutional fidelity, conservative credentials, traditional faith, foreign policy, Washington know-how, and a calm, steady, Midwestern demeanor to a national ticket with Donald Trump, boosting the New York businessman with several types of voters that may prove to be the key to building an electoral coalition that could propel Trump into the White House.Pence was an Indiana talk show host who took on the party establishment to get into Congress.
Once there, he was regularly a thorn in the establishment s side, routinely opposing the go-along-to-get-along establishment playbook.
But he did so as a happy warrior who kept disagreement focused on policies, while being friendly and personable with his opponents.Over time, Pence became very popular among conservatives, and effective at communicating a conservative message through the national media.Pence repeatedly opposed George W. Bush s proposals to expand government.
When Republicans lost the U.S. House in 2006, Pence took the ultimate anti-establishment step of running against John Boehner to be the leader of House Republicans.
He lost that bid, but garners almost 30 voters against the future Speaker, making a name for himself as someone willing to oppose anyone who Pence believed would not lead as a conservative.Pence was regarded as an effective legislator under both Republican and Democratic presidents.
Trump has no experience negotiating with Congress or experience with the vast complexity of the federal government.
Pence could remedy all that.Pence is also an evangelical Christian with a model family.For a much more in-depth look at Governor Mike Pence and what he brings to a Trump ticket: BreitbartPence is set to officially become the vice presidential nominee during the Republican National Convention, which starts July 18 in Cleveland.
He could become the first vice president from Indiana since Dan Quayle took office in 1989 under George H.W.
Bush.Pence s departure for national politics sets up a scramble among Indiana Republicans to determine who will replace Pence to run against Democratic challenger John Gregg in the November gubernatorial election.
Via: IndyStar