Anyone watching Monday night s highly charged presidential debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump knows that Hillary cleaned Trump s clock.
Of course, Trump s ego will never let him admit that he lost to Hillary, so his surrogates are already being deployed all over the place to spin his embarrassingly terrible debate performance into something positive.
The verbal gymnastics there are astounding, but of course these people are Donald Trump surrogates, so they are used to spinning faster than the head of the girl in The Exorcist.
One Trump surrogate, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, is taking things a step further, though, and trying to float the idea that Trump should refuse to do future debates with Hillary.Of course, this is just a cowardly move because of Trump s abysmal performance.
But Giuliani is the Trump Spinner-in-Chief, and instead decided to blame the fact that NBC moderator Lester Holt actually called Trump out on his lies on his suggestion that Trump should skip out next time.
Giuliani whined that Holt s fact-checking was unfair treatment of Trump, and therefore if it were him, he wouldn t debate again without certain petty, childish demands being met: If I were Donald Trump, I wouldn t participate in another debate unless I was promised the journalist would act like a journalist, and not an ignorant fact check.
My advice would be the moderator would have to promise they d be a moderator.
When pressed, Giuliani refused to say whether or not he would advise Trump to find a way out of debating Hillary again, only that if it were him, it is what he would do.
This is in direct contrast with Trump s campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, who insists Trump will do both future debates.While both candidates had nothing but good things to say about Holt s moderation, Giuliani lit into Holt regarding the stop and frisk question, saying that the moderator s interference regarding the controversial policy and its effects on New York City was outrageous.
However, considering that Trump has floated the idea of a nationwide stop and frisk policy, the discussion on that subject and its racist implementation was perfectly reasonable.
That didn t stop Giuliani from outright lying in his rant, though, when he said: If journalism has ethics, Lester Holt unethically interfering in the area of law he knows nothing about.
It is not unconstitutional and Trump s description of that case was correct.
But, again, this is a lie a federal judge definitely ruled the policy unconstitutional.At the end of the day, Giuliani s tantrum is only because he wants his candidate to be able to lie with impunity in front of millions, because most Trump voters are low information plebes, or they simply don t care about Trump s bigotry, lies, incompetence, and just general all-around douchebaggery.
However, if he gets called out on a debate stage, it makes him look like a fool to undecided voters, who are much more likely to vote for Hillary if they are going to leave third-party camps.If Trump drops out of future debates, he and his surrogates will blame Lester Holt, the so-called liberal media, and anyone and anything besides Trump himself.
Rudy Giuliani is just laying the groundwork for that right now.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images