In what may be the beginning of the end for Donald Trump s tenure as *president, more information has just been disclosed by the Washington Post showing Trump campaign ties to Russia.According to WaPo, not only did Sessions speak with Russia, he lied about it: Then-Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) spoke twice last year with Russia s ambassador to the United States, Justice Department officials said, encounters he did not disclose when asked about possible contacts between members of President Trump s campaign and representatives of Moscow during Sessions s confirmation hearing to become attorney general.
Further: One of the meetings was a private conversation between Sessions and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak that took place in September in the senator s office, at the height of what U.S. intelligence officials say was a Russian cyber campaign to upend the U.S. presidential race.
During Sessions confirmation hearing for Attorney General, he was asked if anyone from Trump s campaign had spoked or communicated with the Russian government.
If you ll recall, Sessions was a big part of Trump s campaign and was often seen on the road with the now *president.Sessions responded to questions about Russian communications by saying: I m not aware of any of those activities I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians.
LIE.WaPo reports: Justice officials said Sessions met with Kislyak on Sept. 8 in his capacity as a member of the armed services panel rather than in his role as a Trump campaign surrogate.
However: The Washington Post contacted all 26 members of the 2016 Senate Armed Services Committee to see if any lawmakers besides Sessions met with Kislyak in 2016.
Of the 19 lawmakers who responded, every senator, including chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.), said they did not meet with the Russian ambassador last year.
The other lawmakers on the panel did not respond as of Wednesday evening.
Shady.
As.
F*ck.With Russian ties to the Trump campaign stacking up by the day, including one that ended in the resignation of Michael Flynn, it s becoming more apparent now, than ever, that there are very obvious ties.Trump has been trying to distract and divert attention any way that he can.
He s told the press and the American people time and time again that there are no Russian ties, yet he will never say one negative word about Russia.
It s alarming, the least.
Hopefully we will see all the truth brought to light sooner rather than later.Featured Photo by Zach Gibson/Getty Images