There was a time when a brutal dictator would strip children from their parents, handcuffing and detaining them simply because of their religion.
It was a shameful time in our world s history that we must be careful not to repea oh, this happened over the f*cking weekend?If you haven t seen it yet, one incident stemming from the chaos caused by Trump s Muslim ban perfectly demonstrates how far we have fallen.
On Saturday, a 5-year-old U.S. citizen was stripped from his family thanks to President Asterisk s Muslim ban.
The Maryland boy was traveling to Washington Dulles airport with another family member to meet his mother, who is from Iran, when they were stopped and the child was handcuffed and detained for hours.
The Huffington Post reports:A 5-year-old boy who was swept up in President Donald Trump s executive order was reunited with his mother Saturday after enduring a several-hour detention, emotional video shows.The little boy, who U.S.
Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.)
identified as a U.S. citizen and Maryland resident, was seen being showered with kisses as his mother embraced him at Washington D.C. s Dulles International Airport, WJZ-TV reported.The child s mother, who is reportedly from Iran, declined an interview as she rushed out of the airport.
Family surrounding the mother and son meanwhile clutched balloons and sang Happy Birthday to the boy, who had been flying with another family member.But not to worry.
On Monday, White House press secretary assured us that this would never happen again just kidding, he doubled down on the decision to treat a 5-year-old U.S. citizen like a terrorist.
To assume someone because of their age or gender, that they don t pose a threat, would be misguided and wrong, Spicer said during a press conference when asked about the situation.If you thought there would be any repentance over the disaster that was this past weekend, you were also misguided and wrong.
The United States has entered a terrifying time in its history, one we can only survive if we stick together and continue to stand up for the oppressed including those who are too small to be heard on their own.Fuck you, Spicer.
Watch it below:Featured image via screengrab