After Megyn Kelly shut down his attempts to woo her, Donald Trump posted an attack on Twitter that sounds just like the jealous rant of a creep who got shot down.During an interview with Vanity Fair earlier this month, the Fox News host described how Trump made multiple efforts to gain her favor in the run up to announcing his campaign for president last summer, declaring that she can t be wooed.
He would send me press clippings about me that he would just sign Donald Trump.
And he called from time to time to compliment a segment.
I didn t know why he was doing that.
And then when he announced that he was running for president, it became more clear.
But I can t be wooed.
I was never going to love him, and I was never going to hate him.
Indeed, Kelly has refused to take shit from Trump.
During a debate in August, Kelly took Trump on and didn t make things easy for him.
Offended, Trump lashed out at Kelly, claiming she was bleeding out of her whatever.
Even after Kelly went on vacation, Trump continued the vicious assaults with the help of his rapid conservative supporters.And now Trump has responded to Kelly s remarks in Vanity Fair by attacking her once again, this time targeting her for her looks and claiming that nobody wants to woo her.
Megyn Kelly recently said that she can t be wooed by Trump, the billionaire Republican presidential wannabe wrote on Twitter.
She is so average in every way, who the hell wants to woo her!
.
@megynkelly recently said that she can t be wooed by Trump.
She is so average in every way, who the hell wants to woo her!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2016And, of course, Trump is only embarrassing himself.
Say what you want about her political beliefs, it is undeniable that Megyn Kelly is not only a beautiful woman, she has a brain as well.
Also, it s pretty ridiculous to say that nobody wants to woo her since she has been married twice.
Clearly, at least two men have succeeded in wooing her while Donald Trump has failed repeatedly.
It sounds like Trump is just jealous because a smart and sexy woman said no to him and refused to let him walk all over her.Featured Image: YouTube