The U.S.A. Freedom Kids performed at a rally for Donald Trump in Florida last January and played a song containing lyrics which were terrifying unless you re pro-war.
After that, the kids were a hit, featured at media appearances, with the three pre-teen girls even telling Inside Edition that Donald told them that he planned to listen to their CD all night long.
However, that cozy relationship has changed since then.The father of one of the Freedom Kids, Jeff Popick, who authored Freedom s Call, told The Washington Post Monday that he is planning to file a lawsuit against the Trump campaign for violating its agreement with the group.
This is not a billion-dollar lawsuit, Popick told the Post.
I m doing this because I think they have to do the right thing.
And if this means having to go through the court system to enforce them doing the right thing, then that s what I have to do.
I m not looking to do battle with the Trump campaign, but I have to show my girls that this is the right thing.
Popick said that promises were made by various agents of the Trump campaign.It started in Pensacola.
When Popick first reached out to the Trump campaign about performing, he spoke with various people including former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski.
His understanding from the campaign was that the Kids would make two appearances in Florida, where Popick lives.
The first event didn t come to fruition, and Popick says he asked for $2,500 in payment for the second performance, in Pensacola.
The campaign made a counter-offer: How about a table where the group could presell albums?
Popick took the deal.After arriving at the venue, the group found that there was no table, and he said it ended in complete chaos, adding, They clearly had made no provisions for that.
Afterward, Popick attempted to contact the Trump campaign to no avail.
Popick said money was spent on promotional material for the table, which never existed.
In addition, Popick said he lost several promotional opportunities over the confusion with his relationship with the campaign.After Donald opted not to be featured during the Fox News debate due to friction with the network, a Trump campaign representative called Popick to see if the Freedom Kids might perform.
Popick tell me if this sounds familiar was promised that there would be huge exposure for the kids from the event, so an agreement was made.The Freedom Kids and their parents flew out to Iowa only to find a message from the campaign saying there was a change of plan.
The performers attended the rally but were told not to talk to the media.
They just were constantly coming over, wanting pictures, Popick said of the news media.
They wanted to take pictures, they wanted to ask questions and I had to be a real jerk.
In the end, the trip, flights, rental car and hotel were all paid by Popick.After that, he kept reaching out again and again and again and again, without luck.
He was passed around between staffers; calls went unreturned even after calls were promised.
Emails Popick sent to the campaign (which he shared with The Post) detail the interaction between himself and the campaign and his ultimate request.
We are now asking and DEMANDING for what has been promised to us and is now long-overdue (and has been rightly earned by us); that is, a performance at the convention, an email dated July 9 reads.
Or, be made whole.
These are guys that insist they re straight shooters, Popick said.
I ve invested a lot of time, effort, money, he continued, and it s just been complete silence.
Popick has consulted with an attorney who believes that he has a very strong case.Popick was a fan of the reality show star-turned GOP nominee but he s not so sure anymore.
At this point, my position is that I have no position, really, Popick said.
What he s done to my group or what he s not done for my group doesn t necessarily make him the best candidate, it doesn t make him the worst candidate.
I still have to mull that over.
He might still be the best candidate as president of the United States or not.
This whole story sounds familiar.
It sounds like the Trump University scam.
We re not sure what Mr. Popick has to mull over.
If a person is ripping off your kid, then you wouldn t normally cast a vote for them but we re not going to tell the father of the Freedom Kids how to freedom.Stand in line, Mr. Popick.
Donald has been involved in 3,500 lawsuits.Featured image via via screen capture.