Donald Trump s reputation as a disgusting racist prig is well known, and it s why known white supremacy groups would pick him up and hug him, and stroke him, and cuddle him, and sing to him, and call him King if they could.
What may not be as well known, though, is just how many of His Royal Racist s retweets come from people who have some tie to white supremacy movements.The Twitter analytics firm, Little Bird, looked at his retweets just from the last week and found that a whopping 62 percent of his retweets are from people who like white supremacy a little too much.
Even worse than this, though, are three Twitter accounts that are so deeply racist and anti-Semitic that it defies description: @cheesebrit, @FishBoneHead1, and @whitegenocideTM.King Trump has retweeted blatantly false things from these accounts, or he s retweeted horrifically racist tweets from them.
The two overlap.That last one, @whitegenocideTM, is particularly frightening, not least because of his handle (he calls himself Donald Trumpowitz), but because of just how full of hatred his feed is (although you can t expect anything else from someone who has white genocide in his handle).
He regularly hurls epithets at everyone from Jews to Muslims, along with everyone else who isn t white and Christian.
@cheesedbrit is the account that tweeted these bald-faced lies posing as statistics awhile back:Trump retweeted that in apparent support of the idea that systemic racism, particularly in our justice system is something the African-American community brings on themselves.
The media got all over him for that, and he shot back with this absolute crap: Am I gonna check every statistic?
Well, yes, King Dunce, if you re going to put them forth as fact, you are going to check them first.
But of course, he didn t.@cheesedbrit s account has since been deleted, however, pieces of it live on as screencaps, and on Twitter itself, including his profile pic, which contained a neo-Nazi symbol:For anybody who doesn t know, goyim is Hebrew for non-Jew, and The Austrian chap with the little mustache, of course, refers to Hitler.
CheesedBrit wants another Hitler, and he believes Trump is that man.Finally, there is the jerk who put out the highly controversial anti-Semitic meme against Hillary Clinton recently.
The meme showed a picture of her next to a Star of David, and said, Most corrupt candidate in history.
Trump has since deleted the meme and replaced it with an edited one that didn t have the Star of David on it, because of course he did.That account holder @FishBoneHead1 should have changed his name to @BoneHead1, because he is, in fact, a world-class bonehead who isn t just a racist, but also a misogynist.
However, that account is likewise deleted, perhaps at Twitter s behest, and perhaps because he just couldn t take the backlash he unleashed on himself with that sickening anti-Hillary, anti-Semitic meme.According to Little Bird, 28 percent of the accounts His Royal Whiteness likes to retweet follow at least one of the top 50 white supremacist groups in the country, and 62 percent follow people who use the #WhiteGenocide hashtag.
If there was any doubt left that Trump is a white supremacist, this erases that entirely.Featured image by Marc Piscotty/Getty Images