On the same day that bomb threats were made, more than 100 headstones were damaged or toppled in a historic Jewish cemetery in University City, Mo., on Monday, in an attack reportedly carried out by an organized group.
Ten Jewish community centers in at least five states in the U.S. were targeted with bomb threats on Monday.
The wave of bomb threats totals 69 incidents targeting 54 JCCs in 27 states.
All of this happened since Donald Trump took office.
Trump has a huge neo-Nazi following, after literally being supported by every white supremacist group across the board during his campaign.But, according to what CNN contributor Rick Santorum said on Tuesday, it s former President Barack Obama s fault.
CNN host Chris Cuomo asked Santorum on Tuesday why the alleged president hasn t called out the attacks on Jewish centers.
While Santorum did say that Trump should tweet something about the attacks, he still defended the amateur president s silence.
Let s look at the president s record and compare it with what we ve seen in the last eight years, Santorum said.
Number one, the president has stood by Israel in ways that President Obama has not, and stood very solidly with the state of Israel.
I ve got to tell you, Chris, this is why you hear about fake news, Santorum said.
For eight years eight years!
the Obama administration sat by and said nothing about the increasing anti-Semitism on college campuses!
It s an outrage you guys are pointing to this 30 days in, and for eight years you ignored that story!
he added.In Trump s Holocaust remembrance statement last month, Trump did not even mention Jewish people.
Former Clinton campaign surrogate Christine Quinn reminded Santorum of that.
This is a case of bomb threats!
Quinn said.
Violence and desecrating cemeteries!
I don t understand the school of thought.
If you think President Obama didn t do enough then do more.
This isn t about being compared to your predecessor, it s about defining yourself.
And does President Trump want to be defined as someone who fights hate crimes and supports Jewish people?
Santorum insisted on defending Trump by saying the former reality TV show star is much more supportive of the state of Israel than Obama.
Donald Trump s base is more pro-Israel, more pro-Jewish people than anybody, Santorum continued.
If you talk to anybody in the pro-Israel movement, they will tell you the bedrock of that is the evangelical Christian community in this country.
In fact, the folks who have been walking away are liberal Jews, who are walking away from Israel, not conservative Christians.
Watch: Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton tagged Trump s @POTUS account and condemned the attacks.JCC threats, cemetery desecration & online attacks are so troubling & they need to be stopped.
Everyone must speak out, starting w/ @POTUS.
Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 21, 2017Santorum needs to be reminded that Barack Obama is no longer the President.
#ThanksObama!Featured image via screen capture.