If you watched CNN during this highly contentious election cycle, you likely saw Democrat Van Jones go toe-to-toe with Jeffrey Lord, who is an ardent Trump supporter.
The two agree on next to nothing, but there is one thing folks likely don t really know about the on-air rivals: They re actually really good friends.
Jones had this to say about why he is friends with Lord, when it is quite obvious that they are polar opposites on everything: How can you not like Jeffrey?
He s adorable.
He s like a Fraggle.
If a Fraggle had a tendency towards terrible revisionist history.
Sure, I could see that.
Lord doesn t seem like a mean-spirited person.
He s just terribly misinformed, especially when it comes to issues of racism, sexism, and other forms of bigotry that constantly plague America.
That s obviously a problem; after all, it s this very ignorance that got the likes of Donald Trump elected president.
However, that doesn t mean that he s necessarily a bad person.
Lord had similar sentiments when asked how he felt about what Jones had to say about him: Which is exactly how I feel about him.
I think Van s a terrific person and a great friend.
We just disagree on everything, and God bless America.
Van Jones and Jeffrey Lord are actually a good example of two people who could be role models for the rest of our incredibly divided nation.
With the advances of technology, all you have to do is block people who you find to be intolerable, and you never get to hear the other side.
Now, make no mistake there are PLENTY of Trump supporters who belong in Hillary s basket of deplorables.
They are racist, sexist, Islamophobic, homophobic, transphobic, xenophobic bigots whose views have absolutely no place in a diverse melting pot like the United States of America.
However, the friendship between these two men should remind us all not to paint with a broad brush.
Not all Hillary supporters brushed aside or refused to see her weaknesses as a candidate, and not all Trump supporters are flaming bigots.
Perhaps Jeffrey Lord and Van Jones can help heal the hate and divisions, simply by being themselves.Featured image via video screen capture from YouTube