The bigoted vice-president-elect is being trolled by his new neighbors at his temporary residence.
Rainbow flags are popping up on different houses on Gov.
Mike Pence s block where he is renting a home before moving into the Vice-President s mansion, according to WJLA.One neighbor, Ilse Heintzen, has gay and lesbian friends and wanted to send a respectful message to Pence.
A respectful message showing, in my case, my disagreement with some of his thinking, said Heintzen.
One neighbor suggested the idea so she and others ordered their own flags.Other neighbors, too, started hanging the pride flags in front of their homes after the VP-Elect moved in because of Pence s stance on the gay community.
More residents are said to be joining the silent protest.
I have no idea what [the Vice-President Elect] will think about, but I hope he will change his mind, she said.As of now, there are about six gay pride flags adorning the block and more are on the way.
This is one way that I can show my disagreement, Heintzen added.Last year, the Indiana Governor signed a religious freedom law that could worsen discrimination against LGBTQ people.
There was a backlash from business community, so Pence eventually signed an amendment to the law intended to protect gays and lesbians.Pence supported a constitutional amendment in 2006 that would have defined marriage as only between a man and a woman.
In a speech, Pence said, societal collapse was always brought about following an advent of the deterioration of marriage and family.
In addition, Pence said being gay a choice and believes keeping gays and lesbians from marrying was not a form of discrimination, but that it s God s idea.
Pence even opposed a law that would prohibit discrimination against LGBT people in the workplace but Donald Trump claims his administration will represent all Americans.So, that s only a few examples out of many as to why Pence was addressed by a concerned cast member of the musical Hamilton.Photo by Andrew Gombert via Getty.