Donald Trump made this way too easy for George Takei.On Saturday morning, Trump lashed out at the cast of Hamilton because the audience booed Mike Pence before the play on Friday night, and the cast delivered a short message afterwards declaring their hope that he learned something from watching.First, Trump whined about so-called harassment, and complained about how this should not happen.
Our wonderful future V.P.
Mike Pence was harassed last night at the theater by the cast of Hamilton, cameras blazing.This should not happen!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 19, 2016Then he demanded an apology from the cast for somehow violating Pence s safe space.The Theater must always be a safe and special place.The cast of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence.
Apologize!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 19, 2016Trump was immediately mocked for his posts, but the award for best response goes to actor George Takei, who masterfully turned Trump s second Twitter post against him as a message from the nation.AMERICA must always be a safe and special place.
The Trump administration has been very cruel to many good people.
Apologize!
https://t.co/ndavyD3su6 George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 19, 2016That s right.
Trump is being a massive hypocrite as usual, and it came back to bite him on the ass.But Takei wasn t done.If Trump gets upset at a NY theater audience booing his VP, imagine what he ll feel like on inauguration when millions cry out against him.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 19, 2016The Internet responds quickly pic.twitter.com/jhtb4BSDIe George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 19, 2016I wonder if Pence went to Hamilton to take our focus off the Trump University fraud settlement.
This administration is morally bankrupt.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 19, 2016For a year and half, Donald Trump has used offensive hate speech and divisive rhetoric.
He has insulted just about every group in America, but he expects everyone to respect him and Pence now.They are pathetic and disgraceful and deserve all the ridicule they are getting from the American people.Featured Image: Wikimedia