Carly Fiorina has decided to add her face to the sideshow known as the Ted Cruz campaign.
Cruz, who can t possibility win the nomination unless there s a contested convention, would then not be picking his own VP, making this entire collaboration a lesson in futility.
Nevertheless, Fiorina has spoken and she will be proud to maybe be on his ticket if hell freezes over and enough loons and zealots come out to vote.
Her official position, it appears, is ring announcer.
With a head bob that exuded all the confidence a woman with zero political capital could muster, Fiorina announced the future first family to the crowd.As the Cruz family heads down towards the stage, Fiorina suddenly disappears.
A quick rewind revealed that she had, in fact, taken a header right in front of Ted And Heidi.
How would they react?
Would they look for her reaction first to see if she was OK and make a clever joke out of it like, Carly just gets so excited to see Ted.
Or do you show immediate concern for your friend and hopeful future Vice-President of the United States?
Here s how Ted Cruz handled the situation:Wasn t that classy?
Both Ted Cruz and wife Heidi decide that the best course of action is to ignore her altogether.
Oh, she fell?
Keep smiling.
Wave over there.
She had better get up or I swear to God I m calling Ben Carson.
All thoughts that wouldn t be out of the question in someone like Ted Cruz s head.
Cruz has always been out for himself.
If Ted Cruz wins the White House we re doomed to an onslaught of legislation and vetoes based on the man s personal religious beliefs.
The fact that he just brought on Carly Fiorina, who will only be remembered for being so opposed to Planned Parenthood that she was willing to throw her whole campaign behind these taped that turned out to be edited, out of context lies that have already landed those responsible with an indictment.Carly is a fitting piece to the puzzle.
She s irrational, annoying and has little actual clout with anyone.
Congrats on the great find, Ted.
Apparently you care about as much about her as the rest of America.Featured image via screen capture