Usually, men have all the advantages they make more than women, are automatically considered more competent (whether or not this actually the case) than women, have higher promotion prospects, can walk down a public street without worrying about random passersby sexually harassing them, don t have to worry about things being blamed on the way they were dressed at the time, and even can practice religion without the dogma of their faith placing them in subjugated roles.
But one area in which men have more problems is the dating world.According to experts, men feel significantly more anxiety about dating than do women.
But since Donald Trump is so awesome, YouTube prankster Ari Blau tried channeling the billionaire 2016 presidential candidate to see how much that helped (hey, Trump says that everybody loves him, right?).
In short, it was as much a disaster as Trump s presidential campaign.Blau used actual Trump quotes while trying to score a date.
When Mexico sends its people, they re not sending their best.
They re not sending you.
They re not sending you.
They re sending people that have lots of problems, and they re bringing those problems to us, he tells one woman, who responded much in the same manner as the rest of the country when Trump initially made those remarks.
I m just saying we need to build a wall.
That one got him slapped.Blau told a Muslim woman he is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country s representatives can figure out what the hell is going on.
When she pointed out that he said he doesn t like Muslims, he informed her that she and her friend look like nice ones.
Surprisingly, neither of them were interested in hanging out after those remarks.Another woman walked away when he assured her that his hair is real and offered to allow her to feel it, while he elicited a What the fuck?
response from an African-American lady who had just been informed thatBlau doesn t like black people counting his money (he d prefer a Jewish guy).
Another African-American woman who had just been informed that Barack Obama s birth certificate is a scam told Blau exactly what America has been telling Trump for years: You seem like a terrible person.
Tell me about it.
He was emulating one of the worst people.Interesting, one of Blau s colleagues, Vanessa Elgrichi, had much better success in getting some digits while dropping Hillary Clinton quotes on guys, even when she literally barked like a dog (yes, Clinton did that) for about 10 seconds and paraphrased the plotline of right-wing cinema treasure, 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi (technically not a quote, but it was funny).Guys just don t give a f*ck.
You can see that happen below:No word on the effectiveness of Bernie Sanders quotes yet.Featured Image via screengrab