Donald Trump s list of allies is getting shorter because of his outrageous accusation against President Obama.During the campaign, Marco Rubio fiercely opposed Trump but soon chose to kiss his ass and endorse him.Rubio has been reluctant to say anything against Trump ever since, but that changed over the weekend after Trump openly accused President Obama of wiretapping Trump Tower in a Saturday morning Twitter rant.Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process.
This is Nixon/Watergate.
Bad (or sick) guy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Trump offered zero evidence to back up his claims and both former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and current FBI Director James Comey have forcefully refuted Trump s accusation.And now Rubio, who is on the Senate Intelligence Committee, says that Trump will have to answer for his lies.
I have no evidence and no one has presented anything to me that indicates anything like that, Rubio told Meet The Press on Sunday.
Suffice it to say I don t have any basis, I ve never heard that allegation made before by anybody.
I ve never seen anything about that anywhere before.
But again, the president put that out there, and now the White House will have to answer as to exactly what he was referring to.
Chuck Todd went on t ask Rubio if he would concede that if Trump is lying that it would be a huge political scandal and Rubio agreed.Here s the video via YouTube:Trump is desperate to distract everyone from focusing on his ever-growing Russia scandal, so he made up this lie based on a conspiracy theory he read on Breitbart in the hopes that Congress and the media will shift their focus.This is a serious accusation against a former president and Trump should be severely punished for it.
He has offered no evidence to prove his claim and that means he is slandering President Obama, which should result in a lawsuit and impeachment.
But we all know that Republicans in Congress have zero credibility so they will more than likely shield Trump and pursue a witch hunt against Obama, who was a more honorable and respected president than Trump will ever be.Featured image via screenshot