There are several movements out there to try and stop Trump from officially becoming president and most of them center on the Electoral College now.
Alexander Hamilton wrote, in Federalist 68, that the purpose of the Electoral College was to prevent unqualified individuals (like demagogues such as Trump) from assuming the highest office in the land.
One lawyer, who s actually a former presidential candidate himself, says that at least 20 Republican electors are ready to uphold Hamilton s ideal and reject Trump.We need 37 of them to flip their votes to anyone else.
While it s unlikely they ll vote for Hillary instead, just denying Trump the minimum 270 votes he needs to secure the White House could have a major effect on how Congress decides the issue.
According to Larry Lessig, who is a constitutional law professor at Harvard: Obviously, whether an elector ultimately votes his or her conscience will depend in part upon whether there are enough doing the same.
We now believe there are more than half the number needed to change the result seriously considering making that vote.
Lessig s anti-Trump group, known as Electors Trust, has been giving legal counsel to Republican electors who don t want to vote for Trump.
They ve also been giving these electors a way to discuss their intentions privately, which is extremely important given that Trump has threatened to destroy any of his electors who don t vote for him.Of course, the RNC disagrees with this statistic vehemently.
They ve been conducting a whip operation, which is basically an effort to ensure that all their electors plan to vote properly.
They re only aware of Chris Suprun, a Texas elector who has gone on record numerous times as saying he s unable to vote for Trump.
He s also been trying to convince his fellow Republican electors to follow his lead.Why would any Republican elector openly admit to the RNC that they re considering casting their votes for someone else?
That s one thing the RNC doesn t seem to be considering.
In fact, they re acting clueless about the discontent over Trump that exists within their party.And frankly, most of us would lie through our teeth if we were afraid an autocratic, thin-skinned, egotistical manchild of a Cheetolini was going to try and ruin us for defying him.This isn t set in stone, and we only have five days left before the Electoral College formally recognizes or denies Donald Trump, so there s no time to lose.
If there s anything you know of that could help convince more Republican electors to drop Trump, now s the time to do it.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images