Texas Civil Rights lawyer Rob Ranco is a partner at The Carlson Law Firm at the Round Rock, TX location.
He is the supervising attorney for the firm s three Austin offices.When Rob isn t busy chasing ambulances or using a bullying incident his daughter allegedly faced at school to gain celebrity, he s publicly telling the world he d be okay if Betsy DeVos, a mother, grandmother and US Secretary of Education was sexually assaulted.
It looks the real bully has been exposed Here s Rob Ranco s vile tweet, that he quickly deleted after it started to get traction on Twitter:This is what Rob s Twitter account looks like now:Here is a link to the archived tweet and to the responses Ranco got to his disgusting comment: https://archive.fo/xNdigRob Ranco, a partner in the Texas Carlson Law Firm was apparently referring to a decision made by Betsy DeVos, that she announced earlier in the week regarding changes that would be made to Title IX as it relates to the unfair and unlawful way sexual assault cases are currently being tried on college campuses.Betsy DeVos spoke on Thursday, September 7, at George Mason University s Virginia campus.
DeVos ignited a firestorm when she announced the end of yet another case of an unlawful overreach by Barack Obama, that affected every college student by stripping them of their right to due process in sexual assault cases.DeVos explained her reasoning for reversing an unfair and impractical solution to sexual assault on campuses: Survivors, victims of a lack of due process, and campus administrators, have all told me that the current approach does a disservice to everyone involved.
A student says he or she was sexually assaulted by another student on campus.
If he or she isn t urged to keep quiet, or discouraged from reporting it to local law enforcement, the case goes to a school administrator, who will act as the judge and jury.
The accused may or may not be told of the allegations before a decision is rendered.
If there is a hearing, both the survivor and the accused, may or may not be allowed legal representation.
Whatever evidence is presented may or may not be shown to all parties.
The notion that a school must diminish due process rights to better serve the victim only creates more victims.
A better way also means we shouldn t demand anyone become something they are not.Click HERE for video of Betsy DeVos making her announcement that has the Ivy League educated attorney so angry.Ranco brags about his huge settlement against the Austin Police Department in 2016, for excessive use of force against an innocent citizen.
Rob offered to give up his salary before the case was even settled in an effort to get the Austin Police Department to admit guilt before the settlement.
The Youtube videos showing him asking for an apology for his client have all been mysteriously scrubbed, but we have managed to locate the grandstanding video and can be seen below:Rob mentions his wife Tonia, who has her own website and Youtube channel that caters to women in his profile on Twitter.Tonia has also shut down her Twitter account, as her husband s disgusting remarks are sure to harm her business whose primary market appears to be women.Leave it to a liberal to be so filled with hate for anyone who doesn t agree with him, that he s willing to destroy his own career, and in the process, destroy his wife s career as well.Here s a video of Rob promoting himself and his excellent skills as a lawyer: