Former FBI Director James Comey will testify before Congress at 10 a.m. EST on Thursday, June 8, but you can read his full prepared testimony in advance, right here.Comey will go into great detail about the awkward moments he shared with Donald Trump, as outlined in the document that was posted on the website of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, headed by North Carolina Republican Sen. Richard Burr, on Wednesday.
Key moments Comey will bring up include the time that Trump asked him to pledge his loyalty and to drop the investigation into National Security Advisor Michael Flynn.
The President said, I need loyalty, I expect loyalty,' Comey has written in his prepared testimony.
I didn t move, speak, or change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence that followed.
Comey had nine one-to-one conversations with Trump, three personal and six by phone, within a span of four months and he kept detailed notes on each of them, a practice he never felt necessary while working under Barack Obama.
All of the personal interactions and two of the phone conversations are included in the prepared testimony.
Obviously, Republicans are going into panic mode due to some of the explosive claims in the document, with Senator John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas, telling a reporter from the One America News Network he wants to see the memos that Comey kept.Senator Cornyn tells me re: Comey, "If he wrote memos I think we are entitled to see those memos."
Trey Yingst (@TreyYingst) June 7, 2017Also included are three instances where Comey told the Trump that he himself wasn t under investigation.
Trump s outside counsel, Marc Kasowitz, claims that the president is pleased to hear Comey finally acknowledge what he had been claiming all along.
The president is pleased that Mr. Comey has finally publicly confirmed his private reports that the President was not under investigation in any Russia probe, the attorney wrote in a statement.
The president feels completely and totally vindicated.
Despite this acknowledgment and Trump simply wishing James Comey luck, his administration has been preparing a statement of their own behind the scenes, hoping to rebut and discredit the former FBI Director.In the meantime, you can read James Comey s full prepared statement right here in preparation for Thursday morning s events.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images