Conservatives talk the talk but can they walk the walk?That s exactly what President Obama dared them to do during a press conference in Warsaw, Poland on Saturday when he asked them to prove they truly care about the lives of police officers by supporting common sense gun measures to make the jobs of cops easier and safer.Republicans have repeatedly blamed President Obama and Black Lives Matter for the killing of five police officers in Dallas, Texas all while professing their own love of police officers and concern for their safety.President Obama told reporters that police have a tough job to do and made it clear that the actions of the Dallas shooter should not be assumed to be supported by all black people just as people did not blame all white people for the Charleston church shooting in South Carolina.
When some white kid walks into a church and shoots a bunch of worshipers who invite him to worship with them we don t assume somehow he s making a political statement that s relevant to the attitudes of the rest of America.
And we shouldn t make those assumptions about a troubled Muslim individual who is acting on their own in that same way.
President Obama then moved on to speak about guns and the role they play in these tragedies.
I am going to keep talking about the fact that we cannot eliminate all racial tension in our country overnight.
We are not going to be able to identify ahead of time and eliminate every madman or troubled individual who might want to do harm against innocent people.
But we can make it harder for them to do so.
President Obama mentioned the harrowing number of gun violence incidents that have occurred in this country for the last ten years, pointing out that there is a pattern of gun violence that makes America unique in the scale of violence that we experience including mass shootings and gun murders we mostly consider routine.
President Obama mentioned his hometown of Chicago as an example.President Obama then made a connection between all of these shootings and the lack of gun restrictions that make it harder for people officers to do their jobs.
Part of what s creating tensions between communities and the police is the fact that police have a really difficult time in communities where they know guns are everywhere, he said before using Dallas as an example because protesters participating in the rally that night exercised their right to open carry because Texas is an open-carry state.
Because of all the guns around, the confused police initially had trouble figuring out who was shooting at them, even aiming their guns at the crowd before discovering where the shots were really coming from.With that said, President Obama challenged Republicans to put their money where their mouth is and treat guns as a contributing factor to gun violence if they really care about the lives of police as they claim: If you care about the safety of our police officers, then you can t set aside the gun issue and pretend that s irrelevant We can t just ignore that and pretend that that s somehow political or the president is just pushing his policy agenda.
It s a contributing factor, not the sole factor, but a contributing factor to the broader tensions that arise between police and the communities where they serve There is a way to talk about that that is consistent with our Constitution and the Second Amendment.
The problem is even mention of it somehow evokes this kind of polarization between a very intense minority and a majority of Americans who think we could do better when it comes to gun safety.
Here s the video via Youtube.Conservatives want everyone to believe that there is a war between cops and black people, probably because they are hoping for one so the NRA and gun industry can make more money selling guns to every person they successfully scare with their bullshit.
But the fact is that if the Dallas shooter had not had access to a high-powered assault rifle, there would be more police officers alive today.
But Republicans refuse to do anything that would tighten gun restrictions in this country even though such restrictions could reduce gun violence and save lives, including the lives of police officers who have to work in these guns everywhere states wondering who is going to open fire next.Featured image via screenshot