While Trump is busy lying about an adult film in a sorry attempt to shame former Miss Universe, Alicia Machado, his own skeletons are coming out of the closet, and we don t mean about his extramarital affairs.
It seems that, while he was married to his second wife, Marla Maples, he tried to force her to pose nude for Playboy, as their centerfold.He didn t even let her participate in the negotiations, really.
He was on the phone to Playboy negotiating her mega fee for her.
As evidenced by all three of his wives, all Trump has ever wanted his women to be are trophies, showpieces, ornaments, arm candy.
Having a wife in Playboy would have been wonderful for his image as a ladykiller.Marla, though, didn t want to participate.
From the original 1990 Sun-Sentinel story on the issue: Donald doesn t want Marla to look like she s against Ivana, says Trump s P.R.
guru Chuck Jones.
Donald wants picture approval.
Donald says to emphasize her early years.
Notably, she did resist Trump s insistence that she accept Playboy magazine s million-dollar centerfold offer.
Trump himself was on the phone negotiating the fee, remembers a top Playboy editor.
He wanted her to do the nude layout.
She didn t. ( I m thankful for my body, but I didn t want to exploit it, Marla offers.
How would I ever be taken seriously? )
Here s an image of the original piece:@LPDonovan Nifty find.
Trump pressuring his future wife to pose for Playboy.
Personally negotiated the fee.
pic.twitter.com/P4AMmx10ls Jeff Nichols (@backwards_river) October 1, 2016Trump wouldn t have wanted Marla to be taken seriously he didn t take her seriously himself, otherwise he wouldn t have done this to her.
She was a sex object, nothing more, and he wanted to parade her around as proof of his manly virility.This probably wasn t anything like the first time he did something like this, either.
Trump also allegedly tried to coerce female staffers into posing for Playboy, too.
How anybody could think that s okay in the context of the workplace is beyond us.
He wanted a layout called, The Girls of Trump, and it would have featured the hottest women he had on his staff.
More evidence of his manly virility.While Playboy has run similar spreads, none of the companies named in those spreads either requested or sanctioned the layouts.
Trump did, but the spread never happened.
He has zero right to shame Alicia Machado, even if she HAD appeared in an adult film.Featured image by Diane Freed via Getty Images