Very few people with significant money or power in this country are voting for Donald Trump.
Even the Koch brothers are publicly backing off supporting the toxic, self-described billionaire.
One Silicon Valley billionaire is happy to be on the Trump train, even after the allegations of sexual assault surfaced.
Perhaps that s because PayPal cofounder Peter Thiel, who is also a Facebook investor and a $1.25 million Trump donor, doesn t really think sexual assault is a big deal.In 1995, Thiel wrote a book called The Diversity Myth: Multiculturalism and Political Intolerance on Campus.
If you think that sounds like a Trump-esque screed against political correctness, you d be right.The book isn t just about saying offensive words or about cultural appropriation.
According to The Guardian s article on it, Thiel complained that in many cases, complaints of date rape were just regret by the victims.In a case about a 17-year-old Stanford freshman who said she was raped in a dorm room while drunk, Thiel and his cowriter and PayPal partner, David O. Sacks, wrote: Although [the alleged perpetrator] was clearly guilty of serving alcohol to an underage woman and taking advantage of her resulting lack of judgement, there was no sexual assault Understandably, however, the woman regretted the whole incident afterwards.
This argument has never made sense to me.
In rape cases, the benefit of the doubt always goes with the accused rapist.
A rape victim opens herself up to slander, to character assassination and to accusations exactly like the one above.
Wouldn t the more logical response to regret to be to deny it ever happened?Thiel also believes that rape necessarily involves physical injuries, which would mean that those influenced by date rape drugs would likely have no claim, at least in his perfect world.
It is ludicrous to believe that anyone who had been forcefully violated would not know it and bear physical marks.
Then, there s this, because you know, men are always the victims: The purpose of the rape crisis movement seems as much about vilifying men as about raising awareness.'
Thiel s book, as described in The Guardian, goes on to complain about the many ways whites, and white men in particular, are victimized and vilified in this country.
Is it any wonder he is supporting Donald Trump?Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images.