Phyllis Schlafly, the rabid anti-feminist, anti-gay, anti-anything that makes sense grassroots organizer, thinks Michele Bachmann yes, Michele Bachmann is completely unqualified to pick up the torch and lead the family values movement.For once, Phyllis Schlafly and liberals agree on something.Schlafly, 91, is facing a coup by her own daughter and other members of her organization, The Eagle Forum, after endorsing GOP frontrunner Donald Trump.
Other members of the forum were unaware and taken aback by Schlafly s endorsement, and would have rather backed Texas Senator Ted Cruz.While appearing on right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones radio show, Schlafly contends that after passing over her daughter, Anne Cori, for the position of successor, all hell began to break loose.
The forum handpicked a successor, Ed Martin, but that notion quickly went down in flames.It was Schlafly s pick for a successor that shouldn t have surprised anyone: Michele Bachmann.The former Congresswoman from Minnesota and failed presidential candidate is almost identical in every way to Schlafly.
They are both anti-woman, anti-gay, anti-science and oppose anything progressive.
It seemed like a perfect match.
Bachmann even recorded a moving tribute to Schlafly, who she called the pioneer of the modern conservative woman and her personal heroine.
However, as Schlafly got to know the Congresswoman on a more personal level, the quicker she realized Bachmann was completely unqualified to succeed her.
Telling Alex Jones: A lot of our people wanted us to pick Michele Bachmann, and she certainly has a lot of talent, a very fine speaker and so forth.
But she knew nothing about running an organization and she knew nothing about politics outside of her own domain.
Ouch.
Even Michele Bachmann is too stupid to lead an organization of equally stupid people.
Add that to the list of things she s failed at.I m not quite sure what her own domain means, but if she s talking about Bachmann s fantasy-land inspired politics, than yes, she knows nothing.Here s Bachmann s cringe worthy tribute to Schlafly:Featured image via Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images