Sarah Palin knows she s a political outcast.
She s proud of it.
She thinks because nobody cares what she thinks besides a handful of dense Trump supporters who are at his rallies to listen rather than wait for the chance to beat someone up that she qualifies as some kind of revolutionary.She actually qualifies as a has-been as well as a never-should-have-been, but I digress.
There is nothing revolutionary about Sarah Palin.
Assuming that she ll be able to just walk into a secure facility without an invite because you can see Russia from a remote island off the coast of Alaska or because your ever-so-pure Christian family are pros at losing custody battles, beating women and having children out-of-wedlock is a bit naive.Palin says she s going, however, and not even Paul Revere ringin those bells and warning the British that they r uhhh not gonna take our guns will stop her.
In an interview with the Associated Press, Palin said she may have to invite herself.
I can t see any of them inviting me, she said, adding that the leaders of the RNC are afraid of what I might say.
Ya think?
Every time this woman opens her mouth yet another round of inane rambling comes out.
She has no clue how to prepare for a successful public appearance, which is why she s had so few.
She doesn t deserve a stage or a microphone, even if it the Republican clown convention we re talking about.Palin also warned that the RNC had better not mess with Trump, who she called so reasonable and full of common sense.
She says the people will rise up if they deny their candidate the nomination: How dare they these arrogant, arrogant political operatives.
Under the wisdom of the people, we will rise up, and we will say our vote does count, our activism does count.
And for those who would try to warp that, those are the ones who need to leave we don t need to leave.
Looks like Sarah Palin is gonna jump onto the Trump train as it crashes into Cleveland, which will be nothing short of hilarious especially if they tell her to beat it.Time will tell.
I wonder if the grandkids will be helping her forge an invitation with construction paper and crayons.Featured image from Aaron Bernstein/Getty Images