Khizr Khan, whose son was killed in Iraq while serving in the United States Military, took the stage at the Democratic National Convention and blasted Donald Trump.
Beside him, his wife stood quietly while he asked if the Republican nominee had ever read the Constitution and then offered to lend him his copy.
So naturally, Trump decided to attack her silence, insisting she held her tongue because she was MuslimGhazala Khan wrote a scathing response to the billionaire bully that was published in Sunday s edition of the Washington Post.Donald Trump has asked why I did not speak at the Democratic convention.
He said he would like to hear from me.
Here is my answer to Donald Trump: Because without saying a thing, all the world, all America, felt my pain.
I am a Gold Star mother.
Whoever saw me felt me in their heart.She wrote of how much her son, Humayun Khan, loved his country and how brave he was.
She told of how, like every soldier s mother, she worried for his safety.
She said that as he got on the plane for his deployment, he gave her strength.
Don t worry, Mom.
Everything will be all right, he had told her.Mother s Day 2004 was the last time Ghazala got to speak with her son.
She had begged him to be safe and he told her, Mom, these are my soldiers, these are my people.
I have to take care of them.
He was taking care of his men when he died.
He went to investigate a suspicious vehicle and was killed by a car bomb, but only after telling his everyone else to stay back and take cover.She said that her son always wanted to help people, something he did by volunteering to teach swim classes for people with disabilities at a local hospital.
She added that he had wanted to follow in his father s footsteps and become a lawyer.
To this day, Ghazala said she is unable to walk into a room with pictures of the middle son she lost.
Walking onto the convention stage, with a huge picture of my son behind me, I could hardly control myself, she wrote.
What mother could?
Donald Trump has children whom he loves.
Does he really need to wonder why I did not speak?
Ghazala then spoke directly to the Republican nominee as she concluded.Donald Trump said that maybe I wasn t allowed to say anything.
That is not true.
My husband asked me if I wanted to speak, but I told him I could not.
My religion teaches me that all human beings are equal in God s eyes.
Husband and wife are part of each other; you should love and respect each other so you can take care of the family.Donald Trump said he has made a lot of sacrifices.
He doesn t know what the word sacrifice means.Something tells me that Trump wishes he hadn t antagonized Ghazala to the point she felt the need to respond.
It surely didn t turn out very well for him.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images