Donald Trump is horrible, and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg is not at all shy in letting the world know that.
My great grandparents came from Germany, Austria and Poland.
Priscilla s parents were refugees from China and Vietnam.
The United States is a nation of immigrants, and we should be proud of that, Zuckerberg wrote on Facebook Friday.
Like many of you, I m concerned about the impact of the recent executive orders signed by President Trump.
Zuckerberg, of course, is referecing Donald Trump s recent executive orders authorizing the gigantic waste of taxpayer dollars that is his border wall, a partial ban on Muslims entering the United States, and even concentration camps for his planned massive immigrant roundup.
We need to keep this country safe, but we should do that by focusing on people who actually pose a threat, the Facebook CEO continued.
Expanding the focus of law enforcement beyond people who are real threats would make all Americans less safe by diverting resources, while millions of undocumented folks who don t pose a threat will live in fear of deportation.
We should also keep our doors open to refugees and those who need help.
That s who we are, Zuckerberg says.
Had we turned away refugees a few decades ago, Priscilla s family wouldn t be here today.
Though he is critical of Trump s horrible stance and actions, Zuckerberg says he is glad to hear that Trump plans to work something out for DREAMers, adding that he hopes the protections available to them survive the Trump administration and that he is glad Trump says he feels the United States should benefit from people of great talent coming into the country.
These issues are personal for me even beyond my family.
A few years ago, I taught a class at a local middle school where some of my best students were undocumented.
They are our future too.
We are a nation of immigrants, and we all benefit when the best and brightest from around the world can live, work and contribute here, Zuckerberg adds.
I hope we find the courage and compassion to bring people together and make this world a better place for everyone.
You can read the full post here:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10'; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));My great grandparents came from Germany, Austria and Poland.
Priscilla's parents were refugees from China and Vietnam .Posted by Mark Zuckerberg on Friday, January 27, 2017featured image via Getty Images(Win McNamee)/screengrab