Just as his press secretary, Sean Spicer, made a complete idiot of himself stroking Trump s ego and blasting a flabbergasted White House press corps, Trump himself made a complete idiot of himself addressing the CIA today.
Except in Trump s case, he wasn t just dumb, he was offensive.
And former CIA chief John Brennan had something to say about it.Standing in front of the CIA s Memorial Wall, Trump whined and cried that the media was lying about his numbers at the inauguration, claiming that there had to have been at least 1.5 million people there.
He devoted just a couple of minutes of the entire speech to actually talking to the CIA.
In response to that, Brennan said, according to his former chief of staff, Nick Shapiro: Former CIA director Brennan is deeply saddened and angered at Donald Trump s despicable display of self-aggrandizement in front of CIA s Memorial Wall of Agency heroes.
Brennan says that Trump should be ashamed of himself.
Brennan wasn t alone in this.
Another former CIA official said he was embarrassed by Trump s free-wheeling, narcissistic diatribe.
Yet another said, Not quite a this is hallowed ground moment.
Former CIA Director Mike Hayden, who is Republican but stood against Trump, actually took a hell of a dig at him for it: I was heartened that the President gave a speech at CIA.
It would have been even better if more of it had been about CIA.
[emphasis mine]A DNC senior adviser, Zac Petkanas, issued a blistering statement, too: After he finished ranting about crowd sizes on the National Mall, I hope President Trump sat down for an interview with the CIA to help with their investigation into his team s possible collusion with the Kremlin to win the election.
Next, he can sit down with the FBI who have sought warrants to monitor his team for the same reason.
For his part, Trump had to drop this piece of insanity into his speech: And I know maybe sometimes you haven t gotten the backing that you ve wanted, and you re going to get so much backing.
Maybe you re going to say, please don t give us so much backing.
Lords, gods and minor deities, really?
That s reminiscent of when he said we were going to start winning so much that we d get tired of it.At least he didn t ask them to raise their hands if they voted for him.We all know Trump has no shame.
He loves to lie and he s got his staff lying their asses off for him, too.
But this disrespectful display is over the top for a man occupying the highest office in the U.S.Worse, he was greeted by cheering CIA officers when he arrived there, and he proceeded to talk all about himself.
That wall, with 117 stars representing agents who have died in the line of duty, is a sacred place.
Trump desecrated it with his childish egotism and accusations of lies.
Most presidents who speak there choose their words and tones very carefully out of respect for fallen agents and the families they ve left behind.But not Trump!
Trump has to make everything all about himself.
He deserves to be blasted for it.Photo of John Brennan by Evy Mages/Getty Images, photo of Donald Trump by Olivier Doulier Pool/Getty Images