As Donald Trump and his supporters continue to live in a frightening amount of denial that they are losing this election, their moronic claims of the election being rigged is only getting louder.
Their cries have gotten more desperate as Trump s campaign continues to further unravel thanks to a leaked audio tape and numerous allegations of sexual assault against Trump.CNN s Jake Tapper recently had a mind numbing experience with a Trump supporter on The Lead, when Trump spokesperson Boris Epshteyn actually tried to say that President Barack Obama won the 2008 election because of voter fraud in North Carolina.
Building upon Trump s claims of a rigged system , Epshteyn said: What Mr. Trump and our campaign are talking about is the rigged system in two ways.
One, in terms of the media.
96 percent of donations, contributions in this cycle by the media are going to the Clinton campaign.
Epshteyn didn t get very far before Tapper cut him off and said: Boris, That s like from like restaurant that s like from TV critics and restaurant reviewers.
That s not from me!
That s not from Chris Cuomo or campaign staff or anybody covering the election.
But Epshteyn didn t care how idiotic his argument was and kept right on, spewing exaggerated numbers just like his boss: Numbers by Pew show that 40 percent of people who are not citizens are registered to vote.
People who are dead voting in Colorado.
Those are the kind of instances, the kind of voter fraud, we want to make sure that does not happen.Barack Obama may have won that Barack Obama may have won in 2008 in North Carolina due to illegal voting.
And this is where Epshteyn went too damn far.
Guest Angela Rye, who was standing beside him, blurted out Oh my God in disbelief, and Tapper jumped in to dispute this insanity.
Tapper fired back: Boris, where are you getting that from?
Barack Obama won in North Carolina because of voter fraud?
Rye laughed at the bizarre claim, but Epshteyn wasn t deterred.
He continued: Look at the Washington Post story saying 5 percent of voting in North Carolina may have been by non-citizens who shouldn t have been voting and swung North Carolina to Mr. Obama to President Obama because of how tight the race in North Carolina was in 2008.
The segment then erupted in chaos as Rye and Epshteyn sparred over Trump s recent sexual assault allegations and this ridiculous voter fraud claim.
Tapper just looked on, almost too stunned to do anything.
You can watch this ridiculous segment below:Featured image is a screenshot