It s been really hard for the LGBT community to welcome Caitlyn Jenner with open arms and the reason played across television screens on Sunday evening.
On the season two premiere of her show, I Am Cait, Jenner decided to talk about politics and it was all bad.Since Jenner announced that she was transgendered she has faced criticism for her defense of the Republican Party.
It has left her looking as if she is completely out of touch with the community she says she wants to be a part of.
Last year, on Ellen, she even went as far as to say that she doesn t not believe in same-sex marriage.
After the incredible amount of backlash she received from those comments, you d think she would have stayed as far away from her GOP cheerleading as possible, but apparently she s not very bright (typical Republican).During the episode, the right-winger voiced a completely asinine opinion about Hillary Clinton: If we re unfortunate enough to get Hillary as our next president, we need her on our side, Jenner told her friends.
Although she won t be she couldn t care less about women.
She only cares about herself.
What?Hillary Clinton has been a longtime supporter of women s rights.
While Jenner s Republican buddies have fought tooth and nail to implant their elephants in women s uteri, Hillary has stood up for us along with the rest of the Democratic Party.
Anybody who disputes this has clearly not been paying attention.
Maybe Jenner believes that the only way to support women is by making our health care choices for us, limiting our rights, fighting against equal pay and every other dig the GOP has taken at us because they think we are all stupid.As if her Clinton comment wasn t ignorant enough, what she said about the Republican Party was mindblowing: All of em.
None of the Republicans [say], Oh, I hate trans people or I hate gays.
Nothing like that, They do more, I want a thriving economy so every trans person has a job.'
I don t feel like they re out to get us, Jenner said.
Every conservative guy out there believes in everybody s rights.
She s absolutely right, Republicans have never said, We hate gays!
They just say things like this:Oh yeah, those certainly sound like comments from people who believe in protecting everybody s rights, don t they?This is why the trans and LGB community doesn t trust Jenner.
She claims that Hillary Clinton only cares about herself, but she needs to take a hard look in the mirror, because Clinton is not the problem here.Watch:Featured image via screenshot