It was just a few days ago that President Barack Obama absolutely destroyed Donald Trump on his controversial comments about nuclear power.
Speaking to reporters at the fourth Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, D.C., Obama addressed the Republican front runner s remarks that more countries should have nuclear weapons, and gracefully called Trump out for being a complete idiot when he said: The person who made the statements doesn t know much about foreign policy or nuclear policy or the Korean Peninsula or the world generally.
It was completely true and obvious statement to most but not Trump, who lives in a self-absorbed, denial-filled bubble.
Always ready to start an immature feud with people far more qualified than himself, Trump has decided to hit back at Obama in a way that makes him seem like even more of a moron.
During a campaign stop in Milwaukee, Wisconsin yesterday, Trump literally decided to tell people that he understands the world much better than Obama.
Seriously.
Watch that ridiculous moment below:For Trump to blatantly say that he knows more about how the world works than Obama, who has been an extremely successful President for the last 8 years and done more for American than Republicans will ever give him credit for, is a hilarious and yet terrifying demonstration in Trump s obvious lack of self-awareness.Trump followed that comment with criticism for the President s treatment of Syrian refugees, making the argument that the United States should not be letting them enter the country.
Trump said: We have no idea where they come from.
They could be ISIS, and they might not be, but they could be ISIS.
Did you ever notice the migration?
There are so many young strong men.
Where are the women and children?And I said don t let them in, we can t let them in.
We ll build a safe zone, we ll build a free zone We ll get the Gulf states to pay, because I don t want to pay.
Currently, Trump is behind his rival, Texas Senator Ted Cruz in Wisconsin and if Cruz takes the state in its nominating contest on Tuesday, this could be a major turning point in the race for GOP nomination.
If Cruz wins, he would get all of the Mid-western state s 42 delegates, making it much harder for Trump to reach the 1,237 delegates he needs to get nominated before the Republican national convention in July.
Featured image via Getty Images / Mark Wilson