How this didn t happen sooner, I do not know.
But on Sunday, Ted Nugent appeared at a campaign rally with Donald Trump and it went just about how you d expect.
Nugent played a little guitar, spewed some profanity and groped himself on the stage.Taking the stage at a Trump rally in Michigan, Nugent struggled with his amp before pumping out the national Anthem in the style of Jimi Hendricks.
Who decided to give the man a microphone, I don t know, but the controversial rockstar took the opportunity to rant about shit kickers and ass kickers.
I ve got your blue state right here, baby, Nugent yelled at one point while grabbing his crotch and giving it a squeeze.
Black and blue!
Trump came out to give his speech after Nugent s antics but didn t mention them at all.
He did, however, brag that he doesn t need guitars at his rallies.
Apparently, it escaped his attention that Ted effing Nugent had just spent the past half hour playing guitar at his rally.
There s no guitar to draw a crowd for his rallies, Trump says, minutes after Ted Nugent played his guitar for a half hour or so.
Nicole Hemmer (@pastpunditry) November 7, 2016Nugent is a Michigan native, born in Detroit, but it isn t likely that his support will help Trump win the state.
Besides the fact that Nugent is a washed up rockstar turned raving right-wing lunatic who sh*t his own pants because he was too scared to serve in the military, polling shows that Trump is way behind Hillary Clinton in Michigan.It is pretty ironic, though, that Trump has been trying to point attention to literally anything besides crotch grabbing and Nugent just felt himself up onstage at his rally.
But hey, should we really have expected that Trump would finish up the final days of his campaign any other way?You can watch Ted Nugent grope himself while stumping for Trump, here:Nugent: I ve got your blue state right here, baby.
#Trump rallies are just as crude & disgusting as you might expect at this point.
pic.twitter.com/lTRl9Wiv26 Correct The Record (@CorrectRecord) November 6, 2016Featured image via video screen capture