A Trump-loving white shopper had a racist meltdown of #babyTrump proportions last week, all because she was asked to purchase a $1 reusable bag to make carrying all her items easier.The woman had been shopping at arts and crafts store Michael s in Chicago on Thanksgiving Eve, when the offer to buy the bag apparently put her over the edge.
Claiming that she was being discriminated against because she was white, the unidentified shopper exploded with rage and began shouting: I voted for Trump so there.
You want to kick me out for that?
And look who won.
Her rant continued as she started to attack the African American employees which prompted Jessie Grady, another customer, to pull out her cell phone and start recording the verbal abuse.
Grady said the Trump-loving woman went into a 30-minute racist rant complete with yelling and cursing and repeated references to the fact that both employees were African-American.
Eventually, the enraged shopper realized she was being recorded and also became confrontational with Grady.
She got closer to Grady and said:Then, the woman accused Grady s baby of stealing before returning to her original plan, attacking the store s black employees.
She yelled: You re a liar, I don t care, because I m a consumer.
I m a customer.
This is ten minutes of the shopper s meltdown, and an absolute sorry excuse for an American.
See for yourself:Since this video has been uploaded to YouTube, it has gone viral.
Grady said the reason she recorded the video was protect the store s employees and keep them from getting in trouble for no reason because the customer is always right.
Grady was so disgusted by this shopper s actions that she started a GoFundMe campaign to help the store manager who suffered most of the attack by this racist.
She said: I d like to do something to try to make it up to the employee who was the main target of this racist attack.
I d like to show her that many people are horrified by how this woman treated her, and that we stand with her and appreciate her hard work.
She inspired me because despite the hateful words that were being hurled in her direction, she stood in that entrance way calm and unmoving to protect her staff and customers In the current climate I believe it s very important that we go out of our way to treat each other with dignity, kindness and politeness, and that we stand up for each other when we see people being mistreated.
The GoFundMe account has already reached a few thousand dollars, but there is no amount of money that can erase abuse and racism.
These attacks are becoming more and more common, as we re seeing Trump supporters embracing their white privilege and feeling less inhibited to express blatant racism.
The Trump effect is ruining our country, and quickly.Featured image via screenshots