It s no secret that the Palin family are fans of drunken hijinks after a well-publicized drunken birthday brawl in 2014.
Shortly after it became news that Sarah can see a Donald Trump presidency from her house, more news surfaced something regarding one of her children.
No, it has nothing to do with Bristol for once.
According to Gawker, Track Palin, who reportedly broke his ribs during the aforementioned drunken brawl, faces weapons and assault charges after he drunkenly interfered with a report of domestic violence.According to online records, Track was charged on Sunday with assault, interfering with a report of domestic violence, and possession of a weapon while intoxicated.It is unclear who was filing the domestic violence report when the armed and drunk Palin got violent with an unnamed female, but we can be certain more details will surface.
For now, Wasilla police said in a statement: An investigation revealed Track Palin had committed a domestic violence assault on a female, interfered with her ability to report a crime of domestic violence, and possessed a firearm while intoxicated.
Palin s ex-wife, Britta Hanson, says she was not involved in the incident.
The unidentified victim was found with bruising and swelling around her left eye and complained of pain in her right knee.At one point, Track was holding onto a gun, yelling do you think I m a p y?
and do you think I won t do it?
apparently threatening to kill himself.
[The woman] was concerned he would shoot himself and ran outside and around the house, according to reports.
She ultimately hid under a bed.On Tuesday, Sarah Palin announced that she is endorsing Donald Trump for President.
I am greatly honored to receive Sarah s endorsement, Trump said in a statement following Palin s decision to endorse him.
She is a friend, and a high-quality person whom I have great respect for.
I am proud to have her support.
Fortunately for Palin, Trump likely won t care about something like a little domestic violence, given his own track record.Palin was held without bail until his arraignment on Tuesday, police say.It s so nice to see family values people show exactly who they really are.
Unfortunately, this will do nothing to change how conservatives feel about the Palins, their opinions, or even about those who eagerly gobble up their endorsements.
They believe in Jesus, after all, and that s enough to convince most conservatives to look past quite literally anything.Featured image via People