Fox News is literally pretending that they treated President Obama with nothing but respect.The reality, however, is the complete opposite as Fox News and Republicans spent eight years calling President Obama an illegitimate president and working against him to make him fail.They rejected President Obama s call for unity from the very beginning, questioned his citizenship, obstructed, demonized, and whined.Fox News served as the Republican s anti-Obama propaganda machine for all eight years.But now that Donald Trump is being given the same treatment across the country, Fox News is throwing a hissy fit about it.They expect everyone across the country to bow down and kiss Trump s ass and anyone who doesn t do so is branded as a traitor or un-American.It s hypocrisy of the highest order.That s why the Huffington Post put together a wonderful little video showcasing Fox News hosts flip-flopping repeatedly.
It s the kind of thing that Jon Stewart would have done if he had never retired from the Daily Show.The video shows hosts like Sean Hannity, Jeanine Pirro, and Bill O Reilly complaining about anti-Trump protesters complete with flashbacks of all three being vehemently anti-Obama.
Hannity even uses the term not my president to express his hatred of Obama.Here s the video via Huffington Post.Fox News is full of hypocrites.
They are whining about the anti-Trump movement and ignoring the fact that conservatives did even worse to President Obama over eight years.When President Obama extended his hand Fox News slapped it away and denounced him as illegitimate.
They pushed conspiracy theories.
They called him a tyrant.
They allied with Republicans to make President Obama fail and proceeded to try and sabotage him at every turn.
They created an atmosphere of hate and ignorance that allowed Donald Trump and his deplorable supporters to rise.
And now they have the gall to bitch about protests against that hatred.Donald Trump does not deserve the respect or unity he has only recently begun calling for.
If anything, he deserves to be treated the same way conservatives treated President Obama for eight years.
Fox and their conservative audience should have practiced then what they are preaching now, because turnabout is fair play and unlike Obama, Trump is a true threat to our democracy and Constitution.Featured image via screenshot