When the bombshell dossier exposing Donald Trump s shady ties to Russia became public, it was easy to question the validity of the document.
Although the golden shower accusation was the least important detail of the report, it certainly caught the attention of the public and was enough to make just about anyone say no way this can be legit.
But according to CNN, U.S. intelligence agencies have been investigating the dossier and the document is gaining credibility because some of the details it contains are actually checking out.CNN reports:Law enforcement and U.S. intelligence agencies are continuing their investigation, but they say the corroboration of intercepted communications gives them a greater confidence in the dossier s validity.Naturally, Trump s team is already screaming fake news again.
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told CNN, We continue to be disgusted by CNN s fake news reporting.
He then called back to add this:This is more fake news.
It is about time CNN focused on the success the President has had bringing back jobs, protecting the nation, and strengthening relationships with Japan and other nations.
The President won the election because of his vision and message for the nation.Intelligence officials emphasized that the conversations they intercepted were between foreign nationals and came from routine information gathering.
They also noted that some of the communications were from people who were known to be heavily involved in digging up dirt on Hillary Clinton to help Trump.U.S.
intelligence agencies have still not come to any final conclusions regarding whether or not Russia really has any compromising information on Trump that they can use to blackmail him.
They have also not confirmed any of the more salacious claims made in the dossier.
In other words, they still don t know if Trump paid Russian prostitutes to drain the swamp for him.You see more on this here, via The Young Turks:.
@CNN is reporting that an investigation into the Pee-gate dossier is gaining credibility.
pic.twitter.com/j6CEHZJktN The Young Turks (@TheYoungTurks) February 11, 2017Featured image via Andrew Harrer Pool/Getty Images