Mitt Romney watched his dream of becoming president fly right out the window in 2012 when he made the infamous 47 percent of Americans are looking for a handout speech at a private fundraiser that was secretly recorded and released to the public.
Romney alienated himself from half the American population in one fell swoop, handing an electoral landslide to President Obama.
He re-surfaced in 2015 with a quick stint pre-campaign test, only to decide he wouldn t run again.in late January of this year, however, Mittens made sure his FEC paperwork was in order to be listed as a candidate for the election.
While most presume he did what he had to to secure a spot on the ballot in case he gets nominated at a brokered GOP convention, there could be far more ominous issues with Mitt Romney and his political future.The Republican party is in a panic.
Donald Trump is looking like he will be able to secure the nomination with more than 50 percent of the delegates, making a brokered convention an impossibility.
Trump would at that point be the Republican nominee for president this November, which would fracture the GOP into an unrecognizable shadow of its former self.
So what would the plan be at that point?
To steal the election from under the noses of the American people and hand it to his own running mate, Paul Ryan, to decide with a vote in the House of Representatives.It s not really that complicated, either.
According to the 12th Amendment, if no candidate reaches the number of electoral votes necessary to secure the presidency, a ballot will be cast by the House to decide the victor.
If the GOP runs Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan against their own candidate as a third party choice, chances are that outcome could come to pass.
The morons lining up to vote for Trump aren t the typical party base.
While he has the fringe vote locked up, as well as the independent low-information voter, he ll never take the Koch-loving regulars away.
Those people would rather vote for Hillary Clinton and take their chances on 2020 than watch Trump destroy their party and our country.So then, in an all-out battle between Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton and Mitt Romney, all the Republicans have to do is squeeze out enough votes from two candidates to keep Clinton under the 270 electoral votes needed to be elected.
While that scenario seems crazy and unlikely, it has happened before.
With enough voter obstruction and cleverly played lawsuits, we could witness a travesty that would give the Republicans control of all three branches of government, effectively destroying our country as we know it.Republicans are no good at winning elections fair and square.
If they had to rely on the people to elect them, they would have died 20 years ago.
People think they are refusing to consider a Supreme Court justice just because Obama is the nominating president.
While that may be partially true, it also plays into the strategy of giving the vote to the House.
If the Republicans contest enough results in blue states where conservative judges sit on federal benches, appeals to SCOTUS would end in 4-4 ties, leaving the lower court rulings in effect.The whole thing is an archaic constitutional mess that should have been addressed and done away with decades ago, but alas, it s here for this election cycle and it could jump up and bite our country where the sun refuses to shine.Featured image by Gage Skidmore