Paul Ryan and the Republican leadership are rolling out plans to keep wages stagnant in America for the foreseeable future.
A $23 billion cut is aimed at eliminating food benefits through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to people on unemployment who are either in school or job training.
It s an age-old GOP tactic.
Eliminate the help for people who are looking to do better and they are forced out of school or training and into minimum wage jobs.Once they get there, the Republicans can claim they re teenagers living at home for free and it s their own fault for settling for a minimum wage job when all they have to do is go back to school or get some training.
And the cycle continues.
According to Roll Call:Republican leaders have proposed more than $23 billion in food stamp cuts in a budget plan that could be brought to the House floor in the next two weeks, several sources say.The proposed changes in the food stamp, or Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, include the end of waivers that allow some adults to receive assistance for a limited amount of time, while they are in school, or training for a job.$23 billion in cuts to food for people.
Is there nowhere else we could look for $23 billion dollars?
How over budget is that fighter jet program again?
We re not talking about handing people cash outside a liquor store here; we re talking about food.
All the BS about fraud and dependence and still one in four children in this country struggle with food.
Republicans have been after the food stamp program for no reason other than to keep people as desperate as possible.Just imagine if Donald Trump is elected with a Republican majority in Congress.
Food will be distributed to the poor in the streets in the form of bags of flour and rice and maybe some milk and whey to make cheese.
OK, maybe that s a little extreme.
There won t be any free food.
Certainly in a Trumptopian society, the poor will stay out of sight where they belong.Featured image from foodsecuritychallenge.com