It appears the genius businessman Donald Trump will have another failure on his hands.
While the mainstream media is focusing (and rightly so) on his vile comments aimed at a gold star family, his love affair with nuclear warheads, a crying baby at a Virginia rally, and his upcoming intervention, they are quiet about another story brewing.Trump Taj Mahal and Casino will be closing down, indefinitely, just after Labor Day as a union strike by members of Unite-HERE against the casino enters its 35th day.
The union has said that there are no negotiations currently in the works and there are no scheduled negations for the future.In September 2014, a bankruptcy court allowed the hotel owners, Trump Entertainment Resorts, to eliminate the union members health insurance and pension plans.
Trump and his business buddies contended that if the union members (which equated to roughly 1,000 members) did not meet those demands, the hotel would be closed.
In December of the same year, the union and Trump reached an agreement and the hotel remained open, but it was also discovered that the hotel wasn t on the verge of closing because of the union, but because it did not receive the state and local tax breaks it was hoping for.Well the unions rightfully went on strike, starting on July 1, to protest against the sheer greed of Trump and his allies.
It should be noted that Trump no longer owns or has a personal stake in the Taj Mahal since February 2016, giving up his power over the hotel and casino a mere five months ago.
The hotel now belongs to Carl Icahn, a personal friend of the presidential candidate, who bailed out Trump Entertainment Resorts from bankruptcy and this is the guy Trump will make Treasury Secretary should he win the presidency.Sounds like a real winner.It should also be noted that the shady business deals coming out of the Taj Mahal that the U.S. Department of the Treasury said was significant and long-standing money laundering violations which would allow exploitation from criminals, terrorists, and other bad actors.
For that, they were given a $10 million civil fine.This hotel has been nothing but a headache for everyone who has ever been involved with it, Trump himself included.
It was one of his bankruptcies, and the contractors who worked to make it all happen were stiffed.
The stockholders were stiffed.
The staff were stiffed.Trump s buddy Icahn, who s worth $17 billion, couldn t even keep it afloat.
Let that sink in.Featured image via Jessica Kourkounis/Getty Images