The world is now reporting zero cases of ebola, the deadly virus that killed thousands in Africa.
That good news comes after a sustained global relief effort led by President Obama and the American military, scientists and relief workers.President Obama marked the occasion in a Twitter post, pointing out that the moment is a Great example of what we can achieve when we lead.
Before I start, wanted to share this.
Liberia is now Ebola-free.
Great example of what we can achieve when we lead.
pic.twitter.com/qjVcwg8tIi President Obama (@POTUS) January 14, 2016From the World Health Organization report cited by the President:No confirmed cases of Ebola virus disease (EVD) were reported in the week to 3 January.
On 29 December, WHO declared that human-to-human transmission of Ebola virus has ended in Guinea, after the completion of 42 days with zero cases since the last person confirmed to have EVD received a second consecutive negative blood test for Ebola virus RNA.
Guinea has now entered a 90-day period of heightened surveillance.
Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone have all now succeeded in interrupting human-to-human transmission linked to the original outbreak in West Africa.Yet Obama had to swim against the tide of right-wing scaremongering and media sensationalism in order to accomplish this vital task.In September 2014, Obama deployed 3,000 American troops to West Africa to help with efforts there to fight the spread of the disease.
He also appointed an Ebola czar to coordinate the response, along with existing leadership from the Centers for Disease Control and other elements of the U.S. government.As Obama did this, the right was in the middle of hysterics.
They were calling for the borders to be shut down, Chris Christie was unnecessarily quarantining a nurse, and Fox News figures were seriously claiming that Obama wanted an Ebola outbreak in America.
Another Fox News talking head said Obama welcomed Ebola because his affinities are with Africa.At the same time, the more mainstream press was whipping itself into a frenzy, devoting hours and hours to what should be done if there was an Ebola outbreak in America despite the hundreds of safeguards in place from medical professionals.
CNN hyped the non-problem more than even MSNBC and Fox.Curiously, this mainstream Ebola hype consisted of about 1,000 segments in the four weeks before the 2014 midterm elections, when Republicans were often campaigning on Ebola hype against Democrats, then fell off after the GOP increased its Congressional seats.
Convenient.Still, President Obama refused to give into the fear and frankly hysterically overwrought madness embraced by the right and the media.
As a result, a killer outbreak is in full retreat.
Ebola hasn t been eradicated, but in all likelihood this latest outbreak is over and Barack Obama stepped up to the plate and led yet another successful fight.Featured image via YouTube