While most of us are still in a state of shock over the results of the 2016 election, the women of The View tried to reassure Americans and help them process the fact that we are now facing a Donald Trump presidency.While many Americans like to make arguments about policy and Hillary Clinton s emails, co-host Joy Behar wasted no time in pinpointing what one of the major issues of this election were.
Behar went right to the root of the problem and declared that without a doubt, gender had played a huge role in how this election played out.Whoopi Goldberg began the conversation by voicing her concerns about Trump, stating that his misogyny and racism truly make him a terrifying choice for America.
She said: I have to say, given the bigger picture of what Donald Trump represents, it is not so comfortable for me because not only does he now threaten how things are going to be done with kids of color, with women s rights, with my right to decide what is right for my body, not what somebody else says what is right.
Goldberg wondered whether we are a nation who believes in people s rights as they are Constitutionally guaranteed.
Behar responded with a brutal truthbomb, making reference to the fact that even in the year 2016, sexism allows less qualified men (or in this case, completely UNqualified men) to come out ahead of women who are over-qualified.
Behar said: You know what I learned.
I learned that, as usual men can get away with anything and women can get away with nothing.
That s what I learned.
He was unbelievably decisive, bigoted, racist, homophobic, against handicapped people, against John McCain, and yet he won.
She made some mistakes, but not like that.
Exactly.
There is no other plausible reason why a reality televison star with zero political experience and several lawsuits (including fraud and sexual assault cases) against him should have been able to win a presidential election over a former Secretary of State who has given the last several decades of her live to serving this country.You can watch Behar speak the truth below:This election showed America that we are far from the post-racial society we thought we were, and that sexism is more than alive and well today.
It s going to be an intense next four years, but we must never stop fighting for what s right.Featured image via screenshots