Just two weeks after Republicans officially named Donald Trump as their nominee, they are already discussing how to replace him.
Every day, his campaign becomes even more of a disaster.
Hell, on just Tuesday afternoon he managed to enrage the GOP by refusing to endorse Paul Ryan and John McCain in their bids for reelection, continually insulted the family of a deceased soldier, made a huge joke of the Purple Heart, and kicked a crying baby out of one of his campaign rallies.According to Jon Karl, the chief White House correspondent for ABC News, GOP officials are now worrying that Trump may drop out of the race and are trying to figure out how to go about replacing him if he should decide to quit.
Karl reported: This is absolutely unprecedented.
First of all, I am told RNC chairman Reince Priebus is furious, that he has had multiple discussions with Trump telling him he needs to drastically change course.
But here s the news, I am told senior officials at the party are actively exploring what would happen if Trump dropped out, how to replace him on the ballot.
Karl noted that Trump cannot be forced out now that he has been officially named as the party s nominee, but he could solve the problem for them by dropping out all on his own.
He would have to go out voluntarily, then it would be the 168 members of the RNC, through a complicated process, that would pick a new candidate, Karl said.
It would have to happen by early September.
George Stephanopoulos, host of Good Morning America, was stunned and asked if that was actually a possibility.
Karl responded: He is so unpredictable right now, they are so unable to control his message, that they just don t know and clearly think it is a possibility, which is why they re looking at these rules.
Regardless, the big-mouthed billionaire has managed to stay withing shouting distance of Hillary Clinton, which has caused the GOP to become even more enraged at his constant blunders.
Karl continued: I have to say the frustration is especially deep because they believe that Hillary Clinton looks vulnerable, exactly as (ABC News political analyst) Matthew (Dowd) said, and had a bad few days, the DNC has gone through a whole shake-up.
She misstated what that director said about her emails.
One top official told me if Trump had gone on vacation for the past two weeks, he would be in the lead.
But, yes, he can still raise money and still has support among the Republican rank-and-file.
The GOP is shaking in their boots now, and with good reason.
Let s continue to watch the implosion unfold.Featured image via John Moore/Getty Images