Bigoted North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory is going to be nothing more than a footnote in history who everyone forgets about as far as Henry Rollins is concerned.In a column for LA Weekly, the singer, actor, and television presenter known for hosting programs on the History Channel wrote about how the Republican governor will be little remembered after this shameful time in North Carolina comes to an end.
It seems like a long way to go to please a handful of hicks, but obviously the governor was losing sleep over all those poor homophobes shaking in their boots as to who is in the stall next to them, and he took action, Rollins wrote.The ink was not even dry on the anti-LGBT bill McCrory signed into law before corporations, activists, and entertainers began hammering the state for legalizing discrimination.Paypal has cancelled a project in the state that would have created hundreds of jobs.
The NBA is considering pulling the All-Star game out of Charlotte.
Bruce Springsteen, Ringo Starr, and several other entertainers have cancelled performances in North Carolina in protest of the law.
And the state faces losing millions of dollars that flows into the state from the federal government.
All of this is costing the state dearly as Republicans continue to refuse to repeal the discriminatory law.HB2 allows business owners to discriminate against LGBT customers and employees and they can hide behind their Bibles and scream religious freedom to do so.Rollins also detests the bigoted law and warned McCrory that people will want to forget his legacy and that he ever existed for the way he has embarrassed North Carolina during his tenure as governor.
The truth is that no one cares what his name is, Rollins continued.
He will be dimly remembered as the asshole who signed that f*cked-up bill that embarrassed the majority of North Carolinians.
If McCrory eventually caves and tries to repeal it, everyone will know it s because he values money over his homophobia, which he has poorly disguised as moral rectitude and common sense.
Either way he s f*cked.
Rollins also hilariously smacked down North Carolina GOP Rep. Mark Walker for whining about Bruce Springsteen cancelling the concert.
Punching himself in the dick, North Carolina Congressman Mark Walker described Springsteen as known to be on the radical left, then generously added, He s got every right to be so, but considers Springsteen s cancellation a bully tactic.
In a sad attempt to show how with it he is, Walker quipped, We ve got other artists coming soon Def Leppard, Justin Bieber.
The congressman added, I ve never been a Bieber fan, but I might have to go.
Maybe artists who weren t born to run deserve a little bit more support.
Do they hand out free bags of dumbfuck at red lights in N.C.?
Mic.
Dropped.Republicans seriously need to give up their effort to legalize bigotry in this country under the guise of religious liberty because it is clearly backfiring.Featured image via Wikimedia