Once again, conservatives have gone above and beyond to prove that quite literally anything will send them into a racist tirade against the President of the United States.On Mother s Day, Fox News posted photos on Facebook of a gorilla who had recently given birth unexpectedly.
The pregnancy was a bit of a shock to the staff at Prague Zoo, who say they had given up hope that Shinda, the 24-year-old primate, would ever have a baby.
The gorilla had experienced numerous miscarriages, so staff simply assumed she was overweight.
But late last month, Shinda gave birth successfully.
After suffering several miscarriages, Shinda was expected to remain childless, Fox News posted.
But the 24-year-old gorilla surprised everyone at the Prague Zoo in April when she gave birth to a healthy baby!
Almost immediately the nigh-predictable screeching began, with Fox News fans reciting effortlessly their favorite lines, like If Obama had a son.
Others decided that their hateful screeds should be directed at Michelle and Malia Obama.
Unfortunately, this is the sort of thing sane people are forced to tolerate.
Recently, upon hearing that Malia Obama had gotten into Harvard, the Stupid Part of America spewed their hatred in a similar manner.
Fox News fans swooped in, calling her a n*gger, an affirmative action parasite, and suggesting that Little Ape (that s their cute little nickname for her) go to college in Africa.
In December, Fox News posted a photo of an orangutan in a Santa hat.
You can guess what happened.It s easy to be shocked by Donald Trump s popularity.
But the secret of his appeal his racism, his narcissism, his Islamophobic hate speech, the (I assume by now) gold-plated, 1,000-foot wall with mounted machine guns every 27 1/2 feet and f*cking lazers, and the fact that he probably wants to f*ck his own daughter is equally simple.
He has a built-in audience.For years, Fox News has been catering to the very worst in society.
For years, they have been shaping the opinion of the distressingly large percentage of Americans who are unable to use a fork without adult supervision, and for years they have been perpetuating lie after lie after lie after lie after lie after lie after lie after lie after lie after lie after lie about President Obama.Fox News built Donald Trump s audience for him, and he harnessed that hate.
It s easy to look at this and say so what, but remember: these people will be voting in November.
Be sure to head to the polls, because anyone they would put in office could not possibly be good for America.Featured Image via screengrab