Back in 2012, getting then-Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney to show his back tax returns was like pulling teeth.
He knew that if he showed his returns he would not only be displaying how much he truly makes, but he would be revealing how much he actually pays in taxes.
Now, Romney has decided to go after present-day Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump for the very same reason.Romney seems to be legitimately concerned that there may be some sort of bombshell hidden within Trump s taxes that will show something the American people won t like at all.While appearing on Fox News with Neil Cavuto, Romney said: I d like to see a number of things from the candidates, not just their positions on issues, in some detail.
And some candidates are more thorough in laying out what they re going to do than others.
But I d also like to see their back taxes.
I d like to see where they filed their taxes in the last several years.
I m not talking about their taxes this year.
I m talking about the taxes that have already been filed with the IRS.
And Donald Trump and Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz have not shown us their back taxes.
You know, this was an issue in my campaign.They were all over me for my taxes, it became a big issue.
But I put my taxes out in January of 2012.
And that gave people a chance to digest it and decide whether I was going to be the nominee or not.
If in fact Donald Trump s taxes or Marco Rubio s or Ted Cruz s have some real problems in there, let s get them out there and see them.
But I think it s pretty clear that given Donald Trump s dodging and weaving and delay, I think the last time he was asked about his taxes he said, well, it s going to be a month.
Look, people have a right to know if there s a problem in those taxes before they decide.
Romney also said: We have good reason to believe that there s a bombshell in Donald Trump s taxes Either he s not anywhere near as wealthy as he says he is, or he hasn t been paying taxes we would expect him to pay or perhaps he hasn t been giving money to vets or to the disabled like he s been telling us he s been doing.
Now, besides just accusing Trump of random things, let s think about this for a second.
Is Romney actually concerned about what s in Trump s taxes, or is he just trying to do to Trump what was done to him?
Maybe it s some sort of sweet revenge for him.
However you look at it, Romney looks like a giant walking and talking hypocrite, and one of the first to point that out was none other than Trump himself.Mitt Romney,who totally blew an election that should have been won and whose tax returns made him look like a fool, is now playing tough guy Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 24, 2016He s not wrong.
That does seem to be exactly what he s doing.Either way, Trump should make his finances transparent to the American voting public so they can judge for themselves if they approve of the way Trump handles his finances, but Romney, especially on this issue, should probably keep his mouth shut.
He s the LAST person who should be going after anybody on taxes.Watch here:Featured image via Screen capture Fox News