Republicans repeatedly tell us our schools would be safer if we put guns in the hands of teachers so they can defend our precious little snowflakes from any and all threats.
But sometimes, you have to wonder what would have happened had a gun been introduced to a situation especially if the threat in question is the educator the GOP wants to arm.Mary Hastings, a 63-year-old teacher at Ozen High School in Texas, was arrested for assault Friday after horrifying video surfaced showing her beating an African-American student.
Hastings, who is white, can be seen (apparently) accusing the student of interfering with another student s graduation.
She then calls the boy idiot ass as she throws the unnamed (and most importantly, noncombative) African-American student s papers off of his desk and hits him in the head repeatedly.
When he asks why she did that, she mocks him because that s apparently what adults do these days.Hastings was removed from the classroom and placed on paid administrative leave.
She was released on $2,500 bond and slapped with a misdemeanor assault charge.
In a statement, Beaumont Independent School District s Special Assistant to the Superintendent, Nakisha Burns, explained that the teacher would be terminated and vowed that such abuse would not be tolerated:The Beaumont Independent School District can confirm that an Ozen High School teacher was arrested today for physically assaulting a student.
The conduct was substantiated by video footage viewed by BISD police and administration.
The District is committed to providing a safe and secure environment for our students.
BISD does not condone employees abusing any child and will not tolerate such conduct.
The teacher was immediately removed from the classroom and placed on administrative leave pending action on her contract.If this is the sort of person the GOP wants to arm, it is certainly a chilling thought.
What would have happened, for instance, if she had a gun in her desk and perceived him as a threat?
Watch the attack below:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCxZnMuQHA4Featured image via screengrab