Adam Kredo of WFB asks the question we all want the answer to: The fact that this information subsequently leaked to the press, I think raises even more questions about why a U.N ambassador over in Turtle Bay needs to unmask.
Samantha Power is a longtime Obama loyalist but her husband might be the key to all of this (see below).Power is believed to have made hundreds of unmasking requests to identify individuals named in classified intelligence community reports related to Trump and his presidential transition team, according to multiple sources who said the behavior is unprecedented for an official in her position, according to the Washington Free Beacon.Hannity asked Kredo how Power would ever have the authority to make the unmasking requests, and then asked whether this has ever happened previously to his knowledge.
No, it s truly unprecedented, Kredo said.
It s certainly odd, and I think the House Intelligence Committee, rightfully so, has subpoenaed her to find out what is going on here.
Look, it s hundreds of unmasking requests in just the final year of the Obama administration.
WE VE FOLLOWED THE QUEEN OF GEORGE SOROS AND HERE S WHAT WE KNOW:In 2005 06, Power worked as a foreign policy fellow in the office of U.S.
Senator Barack Obama.In a 2007 interview, Power said that America s relationship with Israel has often led foreign policy decision-makers to defer reflexively to Israeli security assessments, and to replicate Israeli tactics The United States, she explained, had brought terrorist attacks upon itself by aping Israel s violations of human rights.Power has had her fair share of controversy, specifically after she was forced to resign from the president s 2008 campaign following negative remarks she made about Hillary Clinton.In an interview with The Scotsman during the heat of the 2008 presidential race, Power called Clinton a monster.
Power was soon back in with the Obama camp.
Her husband is Obama s former Regulatory Czar Cass Sunstein.SUNSTEIN IS ONE SCARY GUY WHO WANTED GOVERNMENT TO INTRUDE ON YOUR PRIVACY:SALON reported:Cass Sunstein has long been one of Barack Obama s closest confidants.
Often mentioned as a likely Obama nominee to the Supreme Court, Sunstein is Obama s head of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs where, among other things, he is responsible for overseeing policies relating to privacy, information quality, and statistical programs.
In 2008, while at Harvard Law School, Sunstein co-wrote a truly pernicious paper proposing that the U.S. Government employ teams of covert agents and pseudo- independent advocates to cognitively infiltrate online groups and websites as well as other activist groups which advocate views that Sunstein deems false conspiracy theories about the Government.
This would be designed to increase citizens faith in government officials and undermine the credibility of conspiracists.
The paper s abstract can be read, and the full paper downloaded, here.Sunstein advocates that the Government s stealth infiltration should be accomplished by sending covert agents into chat rooms, online social networks, or even real-space groups.
He also proposes that the Government make secret payments to so-called independent credible voices to bolster the Government s messaging (on the ground that those who don t believe government sources will be more inclined to listen to those who appear independent while secretly acting on behalf of the Government).
This program would target those advocating false conspiracy theories, which they define to mean: an attempt to explain an event or practice by reference to the machinations of powerful people, who have also managed to conceal their role.
Read more: WFB