When Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell took a knee during the national anthem before their game against the Texas Rangers, the Oakland Athletics immediately tweeeted out their support for him.
To date, Maxwell is the only MLB player who has chosen to disrespect our flag as a way to help BLM push an anti-cop movement.Here is the Oakland A s response to Bruce Maxwell kneeling during our nation s national anthem:pic.twitter.com/EHXwg8Zpax A's, But Spooky (@Athletics) September 24, 2017Last week, Maxwell was caught lying about being denied service at a local restaurant after kneeling for the anthem.FOX News Oakland A s catcher Bruce Maxwell, 26, claimed this week that a waiter in his Alabama hometown of Huntsville refused him service after identifying him as the MLB player who took the knee during The Star Spangled Banner last month only the waiter has a very different version of events and he told Fox News that was far from what went down.
He is outright lying.
This is really upsetting as he was given full service, I didn t even know who Bruce Maxwell was, Matt Henry, a 42-year-old waiter at Keegan s Public House, told Fox News.
This all started because I carded his friend who wanted to order a beer.
According to Henry, an Alabama native, Maxwell was dining with local Democratic councilman Devyn Keith and another friend who produced an expired ID, and the server refused to serve him a drink which upset the friend, who followed him into the kitchen.
He asked me, Don t you know who Bruce Maxwell is?
, and told me I was making everyone feel uncomfortable.
Nobody was even paying attention to them, Henry claimed.
I didn t know anything about him or the kneeling.
All I know is a friend of mine 15 years ago lost his job for serving someone a drink who happened to be underage, so if anyone looks under 30, I m going to card them.
The waiter said that the councilman then complained to the restaurant s manager about Maxwell being uncomfortable, and the manager simply swapped me to another table, and that it was no big deal.
The restaurant manager on duty that day, Anne Whalen who requested the restaurant name not be used without permission from the owner also told Fox News that Maxwell s story being portrayed in the media could not be further from the truth.
Matt came to me and told me that a guy wanted a beer but his ID was not valid and I told him he absolutely could not give it to him, we can go to jail for that in the state of Alabama, the manager said.
It was his friend causing all the fuss, none of us even knew who this baseball player was.
I told him I had no idea who he was going on about, she said.
Eventually Matt just asked if we could put another server on the table so I did.
I can t believe the story.
Today, it was announced that Maxwell was arrested in Arizona after a food delivery person told authorities that he pointed a gun at her.TMZ Scottsdale PD tells us Maxwell, 26, was arrested Saturday at 6:08 PM at his Scottsdale, AZ home.
Cops say the alleged victim was a female food delivery driver who told them Maxwell pointed a gun at her.It s unclear what led up to the incident.SPD says Maxwell was booked on charges of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon and disorderly conduct.Cops say he is in custody and awaiting his initial appearance in front of a judge.