With mainstream media and establishment politicians stacked against him from the moment he announced his run for the presidency, Donald J. Trump has been in an ongoing pitched battle to communicate his plans and his eventual successes to Americans.
Through public rallies and social media, he has managed to bypass the traditional information gatekeepers and has spoken directly to the people.Yet, Americans are subjected to a relentless drumbeat from the Democratic Party, amplified by virtually the entire establishment press, that Trump is not only undisciplined, unfit for office and possibly racist, but that embarrassingly little has been accomplished by the Trump administration.But we Deplorables know better When Dana Kamide made this pro-Trump video last year, it was an instant hit.
The hilarious video reminded Americans of why we re so blessed to have President Trump as our President.
To date, the It s The Most Wonderful Time Of The Year viral video has been seen over 5.6 million times.
This Christmas, let s all count our blessings and remember to be thankful for the bullet we dodged in 2016.
Enjoy WND And while he has befuddled and disappointed some with major promises such as Obamacare repeal and a border wall unfulfilled or put on the backburner the stunning reality is this: Donald Trump has amassed a long and remarkable list of actions and accomplishments that will surprise average Americans, even those who support the president and consider themselves well-informed politically.Below, is an accounting of the truly significant achievements of the first eight months of the Trump presidency.
The accomplishments are all the more noteworthy as they have been carried out in an environment of unrelenting negativity on the part of not only the Democrats and almost the entire news media, but the Beltway establishment itself, the entire donor class, the Deep State, and even many Republicans wedded to the D.C. swamp.
DECEMBERRegulatory reform: President Trump announced Dec. 14 his administration has far exceeded its promise to eliminate regulations at a 2:1 ratio and impose no lifetime net regulatory costs.
In total, agencies issued 67 deregulatory actions while imposing only three new regulatory actions, a ratio of 22:1.
Federal agencies also achieved $8.1 billion in lifetime net regulatory cost savings, the equivalent of $570 million per year.
Jobs: Some 228,000 new jobs were created in November, highlighting the strongest U.S. labor market since the turn of the century.
The government also reported Dec. 8 that unemployment was unchanged at 4.1 percent, but that s still nearly a 17-year low.
Military: The Trump administration asked a federal court Dec. 7 for an emergency stay to delay a court order to begin opening the military to transgender recruits by Jan. 1.
Israel: While the previous three U.S. presidents promised during their election campaigns to recognize Jerusalem as Israel s capital, President Trump on Dec. 6 became the first to follow through.
In his official order, Trump also ordered the U.S. Embassy to be moved to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu responded: President Donald Trump, thank you for today s historic decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel s capital.
The Jewish people and the Jewish state will be forever grateful.
Immigration: The Department of Homeland Security released figures Dec. 4 showing Trump is delivering on his pledge to more strictly control immigration and deter would-be border-crossers.
Border Patrol arrests dropped to a 45-year low in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, down 25 percent from a year earlier.
ICE said the number of people apprehended away from the border jumped 25 percent this fiscal year.
The increase is 37 percent after Trump s inauguration compared to the same period the year before.
States rights: President Trump signed two executive orders Dec. 4 that gave back about 2 million acres of land to the state of Utah by modifying executive orders by President Obama.
Arguing the Antiquities Act requires that any reservation of land as part of a monument be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects of historic or scientific interest to be protected, Trump reduced the federal government s control of the Bear s Ear National Monument to just 201,876 acres, pointing out that the important objects of scientific or historic interest described described in Obama s proclamation are protected under existing laws and agency management designations.
He also reduced the Grand Staircase National Monument in Utah from nearly 1.9 million acres to about 1 million.
Immigration: Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced Dec. 3 the Trump administration is withdrawing from the Global Compact on Migration, arguing the pact would undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration laws and secure our borders.
Tillerson made the announcement just before the opening of a global conference on migration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.
Tax reform: Propelled by the engagement of President Trump, the Senate on Dec. 1 passed the biggest rewrite of the nation s tax system since 1986, reducing rates for businesses and individuals.
The Republican-led House passed a similar bill in November.
The two chambers of Congress will negotiate a reconciliation of the two bills that they expect to put on the president s desk before the end of the year.
Health care: The Senate tax-reform bill passed Dec. 1 eliminates Obamacare s individual mandate, the linchpin of Obama s government-controlled health-care system, which penalizes taxpayers for choosing not to buy health insurance.NOVEMBERStocks: The Dow Jones industrial average surged more than 331 points Nov. 30 to close above 24,000 for the first time in history.
Stocks were buoyed by the possibility of the Senate passing the Republican tax-reform bill championed by President Trump.
Mining: Mining increased 28.6 percent in the second quarter and was the leading contributor to growth for the nation and in the three fastest-growing states of North Dakota, Wyoming, and Texas, according to the Commerce Department s Bureau of Economic Analysis.
North Korea: In response to North Korea s buildup of nuclear weapons and missiles, the communist nation was officially designated a state sponsor of terror by the Trump administration on Nov. 20.
The Treasury Department followed up with sanctions on organizations and companies doing business with North Korea.
Regulation reform: Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced Nov. 17 the Department of Justice will cease the practice initiated by President Obama of issuing guidance memos to enact new regulations that sometimes have had the effect of changing federal laws.
Iran: Trump issued a memorandum Nov. 16 determining that the U.S. has enough petroleum coming from countries other than Iran to permit a significant reduction in the volume of petroleum and petroleum products purchased from the mullah-led nation.
China trade: During President Trump s visit to China in November, trade and investment deals worth more than $250 billion were announced that are expected to create jobs for American workers, farmers and ranchers by increasing U.S. exports to China and stimulating investment in American communities.
Government transparency: The federal government on Nov. 9 made public more than 13,000 additional documents from its files on President John F. Kennedy s assassination, under orders from President Trump.
It was the fourth released since October, when the president allowed the immediate release of 2,800 records by the National Archives.
International liberty: President Trump proclaimed Nov. 7, the 100th anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution, as the National Day for the Victims of Communism Religious liberty: The Department of Agriculture issued a guidance Nov. 6 that ensures Christians who opposed same-sex marriage would not be discriminated against for their beliefs.
Job growth: President Trump announced in the Oval Office Nov. 2 that the semiconductor manufacturing company Broadcom Limited is moving its headquarters from Singapore to the United States.
Broadcom is a Fortune 100 company that already employs more than 7,500 workers in the United States, and that number is expected to grow exponentially, with an estimated $20 billion to be spent on employees annually.
Broadcom CEO Hock E. Tan said the decision to relocate Broadcom was driven by his desire to give back to this country that has given me so much.
Government reform: EPA Director Scott Pruitt placed 66 new experts on three different EPA scientific committees who espouse more conservative views than their predecessors.
To prevent conflicts of interest, Pruitt signed a directive Oct. 31 banning scientists who receive EPA grants from serving on the agency s independent advisory boards.OCTOBERJob growth: The White House announced Oct. 25 a new drone Integration Pilot Program that will accelerate drone integration into the national airspace system.
Under the program, the Department of Transportation will enter into agreements with state, local, and tribal governments to establish innovation zones for testing complex UAS operations and to attempt different models for integrating drones into local airspace.
Calling drones a critical, fast-growing part of American aviation, increasing efficiency, productivity, and jobs, the White House said they present opportunities to enhance the safety of the American public, increase the efficiency and productivity of American industry, and create tens of thousands of new American jobs.
Government reform: Melania Trump, while embracing a more active and public schedule as first lady, is running one of the leanest East Wing operations in recent history, according to a Fox News analysis of White House personnel reports that found she has significantly reduced the number of aides on the first lady s office payroll in comparison to her predecessor, Michelle Obama.
During President Obama s first year in office, 16 people were listed working for Michelle Obama, earning a combined $1.24 million a year.
This year, just four people were listed working for Melania Trump as of June, with salaries totaling $486,700.
Obamacare: Trump signed an executive order Oct. 12 that directs three federal agencies to rewrite regulations to encourage the establishment of cheaper health plans that can be purchased across state lines and are not bound by certain Obamacare rules and regulations.
The directive would allow small-business owners, trade groups and others to join together to purchase health insurance.
The plans would not be required to include benefits such as prescription drugs.
Trump also wants to expand the sale of stopgap policies that don t cover pre-existing conditions, mental health services and other costly benefits.
Consumer optimism: U.S. consumer sentiment unexpectedly surged to a 13-year high as Americans perceptions of the economy and their own finances rebounded following several major hurricanes, a University of Michigan survey showed Oct. 13.
Iran nuclear agreement: President Trump announced Oct. 13 he will not certify the Iran nuclear deal and vowed that the U.S. would pull out unless changes are made.
He also unveiled a new strategy, the culmination of nine months of deliberation with Congress and allies, on how to best protect American security from the rogue mullah-led regime.
The plan includes denying the regime funding and any paths to a nuclear weapon and ballistic missiles.
The Department of the Treasury sanctioned more than 25 entities and individuals involved in Iran s ballistic missile program.
The U.S. also sanctioned 16 entities and individuals that have supported Iran s military and Revolutionary Guard Corps in the development of drones, fast attack boats and other military equipment.
United Nations: The United States is quitting the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
Heather Nauert, a State Department spokeswoman, announced the move will be made before the end of the year This decision was not taken lightly, and reflects U.S. concerns with mounting arrears at UNESCO, the need for fundamental reform in the organization, and continuing anti-Israel bias at UNESCO.
Homeland security: The Supreme Court dismissed a major challenge to President Trump s travel ban on majority-Muslim countries Oct. 10 because it has been replaced by a new version, sending the controversy back to the starting block.
The ruling is a victory for the Trump administration, which had asked the court to drop the case after Trump signed a proclamation Sept. 24 that replaced the temporary travel ban on six nations with a new, indefinite ban affecting eight countries.
That action made the court challenge moot, the justices ruled.
EPA reform: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt announced Oct. 9 a new set of rules that will override the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece of President Barack Obama s drive to curb global climate change.
The agency is moving to undo, delay or block more than 30 environmental rules, the largest regulatory rollback in the agency s 47-year history.
Immigration: The Trump administration submitted to Congress Oct. 8 a 70-point proposal that calls for increased border security, interior enforcement of immigration laws and a merit-based immigration system.
It includes funding and completing construction of a southern border wall, improving expedited removal of illegal aliens, protecting innocent people in sanctuary cities, ending extended-family chain migration and establishing a point-based system for green cards to protect U.S. workers and taxpayers.
Religious liberty: Attorney General Sessions on Oct. 6 issued guidance to all administrative agencies and executive departments regarding religious liberty protections in federal law in keeping with Trump s May 4 executive order.
The guidance interprets existing protections for religious liberty in federal law, identifying 20 high-level principles that administrative agencies and executive departments can put to practical use to ensure the religious freedoms of Americans are lawfully protected.
Attorney General Sessions also issued a second memorandum to the Department of Justice, directing implementation of the religious liberty guidance within the department.
Among the principles are the freedom of religion extends to persons and organizations, Americans do not give up their freedom of religion by participating in the marketplace, partaking of the public square, or interacting with government and government may not restrict acts or abstentions because of the beliefs they display.
Missile defense: The Department of Defense reprogrammed approximately $400 million for U.S. missile defense systems.
Religious liberty: The Trump administration expanded religious and moral exemptions for mandated contraceptive coverage under Obamacare.
Obama s signature legislation required that nearly all insurance plans cover abortion-inducing drugs and contraception, forcing citizens to violate sincerely held religious or moral beliefs, pay steep fines, or forgo offering or obtaining health insurance entirely.
The interim final rules note that the United States has a long history of providing conscience protections in the regulation of health care entities and individuals with objections based on religious beliefs and moral convictions.
The rule aligns with the U.S. Supreme Court s unanimous ruling protecting the Little Sisters of the Poor, which says the government cannot fine religious groups for following their faith.
Immigration: Amid strong Democratic opposition, the House Homeland Security Committee gave first approval to the broad scope of President Trump s border wall Oct. 4, clearing a bill that would authorize $10 billion in new infrastructure spending, new waivers to speed up construction, and 10,000 more border agents and officers to patrol the U.S.-Mexico line.
Space exploration: President Trump revived the National Space Council for the first time in 25 years to assist him in developing and implementing long-range strategic goals for the nation s space policy.
The pace program will refocus on human exploration and discovery.
Vice President Mike Pence, who chaired the National Space Council s Oct. 5 meeting, said the administration aims to establish a renewed American presence on the moon and from that foundation become the first nation to bring mankind to Mars.
The administration also will renew America s commitment to creating the space technology needed to protect national security.
And Pence pointed out the intelligence community reports that Russia and China are pursuing a full range of anti-satellite technology designed to threaten our U.S. military effectiveness.
Abortion: The Office of Management and Budget on Oct. 2 issued a Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) to strongly support the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R.
36), which would generally make it unlawful for any person to perform, or attempt to perform, an abortion of an unborn child after 20 weeks post-fertilization.
Protecting life: The president issued a statement Oct. 1 renewing the nation s strong commitment to promoting the health, well-being, and inherent dignity of all children and adults with Down syndrome.
The president observed there remain too many people both in the United States and throughout the world that still see Down syndrome as an excuse to ignore or discard human life.
He said Americans and their government must always be vigilant in defending and promoting the unique and special gifts of all citizens in need and should not tolerate any discrimination against them, as all people have inherent dignity.
Protecting life: The Department of Health and Human Services has published a draft of a new strategic plan that states in its introduction that life begins at conception.
The personhood of the unborn child is central to the abortion debate as even the justice who wrote the landmark Roe v. Wade opinion has acknowledged because, if established in law, it would nullify a right to abortion.
The largely overlooked HHS strategic plan for 2018-22 states the agency accomplishes its mission through programs and initiatives that cover a wide spectrum of activities, serving and protecting Americans at every stage of life, beginning at conception.
Tax reform: Trump is working with Congress to lower taxes by seven points for the middle class and lower business taxes to a 15 percent rate.SEPTEMBERLower courts: Trump is filling up lower courts with lifetime appointees.
In the estimation of Democratic official Ron Klain, a massive transformation is underway in how our fundamental rights are defined by the federal judiciary.
Klain, lamenting Trump s moves, said the president is proving wildly successful in one respect: naming youthful conservative nominees to the federal bench in record-setting numbers.
On Sept. 28, Trump announced an eighth wave of judicial candidates, with nine more names.
Canada trade: In September, the Commerce Department, siding with Boeing, slapped a 219 percent tariff on the import of Canadian-made Bombardier jets, arguing they are supported by subsidies from the governments of Canada and the U.K., creating an unfair market.
Korea trade: Trump began the process of renegotiating the United States-South Korea Free Trade Agreement in September.
Climate: In September, Trump shut down a climate-change advisory panel under the direction of NOAA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, that critics have contended was formed largely to promote President Obama s climate policies, arguing it lacked representation from those who think the empirical evidence points to human actions contributing little to global warming and that attempting to reduce it would slow the conquest of poverty around the world.
The EPA also has decided not to renew the appointments of dozens of scientists on various scientific advisory panels.
Economy: Household wealth reached a record high of $1.7 trillion in the second quarter due to rising property values and gains in financial assets, according to a Federal Reserve report.
Homeland security: In September, Trump signed an executive order to enhance vetting capabilities and processes for detecting attempted entry into the United States by terrorists or other public-security threats.
North Korea: After some 25 years of failed negotiations to contain Pyongyang s nuclear program, the communist regime s latest threatening actions were met by President Trump with a warning that military action, including a preemptive nuclear attack, would be considered.
After Trump s warnings, North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un backed off on his threat to attack the U.S. territory of Guam.
North Korea: On Sept. 7, the U.S. fully deployed the THAAD missile defense system to South Korea despite objections from Pyongyang s chief ally, China.
North Korea: In September, Trump signed an executive order significantly expanding U.S. authority to target individuals, companies and financial institutions that finance and facilitate trade with North Korea, most of which are Chinese.
Meanwhile, China s central bank has ordered banks in its massive banking system to immediately stop doing business with North Korea.
United Nations: In his first speech to the United Nations General Assembly, Trump told the global body in September, I put America first and you should do the same with your nations.
In the speech, he also explicitly denounced socialism and communism, pointing to Venezuela as an example of what happens when socialism is successfully implemented.
Immigration: President Trump, in September, rescinded Obama s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals order, which gave de facto amnesty to some 800,000 people who came to the country as children with their illegal-alien parents.
Trump delayed implementing his order for six months to give Congress time to come up with a legislative solution.
Stock markets: Through the first week of September, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had 34 record highs.
From Election Day to the Inauguration, the Dow rose more than 1,500 points.
It climbed another 2,500 points from Inauguration Day, reaching more than 22,400 in mid-September, a gain of more than $4 trillion in wealth since Trump was elected.
The Dow s spike from 19,000 to above 21,000 in just 66 days was the fastest 2,000-point rise ever.
The S&P 500 and the NASDAQ also have set all-time highs.
On Aug. 7, the Dow closed with an all-time high for the ninth day in a row, the first time the market has had a run of that length twice under one presidency.For the entire list, go to WND