Today, several Democracy Spring protesters were arrested at the US Capitol.
The protest appears to have broken the record for the number of people arrested at the US Capitol, reported Reuters.Thousands of people concerned about the widespread corruption in politics due to big money interests, voter suppression, and dysfunction in Congress participated in the protests, which began ten days ago at the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia.
Organizations such as Greenpeace, the AFL-CIO, NAACP, and the National Nurses Union were part of a coalition of organizations participating in the protests.
People are fed up with the system, they are fed up with the corruption, and we want free and fair elections, Cenk Uygur, host of the TV show Young Turks and one of the participants in the protest, told Reuters in an interview.
This is our core American right.
The fight begins today.
It doesn t mean we win today.
But in the end, we always win, Uygur said.
Progressives have never lost.
We won in civil rights, we won in women s rights, we won in gay rights, and we re going to win in getting our democracy back.
The protest organizers are pushing Congress to pass four bills: Government by the People Act, Fair Elections Now Act, the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 & Voter Empowerment Act of 2015, and the Democracy for All Amendment.
The massive sit-in protest was peaceful, but buses were brought in to transport the activists who were arrested for demonstrating.
Most media outlets have not covered the protests at all, and conservative media outlets have alleged the protests are just a re-branded version of the Occupy movement, which is false.
Democracy Spring is being organized and run by well-educated individuals from various large and well-respected progressive organizations.
Those wealthy elites who own mainstream media outlets don t want to give credence to the mass movement against corruption and the influence of corporate and wealthy interests taking over the United States government.Featured Image Courtesy of Flickr