Supposedly, Hillary Clinton picked Virginia Senator Tim Kaine to help her campaign with national security experience.
Isn t it ironic?
Here are two candidates that turn out to be bought and paid for by the Islamists!
We ve known about Hillary taking millions from the Saudis and others which is truly a conflict of interest as it relates to foreign policy.
Not to mention that Hillary s right-hand woman Huma Abedin has connections to the Muslim Brotherhood too.
Now we re hearing that Tim Kaine has been heavily involved with Islamists!
How can you trust a candidate on national security who appoints a Hamas supporter to their immigration commission and speaks at a dinner honoring a Muslim Brotherhood terror suspect?Virginia Senator Tim Kaine, has a history of embracing Islamists.
He appointed a Hamas supporter to a state immigration commission; spoke at a dinner honoring a Muslim Brotherhood terror suspect; and received donations from well-known Islamist groups.Appointing a Muslim Brotherhood Front Leader Who Supports HamasIn 2007, Kaine was the Governor of Virginia and, of all people, chose Muslim American Society (MAS) President Esam Omeish to the state s Immigration Commission.
A Muslim organization against Islamism criticized the appointment and reckless lack of vetting.Federal prosecutors said in a 2008 court filing that MAS was founded as the overt arm of the Muslim Brotherhood in America.
A Chicago Tribune investigation in 2004 confirmed it, as well as MAS crafty use of deceptive semantics to appear moderate.
Convicted terrorist and admitted U.S. Muslim Brotherhood member Abdurrahman Alamoudi testified in 2012, Everyone knows that MAS is the Muslim Brotherhood.
When a state delegate wrote a letter to then-Governor Kaine warning him that the MAS has questionable origins, a Kaine spokesperson said the charge was bigotry.Kaine obviously failed to do any kind of basic background checking in Omeish.Speaking at a Dinner Honoring Muslim Brotherhood Terror SuspectIn September 2011, Kaine spoke at a Candidates Night dinner organized by the New Dominion PAC that presented a Lifetime Achievement Award for Jamal Barzinji, who the Global Muslim Brotherhood Watch describes as a founding father of the U.S. Muslim Brotherhood.
He first came on to the FBI s radar in 1987-1988 when an informant inside the Brotherhood identified Barzinji and his associated groups as being part of a network of Brotherhood fronts to institute the Islamic Revolution in the United States.
The source said Barzinji and his colleagues were organizing political support which involves influencing both public opinion in the United States as well as the United States Government using political action front groups with no traceable ties.
The indictment of Al-Arian and his colleagues says that they would and did seek to obtain support from influential individuals, in the United States under the guise of promoting and protecting Arab rights Islamist Financial SupportBarzinji s organization, IIIT, donated $10,000 in 2011 to the New Dominion PAC, the organization that held the event honoring Barzinji that Kaine spoke at.
The Barzinji-tied New Dominion PAC donated $43,050 to Kaine s gubernatorial campaign between 2003 and 2005.
That figure doesn t even include other political recipients that assisted Kaine s campaign.The PAC has very strong ties to the Democratic Party in Virginia, with the Virginia Public Access Project tallying almost $257,000 in donations.
This likely explains why Barzinji s grandson served in Governor McAuliffe s administration and then became the Obama Administration s liaison to the Muslim-American community.The Middle East Forum s Islamist Money in Politics database shows another $4,300 donated to Kaine s Senate campaign in 2011-2012 by officials from Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) and the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR).
Another $3,500 came from Hisham Al-Talib, a leader from Barzinji s IIIT organization.It s worth noting that Barzinji s IIIT donated $3,500 to Esam Omeish s 2009 campaign delegate campaign, tying together the cadre of Muslim Brotherhood-linked leaders who got into Kaine s orbit.WHO IS HUMA ABEDIN?
Hillary s Right-Hand Woman Has Some Shady Connections [Video]Please read more: Breitbart News