Donald Trump s first trip overseas was an absolute disaster, and it s becoming obvious that Trump has full intention of making his second one just as bad.Trump kicked off his second international tour with a joint press conference with Poland s President, Andrzej Duda, and it seemed as though Trump totally forgot which country he is supposed to be leading.
When Trump was questioned about Russia by MSNBC White House Correspondent Hallie Jackson, Trump betrayed America in front of the entire world.Jackson asked Trump, Will you once and for all, yes or no, definitively say that Russia interfered in the 2016 election?
Trump responded by trashing U.S. intel and former President Barack Obama: I think it was Russia and I think it could have been a lot of people interfered.
I said it very simply.
I think it could very well have been Russia, but I think it well could have been other countries, and I won t be specific, but I think a lot of people interfere.I think it s been happening for a long time.
It s been happening for many years.
Now, the thing I have to mention is that Barack Obama when he was president found out about this in terms of if it were Russia.
Found out about it in August.
Now, the election was in November.
That s a lot of time.
He did nothing about it.
Jackson pressed Trump further, asking the unhinged POTUS why he refused to agree with what U.S. intel is currently saying about Russia: Your intelligence agencies have been far more definitive.
They say it was Russia.
Why won t you agree with them and say it was?
Trump made U.S. intel look like a joke: Let me start off by saying I heard it was 17 agencies.
I said boy, that s a lot.
Do we even have that many intelligence agencies?
Let s check it.
We did some heavy research.
It turned out to be three or four, and many of your compatriots had to change their reporting and had to apologize and correct.
You can watch Trump throw U.S. intel and Obama under the bus below:This disgusting move has been condemned by many already.
Morning Joe host Joe Scarborough called Trump s comments nothing short of disgusting.
As we ve said before, you re on foreign soil.
This is remarkable.
For a sitting president of the United States to be on foreign soil.
You can t really underline this enough, and attack America s intel community, on foreign soil, and attack America s free press on foreign soil For him to attack American institutions two days after the fourth of July on foreign soil, the day before we meet America s chief adversary is nothing short of disgusting.
Trump never ceases to surprise us by taking the country to new lows.Featured image via Drew Angerer / Getty Images