In an effort to get serious, Donald Trump unexpectedly announced a long list of federal judges he says he might pick to replace the deceased Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court should he be elected.
One of his top picks (all of whom are white) is Texas Supreme Court Justice Don Willett.
And he s apparently as surprised as anyone.Justice Willett has been pretty clear that he actively loathes Donald Trump.
On Twitter, a large portion of his comments are directed towards tearing apart the Republican presumptive nominee.
Just two days before Trump released his name, Willett was using a Muppets gif to sum up his feelings on the 2016 election.#Election2016 is brought to you by the letters S, M, and H. pic.twitter.com/ymJLlJO3Mg Justice Don Willett (@JusticeWillett) May 17, 2016Many of his tweets attack Trump specifically.Low-energy Trump University has never made it to #MarchMadness.
Or even to the #NIT.
Sad!
?
pic.twitter.com/DWcfJOZkPu Justice Don Willett (@JusticeWillett) March 15, 2016What is the Trump University mascot?
Justice Don Willett (@JusticeWillett) March 11, 2016One from just a month after Trump announced that he would be running (and at a time when most Americans figured Trump s campaign would detonate upon lift off), Willett was already nailing Trump for his thin skin and petty insults.
"With malice toward none, with charity for all .
.
.
except for all the losers, clowns, and dummies."
President Donald Lincoln Justice Don Willett (@JusticeWillett) August 7, 2015And perhaps the very best tweet and probably the one that will cost Willett the chance of ever being selected:Donald Trump haiku Who would the DonaldName to #SCOTUS?
The mind reels.
*weeps can't finish tweet* pic.twitter.com/a326AP0mN1 Justice Don Willett (@JusticeWillett) June 16, 2015Willett is certainly no liberal.
He worked on George W. Bush s presidential campaign and was appointed a Supreme Court of Texas justice by then Governor Rick Perry.
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest, for instance, scoffed at Willett and his fellow selectees as being laughably right-wing.
Instead, Willett s beef with Trump appears to be entirely based on the fact that, like many Republicans, he can t believe a buffoon like Trump managed to get the GOP to actively support him.Neither can we.Trump s half-baked SCOTUS nominee selection can be added to the growing body of evidence supporting the idea that Donald Trump has absolutely no idea how to run a competent campaign.
While the press scrutinizes every minor slip up coming from other candidates, particularly Hillary Clinton, Trump has managed to botch his own PR efforts at every turn.
On Cinco de Mayo, Trump threw every bit of common sense to the wind and tweeted out a photo of himself eating a taco bowl with the caption I love Hispanics!
He pushed an economic plan that economists said would add $10 trillion to the deficit and then promptly retracted it.
He accidentally sent a white nationalist delegate to the convention.
His list of gaffes grows exponentially by the week.
The fact that he clearly spent all of five minutes googling his list of SCOTUS nominees is shocking, but not surprising.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images