The Delaware cop who went viral for his 2013 attack on an unarmed young black man is being rewarded with a $230,000 settlement.The August 2013 attack went viral after dash cam footage was released to the public.
Dover police corporal Thomas Webster IV and another officer ask Lateef Dickerson to lay on the ground.
Ad Dickerson attempts to comply, Webster is seen delivering a brutal kick to Dickerson s head.
The attack left the victim with a broken jaw.Webster was indicted by a Grand Jury, but nevertheless cleared of Felony Assault two years later.
He was allowed to resign voluntarily, meaning he is able to simply join another police department elsewhere if he chooses.To add insult to injury, Webster is also now being awarded a near quarter of a million dollar settlement by the city.
While Webster leaves the force on June 30, and remains on administrative leave until that day, USA Today reports:A settlement agreement commits the city to paying Webster $230,000 over six years.
Through 2022, he will get annual payments of roughly half his current $68,398 salary.The settlement document also says an internal affairs investigation concerning Webster that formally began on Jan. 19 will be closed down.
At the same time, Webster is forbidden from seeking any other job with Dover city government.Local African American leaders were pleased to see Webster go, but remain concerned that the corporal remains free to sign up to another police force and victimize yet another community elsewhere.
This mixed feeling was best expressed by the pastor of a local church, Rev.
Rita Page, who said: I think it s sending a message to the police that the community is not settling for anything.
We re not settling for injustices.
We re going to keep the pressure on until justice is served.
I do have a concern because of the fact that he s voluntarily resigning, whether or not he ll be able to serve in other municipalities.
I m hoping he will not.
I was really hoping he would be terminated, Webster never made an apology or accepted responsibility for his attack on Lateef Dickerson.
Now, he is getting another few months of paid leave to look for another job, and a $230,000 golden handshake as he leaves.
There s only one signal that send out to crooked cops.
Crime pays.
Featured image via Dover Police