If there s anyone who is absolutely tired of Donald Trump s shenanigans running for office, it s Last Week Tonight host John Oliver.On Sunday s show he had a simple request of Trump: Drop out.
Simply drop out and tell America this entire candidacy was a stunt.
A satire designed to expose the flaws in the system.
He also added: You re either going to win, or you re going to lose, and I think both those scenarios end pretty badly for you.
Oliver then went on to explain that if Trump were to win that he would absolutely unqualified and his candidacy is very reminiscent of a fiction book that is about a class clown who ran for president as a joke.Speaking directly to Trump, he also says: Although your campaign was the political equivalent of a bigoted clown s blazing funeral pyre, you have accidentally made upwards of four good points during this campaign.
Adding: If you dropped out in order to teach America a lesson, you would not be a loser, you would be a legend.
It would actually be something quite extraordinary if Trump were to just drop out, because it would absolutely expose how flawed not only our system is, but also how flawed many of the citizens are living within it.Oliver wants Trump to admit that it s all been a joke, and to come on his show, but under one condition, he must read the speech from the book The Kid Who Ran For President.
That speech reads: I have a question for the grown-ups of America Are you out of your minds?
Are you expecting me to enforce the Constitution?
I never even read it.
I was absent from school that day.
You want me as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces?
What if somebody attacks the United States?
Would you really want me in charge?
America must be in really bad shape if you elected me president.
You better get it together and find some qualified people to run this country or we ll all be in big trouble.
It s a speech that one could quite literally imagine Trump saying.Now it s up to Trump to own up to pulling a fast one over on the United States and appear on Oliver s show, OR continue on being the schmuck that he may truly be.
It s really up to him.Watch the segment here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nDqDKfBvirQFeatured image via video screen capture