Conservative donors are shaking in their boots over the idea of a Trump presidency destroying the Republican party, and the last 35 years of their promotion of plutocracy in America.
Things have gotten so bad for them in the face of Trump s virtually unstoppable campaign, that they are now throwing money at a GOP consulting firm to figure out if a late-term independent 3rd party run could be initiated if Trump wins the Republican nomination.The document, which was supposed to remain confidential, was created by staff at Data Targeting, which is a right-wing political firm in Gainesville Florida.
The memo says that it is possible to mount an independent candidacy but [it] will require immediate action on the part of this core of key funding and strategic players.
All this research has to happen before March 16, when inevitably Trump is the nominee, so that we have a plan in place, an inside source that was part of the development of the document said.
March 16 is the day after the Republican primary in Florida, which is winner-take-all for the victor.
Marco Rubio supporters are hoping that they can win this one to halt Trump s so far unstoppable momentum.
As it is now, Rubio s prospects for this are growing dimmer by the day.
The latest Real Clear Politics poll shows Trump at 40.3 to Rubio s 20.8.
It will be almost impossible for Rubio to beat Trump in his home state at this rate.The process of creating a third-party independent to run is not going to be easy.
The candidate would need to gather over 79,900 petition signatures in Texas by May 9, and 89,000 in North Carolina by June 9.
While this is possible in the time allotted, finding some relative unknown and suddenly propping him or her up as the great white hope of the Republican party will be met with jeers by many.
As dumb as Republican voters may be, they aren t going to suddenly start voting for a corporate funded nobody.Texas and North Carolina have been pegged as the litmus test due to Texas s 38 electoral votes being a necessity for any Republican win, and North Carolina s status as a swing state that leans Republican.
A failure in these states for a third-party candidate would make it nearly impossible for a 3rd party win.It s possible that the third-party candidate could still run, in an effort to simply prevent a Trump presidency at the cost of letting the Democrats retain control.
A Trump nomination is going to be embarrassing enough for Republicans.
An actual Trump presidency would possibly damage the party permanently beyond repair.
It s only a theory, but if it came down to destroying the party or waiting at least 4 more years, they will take the latter.Featured image via YouTube