Full Frontal host Samantha Bee braced herself and attempted a dialogue with Trump fans away from the mud-slinging happening across the internet.
She gave Trump s followers a chance to show a better side of themselves and they blew it.
Bee didn t cheat.
She didn t walk into a roadside bar and grab a couple drunks with KKK t-shirts on.
She invited a diverse array of Trump supporters: women, gay, black, Asian, college graduates, bi-partisan.
All were represented.
The common theme: none of them were able to put forward a single coherent response when asked the most simple questions about their candidate.
And when pressed, all hit the hot button of anger.The host begins by showing footage of some of the racist violence spilling out at Trump rallies across the country.
This includes the moment John Franklin McGraw of North Carolina sucker-punching a black protester and threatening to kill him (Trump later stated he would pay the attacker s legal bills, and those of anyone arrested for violence at his rallies).While Trump pinned the blame for violence on Bernie Sanders supporters, Bee showed footage of Trump fans telling bystanders to go to Auschwitz.
Go to f**king Auschwitz.
Clearly, not a Sanders fan.But, Bee states, surely the millions of Trump supporters across the country can t be hysterical racists?
There must be some sane, rational, people who are choosing to back Trump too.
So she picked a sample and offered to put on a lavish party for them in exchange for an open conversation about their candidate and their views.It s actually more terrifying than the racist violence.
What you see is smart, open-minded people choking down their own souls to belong.
Bee starts by asking the group how they feel about their candidates statements on banning muslims from the country.
Temporarily!
they say, almost in unison.
For our national security.
As if this somehow resolves the dilemma.
They take no issue with lumping the world s 1.7 billion Muslims together as terrorists.However, when Bee asks them how they feel about white supremacists backing their candidate, they are up in arms at the lumping together of themselves with other Trump fans.
One supporter doesn t even look remotely convinced of her own argument as she mumbles: We all love America, I guess.
If there s something we can come together on, we want this country to be great, I think everyone can get behind that.
Getting angry at the clear embarrassment this question has caused the group, one supporter strikes out with: It s clearly illogical to play the guilt-by-association game because we could do this all day long, To which Bee points out that they have no problem playing that game against Muslims.Silence.Bee moves on, asking the group how they feel about the racist violence breaking out at Trump rallies.
They argue that the media is continuing to quote Trump out of context.
So Bee plays the video of Trump inciting the crowd to attack a protester, stating that he would do it himself.
She turns to the group and asks: Can you acknowledge that it is literally impossible, as a member of the media, to ignore a person when they say they would punch a protester in the face?
One supporter dismisses the question out of hand, stating that if you get enough people in a space, somebody is always going to get punched in the face.
Ok.Bee mingles around the the party, and chats to the woman who stated that Trump would bring America together.
She tells Bee she really wants the wall, to keep out undesirables.
When asked who will pay for it, the woman states with glee that Mexico will.
Bee s fact checker points out that Mexico is on the record as stating they will not pay for the wall.
To which the woman replies, wide-eyed: And you know what Trump said?
The wall just got 10 feet taller!
Her final chat at the party is with a man clearly on the verge of rage.
Bee states that he is making her feel uncomfortable because although he is smiling, there is real anger in his eyes.
With another burst of barely suppressed rage and pointing a finger in Bee s face, the man states: There s no anger, it s passion.
Don t mistake that.
Bee signs off with a resigned sigh that we have to withstand 8 months more of this passion , while a rolling a montage of violence at Trump rallies.What is clear from the footage is that there s no way of holding a rational argument with a zealot.
And what s clear from the Trump fan party is that he is encouraging zealotry, the unquestioning evangelism of Trump, in groups that might otherwise display all the signs of being critical thinkers and evidence-based voters.
That is way if anything, this bizarre party is more terrifying than the hysterical scenes at the rallies because these people know better, and they re choosing to be sucked into the dark world of Donald Trump anyway.
Featured Image via Flickr/Screengrab