Sheriff David Clarke of Milwaukee County, Wisc., is possibly in line to become the next Secretary of Homeland Security.
He s ruthless, he s extreme right, he s abusive, and he s just flat terrifying.
Prisoners have died under his watch, too, for reasons such as labor and thirst.
When the Milwaukee County medical examiner released standard reports on two of these deaths, Clarke absolutely lost it.Brian Peterson told the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel that Clarke called him at the end of October and verbally pummeled him because of those reports.
He threatened to contact the state s medical licensing board to have Peterson s license revoked, or at least to get him sanctioned.
Peterson said: I haven t been talked to like that since I was probably 5.
Is this really someone we want in charge of an entire federal department?
Someone who s going to threaten to destroy those who expose the truth about him?
It s actually no wonder Trump would consider him that s what Trump does.
Eliminate anyone who makes you look even slightly bad.What s worse is that Peterson contacted the county s executive office about it a day later, and it came out that they aren t totally unfamiliar with Clarke s bullying behavior.
This isn t an isolated incident.Clarke has excoriated Black Lives Matter as an anarchist group and a hate group, and predicted that they d join forces with ISIS at some point to destroy America.
He s also a member of an extreme anti-government group known as the Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Organization, which should make him unfit to serve as Secretary of anything at all.That organization promotes the idea that the county sheriff is the supreme law enforcement entity in the country, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.Clarke s office contacted the county executive s office to claim that they had a recording of the entire conversation and paint Peterson as a liar.
But, surprise, surprise, they refused to provide it even though it could have cleared Clarke.
Then again, nonexistent tapes can t clear anybody, so that answers that.This disgusting excuse for a law enforcement officer and human being is the one who should lose his job.
Nobody should be allowed to abuse anyone, and Clarke is guilty of many, many abuses.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images