Millions of Americans are at risk of not being allowed to vote in this year s presidential election because of voter suppression efforts by Republicans, and that did not sit well with Seth Meyers at all.During Wednesday night s edition of Late Night, Meyers took aim at restrictive voter ID laws that have caused absolute chaos during primaries in several states, in particularly Wisconsin and Arizona, where Republicans have enacted such laws in an effort to prevent Democratic voters from exercising their right and civic duty.On Tuesday, Wisconsin GOP state Rep. Glenn Grothman openly bragged that the voter ID he helped pass in his state would hurt Hillary Clinton in the general election.
Hillary Clinton is about the weakest candidate the Democrats have ever put up and now we have voter ID and I think voter ID is going to make a little bit of a difference as well, he said on national television as the law caused long delays and forced voters to wait in long lines.
You re not supposed to say that out loud, Meyers responded.
That s like a dude rolling up in a Corvette and saying, You know, I bought this to compensate for my tiny penis.
Meyers then moved on to North Carolina, where a sweeping GOP-passed anti-voting law has caused poll workers to make voting difficult for people who aren t white.
During the North Carolina primary in March, poll workers forced an Asian couple to spell their names and made them wait to exercise their voting rights as white voters were allowed to breeze through the lines without a problem.
Critics had warned in 2013 that the voter ID law would bring back Jim Crow era tactics, and it looks like they were right.
That s terrible news for the nation s Kaileys, Meyers quipped.
So many ways you can go, Kayleigh.
This is America the only time you should have to spell your own name is when you re screaming it on a call with Time Warner Cable.
Then Meyers took aim at Arizona, where the worst voting fiasco has taken place thus far this year.Arizona Republicans slashed the number of polling places from 400 to 200 in 2012, which led to thousands of citizens waiting in line to vote for hours.
Maricopa County Recorder Helen Purcell went ahead and cut that down to 60 just this year, resulting in an even longer wait to cast votes in a county with a population of four million.
But that s not all.
Misinformation was spread via the Secretary of State s website and hundreds of voters, mostly Democrats, had their party affiliation altered prior to the primary.
Even Secretary of States Michele Reagan testified that election fraud occurred and Arizonans are calling for a federal investigation.
If you ve been waiting in line so long the pizza place is willing to deliver to you, you re going to be frustrated, Meyers remarked.
Is that a house or an apartment?
It s a line I live in a line.
Meyers ended the segment by pointing out that these voter ID laws could end up repeating the 2000 Election.
You know, the nightmare election that forced George W. Bush upon America because the conservative-leaning Supreme Court stepped in to halt a recount that could have resulted in an Al Gore victory.
And we all know what happened over the next eight years.Yeah, let s not do that again.Here s the video via YouTube: Featured Image: Screenshot