The father of the UCLA basketball player who had been suspended for shoplifting in China has just pulled his son from the college.
He believes the suspension of his son was unfair Can you believe this guy?
He s so lucky his son isn t still stuck in China but was lucky enough to have President Trump save his azz TMZ reported the following:It s a stunning move LiAngelo Ball will no longer be on the UCLA basketball team and, in fact, he will not be a student at UCLA because his father, LaVar Ball, is removing him from the institution TMZ Sports has learned.
We re told LaVar believes the suspension was unfair, especially since the charges were dropped.
LaVar s people tell TMZ Sports the famous dad thinks, There s no need to break down a kid s spirit for making a mistake.
Our sources say LiAngelo is not officially withdrawn from the school but he s at home and will not return to UCLA.
This is huge news, but hardly surprising.
The writing has been on the wall for this one ever since it happened.
UCLA suspended him as soon as he returned to America, and now it looks like he ll never ever play a single second on the court for the Bruins.What a wild turn of events.
One day you re a big time recruit for UCLA, the next you re getting arrested in China and before long you re out of school.This father made the wrong move too bad for his son.IN CASE YOU HAVEN T HEARD OF WHAT A TOTAL JERK THIS FATHER WAS TO PRESIDENT TRUMP:Send this kid back to China!
The ungrateful attitude of the father of LiAngelo Ball is so classless.
What s even worse the dad makes excuses and even dismisses the son s crime as no big deal: They try to make a big deal out of nothing sometimes.
I m from L.A.
I ve seen a lot worse things happen than a guy taking some glasses.
LaVar Ball, father of UCLA player with sticky fingers And we wonder why we have little thugs who aren t remorseful for their crimes?
The sense of entitlement stinks to high heaven!
Bad parenting LaVar Ball!
WHO?
Days after President Donald Trump touted his role in the release of three UCLA basketball students who were arrested in China, LaVar Ball, the father of one of those players, suggested the President had little to do with the matter.
Who?
Ball told ESPN when asked about Trump s involvement in the situation.
What was he over there for?
Don t tell me nothing.
Everybody wants to make it seem like he helped me out.
Trump s social media director, Dan Scavino, fired back at Ball on his personal Twitter account Saturday afternoon, saying Ball s son, LiAngelo, would be in China for a long, long, long time without the President s assistance.
Wannabe @Lakers coach, BIG MOUTH @Lavarbigballer knows if it weren t for President @realDonaldTrump, his son would be in China for a long, long, long time!
#FACT, Scavino wrote.LiAngelo Ball, along with two other players, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill, were arrested last week on suspicion of stealing sunglasses from a Louis Vuitton store while their team was in the Chinese city of Hangzhou.
Trump had said he personally asked Chinese President Xi Jinping to intervene in the case.On Wednesday, Trump issued a call for gratitude from the players on twitter.
He did get a thanks for their release after his tweet.STICKY FINGERS NO BIG DEAL?Athletic Director Dan Guerrero confirmed the trio shoplifted from three stores near their hotel Monday night.
The three were identified the next morning after police searched their bags and found the stolen items.LaVar Ball told ESPN he was happy to have his son back, and also seemed to downplay his alleged crime.
As long as my boy s back here, I m fine, he said.
I m happy with how things were handled.
A lot of people like to say a lot of things that they thought happened over there.
Like I told him, They try to make a big deal out of nothing sometimes.
I m from L.A.
I ve seen a lot worse things happen than a guy taking some glasses.
All three players have been suspended from the UCLA basketball team indefinitely.