UPDATE ON THE REDSKINS BATTLE WITH THE FEDS:ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) A federal judge has ordered the Patent and Trademark Office to cancel registration of the Washington Redskins trademark, ruling that the team name may be disparaging to Native Americans.The ruling Wednesday by Judge Gerald Bruce Lee affirms an earlier finding by an administrative appeal board.In his 70-page ruling, Lee emphasized that the organization is still free to use the name if it wishes the team would just lose some legal protections that go along with federal registration of a trademark.The team had sued to overturn a ruling against it by the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.
The team argued that cancellation of its trademark infringed on its free-speech rights because it required the government to judge whether the name is offensive.The organization can appeal.Via: scrippsmediaThe left is holding hostage new construction of the Washington Redskins stadium for a petty desire to get their way.
Demanding a name change from the Redskins to something they consider more pc is total bs.
The American Indians who have already responded in favor of keeping the team name understand the name isn t offensive and understand the history behind the name.
This is just more of Obama s effort to cleanse our nation of anything HE deems offensive.Efforts to lure the Washington Redskins back to the District have come up against a potentially insurmountable challenge: the Obama administration s objections to the team s name.Interior Secretary Sally Jewell told D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser this spring that the National Park Service, which owns the land beneath Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium, was unlikely to accommodate construction of a new stadium for the Redskins unless the team changes its name.Jewell oversees both national park land and America s trust and treaty relationships with Native American tribes.Her decision not to extend the District s lease of the RFK land badly hinders Bowser s bid to return the Redskins to D.C. and boosts efforts to lure the team across the Potomac to Northern Virginia.Since joining the Obama administration two years ago, Jewell has repeatedly echoed the president s concern that the name is offensive to Native Americans.
Last fall she called the name a relic of the past that should be changed.
Personally, I think we would never consider naming a team the Blackskins or the Brownskins or the Whiteskins.
So, personally, I find it surprising that in this day and age, the name is not different, Jewell told ABC News.Jewell reiterated that position with Bowser (D) at an April 27 meeting, telling the mayor that she was unlikely to rework the lease terms for a stadium in part because of the team s name, according to a Department of the Interior spokeswoman, Jessica Kershaw.Team owner Daniel Snyder, who insists that the moniker honors Native Americans, has vowed never to change it.Bowser, jockeying with Virginia Gov.
Terry McAuliffe (D) to land the team s new stadium, had inquired with Park Service officials about extending the District s lease for the RFK property to allow for a new stadium.
Extending the lease would also require congressional action.
[Tug of war for new Redskins stadium is complicated by name debate]Jewell did mention in that meeting that she was uncomfortable with the name, Kershaw said.
The president has said something similar, that he is uncomfortable with the name, and she clearly clarified that position.
Read more: WaPo