It s come to this legal citizens are being pushed aside for the refugee invaders.
Sweden began to import refugees decades ago and now has a reputation for being a failed experiment in multiculturalism.
Yes, Sweden is now the rape capital of the world.
Say goodbye to Sweden A local family in the Swedish city of Liding has been ordered by the government to leave their home so that it can be given to migrants arriving from a foreign country.Father of two teenage boys Uffe Rustan received a voicemail from his local municipality telling him he would need to vacate the property by August in order to make way for asylum seekers from the Middle East.
I was evicted from my home over the phone.
When I asked for the reason, he said that people come from other countries.
He left the news and basically just said have a nice weekend, Rustan told a newspaper.Rustan lives with his teenage sons Rasmus (15) and Linus (17), all of whom were born in Liding .
He rents the home from the city and has been living in it for less than a year.
It feels like I m worthless, even though I pay taxes and my kids go to school here.
You cannot put a family on the streets for another family, said Rustan.
Just when it starts to feel like home, we are evicted.
Rustan said that the news was depressing and wondered why native Swedes were being treated worse than migrants arriving in the country for the first time.
Despite suffering from a housing shortage, Sweden is handing over property to economic migrants, with some politicians even encouraging citizens to give up their garages to asylum seekers.
Sweden is not the only European government that is turfing its own citizens out of social housing to accommodate the influx of Muslim migrants.
While migrants are in some cases enjoying all the comforts of good quality hotels, low income Germans are being ordered to leave their homes.
As the Telegraph reported, Germans are beginning to receive notices of eviction to make way for asylum seekers.Read more: InfoWars