This is not just a win for the Alt-Right or for the Republican Party, this is a win for America.
American voters are about to prove that it s possible for an outsider who loves his country so damn much, that he s willing walk away from a multi-billion dollar business and essentially trade down his glamorous NYC and Palm Beach estates, can and WILL win the most coveted prize for career politicians.
For many of us, the idea of Donald J. Trump beating the odds-on favorite sociopathic liar, Hillary Clinton and her serial rapist husband, is a victory we could have never imagined only one year ago.
We ve watched Donald Trump interview candidates for top jobs in his company for years on his Apprentice TV show.
He knows how to pick a winner because he knows precisely what it takes to be a winner.
After 8 long years of being kicked around and humiliated by Iran, Russia, Iraq, North Korea and China, American voters are ready for a leader to represent us, someone who gives us hope that America can, and will win again.
Of course the idea of winning, or being the best at something is triggering liberals in the media to pack their suitcases and head for a more mediocre environment, one where the idea of Making America Great again is mocked and ridiculed.
To the whiny, mediocre liberals we say, So long Lefties!
We can never make America great again if half the nation believes we need to be sorry for our successes.
So don t let the door hit ya where the good Lord split ya .And oh yeah, don t forget to come back and visit when you or a family member needs quality health care.
Give us a couple of years to fix this Obamacare mess We ll be waiting If Donald Trump does sack the fortress, no one who lost the battle will want to admit it was Hillary Clinton s fault.
It will have had nothing to do with, say, transparency or calling bearded villagers deplorables or the Iraq War vote or the simple fact that middle-of-the-road Clintonism ran out of gas as a public philosophy.No, other individuals, groups and forces will have to be blamed.
In fact, they already are, pre-emptively.
If Trump wins, we re all going to be too busy moving to Canada to read the postmortems (or write them), so we offer them to you now:1.
THE MEDIA Everyone s pi ata.
Trump will blame the media.
Gary Johnson will blame the media.
Jill Stein will blame the media.
(The media will ask, Wait, which one was Jill Stein?
)2.
THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING Actually, they arrived long ago and got into her phone.3.
MILLENNIALS Ugh.
F**cking idealists, right?4.
BERNIE SANDERS Remember when people worried that running unopposed in the primary would hurt Clinton?
It s going to be an endless wail about how Sanders should have withdrawn sooner.5.
BILL CLINTON You know how this will go down: Best campaigner of all time and he couldn t close the sale.
He lost his mojo.6.
SEXISTS Ugh.
F**cking glass ceiling.7.
OBAMA PEOPLE If they could delete all of David Axelrod s tweets, they would.8.
JAMES COMEY He might as well have indicted her for real, like he did in the court of public opinion.
Extremely careless.9.
DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ AND THE DNC Her Soviet-style approach to boosting Clinton was something that Hillary s campaign was happy to countenance.
But the former DNC chair should have left room for dissent rather than let it bottle up.
Huffington PostPlease note that nowhere on this list will you find the real reason the Democrats lost.
And no, it s not Hillary it s actually the American voters desire to be great again period.