Republicans are great at creating controversy where there is none.
They shut down the get out the vote organization, ACORN, because they fraudulently made people believe that ACORN was a criminal front (because, you know, black people).
They ve also tried to strangle the life out of Planned Parenthood, again, for fraudulent reasons.One persistent non-problem that Republicans are manufacturing is voter fraud, which is virtually non-existent.
This is actually pretty big deal.
According to a poll released this week, more than half of respondents felt that voter fraud was real, and most of those were Republicans.Trump himself has been beating the drum about voter fraud when he proactively claims that the only way he d lose is if the election is rigged.
Well, maybe Trump should look right under his nose.
It appears that there is voter fraud, but it s coming from Trump s own newly hired campaign CEO, Steve Bannon.
Bannon is registered in the swing state of Florida, but records show that no one actually lives at the address to which he s registered.
In fact, it s set to be torn down.
That makes him a criminal, at least according to Florida law.According to a report in The Guardian, Bannon has never lived in the house he claims as his residence.
His ex-wife, Diane Clohesy once lived there.
She moved out earlier in the year.
The two divorced seven years ago.If you think that s just some sort of inadvertent paperwork error, well, it happened twice.Bannon previously rented another house for Clohesy in Miami from 2013 to 2015 and assigned his voter registration to the property during that period.
But a source with direct knowledge of the rental agreement for this house said Bannon did not live there either, and that Bannon and Clohesy were not in a relationship.Bannon, Clohesy and Trump s campaign repeatedly declined to answer detailed questions about Bannon s voting arrangements.
Jason Miller, a Trump campaign spokesman, eventually said in an email: Mr Bannon moved to another location in Florida.
Miller declined to answer further questions.According to neighbors, Bannon has been to the first house (which he paid $5,500 a month for), but only a few times and he certainly didn t live there.
The neighbors at the second house say they ve never seen Bannon.Bannon does set up shop in what he calls Breitbart embassy, which is a $2.4 million townhouse right next to the Supreme Court building.
Bannon lives upstairs while his staff works in the basement.
That, however, is owned by Mostafa El-Gindy, who s an Egyptian businessman.This may be less about voter fraud than tax fraud.
Florida has no income tax, so people often try to set up Florida addresses to escape taxes.
Attorneys typically recommend that they also attach a voter registration address as some sort of evidence of residency.
There is no record Bannon has voted from that address.If Bannon is found guilty of submitting false information on a Florida registration form, it s a third-degree felony and punishable by up to five years in prison.
Of course, the odds of him actually being prosecuted are pretty damned slim, but it does put a big wrench in the Trump campaign s claims of voter fraud.Featured image via CNN video screen capture.