The Republican race towards the White House is getting more terrifying by the day.
We have the front-runner, Donald Trump, saying at his rallies that not only does he want his crowd of supporters to be violent towards protesters, but he s also saying that he ll pay their legal fees.
Now, we have Ted Cruz, who s currently in second place, saying that he ll back Trump unless he were to shoot someone.Cruz, while being interviewed Monday and asked if he s still sticking to his loyalty pledge to back the Republican nominee, said: Well, I can give you one example where I would no longer support Donald Trump.
If, for example, he were to go out on Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody, I would not be willing to support Donald Trump.
Cruz is referring to when Trump said that his supporters love him so much, he could even shoot someone in the middle of Fifth Avenue and they would still love him.When pressed on the subject of violence at Trump rallies by a reporter and if he has reconsidered his pledge due to recent developments, Cruz insisted that he ll still back Trump.
Cruz said: I know it is a shocking concept to member of the media.
A shocking concept that an elected official actually does what he said.
At the outset of this campaign I committed, I will support the Republican nominee, and I honor my word.
This clearly shows Cruz s inflexibility on evolving situations, and proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that he does not belong in the White House.
Being president includes being able to gather and process to information and intelligence and make the best decision for the nation depending on that information.Honestly, if people are still voting Republican at this point we should question their sanity.
We literally have the top Republican presidential candidate encouraging violence against others, and the next in line saying he ll back that sort of behavior, unless, of course, he were to actually shoot somebody.
We, as Americans, should not only be ashamed, we should be terrified that one of these men has a very real shot at being leader of the free world.Here s the video via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture