On November 22, 2014, 12-year-old Tamir Rice was gunned down by Cleveland police as he played with a toy gun in a park.
The officers involved in the shooting were cleared of any wrongdoing, even though they shot the child within seconds of arriving at the park.
Now, a year and a half later, the city is doing something so outrageous that even the president of the police union is disgusted: billing his mother for his final ambulance ride.On Wednesday, his family s attorney Subodh Chandra spoke to the press about the $500 bill from the city: The callousness, insensitivity and poor judgment required for the city to send a bill is breathtaking.
This adds insult to homicide.
Not only is Chandra horrified by the city s decision to send Tamir s mom, Samaria Rice, a statement for the cost of the ride, so is police union President Steve Loomis, who said: Subodh Chandra and I have never agreed on anything until now.
It is unconscionable that the city of Cleveland would send that bill to the Rice family Truly disappointing, but not at all surprising.
It s hard to imagine what the city was thinking when they sent his mother that invoice.
Ms.Rice said that she believes the city is harassing her because of the civil suit she has against them, and it sure sounds like that.This isn t the first time Cleveland has responded to the little boy s family with such callousness.
When Rice filed the lawsuit against the city they blamed Tamir s death on himself, claiming he failed to exercise due care to avoid injury.
Because apparently it is a child s responsibility to not be shot by a trigger-happy police officer who had a history of mental health problems.
This 12-year-old was supposed to know that a cop, someone who was supposed to protect him, was going to shoot him without even speaking to him because he looked scary.
The Department of Justice is still investigating the department and we can only hope that this child finally gets the justice he deserves; we also hope that Samaria Rice prevails in her civil suit and teaches this disgusting city a lesson.
Featured image via Addicting Info archives