Donald Trump, Jr. seems to have taken over as his father s campaign s Supervisor of Offensive Posts, particularly with some of his most recent tweets.
One was of a bowl of Skittles, and asked us the really asinine question of whether we d eat those Skittles if we knew three of them were poisoned, but not which ones.
He s (rightfully) caught an awful lot of flack for that, but he likely didn t expect to catch it from the man who took that photo.He probably also didn t expect the photographer to be who he is: A refugee living in the U.K. David Kittos fled Turkish occupation of Cyprus in the 1970s and has been living in the U.K. ever since.
He is (quite understandably) angry by Trump Jr. s misappropriation of his image to promote a xenophobic, racist and anti-refugee policy: This was not done with my permission, I don t support his politics and I would never take his money to use it.In 1974, when I was six-years old, I was a refugee from the Turkish occupation of Cyprus so I would never approve the use of this image against refugees.
Oops.
That s only a minor faux pas oh wait.
It s a major embarrassment to use an image that originates with a refugee to speak out against refugees.Kittos took the picture six years ago in his studio while he was experimenting with a specific type of flash.
He s not on Twitter, but friends familiar with his work let him know of this unauthorized and offensive use of one of his photos, which does appear on Flickr.Just what is up with this campaign acting like copyright only applies to other people?We digress.
Anyway.Kittos photo was never intended for political use and he certainly would never release it or sell it for such usage.
Trump Jr. and others, like the disgraceful former Congresscritter Joe Walsh, don t seem to care, though, as long as they can make their point that refugees are dangerous.Wrigley, the makers of Skittles candy, also upbraided Trump Jr. for his baloney: Skittles are candy.
Refugees are people.We don t feel it is an appropriate analogy.
We will respectfully refrain from further commentary as anything we say could be misinterpreted as marketing.
For his part, Kittos isn t sure if he s going to pursue legal action.
However, he did say: I would like the Trump campaign to delete the image, but they are probably not interested in what I have to say.I was thinking about getting lawyers involved but I don t know if I have the patience.This isn t about the money for me.
They could have just bought a cheap image from a micro stock library.
This is pure greed from them.
I don t think they care about my feelings.
They should not be stealing an image full stop.
And they definitely need to learn how to source copyrighted work if they re the so-called law and order campaign that they claim to be.
But that s beside the point.
Kittos is, himself, a refugee.
It s natural that he would feel especially upset by this use of his image.
It also speaks to the insanely tone-deaf nature of the Trump campaign.
They don t care about such trivia as long as their point is made.Featured image by John Sommers II/Getty Images