Republicans are desperately defending Russia after a CIA investigation concluded that Russian hackers interfered in our election to help Donald Trump win.And that is infuriating to Joe Scarborough.The Morning Joe host tore into Republicans on Monday morning for opposing an investigation into Russian meddling, which they are only doing because they know Trump s legitimacy is in serious jeopardy.
By attacking the CIA and claiming that nothing happened, and by claiming that it s a dude in Jersey listening to Bon Jovi on his Walkman, I m saying that all that does is it makes sure that this is around for two more years, Scarborough said.Indeed, Donald Trump has peddled the claim that the CIA doesn t really know who hacked our system and that it could have been some guy in a basement somewhere.
But Trump s understanding of technology doesn t go beyond throwing temper tantrums on Twitter.
Our experts in the CIA and other intelligence agencies, however, are pretty damn good at what they do, and hacking leaves traces that can be followed to the source.And by defending Russia and trying to block a thorough investigation, Trump is only making himself look more illegitimate while denying the people a chance to know the truth.
It also confirms just how far up Putin s ass Trump and his Republican supporters are and makes it clear that they care about Russia more than the United States.In the end, Scarborough called our those Republicans.
Republicans and Democrats alike need to get to the bottom of it.
They need to get to the bottom of it now, and any Republican that is standing in the way of this investigation is doing a disservice to not only their party but to their country.
It s not going away.
There s nothing that Donald Trump or Mitch McConnell or any Republican can do about it.
Let s get to the bottom of it as fast as possible.
Here s the video via YouTube.Defending Russia instead of the integrity of our election system is un-American and Trump and his Repulican allies should be ashamed of themselves for siding with Putin.
It s time for them to stop whining and start waking up to the fact that Russia rigged our election for Trump and there needs to be an investigation.
And if that investigation confirms that Russia did, indeed, help Trump win, Trump should be forced to step aside and a new election should be scheduled immediately.Featured Image: Screenshot