Do you remember the stories of bags of cash given to President Karzai in Afghanistan?
The DOD thinks it was $300 Million ANNUALLY On ghost soldiers !
Our government has spent $68 BILLION since 2002 helping Afghanistan s military and security forces Now President Trump is asking the question that we all want to ask: Where did this money go?This will make you crazy!
How could the DOD not check into this until recently?According to the special inspector general for Afghanistan reconstruction, John Sopko, who recently sat down for an interview with Sharyl Attkinson of Full Measure, the ongoing problem may have been worse than anyone realized, but was being addressed by President Donald Trump s Pentagon.
We ve been raising this concern about ghosts going back a number of years, Sopko said.
Actually I want to say we heard about it from (Afghan President) Ashraf Ghani years ago, before he became president, he warned me about ghosts, so we started looking three years ago.
Read more: CTWhat?
Sopko said, We started looking three years ago ?
The DOD has been doing this since 2002!
Think of all of the millions stolen for about 10 years!
Pitiful!Fox news reported in November about the $300 million annually given to Afghanistan: The Department of Defense has pledged to closely monitor Afghan active-duty security forces so that U.S. taxpayer money is not squandered on so-called ghost soldiers, Stars and Stripes reported.In a letter released Friday to the Pentagon, the office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, or SIGAR, said it was concerned about significant gaps between the assigned force strength of the (Afghan National Defense and Security Forces) and the actual number of personnel serving.
The letter, obtained by FoxNews.com, cites reports indicating discrepancies between the assigned force strength of the ANDSF and the actual number of personnel serving.In 2002 Congress appropriated $68 BILLION to Afghan Active Duty Security Forces or ANDSF You can only imagine the major fraud that took place from then on