Blood donations are urgently needed in the Orlando, Florida area following Saturday night s massacre.
So far, 50 people have died in the massacre and at least 53 are hospitalized due to injuries.
The shooting took place at Pulse, an LGBT nightclub.The current crisis reveals the incredibly homophobic rules put in place by the FDA regarding blood donations.
The FDA s current rules stipulate that any man who has had sex with another man cannot donate blood until they have been celibate for one year.
This bars nearly all gay and bisexual men from being able to donate blood.According to reports, One Blood, a blood donation center in Orlando, has temporarily lifted the ban on blood for their organization, allowing men who have had homosexual intercourse donate to their organization.
One Blood reports that their blood donation center is currently at capacity.
However, they will still need high numbers of donations over the next few days in order to keep replenishing their stock.
A tremendous response by blood donors in light of the tragic mass shooting in Orlando.
We are asking donors to donate over the next several days to help replenish the blood supply.
We are asking people please make an appointment online or call 1.888.9.DONATE (1.888.936.6283).
Thank you!
As our nation collectively mourns the massive loss of life in Florida, it is a good time for us to look at the institutionalized homophobia that helps to create a culture that determines that LGBT lives and bodies are lesser than that of heteronormative individuals.
Right now, the blood of gay and bisexual men, as well as so many others, stains the interior of the Pulse nightclub.
Orlando s Mayor Buddy Dyer, described the scene by saying: There s blood everywhere.
As far as the FDA is concerned, the blood of those who died on Saturday had no value to living.Blood is thoroughly screened by blood donation organizations no matter who donates to them.
There is no need for this discriminatory policy.
Nothing should prevent a healthy person from being able to give the gift of saving a life.
The horror that occurred on Saturday night proved that gay, bisexual, straight, man, women, black, or white we all bleed and that all life is precious.Featured image from Photo by Tim Matsui/Getty Images