President Trump just spoke out on the alleged sexual misconduct of Alabama s Roy Moore.
It took a split second for leftist media outlets like Fake News CNN to say that Trump all but endorsed Moore.
Twitter was exploding with faux outrage from the left.
As usual, President Trump said what we re all thinking POTUS said Roy Moore totally denies it BUT did not endorse Moore Trump on Roy Moore sexual misconduct allegations: He totally denies it you have to listen to him also pic.twitter.com/HFCZjEhkFe NBC News (@NBCNews) November 21, 2017 He denies it.
Look, he denies it, Trump said of Moore.
If you look at all the things that have happened over the last 48 hours.
He totally denies it.
He says it didn t happen.
And look, you have to look at him also.
Several women have come forward and accused Moore of pursuing romantic relationships with them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s, and several others also have accused him of assault .Not one of them has proven anything against him.The President expressed opposition to liberal Democrat Doug Jones: We don t need a liberal person in there, a Democrat, Jones.
I ve looked at his record.
It s terrible on crime.
It s terrible on the border.
It s terrible on military, Trump said.
I can tell you for a fact we do not need somebody who s going to be bad on crime, bad on borders, bad for the military, bad for the Second Amendment.
President Trump left the door open to campaigning with Moore: I ll be letting you know next week, he said, when asked whether he will campaign with Moore.Trump repeatedly emphasized that Jones has denied the allegations brought against him:Trump declined to say whether he believed Moore s denials, but when asked he again pointed to the denials.
Well, he denies.
I mean, he denies.
I mean, Roy Moore denies it.
And by the way, it is a total denial.
And I do have to say 40 years is a long time.
He s run eight races and this has never come up.
Forty years is a long time, Trump said, pointing to the amount of time that has passed since the alleged behavior.