As soon as the news spread that there was some kind of a takeover of federal land combined with the name Bundy, ears across America perked up.
However, this isn t Cliven Bundy himself but rather his son Ammon, who is just as stubborn and since everyone seems to have missed it extremely greedy.Greedy like his Daddy.
In 2014, Cliven decided his cattle should get to graze for free and that the more than million dollars in fees he owed the US taxpayer was tyranny.
Armed freaks from across the country showed up when BLM agents seized Bundy s cattle and pointed assault rifles at them until the cattle were returned and Bundy was left alone.The federal government allowed the cattle to be returned, but Bundy is far from out of the woods.Now son Ammon has started his very own revolution, breaking into a federal building located on a wildlife refuge in Oregon, a federally protected plot of land with the strictest of rules as far as fires, hunting, alcohol and stupidity go, four things the patriots who have moved in will certainly partake in.The episode started when a local rancher and his son were sentenced to federal prison for setting over 100 acres of public land on fire to cover up their poaching.
After a protest of their incarceration, Bundy and company took the piece of forest and released a video recruiting more Murikans, promising them food and a place to stay.
Just bring your guns.At the beginning of that video, Bundy lays out three goals for the area, highlighting the kind of person he actually is.
Bundy clearly says he s going to protect the people and bring back the ranchers, miners and loggers:When you cast aside all of the I love my country BS and the we re here for the people garbage, you ll see that Bundy and pals targeted a wildlife management area because the things they think they re going to start doing there are strictly forbidden.Ranchers aren t welcome to graze their thousands of head of cattle, because the land has been designated as a natural resource.
It s a place where a natural ecosystem can actually survive without being decimated by cattle.
Bundy would, of course, change that and with his intention to be there for years if necessary, you know he s thinking setting up a cattle operation might be a good idea.Miners aren t allowed to strip or tunnel, because it s been determined that the risk to the environment of that area is too great from the pollution mining inherently brings to streams and groundwater.
You d think the ranchers would care about the heavy metal poisoning of their cattle, but for some reason they don t.Loggers aren t allowed to chop down the forest in an area like this for obvious reasons.
Things live in trees, and in this area, this tiny protected little world of plants, animals, streams and ponds, living things are essential.The Bundy stance is about greed.
It s about the mentality that just because you ve lived in a place a long time you have the right to destroy it.
For private property that may be true; you may destroy your own property at will, but that land next door owned by the taxpayer?
We have laws and such about that land.
It isn t yours.
These people have been mooching for free for so long off of the U.S. government and therefore the taxpayer that they would have no idea how to live on their own.Yes, these are the same people who call people getting food benefits lazy.
Featured image via screen capture