Is this karma?
Republicans have been receiving death threats (see below) from Democrats who SUPPORT net neutrality and are furious that it could be repealed: But if you don t support net neutrality, I will find you and your family and I will kill you all.
Angry Supporter of Net NeutralitySo this could be a sign Right?A Democratic congressman was knocked off the stage at a rally for net neutrality on Thursday when the sign behind him fell down on him:Rep. Jose Serrano (D., N.Y.) was speaking at a rally in Washington, D.C., on the same day the Federal Communications Commission is expected to repeal net neutrality regulations enacted by the Obama administration.As Serrano spoke in favor of net neutrality, the alarm-clock style sign behind him that said Wake up call fell down and pushed Serrano off the stage.
He kept his footing and made a joke about it.
Wow.
I have never been hit that hard in the South Bronx, he said, going on to speak from the ground.
But I ll speak from here, and I m doing that with a pulled muscle in my leg.REPUBLICANS HAD RECEIVED DEATH THREATS OVER NET NEUTRALITY:A New York man was arrested for making a death threat against Rep. John Katko over the net neutrality debate, the latest in a string of threats from advocates of the liberal policy.Federal Communications Commission chairman Ajit Pai has received numerous threats since announcing the agency s intention earlier this year to repeal the Obama era rules that expanded federal regulation over the internet.Katko, a Republican who represents upstate New York and has no role in the FCC agenda, received a threatening voicemail from Patrick Angelo, who vowed to kill Katko s family if he supports repealing net neutrality.
Listen Mr. Katko, if you support net neutrality, I will support you, Angelo said, according to a complaint filed in federal court.
But if you don t support net neutrality, I will find you and your family and I will kill you all.
Do you understand?
I will literally find all of you and your progeny and just wipe you from the face of the earth.
Angelo was charged with threatening to kill a U.S. congressman and is facing up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
I condemn in the strongest possible terms any attempts to intimidate government officials with violent threats, and in particular, efforts to target their families, said Chairman Pai.
I would also like to express my sympathy to Congressman Katko and his family and thank law enforcement officials for taking this matter seriously.
GOING AFTER THE CHILDREN OF FCC CHAIRMAN PAI:The net neutrality debate has become increasingly heated, with Chairman Pai reporting this week of threatening signs targeting his family.
Protest signs of the repeal policy, which Pai formally released last week, turned up in his neighborhood naming and targeting his young children.
Dad murdered democracy, one sign read, and another featured Pai s children s names.YES, THIS IS THE UNHINGED BEHAVIOR FROM THOSE ON THE LEFT WHO WANT TO KEEP NET NEUTRALITY.
PRETTY SICK!Read more: WFB