When there is talk of your father (and probable lover) and his campaign manager skipping hand-in-hand though a field of daisies with Russian dictator Vladimir Putin, it s probably not a good idea to hang out with someone who is rumored to be his girlfriend but that s exactly what Ivanka Trump just did.
People Magazine is reporting that daddy s little girl and Putin s likely lady friend, alleged Chinese spy Wendi Deng Murdoch (yes, she was also married to Fox News overlord Rupert Murdoch), were spotted over the weekend enjoying scenic Dubrovnik, Croatia, in Eastern Europe.Sight seeing with @wendimurdoch in DubrovnikA photo posted by Ivanka Trump (@ivankatrump) on Aug 14, 2016 at 8:04am PDTFor years, rumors swirled that Murdoch s ex and Trump s pal Putin were dating ever since the two elites divorced their wives in 2013 and 2014.
The Kremlin has not confirmed nor denied the relationship, and Deng flat-out denied the accusations last month, years after they became public, but anonymous sources within the Kremlin confirmed the serious relationship.
Via US Weekly:Reports of the pair have been floating around for years, ever since their respective divorces in 2014 and 2013.One insider close to the powerful leader tells Us Weekly the relationship is serious.
But given Trump s decision to practically hump Putin s leg and his (and his current campaign chair s) confirmed financial ties to Putin and his allies, it would be a wise decision for Ivanka Trump to avoid even the appearance of impropriety because of her heavy involvement in daddy s campaign.
Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets, Trump s son, Donald Jr., told a real estate conference in 2008, the Washington Post reports.
We see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.
Trump s reliance on Russian money to turn anything resembling a profit may explain why he repeatedly praises the Russian leader, even denying that he invaded the Ukraine despite reality proving him wrong in a 10-second Google search.
The Post explains Trump s relationship with Putin:The dynamic illustrates the extent to which Trump s worldview has been formed through the lens of commerce rather than the think tanks, government deliberations and international diplomatic conferences that typically shape the foreign policy positions of presidential candidates.It also reflects Trump s willingness to see world leaders through his own personal connections.
In a Republican Party in which an ability to stand up to Putin has been seen as a test of toughness, Trump s relationship with the Russian leader is instead one of mutual flattery.
Putin said in December that Trump was a colorful and talented person, a compliment that Trump said at the time was an honor.
The back-and-forth has continued.
In a mid-June rally, Trump cited those comments as the reason he will not reject the Russian leader.
A guy calls me a genius, and I m going to renounce?
Trump said.
I m not going to renounce him.
The next day in St. Petersburg, Putin again called Trump a colorful person and said he welcomed Trump s proposal for a full-scale resumption of U.S.-Russia ties.On the campaign trail, Trump has called for a new partnership with Moscow, overhauling NATO, the allied military force seen as the chief protector of pro-Western nations near Russia.
And Trump has surrounded himself with a team of advisers who have had financial ties to Russia.If the numerous reports regarding a down-low Putin/Murdoch relationship are true, and it seems they are, this could create gigantic problems for Trump as he continues his routine of supporting Russia in all things.
After all, a discreet vacation in Croatia would be a great time to discuss bigger plans like Trump s call on Russia to hack Hillary Clinton for him.If Deng s weak response years after the relationship was rumored to have begun and only after it began to get more press is true, if she has never met Putin as she says well, to use Trump s words, some people say Featured image via People Magazine/The Guardian