President Donald Trump told his account of a private dinner he had with James Comey to Lester Holt but now it appears a lot more happened that he didn t mention and a lot of what he said went on, didn t.According to Trump, the dinner was set for Comey to ask to keep his job.
On its face, this is farcical.
The FBI Director is appointed for terms of ten years so Comey didn t have to ask Trump to stay on.
Secondly, Trump claims he asked Comedy about any investigation into the president and that the answer was, You are not under investigation.
That doesn t make any more sense.Comey s side of the story is a lot different.
According to the New York Times, As they ate, the president and Mr. Comey made small talk about the election and the crowd sizes at Mr. Trump s rallies.
The president then turned the conversation to whether Mr. Comey would pledge his loyalty to him.
When Comey refused to offer such a pledge, Trump persisted.
While Comey did say he would be honest with Trump, the New York Times is reporting that, Mr. Comey declined to make that pledge.
Instead, Mr. Comey has recounted to others, he told Mr. Trump that he would always be honest with him, but that he was not reliable in the conventional political sense.
Loyalty has always been super important to Trump throughout his life.
As a businessman, it makes sense.
You need to know that your proprietary information is going to stay private.
When you are the leader of the United States (or any other country), this is not the same thing.
It reeks of dictatorship.Of course, the White House is pushing back hard on the claims that the dinner in question was not the way Comey describes it.
That is not surprising.
The White House seems to come away from most events, from the Inauguration to pretty much everything that happens everywhere, with a different view than the rest of us.Perhaps the best way to look at this is how Former Congressman John Dingell Tweeted:It's a bit wild to see the Trump administration begin the same way Nixon's ended.I'd be laughing my ass off if I weren't so damn worried.
John Dingell (@JohnDingell) May 12, 2017Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.