The nation and world are reeling from the fact that we are now facing a horrifying reality: Four years being ruled by the likes of Donald Trump and Mike Pence.
People are rightfully afraid of what he will do with regards to LGBTQ rights and women s rights, and the fact that he has mainstreamed bigotry on a level we haven t seen since the Civil Rights Era.
There is also something else that must be considered when it comes to Hillary s stunning loss: The future of the Democratic Party.We are now the party that is in turmoil, with Donna Brazile as the interim Chair since Debbie Wasserman-Schultz was ousted at the 2016 Democratic National Convention, after it was revealed that she worked to undermine Hillary s primary challenger, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders.
It s also clear that Hillary was not successful in picking up enough of the Obama coalition to pull of an electoral win, and the party needs to come together and figure out why, so that we only have to endure four years of Trump instead of eight.The first thing we have to is to do turn out in DROVES and make sure Democrats take the House of Representatives and the Senate back.
The second thing to do is to decide who our Party leaders are now, and devise a get out the vote strategy that ensures wins across the board in two years, and in four years.
Well there is one man who thinks he will be the one to do all of that and then some: Former DNC Chairman Howard Dean.
He tweeted:The dems need organization and focus on the young.
Need a fifty State strategy and tech rehab.
I am in for chairman again.
Howard Dean (@GovHowardDean) November 10, 2016He is right, of course.
The 50-state strategy that President Obama used so masterfully in both 2008 and 2012 is what gave Democrats the win.
This is especially true of the first two years of his presidency, when Democrats controlled the White House and both chambers of Congress.
Thanks to these facts, Democrats enjoyed the ability to offer up a literal cornucopia of progressive wet dreams, only to have all of that about to be destroyed now.If we let Howard Dean do as he promises, that can be our reality again.
It s time to organize, Democrats, and listen to the concerns and demands of the Sanders coalition, reclaim the Obama coalition, and take back power.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images