As the Democratic Primary wraps up and tensions continue to flare, Capitol Hill Democrats are quietly discussing a possible coup to oust DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz.Wasserman-Schultz, who has been seen as wildly divisive in the primary, is facing a mountain of criticism and uphill battles as she braces for a tough primary fight in Florida.According to an exclusive, in depth report from The Hill, Democratic Senators have been meeting together to draw up a plan to force the Florida Congresswoman to resign.
One Democratic Senator, who is pro-Clinton and who remained anonymous, told The Hill: There have been a lot of meetings over the past 48 hours about what color plate do we deliver Debbie Wasserman-Schultz s head on.
I don t see how she can continue to the election.
How can she open the convention?
Sanders supporters would go nuts.
It s worth noting that these Democratic lawmakers couldn t actually oust Wasserman-Schultz; only the National Committee could do that, and would rely on talks between Clinton and Sanders.Another Democratic Senator echoed these sentiments, saying if the party hopes to attract young people, Wasserman-Schultz must go: We need to get this figured out and come together.
Hillary s got the nomination.
She needs Bernie s energy.
It s time for her to accommodate.
It s time to pick hard-nosed people to cut through things and figure out a deal.
They [young people] need to know this is their party.
However, not all Democratic Senators are cooling to Wasserman-Schultz.
Senator Barbara Mikulski, who is retiring at the end of this term, said the Congresswoman has done a good job, and said, If you look at her platform committee appointments, she really gave a lot of room to Bernie supporters.
Senators Bill Nelson, Tim Kaine, Kirsten Gillibrand, Jeanne Shaheen, and others have gone on record with The Hill vehemently denying the attempted coup and pledging their support.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and House Democratic Chair Xavier Baccara have also expressed their support for the DNC Chairwoman.The only member of he Senate to endorse Sanders, Jeff Merkley of Oregon, has remained neutral, but chastised Wasserman-Schultz for adding gasoline to the fire after the contentious and disastrous Nevada convention.An aide to Joe Biden told The Hill that the Vice President supports her.The issue surrounding Debbie Wasserman-Schultz continues to divide Democrats with roughly two months to go until the national convention in Philadelphia.Featured image via Andrew Burton/Getty Images