Miracle Mattress of San Antonio wants everyone to know that they ll never forget Sept. 11, 2001.
To that end, they posted the most amazingly, disgustingly tone-deaf and just plain terrible commercial to commemorate the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil.
It was cheerful, it talked about the Twin Towers and used them to promote discounts on all their mattresses, and then And then they took it too far.
Way too far.
So impossibly far that we can t even see it from the boundaries of decency with the Hubble Space Telescope.Because using a national tragedy to promote a sale isn t classless enough.Watch it for yourself (TRIGGER WARNING):It was posted to a parody page aimed at shaming Miracle Mattress up one side and down the other for this, and remains viewable there.
It has been removed from social media elsewhere.Miracle Mattress has been shredded to confetti for this, to the point where they ve posted a letter of apology on their main Facebook page, and changed their background image to show part of that letter.
That s not enough for some of the people on their page, though.
Many of the comments below are from members of the military, people who were in NYC on that horrific day, and even some of the responders.They re rightfully angry and their comments are heart-wrenching.
For them, and for anybody with the tiniest micron of a heart, the apology rings hollow and false and just plain isn t enough.
Miracle Mattress last post on Facebook is a screenshot of a second letter from the owner, Mike Bonnano.
The company has closed the doors of their store indefinitely, will remain silent through the 9/11 anniversary, and then will issue a formal statement next week.That will be of major comfort to the people who are pissed off, offended, and hurt by that video, we re sure.
This will definitely cost the company business.
It might push them out of business, and for a company that s so clueless that the owner didn t know his own daughter made that video, perhaps that s for the best.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video