Jared Fogle, the man who lost a ton of weight eating sandwiches from Eat Fresh chain Subway and was later a celebrated spokesman for them, suffered one of the most spectacular falls from grace in recent history.
Fogle went from being Subway s favorite face to being the face of a sordid scandal in 0.2 seconds when he was investigated, and later pled guity to, charges of child pornography and child molestation.Well, Fogle s troubles are far from over.
You see, everyone hates people who victimize children even other criminals.
One such criminal let Fogle know this, too, by giving him what some would say he had coming to him in the rec yard of the prison facility in which they are both housed.
Fogle was unlucky enough to cross paths at Englewood FCI in Littleton, Colorado, with fellow inmate Steven Nigg, on January 29.
Nigg reportedly has big issues with child molesters, and made sure that Fogle got good and roughed up.
The former celebrity spokesman suffered a few punches to his nose that left him bloodied, as well as with a scratched up neck.
Nigg s family says that Fogle is, quote, lucky to be alive.
According to nephew Jimmy Nigg, Jr: My uncle was in a position to kill him.
No one was there.
He got him down, then walked away.
(My uncle s) not a violent guy.
He doesn t have a violent history.
He s sending a message (to pedophiles) is what he s doing.
A guy walks in with all this money and celebrity and instead of flying under the radar, he s going into the yard, walking around with big guys, saying no one can mess with me, flashing his money around.
It has been reported that Fogle, instead of doing like most imprisoned pedophiles and keeping his head down and his mouth shut, has been paying other inmates off to protect him.
Doesn t look like his cash is getting him much leverage, though, if this happened.Now, no one condones violence, but, let s face it, Fogle is scum.
Oh and the icing on the cake here?
It seems that without his steady diet of healthy Subway sandwiches, Fogle has gained 30 lbs in the three months he has spent behind bars.Good riddance, Jared.
You re well and truly done.Featured image via screen capture from YouTube