There were a lot of memorable moments where Donald Trump looked like a moron during the presidential debate on Monday, but one of the greatest was definitely when Hillary Clinton zinged him for being so unprepared.
Her exact words were, I think Donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate.
And yes, I did.
And you know what else I prepared for?
I prepared to be president.
If one thing was completely apparent during that debate, it s that Trump didn t invest any time in debate prep.
And apparently, Trump s advisers have just confirmed that.
According to The New York Times, several Trump advisers have come forward to say they d tried to get him to prepare for the debate, but Trump would get too bored and start talking about other things.
The Times wrote: Mr. Trump s debate preparation was unconventional.
Aides have introduced a podium and encouraged him to participate in mock debates, but he has not embraced them, focusing mostly on conversations and discussions with advisers.
There were early efforts to run a more standard form of general election debate-prep camp, led by Roger Ailes, the ousted Fox News chief, at Mr. Trump s golf course in Bedminster, N.J.
But Mr. Trump found it hard to focus during those meetings, according to multiple people briefed on the process who requested anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.
TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTrump had apparently been so difficult to keep on track that Ailes abandoned the whole thing and instead began discussing his own problems, as well as recounting political war stories, according to two people present for the sessions.
Basically, prep became a therapy session for Ailes because Trump doesn t have the ability to focus on more important things, like getting ready to lead a country.Trump s debate performance has been disappointing for his advisers, who say they spent time giving Trump responses to the attacks Clinton might make during the face-off.
They d given him several talking points and suggestions, but Trump didn t use any of it something that his advisers say hurt him tremendously.So there you have it, America.
A man who wants to be President of the United States doesn t even have the attention span or interest to prepare for such a critical position.
We all know how undeserving Trump is of the White House, but this news should scare you.
Trump is a ticking time bomb that has no idea what he s doing and he s not going to learn.Featured image via Spencer Platt / Getty Images