In new leaked audio that will make your skin crawl, Donald Trump s incredible misogyny is clearly displayed.When the Republican nominee bought the Miss USA contest he instituted a rule he calls the Trump rule in which he and his staff line all of the contestants up so that he can ogle them up close and only pick the most beautiful women to compete in the pageant.First, Trump lines up the women and starts dividing them based on their looks.
At one point in the audio Trump remarks that women in West Virginia don t know what cellulite is, a backhanded comment meant to fat-shame women who don t meet his personal standards.He also asked contestants to choose contestants they think are pretty enough to compete for the Miss USA title, essentially allowing certain contestants to judge the others.
Thus, the women were divided into groups based on which women made Trump horny.Trump went on to complain to the women about how the judges were supposedly judging the contest wrong and that the most beautiful women were left backstage instead of being picked to win.While Trump is obsessed with the women s looks, the contest has not been just about who is the prettiest.
Personality is also judged.But Trump thinks only looks matter, so he and his team inspected the women and jotted down notes on a pad of paper about each one.
So if a woman had a mole that Trump didn t like, it was more than likely marked down and used against her in the judging.Here s the audio via The Daily Beast:This is about as creepy as it gets, and as Raw Story points out, confirms what former Miss USA 2009 runner-up Carrie Prejean wrote in her book about Trump.
Prejean described the experience of Trump looking over the girls as humiliating.
We were told to put on our opening number outfits they were nearly as revealing as our swimsuits and line up for him on stage, she wrote.
Donald Trump walked out with his entourage and inspected us closer than any general ever inspected a platoon.
He would stop in front of a girl, look her up and down, and say, Hmmm.
Then he would go on and do the same thing to the next girl.
He took notes in a little pad as he went along.
Many of the girls found this exercise humiliating.
Some of the girls were sobbing backstage after he left, devastated to have failed even before the competition really began to impress The Donald.
Donald Trump is a creep who doesn t deserve a single vote from any woman in America.
As Bill Maher noted during his show on Friday, the only concrete position Trump has taken throughout his campaign is no fat chicks.
It s a cruel and creepy policy Trump has held his entire life and he should be punished for it in November.
He and the Republican Party need to learn that women come in all shapes and size and that women are sick of the bullshit way they are treated by them.Featured Image: Jonathan Bachman/Getty Images