A conversation with MSNBC host Craig Melvin got heated today when Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D., Texas) refused to say Thursday whether her Democratic colleague Rep. John Conyers (Mich.) should resign.
She was all over the map and was confused about what she thinks about Conyers saying, Congress should instead focus on how to change the system.
Straddling the fence has never been more fun to watch with these leftists who don t know what the hell to do.
My brain hurt after watching this interview What did she just say except to repeatedly say she s not taking a back seat over and over again We hear ya Sheila but what does that have to do with Conyers resigning?
MSNBC host Craig Melvin repeatedly asked the congresswoman about sexual harassment allegations against Conyers, but Jackson Lee steadfastly refused to say her colleague should step down: I believe the decision to go or come will be the decision of that member, she said.
As I understand it, Mr. Conyers is with his family.
I m praying for them.
I m praying for the women, and I m praying for them to make their decision.
But all those decisions are usually at the behest of the member and I expect that to be the case here.
Melvin asked if she thought the Democratic Party was sacrificing its credibility on standing up for women by not pushing out Conyers.
Jackson Lee denied that was the case.NICE PIVOT BY LEE TO BLAST TRUMP BUT WE RE NOT BUYING IT: Craig, absolutely not, because the story is not near concluded, she said before shifting to say what is appalling are the allegations against Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore and President Donald Trump.Melvin pressed Jackson Lee further on her position about the women who have come forward against Conyers, bringing up an African-American accuser who was on the Today show Thursday morning.
The Texas Democrat said Melvin was mishearing her because she is not taking a backseat on matters of sexual harassment.
She said Democrats would not be wimps on this issue.THE TRUTH WAS RIGHT THERE:WHEN CRAIG SAID THE CONYERS VICTIM LOOKS JUST LIKE US IT WAS ON!Jackson-Lee repeated AGAIN that she s not taking a backseat on matters of sexual harassment Yada, yada, yada