Donald Trump just did Russia a big favor to thank them for rigging the election in his favor.As the fallout continues from a CIA assessment that Russia hacked into our election system and helped Trump beat Hillary Clinton, Trump continued to make it clear that he will nothing more than Vladimir Putin s puppet in the White House by selecting a longtime friend of the Russian leader for America s top diplomatic officer.Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson has apparently been offered the job of Secretary of State after weeks of speculation and concern.But unlike some of the other choices for the position, Trump literally picked a guy who has a huge conflict of interest when it comes to Russia.
Not only does Tillerson and Big Oil stand to profit mightily from closer ties with Russia, Tillerson is a close friend of Putin and will likely treat Russia in a way that goes entirely against American interests and security.According to the New York Times,Mr.
Tillerson has worked to strengthen Exxon Mobil s ties with Russia.
The company has various joint ventures with the oil giant Rosneft around Russia, and has contributed to social programs in education and health.So Tillerson is deeply connected in Russia just like Donald Trump.
And like Trump, Tillerson also wants to remove sanctions against Russia that were put in place after Putin attack Ukraine and seized the Crimea.In fact, the intelligence community and national security experts are already concerned about Trump s pick.Intelligence expert Malcolm Nance appeared on MSNBC on Saturday to warn about the danger the choice of Tillerson represents to the nation.
Do we want a Secretary of State who is going to be working hand in hand first and foremost for the U.S. and Russian petrochemical industries?
Nance asked.
Most importantly, he has a very deep relationship with Vladimir Putin that extends back to when Putin was the director of the FSB, which is the modified version of the KGB.
Does this person who speaks very highly of Putin, who has got the Order of Friendship from Russia, will he accurately represent the interests of the United States first or will he still be part of that cabal from the Kremlin that Donald Trump appears to have assembled in his cabinet?
Here s the video via VidMe.Donald Trump s connections to Russia make him a threat to national security and our NATO alliances and he just proved that by choosing Tillerson as his Secretary of State, a friend of Putin s who will be reluctant to stand against Russia if Putin makes aggressive moves toward our European allies.It won t be Trump making the decisions for our country.
It will be Putin.Featured Image: Screenshot