Did Donald Trump convince Megyn Kelly s loyal fan base that she really isn t so fair and balanced after all, or is she just getting worn down by dirty politics?Many news personalities are already worn out covering this year s election, but Kelly has become part of the story.
She s survived sustained attacks from Trump by buckling down and focusing on her job, and her primetime show The Kelly File has never done better, averaging 2.5 million nightly viewers.
In a one-hour conversation, Kelly spoke to Variety for this week s Power of Women issue about Trump, wanting to interview Hillary Clinton and whether she ll remain at Fox News after her contract expires next year.Do you think there s a double standard in the news business when it comes to women?
Let me put it to you this way.
One of the biggest lessons I ve learned in the past 10 months is we have a long way to go.
We as women in the country where we are, how we think of ourselves, what we re willing to accept we have a ton of work to do.Do you think Trump s attacks on you are different because you re a woman?
I think the language is very different when he fights with women.Has it been hard for you?
It has not been enjoyable.
I wish it hadn t happened.
I hope it will stop his focus on me.
If he s determined not to stop, there s nothing I can do.
I don t like being the story.
I think it raises real First Amendment issues.
I ve seen what s happened with Michelle Fields [the former Breitbart News reporter allegedly grabbed by Trump s campaign manager] and in my own world, there s another side to this behavior.
It poses real risks to the person under attack.What did you think when you read his tweet that you owe him part of your salary?
I laughed.Isn t it sexist?
I ll leave that to someone else to label.
I ll say this.
I earn every dime of my salary.
I won t be giving it to anyone other than my three children.
The Kelly File was the No.
1 show [in cable] in the time slot and No.
2 in all of cable news from the time I launched it.
Trump called for people to boycott the show repeatedly.
The numbers went up.
When he realized the boycott had failed, he decided to take credit for the show s success.Has this made it harder to cover him?
I don t want to be reporting the news in a way that s fearful, or a way that seeks to curry favor or prove something.
It is difficult, because Trump generates a lot of controversy, often intentionally.
So you have to cover that as a reporter.
I ll channel surf.
I ll look at CNN, or I ll look at my pals Bill [Hemmer] and Martha [MacCallum], who are co-hosting my old show.
We re the same.
I give him no more coverage than the other journalists give him.You asked a series of pointed questions about the lawsuit against Trump University at the last debate you moderated.
Why do you think it took the media so long to report about that?
I think the media believed that Trump wasn t a serious contender for a long time until it became obvious they were wrong.
There is a lot to fact check Trump on that poses challenges.
Reporters only have so much time and energy for one particular subject, and I also think with Trump, he s a master strategist at distracting you.
If he says something for which he s gotten into real trouble, he ll say something else and the media is quick to run to the next shiny thing.He also doesn t always answer the question he s being asked.
It s hard.
You have to really stay on it.
You need a situation where you pick one topic and you go 10 questions deep I do that on my show.
That s how you d have to handle Trump.
Listen, it s been a long time since I ve interviewed him.Do you think you ll interview him again?
To be honest, every time I prepare an invitation to sit down with him, he attacks me on Twitter or elsewhere.
I had always been hoping I could reach out to him at a time when he wasn t angry.
I don t think it would be a good interview if he was angry at me but then he never stops with the attacks.
I was just about to ask him to sit down with me two weeks ago, but then he started up again out of the blue.After he gave the response about the size of his hands, it was remarkable how you kept a poker face.
You know, I haven t seen the debates.
I haven t seen the reaction shot.
There was definitely a moment where Bret [Baier] and I looked to each other and laughed.
Did that just happen?Did you still use Twitter?
I barely go on Twitter anymore.
I go on for the news.
I don t go to the mentions.
Whenever I go to the mentions, I m sorry I did.Have you felt supported by Fox News?
I have.
Fox News has been in a tough position.
They care about me and they are not afraid of a fight, but we re in unchartered territory.Have you had many conversations about this with your boss Roger Ailes?
I ve had many conversations with him about the situation.
I think it s been hard on him, too.
I don t think he s enjoyed one piece of this.
He can see what happens in my life when Trump starts off.
He really wants him to stop, but on the other hand, he s not going to run a news channel that doesn t provide access to the Republican frontrunner for president.Your contract is up after the election.
Have you decided if you re staying at Fox News?
I haven t.You might not stay?
Never say never.
I don t know what s going to happen.
I ve had a great 12 years here, and I really like working for Roger Ailes.
I really like my show, and I love my team.
But you know, there s a lot of brain damage that comes from the job.
There was probably less brain damage when I worked in the afternoon.
I was less well known.
I had far less conflict in my life.
I also have three kids who are soon going to be school from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.
I come to work at 3:30.
I like to see my children.
Having said that, my boss has been good about working with me to make me happy he knows I m a hard worker.
I ve had few problems here where I couldn t talk to him and say, Can we work something out?, and come away happy.Would you consider your own talk show?
I ve thought about that.
I don t know what the market looks like for that in 2016.
Many people have tried and failed.
I do love covering the news.
I just don t think that s the perfect thing for me.What about co-hosting a morning show like Today ?
You have to wake up so early.
The alarm goes off at 3:30 a.m.
When I did America s Newsroom, which started at 9 a.m., I remember saying to the makeup artist at the time, If you could only know the afternoon me, you d like me so much better.
Listen, this is a fickle business.
What if they called me and fired me tomorrow?
I have to keep my options open.Fox News won t do that.
One never knows.
Everything is rolling along fine, and then you call Huckabee F*ckabee and you re gone.
Via: VarietyOf course, Megyn Kelly wasn t fired for her mistake during the 2014 Huckabee interview.
Watch here: