Other than the wall and maybe the Muslim ban, the signature issue for Donald Trump the presidential candidate was repealing and replacing Obamacare, which he sold to his voters under the guise that it was about to implode this year, as a matter of fact.We are making great progress with healthcare.
ObamaCare is imploding and will only get worse.
Republicans coming together to get job done!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2017But while the Congressional Budget Office was scoring Trumpcare, and declared it a complete disaster which would result in tens of millions of people losing their health insurance, they completely put to bed the idea that Obamacare is about to implode.The paragraph isn t the easiest thing to read, especially if you have Donald Trump level reading skills, but here it is:Under current law, most subsidized enrollees purchasing health insurance coverage in the nongroup market are largely insulated from increases in premiums because their out-of-pocket payments for premiums are based on a percentage of their income; the government pays the difference.
The subsidies to purchase coverage combined with the penalties paid by uninsured people stemming from the individual mandate are anticipated to cause sufficient demand for insurance by people with low health care expenditures for the market to be stable.Vox translated it this way:Translating from wonk-ese, the subsidies offered to lower-income people under ACA are scaled both to income and to the local price of health insurance.
Which means that for heavily subsidized customers, the higher premiums don t drive people out of the marketplace.
And there are enough young and healthy people who qualify for generous subsidies to ensure a stable long-term risk pool.Despite the report, Trump is still going along with the idea that Obamacare is set to implode.
On Fox News on Monday, he said, It s a disaster if we let it go for another year, it ll totally implode.
Here s that video:.
@POTUS on #ObamaCare: It s a disaster.
If we let it go for another year, it ll totally implode.
pic.twitter.com/V0EmWafqHD Fox News (@FoxNews) March 13, 2017Really, that s not the least clever strategy in the world.
If you tell people they are going to lose their healthcare anyway, they might be more amenable to eating the shit sandwich the GOP is trying to feed them in place of healthcare.
We can t let the nation fall for it.
Obamacare is not about to implode.
We have time to make it better.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images