Bill Maher surprisingly thanked Donald Trump on Friday night for doing at least one good thing during this campaign.For years, conservative Christians have said that they want a president who shares their values and morals.
But that all went out the window in 2016 when Trump became the Republican nominee.But as we have witnessed, even though Trump definitely has no moral compass and has been nothing but a vulgar bully who incites violence and hate the evangelical community has embraced him anyway.And that made the Real Time host very giddy.
Before leaving this election behind, we must all thank Donald Trump for the one good thing he did, Maher began.
He exposed evangelicals, who are big Trump supporters, as the shameless hypocrites they ve always been.
Republicans didn t get to play the Jesus card this time around, Maher continued.
Because it s hard to bring up the Ten Commandments when your candidate spent his life breaking all of them.
Trump s commandments are like the regular commandments with LOL at the end.
Maher expressed how good it felt not having religion shoved down our throats throughout this election season as in other elections in the past.
And he wondered how so-called values voters can still support Trump, a man who literally has committed adultery on several occasions, brags about sexually assaulting women, and lies in every sentence he utters.
And as Maher explained, Trump definitely has nothing in common with Jesus.
Trump has nothing in common with Jesus, who was from the Middle East.
Trump wouldn t even let him in the country.
Jesus healed the blind, Trump mocks the handicapped.
Jesus turned the other cheek, Trump grabs your pussy.
Jesus turned water into wine, Trump just whines.
The Bible says, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor s wife.
Trump says, Fine, what about my daughter?
Maher pointed out that evangelicals had a full bench of religious nut jobs to choose from during the primaries, including Mike Huckabee, Rick Santorum, and Ted Cruz.
But they went for the thrice-married foul-mouthed, pussy-grabber, Maher said before going on to praise the Mormons for not supporting Trump.Here s the video via YouTube.Featured image via video screen capture