HILL larious!
If this was a Donald Trump pi ata, the media would be all over this story, making sure the entire country knew how unpopular he was in midwestern America.
But since these creative Iowan s choose to put Hillary in jail, which makes an undeniable statement about her credibility, you will likely only see this story here and a few other news sources who are willing to show you what real Americans think about Hillary Kyle Julin.
of Manilla, pulls his Hillary Clinton-masked friend Adam Corky, of Odeboldt, through the parade during the Arcadia Fire Department s 100th Anniversary Celebration on Saturday.
The group received both accolades and criticisms for handing out water ballons to throw at the candidate.
(Carrolls Paper)IT GETS BETTER The men were handing out WATER BALLOONS to throw at the caged Hillary!It was a typical summer celebration in small-town Iowa.
The sun was shining on children carrying bags full of candy as the Arcadia Fire Department was celebrating its 100th anniversary on Saturday with a parade, a party in the park and a big water fight that would serve as the grand finale.A young blond boy, no more than 8 years old, ran out into the street near the intersection of West Center and South Gault streets because one float was handing out water balloons.
The child grabbed his balloon, took aim and did his best Nolan Ryan impression as he fired the balloon at a man dressed in an orange jumpsuit and Hillary Clinton mask while standing on a platform inside bars, fencing and barbed wire above a Hillary For Prison sign tacked onto the side.Bull s eye.The prideful smile of a job well done was written all over the boy s face.Some in the crowd were laughing and cheering as the float rolled by, but others could be heard moaning and grumbling that it was over the top or a bit too much.
It was my idea, Kyle Julin of Manilla said.
Pretty much me and Josh (Reetz).
It took us about a day-and-a-half to build.
Julin said he, Reetz and Adam Corky (Clinton impersonator) are not affiliated with any official political organization.
Julin said he s an independent and as of March 2014 Reetz was a registered Democrat.Julin said the crew had been throwing around the idea of entering the parade for a while.Via: Gateway Pundit