Senator John McCain just couldn t help himself.
While millions of Americans were praying for his recovery, after he was diagnosed with brain cancer earlier this week, McCain took to Twitter to admonish President Trump over his decision to end a failed program that was supposed to train, fund and arm Syrians to fight Assad and ISIS.The program has been a complete failure and cost Americans millions of dollars.The Hill In February, 2012, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), who both serve on the Senate Armed Services committee urged that the United States arm opposition forces in Syria.
War-hawks McCain and Graham argued that arming rebel fighters in the country could help beat back a Syrian government with close ties to Iran.
Breaking Syria apart from Iran could be as important to containing a nuclear Iran as sanctions, Graham said at a press conference in Kabul, according to the New York Times.
If the Syrian regime is replaced with another form of government that doesn t tie its future to the Iranians, the world is a better place.
Where have we heard that strategy before?
Oh yeah in Libya and in Iraq.
How did that work out for America and for the Middle East John?
McCain was apparently well enough by yesterday to warn tweeted his sparring partners in Congress that he d be back soon and told them to stand-by!
Goodness knows, America couldn t survive without the votes and guidance of Trump-hater and leader of the Republican we don t have to do what the American voters elected us to do opposition party.I greatly appreciate the outpouring of support unfortunately for my sparring partners in Congress, I'll be back soon, so stand-by!
John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) July 20, 2017Only one hour later, war-hawk McCain fired back with another tweet admonishing President Trump for ending the failed program created to assist the Syrian opposition.
McCain accused President Trump of caving to Russia (proving once again that McCain is anything but a team player when it comes to our president).Reports admin ending prgm to assist Syrian opposition irresponsible, short-sighted& plays into Russia, Assad's hands https://t.co/N7KVqn1VD6 John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) July 20, 2017It s great to know that one of Trump s biggest opponents, who happens to also be a member of the same political party, isn t going to let a life-threatening diagnosis keep him from offering constant criticism of our president h/t Gateway Pundit