President-elect Donald Trump needs his Twitter account confiscated as soon as possible.
Every time he sends out an impulsive, ego-driven tweet, he is either embarrassing the country or putting it in grave danger.
A need for Trump s Twitter privileges to be taken away was perfectly displayed earlier this week, when Trump started talking about nuclear weapons.Trump was first inspired by a statement made by Russian leader Vladimir Putin, which resulted in him tweeting that the United States needs to greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability.
Then, Trump tried to clarify his comments and only became more irresponsible.
During a phone call, he told MSNBC s Mika Brzezinski, let it be an arms race.
We will outmatch them at every pass and outlast them all.
Terrifying.Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders took Trump head on Friday afternoon, when he criticized the future President of the United States for his idiocy.
Taking to Trump s preferred announcement medium, Sanders tweeted: Congress must not allow the Tweeter in Chief to unleash a dangerous and costly nuclear arms race.
TwitterIt should be no surprise that Sanders would pummel Trump on this Sanders made his feelings about nuclear weapons known last year when he said: We are spending hundreds of billions of dollars maintaining 5,000 nuclear weapons.
I think we need major reform in the military making it more cost effective but also focusing on the real crisis that faces us.
Sanders is spot on to call Trump out on how deadly his lack of experience and decision-making skills are and Trump is definitely more of a Tweeter in Chief than a Commander in Chief.
He hasn t shaped up at all to be a respectable future leader since he won the election.The fact that Trump is being so reckless with the future of the country (and the world) is reason enough to believe that we ve clearly elected the wrong person and this is something even Trump s supporters can t deny.
Nuclear weapons are nothing to be messing with on social media.
George Shultz, former Secretary of State under Ronald Reagan, has called them the world s biggest threat.
In his book, Shultz wrote: Their effect in preventing wars has been overrated and reports of the damage they cause tend to be brushed aside to depend on nuclear deterrence indefinitely into the future, especially when other means of deterrence are available, is foolhardy.
It s obviously a book that Trump should be reading.
But since Trump doesn t read books unless they re about Adolf Hitler, maybe he ll see Sanders tweet.Featured image is a screenshot