Donald Trump got a late start on his incoherent Twitter whining Sunday but better late than never, we suppose.
Once again, our so-called President is doing his best to convince the American people that the investigation into his administration s collusion with Russia is fake while simultaneously complaining that Republicans aren t doing enough to protect him from it.
As the phony Russian Witch Hunt continues, two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold, Democrats and Russians!
President Snowflake said, adding that It s very sad that Republicans, even some that were carried over the line on my back, do very little to protect their President.
As the phony Russian Witch Hunt continues, two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold, Democrats and Russians!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2017It's very sad that Republicans, even some that were carried over the line on my back, do very little to protect their President.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 23, 2017The Donald has been doing his best lately to make his Twitter timeline a safe space, banning anyone who expresses a dissenting view (a gross violation of their constitutional rights) but no matter how much he tries, the disdain felt for him by Americans still manages to overcome his efforts to hide from how the country feels about him:Emperor Trump has no clothes.
Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) July 23, 2017It s actually hilarious that Trump is now whining on Twitter about losing the support of his very own party SAD!
35% SAD!
(@williamlegate) July 23, 2017Did you seriously just write that?
Vikki V (@MissVikkiV) July 23, 2017You feel better buddy?
You get that out of your system?
What a way to contribute.
Good job.
Quinn Brown (@JustinQBrown) July 23, 2017Please show me the line in the Constitution that says members of Congress must protect their President.
And protect from what?
Lawrence O Donnell (@Lawrence) July 23, 2017Maybe Republicans are growing a spine and realize that Trump s approval rating will be a liability for them in 2018.
David Putnam (@davidmputnam) July 23, 2017These tweets sound like they are coming out of Pyongyang.
You want Dear Leader loyalty.
Dani Bostick (@danibostick) July 23, 2017grow the fuck up.
you re 71. act like.
just once.
jesus fucking christ.
cx (@cxcope) July 23, 2017Do you need a safe space you half-sentient ball of Cheeto-dusted phlegm?
Alicia Lutes (@alicialutes) July 23, 2017Yeah, so hate to break it to you, but their job is not to protect their President.
LT (@TassmanianD) July 23, 2017Obama is so classy and his beautiful wife loves him It must be really weird to have to purchase wives.
pic.twitter.com/eRIE4LOPA6 SteveBannonsNose (@PrezBannonsNose) July 23, 2017You re right.
They are disloyal.
They don t deserve you.
Teach them a lesson and resign.
VITW (@JosephWelch3rd) July 23, 2017Always the victim.
Poor Donnie.
SAD ?
?
?
Barbara (@MorBeeK) July 23, 2017HAHAHA.
HAHAHA.
Funniest damn tweet ever.
Joann Kline (@JoannKline) July 23, 2017Ah you poor JC beyond the wall (@JC_in_Calgary) July 23, 2017Trump is really getting nervous lately amid reports that he is desperately seeking ways to pardon not only his family and other co-conspirators but himself something innocent people do not investigate.It s time for Republicans to stand up to The Donald and impeach him.
As Trump said during his campaign, you either have a country or you don t. Most Americans would prefer to still have a country when this is all over.Featured image via Getty Images/screengrab