Donald Trump is nigh-universally recognized as a walking, talking, national security disaster.
From The Donald s promise to our allies that we can t be trusted if he becomes President, to his threat to essentially throw out the Iran nuclear deal by modifying it until it is meaningless, to his almost salivating over the thought of pushing the big red button and unleashing our nuclear arsenal on, presumably, the first world leader to make him angry on Twitter, The Donald has succeeded in getting himself ranked as one of the top 10 global security risks.It s gotten to the point that fifty top Republican officials have now signed a letter acknowledging that Trump would put at risk our country s national security and well-being.
According to these Republicans, many of whom were top aides or cabinet members for George W. Bush (so they are well aware that a President can be a top national security risk), Trump lacks the character, values and experience to be President and that he would be the most reckless president in American history.
The NY Times reports:The letter says Mr. Trump would weaken the United States moral authority and questions his knowledge of and belief in the Constitution.
It says he has demonstrated repeatedly that he has little understanding of the nation s vital national interests, its complex diplomatic challenges, its indispensable alliances and the democratic values on which American policy should be based.
And it laments that Mr. Trump has shown no interest in educating himself.
None of us will vote for Donald Trump, the letter states, though it notes later that many Americans have doubts about Hillary Clinton, as do many of us.
Among the most prominent signatories are Michael V. Hayden, a former director of both the C.I.A.
and the National Security Agency; John D. Negroponte, who served as the first director of national intelligence and then deputy secretary of state; and Robert B. Zoellick, another former deputy secretary of state, United States trade representive and, until 2012, president of the World Bank.
Two former secretaries of homeland security, Tom Ridge and Michael Chertoff, also signed, as did Eric S. Edelman, who served as Vice President Dick Cheney s national security adviser and as a top aide to Robert M. Gates when he was secretary of defense.Robert Blackwill and James Jeffrey, two key strategists in Mr. Bush s National Security Council, and William H. Taft IV, a former deputy secretary of defense and ambassador to NATO, also signed.
He is unable or unwilling to separate truth from falsehood, the letter says.
He does not encourage conflicting views.
He lacks self-control and acts impetuously.
He cannot tolerate personal criticism.
He has alarmed our closest allies with his erratic behavior.
All of these are dangerous qualities in an individual who aspires to be president and commander in chief, with command of the U.S. nuclear arsenal.
Many of the signatories declined to add their names to a similar letter in March, but say Trump s promise that Russia would be rewarded for hacking his political enemies and his vow to be selective with which allies we defend caused many to change their minds.John B. Bellinger III, who served as Ms. Rice s legal adviser at the National Security Council and the State Department and who drafted the letter, says that some of the signers will vote for Clinton, and some will not vote, but all agree Trump is not qualified and would be dangerous.
Trump indeed would be dangerous, not just to our allies but to average Americans thanks to his proposed Muslim ban and his unabashed attempts to prop up the Ku Klux Klan by warmly embracing their support among, of course, other things.You can read the full letter below: Donald Trump National Security Letter by German Lopez on ScribdFeatured image via Getty Images/Scott Eisen