The current occupant of the White House is occupying a golf course again, marking this (a three day weekend for him) his 21st visit to a golf course as president.
Just after gutting health care for up to 24 million Americans, then throwing a kegger for Republicans who were complicit in an attack on their own constituents, Donald Trump decided to take a vacay and go golfing.This morning Trump tweeted from his social media podium, Rather than causing a big disruption in N.Y.C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N.J. this weekend.
Also saves country money!
Rather than causing a big disruption in N.Y.C., I will be working out of my home in Bedminster, N.J. this weekend.
Also saves country money!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 5, 2017So, after sticking a knife in the middle class and lower-income Americans by passing Trumpcare through the House, the former reality show star traipsed off to his fancy golf club which costs members $300,000 a shot.
Again, that was after he gave the top 2 percent a trillion dollar tax cut while gifting the bottom 40 percent with having to pay for it with their health care.
Are we tired of all this winning yet?
Apparently, the 70-year-old alleged president is so he s taking a break.Trump is spending a long weekend at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, NJ.This is his 21st visit to a golf course as president.
https://t.co/6Cijy24jLr Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 5, 2017While the amateur president claims he ll be working at his home which is not really his home since he s supposed to reside in the White House, his work day doesn t look very filled up, according to Politico.TRUMP S SCHEDULE: President Donald Trump is at his Bedminster Golf Club in New Jersey and has no public events scheduled.That s all that is listed on his schedule.
The former reality show star thinks being leader of the free world is a 9-5 type of gig with an extra day off for knifing the poor and middle class.During the same period of time in Barack Obama s presidency, he golfed once.
One time.
And Donald Trump repeatedly disparaged him for it.
As of April 2nd, Trump spent nine consecutive weekends at Trump-owned properties, bringing up once more his mounting conflicts of interest.Trump was already in New York City where he could have spent time with his wife, who is totally in love with him, and their son, Barron.
But, according to Trump, he didn t want to cause a disruption.
Now far be it from us to call him a Big Old Liar, but Trump didn t remain in NYC, because everyone there hates him.
And that may or may not include his wife.
Who knows.It s really bad optics to screw the poor over then go golfing with wealthy people.
To Trump, saving us money means costing us more money.
We re living in an alt-reality where facts don t matter anymore.Photo by Ian MacNicol/Getty Images.