Matt Lauer gave Donald Trump a chance to stop acting like a petulant child but he only doubled down.On Wednesday morning after bragging about somehow being picked by Time Magazine as their person of the year, Trump was asked by Lauer if he would be better off not watching Saturday Night Live.
You know, because Trump has more important shit he should be dealing with like the presidency.
Can we agree, Mr. President-elect Trump, that at this stage it would be better for you to simply stop watching SNL?
Lauer asked.
As opposed to watching it and then complaining about it?
As we all know, Trump has repeatedly thrown a temper tantrum every time he watches Alec Baldwin s perfect impersonation of him on the longtime comedy skit show.After Baldwin s latest performance, Trump took to Twitter to whine.Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can t get any worse.
Sad Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016But Trump refused to answer Lauer s question and proceeded to trash the show instead.
There s nothing funny about it, Trump claimed, even though millions of Americans watch the show because it is hilarious.
The skits are terrible.
I like Alec but his imitation of me is terrible.
But you can t bring yourself to stop watching it?
Lauer tried again.And this time, Trump made a veiled threat suggesting that he ll try to force Saturday Night Live off the air once he gets into office if the show doesn t stop mocking him.
Frankly, the way the show is going now and when you look at the work they re doing who knows how long that show s gonna be on?
It s a terrible show.
Here s the video via YouTube.When Trump talks like this it needs to be taken seriously.
Freedom of speech is in serious jeopardy and Trump is actng like a typical dictator who can t handle being the butt of a joke.Former Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi also whined about being the the subject of satire, and that led to Bassem Youssef, who hosted a Daily Show-like political satire program, to be arrested and persecuted.
His show was eventually forced off the air.
It sounds like Trump is laying the groundwork to do the same to shows that make fun of him.Featured Image: Ty Wright/ Getty Images