Clayton Denny is a former U.S. Marine who moved to Sheridan, Wyoming in August to work as a personal trainer and exercise coach.
After a bike ride through town on Saturday evening, Clayton decided to cap off his night with a visit to a local bar known as the Beaver Creek Saloon.While there, he overheard Jacob Olson, 26, and Dylan Dygert, 21, say a racial slur.
Denny, who is of African-American and Chippewa Cree descent, approached the two men to confront them about it.All seemed to be going well as Denny shook hands with one of the men.
But then something changed as the encounter became more heated.
The bartender ordered them to take the argument outside.
The trio resumed their argument in an alley.
Denny turned and walked away and that s when Olson and Dygert attacked.
A push, white flash, bits and pieces of pain, Denny recalled about what happened.
Dygert and Olson pushed Denny to the ground and began kicking and punching him while yelling racial epithets at him.
They beat him so badly that Denny thought he might die.Even Olson believed he may have left Denny for dead as a witness told police that Olson told someone on the phone that he may have killed someone.Aside from scratches, bruises, and cuts, Denny suffered a broken orbital bone, which he would need surgery for in order to drain fluid and clean out an infection.
He also suffered two swollen eyes, multiple cuts on his head that had to be stapled, and a concussion.Olson and Dygert have both been arrested by Sheridan police and are being held on $20,000 bond.Of course, they claimed they only attacked and viciously beat Denny in self defense.
However, they didn t know that the incident had been caught on video, which clearly showed that Olson and Dygert went after Denny after he had already turned and walked away from them.
In other words, Denny wasn t a threat and Olson and Dygert lied to police in an effort to save their racist asses.Both men face 10 years in prison for the racist attack and hate crime charges are being considered by the County Attorney s Office.
And if they don t charge them with a hate crime, the Department Of Justice should do it for them.But due to this disgusting attack, Denny says he and his girlfriend have received tremendous support from the Sheridan community.
I do want people to know that the community of Sheridan has been awesome.
We ve had people stopping by all weekend and all week, just saying, you know giving their condolences and helping us out.
It sounds like Denny has all the support he needs to get through this ordeal.
Let s just hope Olson and Dygert use their time in prison wisely to think about what they did and learn from it.Featured Image: Billings Gazette