The rally in Virginia on Tuesday for Donald Trump went down as well as one would expect.
The GOP presidential nominee, who was also a recipient of five deferments during the Vietnam War, bragged that one of his supporters who is a retired Lieutenant Colonel, gifted him with a Purple Heart medal.
Just to be clear, this happened at the same venue in which Donald kicked a baby out of the rally.
I said to him, Is that like the real one, or is that a copy?
Donald said.Politico reports: Trump recounted the exchange, remarking that the man, who he identified as retired Lt. Col. Louis Dorfman said, That s my real Purple Heart.
I have such confidence in you.
And I said, Man, that s like big stuff.
I always wanted to get the Purple Heart, Donald continued.
This was much easier.
At that point, Donald invited Dorfman to appear onstage with him on camera, so the two men then posed for photographs with Trump giving a thumbs-up before placing the Purple Heart back in his pocket.And none of this is weird (wink wink) after Donald s attacks on Humayun Khan s parents, whose son actually earned a Purple Heart.
The Army Captain was remembered by soldiers who served with him as a selfless patriot.At any rate, Trump then told the crowd that he had asked Dorfman to speak, but that the man responded, saying, No, sir.
I d just like you to keep saying what you ve been saying.
Watch courtesy of Politico:.
@realDonaldTrump: "A man came up to me, and he handed me his Purple Heart" pic.twitter.com/ZoFf2qysjK POLITICO (@politico) August 2, 2016Donald did not receive an actual Purple Heart today in Virginia as he stated.
NBC reporter Katy Tur tweeted, The man who gave Trump his purple heart told me earlier today, it was a copy of his purple heart.
In Tur s next tweet she says Dorfman gifted Trump with the medal to defend the bombastic GOP candidate after he attacked a Gold Star family, which totally misses the point.
It s never OK to disparage anyone who sacrificed their lives for our country.The man gave Trump his purple heart to remind him that "more than one vet" died for the USA.
It was to defend Trump for the Khan fallout.
Katy Tur (@KatyTurNBC) August 2, 2016Flashback: In 2004, Virginia delegates mocked John Kerry for his Purple Heart.
A prominent Virginia delegate handed out heart-covered bandages to delegates, who wore them on their chins, cheeks, the backs of their hands as well as other places.Image via screen capture.