What s happening in Flint, Michigan is beyond heartbreaking.
Residents cannot drink their water due to lead contamination, but to add insult to injury, the water was originally declared safe.
Then, as children began getting sick and the water was exposed as being toxic, government officials, including a slow to react Gov.
Rick Snyder (R) finally thought they should do something about the toxic levels.
To be blunt, what s happening there is criminal, and someone needs to be held responsible.
President Obama has even declared a state of emergency.Stepping up big time to help the residents of Flint is none other than the legendary artist Cher.
She has been very outspoken in her feelings about what s been happening.
Now, she s not only voicing her opinion, but putting action to her words, she s bringing fresh water to the people there who so desperately need it.Partnering with natural spring water company Icelandic Glacial, Cher is donating 181,440 bottles of water to Flint.
According to the press release: After reading about the catastrophic situation in Flint, a city of 100,000 people who have not had clean water in over a year, Cher contacted her friend Brad Horwitz, an investor in Icelandic Glacial, who reached out to the company s Chairman and Co-Founder, Jon Olafsson, about Cher s desire to purchase water for Flint s residents.
Icelandic Glacial committed to doubling Cher s purchase which is being trucked in to Michigan beginning Monday, January 18th.The water will reach The Food Bank of Eastern Michigan (www.fbem.org) beginning Wednesday, January 20th.
FBEM will immediately begin the distribution process to those who need it most for drinking, cooking and washing.
The water will go directly to community centers, food banks and fire houses focusing in on low income housing areas where 40% of Flint s population is living below the poverty line.
The bottles, once finished, will return to the food banks and will be recycled with money raised going right back into the food banks.
Cher stated: This a tragedy of staggering proportion and shocking that it s happening in the middle of our country.
I am so grateful that Icelandic Glacial has come on-board to help the city of Flint.
I cannot wait for the water to get there to help these people who have been poisoned because the water they ve been getting out of their taps has been polluted for so long and remains that way without the state or the federal government stepping in with any substantial plan to resolve this problem.
While this doesn t solve Flint s horrific water crisis, it will definitely be a welcomed effort and is sorely needed.
The citizens of Flint have been poisoned, and in the most horrible way possible by the people who are elected to work in their best interests.
However, thanks to the efforts of Cher and Icelandic Glacial, fresh water is on the way.Featured image: YouTube