The Republican Party s response to making America a safer place following the most devastating mass shooting in modern America has been truly despicable.Just a week after the tragic shooting at a nightclub in Orlando, Florida an incident which left almost 50 dead and dozens injured the GOP decided to strike down an attempt to pass gun control legislation yesterday.
As Republicans went to lunch and then continued on with their lives without a care in the world, Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) led Democrats in staging a 25-hour sit-in on the House of Representatives floor in protest.The GOP s reaction to this powerful protest has been just as disappointing as its response to senseless gun violence.
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan commented on the sit-in and called it a publicity stunt and a cry for attention.
Now, a radio host for the National Rifle Association has taken those comments a step further and compared the Democrats fighting to protect Americans from gun violence to criminals and terrorists.
On the NRA s radio show Cam & Company, host Cam Edwards claimed that just like terrorists and criminals, the Democrats participating in the sit-in were not following rules.
He said: So in order to push legislation that the sponsors say would not have prevented the attacks in Orlando, Florida, they re also going to flout the House rules.
Kind of like, you know, criminals and terrorists flout the rules that we have in place right now and will continue to do so?
Edwards also said that those Democrats were in violation of House rules on photography because they continued to post the event after House Republicans turned off C-SPAN cameras.To make Edwards comments even more infuriating, he actually tried to educate Rep. Lewis, who is a civil rights legend, on civil rights movements.
Edwards whitesplained the Democrats sit-in: I don t know what to call it, a sit-in, again, generally speaking we saw the sit-ins in the civil rights movement that were advocating for individuals being able to enjoy the same rights that other Americans enjoyed, right?
That s what the protests were, that s what we re sitting at this lunch counter and we re not leaving until we get served.
Not we re sitting at this lunch counter and we re not leaving until you remove this item from the menu.We re going to sit right here and we re not leaving until you recognize us as human beings, as Americans who have the same rights that that guy has over there and that she has over there.
That s what the sit-ins were about in the civil rights movement.
This, on the other hand, this isn t Congress demanding more rights for Americans, this isn t Congress demanding rights for themselves, this is Congress demanding power.
These are House Democrats demanding the authority and the power to ignore the Fifth Amendment when they see fit, to view the Bill of Rights as an impediment to lawmakers, to treat it as such and to try to degrade.
Kind of like what they say with ISIS right?
Blind white privilege is an ugly, terrifying thing.
You can watch Edwards disgusting comments below:No matter what the GOP serves up, Lewis and his fellow Dems have vowed to keep the pressure on the Republicans to change gun laws.
Lewis promised that the fight would continue immediately after the July 4th holiday: On July 5, we re going to continue to push, to pull, stand up and if necessary, to sit down.
Featured image via Elizabeth Warren Twitter