Watch here:@United overbook #flight3411 and decided to force random passengers off the plane.
Here's how they did it: pic.twitter.com/QfefM8X2cW Jayse D. Anspach (@JayseDavid) April 10, 2017Many readers on our 100 Percent FED UP Facebook page were enraged to think that we would even suggest that there could be more to the story than what was being reported.
We were curious about what happened before Dr. Dao was dragged out of his seat.
To be clear, we don t condone the abuse of any passenger on a paid flight by airport police, but we still believed there was more to the story than what was being shown in a video making the rounds on social media, that was taken by a passenger on the flight from Chicago to Louisville.We re wondering how long the United Airlines passengers would have put up with Dr. Dao s refusal to leave the plane before they became involved.
After 1 or 2 hours of Dr. Dao s refusal to leave (even though he accepted to those terms when he agreed to fly with United), would the passengers have taken matters into their own hands after hours of listening to him refusing to leave?
How long would the passengers have allowed Dr. Dao to delay their flight before demanding someone take action?Here s the latest UPDATE:The tense moment Dr David Dao argued with a Chicago cop just seconds before being humiliatingly hauled off an overbooked United Airlines flight has been captured on camera.Footage of Dr Dao being unceremoniously dragged from a plane at Chicago O Hare International Airport on Sunday has traveled around the world, leading to mass condemnation of United and its policies.But exactly what happened in the moments leading up to the doctor being pulled from the fight by his arms was unknown.Until now.The new video, recorded by a female passenger sitting directly behind Dr Dao, starts with a flight attendant and police officer standing in the aisle.The doctor is seen gesturing with his arm towards the cop, while talking on his cellphone.
I won t go.
I m a physician I have to work tomorrow, eight o clock, he is heard saying.Dr Dao then tells the person he is talking to on the phone: I I tell you make a lawsuit against United Airlines.
The officer is then heard in the video again asking Dr Dao to leave.
No I am not going, he replies, shaking his head angrily.The cop then says: Well I have to drag you You know how this is going to end up happening, right?
Dao then replies: You can drag me, I m not going.
I m staying right here.
You ll have to drag me.
The cop then says, I m just telling you, it s going to be a lot harder for you , before Dao interrupts with: Yes I know that, I d rather go to jail.
You d rather go to jail than just getting off, the cop replies, while sounded confused at the comment.
Yes, Dao is heard saying.The two then continue speaking for a few more seconds, with Dr Dao mentioning he had flown to Chicago from Los Angeles and was desperate to get home, before the video cuts off.Here s the video: Daily Mail