Michele Bachmann has been pretty quiet since leaving office under a cloud of scandal and that was a damn shame.
She was one of the most perfect examples of how utterly hate-filled and detached from reality the right-wing has become.
But apparently Bachmann has remembered that it was her GAWD!-given mission to warn America about all the threats the voices in her head have been making up for years.Last week, Michele warned us about Obama s status as the Anti-Christ and his plan to cancel the elections and crown himself King.
This week, GAWD!
has told her that the evil Muslims.
I kid you not, made up the entire Syrian civil war: This clearly is an invasion, Bachmann said.
This is a planned invasion, not only in Europe but also in the United States, I believe for the specific purpose of destroying Western Christendom.
The solution, of course, is to close all the borders to people with brown skin immigrants just to be safe.
And for those of you who are about to say I m race-baiting, during her rant, Bachmann insisted that we needed to pause immigration just like Calvin Coolidge did in 1924.
That pause , incidentally, was targeted specifically to preserve the ideal of American homogeneity (AKA White Supremacy ) by allowing in good immigrants from Western Europe but keeping out the bad ones from Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
That s what Michele Bachmann thinks is a solution.
Why?
Because she s a fucking racist like a great deal of the American right-wing.If this fact upsets you, too bad.But Bachmann wasn t done being a total asshole:Bachmann said that countries with large Muslim minorities like France now experience Islamic jihad 24/7, terrorist bloodbath attacks 24/7, warning that the same thing is coming to the U.S. unless we decide to have no more immigration into the United States.
I m sure this will come as a surprise to France.
They ll be wondering why they haven t heard about these 24/7 bloodbaths.
Maybe they re only happening in the mythical no go zones?
Bachmann continues: The more that come in, the more they act upon their religious convictions and their stated religious convictions, she said.
The imams from the original countries that they come from, they recruit and send these guys to come in and to bring about this destruction.
Right now in Europe it s called a rape culture that s coming into Sweden and Germany and all across Europe for the specific purpose of Islamizing these countries, and they are falling.
I wish I could be surprised that a conservative like Bachmann will only acknowledge the existence of rape culture as long as she can blame it on Muslims.
Islamists have a plan, Bachmann later added.
They have a plan to destroy Western Christendom.
It s called civilization jihad.
By bringing Islamists into our country and destroying us from in, they don t need to just have a nuclear bomb.
If they send their invading army into our countries and if young men are doing what they did on New Year s Eve in Cologne, Germany, and other places where they are literally sexually attacking and raping and groping women and causing them to fear, we are looking at a completely ramped-up level of invasion one like we have never seen before.
There are days that I truly and profoundly wish I wasn t an atheist.
Why?
Because it would give me great comfort to believe that after she dies, Jesus Christ will personally walk up to Bachmann in the afterlife and, after explaining to her exactly how horrible of a human being she was in life, send her to Hell along with most of the Republican Party.Hey, a man can dream, right?Featured image courtesy of Newsweek