Having been quiet since his presidential campaign went down in flames in 2012, Mitt Romney is suddenly back in the spotlight after forcefully condemning current Republican front-runner Donald Trump.
But while it s great that Romney sees the inherent bigotry in Trump s message and wants to condemn it, there s just one problem: Romney loved Trump back when he was running for president.Or as Trump himself recently crudely put it: He was begging for my endorsement.
I could have said, Mitt, drop to your knees, and he would have dropped to his knees.
He was begging.
True.
He was begging me.
In an interview with CNN s Gloria Borger, Romney was forced to defend his earlier opportunistic praise for Trump and things quickly went off the rails.When Borger mentioned Trump s endorsement, Romney said at the time Trump didn t seem that bad.
Like a good journalist, Borger didn t let him off the hook.
Instead, she noted that there were already signs that Donald Trump was a world-class scumbag.
After all, he was the godfather of the Obama birther movement.
Romney, in the sort of hypocrisy he became known for during his election campaign, managed to remind us why we didn t vote for him in the first place.
Trump s birtherism wasn t a big deal, but attacking Megyn Kelly is.Well, no.
I think that s a very different thing than calling Mexicans rapists, than saying that Muslims are not going to be allowed into the country as immigrants, than mocking a disabled reporter, going after women and saying oh, she asks tough questions because she was in her menstrual cycle is highly offensive.
I said I disagreed with him.
There are political views about one another where we re going to disagree, but what he has said during this campaign, that George W. Bush is a liar, that John McCain isn t a hero.
I mean, he said some things that are completely, totally outrageous.So when he makes racist attacks against Obama during Romney s presidential campaign, Romney has no problem, but now that he is undermining the GOP s effort to appeal to minorities or calling George W. Bush a liar, suddenly Romney is feeling very sanctimonious.It was no secret that Mitt Romney spent much of his campaign publicly finger wagging at his voters for obsessing over Obama s birth certificate, while at the same time playing up the controversy at every opportunity.
In August of 2012, Romney even took it a step further and stoked the flames himself with this appalling joke.
I love being home, in this place where Ann and I were raised.
Where both of us were born No one s ever asked to see my birth certificate.
They know that this is the place that we were born and raised.
So when Romney says he disagrees with Trump now on the issues, it s only because four years ago, Trump s disgusting racism could be used as a means to an end whip up the racists and get them to the polls.
It s hard to imagine a person having less credibility on the issue of integrity than Mitt Romney.Watch the interview below via CNN (Birther comments begin around the 4:20 mark)Featured image via CNN