Excerpts from Hillary Clinton s closed-door paid speeches, including to financial firms, appeared to be made public for the first time on Friday when WikiLeaks published thousands of hacked emails from her campaign chairman.The speech transcripts, a major subject of contention during the Democratic primary, include quotes from Clinton about her distance from middle-class life ( I m kind of far removed ); her vision of strategic governing ( you need both a public and a private position ); and her views on trade, health care, and Wall Street ( even if it may not be 100 percent true, if the perception is that somehow the game is rigged. )
John Podesta, the Clinton campaign chairman, was the latest victim in a wave of hacks on key figures in Democratic politics and the political establishment in what administration officials say is an effort by Russia to undermine the election.
Clinton research director Tony Carrk sent the excerpts in an email to Podesta and other senior aides, sourcing the the flags from HRC s paid speeches to the Harry Walker Agency, the firm that represented Clinton and arranged her dozens of public and private paid speech deals after she left the State Department in early 2013.The email is dated Jan. 25, 2016, with the subject line, HRC Paid Speeches.
Carrk identified and sent the highlights in the email, telling Podesta and Clinton s communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, that there were a lot of policy positions that we should give an extra scrub with the campaign s policy department.
*CLINTON IS AWARE OF SECURITY CONCERNS AROUND BLACKBERRIES**Clinton: At The State Department We Were Attacked Every Hour, More Than Once An Hour By Incoming Efforts To Penetrate Everything We Had.
And That Was True Across The U.S. Government.
**CLINTON IS MORE FAVORABLE TO CANADIAN HEALTH CARE AND SINGLE PAYER**Clinton Said Single-Payer Health Care Systems Can Get Costs Down, And Is As Good Or Better On Primary Care, But They Do Impose Things Like Waiting Times.
* If you look at countries that are comparable, like Switzerland or Germany, for example, they have mixed systems.
They don t have just a single-payer system, but they have very clear controls over budgeting and accountability.
If you look at the single-payer systems, like Scandinavia, Canada, and elsewhere, they can get costs down because, you know, although their care, according to statistics, overall is as good or better on primary care, in particular, they do impose things like waiting times, you know.
It takes longer to get like a hip replacement than it might take here.
[Hillary Clinton remarks to ECGR Grand Rapids, 6/17/13]Two campaign spokespeople did not respond to a request for comment early on Friday evening seeking confirmation on the authenticity of the excerpts.During this year s long-fought Democratic primary, Sen. Bernie Sanders repeatedly pressed Clinton to release the transcripts of the speeches, which were delivered to a variety of groups, including major firms like Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank.
Late last year, Clinton said she would look into releasing the transcripts.
She never did, arguing that Republicans and others should also release theirs.
Let everybody who s ever given a speech to any private group under any circumstances release them, she told ABC this February.
We ll all release them at the same time.
Late into the primary, Sanders argued that the American people had a right to know what Clinton told well-heeled audiences on Wall Street about her economic policy.
We all rely on the market s transparency and integrity.
So even if it may not be 100 percent true, if the perception is that somehow the game is rigged, that should be a problem for all of us, and we have to be willing to make that absolutely clear, Clinton said in one apparent excerpt, softening an assertion she has made frequently on the trail, that the economy is rigged in favor of those at the top.
In the same remarks, attributed to a 2014 speech to Deutsche Bank, Clinton also said that much of financial reform really has to come from the industry itself.
The flagged excerpts don t provide context for Clinton s remarks, but include several comments in which she appears to express strong pro-trade sentiments.
My dream is a hemispheric common market, with open trade and open borders, Clinton is quoted as telling a Brazilian bank in 2013.
We have to resist, protectionism, other kinds of barriers to market access and to trade.
The apparent speech transcripts have spilled out into the public as young voters and progressives, including those who flocked to Sanders campaign, still have questions about Clinton and may turn to a third-party candidate in the fall.Read more: Buzzfeed