President Obama is one of the greatest political orators of our time.
Listening to the Republican response after a State of the Union address has been a chore during the Obama administration.
Listening to Donald Trump speak is an experience that makes non-Trump supporters skin crawl.The divide between the two is summed up nicely in one comparison.
The image compares a quote from President Obama s victory speech in 2008, after winning the Iowa caucus.
The other is Trump s victory speech that he gave after winning the South Carolina primary last week.
Here s the image:How Obama gives a victory speech vs how Trump gives a victory speech.
pic.twitter.com/eCPkzHei6t Dan Diamond (@ddiamond) February 24, 2016There is a vast gap between President Obama s and Trump s speaking skills, to say the least.
Trump speaks like a third grader.
Trump rarely utters a word that isn t in the 850 words included in the Basic English language.
A politician s ability to inspire voters is an important part of being a great leader.
Then again, Trump isn t actually a politician.
He s a billionaire has-been reality TV star.Then again, Trump is speaking to his supporters, who have been shown to have a similar grasp of the English language.No president is perfect and that includes President Obama.
However, he has consistently proven that when he talks he sounds like he is the only adult in the room.
Part of that reason is his ability to speak with passion.
It also helps that he has reason backing his message.
When he has something to say, people listen.
That s part of the reason he was elected president twice.
As the then Senator Obama said on the night of his first primary election They said this country was too divided, too disillusioned to ever come together around a common purpose.
You can watch President Obama s victory speech after his win in Iowa.
It s a throwback to a time when Obama made national history for the first time.Featured image from Gage Skidmore via Flickr and By Chuck Kennedy (Official White House photo) (The Official White House Photostream on Flickr) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons