On Saturday, dozens of indigenous people were attacked by private security while protesting the construction of the Dakota Access pipeline.
The Associated Press reports that at least 30 people were pepper-sprayed and six people had been bitten by dogs, including one child.
There were no police officers on site.The protestors broke through fencing and rushed towards construction crews, though none of them appear to have been acting violently.
The construction crew was using bulldozers to remove top soil from the site of an ancient indigenous burial ground.Standing Rock Sioux chairman David Archambault II said in a statement that: This demolition is devastating.
These grounds are the resting places of our ancestors.
The ancient cairns and stone prayer rings there cannot be replaced.
In one day, our sacred land has been turned into hollow ground.
Democracy Now!
was on the ground at the time of the attack.
Here are photos and video footage that shows the damage that was done to protestors.VIDEO Dakota Access Pipeline Co Attacks Native American Protesters with Dogs & Pepper Spray https://t.co/opaGFmyLxj pic.twitter.com/uXfFAxKkej Democracy Now!
(@democracynow) September 4, 2016This is just the latest incident to happen in a protest that has gone on for months.
The Dakota Access pipeline once constructed would span four states.
From an environmentalist s standpoint or anyone who is at least mildly concerned with combating climate change we should be thankful that the demonstrations are taking place.
The pipeline is expected to transport 570,000 barrels of crude oil per day from the Bakken region in North Dakota to Illinois.Despite being sold to the public as a means of securing energy independence, The Intercept recently revealed that at least some of the oil transported by the pipeline will be exported.
How much exactly will be exported is unknown.
However, recent changes in oil and gas export laws, as well as changes in the oil and gas market, have created conditions that make it far more profitable to export oil than to sell it domestically.Featured image via Twitter