Amy Goodman sat down for an interview with CNN s Brian Stelter on Sunday morning.
Goodman, the award-winning broadcast journalist and the host of Democracy Now!
did what she does best grill the establishment with fact-based analysis.It s been shown that there is a coverage bias against Bernie Sanders in the corporate media.
On the other hand, when it comes to Donald Trump, the major networks have given the Republican candidate who wants to make America hate again total domination of America s television screens.This bias was recently exemplified when the big three news networks all decided not show Bernie Sanders concession speech on Super Tuesday 3.
Goodman points this out, saying: Let s look at Super Tuesday 3, you had major coverage here at CNN, at MSNBC, at Fox all the networks across all through the night as the polls are closing.
You see the concession speeches and the great victory speeches, you see Hillary Clinton, Ted Cruz, Kasich, you see Donald Trump.
You re waiting here at CNN, at MSNBC.
They said he s going to hold a news conference and that s it.
Goodman continues, saying: Where was Bernie Sanders?
Well, in fact, Bernie Sanders was in Phoenix, Arizona before thousands of people and as the networks were waiting for Donald Trump and waiting and all the pundits are weighing in, they don t even say that Bernie Sanders is about to speak.
Commenting on how the corporate media has given Trump the world s biggest megaphone to preach his message, at the expense of covering all other major candidates, Goodman says: I think this exposure for Trump is frightening.
Yes, there is now some critical coverage.
But for the year 2015, as the snowball rolled and it got larger and larger, he got 23 times the coverage of Bernie Sanders.
It comes down to ratings.
Trump gives the corporate media an opportunity to create and sell an information-like-product, that can be quickly reproduced with almost no manufacturing cost.
Speaking of manufacturing, Goodman borrows a phrase from Noam Chomsky, alleging that the media is manufacturing consent with their election coverage.While Chomsky may have popularized the phrase, its origins come from the master of media manipulation, Edward Bernays.
He has a far more apt expression for the phenomenon that Goodman is addressing crystallizing public opinion.
As long as Trump remains in the election, the corporate media s ratings will continue to benefit from his status.You can watch the interview below, in full.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bw4tKd9823QFeatured image from video screenshot