This story is for everyone who believes hundreds of thousands of Muslim Syrian refugees will assimilate once they re dumped in America.
Here s a newsflash these mostly Muslim men are not going to come to America and assimilate.
The body of a 20-year-old Syrian woman, Rokstan M., was unearthed from a shallow grave in the small Saxon town of Dessau last week.
Her father and brothers stabbed her to death on her mother s orders, after she was gang-raped by three men.
The rape left her unclean and the mother allegedly demanded the killing to restore the family s honor.
German police are seeking the father and brothers.
That by itself is not newsworthy; what is newsworthy is the news itself, which appeared in not one of Germany s major daily newspapers or websites.
The tabloid Bild-Zeitung ran the story, along with the regional press, while the arbiters of enlightened opinion buried it.
Der Spiegel, the country s biggest news site, and the Frankfurter Algemeine Zeitung, the newspaper of record, made no mention.The case of Rokstan M. is heart-rending.
She had found work in Germany as a translator for the government, but she knew her family would track her down and kill her.
I am awaiting death.
But I am too young to die, she had written on a social media profile.
Her story deserves a line or two in the quality press.
But it s one of many that German leaders want to ignore.Political leaders in Germany which may absorb 1.5 million migrants this year are struggling to respond to reports of a sex crime epidemic among newly-arrived Muslims.
Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere urged Germans not to believe rumors of widespread rape at refugee centers, while Germany s police union chief Rainer Wendt warned, There is a lot of glossing over going on.
But this doesn t represent reality.
Wendt added, It is understandable that there is the desire to calm things down politically.
Germany s elite knows perfectly well that the migrants bring social pathologies, because they have already seen the world s worst sex crime epidemic unfold in Scandinavia.
Sweden now has the highest incidence of reported rape outside of a few African countries, and nearly ten times the rate of its European peers and all this has happened in the past ten years.
Sweden ranks near the top of the World Economic Forum s Gender Gap Index, yet it has become the most dangerous country for women outside of Africa, with an incidence of rape ten times that of its European peers.
Sweden s political leaders not only refuse to take action, but have made it a criminal offense to talk about it.Even in liberated, feminist, gender-neutral Sweden, there is something more horrible than rape, something horrible enough to persuade the political elite to sacrifice the physical and mental health of tens of thousands of Swedish women.
That is the horror of social disintegration in the Muslim world.
Sweden opened its borders to refugees twenty years before the migrant flood arrived on Germany s doorstep, and the foreign born rose from 9% of the population in 1990 to 15.4% in 2012.
Foreigners have a higher birth rate, so the percentage is higher including second-generation immigrants.There have been protests, to be sure, and nationalist parties like the Sweden Democrats have gained support on an anti-immigration platform, but Sweden will remain supine as its social fabric unravels.
So, I expect, will Germany.
Europe is transfixed by the horror unfolding from Libya to Afghanistan, as one of the world s major civilizations unravels in real time.
In its moment of agony, the Muslim world s most potent weapon is its own weakness.
The human cost of the collapse of Libya, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria is horrendous, but it is small thus far compared to the horrors that would attend instability in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Bangladesh.
The West can t bear to look at it.
Via: Asia TimesUnfortunately, stories like these are not uncommon in predominately Muslim countries.Here is an 18 year old female who was left for dead after her family failed in their attempt to kill her crime of marrying a man for love: