ESPN anchor Jemele Hill says she deserved to be suspended for getting too political on Twitter (please see our previous report below).
It s shocking that she s now all good and backtracking on her political activism when she was like a rabid dog with her hate for Trump just weeks ago.
Do you believer her and do you think she should have apologized to President Trump?
We think she should have apologized DO YOU BELIEVE HER?The network had benched the SportsCenter host for two weeks Oct. 9 for a second violation of its social-media guidelines, according to a statement.
The 41-year-old journalist said taking a timeout was for the best.
I deserved a suspension, Hill told TMZ.
I violated the policy.
Going forward, we ll be in a good, healthy place.
Hill ignited a national firestorm when she tweeted in September that President Trump is a white-supremacist.
I DON T FEEL SUPPRESSED ESPN did not specify her second strike the one that got her the heave-ho but her suspension came on the heels of an Oct. 8 tweet urging people to boycott Dallas Cowboys advertisers if they disagreed with team owner Jerry Jones s critical stance on players who protest institutional racism by kneeling during the national anthem.Hill said she does not believe the network is censoring her by punishing her for what she says on her personal Twitter account.
I don t feel suppressed.
I love ESPN as much as ever.
I am OK.
I feel good, she said.She is expected to return to broadcast Monday.
Read more: NYPOUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON JEMELE HILL S SUSPENSION FROM ESPN:ESPN has suspended SportsCenter anchor Jemele Hill for violating its social media guidelines after she posted a series of tweets Sunday and Monday urging NFL fans to boycott companies that advertise with the Dallas Cowboys, after first getting in trouble last month for calling President Trump a white supremacist on Twitter.ESPN STATEMENT:ESPN's Statement on Jemele Hill: pic.twitter.com/JkVoBVz7lv ESPN PR (@ESPNPR) October 9, 2017 Jemele Hill has been suspended for two weeks for a second violation of our social media guidelines, ESPN said in a statement Monday.
She previously acknowledged letting her colleagues and company down with an impulsive tweet.
In the aftermath, all employees were reminded of how individual tweets may reflect negatively on ESPN and that such actions would have consequences.
Hence this decision.
JEMELE HILL CALLS FOR BOYCOTT OF DALLAS ADVERTISERS:Hill fired off tweets after Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said any player of his who protests during the national anthem and disrespects the flag would be benched.Jones statements prompted Hill to urge NFL fans to boycott the companies that advertise with the Cowboys, and in other tweets, she said Cowboys fans should stop watching and buying their merchandise.
Don t ask Dak, Dez & other Cowboys players to protest.
A more powerful statement is if you stop watching and buying their merchandise, she said in one tweet, referencing Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott and wide receiver Dez Bryant.Don't ask Dak, Dez & other Cowboys players to protest.
A more powerful statement is if you stop watching and buying their merchandise.
Jemele Hill (@jemelehill) October 9, 2017Hill tweeted out several other tweets calling for a boycott of all Dallas advertisers.
She s crossed the line again but has only been suspended for two weeks Yawn!
We think she should have been fired by now this goes to show you that ESPN isn t serious about changing their approach to their employees bringing politics into sports.
People are sick to death of sports outlets who politicize events that should be all about the sport.
Enough already!IN CASE YOU MISSED WHEN HILL CALLED TRUMP A WHITE SUPREMACIST :ESPN host Jemele Hill called President Trump and Kid Rock white supremacists .
It didn t end there she said in one of several tweets that Trump is unfit to be president.What did ESPN do?
You guessed it NOTHING!
They tweeted out a mild apology and that s it!This is after Mike Ditka was fired for supporting President Trump and criticizing Obama.
Kurt Schilling was also fired after posting a picture on social media against transgender bathrooms.Why hasn t this woman been fired by ESPN?Please contact ESPN to let them know how you feel about this outrage: ESPNRead more: WE