Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) has such a hate-on for Hillary that he s going to continue the probe into her emails, despite the fact that the whole debacle only became a massive controversy because the GOP was trying to take Hillary down before the election.
Despite millions of taxpayer dollars have been wasted on investigating Hillary six ways from Sunday, it appears that this isn t going away just yet.Chaffetz seemed to try and make it about a responsibility to find out the truth about the largest breach of U.S. security at the State Department, but it s not and we see right through him.
Chaffetz just that full of hate for Hillary.
What can they really accomplish now with this?
What does he hope to accomplish?Millions of taxpayer dollars have already been wasted on fruitless attempts to find Hillary guilty of something, and now he s proven he just can t drop it: I still have a duty and obligation to get to the truth about one of the largest breaches of security at the State Department.
And foreign hacks aren t massive breaches of security?
Where are all the investigations into how those are happening?
Oh, wait, Hillary had nothing to do with them, so they re non-issues.
Very tiny, insignificant breaches at worst, if breach is even the right word.Chaffetz has also proven just how terrified he is of looking like a failure.
Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC) already faced possible disgrace after his Benghazi investigation was complete.
He couldn t prove Hillary had done anything wrong there, so even though he won re-election, there was a period recently where he looked like a complete failure.Chaffetz?
He s basically saying, We re going to nail Hillary to the wall so we can go down in history as the people who finally managed to take down a Clinton.
That s how this reads.
And not everyone is on board.
Rep. Elijah Cummings (R-MD) responded to this with: After everything our country has just been through and particularly given that Donald Trump and Paul Ryan have both called for healing our nation s divisions I think the American people deserve more from Congress than to continue squandering taxpayer dollars on these baseless Republican accusations and partisan attacks.
It s time to give it up, guys.
This is just absurd now.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images