Sebastian Gorka, deputy assistant to Donald Trump, doesn t like the media attacking the alleged president just two weeks into office.
Trump has screwed up big time but Gorka seems to believe there s a rest period from the media for a newly minted president.On Monday, Gorka said that the Trump administration will continue using the term fake news until the media understands that their monumental desire to attack Trump is wrong, according to Fox6Now.
Gorka is a former Breitbart editor, a site dedicated to promoting fake news.
There is a monumental desire on behalf of the majority of the media, not just the pollsters, the majority of the media to attack a duly elected President in the second week of his term, Gorka told conservative radio host Michael Medved.
The host, for the record, blasted Trump before the election as insecure, unprepared and angrily unhinged.
That s how unhealthy the situation is and until the media understands how wrong that attitude is, and how it hurts their credibility, we are going to continue to say, fake news.
I m sorry, Michael.
That s the reality, he added.Team Trump repeatedly uses the term fake news to discredit the press and media outlets.
The crybaby-in-chief even called negative poll numbers fake news on Monday.
Each time Trump and his administration call CNN or the New York Times fake news, they offer no proof of any deceptive reporting.Medved asked Gorka if he would admit that the administration s controversial statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day was at least questionable in being the first such statement in many years that didn t recognize that Jewish extermination was the chief goal of the Holocaust.
It s a Holocaust remembrance statement, Gorka said.
No, I m not going to admit it.
Because it s asinine.
It s absurd.
You re making a statement about the Holocaust.
Of course it s about the Holocaust because that s what the statement s about.
It s only reasonable to twist it if your objective is to attack the President.
A caller told Gorka, every time you call everything fake news, it just turns everyone except your hardcore fans off.
Not everything s fake news, the caller added.
You know, I would beg to differ, Gorka said.
Every single organ that generates these kinds of stories comes from the same clique of media organs that predicted that Hillary (Clinton) would win and that Brexit wouldn t occur.
I know what fake news is.
And it s coming from those organizations.
It s time that you yourself understood that as well.
Gorka is the second Breitbart employee brought into the White House.
Steve Bannon was the head honcho of the right wing propaganda outlet.
The Trump administration is fake news.Image via Twitter.