Trump promised to release his tax returns, and then, as we all remember, made excuse after excuse after excuse not to.
With tax reform now on the table, and Trump s plan taking center stage in the White House following the massive failure to repeal the ACA, House Democrats may finally have a way to force him to release his returns: Refuse to even consider tax-reform legislation until after they ve seen his returns.Seriously.
Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, a Democrat from New Jersey, introduced the resolution as a way to discover just how Trump himself will benefit from tax reform before any legislation even makes it out of the committee:BRILLIANT!
New Dem bill would delay Trump s tax reform legislation until he releases his tax returns: pic.twitter.com/2USVD4KNBf Impeach Donald Trump (@Impeach_D_Trump) April 5, 2017When Republicans ask why Trump s tax returns are so important, this is why.
Trump is already personally benefiting from the White House.
His ideas for tax reform (along with the rest of the GOP s ideas) could be crafted around how it will help him continue to line his pockets.One of the most obvious problems is that Trump s cabinet is full of billionaires, and his tax plan, along with every plan of the GOP s, will amount to hefty tax cuts for the rich and for businesses.
They do not help average Americans, who are the people most in need of tax relief.Furthermore, during the campaign, Trump called himself smart for finding ways to avoid paying taxes.
Any tax reform he pushes Congress to consider is extremely likely to be of personal benefit to him because that s how he rolls.
If it wasn t how he rolled, he would have officially divested of his business interests, he would not allow the government to fund the business trips of his two sons, and he probably would have let us see his returns so the entire country could compare his tax plans to the taxes he currently pays (or doesn t pay).In short, without being able to see his tax returns, President Rich-Bitch can do what he wants with taxes without much more than the standard outcry about tax cuts for the wealthy.
Now, the Democrats plan would allow the House Ways and Means Committee to review his taxes in a closed-door session, so they still wouldn t be truly public.
However, if the Congressional committee in charge of taxes knows what s in there, then there s a chance, however slim, that we ll get tax reform that s far fairer than what Trump likely wants.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images