Years of racism in the workplace has finally resulted in a long overdue lawsuit against Fox News.On the same day that Fox host Bill O Reilly made an outrageously racist comment about Congresswoman Maxine Waters, and a week after news broke that Fox fired comptroller Judith Slater for making racist remarks to black employees, a racial discrimination lawsuit was formally filed against the network by two African-American women who experienced the racism firsthand.According to The New York Times,The women Tichaona Brown, a payroll manager, and Tabrese Wright, a payroll coordinator accused Ms. Slater of making numerous racially charged comments, including suggestions that black men were women beaters and that black people wanted to physically harm white people.They also said that Ms. Slater claimed that black employees mispronounced words, such as mother, father, month and ask, and that she urged Ms. Brown to say those words aloud in a meeting.
Ms. Wright said Ms. Slater once asked if her three children were all fathered by the same man.
The lawsuit was filed in State Supreme Court in the Bronx and the attorneys representing the two ladies are confident that Fox is not going to like the outcome if they go to court.
We are confident that the good men and women of the Bronx will hold Fox accountable for what we believe to be its abhorrent racist conduct, reminiscent of the Jim Crow era, they said in a joint statement.Of course, Fox News whined about the lawsuit in a statement to Raw Story.We take complaints of this nature very seriously and took prompt and effective remedial action before Ms. Brown and Ms. Wright sued in court and even before Ms. Wright complained through her lawyer.
There is no place for inappropriate verbal remarks like this at Fox News.
We are disappointed that this needless litigation has been filed.Frankly, it s about damn time Fox News faced a lawsuit like this.
The network s record of racism and racist remarks has been atrocious over the years, especially since the election of the President Obama in 2008.Bill O Reilly and Sean Hannity have been especially guilty of being racist, yet unlike Slater, they remain employed by the network.O Reilly has even been named in sexual harassment lawsuits but Fox executives still keep paying him to run his mouth every night.Fox News is pretty much saying that it s okay if their on-air personalities are sexist and racist but it s not okay for their executives who work behind the scenes.
Sounds like a double standard.But the sexism and racism at Fox News is now catching up to them as former and current employees are starting to fight back by filing lawsuits.
At some point, Fox News is going to have to drag itself and their employees into the 21st century before they go broke trying to defend themselves in court.Featured Image: Dangerous Minds