Facebook s VP of Advertising took to Twitter to set the record straight about ads that were run on Facebook and were paid for by Russians.
Rob Goldman tweeted about how the media has been trying to promote a false narrative about how the Russians interfered in the 2016 presidential election, when in fact, that s not at all what happened.Goldman tweeted about special counsel Robert Mueller s indictment of 13 Russian nationals and 3 Russian entities for alleged interference in our 2016 presidential election.The indictment says that a Russian organization called the Internet Research Agency sought to wage information warfare against the United States and to sow discord in the American political system by using fictitious American personas and social media platforms and other Internet-based media.Internet Research Agency, a so-called troll farm based in St. Petersburg, Russia, was allegedly controlled by a defendant in the indictment named Yevgeny Progozhin, who is a wealthy associate of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
CNBCVery excited to see the Mueller indictment today.
We shared Russian ads with Congress, Mueller and the American people to help the public understand how the Russians abused our system.
Still, there are keys facts about the Russian actions that are still not well understood.
Rob Goldman (@robjective) February 17, 2018The majority of the Russian ad spend happened AFTER the election.
We shared that fact, but very few outlets have covered it because it doesn t align with the main media narrative of Tump and the election.
https://t.co/2dL8Kh0hof Rob Goldman (@robjective) February 17, 2018Facebook s VP of ads then tweeted about how the majority of the ad spend took place AFTER the election.
He then landed a verbal molotov cocktail at our dishonest press, as he pointed out that Facebook shared that fact, but the mainstream media didn t cover it because it doesn t align with their narrative of Trump and the election.Goldman went on to explain that the main goal of the Russian propaganda campaign is to divide Americans by using free speech against us on social media.
Goldman claims they are stoking fear and hatred amongst Americans.
The main goal of the Russian propaganda and misinformation effort is to divide America by using our institutions, like free speech and social media, against us.
It has stoked fear and hatred amongst Americans.
It is working incredibly well.
We are quite divided as a nation.
Rob Goldman (@robjective) February 17, 2018President Trump retweeted Goldman s tweet:The Fake News Media never fails.
Hard to ignore this fact from the Vice President of Facebook Ads, Rob Goldman!
https://t.co/XGC7ynZwYJ Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2018Here s a screenshot of Trump s tweet:Finally, Goldman tweeted a real and scary example of how the Russians are using fake propaganda on social media to intentionally divide United States citizens:The single best demonstration of Russia's true motives is the Houston anti-islamic protest.
Americans were literally puppeted into the streets by trolls who organized both the sides of protest.
https://t.co/9w1EAl28CH Rob Goldman (@robjective) February 17, 2018The only thing Goldman got wrong, is the reason our nation is so deeply divided.
It actually has little to do with Russian bots or social media operatives.
Our nation is divided because we had a president that for 8 years worked behind the scenes, meeting with radical hate groups like BLM and underground Democratic Party groups like the one headed up by felon Rob Creamer whose purpose was to disrupt and create violence and chaos at Trump rallies across America.Goldman also tweeted a very recent example of how Russian operatives are attempting to divide Americans on a very heated issue, gun control.Russia-linked bots are promoting pro-gun messages on Twitter in an attempt to sow discord in the aftermath of the Florida school shooting, monitoring groups say https://t.co/67K6UIZzcJ pic.twitter.com/uDqCWQp4lo CNN (@CNN) February 17, 2018According to CNBC, the indictment said the Internet Research Agency was registered with the Russian government as a corporate entity in 2013, and by May 2014 the group s strategy included interfering with the 2016 U.S. presidential election, with the stated goal of spread[ing] distrust towards the candidates and the political system in general, the indictment said.The indictment details an extremely sophisticated conspiracy in which defendants traveled to the United States to conduct research, employed specialists to fine-tune social media posts to ensure they appeared authentic, and stole real people s identities to purchase online ads.