According to white supremacist dirtbag, former head honcho of far-Right propaganda factory Breitbart, and Donald Trump s chief strategist Steve Bannon, the administration expects to throw us into a war with China within the next few years if their plans work out.Speaking on his radio show in March, Bannon said that relations with China would deteriorate and we will be at war in the South China Sea in five to 10 years.
There s no doubt about that.
They re taking their sandbars and making basically stationary aircraft carriers and putting missiles on those.
They come here to the United States in front of our face and you understand how important face is and say it s an ancient territorial sea, Bannon said.He s likely right that the United States will be involved in some conflict, but it will be because of the Trump administration that this happens.
Throughout his campaign and even after he was elected President-With-An-Asterisk, the Donald has been poking China repeatedly.
We can t continue to allow China to rape our country, and that s what they re doing, Trump said while campaigning in May.
We re going to turn it around.
And we have the cards, don t forget it.
We re like the piggy bank that s being robbed.
We have the cards.
We have a lot of power with China.
Just before he was sworn in, Trump needled china on Twitter and caused an international incident by bragging that the President of Taiwan CALLED (caps are all him) to congratulate him on his victory.
The President of Taiwan CALLED ME today to wish me congratulations on winning the Presidency.
Thank you!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2016China has been taking out massive amounts of money & wealth from the U.S. in totally one-sided trade, but won't help with North Korea.
Nice!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2017In the past, Bannon has compared himself to Lenin.
According to the white nationalist misinformation pimp, Lenin wanted to destroy the state, and that s my goal too.
I want to bring everything crashing down, and destroy all of today s establishment a great goal for someone Trump just installed on the National Security Council.If Trump and Bannon have their way (and so far, Republicans have allowed them to get away with a lot), they will be able to act on all their twisted fantasies of bombing every nation that they don t like.
Instead of the tweet button, a thin-skinned bully and his white supremacist sidekick now have the big red button and they are itching to use it.Listen to Bannon s prediction below:Featured image via Getty Images/Paul Marotta