If there s anyone in this country who s an expert in dirty politics, it s Donald Trump surrogate Roger Stone.
Stone is a racist, a conspiracy theorist, misogynistic and pretty much everything ugly that comes out of the Trump camp.
He s also intensely loyal to Trump, so if Stone says Trump was simply toying with Mitt Romney just to be a vindictive a**hole, well, you can pretty much take that to the bank.On Sunday, Stone appeared on InfoWars with Alex Jones.
Jones and Stone are both conspiracy nuts, but what Stone told Jones was no conspiracy.
According to Stone, Trump only interviewed Mitt Romney for the Secretary of State position to torture him for refusing to endorse the Orange Man.
Donald Trump was interviewing Mitt Romney for Secretary of State in order to torture him, Stone claimed on the program.
To toy with him.
And given the history, that s completely understandable.
Mitt Romney crossed a line.
He didn t just oppose Trump, which is his democratic right, he called him a phony and a fraud.
And a con man.
And that s not the kind of man you want as Secretary of State.
While Trump s official team hasn t confirmed or denied Stone s allegations, it s far from out of character for Trump, who seems to relish in vindictive retribution.Actual (we can t confirm or deny that Trump is a billionaire either) billionaire Richard Branson called Trump vindictive and dangerous.What concerns me most, based upon my personal experiences with Donald Trump, is his vindictive streak, which could be so dangerous if he got into the White House.
For somebody who is running to be the leader of the free world to be so wrapped up in himself, rather than concerned with global issues, is very worrying.Trump has vowed to sue all the women who accused him of sexual misconduct.
In fact, Trump threatens to sue everyone who crosses him.
He cuts off media sources when they write negative things about him.A psychologist had this to say about Trump:Psychology research shows that vindictiveness is strongly correlated with narcissism, a personality trait that countless psychologists say Trump shows all the signs of having.
Studies have also found that those who seek revenge are often very energetic and have dominant personalities.
Further, vengeful people often seek powerful positions that allow them to inflict what they see as well-deserved hurt on their enemies.
That pretty much describes Trump to a T.If, in fact, Trump did only invite Romney to meet with him to torture him, this is beyond troubling.
We need an adult in the White House, not a proud schoolyard bully.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images.