Kellyanne Conway, who serves as a senior adviser to Donald Trump, is a connoisseur of alternative facts.
In other words, she lies so much she even believes herself.
But don t call her a liar, or she ll freak out.
Conway is on the offensive today after the president of her alma mater called her out for repeatedly trying to sell falsehoods to the American people as truth.Trinity Washington University President Patricia McGuire blasted Conway for her lies in a blog titled On lies and the truth we must tell.
She said Conway was part of a team that thinks nothing of shaping and spreading a skein of lies as a means to secure power.
Presidential Counselor Kellyanne Conway, Trinity Class of 1989, has played a large role in facilitating the manipulation of facts and encouraging the grave injustice being perpetrated by the Trump Administration s war on immigrants among many other issues.
She is one of President Trump s primary spokespersons, an almost daily figure on cable news shows, McGuire wrote.
Some people admire her staunch advocacy for her client s positions, and others applaud the fact that she was the first woman to manage a successful presidential campaign.
But in fact, as is true of many of President Trump s statements, her advocacy on his behalf is often at variance with the truth.
Ms. Conway invented the now-infamous phrase alternative fact, to defend Trump s claims about the size of crowds at his inauguration, a thinly-veiled autocratic scheme to try to claim that the Trump inauguration drew the biggest crowd in history when, in fact, it was on the smaller side, she continued.
Ms. Conway has been part of a team that thinks nothing of shaping and spreading a skein of lies as a means to secure power.
Perhaps the Bowling Green Massacre comment was truly a mistake, as she claims, but she repeated that canard on three different occasions as an explanation for why the travel ban, an executive order that clearly discriminates against Muslims, was necessary.
When the Washington Post informed Conway of McGuire s comments, she didn t take it well at all.
True to form, she lashed out and slammed not only McGuire s wise words, but also her fellow alumni.
Because why not?
It s a disappointment to have the president of the university lift up other Trinity graduates who have a casual relationship with the truth, Conway said.
She then whined that McGuire didn t even have the courtesy of calling or emailing me to ask what I meant on any given occasion.
Without addressing the fact that she has been running around making up the truth as she goes along, including the Bowling Green massacre that never happened, Conway added that she has given the school lots of money over the years.
My money was good, she noted.
Apparently, writing a check means that no one is allowed to call you out for spouting lies to defend a demagogue.
Sounds totally legit.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images