CNN announced it would be indefinitely banning one of Trump s biggest cheerleaders from ever appearing on their network for being too racist, too sexist, too violent, and too vulgar.
Hey, it s the company you keep, right Trump?As a longtime friend and adviser to Trump and his presidential campaign, Roger Stone was a frequent guest on cable news.
Unfortunately, he was also one of the world s biggest assholes.
Taking his cue from Trump himself, Stone would often go on unhinged racist and sexist rants targeting enemies of Trump he saw in the media.
Recently, Stone withdrew from Trump s campaign, but managed to still book himself on CNN at least seven times in the last month to viciously attack Trump s opponents.It s hard to imagine a more repugnant person being allowed to spread his toxic waste on television every other day.
He makes no secret of his vileness.
On Twitter, he s prone to ugly, violent outbursts at the drop of a hat.
Much of his rage is focused on CNN employees.
He s called commentator Ana Navarro an Entitled Diva Bitch and has repeatedly called former CNN commentator Roland Martin a negro.
@ForTrump2016 @ananavarro no , she's a MORON.
Borderline retarded.
Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) February 19, 2016Who is this stupid negro Roland Martin ?
Buffoon or token Buffoon ?
#CNN Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) November 15, 2012After being very publicly called out by both Gawker and Media Matters, CNN finally woke up to the fact that they were promoting the racist, sexist agenda of a man who actively hated many of the people who worked at CNN and it s fellow news networks.
In a statement, they announced they would be banning Stone, saying He will no longer appear on CNN.
Stone managed to miss the chance to reflect on his own ugly behavior entirely.
He blamed CNN s ban on Hillary Clinton.Funny seems the Clintons have ordered CNN not to interview me in the future because I am not PC #censorship https://t.co/ppr7o2hfCp Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) February 23, 2016Trump, of course, is doing little to hide his own racist, sexist sensibilities.
Not quite as vulgar as his friend Stone, Trump has managed to attack and smear almost any minority group he thinks he can get away with.
His rhetoric has consistently bordered on the violent.
Sometimes it spilled over.
At a recent campaign event, he told the enthusiastic crowd that he wished he could punch a protester in the face.
They crowd went nuts.
He also promised as president he would bring back torture and send a private army to round up undocumented families and forcefully deport them.Stone might be too dumb to censor his ugly beliefs, but he and Trump seem to be very much on the same page when it comes to policy.Featured image via Gawker