THANK GOODNESS FOR JUDICIAL WATCH!
They pushed for emails from the DOJ and got a treasure trove of incriminating evidence of anti-Trump bias.
Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said it best when he said the email is an astonishing and disturbing find A top prosecutor who is now a deputy for Special Counsel Robert Mueller s Russia probe praised then-acting Attorney General Sally Yates (see more on Yates below) after she was fired in January by President Trump for refusing to defend his controversial travel ban.The email, obtained by Judicial Watch through a federal lawsuit, shows that on the night of Jan. 30, Andrew Weissmann wrote to Yates under the subject line, I am so proud.
He continued, And in awe.
Thank you so much.
All my deepest respects.
The disclosure follows confirmation that another Mueller investigator, FBI official Peter Strzok, was fired over the summer after allegedly sending anti-Trump texts to an FBI lawyer with whom he was romantically involved.His alleged actions revived concerns about the objectivity of the FBI probes of both Hillary Clinton s email setup and Russia election meddling.Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton called the new Weissmann document an astonishing and disturbing find.
Andrew Weisman, a key prosecutor on Robert Mueller s team, praised Obama DOJ holdover Sally Yates after she lawlessly thwarted President Trump, he said in a statement.
How much more evidence do we need that the Mueller operation has been irredeemably compromised by anti-Trump partisans?
CATHERINE HERRIDGE:DOJ POLITICAL HACK SALLY YATES YOU RE FIRED!
The acting Attorney General, Sally Yates, has betrayed the Department of Justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States.
This order was approved as to form and legality by the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel.Ms.
Yates is an Obama Administration appointee who is weak on borders and very weak on illegal immigration.It is time to get serious about protecting our country.
Calling for tougher vetting for individuals travelling from seven dangerous places is not extreme.
It is reasonable and necessary to protect our country.Tonight, President Trump relieved Ms. Yates of her duties and subsequently named Dana Boente, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to serve as Acting Attorney General until Senator Jeff Sessions is finally confirmed by the Senate, where he is being wrongly held up by Democrat senators for strictly political reasons.
I am honored to serve President Trump in this role until Senator Sessions is confirmed.
I will defend and enforce the laws of our country to ensure that our people and our nation are protected, said Dana Boente, Acting Attorney General.