Donald Trump s White House mouthpiece just desecrated an American civil rights icon to defend a racist.Back in 1986, Coretta Scott King wrote a letter in opposition to Ronald Reagan s nomination of Jeff Sessions to a federal judgeship.
The widow of Martin Luther King Jr. condemned Sessions for his track record on voting rights and implored Republicans to reject him.
They did.Mrs.
King died in 2006 but her words against Sessions continue to haunt him to this day as he has been nominated by Trump to be Attorney General, which would give him the power to cripple civil rights and voting rights across this country.King wrote that Sessions lacks the temperament, fairness, and judgement to be a federal judge and has used the awesome power of his office to chill the free exercise of the vote by black citizens.
His attempt to prosecute three civil right activists who were helping black people vote in Alabama raises serious questions about his commitment to the protections of the voting rights of all American citizens and consequently his fair and unbiased judgement regarding this fundamental right.
Based on his record, I believe his confirmation would have a devastating effect on not only the judicial system in Alabama, but also on the progress we have made everywhere toward fulfilling my husband s dream that he envisioned over twenty years ago.
Sean Spicer, however, seems to think that if King were alive today, she would just come around to supporting Sessions and would change her mind about him.During the daily press briefing, Spicer said I would respectfully disagree with her assessment of Senator Sessions then and now.
His record on civil voting rights, I think, is outstanding.
I can only hope that if she were still with us today that after getting to know him that she would share the same view.
Spicer went on to lie his ass off about Sessions, painting him as a civil rights hero when the fact is that Sessions is the man who didn t mind the KKK until he found out that they smoked pot.
He didn t seem to give a damn about the history of lynching and racism the KKK is responsible for.Here s the video via Twitter.Ugh.
Spicer desecrates Coretta Scott King, tells string of lies about Sessions pic.twitter.com/65nqBjIcFY Tommy Christopher (@tommyxtopher) February 8, 2017There has been fierce opposition to Sessions ever since Trump nominated him.
The KKK endorsed Trump and cheered his decision when he announced Sessions as his pick to head the Justice Department.
Clearly, racists see Sessions as their chance to roll back critical civil and voting rights protections for minorities.If Coretta Scott King were alive today, it is unlikely she would join the KKK by endorsing Sessions.
She would still oppose Jeff Sessions and so should every American who believes in liberty and justice for ALL.
Because if Jeff Sessions is confirmed, he will take the justice out of the Justice Department and all the progress made by real civil rights heroes will be erased.Read more:Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images