You ve got to love Robert Reich.
The former Secretary of Labor under future First Lady and former President Bill Clinton met a Trump supporter at a coffee shop and couldn t resist stopping for a moment to ruin the poor guy s week by introducing him to a concept that is foreign to him: facts.
I finally found a Trump supporter this morning when I went to buy coffee.
(I noticed a Trump bumper sticker on his car.
), Reich writes in a Facebook post that has gone viral since he posted it Monday morning.
Then he completely dismantled Trump politely before the guy s very eyes: Hi, I said.
Noticed your Trump bumper sticker.
Yup, he said, a bit defensively.
I hope you don t mind my asking, but I m curious.
Why are you supporting him?
I know he s a little bit much, said the Trump supporter.
But he s a successful businessman.
And we need a successful businessman as president.
How do you know he s a successful businessman?
I asked.
Because he s made a fortune.
Has he really?
I asked.
Of course.
Forbes magazine says he s worth four and a half billion.
That doesn t mean he s been a success, I said.
In my book it does, said the Trump supporter.
You know, in 1976, when Trump was just starting his career, he said he was worth about $200 million, I said.
Most of that was from his father.
That just proves my point, said the Trump supporter.
He turned that $200 million into four and a half billion.
Brilliant man.
But if he had just put that $200 million into an index fund and reinvested the dividends, he d be worth twelve billion today, I said.The Trump supporter went silent.
And he got about $850 million in tax subsidies, just in New York alone, I said.More silence.
He s not a businessman, Reich concluded.
He s a con man.
Hope you enjoy your coffee.
While it s unlikely that Reich managed to change the Trump fan s mind or even reach him on a level that matters he surely left the guy steaming more than a freshly-brewed cup of go-go- juice.
Oh, to be a fly on the wall during that conversation!Featured image via Getty Images (Win McNamee)/screengrab