Donald Trump supporters who struggle to earn a paycheck continue to get screwed over and Bernie Sanders called Trump out for it on Sunday.On Friday, Trump met with Wall Street bankers and promised that he will gut Dodd-Frank regulations that prevent them from screwing over their customers.
Specifically, Trump admitted that he is only interested in helping his rich friends instead of sticking to his promise to help the working class Americans who voted for him.
We expect to be cutting a lot out of Dodd-Frank, because frankly I have so many people, friends of mine, that have nice businesses and they can t borrow money.
They just can t get any money because the banks just won t let them borrow because of the rules and regulations in Dodd-Frank.
So we ll be talking about that in terms of the banking industry.
Furthermore, Trump has stacked his administration with former Goldman Sachs employees despite criticizing Hillary Clinton throughout his campaign for her ties to the big Wall Street bank.On Sunday, Senator Bernie Sanders did not mince words as he called out Trump for being a fraud.
It is hard not to laugh to see President Trump alongside these Wall Street guys, Sanders said on CNN with Jake Tapper.
I have to say this, Jake, and I don t mean to be disrespectful.
This guy is a fraud.
Sander s reminded Tapper and viewers that Trump ran his campaign by promising to fight Wall Street.
This guy ran for president of the United States and said, I, Donald Trump, I m going to take on Wall Street, these guys are getting away with murder.
And then suddenly he appoints all these Wall Street billionaires, his major financial adviser comes from Goldman Sachs and now he s going to dismantle legislation that protects consumers.
Indeed, Trump claimed during his campaign that he would be tough on Wall Street and would seek to restore laws that were passed after the Great Depression, like Glass-Steagall, that placed regulations on the financial sector designed to prevent the kind of banking practices that caused it in the first place and would also cause the Great Recession in 2008.Sanders also slammed Trump for appointing people who want to destroy Medicare and Social Security despite promising that he would protect both programs.
This is a guy who ran for president, saying, I m not going to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, Sanders said.
And then he appoints all of these guys who are precisely going to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
In the end, while Sanders conceded that Trump put on a good show to dupe voters, I think he s going to sell out the middle class and the working class of this country.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump does not care about the American people.
He only cares about himself and his wealthy buddies.
He s a hypocrite for palling around with Goldman Sachs executives and is a liar for making promises to his middle class supporters that he clearly had absolutely no intention of keeping.
How many times do his supporters need to get duped before they turn against him?Featured image via Flickr/Flickr