Rep. Louie Gohmert is perhaps America s most troubled congressperson.
Vehemently anti-gay, the Representative from Texas has often made headlines for his nonsensical speeches.
All of them were put to shame when Gohmert walked up to the podium on May 26 and began speaking about asteroids, Matt Damon and gay astronauts.While on the floor of the House, Gohmert launched into a nearly hour long diatribe against Obama s recent efforts to stop anti-gay discrimination.
Having just killed his own party s energy and water spending bill because Republicans noticed it might help LGBT people, Gohmert was unhinged.Claiming homosexuality and transexuality were perverse mental disorders, Gohmert decided to prove his point by offering up a thought experiment.
It is a very dumb thought experiment.I really wonder how many people who had the ultimate power to decide whether humanity would go forward or not.
Whether it was an asteroid coming, something that would end humanity on Earth as dinosaurs were ended at one time.
Okay, we ve got a spaceship that can go as Matt Damon did in that movie.
Plant a colony somewhere we can have humans survive this terrible disaster.If you could decide what 40 people you put on the spacecraft that would save humanity, how many of those would be same-sex couples?In fairness, we do need to give Gohmert credit for acknowledging that the dinosaurs were killed by an asteroid and not because Noah couldn t fit them on his ark.
Sadly, the rest of his conjecture is stunningly stupid.The premise that gay people shouldn t be given equal rights because they couldn t make babies in space is faulty for a number of reasons, but here are just a few:Gohmert s homophobic rant is quite possibly so idiotic that it isn t even offensive.
Watching a grown man base his hateful ideology on misunderstanding the point of a Matt Damon movie is profoundly sad.
It begs the question, What are other Republicans sitting in the House thinking?
Just knowing that your political views align roughly with that of a bonafide moron like Louie Gohmert is enough to give even the most hardened conservative pause, surely.Of course, there are dumb people of every political stripe, but there s only one Louie Gohmert and he s a proud Republican and that kind of says it all.Watch Gohmert s insane rant below:Featured image via CSPAN