Donald Trump loves talking about email scandals, apparently so then why hasn t he mentioned the millions of emails lost by the Bush administration?
On April 27, 2007, an estimated five million emails relevant to an ongoing investigation of eight U.S. attorneys being fired were lost.
As it turns out that number is closer to 22 million.The New York Times reported:WASHINGTON, April 11 Political advisers to President Bush may have improperly used their Republican National Committee e-mail accounts to conduct official government business, and some communications that are required to be preserved under federal law may be lost as a result, White House officials said Wednesday.Of the 1,000 White House officials with political duties, 22 including Karl Rove, the chief political strategist have Republican National Committee accounts that are supposed to be used only for campaign-related work.So, while Hillary Clinton has got plenty of attention for emails she lost, the media has forgotten about this scandal by the Bush administration.
Big surprise, right?
It s not like it s relevant, or anything.
Condoleezza Rice and Colin Powell also had private email, but we don t talk about that, either.
I wonder why?
It couldn t have anything to do with the need for ratings, or the need to somehow create a close race between Hillary, who is eminently qualified, and the raging dumpster fire that is Trump, could it?Even more worryingly, many times Cheney s emails were unavailable for weeks at a time, with archives also unavailable.
And yet, not a peep from Republicans, and certainly nothing from Donald Trump.
It s almost as if, after 30 years of non-scandals failing to go anywhere, they re getting a little bit desperate.Donald Trump, on the other hand, has set the bar lower than ever before when it comes to transparency.
He won t release medical records, he won t release tax returns, and he won t reveal his business connections or how he intends to profit from the office of the presidency.
His war on the press has made it clear he has no respect for the first amendment or the right to dissent.
And his scandals are only just getting started something tells me investigations of Trump won t be so fruitless.