A first-of-its-kind lawsuit was announced on Monday.
The lawsuit will be filed jointly by Maryland s Attorney General, Brian Frosh and the District of Columbia s Attorney General, Karl Racine.
The lawsuit claims that Trump is in violation of the emolument clause in the Constitution.
The emolument clause prevents the POTUS from receiving gifts from foreign governments.
It s essentially a charge of corruption.
Because of Trump s refusal to disown his company, the Attorney General s believe that they have the grounds to file an injunction against Trump for violating the Constitution.
The president is bound by oath to faithfully execute his office and preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, the lawsuit says.
The lawsuit also alleges that Trump is, deeply enmeshed with a legion of foreign and domestic government actors.
In order for the lawsuit to be successful, the accuser must prove that Trump s business has done harm to Maryland and D.C. A hurdle that the attorney s lawyer will be easy to accomplish.Those who are anxious to take a look at Trump s personal tax returns should follow this case as it develops.
Racine and Frosh have stated that the first step in their legal challenge will be to examine Trump s tax returns in order to understand the full extent of his financial holdings.
However, the court may impose privacy protections that prevent Trump s tax documents from being released to the public, at least legally.
Never in the history of this country have we had a president with these kinds of extensive business entanglements or a president who refused to adequately distance themselves from their holdings, Racine during said during a press conference in Washington D.C. Racine also said that We re getting in here to be the check and balance that it appears Congress is unwilling to be.
We re bringing [this] suit because the president has not taken adequate steps to separate himself from his business interests.
It is unprecedented that the American people must question day after day whether decisions are made and actions are taken to benefit the United States or to benefit Donald Trump, Frosh said during the press conference.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer dismissed the lawsuit as nothing more than a political attack aimed at Trump.
It s not hard to conclude that partisan politics may be one of the motivations, behind the legal case, Spicer said in response to the lawsuit.
The suit was filed by two Democratic attorney generals.
The lawyers driving the suit are an advocacy group with partisan ties.
It actually started with a press conference as opposed to filing it, which is interesting.
It should be pointed out that the fact that the suit was announced at a press conference isn t actually very interesting at all.
Spicer was blatantly trying to delegitimize the lawsuit by saying that.
As per his track record, Spicer actually only continued to be a national embarrassment.What truly is interesting about the case, is that it is being filed by two government officials.
Trump s crony corporate administration would absolutely love for the public not recognize that this may prove to be one of the most important lawsuits in this nation s history, given that it will provide likely provide a more concrete legal definition as to what is considered an emolument.
Never before has a president been charged successfully as being in violation of the emolument clause.
The case could potentially lead to a whole new set of legal restrictions on the president s office.Featured Image: Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images