Today s act of terror against a GOP Congressional baseball team by a Bernie Sanders supporter was about as ugly and hateful as anyone could imagine.
But no one should be surprised by this violent act, given how many leaders in the Democrat Party have been calling for violence against anyone who disagrees with their radical progressive agenda, starting with our former president and community organizer, Barack Obama.
Below, is a list of 6 prominent Democrats who have called for violence against Americans who disagree with them.
Of course, their actions have largely been ignored and deemed acceptable behavior by their allies in the mainstream media #1.
President Obama s grassroots Organizing for Action, in a message to supporters, said that voters turned their back on them and it is time respond by fighting harder than we ever have before.
That Barack Obama would suggest Democrats fight harder than ever before should come as no surprise to anyone who s been paying attention.
The former president and community organizer is no stranger to calling for violence against anyone who doesn t agree with him.In 2008, he made a comment about rubbing out his opponents the Chicago way when he suggested If they [Republicans] bring a knife to the fight, we [Democrats] bring a gun.
Obama also joked about rubbing out his opponents #TheChicagoWay:"If they bring a knife to the fight, we bring a gun, #Obama, Philly, 2008 John Kass (@John_Kass) August 10, 2016Here s a video highlighting some of our former community organizer in chief s violent comments:Scrapping any intention to work with the new administration, the message from OFA s BarackObama.com said, we re not backing down.
The email to supporters was a clear rallying cry to fight the incoming Trump administration, despite Obama s pledge to help the new team.OFA s Jeremy Bird said, If you re anything like me, you re still sorting through the events of the past week and a half.
It s hard there s no way to sugarcoat that.
Vulnerable communities are feeling like this country has turned its back on them.
And years of hard work are on the chopping block, seemingly overnight.
Maybe you re feeling disillusioned, cynical, or frustrated.
But now is not the time to walk away now is the time to get in the ring and fight harder than we ever have before.
Washington Examiner#2.
Hillary Clinton s former running mate Tim Kaine called for Democrats to fight in the streets against Trump.
Kaine, whose son was recently charged for his involvement in a riot during a pro-Trump event, had appeared on MSNBC in January, calling for members of his party to fight in Congress, fight in the courts, fight in the streets, fight online, fight at the ballot box.
Kaine s 24-year-old son Linwood Kaine was charged in May with fleeing police on foot, concealing his identity in a public place, and obstructing legal process, after a masked group he was with threw smoke bombs into a pro-Trump rally in Minneapolis, Minnesota in March.#2.
Former U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch posted a video urging people to march, bleed, and die in the streets.In February, Obama s attorney general posted a video in which she urged people to march and bleed in the streets to resist the president and his administration.
It has been people, individuals who have banded together, ordinary people who simply saw what needed to be done and came together and supported those ideals who have made the difference.
They ve marched, they ve bled and yes, some of them died.
This is hard.
Every good thing is.
We have done this before.
We can do this again, Lynch stated.#3.
Hillary Clinton made a video where she told Democrats to RESIST and to stay engaged through activism.
She praised the people who were marching and protesting against anyone who doesn t agree with their progressive agenda.
Let resistance plus persistence equal progress for our party and for our country.
Clinton wrapped up her video by telling Democrats to, Keep fighting!
Watch:#4.
Madonna tells women s march that she fantasizes about blowing up the White House.During the unhinged aging pop star s vulgar speech at the rally, she demanded that this was the beginning of a revolution, and called Trump s win a horrific moment of darkness.
Yes, I m angry.
Yes, I am outraged.
Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House, Madonna said.
But I know that this won t change anything.
We cannot fall into despair.
-Big League Politics#5.
Comedian Kathy Griffin made a career-ending decision to hold an ISIS inspired bloodied, decapitated head of President Trump up for a video, as part of a comedy act .
No one but Kathy and some hate-filled Democrats thought it was funny:#6.
Three weeks before President Trump s inauguration, another unhinged comedian Rosie O Donnell tweeted: DONALD TRUMP IS MENTALLY UNSTABLE.
She added, LESS THAN 3 WEEKS TO STOP HIM AMERICA.
Stop him?
Was Rosie calling for someone to harm or to take out Donald Trump before his inauguration?
It sure sounds like it to us!