A whole lot of evangelical Trump voters just discovered they got duped.By picking Mike Pence as his vice-president, Donald Trump sent a message to the LGBT community that their rights are in jeopardy of being rolled back.In fact, one of the reasons why so many conservative Christians tossed their alleged morality out the window to vote for him was precisely because they believed he would pass a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage or pack the courts with anti-gay bigots to strike down all the rulings in favor of marriage equality.But during his interview on 60 minutes with Leslie Stahl on Sunday night, Trump once again backed off another campaign promise.
Do you support marriage equality?
Stahl asked Trump.
It s irrelevant because it s already settled, Trump replied.
It s law.
It was settled in the Supreme Court.
I mean, it s done.
When Stahl pointed out that Trump s Supreme Court nominees could reverse Obergefell v. Hodges, the case that made same-sex marriage constitutional across the nation, Trump made it clear that he believes it s settled.
These cases have gone to the Supreme Court, Trump said.
They ve been settled.
And I m fine with that.
Here s the video via Twitter.Donald Trump on marriage equality 60 Minutes pic.twitter.com/ycjm0sY7tv blake (@CultGaga) November 14, 2016This suggests that Donald Trump has no intention of attacking LGBT rights, however, the LGBT community should continue to watch Trump like a hawk.Of course, this is going to especially disappoint Mike Pence, who has been an anti-gay bigot for decades and signed laws in Indiana designed to discriminate against gay people.
It s also going to piss off all the evangelicals who voted for Trump with the expectation that he would be a puppet for their hateful agenda.Hopefully, Trump keeps his word, but he s already broken most of the promises he made to his supporters so it s hard to believe that he won t flip-flop again.
For now, we can only watch and enjoy as conservative bigots howl in rage.Featured Image: Indiana Talks