Senate Democrats want Republican senators to vote on some of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump s racist policies, including his stance on banning Muslims from entering the United States.Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said that the Republicans should vote on the policies of the front-runner since many Republicans have refused to distance themselves from Trump s racist rhetoric, nor say whether they would support him should he win the Republican nomination.
Senator Reid said: These votes will give all Senators a chance to take a stand on the policy issues dominating the public debate and Republicans a chance to stand with the frontrunner for their nomination.
The senator is correct.
After all, Trump s the leader of their party for the presidential nomination and despite the fact that some Republicans have disagreed with him, the overwhelming majority have not taken a stand on his divisive policies on Muslims and Hispanic Americans, especially Mexicans.
That s because they fear alienating his popular support in their party.
Trump currently leads all other Republican candidates by a wide margin for the nomination.
Senator Reid said that it s both important and easy to ascertain what other Republican senators think of Trump and his policies.
Reid said the votes: Can be done easily and efficiently under an open amendment process, with no interference to the light workload Senate Republican leaders have announced for 2016.
Reid s move is actually very smart and it could show the true colors of the Republicans.
It will also put them in a tough spot.
There are a few Republican senators running for reelection in blue-leaning states.
Republicans are defending a total of 24 Senate seats in November.Senator Reid s suggestion comes as congressional Republicans are in Baltimore for their annual policy retreat to decide on issues the party will collectively take stances on for the year.With Trump s enormous popularity among Republican voters, senate Republicans have been treading water with the first-place candidate.
Whether Trump is holding his fellow Republicans hostage because of his popularity or whether they secretly feel the same way, the Republican party appears to be screwed.
Some may criticize Senator Reid s tactic as politically motivated.
Well of course it is!
However, it s also useful.
We need the Republicans to come out and say who they truly are.Featured Image Via Wikimedia Commons