When Donald Trump was a running for office, he and his conservative followers repeatedly called for locking up Hillary Clinton for handling government work with a private server while secretary of state.
Hypocrisy, thy name is GOP.
Newsweek is reporting that senior Trump administration staffers have active accounts on a Republican National Committee email system.
Kellyanne Conway, Jared Kushner, Sean Spicer and Steve Bannon are among those who are using the system (rnchq.org) the same one the George W. Bush administration was accused of using in order to evade transparency rules after claiming to have lost 22 million emails.What they re doing is not illegal but it is ironic.But after then-candidate Donald Trump and the Republicans repeatedly called for locking up Hillary Clinton for handling government work with a private server while secretary of state, the new White House staff risks repeating the same mistake that dogged the Democrat s presidential campaign.
They also face a security challenge: The RNC email system, according to U.S. intelligence, was hacked during the 2016 race.
They better be careful after making such a huge ruckus over the private email over at the State Department, says former Bush administration lawyer Richard Painter.And by the way, Hillary Clinton s server use did not violate the law.
Still yet, last July, an informal adviser to Donald Trump s presidential campaign called for Hillary Clinton s execution.
Al Baldasaro said that Clinton should be put in the firing line and shot for treason because of her use of private email server.It s not known yet how the Trump staffers are using the RNC email addresses, however, if they are actively using them then they are subject to the Disclosure Requirement For Official Business Conducted Using Electronic Messaging Accounts.
If White House staffers have already used the RNC emails system for White House work, they must copy or forward those communications into the government system within 20 days.But wait, there s more!The New York Times is reporting that Trump is still using his old, unsecured Android phone to take calls and tweet despite protests from some of his aides.
Last night when Trump tweeted that he would send in the Feds to Chicago, he was using his Android.
As for the White House phones, Trump said they are the world s most secure system, adding, The words just explode in the air.
Notably, this is the same RNC server that multiple intelligence agencies and officials claim was hacked during the 2016 race.Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images.