THE TRUMP BASHING CONTINUES A Washington Post columnist reviewed a fashion layout/interview Ivanka Trump did with Harper s Bazaar and totally bashed the lovely Ivanka.
You d think it would be somewhat middle-of-road since it s in the arts and entertainment section of the Washington Post.
It s almost like Ivanka was set up by Harper s to have WaPo trash the article.
FYI-If you happen to subscribe to Vogue, Harper s Bazaar or People Magazine, you are putting money in the pockets of the Democrats.
It s pretty sick to trash a person who s done nothing but lead a successful life as a wife, mother and successful business woman.
Pretty nasty!Here s just a small piece of the garbage Washington Post put out on Ivanka Trump:Here s the title and writer of the hit piece: Fashion photographs are all about fresh narratives, but Ivanka Trump is selling the same old story By Robin GivhanThis woman is the WaPo fashion critic?
The headline, Growing up Trump: Ivanka Trump tells all, promises that the story will give readers something if not authenticity, then at least some tidbit that will allow people to know her better, to know her as more than the titles that are applied to her.
Daughter, mother, business woman, sister.Writer Lisa DePaulo questions Trump on her friendship with Chelsea Clinton, her father s unorthodox presidential campaign and her self-declared women s advocacy.
She answers; she doesn t answer.
It s a familiar, coy dance.The pictures, however, are a blatant study in avoidance.
In both images, by photographer Mark Seliger, viewers see Trump in profile.
She never looks her audience in the eye.
Her gaze is focused off into the distance.
The viewer is kept more than an arm s length away.
As she stands perched on the ladder, we look up at her.
She is elevated.
The positioning suggests that she is, in some way, above politics and above the fray.But also, in her rather regal gown set against a grimy landscape, her privileged life and position are underscored.
She makes it very clear in the accompanying article that her wealth has afforded her a host of advantages.
In the story, she comes across as self-aware.
And in the imagery, she is comfortably advantaged.Photos by Mark SeligerRead more: Washington Post