On Thursday, Donald Trump said something terrifying those mass deportations?
They re a military operation.
We re getting really bad dudes out of this country, and at a rate that nobody s ever seen before, Trump said of the deportation force that is currently roaming the country and pulling undocumented immigrants with brain tumors out of hospitals and domestic violence victims out of courtrooms.
And they re the bad ones.
And it s a military operation.
You see what s happening at the border.
All of a sudden for the first time, we re getting gang members out, Trump added.
We re getting drug lords out.
Naturally, the idea of any kind of military operation on U.S. soil doesn t play well with voters even if it does help protect us from cancer patients and bad dudes who might need protection from the men who beat them.
@thehill so let's be clear: the 5000 border patrol he wants to hire are for a "military operation" against America on our own territory?
yep Shockratees (@ThatShockratees) February 23, 2017Deportation is a "Military Operation?"
Did Trump just create his own Gestapo?
#Trumpstapo https://t.co/21IpHtKmuz Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) February 23, 2017@LawyerRogelio So is that a declaration of war on the people in America?
Sounds damn close to one.
A#Resistance_Dog (@elynn_prehn) February 23, 2017 @LawyerRogelio if "it's a military operation" as POTUS says it is, it is illegal.
Military has no police function here.
barry levine (@lowki) February 23, 2017@thehill Another step closer to a dictatorship.
Jack Hand (@JackHand11) February 23, 2017@CBSNews @realDonaldTrump It has shades of 1930's Germany Heir Trump Doug (@wisemagic777) February 23, 2017@CBSNews @CBSLAIs this a violation of the Posse Comitatus Act?
Or maybe did I miss the declaration of martial law?
Odd Year Bob (@Sonova_Beachbum) February 23, 2017@CBSNews Then just make sure they have their Brown Shirts on Joan McGinnis (@JoanPennnative) February 23, 2017Not to worry, though!
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer quickly stepped in to take charge and explain away the President* s statement:: he was just using adjectives.
The president was using that as an adjective.
It is happening with precision, Spicer said.
The president was clearly describing the manner in which this is being done.
Right.
With the military.
Because that s what military operation means.Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly later clarified that troops would not be deployed to enforce immigration laws, thus giving us one more day without Trump deploying troops on American soil.Watch it for yourself below:Featured image via screengrab