Trump s brazen phone calls to various world leaders are upsetting diplomats, and with good reason.
He s voicing admiration for some of the worst dictators in the world, such as the leader of Kazakhstan, and he wants to visit Pakistan.
He also ruffled feathers in some circles when he issued a casual, offhand invitation to Britain s prime minister, Theresa May, following phone calls to nine other world leaders.His most recent phone call was to Taiwan, a country with which the U.S. has had no contact for nearly 40 years.
In doing so, he may have upset the delicate balance that currently exists between us and China, because China thinks of Taiwan as a renegade province.
Okay, so China isn t a country that we re totally in love with right now.
The problem with Trump doing this, though, is that China is still a trading partner, and if he wishes to be able to negotiate a better trade deal with them, he d do well to respect them and the delicate nature of our relationship with them right now.But all Trump has proven thus far is that he s an idiotic, ill-prepared, complete dolt when it comes to handling the presidency, and especially foreign relations.
There things he doesn t even know to think about before calling absolutely everyone on the planet.
White House press secretary Josh Earnest actually begged Trump to go through proper channels, meaning the Department of State, when contacting world leaders.Otherwise, his willy-nilly phone calls like this can shake up, or even destroy, relationships that are already on shaky ground.Like our relationship with China.He certainly didn t try to make a friend out of China during his campaign, blasting them repeatedly for stealing our jobs and essentially saying he was going to strongarm them into a trade agreement that was more favorable to us.
And now Beijing would actually be right if they were pissed at him for this.Trump needs finesse.
He needs discretion.
He needs a shit-ton of help here.
He s going to destroy all of our alliances before he even takes office this way.Featured image via Ty Wright/Getty Images