Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus keeps trying to put lipstick on his pig of a presidential nominee.
However, he is quickly learning that it just isn t working.
Reportedly, Priebus had planned to use the RNC s Twitter account to heap praise upon Trump following his immigration speech.
However, as we all know by now, the speech turned out to be a disaster.It was full of nativist, hateful, anti-immigrant rhetoric and renewed talk of so-called deportation forces, as well as language that re-enforced the idea that immigrants are taking over the country and killing Americans.
In other words, it was nothing but piece after piece of red meat for his racist, ignorant, hateful base of already-won white supporters.
Hell, he even had surrogates whose children had been killed by undocumented immigrants making the rounds in the news media the next day.However, the speech backfired.
So much, in fact that half of Trump s Hispanic Outreach Advisory Board is either reconsidering or outright withdrawing their support (well, at least the ones who aren t afraid of taco trucks on every corner ).
To that end, Priebus was unable to do as he had planned and try and make Trump s immigration speech look good and presidential to the American people.When will Reince Priebus, Paul Ryan, and all the rest of the GOP leadership learn?
Trump might have won that nomination fair and square, but that doesn t mean he is qualified for the job of President of the United States.
Donald Trump is like a toddler that Priebus and Ryan and all the rest are trying to potty train he ll do well and poop in his training pot here and there, but for the most part, he still takes his biggest dumps in his pull-ups, and they have to clean it up.Well, there s no cleaning this one up, boys.
Trump s a racist demagogue, a charlatan who is unfit to hold the office he seeks, and nothing you tell the American people, nothing he reads from any teleprompter, can change that.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images