Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump has been thumbing his nose at the music industry by playing whatever damned songs he wants at his campaign rallies and even at the Republican convention.
Now, the stars have had enough and they put together a music video for John Oliver telling Trump (and other politicians), Stop Using Our Songs.
Several musicians have complained after the Trump campaign, without permission, used their music during rallies, but the issue really cared to a head during the opening night, and again during the closing night, of the Republican National Convention.Generally at a political convention, the nominee doesn t make an appearance until the final night, but Trump graced the stage on night one, with Queen s We Are the Champions blaring from the arena speakers.
The irony of opening the most LGBT unfriendly convention in history with a song sung by a man who died of AIDS didn t get by the remaining members of the band, who told Trump and the world that they did not approve:An unauthorised use at the Republican Convention against our wishes Queen Queen (@QueenWillRock) July 19, 2016Apparently, none of that mattered to the Trump campaign or to the Republican party, because they ended the show with another unauthorized song, but that one might not have been so bad.
It was the Rolling Stones You Can t Always Get What You Want, which seemed, more than anything, to be pointed at all the Republicans who are refusing to endorse the nominee.That s not the first time whoever is in charge of Trump s playlist has seemed to troll him.
Once, during a rally, REM s It s the End of the World As We Know It accompanied the candidate onto the stage.John Oliver, who, fortunately, has the production budget of HBO and was able to put together a super group of sorts of pissed off musicians.
The group included Usher, Cyndi Lauper, Michael Bolton, Josh Groban, John Mellencamp, Heart s Nancy and Ann Wilson, Sheryl Crow and Imagine Dragons Dan Reynolds.In the style of charity singles such as We Are The World, Ann Wilson begins the song with the words: It s that time of year, campaign season s here.
Michael Bolton sings: You wave and point make your speeches while balloons fall everywhere.
Usher continues: But we notice something s wrong and it s gone on way to long/ So we re asking you right now/ Stop using our songs!
It might seem appealing, but you re just stealing, they sing in front of American flags, baseball stadiums and Mount Rushmore.Source: Daily MailThe video did show one song that could be used by Trump, although the cat might object.
Here s the hilarious video:Featured image via video screen capture