Every website has a 404 page that you land on if you type in the wrong address.
They re usually generic with a big 404 to let you know the error of your typing, but some websites like to be clever and let you know you re not where you re supposed to be by making a funny 404 landing page.One of those websites happens to be HillaryClinton.com.If you accidentally type in the wrong web address while looking for something on Hillary s website, you ll be taken to a page that asks: Trying to get where you want to go?
This page isn t it.
But while you re here, how about signing up to volunteer?
via HillaryClinton.comHowever, to get the full effect, one needs to visit the page, because the image is actually an animated GIF.Of course, this is a play on her inability to get her New York City subway Metrocard to swipe through the reader to grant her access to the trains.
However, if anyone rides the NYC subway frequently, they know the disdain most have for those readers and how often they re a huge pain in the ass.
The former Secretary of State finally got the card to swipe after five tries.Many people after it happened took to Twitter to actually relate to the former New York senator:Oh man.
It took Hillary five swipes.
Welcome to the struggle https://t.co/3RGrZVUeVc Brett LoGiurato (@BrettLoGiurato) April 7, 2016Yes, it took Hillary Clinton three or four swipes to get through the turnstile.
Also, it takes everyone three or four swipes.
Dan Merica (@danmericaCNN) April 7, 2016It was definitely a non-story that many, try as they might, tried to use to make Hillary look unrelatable, when actually the opposite was true.
Although, Kate McKinnon of Saturday Night Live perfectly parodied the moment during last week s cold open.Hillary Clinton is a New York subway pro.
?
#SNLhttps://t.co/IFciClbJxo Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) April 10, 2016When embarrassing things happen the only thing one can do is own them and laugh about it, which is exactly what Hillary Clinton has done by making this her 404 page on her website.
No one can say she doesn t have a good sense of humor.Featured Photo via Andrew Theodorakis/Getty Images