On December 5, 2017, Circa s Sara Carter warned there would be a major shake-up at the FBI after the Inspector General s report was completed.
So far, Sara Carter has been right on everything she s reported on, as it relates to the Mueller investigation.
In the video below, Carter tells Sean Hannity why she believes the FBI will have a major shake-up soon there are 27 leakers that the IG is looking at!
Yes, 27 leakers!Sara Carter: We re going to see parts of that report before December (end of the month).
We re going to see other parts of his report coming out after January.
And they re looking at Peter Strzok.
They re looking at Comey.
They re looking at 27 leakers.
It would not surprise me if there was a shake-up at the FBI and a housecleaning.Watch:Is the FBI s former top attorney, James Baker, one of the first leaker casualties?
James Baker, the FBI s leading lawyer who was a confidante of fired FBI Director James Comey, has been reassigned from his post, as the agency s top personnel are under high scrutiny.Baker told colleagues he will assume different duties for the bureau, the Washington Post reported.Baker oversees the bureau s Office of General Counsel and has received such awards as the George H.W.
Bush Award for Excellence in counter-terrorism in 2006.He also was the subject of a leak investigation over the summer after Attorney General Jeff Sessions ordered a crackdown on leakers.The FBI had no comment when asked why Baker was being reassigned and what he would be doing.His reassignment comes at a time of increased scrutiny and pressure on the agency, following the release of private text messages between agents working in the Hillary Clinton email probe.
Daily Mail Three sources, with knowledge of the investigation, told Circa that Baker is the top suspect in an ongoing leak investigation, but Circa has not been able to confirm the details of what national security information or material was allegedly leaked.A federal law enforcement official with knowledge of ongoing internal investigations in the bureau told Circa, the bureau is scouring for leakers and there s been a lot of investigations.
The revelation comes as the Trump administration has ramped up efforts to contain leaks both within the White House and within its own national security apparatus.Baker is a close confidant of former FBI Director James Comey, and recent media reports suggested he was reportedly advising the then-FBI director on legal matters following private meetings the former director had in February with President Trump in the Oval Office.Baker was appointed to the FBI s general counsel by Comey in 2014 and has had a long and distinguished history within the intelligence community.