There are a lot of Republican members of Congress who can t stand even the prospect of having their town halls disrupted by protesters, even if those protesters are their own constituents.
Some think that the disruption prevents meaningful dialogue with their real constituents, while others probably buy into Trump s narrative that the protesters are paid liberal activists.And some are just avoiding their constituents entirely, fearfully hiding behind telephones or just refusing to meet with them at all.
And constituents have begun fighting back.In Pennsylvania, where Sen. Pat Toomey refused to meet with people opposed to repealing the Affordable Care Act.
They had a meeting anyway and had an empty suit up on stage representing Toomey:No Toomey, no problem for Obamacare rally in Allentown, report says https://t.co/S7h2i6nVFo pic.twitter.com/zvTr2w86P1 lehighvalleylive.com (@lehighvalley) February 22, 2017Some have begun putting their senators and representatives faces on milk cartons, a la missing persons notices.
These are framed like missing persons notices, too.
One was posted to Twitter by an account calling itself Where Is Paul Cook, and their tweet has pictures of half-gallon milk jugs with Cook s photo on it and a big MISSING label across the top.Reports of these milk jugs spotted in local stores all over the 8th district #WhereIsPaulCook @RepPaulCook @VVDailyPress pic.twitter.com/RsVLAgCw9n Where Is Paul Cook (@WhereIsPaulCook) February 20, 2017Two others are missing persons ads in local papers, one for Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, and another for Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina.
Both start with LOST United States Senator.
Both have nearly identical wording despite being in two completely different papers.
The ad for Rubio is below:@IndivisibleTeam look at what appeared in the Palm Beach Post today.
pic.twitter.com/r8VPpNzmnV Kira (@KiraCA76) February 22, 2017Then there s a group in New York State that s been taking out ads on billboards asking where Rep. Chris Collins is.
He was the first member of Congress to endorse Donald Trump for President, and so of course Trump has been trying to butter him up since then.
But Collins, like all the others, has been missing from town halls.This billboard just went up in Rep Chris Collins home district in Western New York.
#NY27 pic.twitter.com/8OInIEVJan Jill a-go-go (@jillagogo) February 14, 2017In some places, where people want to prove that they re not part of these alleged paid liberal activist groups trying to stop meaningful dialogue, they ve resorted to things like holding up their drivers licenses at meetings to show that they really are upset constituents:Everyone holding up their CO driver s license to prove that it s all Coloradans wanting to talk with @SenCoryGardner ?
pic.twitter.com/hIySskpeZA IndivisibleNOCO (@IndivisibleNOCO) February 22, 2017It s sad when constituents are reduced to things like this simply because their reps don t want to hear what they have to say, or know and understand that they re angry.
Our Senators and Representatives in Congress are supposed to represent us, not the rich, not the corporations, us.
It seems there are an awful lot of people who are legitimately trying to wrest that power back.Featured image via screen capture from embedded tweet