Most sane people have been extremely alarmed that we have a toddler in a 70-year-old man s body at the top of a major party s presidential nominee.
That person is, of course, Republican Donald J. Trump.
Trump has managed to do a million things that would have destroyed any other candidate s campaign, but still he powered on to win the GOP nomination.During this travesty of a campaign, Trump s wife Melania has largely been absent from the campaign trail.
She has been visible at the debates in the family box, of course, but hasn t said a word since she was humiliated by giving a conventions speech that was plagiarized from First Lady Michelle Obama s 2008 speech at the Democratic National Convention.
Now, in the wake of her husband humiliating her entire family by being caught on a hot mic having a horrifically lewd and offensive conversation about women with then-Access Hollywood host Billy Bush, Melania Trump is breaking her silence.She sat down to discuss the tape and her husband s behavior with CNN s Anderson Cooper, in which while she said the language used by both men was unacceptable, Melania seemed to take a boys will be boys angle on the whole thing, and even took the whole thing a bit further by literally calling her 70-year-old husband a kid.
Here is the exchange, via The Hill: It s kinda like two teenage boys actually they should behave better, right?
the potential first lady said about her husband and former Access Hollywood host Billy Bush.
He was 59, Cooper said.
Correct, Trump responded.
Sometimes I said I have two boys at home I have my young son and I have my husband, Trump said.
I know how some men talk.
That s how I saw it.
Melania Trump went on to say: We talk a lot, a lot about the campaign.
We talk about the language because I don t allow that he uses bad language.
But I tell him that, you know, there are consequences as well, and he he needs to be careful [with the] language he uses.
Unfortunately, I ve got news for Mrs. Trump.
Her husband IS a kid, just as she alluded to herself.
That alone should tell her what the rest of us already know: he should not be running for president.Watch the exchange below:Melania Trump on "locker room talk": "I know how some men talk and that's how I saw it, yes" https://t.co/IDm7N1ioh5 https://t.co/0UMZBrGmw5 CNN (@CNN) October 18, 2016Featured image via video screen capture