#JokeNewsAfter record, cold temperatures were reported across the United States, President Trump took to Twitter to mock the Global Warming scam supported by shyster politicians like Al Gore and Barack Obama, who were poised to extort trillions of US taxpayer dollars to fund their global climate change scam.Trump tweeted: In the East, it could be the COLDEST New Year s Eve on record.
Perhaps we could use a little bit of that good old Global Warming that our Country, but not other countries, was going to pay TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS to protect against.
Bundle up!
In the East, it could be the COLDEST New Year s Eve on record.
Perhaps we could use a little bit of that good old Global Warming that our Country, but not other countries, was going to pay TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS to protect against.
Bundle up!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 29, 2017Accuweather backed up President Trump s tweet with this report:Cold air rivaling that of the past 100 years for late December and early January will make it painful to be outdoors and may lead to damage in the central and the northeastern United States.AccuWeather RealFeel Temperatures are projected to be below zero over much of the Northeast and well below zero in much of the Midwest.In the coming days, RealFeel temperatures 5 to 20 degrees below zero will be common.
in the northern tier, RealFeel temperatures may dip as low as 30 to 40 degrees below zero.From The Hill:Former Jersey Shore cast member Vinny Guadagnino shot back at President Trump on Thursday after Trump said the United States could use some good old global warming to heat up cold states.
I think climate change is more complex than global warming will make it hotter, Guadagnino tweeted to Trump.
It has to do with disruptions of atmospheric conditions, ocean patterns, jet streams and s t like that.
"Jersey Shore" cast member schools Trump on climate change https://t.co/Vlfl6hskeT pic.twitter.com/URSHWTqgw0 The Hill (@thehill) December 29, 2017The former MTV reality star later responded to Twitter users who mocked him for replying to Trump, asking why does having a summer shore house automatically make [you] stupid?
Per my last tweet about global warming and ppl saying it s bad when someone from jersey shore educates the president etc.I get the joke but why does having a summer shore house automatically make u stupid?No smart ppl ever partied with friends on weekends?
Vinny Guadagnino (@VINNYGUADAGNINO) December 29, 2017The Hill then attempted to prove how smart Vinny Guadagnino s was because other Democrats also mocked President Trump s tweet:Democratic lawmakers also slammed Trump following the tweet.Sen.
Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.)
tweeted that the U.S. has a moral obligation to combat climate change, and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) blasted the tweet as embarrassing.
Trump has denied that global warming exists in the past, claiming it was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive.
Here s a closer look at the guy who The Hill claims schooled President Trump on phony Global Warming on Twitter: The energizer bunny !
Follow me on vinguadagnino for more inspiration in a chipmunk voice pic.twitter.com/JWj3OmKhf5 Vinny Guadagnino (@VINNYGUADAGNINO) December 6, 2017Here s how Twitter users responded to The Hill s tweet:Mueller Day mocked The Hill for using a guy who coined the phrase GTL (gym, tan, laundry) for suggesting he schooled our President.Ok, the dude who was instrumental in coining the phrase "GTL" (gym, tan, laundry) has just schooled the "president" on the science behind global warming.
The world can end now.
We've come full circle and there's nothing left to do.
Mueller day (@TiersOfLove) December 29, 2017This Twitter user mocked The Hill for using a reality MTV show cast member s tweet to disproved President Trump s belief about phony global warming science:Yikes!
You're scraping the bottom of the barrel, aren't ya?
Who's next?
Mama June on foreign affairs (@EuroRaver) December 30, 2017nea sportsfan reminds The Hill that the Founder of the Weather Channel says climate change is bull Founder of weather channel says climate change is bull nea sportsfan (@sportsfanNEA) December 30, 2017twentyman also mocked The Hill for using the reality MTV star s tweet, calling them #FakeNews: Jet streams and shit like that what school are you referring to, you #FakeNews propagator?
"Jet streams and shit like that" what 'school' are you referring to, you #FakeNews propagator?
twentyman (@tirbagofah) December 29, 2017Justin hilariously reminded The Hill of a 2015 tweet by Bernie Sanders:Maybe Vinny can "school" Bernie too.https://t.co/wW9qEuhykH Justin (@JustCrum79) December 29, 2017Here s the tweet from Bernie Sanders where he blames a 65-degree day on Christmas Eve in 2015 on climate change :Nobody can recall a Christmas Eve where the temperature was 65 degrees.
Why is it that we're not effectively addressing climate change?
Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) December 28, 2015