With the 9th Circuit Court ruling against the Trump administration and in favor of Washington State, Minnesota, and by proxy everyone else that was harmed by his Muslim ban, we have the inevitable rage-fest from Trump, along with people who are spitting in his face and stomping on his pride because they agree with the courts.One of the people who probably agrees with how the courts have been ruling is Sally Yates, the acting attorney general that Trump fired because she refused to enforce the ban.
Trump didn t just quietly let her go, though.
He accused her of betraying her department, and implied that she d betrayed the U.S.Now, enter Eric Holder.
He was Obama s attorney general before Loretta Lynch, and spearheaded Department of Justice investigations into controversial things, such as whether the police department in Ferguson, Missouri was guilty of racial profiling, among other things.
Holder, of course, also seems to believe that Trump s Muslim ban was a bad idea.So he, too, is rubbing the 9th Circuit s decision in Trump s face because, surprise surprise, Yates was vindicated in her decision to refuse to enforce the Muslim ban.
Here s what Holder posted to Twitter:Skill, judgment, courgage.
VINDICATED.
3-0 pic.twitter.com/5A2uPTXRps Eric Holder (@EricHolder) February 10, 2017Yup.Trump has called the decision political, because of course he thinks that way.
He said as much to the White House press corps off-camera:Listen to audio of President Trump reacting to appeals court ruling against reinstating his travel ban executive order.
via @KellyO pic.twitter.com/WZEMXxKlM5 NBC News (@NBCNews) February 10, 2017He also took to Twitter to vow, in all caps, to see his opponents on this in court, meaning he ll try to appeal this to the Supreme Court.
The best thing that could happen would be for the Supreme Court to decline to even hear the case.In the meantime, Sally Yates is vindicated, and Trump can go suck it.Read more:Featured image by Aaron P. Bernstein via Getty Images