What is the price of one s dignity?
Florida Senator Marco Rubio recently found himself wrestling with that question and came up with the answer I d exchange it for nothing, just as long as I get 15 more minutes in the spotlight.
Donald Trump obliged.Having just months ago described Trump as a small dick lunatic con artist (remember how insane the Republican primary was?
), Rubio knelt down and kissed the ring this week.
On Twitter, he officially endorsed Trump in the most roundabout way possible:In Florida only 2 legitimate candidates on ballot in Nov.
I wont vote for Clinton & I after years of asking people to vote I wont abstain.
Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) May 27, 2016Rubio s the kind of spineless politician who won t abstain from voting for Trump, a guy whose rallies he once colorfully described as a frightening, grotesque, and disturbing development in American politics.
He s voting for that guy.The day before, Rubio said he would give Trump a more ringing endorsement if he let him speak at the Republican National Convention this summer.
At one point, Rubio was poised to be the Republican nominee, now he s reduced to begging Trump to let him share the same stage.Apart from the promise of a few Rubio endorses Trump headlines, it s baffling to think of why Rubio decided to sell out, and so quickly.
The Washington Examiner, a right-wing publication no less, blasted Rubio for his shamelessness.It s one thing to begrudgingly argue that as dangerous as he thinks a Trump presidency would be, that he thinks a Clinton presidency would be even worse.
But to actually say that he would be honored by the chance to speak on Trump s behalf at the GOP convention, and to downplay his previously stated problems with Trump as mere policy differences, is to prove the Rubio skeptics right.That is, far from being an inspirational moral leader, Rubio has shown himself to be more of an opportunistic politician with his finger to the wind.The major problem: Supporting Trump is almost sure to backfire.
In the aftermath of the nuclear meltdown coming in November, those closest to Trump are going to be fatally radioactive.
In Chernobyl they were referred to as the walking ghosts, already doomed but still alive.
In November, they ll just be called Trump s supporters.
Rubio, who is retiring from the Senate at the end of his term (he hardly bothered to work there anyway), is reportedly having second thoughts.
He may see throwing himself at the feet of Trump as one way to get his hat back in the ring if he decides to run again.It s a bad miscalculation.
Trump may seem popular to the guy who just got absolutely smoked by him in the primary, but the American people still actively loathe Trump.
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie learned that lesson the hard way.
Already unpopular, a recent poll found that after he announced he would be serving as Trump s campaign jester, a whopping 49 percent of New Jersey voters said they dislike everything about Gov.
Christie.
As polling questions go, that s about the sickest burn imaginable.The internet was quick to reminder Rubio of the fate he just chose for himself.
@marcorubio so you'll vote for a guy you called a con artist.
A guy you called a lunatic.
A guy you called unfit to be president!
#sellout Raj Chudgar (@RajPC1) May 27, 2016Trump tricking Rubio into a Senate loss that would permanently end his career would be the universe's way of making a case that karma exists LOLGOP (@LOLGOP) May 27, 2016Based on how Rubio has (further) diminished himself in the last 24 hours, maybe Trump's nickname was apt, after all?
Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports) May 27, 2016I think Ted Cruz will rise to run another day.
Marco Rubio will not.
https://t.co/DM2H7Sayjx Jamelle Bouie (@jbouie) May 27, 2016Marco Rubio: "I will help Donald Trump get elected.
Yes, he's a crazy, unstable con-man, but I love the GOP more than I love America."
Top Conservative Cat (@TeaPartyCat) May 26, 2016It s almost as if opportunistically attaching yourself to a lying, sexist, Islamophobic blowhard who once derisively called you little Marco makes you look bad.
Who knew?Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images