Rowan county clerk Kim Davis already had her five minutes of fame; her time is over and done with.
Or is it?
At, least, it was until some Republican by the name of Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) gave tickets to President Obama s last State of the Union address to the Family Research Council, who then, in turn, gave the exclusive rights to one of the tickets to Mrs. Davis.Now, unfortunately, her five minutes of fame has been extended to six minutes.
Heck, we wouldn t even grant her that right if she wasn t one of the top trending topics in the internet chatter world Tuesday night.
But, the reality is, she is.
For some reason, people can t get enough of Kim Davis she must have all the makings of a star.A reporter caught up with Davis after Obama concluded his last remarks for the night, and uttered just four words of what she thought about her experience: It was a speech.
En exclusivit mondiale, Kim Davis pour l'AFP.
"Je voulais encourager tous les Chr tiens" pic.twitter.com/yoCzflde2m Ivan Couronne (@ivancouronne) January 13, 2016While not the kindest reply (it certainly was much more of a speech), it also wasn t the most thought-provoking either.
But, hey, what else do you expect coming from the mouth of Kim Davis?
Here is a suggestion for Kim, in four words: just do your job.In all fairness, the internet was much harsher to her than her characterization of the president s speech ever was, and it s not even close.
While it s never a good thing to be mean, she must have known a good roasting was coming her way.Here are a few of the top (and funniest) comments she received on the internet after so brazenly deciding to show her face on the most important day in politics.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Uproxx.Pic via Uproxx.Pic via Uproxx.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.What can we say?
Kim keeps showing up in the limelight and we, as a people, continue taking the bait.
She may not be relevant, but she sure is a target no one can disagree with that.
Her facial expressions were probably some of the most scrutinized, right up there with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan.
He appeared virtually emotionless throughout the entire speech, with a few slight movements here and there.
It was almost like there was an unannounced contest between him and Kim Davis on who could appear to be the least interested in whatever the president was saying.
Maybe they were playing chicken with each other; we don t know.
What is clear is that Kim Davis will forever be in our memories, if not in our hearts.Featured image via screen capture.