Donald Trump is the ultimate hypocrite and Fox host Chris Wallace called him out for it on Sunday.During the campaign, Trump repeatedly bashed positive monthly jobs reports by claiming that they were somehow being faked by President Obama to make it appear that the economy was improving under his watch.
Trump dismissed the low unemployment rate as well, claiming that he heard that it was much higher, as high as 42 percent, which is an outrageous lie.Chris Wallace played footage of this while interviewing Trump s chief economic adviser and former Goldman Sachs executive.
You know, the same Goldman Sachs that Donald Trump repeatedly vilified during the campaign because of Hillary Clinton s ties to them.Anyway, Wallace pointed out that while Trump is touting the recent February jobs report that shows the economy added 235,000 jobs and the unemployment rate dropped from 4.8 to 4.7 percent, he is clearly being a hypocrite because he called previous jobs reports phony.
If that s true, why should we believe these numbers?
Wallace demanded to know before noting that Trump inherited a strengthening economy from the Obama administration.
And the fact is, did you inherit an economy that has been for the last 18 months somewhere between 4.6 and 5 percent unemployment?
Of course, rather than admit that Trump is full of shit, Cohn ignored the question and made it sound like Trump is an economic hero.
The economy continues to grow and we are doing out part, Cohn said before claiming that CEOs are telling Trump that they are adding jobs because of him.
We are creating these jobs because of you, Mr. President, and your policies.
Which have not, yet, come into any sort of effect.Here s the video via YouTube:The bottom line is that the economy is continuing to grow because of President Obama s economic policies.
Many of the investment plans that companies are announcing right now were in motion well before the election in November.
But Trump has been desperately trying to take credit for the economy.So let s all remember how Trump is currently taking credit for all the good economic news.
Because once the economy implodes under his watch, he ll definitely try to blame the black guy for it.Featured Image: Screenshot