Donald Trump s roll-back of actions designed to fight climate change horrified the legendary conservationist.Jane Goodall is famous for her longtime studies of apes and chimpanzees.During the 2016 campaign, Goodall put this expertise to good use by comparing Trump to the chimpanzees she researched.
In many ways the performances of Donald Trump remind me of male chimpanzees and their dominance rituals, Goodall said.
In order to impress rivals, males seeking to rise in the dominance hierarchy perform spectacular displays: stamping, slapping the ground, dragging branches, throwing rocks.
The more vigorous and imaginative the display, the faster the individual is likely to rise in the hierarchy, and the longer he is likely to maintain that position.
And she was right.
Trump s ape-like behavior thrilled his supporters and sent him to the White House where he has embarrassed himself and the nation so much that many Americans probably wish an actual chimpanzee had won instead of him, especially after what Trump did earlier this week.As a conservationist, Goodall has traveled the world and witnessed the effects of climate change firsthand.So when Trump signed yet another executive order to reverse rules put in in place by President Obama to slow down or reverse the effects of climate change, hr usual optimism soured.Referring to Trump s executive order as immensely depressing, Goodall expressed how sad it is that the United States is declining to play its part to save the world.
Many of us, not just my institute but many, we ve been working really hard to create the Paris agreement and global efforts to cut emissions, Goodall told journalists.
Thinking that the USA isn t going to play its part, such an industrial country, is really very, very sad.
And it means we re going to have to work harder.
Indeed, while the United States is not the only nation in the world, our influence on the international stage is critical to any agreement of between countries, especially when it comes to financial, technological, and military resources.Trump s irresponsible order to reverse our nation s involvement in fighting climate change not only threatens the rest of the world, it threatens America as well, especially our coastlines, which are in danger of being under several feet of water due to sea level rise caused by increasingly melting ice caps.Trump s beloved Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida will be under water in the near future if we do not act now.But Trump had adopted the conservative line that climate change is not real and that science is fake.
He s a climate change denier, and Jane Goodall has zero tolerance for that stance.
I would not dream of refuting the science that shows climate change is happening, Goodall said.
It s happening everywhere.
It s already having devastating effects in many parts of the world.
The droughts are getting worse, flooding s getting worse.
Storms, hurricanes are getting more frequent and more violent.
And the main thing is unpredictability.
Everywhere I go, people say, Well it s not normally like that at this time of year.
And Trump s attack on climate action is causing scientists to lose hope.
There is definitely a feeling of gloom and doom among all the people I know, Goodall continued.
If we allow this feeling of doom and gloom to continue, then it will be very, very bad.
But my job is to give people hope.
Bu despite her high hopes that we can push back and reinstate the climate actions, even Goodall conceded that she sees the future of our children and grandchildren being unraveled right before our eyes by a man who doesn t care about thing or anyone but himself.
Even a chimpanzee would have more compassion.Featured Image: Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images