Last night, Saturday Night Live delivered a brutal blow to Hollywood s diversity issues, calling the Academy Awards out for overlooking minority actors in favor of all-white nominees.The Academy s diversity problem came to light when nominees were announced for the 88th annual Academy Awards revealing that no black actors were nominated for individual acting categories.
If you look at the Awards entire history, a mere 31 of over 2,900 Oscars have been awarded to African American actors, and it s been two years since a non-white actor has been nominated.Once the nomination lineup was released, many celebrities and directors spoke out against the seemingly racist ceremony, and SNL added its voice to the controversy in a powerful parody.
Although SNL never once mentioned the Academy Awards, the show s intention for their Screen Guild Awards couldn t be more clear as cast member Cecily Strong announced all-white nominees for best actor films representative of Creed, Straight Outta Compton, and Beasts of No Nation.
It isn t long before you notice that the Best Actor winners are all-white nominees with little to no on-screen or speaking roles.
You can watch the video below:Many celebrities such as Jada Pinkett Smith, director Spike Lee, Danny DeVito and Viola Davis have called Hollywood out for its racism and lack of diversity.
In no time, #OscarsSoWhite was trending on social media.
On Instagram, Lee wrote: We cannot support it and [I] mean no disrespect But, how is it possible for the second consecutive year all 20 contenders under the acting category are white?
And let s not even get into the other branches.
Forty white actors in two years and no flava at all.
We can t act?!
WTF!!
Amid the controversy, The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has made emergency changes to ensure that more diversity is included in the future.
These changes in rules include increasing the number of nominees in every category, expanding the number of films for best picture to ten and adding new members to its committees to help make important decisions about membership and governance.Featured image is a screenshot