House Republicans have long since made clear their dislike and disdain of the United Nations.
Some of them seem to buy into conspiracy theories that the U.N. is trying to take our sovereignty away from us.
Others are just idiots, and the House GOP proved that when they passed a resolution that would allow Congress to yank our funding from the U.N. over just one issue.That issue is the apartheid state of Israel, which is also home to an awful lot of human rights violations.
The U.N. recently approved a resolution declaring Israel s settlements in Palestine illegal, and the U.S. abstained from that vote, so it passed 14-0.
In retaliation, the GOP wants the option of yanking our financial contributions unless the U.N. does what they want.The Zionists we ve got in Congress called this resolution anti-Israel.
Sen. Ted Cruz said: I believe Congress should end U.S. taxpayer funding for the United Nations unless and until the U.N. reverses this anti-Israel resolution, and I believe there will be considerable support in Congress, I hope in both parties, to do exactly that.
The House Freedom Caucus, made up of Tea Partiers who are uber-religious, will meet next week to discuss two options: Decreasing/ending funding entirely, or making our funding voluntary something Congress has to decide on every two years.And Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) put in his two cents with: The United Nations will regret this vote and I hope the Obama Administration will realize the massive mistake they made on their way out of the door.
Seriously?
Yes, seriously.
Worse, though, Sen. Tom Tehran Cotton, the architect of that ridiculous letter threatening Iran, said: Any American with any common sense knows that Senegal and Malaysia don t set the agenda for the Security Council, the United States does.
And this resolution would not have gone forward if the United States did not want it to go forward.
So the whole world should bow to us, including the peacekeeping United Nations.
We are completely and utterly beyond reproach, at all times, in all situations.
Yeah, we re that awesome.
Nobody should condemn Israel for anything, ever, period, end, because they are, apparently, God.Oh, please.Never mind all the good the U.N. has done.
Protecting Israel, and sending taxpayer dollars there, is so important that it s worth killing 22 percent of their budget to make a point.
Israel called the vote a betrayal, and since we apparently dance to their tune (despite all conservative cries that we re a sovereign nation), we ve decided the U.N. betrayed Israel, too.Israel s settlements in Palestine are illegal, make no mistake.
Republicans like to paint the U.S. as this bastion of freedom and democracy, but they like to practice that selectively.
Otherwise they d condemn Israel, as the rest of the U.N. did, and that would be that.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images