Despite all the problems plaguing Donald Trump over his failed Trump University, he says he plans to reopen it after the lawsuit is over.
He believes that he ll win the case, or that it ll be dismissed or otherwise disposed of, despite overwhelming evidence that the whole scam was just that a complete fraud.
On Trump s warped planet, this whole thing just makes Trump U. a pile of gold.That s not all, though.
Not only did he say he s planning to reopen it after the suit, he also plans to be president:After the litigation is disposed of and the case won, I have instructed my execs to open Trump U(?
), so much interest in it!
I will be pres.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 2, 2016Trump U. closed in 2010 because they couldn t afford to stay open with so few students enrolling in its $35,000 Gold program.
A former employee told CBS News that the program was run into the ground, but Trump says there s tons of interest in it now.
Even if that s true, the man is an unethical profiteer who will likely do the same thing again.New York s attorney general has been investigating Trump U. for fraud for a long time, and he says that Trump knew it was a fraud.
For instance, he claimed in video tapes that he handpicked instructors, but later testified under oath that he never met the instructors, meaning they weren t handpicked, nor were they experts.Internal documents also show how Trump U. pushed students through increasingly expensive courses without really teaching them any of the real estate mogul s secrets.
Students were left with heavy debt and little hope of making their dreams of wealth come true.Trump fancies himself a master negotiator, and keeps saying that s why he ll be a great president.
He s making people think he can negotiate us out of whatever rut conservatives think we re in.
However, he wields lawsuits as one of his prime negotiating tools, which very likely wasn t taught in his courses.
He and his organization just fleeced students for all they were worth (and, in many cases, more).Just how does he think Trump U. will fare if he loses the suit?
Or at all?
This reeks of the posturing that s so typical of Trump when someone makes him look bad.
The lawsuit against Trump U. has definitely made him look terrible, and he s trying to make up for it now.Featured image by Thos Robinson/Getty Images