Donald Trump has revived the birther conspiracy theory, but this time he has targeted a fellow Republican: Ted Cruz.Cruz has begun creeping up in some state polls, particularly in evangelical-heavy Iowa, so as he has done in the past Trump went on the attack.Donald Trump said in an interview that rival Ted Cruz s Canadian birthplace was a very precarious issue that could make the Texas senator vulnerable if he became the Republican presidential nominee.
Republicans are going to have to ask themselves the question: Do we want a candidate who could be tied up in court for two years?
That d be a big problem, Trump said when asked about the topic.
It d be a very precarious one for Republicans because he d be running and the courts may take a long time to make decision.
You don t want to be running and have that kind of thing over your head.
Trump added, I d hate to see something like that get in his way.
But a lot of people are talking about it and I know that even some states are looking at it very strongly, the fact that he was born in Canada and he has had a double passport.
Trump is easily the most visible proponent of the birther conspiracy theory.
Before the 2012 election, Trump made numerous national television appearances demanding that President Obama release his birth certificate.
Trump even claimed that he had enlisted right-wing Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio to send a cold case posse to Hawaii to investigate Obama s past.The reality TV star even made a bizarre video requesting Obama s college records in order for the Hawaiian-born president to prove his citizenship.Senator Cruz s mother was a U.S. citizen when she gave birth to him in Calgary, Canada, which easily fulfills the requirement for someone to be a natural-born citizen of the United States.
While Cruz s ideas may be repellent to the majority of citizens, he is easily eligible to be President of the United States.After years of trying to de-legitimize President Obama through two terms, it is odd to see the tactic turned against the right s own candidates.
Like so much of their rhetoric, it resembles Frankenstein building his monster then watching it turn on him instead of his enemies.Featured image via Flickr