Joe Scarborough says Donald Trump is acting like a dictator because of the way he fired acting Attorney General Sally Yates.Yates stood up to Trump and refused to defend his unconstitutional executive order banning people from entering the United States if they are traveling from seven specific countries in the Middle East and Africa.The order violates constitutional rights and caused worldwide chaos over the weekend while sparking protests and condemnation around the globe.
The acting Attorney General, Sally Yates, has betrayed the Department of Justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States, Trump said in a statement from the White House.
Ms. Yates is an Obama Administration appointee who is weak on borders and very weak on illegal immigration.
Trump s words shocked the Morning Joe host, who compared the way Trump fired Yates to how a tyrant would do it.
The word betrayed, using the word betrayed for somebody, that s frightening, Scarborough said on Tuesday morning.
That s what an autocrat would use, whoever put that word in there.
An autocrat is just another term for dictator or tyrant.
Scarborough went on to slam Trump for acting like a petulant child.
There are people that can have reasonable differences without saying that, if they don t agree with you, they ve betrayed you.
That is frightening, chilling language, whether they had a right to do this or not But saying somebody betrayed the Justice Department because they don t agree with you?
Take that to Venezuela, OK?
We don t really want to use that sort of language here.
It s time for you guys to grow up.
Here s the video via YouTube.Apparently, Donald Trump intends to fire anyone in our government who disagrees with him, and that s dangerous.Yates, as acting Attorney General, explained her responsibilities in a letter that makes it clear that she was trying to protect the integrity of the Justice Department by not jumping to defend an order without all the facts.
My responsibility is to ensure that the position of the Department of Justice is not only legally defensible, but is informed by our best view of what the law is after consideration of all the facts.
In addition, I am responsible for ensuring that the positions we take in court remain consistent with this institution s solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right.
At present, I am not convinced that the defense of the executive order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am I convinced that the executive order is lawful.
This is particularly scary because once Trump has full control of the Justice Department he will cripple it and no amount of protests or lawsuits will prevent him from doing so.
We may even lose the power to oust Trump via elections.
As long as Trump is allowed to solidify his power, no election will ever be fair and free again.
And he will use the Justice Department to make sure of it, which means we will have no legal means to save democracy.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images