As Attorney General, Jeff Sessions is the top law enforcement person in this country.
He s also under investigation for colluding with the Russians and for lying about it.
Let that sink in for just a moment.There s a new report out on Thursday, which, whether or not it is to be believed, is more bad news for Sessions.According to an article in The Guardian, an American lobbyist for Russian banking and oil interests claims that he had dinner with Sessions.
This is in direct conflict to what Sessions claimed in front of the Senate just this week.Sessions testified under oath on Tuesday that he did not believe he had any contacts with lobbyists working for Russian interests over the course of Trump s campaign.
But Richard Burt, a former ambassador to Germany during the Reagan administration, who has represented Russian interests in Washington, told the Guardian that he could confirm previous media reports that stated he had contacts with Sessions at the time.
I did attend two dinners with groups of former Republican foreign policy officials and Senator Sessions, Burt said.Burt, who previously served on the advisory board of Alfa Capital Partners, a private equity fund where Russia s Alfa Bank was an investor and last year was lobbying on behalf of a pipeline company that is now controlled by Gazprom, Russia s state-controlled energy conglomerate, first told Politico in October that he had been invited to two dinners that were hosted by Sessions last summer, at the height of the presidential campaign.There are two ways this could play out for Sessions.
Either Burt is telling the truth, which is a possible smoking gun for perjury and obstruction, or he s lying.
While Republicans seem to be operating under the assumption that Putin is holding them tight in his warm shirtless embrace, the truth is that Putin doesn t give a crap about Jeff Sessions, Donald Trump or Paul Ryan.Russia s goal is to destabilize the United States using the best tools at their disposal, and right now, Republicans are their biggest tools.
That will change the moment the idiots prove they re no longer useful.
Burt s statement could, even if not true, prove that Session s usefulness is done.
Russia could be ready to turn on the Trump administration.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.