There s no love lost between CNN and Donald Trump, and CNN doesn t care.
Jake Tapper regularly cuts Trump and his administration on his broadcast; the network has told the White House that they won t let Kellyanne Conway on their Sunday shows; and now, Michael Smerconish just tore Trump a new one for his childish tantrum over a federal judge halting his Muslim ban.
Earlier today, Trump tweeted these three things:The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017Because the ban was lifted by a judge, many very bad and dangerous people may be pouring into our country.
A terrible decision Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017The judge opens up our country to potential terrorists and others that do not have our best interests at heart.
Bad people are very happy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 5, 2017Yeah.
Our so-called president called a Bush-appointed federal judge a so-called judge, and he s throwing a tantrum because said judge took his ball away after he threw it at someone else s head.
CNN s Michael Smerconish really let loose: So-called judge?
It s a federal judge appointed by President George W. Bush.
I try and show the office of the president respect in the way that he ought to be showing respect for a member of the federal judiciary.
And Trump refused to show that respect with these tweets.
He insulted the entire judiciary branch, and also insulted his own office when he whined and cried and screamed that the judicial branch is doing its job.
Watch Smerconish s takedown below:In addition to doing some basic reading on how the judicial branch works, he needs to stop pretending that we have no idea who s coming into the country simply because enforcement of his order has been halted.
He s insulting the Department of State, Department of Homeland Security, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection when he says that.
As altUSCustoms put it on Twitter:Halting enforcement of Trump s travel ban does NOT mean we suddenly have no idea who s coming into the country.
AltUSCustoms (@alt_uscbp) February 4, 2017We know who s coming in.
We knew before, and we still know.
Trump s insistence on saying we don t know is dangerous.
AltUSCustoms (@alt_uscbp) February 4, 2017And USCBP has not been rendered toothless and impotent because a federal judge halted his ban.
THAT is just insulting to both CBP and DHS.
AltUSCustoms (@alt_uscbp) February 4, 2017Can the whole country stop pretending that Trump will ever be anything other than a lying, ignorant, entitled, spoiled little brat?
He shouldn t be in charge of taking pictures at the DMV, let alone sitting in the White House.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images/screen capture