Donald Trump hired himself a personal lawyer to represent him in the Russia investigation.
Marc Kasowitz, though, isn t a criminal attorney or a constitutional attorney.
He s a corporate and real estate attorney, and if his response to former FBI head James Comey s testimony on Thursday is any indication, he s not good with details.
The response is riddled with errors he (or his staff) even misspelled the word President.
While the statement is a pretty standard attempt to paint a rosy picture on Comey s testimony (it was released before the testimony), but it s difficult to take seriously.The letter begins, I am Marc Kasowitz, Predisent Trump s personal lawyer.
Clearly Kasowitz isn t familiar with spellcheck, because mine really fought that misspelling.The letter also misspells the name of National Intelligence Director Dan Coats.
It was spelled Coates.
Some sentences had extra periods.Here s the full letter:Twitter had a field day with the errors:TRUMP S LAWYER: If I say the *preDISent* did nothing wrong I m technically not lying.
pic.twitter.com/vP7ZFzZvS2 Jesse McLaren (@McJesse) June 8, 2017Aha, the loophole.
He doesn t represent President Trump, he represents Predisent Trump.
https://t.co/MAdEbOEZlJ Josh Barro (@jbarro) June 8, 2017How can people believe #JamesComey over Predisent Trump?
Need I remind you that the Bowling Green Massacre happened under Comey s watch Marie Connor (@thistallawkgirl) June 8, 2017 predisent Trump I admire the commitment of all Trump people to typos.
https://t.co/S53AVLnWtu Jeet Heer (@HeerJeet) June 8, 2017 Predisent is the latin conjugate for President david trust me i am both a doctor and a lawyer pic.twitter.com/kiOeJAIcro darth: (@darth) June 8, 2017Or maybe he did use spellcheck.Even spell check thinks Donald Trump isn t fit to serve as President.
#Predisent pic.twitter.com/tbRLHbVn14 Marie Connor (@thistallawkgirl) June 8, 2017Even 538 s Nate Silver mocked him:This is the moment Donald Trump became predisent.
Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) June 8, 2017In the big picture, do a few typos matter?
Not really, but this is emblematic of an administration that s careless and sloppy.
This is anything but presidential, but maybe it s Predisential.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images