We all know what an absolute shitstorm is happening with regards to LGBT rights in North Carolina right now.
Everyone is focusing on the idiot Gov.
Pat McCrory and his bullshit lawsuit against the Department of Justice over his anti-LGBT hate bill, HB2.
However, there is another side to what brought this on, and Full Frontal host Samantha Bee is pointing it out.
You see, when an election has high voter turnout, Democrats win.
When it s a low turnout, we get imbeciles like Pat McCrory elected.
Bee began her tirade: Boycotts are a powerful tool but you know what is a more powerful tool?
Not electing a bunch of transphobic numbnuts who are going to wreck the state economy to catch a nonexistent criminal.
Bee is right, of course.
Thanks to the homophobic and transphobic HB2, bunches of businesses and musicians have pulled out of North Carolina.
Bee insists that what we are seeing right now is a direct result of Democrats not voting in the 2010 election.
She continues, referencing times prior to that fateful election night: It was a blue-state dream.
Democrats controlled the Governor s mansion and legislature, welfare checks grew on trees and there was an abortion in every pot.
But all that changed on Election Night 2010.
Bee then went on to show tape of references to the newly-GOP controlled North Carolina legislature slashing education funding and said, You know North Carolina s world-class public university?
F*ck that place.
Bee then goes on to remind everyone that it could be progressive college students who would vote these morons out, but there s just one problem with that: right-wingers have used their time in office to suppress the votes of college students by making laws that take polling places off campuses and deny students the right to use their student identification cards to vote: I bet UNC students can t wait to vote those right-wing boobs out of office.
Well, sorry, those boobs are actually way ahead of you on that.
The host then points out the fact that the GOP now controlled more states than they have since 1928, and as a result, their insane laws have swept the nation in more than just North Carolina.
She goes on to say: After the 2010 landslide, policies started happening to states the way sex happens to people who drink with Bill Cosby.
No wonder Democrats are so hung up on appointing the next Supreme Court Justice.
They need him to strike down all the sh*tty state laws that might not have passed if they d bothered to vote in 2010.
Bee s closer is absolutely brilliant, and oh so true: Look, I know state elections aren t fun.
They don t have cool concerts or dank memes.
But, voting in them is important.
Just think of it like a mammogram.
It s painful and inconvenient, but you gotta do it.
Because early prevention prevents a lot less than late stage treatment.
Samantha Bee is spot-on with this one.
Liberals didn t vote in midterm elections, and therefore the GOP has been able to go on a nationwide right-wing tear the likes of which we have not seen for many decades.
Listen to this wise woman, people.
When Democrats don t vote, this dangerous, regressive nonsense is what we all must suffer through.
Remember vote blue, no matter who.Watch the video below, and please heed the advice:Featured image via video screen capture