Donald Trump probably did not enjoy watching Fox News this time around.Because when Neil Cavuto went on the air on Tuesday he addressed Trump s angry rant against the media and will likely be labeled fake news in retaliation for the way he did it.Earlier in the day, Trump attacked the media instead of honoring the 29,000 American soldiers who died on D-Day 73 years ago.The FAKE MSM is working so hard trying to get me not to use Social Media.
They hate that I can get the honest and unfiltered message out.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2017Sorry folks, but if I would have relied on the Fake News of CNN, NBC, ABC, CBS, washpost or nytimes, I would have had ZERO chance winning WH Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 6, 2017Of course, Fox News was not included on that list.But Cavuto decided to sort of speak out against Trump s rant anyway, and he not only informed Trump that he is the problem, he accused Trump of scapegoating.
Mr. President, it s not the fake news media that s your problem, Cavuto said.
It s you.
It s not just your tweeting, it s your scapegoating.
It s your refusal to see that sometimes you re the one who s feeding your own beast and acting beastly with your own guys.
Cavuto pointed out that Trump focuses too much on settling endless scores and that the people around him want him to stop shooting himself in the foot all the time.By lashing out on social media and going on these ridiculous rants, Trump is only embarrassing himself.
If Trump really wants the media to stop reporting on his tweets, he should stop tweeting stupid things like attacks on the media and insulting London s mayor in the wake of a terrorist attack.
Look at the critiques you re now hearing from usually friendly and supportive allies as sort of like an intervention, Cavuto concluded.
Because firing off these angry missives and tweets risks your political destruction.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump just got called out by Fox News.
Will he listen or will he put them on his enemies list, too?Featured Image: Screenshot