Things got heated on The View on Friday between Whoopi Goldberg and Jedediah Bila on the subject of Planned Parenthood, and Bila got SCHOOLED.The ladies began talking about how House Republicans plan to include defunding Planned Parenthood in their Obamacare repeal bill, which really upset Goldberg.Goldberg went on the offensive by reminding the audience that not one dollar of federal funding pays for abortion services.
But by defunding the organization, Republicans would be stripping millions of low income women of vital healthcare services such as breast cancer exams, PAP smears, and contraceptives that would prevent unwanted pregnancies in the first place.
Do people still not have their facts straight about who s going to actually be affected by Planned Parenthood s removal?
Goldberg began.
There is no line item in the federal budget that goes to Planned Parenthood.
No tax dollars.
Can we just say that again?
Because the myth of federal tax dollars for abortions has been discredited, we ve said it a million times, all those videos you keep seeing have been discredited.
The videos Goldberg is talking about, which she later correctly labeled as bullshit, are the deceptively edited videos illegally recorded by anti-abortion fanatics to try and portray Planned Parenthood as a profiteer off abortions.
In reality, Planned Parenthood does not profit off of fetal tissue.
The organization merely gets reimbursed the cost of shipping from medical and scientific organizations and facilities who need the tissue for research.
The only people who are going to eat it when Planned Parenthood goes away are women who need the services, Goldberg continued.Bila jumped to defend conservatives by whining about how religious people don t want their tax dollars going to an organization they don t agree with.
And then she had the gall to claim that conservatives don t have a problem with women choosing to have an abortion, which we all know is bullshit considering all the anti-abortion laws conservatives have been pushing for over the years.Apparently it s not, because If it was my right, you wouldn t give a crap whether I was having an abortion, Goldberg fired back.
Whether you subscribe to people having abortions or not should have nothing to do with what I do or what I need.
If I m a low-income person and I ve been raped you don t have the right to tell me if I should have an abortion.
And then Goldberg dropped the hammer on Bila by telling her that if conservatives don t want their tax dollars going to Planned Parenthood, then she doesn t want her tax dollars going to paying for Trump s wall.
Look, I don t want to pay for this new wall that suddenly we are now paying for.
My religious background says that I m supposed to make sure that people are serviced, that s what my religion says.
I m not there to judge.
God judges.
I m paying for stuff I don t want to pay for, she added.
I don t want to pay for a wall My thing about America is that people have to pay their fair share for things they don t like and things they do like.
You may not like abortion don t have one.
Here s the video via YouTube.And Goldberg is absolutely right.
After all, taxpayers were forced by Republicans to pay for abstinence-only sex education programs that don t work, not to mention costly wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and let s go ahead and include the salaries of every Republicans who sat on their ass and did nothing but obstruct over the last eight years instead of helping President Obama rebuild America.
I m sure many taxpayers object to their money being used for that as well.The fact is, however, that Planned Parenthood provides healthcare services to millions of low-income women across the country and only 3 percent of those services has to do with abortion.
And if Republicans really care about women, they ll stop trying to take their healthcare provider away from them.Featured image via screenshot