Donald Trump has been poking China with a proverbial stick and his provocations haven t gone unnoticed.
Now, Chinese state media is calling Trump and his disastrous excuse for foreign policy out.Trump did his best to kick off a diplomatic crisis with China when he accepted a congratulatory call from Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen.
China views Taiwan as a rogue province and the U.S. agreed not to recognize their government as part of the One China policy.
Naturally, Trump has no f*cks to give.Global Times, a state-run Chinese newspaper, published a scathing editorial on Monday slamming Trump for his remarks regarding the One China policy.
They speculated that Trump may use the policy to force China to make a compromise on trade.
The One China policy is not for selling.
Trump thinks that everything can be valued and, as long as his leverage is strong enough, he can sell or buy.
If a price can be put on the US Constitution, will the American people sell their country s constitution and implement the political systems of Saudi Arabia or Singapore?Trump needs to learn to handle foreign affairs modestly, especially the China-U.S. relationship.
More importantly, a hard struggle against Trump is needed to let him know that China and other world powers cannot be easily taken advantage of.
The piece then lays out the following threat, most likely in reference to North Korea: If Trump gave up the One China policy, publicly supported Taiwan independence and wantonly sold weapons to Taiwan, China would have no grounds to partner with Washington on international affairs and contain forces hostile to the U.S.
In response to Trump s provocations, Beijing could offer support, even military assistance to U.S. foes.
The One China policy has maintained peace and prosperity in Taiwan, notes the article, before adding that the U.S. has no control over the Straits, and Trump is na ve to think he can use the One China policy as a bargaining chip to win economic benefits from China.
The editorial then offers Trump an out, because they do realize that he is a babbling idiot, saying, It s very likely that Trump may not have put too much thought into it.
He is no geopolitical maniac, but just has little experience in diplomacy.
He doesn t understand how dangerous it can be when he involves the U.S. in such an explosive game.
After all, this requires some personal experience.
But the piece then ends with a warning to the world: China needs to be fully armed and prepared to take a Sino-U.S. rollercoaster relationship together with Trump.
And many others in the world will probably also need to fasten their seatbelts.
China has filed an official complaint with the U.S. government regarding Trump s chat fest with the Taiwanese leader.
They also sent a message on Monday by flying a bomber capable of firing long-range nuclear weaponry over contested territories located in the South China Sea.
Trump is playing a dangerous game.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images