Concerns about Trump s conflict of interest reached a new level with the announcement that the National Park Service is finalizing plans that will give one of his companies $32 million in tax subsidies for the hotel he put in D.C. s Old Post Office building.
While it s true that he spent the morning tweeting about getting out of his business entirely, he will very likely get this break, which puts those millions in his pockets, before he actually divests (if he actually divests).Trump, Ivanka, and his two sons together own Trump Old Post Office, LLC., and the tax break comes from the Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credits program, which provides breaks to companies and investors that rehab historic properties.Ordinarily, this would be something we might mutter and mumble over, because really, does Trump need a tax credit of any kind?
We might have muttered and mumbled a little louder if this had happened before he was elected, too.
But now, with him actually being the president-elect, and the Park Service technically working for him even if not officially, there s a major problem.They just gave their new employer a break on his taxes.Trump s lease on the Old Post Office strictly prohibits any elected official of the Government of the United States, from participating.
The General Services Administration would be wise to break their contract if Trump doesn t disappear from that hotel post-haste.A professor of government procurement at the George Washington University School of Law agrees that this is a massive conflict of interest: This is a classic or textbook example of a conflict of interest.
The decision-maker here, the National Park Service, works for the party that stands to benefit from a favorable decision.
Trump s announcement that he s going to divest himself of his business interests entirely does little to change this, because he s still insisting that his kids will run his empire for him.
Generally, placing assets in a blind trust means turning them over to someone who has no direct involvement with you, let alone the relationship of parent and child.Divesting means getting out of them completely.Trump doesn t seem to have any intention of doing either, given that his children are top members of his transition team.
He does plan to hold a news conference in two weeks where he ll supposedly give details of his divestiture.
That will also give them time to actually figure out how to extricate him from all his businesses.That doesn t stop the fact that he s set to get a massive tax break very soon, possibly before he s fully divested (if that s even his plan).
$32 million is not pocket change to the average American taxpayer, and it doesn t look good going into the president s own pocket.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images