@Midnight host Chris Hardwick found it very amusing to listen to Melania Trump complain about how damaging social media is to children when her own husband says incredibly offensive and outrageous things on Twitter every day.
Yesterday, Anderson Cooper interviewed former divorcee Melania Trump and asked her what she d try to accomplish if she becomes First Lady, Hardwick began his show on Tuesday night before playing a clip of Melania talking about how she wants to change social media.
The social media, it s very damaging for the children, she claimed.
We need to guide them and teach them about social media because I see a lot of negativity on it.
Yeah, that s right.
Melania Trump actually wants to focus her time as First Lady cleaning up the negativity on social media.
But does that include her own husband s Twitter account?Because as Hardwick proceeded to point out, Donald Trump has been posting remarks that go far beyond negative ever since he joined the platform in 2009.
I wonder why she thinks there s a lot of negativity on social media, Hardwick said before scrolling through images of Trump s Twitter posts.
I don t know, maybe it s because one of the only people she follows does stuff like call other people unattractive both inside and out, or a low class slob, or a dopey clown, or a total asshole, or a p*ssy, or they look like shit, or disgusting with nipples protruding.'
Hardwick then delivered the perfect advice to Melania if she really wants to make social media less negative.
Why would Melania wait until she s First Lady to reduce negativity on social media when she could just as easily replace her husband s phone with an exploding Samsung Galaxy Note 7.
Hardwick then turned to the comedians on the panel and asked them what other goals Melania has, which included designing grab-proof women s underwear and whatever goals Michelle Obama has.
Here s the video via Comedy Central.Just like her husband, Melani Trump should really stop talking.
Because every time they open their mouths, comedians get new material to mercilessly mock them with.Featured Image: Screenshot