George Clooney is tired of Donald Trump s obsession with attacking people who criticize him.During the Golden Globe Awards on Sunday night, legendary actress Meryl Streep delivered an epic speech aimed at Trump with ever once saying his name.Streep defended Hollywood, the free press, and foreigners in a passionate speech while accepting a Lifetime Achievement Award and went on to express her heartbreak that a man who viciously mocked a disabled reporter during the campaign is the president-elect.
There was nothing good about it, Streep said.
But it was effective, and it did its job.
It made its intended audience laugh and show their teeth.
It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter- someone he outranked in privilege, power, and the capacity to fight back.
It kind of broke my heart.
When the powerful use their position to bully others, we all lose.
Predictably, Trump lost his shit and attacked Streep on Twitter, proving once again that he is too thin-skinned and unfit for the presidency.Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn t know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never mocked a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017 groveling when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017The backlash against Trump has been intense ever since because he is literally wasting time attacking any celebrity or citizen who criticizes him instead of using his time to prepare for the toughest job in the world.And even George Clooney is wondering why Trump isn t focusing on the job he s about to take over on January 20th.
Aren t you supposed to be running the country?
Clooney asked Trump during an event to promote a documentary about volunteers in Syria.
I didn t vote for him, I don t support him, I don t think he s the right choice.
Clooney then expressed his hope that Trump doesn t destroy everything over the next four years, but added that he doubts Trump will probably do exactly that.
At this moment in our lives we have to hope that he doesn t destroy everything.
The reality is you have to hope he will do a decent job because if the United States fails, really terrible things happen, so you have to hope that he can.
I don t see any signs of it.
If Trump was thinking about inviting Clooney to his inauguration, he better again.Featured Image: Kevin Winter/Getty Images