CNN host Poppy Harlow absolutely humiliated a Republican supporter of Donald Trump for lying about the Muslim ban that Trump ordered on Friday.The immigration ban is currently causing chaos in the United States and around the world, and has been condemned by leaders across the globe, but Trump and his supporters insist that the executive order is working and keeping Americans safe from terrorism.During an appearance on CNN to defend the ban, former GOP Rep. Jack Kingston repeatedly made claims that Harlow fact-checked on the air, and it didn t go well for the congressman.
What data can you point to that justifies that these seven nations have a tie to U.S. terror attacks or a higher incidence of bringing terror to this country?
Harlow asked.Kingston, of course, blamed the nations, including Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Yemen, Sudan, and Somalia, for forcing Trump s hand because they supposedly don t love America, which is somehow part of the criteria now for who we have dealings with.
I think maybe the idea that I would say, the evidence is that the countries themselves don t really have a standard that would preclude enemies of the United States from emigrating here.
These are not countries that are known to love the United States of America.
But that doesn t explain why countries like Russia, which launched cyberattacks against the United States during the 2016 election, is not on the list.
And Harlow made sure she asked.
So you say these are not countries that love the United States and therefore this is justified.
So, what about Russia?
Kingston tried to spin that by claiming that Sudan is a bigger threat to America than Russia.
Well, I think in Russia you know, there s a lot of other Islamic countries and other countries that aren t always fond of America, but I don t think you have necessarily the concerns and the vigilance that you need if you re talking about Sudan.
After Harlow explained that emigrating into this country is a difficult and complicated process, she dropped the hammer on Kingston with a single question.
Congressman, can you point to a single terrorist attack in this country that was carried out by a Syrian refugee?
I think you could look at DHS records and see that refugees in general have often been the cloak under which terrorists do move from country to country, Kingston replied.
And we do not know who s coming in to our country.
Harlow countered Kingston s bullshit by asking the question again.
But Congressman, I asked if you could point to an event that you feel justifies this ban, that has endangered or killed American people.
This time, Kingston replied by naming places where mass shootings have taken place, including Ft.
Hood, Orlando, and San Bernardino, as well as terrorist attacks in Europe and other parts of the world.Harlow called out Kingston for making unfactual claims, and proceeded to inform Kingston that all the shooters who committed massacres in those American cities were all American citizens who were born here.
And none of them, including those who committed terrorist attacks in Europe, were Syrian refugees.Here s the video via YouTube.In fact, no citizens from any of the countries listed in Trump s ban have ever murdered an American on our own soil.
However, there are nations Trump left off the list that are at least partly responsible for the murders of thousands of Americans, including Saudi Arabia, which helped fund the 9/11 attacks and was the nation from which most of the attackers came.
@TomKingTK pic.twitter.com/eT65nfOb5s Rafael Esteban (@RafaelEsteban__) January 28, 2017The bottom line is that Trump and his supporters are lying about the Muslim ban, and as long as the media does what Poppy Harlow did, they ll nail them for it in real time instead of letting them get away with lying on the air only to call them out later.
Because at this time, catching them later is too late.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video