During an interview on CNN s State of the Union on Sunday, Donald Trump was questioned by host, Jake Tapper, on his religious beliefs and support among the socially conservative, right-wing Christians.Things have been getting heated between Republican primary frontrunner Donald Trump, and the runner-up Ted Cruz, to say the least.
Cruz has been surging in the polls as Trump maintains his lead.
While Trump s lead appears to be unshakable, his support is also static.
So the two have been at each other s throats trying to win over voters.
In order to win over those voters, they have to convince people that they are the true spokesman for god and the Christian religion.In that arena, Cruz has a major advantage over Trump.
During the Family Leadership Summit, last July, Trump made the mistake of saying something somewhat reasonable to a crowd of hardcore social conservatives.
He was asked if he had asked God for forgiveness.
Trump responded, saying: I m not sure I have.
I just go on and try to do a better job from there.
I don t think so.
I think if I do something wrong, I think, I just try and make it right.
I don t bring God into that picture.
I don t. He tried to explain away the gaffe, but it was too late.
For those not in the know, asking god, and or Jesus, for forgiveness for their sins is the first and most important thing you can do as a Christian.
For many, Trump might as well have said that he is not actually a Christian.This was brought up early in the interview.
Trump was asked the question again, to which he replied that he has a good relationship with God.
Tapper then goes on to question Trump about his behavior that has been seen in tabloids for the past two decades.
Trump says that, he has been living a good life now for the past few years, so that shouldn t matter.Let s compare that to Cruz, who has a strap-on set of God s armor.
Whether is trying to take away the rights of LGBT people, or claiming that atheists should not be able to hold public office, Cruz embodies all the terrible qualities that are revered by right-wing Christians.Based on the sentiments expressed in the interview, I don t think Trump has any idea how these people work.
Trump can stir up and exploit hatred towards minorities without it coming back to hurt him, but pandering and exploiting the Christian right takes both skill and experience.
Two things Trump has neither of.If the Republican primary race was a 90 s boy band, Trump would be the bad boy of the group.
Many conservatives might be attracted to him, but Cruz is the one they are going to invite over for Sunday dinner.
They might even let him say grace.You can watch the interview, below.Featured Image Credit: Screenshot via YouTube