Less than 24 hours after Trump claimed he would be exclusively blaming Democrats for not endorsing his bill to uninsure 24 million people, he was lashing out at Republicans instead.
He just couldn t help himself.The meltdown began last night as Trump used his Twitter account to promote Fox News Jeanine Pirro s Saturday night show.
When people tuned in, they saw Pirro go on a vicious assault against Paul Ryan, demanding he step down as Speaker of the House.
Trump, apparently too much of a coward to say it himself, wants you to know how much he hates Paul Ryan.The next morning, his temper had only gotten worse.
Not leaving it to Paul Ryan, Trump lashed out at conservative Republicans for not properly supporting the bill.Democrats are smiling in D.C. that the Freedom Caucus, with the help of Club For Growth and Heritage, have saved Planned Parenthood & Ocare!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 26, 2017The tweet was particularly awkward because it was disturbingly true Yes, Democrats are smiling following the disastrous Trumpcare misfire.
Things like Planned Parenthood and Obamacare provide life-saving resources to tens of millions of people.
Preserving those things is something worth smiling about.
The fact that Trump and Paul Ryan humiliated themselves in the process only makes those smiles a little broader.MSNBC s Lawrence O Donnell observed:I'm smiling at you attacking the people you need on your next vote.
Please keep doing this.
Please!
https://t.co/5deg1puxyU Lawrence O'Donnell (@Lawrence) March 26, 2017Trump s latest meltdown directed exclusively at Republicans signals the sheer chaos that s rippling through the GOP following their healthcare fail.
The implosion was so spectacular that nobody seems to be able to agree on a coherent message.
Trump, for his part, has oscillated between I m not mad!
and spittle-laden fury.
He may have even found a scapegoat Reince Priebus.Source close to @POTUS says he's being advised to replace @Reince45 & is open to possibility healthcare was last straw Tara Palmeri (@tarapalmeri) March 25, 2017But if anyone is squarely to blame for the GOP s failure to repeal and replace Obamacare it s Trump himself, who spent a truly embarrassing lack of time on trying to accomplish it.
Here s a typical write-up of Trump s involvement in the legislative process:Despite the proclamations of Paul Ryan, Sean Spicer, and others to spin Trump s participation in the AHCA push as some impressive feat of presidential prowess, several reports indicate that Trump was mostly disengaged from the process, divided over its merits, and only involved himself at the last minute, largely out of ego.The perception among lawmakers and White House insiders was that Trump was never personally invested in the bill, repeatedly asking aides if they thought it was good or not, typically prompted by the consistently negative media coverage of the bill that Trump was watching, according to the Washington Post.Many people, some even close to the president, admitted that they didn t believe Trump actually knew what was in the bill.The fact that he s now using his own shoddy leadership as a pretext to go to war with his own political party is music to any liberal s ears.
This is a man whose ego is so large that he would rather burn every bridge he has than accept the fact that he botched the rollout of a complicated bill through incompetence and indifference.
Instead he s incoherently lashing out at anyone he can think of: Democrats, Paul Ryan, Reince Priebus, the entire Republican Party.What a piece of work.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images