The flags at Citi Field were also at half-mast in honor of Brian Moore.
#Respect #NYPD pride.
#Mets pic.twitter.com/GeFiknRwYx New York Mets (@Mets) May 5, 2015The Mets honored slain New York City Police Officer Brian Moore before Tuesday s game against Baltimore, a game the Orioles fan had tickets to attend.#NYPD officers joined the team for a moment of silence before tonight's game to honor #OfficerMoore.
#Mets pic.twitter.com/nmOvBZJMpX New York Mets (@Mets) May 5, 2015Moore s cousins, who did not wish to be identified, sat in seats several rows behind the Orioles dugout Tuesday night.
They sat quietly, saying they came to honor their cousin, who was tragically shot in the face on Saturday and died on Monday.Before the game, Moore s picture, bordered by a badge with a black ribbon, lingered on the video screens inside Citi Field and outside the park, too.There was a moment of silence and an NYPD color guard.Moore had bought three tickets for this game.
He and his dad and his girlfriend were supposed to go.But instead, Moore was remembered in a somber ceremony the second such salute the Mets have had for fallen officers this season.On Opening Day at Citi Field, officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu who were killed in December were remembered.Flags at Citi Field fly at half-mast in honor of Brian Moore.Flags at Citi Field fly at half-mast in honor of Brian Moore.
The Mets players wore NYPD hats during batting practice to honor Moore, 25.
Someplace along the line, hopefully we don t have to keep wearing these hats, Terry Collins said.
We are honoring the true heroes, the soldiers, the police, the fire department that keep us all safe and secure.
What they have to face each and every day is beyond any of our imaginations.Ruben Tejada and @Dilson_H proud to wear the #NYPD caps during BP.
#Mets pic.twitter.com/Tgfw6vlzSw New York Mets (@Mets) May 5, 2015 It s sad to think we ve got to wear them, continued Collins, who took part in a dinner with the families of Ramos and Liu this spring.
It s part of what we think is important and certainly honoring Officer Moore is important today, and so we ll wear them and wear them with pride and hopefully his family understands that although it s hard to understand what they re going through, we re there for them.
"Honoring Officer Moore is important today.
We will wear these hats with pride."
Collins.
#NYPD pic.twitter.com/n6SU4teYjD New York Mets (@Mets) May 5, 2015Orioles slugger Chris Davis, Moore s favorite player, signed a ball for the family.
Also, the Orioles are having one of their home jerseys shipped here so the whole team can sign it to give to the family, according to a team spokesman.
It s unfortunate we are wearing it for the events that happened, said Michael Cuddyer, who signed with the Mets this winter.
But I think it is a good gesture by the team, shows we care and are thinking of them.
Via: NY Daily News