You know how we often jest, largely because it s true, that conservatives are racist?
Well, maybe we ve misjudged them.
The Republican mayor of Midland City, Alabama had a classy response when someone asked her how the election went.
Breaking what seems to be an unending series of Trump supporters and other racists/Republicans saying horrible things about black people, Patsy Capshaw Skipper congratulated her opponent, Jo Ann Bennett Grimsley, on a hard-fought race and wished her well.
Just kidding she called her a n*gger, because Skipper is a Republican and what do you really expect from them these days?Skipper, with 148 votes, was soundly defeated by Grimsley s 233, with a third candidate managing 59.
I hope she does a great job for the city and I am very happy for her, the current Mayor said publicly when asked how she feels about Grimsley being her new Mayor.
But outside the spotlight, seemingly protected by her Facebook privacy settings, she had a slightly different opinion.A man named Don Thompson, apparently posting on his wife s account, asked how the election is going, leading Skipper to go from zero to racist in less than a second:The only response this received was I m so sorry.
It s appalling, Arlissa Minniefield, who serves as town clerk and magistrate for the Town of Newton, said Thursday.
It was she who shared the post.
As a former employee there, to know that you worked under people that had those kinds of feelings is very disheartening.
She has previously served as magistrate for Midland City.But never fear Skipper claimed that her Facebook has been messed up for several weeks and adds I think I ve been hacked.
Facebook, of course, offers robust (and, at time, irritating) security features that force a person to enter a code that is sent to a user s cell phone if they attempt to log in from an unfamiliar device.
Before this feature was implemented, the hacked excuse was viable, but not today, Skippy, not today.She says that she had just undergone heart surgery and had not even been out to campaign for re-election.
Interestingly, she was able to remove the post from her hacked account unless, of course, our mystery hacker felt bad about what he or she did and un-did the damage.
You know, since hackers are typically known as being magnanimous.This is one epic f*ckup that can not be blamed on voters.
When her husband, Virgil, retired in February due to health reasons, Midland City council voted 3-1 to appoint Skipper to fill his shoes.
It is unclear if she also fills his Klan robe and hood, or if she picked those up herself.Featured image via screengrab