When asked by the other hosts on the show, Where would you go?
Whoopie pauses, then realizes there really is no better country on the earth, as she sheepishly replies, I don t know, I ve always been in America.
There s usually a good reason that people don t give up their citizenship Whoopie.
There s probably a reason so many people are willing to break the law and illegally enter our country.
Despite the drivel you and your cohorts push on The View, every American doesn t believe they re somehow a victim, and most Americans agree with Trump that we shouldn t be willing to give up all that makes America great just because the Left wants to shore up their voting block.
If you wanna know what is really getting under Whoopie s skin, it s the idea that no one in the media can control Trump.
That s what s really got the girls on The View freaking out Wednesday on ABC s The View, co-host Whoopi Goldberg said Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump needs to stop blaming others for the problems in America and threatened to move out of the country.https://youtu.be/NwE2ZvcpKUsGoldberg said, People don t like being the butt of the jokes and now that people say, listen, you can t make me the butt of your jokes, I don t like it.
You can t use me as some sort of stereotype.
I don t like it.
That s the PC people are talking about.
And the bottom line is this find a different way to say what you re going to say.
People are not going to take it anymore.
So if that s what s pisses you off, you re going to stay angry.
Co-host Joy Behar said, A lot of it has to do with their pocketbook.
They re not making as much money as they used to make, that particular group of people.
Maybe jobs are overseas, maybe technology has taken over, they don t have the background for it.
They re ticked off.
Goldberg interjected, But then you can t blame immigrants for that.
Behar continued, That s scapegoating.
It s as old as the hills.
What do you think World War II is all about?
You know that.
It s all about blaming the Jews.
Now it s the Mexicans and the Muslims.
Blame everybody but yourself.
Later in the segment, Goldberg continued her rant.
Listen, he can be whatever party he wants to be, she said.
What he can t be is he can t be the guy that says it s your fault stuff isn t working.
That s not the president I want.
Find a way to make stuff work.
Stop blaming everybody because all of this, as American citizens, this is our we did all of this.
We ve allowed all this stuff, so we have to fix it.
But you can t say, Oh, you re Lebanese or you re black or you re Mexican or you re a woman.
Stop blaming everybody.
Let s fix the crap.
Let s just fix it.
If you can fix it, I will listen to what you have to say.
The minute you start pointing and saying that person is a rapist and a murderer, it pisses me off because I ve been part of that when they just use a blanket statement to talk about black people or when they use a blanket statement to talk about white people or women or any other group.
I don t think that s America.
I don t want it to be America.
Maybe it s time for me to move, you know.
I can afford to go, she added.
I ve always been an American, and this has always been my country and we ve always been able to have discussions.
And suddenly now it s turning into, you know, not them, not them.
And you know, we have a lot of friends whose parents saw this already.
They don t want to relive this So I need all the candidates to get it together.
Get back to American values.
Behar said, I must be naive maybe but I do believe that at the end of the day the American people will not vote for that type of xenophobia.
The fact that they voted twice for President Obama, twice for President Clinton, people like that.
I really do believe they will come to their senses.
You know what, he can t win without 40 percent of the Hispanic vote and he has alienated the Hispanics.
Via: Breitbart News