Hey Barry you forgot to mention that time you parted the seas oh wait, that wasn t you.
Why not tell Britain the truth?
Tell them how you created the most hostile atmosphere towards law enforcement that this nation has ever seen.
How your real legacy will be that of the worst racial division since the civil rights era.
You also neglected to mention that you destroyed our relationship with Israel (our only true ally in the Middle East), while making friends with communist regimes and cutting lopsided deals with radical Islamic nations who openly advertise their hate for America for all the world to see.
Don t kid yourself Barry.
Your legacy will be that of the worst President to ever occupy the White House.
President Barack Obama boasted of his legacy during a town hall in Britain, asserting that he single- handedly saved the world during his presidency.
Saving the world economy from a Great Depression that was pretty good, Obama bragged when asked by a student in London what he wanted his legacy to be.He recalled that when he visited London in 2009, the world economy was in a freefall because of irresponsible behavior of financial institutions around the world.
For us to be able to mobilize the world s community, to take rapid action, to stabilize the financial markets, and then in the United States to pass Wall Streets reforms that make it much less likely that a crisis like that can happen again, I m proud of that, he said.Here s your real legacy Barry...Obama also touted his Iran nuclear deal as something I m very proud of asserting that he successfully stopped their nuclear weapons program without going to war.He griped that everybody forgot about his efforts in stopping the Ebola crisis, saving hundreds of thousands of lives.
I think that I have been true to myself during this process, Obama said, insisting that the things he said while running for office matched up with his presidency.
I ll look at a scorecard in the end, he concluded.
Change takes time.
Oftentimes what you start has then to be picked up by your successors or the next generation.
He added that the fight for change was like a relay race and that he was prepared to pass the baton to his successor.Enter Hillary Hopefully they re running in the right direction, he joked.Via: Breitbart News