Ted Cruz is just one night away from losing the nomination to Donald Trump and the pressure is clearly getting to him.
At a truly unhinged last minute rally in La Porte, Indiana, Cruz, joined by his faithful supporter Glenn Beck, spoke to a half empty gymnasium and things went off the rails almost instantly.While telling the crowd that God had chosen himself and Carly Fiorina to be the next president and vice president, divine intervention or faulty wiring caused Cruz s mic to die mid-sentence, leaving the Republican candidate to shout for a new one then stand around silently while one was brought to him.
Later, his attempt to pander to the Indiana crowd with quotations from the movie Hoosiers drew eye rolls and groans.At another point, a preteen boy interrupted the rally by shouting You suck!
at Cruz.
He was ordered out of the event and as he was leaving, Cruz told the crowd that he deserved a spanking.A preteen yelling "you suck" is hauled out of Cruz event.
"In my household, when a child behaved that way, they got a spanking," says Cruz.
daveweigel (@daveweigel) May 2, 2016Young protester interrupts Ted Cruz in La Porte, Ind.
"In my household, when a child behaved that way, they'd get a spanking."
Phil Elliott (@Philip_Elliott) May 2, 2016Still angry, Cruz couldn t let it go.
He added that children should speak with respect.
The crowd went wild.Spanking is a big deal for Cruz.
He speaks on it frequently, often bragging about spanking his two daughters.
Lately, he s been adding a splash of sexism into the mix, primarily focused on Hillary Clinton a former Secretary of State and not Cruz s 5-year-old daughter.
We do know Hillary told her daughter Chelsea, Well, gosh, I knew it was a terrorist attack, while we were out telling the American people it wasn t,' Cruz said.
You know I ll tell you, in my house, if my daughter Catherine, the five-year-old, says something she knows to be false, she gets a spanking.
At another point, he said the American people should spank Clinton for Benghazi.
Spanking appears to be Cruz s main way of communicating.If what is happening in La Porte, Indiana, is any indication, Cruz is going to have a rough go of it when polling starts.
Having dumped all of his resources into winning Indiana, the last polls show that Trump still has a double digit lead over him.
Apparently, nobody is impressed by Cruz.Or as a preteen boy might say it: You suck!
Featured image via YouTube screengrab