Ted Cruz may have won Iowa but that doesn t make people hate him any less.The Texas Tea Party Senator is so universally despised that even moderate Republicans and Fox News can t stand him.Ever since being sworn in as a Senator, Cruz has shut down the government and attempted to shut it down on multiple other occasions.
He has single-handedly blocked legislation that even his fellow Republican colleagues support and has told lie after lie to the media and the American people in order to position himself as some kind of savior.Just this past Sunday, Cruz was called out by Fox News for telling lies about Obamacare.
That s how much Ted Cruz is hated.
Conservative media is actually starting to defend Obamacare against his lies.And that s why it isn t very hard to find someone who hates Ted Cruz.
It s especially not very hard to find a former Princeton classmate of Ted Cruz who also hates him.While searching for classmates to corroborate a rumor about Ted Cruz, Jezebel heard from several of them, many of which didn t fondly remember their fellow alum.According to Jezebel s Ellie Shechet,Many Princeton alums I interviewed, speaking under conditions of anonymity, had harsh words for their former classmate.
One such person, who studied with Cruz at Princeton s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and asked not to be named in this story, referred to him as a monster geek who was constantly dominating the conversation in order to get the attention of the professor.
She reported having such intense feelings of dislike towards Cruz during a public policy conference their junior year that I had a complete allergy towards the [law] profession when it was over.
I was stunned that he would be the one that ended up [running for] president out of our class, she added, because he s about as telegenic as an undertaker.
Leonard Nalencz, who didn t mind not being anonymous, shared that, Everyone in my class that I ve talked to is horrified that he s a candidate.
Ouch.
That has to sting.But you re not alone, Leonard.
Most people are genuinely horrified that Ted Cruz is a candidate.After all, we re talking about a man who denies science.
A guy who palled around with Sarah Palin for a time until she ditched him for Donald Trump.
A guy who urged House Republicans to let America default on the debt, a move that would have crashed the economy.
A guy whose supporters long more for him to crown himself king rather than be a president.Let s just hope Cruz only gets as far as being a candidate.
Because anything more would be a disaster for this country.Featured Image: Nation of Change