Donald Trump is finally dealing with the massive conflict of interest that has been drawing outrage for weeks now.In yet another early morning round of tweets on Wednesday, Trump conceded that his business is a conflict of interest and announced that he is fixing this problem by drawing up legal documents to remove himself in total from it to focus on the presidency.
I will be holding a major news conference in New York City with my children on December 15 to discuss the fact that I will be leaving my great business in total in order to fully focus on running the country in order to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Trump wrote.
While I am not mandated to do this under the law, I feel it is visually important, as President, to in no way have a conflict of interest with my various businesses Hence, legal documents are being crafted which take me completely out of business operations.
The Presidency is a far more important task!
I will be holding a major news conference in New York City with my children on December 15 to discuss the fact that I will be leaving my Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016great business in total in order to fully focus on running the country in order to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
While I am not mandated to .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016do this under the law, I feel it is visually important, as President, to in no way have a conflict of interest with my various businesses.. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016Hence, legal documents are being crafted which take me completely out of business operations.
The Presidency is a far more important task!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016In the last two weeks since Election Day, Trump has faced sharp criticism for having foreign business ties in Russia and other nations, continuing to meet with foreign business partners, and for having his daughter Ivanka, who is supposedly going to be in charge of the Trump business empire, in the room with him during meetings with foreign leaders.
This represents a massive conflict of interest because Trump could use the presidency to enrich himself and his business at the expense of American policy and national security.But just because Trump says he is doing something doesn t mean we should take his word for it.
Whatever legal documents he draws up should be scrutinized thoroughly not only for the sake of transparency but to make sure he hasn t hidden some tricky language that makes his stated intention meaningless.Make no mistake, Trump cannot be trusted, even if it seems like he is starting to do the right thing.Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images