Only one journalist has made it his mission to set the record straight about what really happened in Ferguson, MO on the day that Michael Brown was shot by Officer Darren Wilson.
Every American needs to know about this man who faux journalists fear.
Phelim McAleer is not a household name in America but he should be.
He s challenged Matt Damon, Susan Sarandon and Yoko Ono and Sean Lennon on the false narrative they were promoting about the dangers of fracking in America.Watch Phelim bravely confront Susan Sarandon, Yoko Ono and Sean Lennon here:Watch Phelim expose the truth about who was helping to fund Matt Damon s anti fracking movie:While America was fixated on Jodi Arias murder trial for the stabbing death of her boyfriend, Phelim McAleer was focused on another trial that was taking place simultaneously that involved the most prolific serial killer of our time, abortionist Dr. Kermit Gosnell.
The mainstream media intentionally ignored the story of Kermit Gosnell because the truth about the crimes he committed would surely harm the reputation of the coveted abortion industry.
Phelim, along with his wife Ann McElhinney and Magdalena Segieda raised over $2.2 million on Indiegogo that is being used to finance the production of a made for TV movie that will tell the true and horrific story of Kermit Gosnell.Phelim has bravely gone against the tide on so many issues the left has been either lying about or hiding for years.
Because the mainstream media fears him however, it s likely you ve never even heard his name.
Our goal is to change that.Phelim s latest project, Ferguson will be a live play that was written by journalist and documentary filmmaker Phelim McAleer and will be directed by Nick DeGruccio.
Ferguson will run from April 26-29 at Los Angeles s Odyssey Theater.
The reenactment of the controversial killing of Michael Brown on stage will allow Americans to actually view the facts based on the Grand Jury testimony.
McAleer told the Washington Times: It s going to be a dramatized stage reading.
Witnesses are going to describe what happened, just as they described it in the grand jury room.
We re going to have cast at least 13 people, playing 20 different characters.
The documents that accompany the testimony will be on a large screen.
The audience will act as the jury and their votes will decide whether or not Ferguson officer Darren Wilson should have been indicted.YOU CAN HELP PHELIM MCALEER TELL THE TRUTH about what happened in Ferguson by contributing to the production of his play Ferguson by clicking here.FERGUSON will be the first dramatization of the controversial shooting that prompted public outcry and riots, with protesters claiming that white police officer Wilson shot black teenager Brown as he was surrendering with his hands up.
Ferguson is certain to confound and frustrate the leftist mainstream media who believes they have already cemented the hands up don t shoot narrative in the minds of Americans, regardless of the facts.
I want to bring the truth about what happened that day to the stage, explains McAleer, a celebrated journalist and filmmaker.
I think audience members will be very surprised, even shocked, when they hear the clear and unaltered truth about the events that took place on Aug. 9, 2014.
There are a lot of myths and half-truths circulating about the shooting.
FERGUSON is a chance to dispel these once and for all.
Because the subject matter is so controversial, McAleer is launching the play as an independent production financed by crowdfunding.
I know people want the truth to be told, so now they can be part of that process by going to FergusonThePlay.com to help make that happen, he says.Helmed by multiple award-winning director Nick DeGruccio (The Laramie Project at both Laguna Playhouse and the Colony Theatre), FERGUSON will be staged as an evening of verbatim or truth theater, modeled on Tricycle Theatre s wildly popular Tribunal Plays series that has been a staple in London for over two decades.
Verbatim theater is defined as a play constructed from the precise words spoken by people interviewed about a particular event or topic.
In this case, the audience will hear unaltered witness testimony, exactly as the Ferguson grand jury heard it.Concludes McAleer, who covered numerous crime scenes and court cases while reporting on the troubles in Northern Ireland for The Irish News and UK SundayTimes, I ve always been fascinated with the truth and with reexamining facts once the controversy and grief have abated.
That is what I want to bring to the stage with FERGUSON.
McAleer is also a producer and director of documentaries, including FrackNation, about fracking ( meticulously researched provocative The New York Times; briskly paced [a] mischievous pic.
Variety); Not Evil Just Wrong, examining the devastating consequences of global warming hysteria; and Mine Your Own Business, exploring campaigns by foreign environmentalists against large scale mining projects in the developing world, which the UK Guardian described as A Michael Moore-style documentary [that] casts the green movement as the influential villain of a worldwide campaign to block development and deny people the chance of jobs and a decent life.
As a foreign correspondent with the Financial Times and The Economist, McAleer covered the post communist chaos in Eastern Europe, and he is a regular columnist for the New York Post.
He has appeared on BBC, CNN and Fox News, among others.The provocative nature of McAleer s projects make traditional financing difficult.
With FrackNation, McAleer bypassed traditional funding methods and instead turned to Kickstarter, a crowd-funding website.
It was one of the most successful documentary campaigns in Kickstarter history: in just 60 days, 3,305 backers donated $212,265.
His Indiegogo campaign for Gosnell was the site s most successful ever, with over 26,500 people contributing $2.25 million in 45 days.
FERGUSON is also being financed through crowdfunding.
For more information, or to make a contribution, go to FergusonThePlay.com.