Climate grifter Al Gore is confronted about global warming and sea levels in this classic video where he just can t explain himself.
One of the challenges is taking what the scientists say and believing Al GoreOUR LATEST ON AL GORE: NASA S NEW CLIMATE DATA Exposes Al Gore s Lies: The Timing of his New Movie Couldn t be More InconvenientAl Gore has become very wealthy from his invention of global warming and the creation of An Inconvenient Truth, a documentary which has been included in the science curricula of schools throughout the United States.
However, the more real climate data we see, the more obvious the hoax becomes.This data couldn t come at a worse time for Al Gore, as his sequel to An Inconvenient Truth, released on July 28, got panned by critics.A.V.
Club called An Inconvenient Truth Less a movie than a glorified PowerPoint presentation .A new study from NASA confirms sea levels are falling not rising.iceagenow.info reports: NASA satellite sea level observations for the past 24 years show that on average sea levels have been rising 3.4 millimeters per year.
That s 0.134 inches, about the thickness of a dime and a nickel stacked together, per year.
As I said, that s the average.
But when you focus in on 2016 and 2017, you get a different picture.Sea levels fell in 2016, and with all of this winter s record-breaking snowfall, I wouldn t be surprised if they decline again this year.I clicked and zoomed on the above chart as NASA suggested, and obtained a close-up screen shot of sea levels from Jan 2016 to March 2017.
This clearly shows the decline.Al Gore has falsely predicted that sea levels would rise by 20 feet, with some of the world s largest cities underwater.World Tribune reports: Although the UN s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) only predicts a sea level rise of 59cm (17 inches) by 2100, Al Gore in his Oscar-winning film An Inconvenient Truth went much further, talking of 20 feet, and showing computer graphics of cities such as Shanghai and San Francisco half under water, Booker noted.
We all know the graphic showing central London in similar plight.
As for tiny island nations such as the Maldives and Tuvalu, as Prince Charles likes to tell us and the Archbishop of Canterbury was again parroting last week, they are due to vanish.
All of the talk about the sea rising is nothing but a colossal scare story, Booker said, citing Swedish geologist and physicist Nils-Axel Morner, formerly chairman of the INQUA International Commission on Sea Level Change, who for 35 years has been using every known scientific method to study sea levels all over the globe.
Despite fluctuations down as well as up, the sea is not rising, Morner says.
It hasn t risen in 50 years.
If there is any rise this century it will not be more than 10cm (four inches), with an uncertainty of plus or minus 10cm .
And quite apart from examining the hard evidence, he says, the elementary laws of physics (latent heat needed to melt ice) tell us that the apocalypse conjured up by Al Gore and Co. could not possibly come about.
Gateway Pundit