Cliven Bundy and his unstable group of family and followers have been refreshingly quiet in recent months in the aftermath of their ill-conceived hijacking of an Oregon wildlife refuge and subsequent arrests.
It s hard to occupy anything behind bars except, perhaps, a 6 10 slab of concrete.
However, Cliven is already jonesing for yet another stand-off and as his mental state deteriorates, the risk of danger grows.Bundy, currently jailed for his instigation of the previous armed standoff in 2014, has hooked up with crazed anti-Obama right-wing lawyer Larry Klayman, who has filed lawsuits against people ranging from Obama to Iran s Supreme Leader to, as the Southern Poverty Law Center points out, his own mother.
The pair which a judge ruled couldn t legally work together, but appear to be doing so anyway have concocted a new lawsuit claiming Sen. Harry Reid and President Obama sent federal storm-troopers to attack what they referred to as a gathering of peaceful cowboys.
Peaceful.
Cowboys.Other parts of the lawsuit include accusations that Reid wants to sell the land to the Chinese and that the judge in the case should recuse herself because she s Latino.But even more troubling than the frivolous lawsuit is the fact that the Bundy family has made no secret about wanting to kickstart yet another showdown with federal agents.
The Bundy family is still illegally grazing their cattle on federal lands, and the Bureau of Land Management is getting pretty fed up with it.
Environmental groups are also urging the BLM to act, because Bundy s cattle often times half-starved and neglected are destroying the wildlife in what was meant to be protected land.Angie Bundy, wife of the currently locked up Ryan, said her husband and his family being locked up is a conspiracy to make it easier to seize their land.
In response, she said she and the family are prepared to face another standoff.
She even sees a silver lining in the men being locked up.
Putting women and children in danger, she reasoned, would encourage other patriots to join the cause.
Just like last time, they plan on using children as shields.
We re not afraid, Angie added.
If you have a bunch of women and children standing out there and protesting, it ll probably get more people out.
What started as an inane property dispute over one man s right to ignore the law and enrich himself at the expense of the American taxpayer has increasingly become a sad spiral into some of the most toxic right-wing conspiracy theories around.
The heavily armed patriots that flock to Bundy s side whenever he feels like pointing some guns at federal agents have detached themselves from reality.
They quite literally believe they are at war with the United States government, and that means the odds that they react violently has skyrocketed.
A third standoff almost guarantees tragedy and the Bundys are rushing headlong into it.Featured image via David Becker/Getty Images