As you may or may not know at this point, MSNBC is no longer the place for liberal politics anymore.
And if you watch daily, you may have noticed this slow shift over the past year or so.
Sure, there s still shows like Rachel Maddow and Chris Hayes All In, but all in all, if you re looking for real progressive TV, you re going to have to find it somewhere on the internet.
The network is making a strong effort to switch from opinion to hard news, and that s why you re seeing fewer and fewer opinion shows and more generic broadcasts, especially during the day.Unfortunately, it looks like Melissa Harris-Perry was being forced to silence her voice by the network as well, and as of Friday, Harris-Perry has decided that she will no longer do her weekend show.In a letter written by Harris-Perry, and put out by one of her original producers, Jamil Smith, she explains in great detail why she has made this decision.Here s the letter in full:Dearest Nerds,As you know by now, my name appears on the weekend schedule for MSNBC programming from South Carolina this Saturday and Sunday.
I appreciate that many of you responded to this development with relief and enthusiasm.
To know that you have missed working with me even a fraction of how much I ve missed working with all of you is deeply moving.
However, as of this morning, I do not have any intention of hosting this weekend.
Because this is a decision that affects all of you, I wanted to take a moment to explain my reasoning.Some unknown decision-maker, presumably Andy Lack or Phil Griffin, has added my name to this spreadsheet, but nothing has changed in the posture of the MSNBC leadership team toward me or toward our show.
Putting me on air seems to be a decision being made solely to save face because there is a growing chorus of questions from our viewers about my notable absence from MSNBC coverage.
Social media has noted the dramatic change in editorial tone and racial composition of MSNBC s on-air coverage.
In addition, Dylan Byers of CNN has made repeated inquiries with MSNBC s leadership and with me about the show and what appears to be its cancellation.
I have not responded to reporters or social media inquiries.
However, I am not willing to appear on air in order to quell concerns about the disappearance of our show and our voice.Here is the reality: our show was taken without comment or discussion or notice in the midst of an election season.
After four years of building an audience, developing a brand, and developing trust with our viewers, we were effectively and utterly silenced.
Now, MSNBC would like me to appear for four inconsequential hours to read news that they deem relevant without returning to our team any of the editorial control and authority that makes MHP Show distinctive.The purpose of this decision seems to be to provide cover for MSNBC, not to provide voice for MHP Show.
I will not be used as a tool for their purposes.
I am not a token, mammy, or little brown bobble head.
I am not owned by Lack, Griffin, or MSNBC.
I love our show.
I want it back.
I have wept more tears than I can count and I find this deeply painful, but I don t want back on air at any cost.
I am only willing to return when that return happens under certain terms.Undoubtedly, television nurtures the egos of those of us who find ourselves in front of bright lights and big cameras.
I am sure ego is informing my own pain in this moment, but there is a level of professional decency, respect, and communication that has been denied this show for years.
And the utter insulting absurdity of the past few weeks exceeds anything I can countenance.I have stayed in the same hotels where MSNBC has been broadcasting in Iowa, in New Hampshire, and in South Carolina, yet I have been shut out from coverage.
I have a PhD in political science and have taught American voting and elections at some of the nation s top universities for nearly two decades, yet I have been deemed less worthy to weigh in than relative novices and certified liars.
I have hosted a weekly program on this network for four years and contributed to election coverage on this network for nearly eight years, but no one on the third floor has even returned an email, called me, or initiated or responded to any communication of any kind from me for nearly a month.
It is profoundly hurtful to realize that I work for people who find my considerable expertise and editorial judgment valueless to the coverage they are creating.While MSNBC may believe that I am worthless, I know better.
I know who I am.
I know why MHP Show is unique and valuable.
I will not sell short myself or this show.
I am not hungry for empty airtime.
I care only about substantive, meaningful, and autonomous work.
When we can do that, I will return not a moment earlier.
I am deeply sorry for the ways that this decision makes life harder for all of you.
You mean more to me than you can imagine.Yours always,MelissaIt s really a shame that MSNBC is trying to silence the liberal voice.
A voice that is being drowned out endlessly as more and more news outlets are acquired by right-leaning companies and CEOs.
It s as though MSNBC gave up on itself, and instead of work on a formula that could really bring in more views, decided it was easier to just be generic.
Hopefully the network comes to their senses sooner rather than later, and hopefully we will hear Harris-Perry s very well-educated, and much-needed voice once again.
However, we must respect her decision.Featured image: RCP