Donald Trump may spend his time furiously tweeting that the Russia investigation the one over which he fired FBI Director James Comey after he requested additional resources is FAKE NEWS, while simultaneously complaining about leaks of classified information that is simultaneously FAKE NEWS and real information, but the rest of us see through his actions that not only is our alleged President hiding about a billion skeletons in his closet, but he has sold out our nation.
This is, at this point, something that can be considered a truth because even Fox News can t avoid commenting on The Donald and his administration s shady practices.
When I heard that exchange today between Jeff Mason, White House reporter, and Sean Spicer speaking from the podium in the briefing room for the President of the United States, it took my breath away, Wallace told fellow Fox host Shep Smith on Friday, adding:That was what in Watergate they called a non-denial denial.
He was asked specifically, is there a recording device in the Oval Office of the President of the United States?
He said, I have nothing for you on that.
He could have said no.
He could have said yes.
He said I have nothing for you on that.
That is a non-denial denial.
Look, it may just be that the President is trolling the press corps and saying work yourself into a frenzy about this and turns out it nothing.
But why would he do that?
Why would he want to decrease the credibility which is already in question of this White House and comments that are made from that podium?
It seems to me that you re playing a very dangerous game with the currency of the credibility of the President of the United States.
Every step he s taken this week has cut into the credibility of this White House, the trust of the people inside the White House, Wallace said, and clearly I think the trust that the American people pay to this President and to his White House staff.
I ve never seen anything like it and I find it very troubling and troubled.
I just don t understand the game that they re playing, he added.
Cause it isn t a game.
Watch Wallace tear Trump limb from stupid limb below:featured image via screengrab