Donald Trump s administration and White House is the leakiest in living memory.
This is because even his own staff knows that he is incompetent, intemperate, childish, narcissistic, and completely unfit for the office he holds.
Despite the fact that they all know this, the sycophants around him just keep on doing his bidding and they keep leaking.
These leaks seem to be worrying Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein or rather, likely Trump s open rage with regards to them has forced Rosenstein s hand.Instead of defending the integrity of Special Counsel Robert Mueller as Trump and his minions have spent the last few days attacking this decorated public servant, Rosenstein instead decided to issue a bizarre statement late Thursday night that shows that he, too, is now shilling for Trump.
The statement attacks the credibility of anonymous sources, saying:Americans should exercise caution before accepting as true any stories attributed to anonymous officials, particularly when they do not identify the country let alone the branch of agency of government with which the alleged sources supposedly are affiliated.
Americans should be skeptical about anonymous allegations.
The Department of Justice has a long established policy to neither confirm nor deny such allegations.Fired U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara pointed out that Rosenstein should be defending Special Counsel Mueller instead of shilling for Trump:Where is Rod Rosenstein's overdue statement responding to the President's repeated attacks on his appointment of Robert Mueller?
pic.twitter.com/y7dwtWTQ4G Preet Bharara (@PreetBharara) June 16, 2017This is beyond strange.
The Department of Justice is not supposed to be politicized, but still the people therein serve at the pleasure of the president.
More than likely, Trump ordered Rosenstein to do this, since so many damning stories about the Russia investigation are coming out on an almost hourly basis.
Trump is reportedly completely obsessed with the Russia story, and still hasn t let go of the idea of somehow getting rid of Special Counsel Robert Mueller.
In fact, the only reason Mueller is still there is because White House aides talked Trump off the ledge when he was about to order his firing.Conservative commentator Bill Kristol has an excellent theory as to what is going on with Rosenstein s behavior, and it s terrible for the nation:The Rosenstein statement suggests there must be a heck of a Trump story coming based on alleged information from anonymous foreign officials Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) June 16, 2017In the Age of Trump, the independence of the Department of Justice is definitely shot, and this proves it.
While it was clear that Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who was a part of Trump s campaign and one of his staunchest supporters was nothing but a Trump shill, we had all hoped that Sessions recusal from the Russia investigation and Rosenstein s taking over would give the whole situation a bit more credibility, but no.All I can say is thank goodness for Robert Mueller.
Hopefully, firing him would be a bridge too far even for Congressional Republicans.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images