Filmmaker and author Phelim McAleer knew he was going to ruffle some feathers when he decided to open his FERGUSON-the play in the leftist hotbed of New York City.
McAleer has never been one to shy away from controversy, especially when he knows the truth is on his side.
So last night, with very little mainstream media coverage, Phelim opened his controversial play in NYC, that challenges the false narrative being fed to the general public about what really happened in Ferguson, MO.
The Ferguson play will, no doubt, force viewers to question how much of what the media feeds them is real, and how much is propaganda that feeds their leftist agenda.
What is FERGUSON?FERGUSON is a staged reenactment of the controversial killing of Michael Brown using ONLY Grand Jury testimony.
No spin.
No media filter.
Just the truth.
Nine cast members of the staged reading in Los Angeles walked out before opening night because of their desire to rewrite the script.
But you can t rewrite the truth; you can t rewrite history.
See for yourself!LA Weekly called the staged reading of FERGUSON a riveting spectacle and an incendiary evening of theatre.
This is the World Premiere of a full production.FERGUSON is a Verbatim Play it only uses actual Grand Jury testimony from eyewitnesses who saw police officer Daren Wilson shoot, Michael Brown.
Most of these eyewitnesses are minorities and yet their accounts are totally at odds with the stories spun by the mainstream media and activists.As guests at the opening of the thought-provoking Ferguson-the play began to exit the theater, Phelim approached a random woman to get her reaction to the performance.
The woman he questioned seemed confused and angry by what she just witnessed.
She admits she was a Black Lives Matter supporter, and even protested with Black Lives Matter to help them to push the hands up, don t shoot narrative.
After realizing that she had been lied to by the media, she asks Phelim, Why did I demonstrate Hands in the air Don t shoot ?
The controversial play opened last night in New York City and is set to run through November 5th.Phelim McAleer is asking for help to fund his FERGUSON production.
Please consider making a contribution to this very worthy cause by clicking HERE to donate.