Facing corruption scandals, nepotism scandals, Russian interference in the election scandals, and a healthcare bill that appears to be so awful even Republicans won t touch it, Trump did what comes natural to him beg his supporters for love.In a poll that has already become the laughingstock of the internet, Trump sent email subscribers a single question meant to prove the American people stand behind our great movement : Do you stand with President Trump?The answers were hilariously loaded.
Poll takers could pick just one of two options:Apparently Trump didn t want people answering the wrong way in a non-scientific poll meant to boost his ego.
Leaving nothing to chance, he made the no answer an insane screed against Democrats and the media.Actual email sent out by Trump Headquarters pic.twitter.com/8c3qwbNoUb Molly Crabapple (@mollycrabapple) March 23, 2017Notably, there are already existing polls which are meant to gauge whether the American people support the president or not.
They are conducted by legitimate polling organizations.
The latest ones show that at this point in his term Trump is perhaps the least popular president of all time.President Donald Trump s job approval rating has dropped to 37%, while 58% of Americans disapprove of his performance so far as president, new Gallup figures show.Naturally, the poll ends with a plea for money.
Trump, who won the election five months ago still thinks he s campaigning.Trump ends the poll by begging for money (which you should give him to spite the lyin media) pic.twitter.com/XN02PBecQX Molly Crabapple (@mollycrabapple) March 23, 2017As Trump s popularity continues to plummet, the president appears to be slipping further into his own paranoid fantasies.
On Twitter, he s stopped even trying to find legitimate sources for his claims.
Now he exclusively tweets out links to disreputable right-wing conspiracy sites.
During a TIME magazine interview, Trump ranted about how he is always right and never wrong.The whole thing is getting a disturbing Hitler s final days in the bunker vibe to it.
Which may explain why this poll bears a striking resemblance to an infamous Nazi election ballot.
They too left very little to chance.
@mollycrabapple A tried and trusted methodology .
https://t.co/hDzL3ei6b7 pic.twitter.com/Q3agCcyQQz Murf (@murf) March 23, 2017But perhaps the most disturbing part of Trump s latest deepdive into paranoid delusions is how commonplace it has become.
As Twitter user @nycsouthpaw observed, stunts like this poll have a sickening authoritarian streak that is being shrugged off.this authoritarian garbage was sent out on behalf of the president of the united states and tbh we barely even raise our eyebrows anymore https://t.co/KIbqM2Pdti southpaw (@nycsouthpaw) March 23, 2017We ve become accustomed to this lunacy.Featured image via Michael Reynolds-Pool/Getty Images