Win or lose, the fact that Donald Trump was able to win the Republican presidential primary says a lot about the future of the GOP.
As much as many Republicans don t want to admit it, they ve allowed their party to slip into the hands of the extreme far right, and at this point, there s really no turning back.Appearing on Real Time with Bill Maher, Former Mitt Romney adviser Lanhee Chen explained that there are Republicans, like Romney, you seek to right the ship, so to speak.
He said: After this election, the Republican Party does have some soul-searching to do.
But to say that it is permanently changed implies that I think [Trump] will have some permanent influence on how we think about the world, and I think, from the perspective of someone who hopes that isn t true I hope that isn t true.
However, Maher pointed out that the problem isn t so much coming from within the establishment of the Republican party, but rather from the voting base it s been so desperate to attract to gain power.
Maher said: I mean they didn t want Trump, a lot of them.
And we see a lot of these Vichy Republicans who go along because they don t want to upset the apple cart.
They know better.
They know where their bread is buttered, where their voters are.
But you can get rid of the Trump, you can t get rid of the voter.
That s who they want.
Then when Chen desperately tries to say that all they need to do is reach out to more people and attract new voters, Maher said: That s not what the base wants.
The base is deplorable.
The current GOP base, the base that elected Trump to be its party s nominee, wants it to be the white power organization that it has drifted into becoming.
The Republican Party had the chance to oust the far-right crazy mindset, but they allowed a circus of a primary with 17 candidates.
Which then led to a small majority gaining behind Trump while all the other votes were dispersed.
They should have unified behind a solid candidate and Trump wouldn t have stood a chance.
Talking about outreach now is way too little too late.
The Republican party, as it was, is over, especially if Trump wins in November.Watch the full segment here:Featured image via video screen capture