If you ask members of the Democratic Party who is to blame for the rift in the party many of them will place the blame on Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz including former Obama advisor Van Jones.As the leader of the party, the last thing Schultz should be doing is criticizing one of our candidates, but she did.
On Tuesday, Schultz told CNN s Wolf Blitzer that Bernie Sanders was condoning violence after the Nevada Convention erupted in chaos: [Sanders ] response was anything but acceptable.
It certainly did not condemn his supporters for acting violently or engaging in intimidation tactics and instead added more fuel to the fire.
It is never OK for violence and intimidation to be the response to that frustration.
That s what happens with the Trump campaign.
We can never resort to the tactics that they engage in.
On Tuesday evening, Van Jones slammed Wasserman-Schultz s comments and said she is making the rift in the party worse: If you re gonna come out, you re gonna talk about violence, and you re the DNC chair, you ve gotta be fair about it.
I think she made it worse.
We need to bring these people together that did not happen First of all, Bernie did say in his statement that he was against the violence.
Also, if you want to talk about violence, only one person s been arrested; it was a Hillary Clinton supporter, Wendell Pierce, arrested for assaulting a Sanders supporter.
Jones is spot on.
First of all, as I said, the only thing she should be doing is bringing our party together and frankly, she has failed miserably.
Second, can Sanders supporters be obnoxious?
Yes, but so are Clinton s. To say that Bernie Sanders is anything like Trump is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard.
Trump actually tells his supporters that he would hit someone if he could.
He encourages violence at his rallies.As a person who has been to a Trump rally and a Sanders rally, I can tell you that the difference between the two atmospheres is like night and day.
Bernie s was peaceful while Trump s was full of people hurling insults.
The Nevada Convention got a little heated, but it was still nothing like a Trump rally.
Schultz comments are a perfect example of why some people believe she favors Clinton over Sanders.
Did she compare Hillary to Trump because one of her supporters hit a woman?
No she did not.
So, she should have kept her mouth shut about Bernie.I hate do not believe in the Bernie or Bust movement, but I do know that the leader of the DNC damn sure isn t helping matters.
We are never going to get through to Busters with this kind of divisive nonsense.Watch Jones comments below:Featured image via Leigh Vogel/Getty Images