You know how people have been wondering if Michael Flynn has been turned?
Well, the Wall Street Journal confirms that Trump s former national security advisor has agreed to testify before Congress in exchange for just one little thing full immunity from prosecution.Just after news broke that an associate of Mr. Flynn s was one of Trump stooge Devin Nunes sources for the specious secretly-gathered information with which the alleged Trump investigation leader found himself after a middle-of-the-night rendezvous on White House grounds, news broke that Flynn is ready to talk:Mike Flynn, President Donald Trump s former national security adviser, has told the Federal Bureau of Investigation and congressional officials investigating the Trump campaign s potential ties to Russia that he is willing to be interviewed in exchange for a grant of immunity from prosecution, according to officials with knowledge of the matter.As an adviser to Mr. Trump s presidential campaign, and later one of Mr. Trump s top aides in the White House, Mr. Flynn was privy to some of the most sensitive foreign-policy deliberations of the new administration and was directly involved in discussions about the possible lifting of sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration.It seems like Mr. Flynn has been naughty with the Russians, but whatever information he has is something he considers to be of much higher value.
While we of course do not yet know what secrets Flynn is currently keeping about the Trump administration s collusion with Russia, it seems safe to assume that this is news The Donald does not want to get out.Naturally, the internet is loving this new development:Michael Flynn should probably stay away from ledges, balconies, pie shops, the back seats of cars, swimming pools, bridges, taco trucks Wil Wheaton (@wilw) March 30, 2017Flynn just asked for a deal.
This is getting very interesting!
pic.twitter.com/I2xlIwyFxO (((DanielM.Potter))) (@PotterOnPoltics) March 30, 2017@costareports So, if I've got this right, Michael Flynn is going to be the David Wildstein of Russiagate.
Kathleen Martin (@ruralfabulous) March 30, 2017 @Lawrence Looks like trumps administration just died, Flynn cut a deal.
Nana Nana Nana Nana hey hey hey goodbye .. Coral Anderson (@CoralAnderson20) March 30, 2017@realDonaldTrump Flynn flipped!
You and your family are going to prison.
Lockup: Mar-a-Lago (@OutHouseAtty) March 30, 2017This is a dark day for the Trump administration but a good one for the rest of us who want to be rid of the bloated tangerine Manchurian couch potato currently living in the White House.Featured image via Getty Images (Chip Somodevilla)