How did any EU official think their country could survive an invasion of millions of mostly military age un-checked Muslim men?
Did they really believe these men would assimilate in their countries and respect the faith of Germany s Christian citizens?
A German official named Hansjoerg Mueller, of the Alternative for Germany party, said that because of Merkel s open door policy allowing the floods of Muslim immigrants the country is sliding towards anarchy and risks becoming a banana republic without any government .
He also said that it will push the nation to civil war.
The official said:Germany now is somewhere at the edge of anarchy and sliding towards civil war, or to become a banana republic without any government.Eight thousands people in Germany took to the streets holding Christian crosses to express their rage at Islamic evil.I honestly cannot think of a more beautiful image than that of the Holy Cross.
In the Holy Cross all worry is destroyed, all that one can see is justice, for on the Cross Justice Himself was persecuted, and He prevailed over all, for He is All, and in Him, all can can find resurrection.Christianity has been so corrupted into a weak country club, that it is my obligation to teach the true strength of the Faith.But the problem in the West is not Islam, nor is it Muslims.
These are merely a symptom to a greater disease, and that is the toleration of evil ideas and beliefs and the decimation of Christian supremacy.
Look to the forgotten wilderness, and what do you see?
Old churches and monasteries from bygone days, from a time behind our own eyes.
You can touch such an era with the finger of the mind, and you will see the hand of God in history.
Old Crosses still stand in the cold meadows and on the highest mountain peaks, because the Faith assails the summits, and its icons can be gazed upon adjacent to the raze of the horizon, with fiery hues that burn our souls and ignite the flames of hope within us.
For Christ is Hope, glimmering in the abyss of hopelessness; He is like an aura on the night sky, only if you try to grasp Him, You will see light greater than the luminaries of the darkest hour.
Old monasteries are found on the edge of the loftiest cliffs, bringing hope to a humanity on the edge of the cliff of order, about to fall into the ocean of disorder and confusion.The beauties of the Faith are so great that they will take one s mind to ecstasy, just by contemplating on all of the wonders of the flower of Christendom.
The flower of Christ s empire sails passed the autumn winds, and lands on the seas; the waters ripple and rage, the waves split open and the anger roars, buts the pedals of this illustrious bloom emanate an aroma that makes the waters sweet.
Bitterness dies, and the sweet smell and the pleasant sight of this flower gracefully floating above the most malicious waves, is the image of order; it brings illumination to those who hate chaos, and it provokes viciousness from those who love death and destruction.
This is the state of Christendom when she has faith in Christ.
When the flower of Christendom cleaves unto the Holy Cross, this is when she receives the sweetness of peace, Not as the world gives do I give to you.
(John 14:27) For when Moses cleaved unto God and cried for His help, the Lord of Heaven showed him a holy tree, and from this sacred wood, the waters were made sweet (Exodus 15:25).
And so when Christendom accepts the Holy Cross, she too will have its sweetness.Peter stood upon the waters, for in that moment he had faith.
When the waters roared and raged, and its waves arose aloft, this flower of the Faith was afraid, and he sunk.
The beautiful pedals that so embellished the waters was now overpowered.
But as soon as he cried, Lord, save me , the Holy One embraced him, and the flower of Christendom now hovered above the waters.
The state of Christendom is that it is now under the waters, drowning, and it is about to die.
The abysmal spirits crawl all over her, possessing people and pushing them to grab ahold of the flower and keep under the water.FOR ENTIRE STORY: Shoebat