Christian fundamentalists picked on the wrong restaurant to leave their fake $20 tips.For quite some time now, Christian fundamentalists have been angering waiters and waitresses by leaving religious messages disguised as $20 bills as the tip.The notes say that they can have something more valuable than money, which they claim is a belief in Jesus.But to the servers who receive such a tip, it s nothing more than a dirty trick that angers them.
They worked hard attending to their customers in an effort to receive a well-earned tip that will help them pay the bills and put food on the table.
A plain piece of paper masquerading as a $20 bill doesn t help at all.
If anything, it makes religious people look like a bunch of jerks.Well, one restaurant manager chose to fight back after a similar trick was cruelly played on one of her employees.According to WCNC in North Carolina,Penny Craver, general manager of Dish in Plaza Midwood, says one of her employees, who s also a student, was really upset on Saturday after receiving a religious pamphlet from her guests and a less than 8-percent tip.Instead of just being angry, Craver actually did something about it.
She looked up the church named on the fake $20, Harbor Baptist Church in Charlotte, and fired off an email to the pastor condemning the action and suggesting a Sunday sermon about fair monetary exchange.Here s the email in its entirety via WCNC.Pastor Simmons:I am the general manager of Dish (restaurant) in Plaza Midwood.
Imagine one of my server s surprise when she received a small pamphlet (Every one of us will face eternity one day) instead of a tip when she served what I assume was one of your congregation.
Her particular religious beliefs are not discussed at work; however, I do know that this pamphlet can not pay her mortgage or her electric bill.
It concerns me that someone would consider a pamphlet fair monetary exchange.
Suppose your congregation felt it was sufficient to tithe their personal writings instead of 10% of their income.
Your church wouldn t be paying their bills for very long.
I think it would be great if you used this in a sermon.
Pride, one of the 7 Deadly Sins, is considered, on almost every list, the original and most serious of the seven deadly sins: the source of the others.
It is identified as believing that one is essentially better than others, failing to acknowledge the accomplishments of others, and excessive admiration of the personal self (especially holding self out of proper position toward God).
I think it could be educational for at least one member of your congregation.
Thank you very much for your time.And it seems to have worked.
Pastor Simmons has allegedly spoken to the congregant who left the crappy tip and says it won t happen again, and if it does, the church will make it right.
Craver certainly hopes the church keeps their word, especially since this has happened several times in the last few months.Featured Image: Twitter