The news that a second man was able to sneak into the press gaggle inside the Capitol building earlier this week is a huge red flag.
With all of the hate and leftist extremists out there, the security should be very tight.
It s not Check out the news below that a second man bragged about being able to sneak into the press area:Congressional security officials Thursday were investigating a report of a second man who may have passed through security to join a press gaggle inside the U.S. Capitol building earlier this week awaiting President Trump, sources said.News of a possible second intruder came after another protester managed to infiltrate a group of reporters waiting for Trump, who had been meeting with lawmakers on Capitol Hill, the source told Fox News.The second person was described as a middle-aged man who stood about 6 feet, 3 inches tall and was dressed in a gray suit and bow tie.
When asked by reporters who he worked for, the man replied, I m a tourist, and bragged about being able to sneak inside the Ohio Clock Corridor in the Capitol building.
Via: FOX 5INVESTIGATION LAUNCHED INTO TRESPASSER WHO WAS ALREADY ON WATCH LIST:The liberal protester who earlier this week infiltrated a group of reporters in a secure area of the Capitol, tossed mini-Russian flags and shouted treason at President Trump had been on a watch list before Tuesday s incident, Fox News has learned.The protester was identified as Ryan Clayton, an activist from an anti-Trump group who was later arrested and charged with unlawful conduct.The U.S. Capitol Police Board is conducting an internal investigation into how someone without a press credential and on a watch list was able to slip into the secure area and get so close to the president.
This was a monumental f up, a senior congressional security source told Fox News.Clayton has been on a watch list kept by the Capitol Police, a source said, and was denied entry to the complex earlier that day when an officer recognized him at the Russell Senate Office Building.But later on, officers in a tunnel leading to the Capitol did not check his ID to see if he had a pass or badge, the source said.
He used an outdated visitor s pass to enter the Capitol through a tunnel connecting the Rayburn House Office building.
After clearing the security checkpoint, he made his way outside the Senate chamber, where he blended in with credentialed congressional reporters and stood just feet away from Trump.A source also said Clayton was in possession of a four-day old pass for the location of the House Sensitive Compartmentalized Information Facility, which is home to the House Intelligence Committee.
Fox News is told there is no evidence so far that Clayton attempted to access that facility.PROTESTER ON WATCH LIST MAKES HIS WAY INTO PRESS GROUP TO THROW RUSSIAN FLAGS AT POTUS:As we previously reported: A protester on Tuesday shouted Treason!
at President Trump and threw mini Russian flags at him as he arrived for a meeting with Senate Republicans: The unhinged left is at it again They only make themselves look like lunatics when they pull stunts like this:A protester threw Russian flags at President Trump on Tuesday as he entered the GOP policy lunch.The protester could be heard shouting Trump is treason as the president walked by.Random guy threw Russian flags at Trump and shouted Trump is treason pic.twitter.com/stVfDOtMAB a da ch vez (@aidachavez_) October 24, 2017 Why are you talking about tax cuts when you should be talking about treason?
the man could be heard shouting in videos.He was later identified as Americans Take Action s Ryan Clayton.Clayton is known for expressing his anti-Trump views by tossing Russia flags.
At the Conservative Political Action Conference in February, he spearheaded the distrubiton of over 1,000 Russian flags with Trump s name printed across the middle.Americans Take Action is anti-Trump, with tabs on its website dedicated to his impeachment, Trump Puppets and options to Get Russian Trump Flags.
Still unclear is how Clayton may have gotten into the press area, as security was extremely tight.Trump is huddling with Senate Republicans Tuesday on Capitol Hill in hopes of finding party unity.Republicans are in broad agreement about the need to pass tax reform, but are struggling to get on the same page as they begin a debate over legislation.THE IRONY IS THAT IT S THE CLINTONS AND THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WHO ARE DEEP INTO RUSSIA:Devin Nunes just announced a probe into the Uranium One Deal that smells to high heaven of corruption and money laundering by the Clintons and the Obama administration:BREAKING: Devin Nunes announces probe into the #UraniumOneDeal.
pic.twitter.com/c7p9mVdTYa Based Monitored (@BasedMonitored) October 24, 2017FBN S LOU DOBBS SPOKE WITH THE AUTHOR OF CLINTON CASH : Biggest scandal in the history of American politics While speaking with Peter Schweizer, the author of Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich, and Breitbart News senior editor-at-large on Friday, Fox Business Network host Lou Dobbs argued that the Uranium One deal could end up being the biggest scandal in the history of American politics.Dobbs said, There is no clear statement as to why we would give up, for any reason, any price, 20% of our uranium in this country.
And that is a question that is left open still unanswered.
and secondly, have you ever heard of anyone putting $145 million, at one moment, into the hands of the Clinton foundation?
And the answer is, of course not.
These questions, most basic and fundamental, were armed by the very committee made up of the very agencies, departments, and individuals responsible for national security.
this, this is the biggest Obama scandal.
I think it may well turn out to be the biggest scandal in American political history.