Donald Trump signed an executive order on Friday which enacted the Muslim ban he has been promising for months.
A federal judge temporarily blocked the order on Saturday.
But now, it appears that Trump s advisor Steve Bannon, who just happens to be a white supremacist, overruled the Department of Homeland Security to pass the bigoted ban in the first place.Like most of Trump s actions, he didn t really bother to consult anybody except for his inner circle about this executive order.
He says that he only surrounds himself with the best people but none of them actually have a clue WTF they are doing when it comes to the law.
When Trump signed the order nobody even knew what countries were affected by the ban.According to CNN, the policy team at the White House developed the executive order on refugees and visas, and largely avoided the traditional interagency process that would have allowed the Justice Department and homeland security agencies to provide operational guidance.
It wasn t until after Trump had signed his name on the dotted line that DHS really got a chance to sit down and try to determine if the order was even legal.
A person with knowledge of the matter said that homeland security staff didn t even get to lay eyes on the order until Friday.
Even Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Department of Homeland Security leadership didn t get to see the document until just before Trump signed it into law.
The administration also chose not to allow the Office of Legal Counsel to provide legal guidance on the matter.After they were finally allowed to review the order, DHS reportedly decided that the ban could not apply to green card holders, who are legal residents of the U.S., but Trump s Bannon overruled them.
CNN reports:It was finally decided that decisions on whether or not to allow green card holders to enter the U.S. would be made on a case by case basis, but directives issued to airlines clearly state that lawful permanent residents are not included and may continue to travel to the USA.
This would include green card holders as they are lawful permanent residents of the United States.A source close to the administration said that Bannon had been heading up the directives regarding green cards.
No doubt Bannon, with his racist alt-right ideologies, is running point on this whole mission.
This is what happens when you let a white supremacist run the country.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images