Donald Trump went on another uncontrollable rant against the media on Tuesday morning.Days after three CNN employees resigned over a minor story about the Russia investigation that turned out to be incorrect, Trump took to Twitter to gloat about it and claimed that because this story was wrong all the other news about Russia is fake, too.Wow, CNN had to retract big story on Russia, with 3 employees forced to resign.
What about all the other phony stories they do?
FAKE NEWS!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2017CNN responsibly retracted a story that alleged a connection to Russia by Trump adviser Anthony Scaramucci.
Scaramucci even called the move classy and called for moving on.
Well, Trump didn t move on.
He seized the situation as an opportunity to attack the media, with the exception being Fox News, as usual, arguing that because CNN got a story wrong that it must mean every other story in the media about Russia is wrong as well.
Seriously.Fake News CNN is looking at big management changes now that they got caught falsely pushing their phony Russian stories.
Ratings way down!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2017So they caught Fake News CNN cold, but what about NBC, CBS & ABC?
What about the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost?
They are all Fake News!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2017Trump even retweeted Fox hosts who parroted his claim that the Democrats are the ones who committed collusion.Mark Levin: The collusion is among the Democrats https://t.co/Qrca7r01BI FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) June 27, 2017Hannity: Russia allegations boomeranging back on Democrats https://t.co/lvdrpxpcp9 FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) June 27, 2017Keep in mind that these CNN staffers actually resigned over an insignificant error.
Meanwhile, Sean Hannity has been lying for weeks about the death of Seth Rich and he still has a job.Trump is apparently so desperate to stop the Russia investigation that he will do or say anything.Trump is also a hypocrite because most of what he has said since taking office is false, yet he refuses to resign.Twitter users even pointed out this hypocrisy and proceeded to mock him.Hmm, pot, kettle President Trump s Lies, the Definitive List https://t.co/6vqAmJlTTf pic.twitter.com/Ogwy1wuXnl Michael Vine (@mpvine) June 27, 2017Wouldn t a true fake news network not retract the story and keep the fake story going?
Tony Posnanski (@tonyposnanski) June 27, 2017Something like taping Comey or Obama s birth certificate or crowd size at the 2017 inauguration?
Tony Posnanski (@tonyposnanski) June 27, 2017The @nytimes isn t failing, Donald.
Digital subscriptions up by MILLIONS.
Stock near a 52 week high.
Not failing at all, Donald.
SOARING.
pic.twitter.com/TpGXONOtK3 MatthewDicks (@MatthewDicks) June 27, 2017You re spewing the fake news.
The 1st Amendment is there, in part, so the media can explain that.Attacking ALL media is what dictators do David Pepper (@DavidPepper) June 27, 2017Donald Trump must be truly insane if he really thinks one retracted story means he is vindicated.Featured Image: Win McNamee/Getty Images