Well that didn t take long at all did it?
2016 is only a few days old and already Republicans have vowed to do everything in their power to continue screwing America.
Why?
Because they re absolutely spineless and don t want to make the Tea Party mad.
Seriously, that s the entire reason.
One of the two major parties of the United States of America is so afraid of a tiny group of racist morons that they re willing to do or say ANYTHING to keep them happy.Speaker of the Mouse House Paul Ryan has already promised that Republicans are going to vote on repealing Obamacare again:Now it appears that Ryan earned the faint support of Congressional Republicans by promising to get back to the business of negation and legislative navel-gazing.
This was evident in Ryan s statement about his plans for Congress in January: When we return in January, the House will put an ObamaCare repeal bill on the floor and pass it and put it on the president s desk We are going to keep working to give families relief from this law while we work to dismantle and replace it altogether.
Yes, because millions of families that have never had health insurance before need relief from the burden of having health insurance.
And someone please let me know when Republicans figure out exactly what the replace part of their big plan is.Salon s Sean Illing summed up the GOP s actions quite nicely when he pointed out that, each of these votes, like the recent Benghazi hearing, was a masturbatory exercise in political theater.
In other words, Republicans are wasting the taxpayer s time and money for the sole purpose of creating anti-government Tea Party porn.Senate Republicans will be just as useless as Mitch McConnell has promised to keep persecuting refugees.
Refugees, if you ll recall, are the Greatest Threat To America Of All Time because 1 of them might someday do something bad.
Meanwhile, a group of armed white Christian extremists have seized a federal building and are threatening to shoot government officials.
But, you know, McConnell is worried about those wascally refugees fleeing war and violence.
Murika.Featured image via Cagle Cartoons