Six people are dead after a white, domestic terrorist went on a shooting spree in Kalamazoo, Michigan on Saturday, and officials are refusing to call it terrorism.Jason Brian Dalton, 45, started his shooting spree at an apartment complex where he shot a woman multiple times while her three children watched.
The woman is in critical condition but expected to survive.
Four hours later, Dalton killed a father and son who were car shopping at a Kia dealership.
Less than a half hour later he began chatting with people in two cars at a Cracker Barrel restaurant when he suddenly began shooting, killing four women and injuring a 14-year-old girl.At 1 a.m. Sunday, police pulled over a navy blue Chevy HHR and arrested Dalton without incident.
Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety said that he was even-tempered when police stopped him: Suspect is Jason Dalton, dob June 22, 1970, no known criminal record.
His demeanor was even-tempered upon arrest according to the prosecutor.
He was cooperative.
Acts committed were intentional.
Semi-auto handgun was found in suspect vehicle.
Video at businesses led to suspect vehicle description.
No other crime scenes we are aware of.
Prosecutor Jeff Getting said that Dalton acted alone and this was not an act of terrorism.
I don t have any reason to believe that it was anything like [terrorism] at all.
This was absolutely terrorism.
The prosecutor told the press that this was a premeditated act.
This man went to three different locations and callously gunned down innocent people and murdered them.
We have seen this time and again, a white person goes on a shooting spree and magically it isn t considered terrorism, but if a Muslim person does the same thing TERRORISM!This double standard is getting very old.
Dalton went to different locations and spread fear throughout a community; that is terrorism.
It doesn t matter if he acted alone.
It doesn t matter which god he worships.
It doesn t matter if he said anything, none of that matters.
What matters is that he picked up a gun and drove around murdering people and spreading fear.I m sure the right-wing and NRA will release statements very shortly agreeing with me.
Just kidding.
They ll probably ignore it.Watch:Featured image via KGW.com