Donald Trump got humiliated in real time on Thursday morning as CNN host Chris Cuomo responded to a tweet on the air.During an interview with Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal, Cuomo discussed Trump s Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch.
Blumenthal had earlier confirmed that Gorsuch criticized Trump s disgraceful attack on the federal judge who halted his executive order banning travel from seven countries into the United States.
He said very specifically that they were demoralizing and disheartening and he characterized them very specifically that way, Blumenthal said after meeting with Gorsuch.
I said they were more than disheartening and I said to him that he has an obligation to make his views clear to the American people, so they understand how abhorrent or unacceptable President Trump s attacks on the judiciary are.
Gorsuch confirmed his remarks via a spokesman, but that didn t stop Trump from lashing out at Cuomo and Blumenthal on Twitter.Chris Cuomo, in his interview with Sen. Blumenthal, never asked him about his long-term lie about his brave service in Vietnam.
FAKE NEWS!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 9, 2017In reality, Cuomo did ask Blumenthal about his misrepresentation of his military service, which basically stems from Blumenthal having misspoken that he served in Vietnam when he meant that he served during Vietnam but not actually in the war.
He has apologized for the mistake multiple times.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump never served at all because he dodged the draft.Anyway, Cuomo learned of Trump s attack on the air and he responded in real time.Cuomo asked that the beginning of his interview with Blumenthal be aired again.
What is your response to the president of the United States who says you should not be believed because you misrepresented your military record in the past?
Cuomo asked.Clearly, Cuomo did ask Blumenthal about his military service.
The president, with all due respect, is off on the facts, Cuomo said.
He just keeps doubling down when the facts don t favor his position.
Indeed, even CNN issued a brief statement, which includes video, via Twitter.
@realDonaldTrump .
@ChrisCuomo did address that point at the start of his interview.
https://t.co/JWJEAshv1y Those are the facts.
CNN Communications (@CNNPR) February 9, 2017At this point, Donald Trump really should be embarrassed and he owes CNN and Chris Cuomo a public apology.Featured Image: Screenshot