We are all aware by now of Donald Trump s racist rhetoric.
One young but very intelligent and articulate student understands how the media can at times sensationalize everything, so he decided to see for himself by attending a Trump rally.
His findings were not surprising: Trump s followers are very racist.
James Patterson, whose high school assignment was for him to volunteer at Trump s campaign as part of a student-based civics activity, perfectly analyzes the Trump phenomenon and he exemplifies what racists are afraid of: The baseline of his campaign is to make America white again.
It speaks to fundamentalist Christian, white middle class Americans who feel like their power has been taken.
Even though that s a false accusation, they feel like because minorities are making strides that they re losing power.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bh8VGKqqunA]Patterson was also stunned to see just how many people actually support Donald Trump.
He said: That s the scary part about the Trump campaign, they re everyday people, people we work with, people at schools, people who hold these resentments.
As an African American, that s very scary that I can talk to somebody and they can hate me because of my skin color.
Patterson said that what concerned him the most was how nice people pretended to be to him, yet they were in favor of Trump s racist policies, policies that have come out against minority populations, specifically Muslims and Mexicans: They were very friendly, they were normal people but in the back of their mind, and openly, they were advocating for Trump s policies which are inherently exclusive for people who look like me.
However, as he made his way through the crowd, Patterson said that the pretense of friendliness went away and he could feel the hostility: When I would bump into various members of the crowd, there were hostile looks when I would attempt to excuse myself.
Many people in the crowd looked me up and down as I was walking.
If I had to describe the feeling it would be that of isolation.
This all reminded Patterson of what he s made to feel like as an African American in this country.
The difference with Trump and his followers is that they normalize all this and make it fine.The most effective response to Trump and his racist army is for minorities to continue the march toward self-empowerment through education and activism.
This young man is an excellent example and an effective counter punch to the racists.
Featured image from Wikimedia Commons