It has been a long and windy road for the LGBT community, one they are still traveling, to have true equality under the law.
One of the people who really helped clear the path for so many individuals frightened to come out of the closet was Ellen DeGeneres (full disclosure: myself included).
She was brave at a time when it wasn t yet okay to be brave.
She was strong at a time when it was still dangerous for many LGBT individuals to live outside the closet.
However, she came out, and not only was she able to be successful, but she is a powerhouse in the entertainment industry, an inspiration to those who needed to know it s okay to be who you are, and just an outright tremendous human being who has been thriving as her true self.So, as Ellen thanked President Obama on her show for all the amazing support he has shown for the gay community, and all the progress that s been made under his leadership, Obama, being the honest and humble man that he is, turned the conversation back to Ellen.He said: As much as we ve done with laws and ending Don t Ask Don t Tell, etc., changing hearts and minds, I don t think anyone has been more influential than you on that.
I really mean that.
That s true You know, your courage and you re just really likable You, being willing to claim who you were, that suddenly empowers other people, and suddenly it s your brother, your uncle, it s your best friend, it s your coworkers.
And then attitudes shift and the laws followed.
It started with folks like you.
I m so proud of you.
Ellen, clearly touched by this moment of gratitude from the President of the United States, tries to return to center by joking, I m not really gay, which got a huge laugh from the crowd.However, the president is correct.
Ellen s bravery opened the doors to people accepting gay individuals for who they are.
She helped the nation and the world see that gay individuals are just like everybody else, and are in our communities, our churches, our circle of friends, and even our homes.
And for myself, she made it okay to come out.
She opened the door for so many people in that same regard.
So, thank you, Ellen.
You deserve all the praise the president just gave you, and more.This episode of The Ellen Show was absolutely fantastic and not only showed this touching moment, but also a moment of pure hilarity when the president read aloud a love poem to the First Lady.Watch here to see the touching moment between President Obama and Ellen:Video/Featured image from EllenTube