Last week, the mostly female audience of The View watched the panel of hypocritical, rabidly anti-Republican hosts attack Alabama s GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore for unproven sexual assault allegations.
Only one year ago, however, The View s co-host Joy Behar, attacked the disgraced the mulitple sexual assault victims of former President Bill Clinton, calling them tramps who slept with him .
Are the mostly female viewers really okay with the co-hosts of The View (who are completely devoid of any intellectual thought) dismissing the multiple allegations of sexual assault, including rape, by the impeached Democrat President Bill Clinton?
Is it really okay with their viewers that Whoopi Goldberg would refer to the wife of the alleged rapist, Hillary Clinton (who threatened his victims to remain silent about her husbands sex crimes, or pay serious consequences) a victim ?
When do the women who watch The View say, Enough with the hypocrisy!
?
The female hosts of The View discussed the second debate the following day on their show.
During the discussion, host Joy Behar called the women who allegedly slept with Bill Clinton tramps .Prior to the debate, Trump highlighted three women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault or harassment.
The View host Sunny Hostin suggested that Hillary Clinton may have missed an opportunity to address the controversy during the second presidential debate.
This is the thing though if a woman sleeps with your husband, you re not going to necessarily embrace them That s why when he brought up these allegations, I wonder if she missed the opportunity to address it in a way that the public would understand Hostin mused.Behar disagreed, joking that there wasn t much Hillary Clinton could say to the women.Behar suggested the Democratic nominee could say: I would like to apologize to those tramps that have slept with my husband.
Maybe she could have said that.
Fox News.
@WhoopiGoldberg reacts to Donald Trump inviting Bill Clinton s accusers to last night's #debate.
https://t.co/wxW54okAF5 The View (@TheView) October 10, 2016Only today, The View hags attempted to defend Democrat Senator Al Franken s sexual assault accusations, suggesting that he shouldn t step down, while simultaneously suggesting that GOP Senate candidate, Roy Moore, should drop out of the Senate race in Alabama.Watch:SHOULD SEN. FRANKEN RESIGN?
After a second woman accuses Sen. Al Franken of inappropriate touching, co-hosts discuss what should come next.
pic.twitter.com/NoerTvzzCd The View (@TheView) November 20, 2017