It is looking like Ben Carson is going to be Donald Trump s likely choice for Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
Carson says he is going to make America s inner cities great again.
And just how does he plan on doing this?
By ensuring that both our physical infrastructure and our spiritual infrastructure is solid.
Seriously.Carson and Trump were bitter rivals during the primary season but it didn t take long for Carson to fall in line and throw his support behind the billionaire after his own candidacy failed.
At one point, Carson dropped hints that he had been promised a position in Trump s administration in return for his endorsement.
He later tried to twist his comments when it was pointed out that there just happens to be a law against that.Last week, a close friend of Carson s reported that the retired neurosurgeon had turned down a cabinet position because he felt he was too inexperienced to be in charge of a federal agency.
Carson later denied that these reports were true.Wednesday morning, Carson wrote this on his Facebook page:Winning the presidential election was only the first step for those who love traditional America and do not wish to fundamentally change it.
Now the hard work begins of restoring the values that made us great.
We must bring back the compassion and the unity that empowers us and banish the divisiveness that weakens us.
After serious discussions with the Trump transition team, I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our inner cities great for everyone.
We have much work to do in strengthening every aspect of our nation and ensuring that both our physical infrastructure and our spiritual infrastructure is solid.
An announcement is forthcoming about my role in helping to make America great again.On Tuesday, Carson had admitted that the position was indeed on the table, but said that he was going to spend the Thanksgiving holiday thinking and praying about it.
But it may not take that long to hear the final verdict.
According to Trump aide Jason Miller, an announcement could come as soon as Wednesday.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images