Ever since the horrific act of senseless violence that was perpetuated on LGBT venue Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida, the most hateful preachers imaginable have been coming out of the woodwork to praise the shooter s actions.
One of those preachers is Roger Jiminez of Sacramento, California s Verity Baptist Church.
He posted a sermon that spread like wildfire where he said: As a Christian, we shouldn t be mourning the death of 50 sodomites.
Let me go ahead and start right there.
As a Christian, we shouldn t be sad or upset.
Thankfully, YouTube has removed Jiminez s rant due to violations of its hate speech policy.
Jiminez, however, is holding to the beliefs expressed in the sermon, and even goes so far as to suggest that the government should be killing people for being LGBT.
Firstly, he says that he does not have one iota of remorse for posting his hateful video: The bible does teach that homosexuality deserves the death penalty.
Leviticus 20:13 says that if a man lie with mankind like he does with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination and will surely be put to death.
Romans 1 says that they which commit such things are worthy of death.
Jiminez went on to add that, if people die who deserve to die, we don t need to be mourning that.
Perhaps the one redeeming quality this horrible excuse for a human being has is that he has no love lost for the shooter either: This gunman there that shot people up, the bible says he deserves to die, he died and we shouldn t be mourning his death, either.
That s the whole point I was making, and it s been taken out of context.
But then, he goes on to essentially incite violence while saying he s not inciting violence, all the while calling on the government to execute LGBTQ people: I m not calling people to arms.
And I m not telling people they should go do this What I m saying is that if the government followed the laws of God, that s what they would be doing.
And if the government did that, I d be fine with that.
I would be fine.
I would be totally okay with that, if the government did that.
That s what they would do, if we lived in a righteous nation.
In other words, this Jiminez character is essentially calling for a queer holocaust, right here in America in 2016.
This is where the government really should draw the line.
Whether Jiminez is calling people to arms or not, this is the sort of hate speech that causes situations like Orlando s tragic massacre.
This is literally giving deranged, hateful individuals permission to go out and kill people they deem worthy of death.It s Roger Jiminez that the government needs to be doing something about, not LGBTQ people.Watch the nauseating remarks below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture