Here is the Gateway Pundit s real news account of Sean Spicer s brilliant press conference today: Jim Acosta smugly asked, Can you give me an example of FAKENEWS, Sean?
That is when Spicer, never to be henpecked by the MSM, fired back: ABSOLUTELY JIM.
I ll give you an example.
Friday the president was having a great discussion at the G7 and someone from the BBC and then the New York times reTweeted that the President was being rude by disrespecting the Italian Prime Minister, when INFACT you all in every one of the meetings that you sit in watch the President with the one earpiece that has been used by other presidents.
[ ] And that s the kind of thing that the BBC and then ultimately a reporter whose joining the New York Times push out and perpetuate with no apology!
You re shaking your head Peter Peter Baker, the White House Correspondent for Carlos Slim s Blog, the New York Times, apparently disagreed with the facts.Peter Baker, the White House Correspondent for Carlos Slim s Blog, the New York Times, apparently disagreed with the facts.Sean: It s true.
You did it.
That is when things got more heated, and more hilarious, exposing the true hypocrisy of the MSM when Peter asked Spicer, Well don t reporters make mistakes?
In that simple question, Peter Baker admitting that the BBC and NYT had lied to push an agenda, never apologized, and then tried to back track only after they were called out.Spicer was quick to confront that, That s just FAKE!
Jim tried budding back in, exposing probably the most MSM hypocrisy of the entire briefing: You re making something out of ONE TWEET!
he objected.OH, YOU MEAN LIKE EVERY SINGLE BRIEFING WHERE 80% OF IT IS SPENT DISCUSSING TRUMP S TWEETS??
?After MSM reporters kept asking for a more examples so they could try and backtrack further, Spicer said, I did not come with a list of things, [click here for list of fake news stories] before going over the Administration s recent accomplishments and storming out before the reporters could further attempt to bicker with him.