Maybe its Trump s announcement that he s softening his stance on H1B visas.
Maybe Trump supporters are concerned that he s talking about suing newspapers, which many see as a disregard of our First Amendment.
Or maybe it was the huge applause Trump got when he told a large crowd at a MI rally that he d gladly waterboard and more suspected terrorists, only to say later in the day said he had changed his mind and would follow international law stating, I will use every legal power that I have to stop these terrorist enemies.
I do, however, understand that the United States is bound by laws and treaties and I will not order our military or other officials to violate those laws and will seek their advice on such matters.
Whatever the reason might be, Ted Cruz is on a Super Saturday roll and appears to be leaving Donald Trump in the dust.
We ll keep you up-to-date with the rest of the results as they come in.Cruz WINS Kansas:CNN projects @TedCruz will win the Kansas Republican caucuses https://t.co/DkPyle0Wrv pic.twitter.com/oZYtQxK6LB CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) March 5, 2016Cruz WINS CPAC Straw Poll:#ICYMI #BREAKING: @tedcruz wins 2016 #CPAC Straw Poll!
pic.twitter.com/oAvlAiJW9L CPAC 2018 (@CPAC) March 5, 2016Cruz is projected to WIN Maine:Anecdotal reports have Cruz crushing in the rural counties and even winning Portland narrowly.
Maine looks like his state.
Phil Kerpen (@kerpen) March 5, 20165:47: Cruz says the scream and howl you hear from Washington is utter terror at what we the people are doing together.
He says the last two weeks have been extraordinary.
Cruz said there were 17 candidates in the race a year ago and now Republicans, libertarians and men and women who love freedom and the Constitution are standing as one behind his campaign.
He says everyone understands the countries at risk and our Constitutional rights are under assault each and every day.
He says voters know America has receded from the world and the world is a much dangerous place because of it.
Cruz says he is here with a word of hope because people are waking up all America.
Cruz says jobs, freedom, and security will be the three top issues in the election.via: Breitbart News