Something wicked happened in Idaho s rural Magic Valley.
The evil has been compounded by politicians, media and special interest groups doing their damnedest to suppress the story and quell a righteous citizen rebellion.On June 7, a brief news item appeared on local Twin Falls, Idaho-based KMVT about a reported sexual assault that possibly occurred near the Fawnbrook Apartments five days earlier.
Unconfirmed accounts of the alleged crime on conservative-leaning websites, plus reports from area members of anti-jihad activist Brigitte Gabriel s Act for America group and longtime watchdog Ann Corcoran s Refugee Resettlement Watch blog, culminated in coverage on the powerhouse Drudge Report.The social media groundswell, untethered from the constraints of political correctness, forced government authorities to respond.Pro-mass immigration advocates may not like the sources of some of the original reporting that forced the case into the sunlight, but the watchdogs got more right than wrong.
These critics now have Twin Falls political leaders sputtering to cover their backsides and police brass defending themselves against explosive charges that they dragged their feet.Instead, the professional journalists dwelt on a few early factual errors about whether the boys were from Syria and whether a knife was used and filled their dismissive articles with can t we all just get along propaganda from refugee resettlement advocates and contractors with vested financial interests in the game.What these professional journalists, (who are working overtime to discredit anyone who reports about what happened) are conveniently leaving out of the story is the fact that the 5 year old girl who was reportedly sexually assaulted by three young refugee boys in GOVERNMENT FUNDED housing, was a special needs girl and that these young boys also reportedly peed in her mouth.
But the media is far more concerned about getting the refugees country of origin correct.
They ll never mention that these boys are more than likely Muslim, and that in their culture, rape is in most cases perfectly acceptable.
They re more focused on the fact that it may have been falsely reported that the boys used a knife to threaten her.
Do we really care if these young criminals used a knife?
Do we really care if they came from Syria or Iraq?
Americans see their way of life and their children s security being threatened by the invasion of Muslim refugees who have no intention of assimilating with Americans.
That s what we care about!Police and the local prosecutor s office grudgingly confirmed that an investigation had begun into the incident.
The victim: A mentally disabled 5-year-old girl.
The alleged perpetrators: Three boys, ages 7, 10 and 14, from Sudanese and Iraqi immigrant families (predominantly Muslim) who have been in the country for less than two years all but confirming that they are refugees.What happened?
The case is under seal because it involves minors, but prosecutor Grant Loebs said there is videotape of the alleged sexual assault (a fact which local activists first divulged).
Two of the boys are in custody.
It s not clear what happened to the third.Here s the sickening thing: The people who should have been asking tough questions like, you know, mainstream journalists have spent more time attacking local whistleblowers and bloggers than they have spent demanding answers and holding public officials accountable.Why?
Consider the backdrop.
Residents in Twin Falls have been worried about the impact of an increasing influx of refugees, many from jihad-coddling countries, over the past several years.
Their concerns about crime, welfare, health care, and schools echo those of communities across the country who are bearing the coercive brunt of Beltway bleeding hearts refugee resettlement policies enacted in a shroud of secrecy.Members of the Twin Falls City Council smugly likened refugee resettlement critics to white supremacists.
Regional newspapers including the Idaho Statesman and the Spokane Spokesman-Review rushed to discredit the on-scene reporting of internet writers such as Leo Hohmann, who had interviewed a witness to the crime for World Net Daily.
Jolene Payne, an 89-year-old retired nurse who lives at the complex told Hohmann that she spotted one of the boys taking pictures with a camera outside the apartment complex s laundry room.
She went inside and found the 5-year-old naked with two of the younger boys naked standing over her.
The worst thing was the way they peed all over her clothes, she recounted.Davis Odell, a community resident who has been in close contact with the victim s family said the boys dragged the unnamed girl into a utility room in the Fawnbrook Apartments, a low-income, subsidized housing complex in Twin Falls, and assaulted her in an attack that ended when a neighbor happened upon the scene and called police.
They stripped her naked, and urinated in her mouth, Odell told FoxNews.com, citing his conversations with the girl s family.Neither the Twin Falls Police Department nor Loebs confirmed the details given by Odell.
Loebs did confirm that the incident was reported on June 2, and that two juvenile suspects were finally charged Thursday and arrested a day later.
The prosecutor did not say why just two arrests had been made, and said the case is sealed due to its sensitive nature and the minors involved.
The callousness of local officials and indifference of local and national media reminds me very much of an international incident that went viral on YouTube earlier this year in the eastern German town of Bad Schlema located in a region overrun by Muslim refugees.A concerned grandfather whose granddaughter under the age of 10 was sexually harassed by Muslim migrants protested to mayor Jens Muller.
In response to his plea for help, Muller told the elderly man to direct his family to not walk in areas where refugees would be.
Just don t provoke them and don t walk in those areas.
Via: Townhall