Republican front runner Donald Trump refused to distance himself from the Ku Klux Klan and former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, who has endorsed him.
Trump s reasoning: he has to do research on them before rejecting their endorsement.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HfBAKW54FVs]Trump s statement comes as the Anti-Defamation League called on him to reject endorsements from white supremacist groups.
CNN s Jake Tapper asked Trump if he was willing to disavow white supremacist endorsements.
Here is part of the interview below.
Trump said: I don t know anything about David Duke.
I don t know anything about what you are even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists.
So, I don t know.
I mean, did he endorse me or what s going on?
Because I know nothing about David Duke, I know nothing about white supremacists.
And so, you are asking me a question that I m supposed to be talking about people that I know nothing about.
But Tapper wouldn t let him off the hook so quickly, and pressed on: Would you just say, unequivocally, you condemn them and you don t want their support?
Trump said: Well, I have to look at the group.
I mean, I don t know what group you re talking about.
You wouldn t want me to condemn a group that I know nothing about.
I d have to look.
If you would send me a list of the groups, I will do research on them, and certainly I would disavow if I thought that there was something wrong.
The Ku Klux Klan, Tapper interrupted.
Trump replied: You may have some groups in there that are totally fine, and it would be very unfair.
So, give me a list of groups and I ll let you know.
Okay, I m just talking about David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan here, said Tapper.
Honestly, I don t know David Duke, Trump remarked.
I don t believe I ve ever met him.
I m pretty sure I didn t meet him, and I just don t know anything about him.
To claim ignorance is Trump s way of dodging the question.
Trump knows that the majority of his supporters are racists and as is typical of a politician, you don t want to upset your supporters.
Thus, he s remained hush hush on the overwhelming support he s received from racists around the country.Trump has succeeded in normalizing bigotry and hatred for minorities.
It s going to be up to each of us, should he become the Republican nominee, to go out and vote against him in the general election.
Featured image via screen capture.