Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump allegedly hit on a journalist on Monday.
According to Karen Attiah, deputy digital editor for the Washington Post, Trump told her she was beautiful as she asked him a detailed question about his policies on racial inclusion.
The incident happened as Trump met with the editorial board of the Washington Post on Monday.So.
I got hit on today by Donald Trump.
Karen Attiah (@KarenAttiah) March 21, 2016As the meeting ended and we were walking out of the room, I thanked Trump for taking my question.
He turned to me and said, I really hope I answered your question, and added casually with a smile, Beautiful.
I was stunned.
I didn t say thank you, and I don t think I smiled.
He then walked out to meet with my Post colleagues briefly before heading to the elevator.I stayed in the conference room for a few minutes as it sunk in that the potential GOP nominee for president thought it was okay to comment on my appearance.
Did he just say that?The moment made Attiah think about how Trump views the world, noting that, In Trump s world, commenting on a woman s appearance in a professional setting is fair game.
She added:At least now I know, firsthand, that the sexism that Trump puts on display against Megyn Kelly under the lights of national TV is not that much different from how he is in real life toward female journalists.Trump has a history of bizarre behavior and language directed towards women.Appearing on the Howard Stern radio show, Trump discussed Latina actress Eva Longoria, telling Stern: She s really cute, I have to tell you, she s really bouncy, really cute.
She s about five foot one.
Do you like girls that are five foot one?
They come up to you know where.
He added: You have to get started, you have to like short girls.
She s very, very short.
You know, she goes out with a basketball player, which is interesting but she s very short.
In other clips from his appearances on Stern, Trump could be heard ranking, rating and degrading various women.
For instance:In one instance, Trump ranked his top 10 most beautiful women, and while his then-girlfriend Melania Knauss took the top spot, Trump told Stern he definitely would have sex with Mariah Carey, Cindy Crawford, and Princess Diana, who also made the list.
In another appearance, Trump assigned each of the actors on ABC s Desperate Housewives a score of 1 to 10 based on their attractiveness.
He said of one of the actors, Nicollette Sheridan: A person who is very flat-chested is very hard to be a 10.
When he got to Marcia Cross, he asked Stern, Would you go out with Marcia Cross or would you turn gay, Howard?
Trump has a problem with women, particularly assertive women in a position of authority.
This incident just appears to be more evidence of that.Featured image via Twitter/Flickr