It looks like veteran San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick might be done with his national anthem protests now that he s looking for a new NFL contract.The controversial player will stand for The Star-Spangled Banner next season, according to sources who spoke to ESPN Thursday.
Kaepernick first made headlines in August 2016 for refusing to stand during his team s preseason game against the Green Bay Packers, citing the oppression of black people in the United States.Kaepernick explained his refusal to stand for the Star-Spangled Banner, expressing solidarity with the neo-Marxist racial narratives of Black Lives Matter: I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
Describing himself as a black man in a society that oppresses black people, Kaepernick signed a 6-year contract with the 49ers in 2015 for $114 million.
He has also been paid millions of additional dollars through endorsement deals.In the days after Kaepernick s first protest, fans began burning their 49ers-themed gear.
One lifelong San Francisco fan set his Kaepernick jersey up in flames, slamming the athlete for claiming to be oppressed when he s making $126 million.
And in September, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said that, while the league supports players who want to see change in society, the organization believes very strongly in patriotism.
I personally believe very strongly in that, he said, according to USA Today.
I think it s important to have respect for our country, for our flag, for the people who make our country better; for law enforcement, and for our military, who are out fighting for our freedoms and our ideals.
While Kaepernick received kudos from those on the left, many fans and even NFL insiders weren t too fond of the protest, so it s no surprise he s changing his ways now that he s looking for a new job.According to the ESPN report, Kaepernick no longer wants his method of protest to detract from the positive change he believes has been created a change that comes one day after the NFL Network s Ian Rapport revealed that the veteran quarterback has decided to opt out of his 49ers contract and is now a free agent.
The Blaze