Donald Trump is the best player on the terrorist organization s team, and they couldn t be happier that he won the election.Tuesday s election results have not only emboldened racists to attack minorities across the country, it has emboldened ISIS.Trump s victory drew celebration from ISIS fighters on social media, and the comments should make Americans regret their decision to put such an inexperienced person in the White House.
Rejoice, he will show America s ugly face, said fighter wrote.And Trump has already done that by using the divisive and hateful rhetoric that is splitting the country along political and racial lines that will take years to heal.
Trump can beg for unity all he wants, he squandered that opportunity from the very first day of his campaign.
I am optimistic about Trump s victory because he is a stupid, arrogant, hubristic bull who is dumber than Bush, another ISIS fighter said.And it s true.
Donald Trump doesn t have a clue how to govern and he certainly doesn t know how to lead a military force.
After all, he dodged the draft multiple times during Vietnam and ridiculously claimed that he knows more about ISIS than the generals do, all while expressing wonder at why the United States doesn t just use nuclear weapons to defeat enemies.Most of all, ISIS fighters are cheering Trump s victory because he is inspiring others to join them.
Trump s vulgarity will embarrass (Arab) tyrants and enlarge the field of jihad, one fighter wrote.
If Trump wins, it s in our favor, another said.But they are only too happy to let Donald Trump rip the United States apart for them.
Praise God, may He increase this, one fighter said of the divisions and hate Trump has caused.
If we can inflame the dissension and troubles in their countries maybe they ll withdraw, wrote another, signaling that ISIS may try to stoke fear and violence among Americans.And they are hoping that Trump is the beginning of the end of the United States as a world power and beacon of democracy.
Trump s rule may be the beginning of a split in the United States and the era of its disintegration, Considering Trump did significant damage to our democratic values and system, and the fact that Russia probably believes they have a puppet in the White House who will help them weaken NATO, it s pretty clear that Donald Trump is already harming this country domestically and around the world.America is a joke now because of Donald Trump s victory.
He is a vengeful man who ignores facts and is easily provoked.
ISIS wants nothing more than for the United States to sacrifice more blood and treasure in the Middle East and he may very well give them want they want because he wants to prove how tough he is.
Our enemies sense weakness and they are moving to exploit that weakness for their own gain.
Conservatives may think they found their champion, but our enemies know they found their fool.Featured Image: Brian Blanco/Getty Images