After Tuesday s semi-coronation of Donald Trump as the Republican nominee, a lot of people, both liberal and conservative, took to social media to hyperventilate over the impending disaster of Trump winning the 2016 election.Donald Trump is never going to be President of the United States.
Ever.
Hillary Clinton is going to be the Democratic nominee and she s going to mop the floor with him.Here are a few facts to consider:There s more but you get the idea.
Trump is toxic in every way imaginable.
His message of hate combined with pretending to care about the middle class will not scale up to the national level.Despite what you may hear, Hillary is actually a strong candidate.
As a former First Lady, former Senator and former Secretary of State that s spent her entire adult life fighting for one liberal cause or another (women s rights, universal healthcare, LGBT rights, etc.
), Hillary Clinton is insanely prepared and qualified to be president.
She s also smart.
Really smart.
Obama smart.
Run circles around Donald Trump smart.Whether you like her or not, you cannot deny that Hillary Clinton has strong grasp on the issues.
She can rattle off facts and figures faster than most people can google them.
She has detailed plans that she is more than happy to explain at great length if you want.
Compare that to Trump s 4th-5th grade grammar and flimsy grasp of any issue and you re looking at a series of debates that will be humiliating for The Don.
Something else to to consider is that while the GOP was hampered in its ability to attack Trump, the left will be under no such constraints.
There are hours and hours of footage of Donald Trump saying horrible things about pretty much every group of Americans that are not white men.
The ads write themselves and Trump s hate only sells with his chunk of the GOP s already racist base.
Hillary will have an embarrassment of riches to choose from.
Added bonus, she won t even have to play dirty to do it.
While Hillary is no stranger to a down and dirty political fight (something else that will serve her well as president), she can take the moral high ground and let Trump fling mud at himself.Another useful Clinton fact is that she is the single most scrutinized and vetted politician on the planet.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, she s untrustworthy and a crook but when you ask the people saying that what crime she s committed, you get vague comments about her emails or something about taking bribes as Secretary of State.
They can t produce any evidence but, darn it!
they KNOW she s guilty of .something!But after 20+ years of Republicans spending an unlimited amount of resources, manpower and time into digging up dirt on her, Hillary has yet to have a scandal stick.
The liberal media has been trying to claim her scalp for just as long and have failed miserably.
These are the people that uncovered some of the deepest, darkest secrets of the United States government but the best they could come up with on Clinton was rumors and innuendo.I don t know about you, but that suggests that maybe, just maybe, there s no real scandal to dig up.
And let s be honest, the right has tried so hard, for so long, to pin something, ANYTHING, on her that the public has been inured to it by now.
They overplayed their Benghazi hand so badly that it stopped being a campaign issue right when they needed it the most.
The same thing will happen for all of their new scandals.
They ll rush them out, the liberal media will breathlessly report them as total fact and then the scandal will crumble.
Rinse, repeat.It didn t work on Obama and the public isn t biting anymore.And finally, this is what the electoral map looks like right now according to statistics genius Nate Silver:And it s only going to get bluer the more both Clinton and Trump speak.This doesn t mean we should get complacent.
Quite the opposite, in fact!
We have an unparalleled opportunity to take back the House, the Senate and several state governments.
Trump will both energize the blue vote and seriously suppress the red vote and we should be swarming the polls to take back the country from the Tea Party idiots that made Trump the nominee in the first place.Stay calm and vote blue!Featured image via twitter.