Philip Mudd, a former CIA official, totally tore Trump and his future national security adviser, Lt. General Michael Flynn, to pieces during a Tuesday appearance on CNN s The Situation Room.
Mudd had strong words for Flynn especially, saying he was absolutely not the right choice.
I m watching a clown show, he said.CNN has more:Quickly morphing in his own words from a CNN commentator to a former CIA official, Mudd went on to list a collection of men and women who have previously held the post Flynn is scheduled to occupy, all the while denouncing Flynn s behavior during the recent campaign.
We transition now to a national security adviser [Flynn] in a political realm who argues that an opponent, on the stump, should be locked up in prison, who argues that a billion plus Muslims should be grouped together.
Mudd went on to express his ire at the idea that Flynn s son Michael G. Flynn had security clearance requested on his behalf.While it should be noted that team Trump has denied requesting that access for Flynn s son, I have to point out they re already trying to bury the whole incident anyway, and are also liars, so their word is not to be trusted without thorough documentation.As Mudd said, the incoming Trump administration is, indeed, a clown show.
Unfortunately, it s also a clown show that will be running the entire country, and Flynn is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to swamp monsters on Trump s staff.Here s the video:Former CIA official Phil Mudd goes off on Gen. Flynn: I m watching a clown show!
https://t.co/oQC1TEd2bi The Situation Room (@CNNSitRoom) December 6, 2016Politico, in their coverage of the segment, touched on some of the issues people are taking with the appointment of General Flynn, saying: Trump s appointment of Flynn, who has referred to Islam as a cancer and argued that fear of Muslims is rational, has been challenged by numerous advocacy groups, with 53 organizations recently signing an open letter calling on Trump to rescind the pick.
In my own words:Flynn isn t as bad as Trump s other picks at first glance, that is.
He seems to have no clue what he s talking about with regard to many political issues, but on the subject of national security, he does at least have some expertise.
Unfortunately, that expertise is tempered with a let s bomb the shit out of everything!
attitude combined with extreme Islamophobia.
Lovely.
He s also been reported to have a loose relationship with the truth.
A leaked email from former Secretary of State and four-star general Colin Powell is even more telling: I spoke at DIA last month, Powell wrote to his son, Michael, on July 19 before relaying a story he apparently heard from Marine Lt. Gen. Vincent Stewart, the current DIA director.
Flynn got fired as head of DIA.
His replacement is a black Marine 3-star.
I asked why Flynn got fired.
Abusive with staff, didn t listen, worked against policy, bad management, etc.
He has been and was right-wing nutty every [sic] since.'
(The Washington Post)Come on, Trump, you can t do better than that?
Who am I kidding of course you can t.Every day it becomes more and more clear: Trump is an authoritarian moron with little idea of how to run a government.
He, and the people around him, are incredibly dangerous.Featured image via video screencapture