Donald Trump is someone who abuses the judicial system to help enrich himself.
In fact, USA Today has uncovered that Trump is or has been involved in an eye-popping 4,000 lawsuits.USA Today has been covering this for a while.
As of May, they had uncovered over 100 lawsuits.
In June, that number went up to over 3,500.
Now, he s up to more than 4,000 and many are as frivolous as you might imagine.Trump is an argument for why rich people should pay more in taxes.
Every single lawsuit that Trump engages in to protect his business costs taxpayers money and he spends a hell of a lot of taxpayer money in the courts.
He uses them to renegotiate his bills, to defend his refusal to pay taxes, to iron out personal beefs (and we all know how he racks those up) and whatever floats his litigious boat on any given day.Here s a breakdown:The bulk of the cases involve his casinos.
There are 1,863 casino cases and overwhelmingly, Trump is the one suing.There are 79 cases involving branding or trademark disputes.There are 206 contract dispute cases and in more than 2/3 of them, Trump is being sued.There are also 130 employment cases, and in the vast majority, he s being sued.61 of them are related to his golf resorts.191 of them are either Trump suing the government or the government suing him.There are six cases involving his presidential campaign, including a class action suit over bulk text messages directed toward people who never signed up.Surprisingly, there are only 12 defamation cases, despite the fact that he constantly threatens to sue.He s a defendant in 694 personal injury cases and a plaintiff in one.There are 621 real estate lawsuits, where he is generally the defendant.Yes, Hillary Clinton is also involved in several lawsuits (about 900), but overwhelmingly, she is being sued by federal prisoners, political activists and other people looking to sue the government.
It s not because she s Hillary Clinton, per se, it s because she was a high ranking member of the government.Trump, though, should not get anywhere near the White House.
We cannot have him nominating judges.
We already know how that could turn out.
Trump is incapable of taking his own personal feelings and his own personal business dealings out of anything, and that s not what we need as the leader of the free world.Featured image via Ron Jenkins at Getty Images.