Donald Trump finally held his first solo press conference on Thursday and it did not go well at all.In fact, it was a complete and total disaster and an embarrassment.Throughout his remarks, Trump peppered the press and the American people with lie after lie.His principle target, of course, was the media, which he again accused of being dishonest.
The press has become so dishonest that if we don t talk about it, we are doing a tremendous disservice to the American people, Trump said.
Tremendous disservice.
We have to talk about it.
We have to find out what s going on because the press, honestly, is out of control.
The level of dishonesty is out of control.
I ran for president to represent the citizens of our country.
I am here to change the broken system so it serves their families and their communities well.
I am talking, and really talking, on this very entrenched power structure and what we re doing is we re talking about the power structure.
We re talking about its entrenchment.
As a result, the media s going through what they have to go through to oftentimes distort not all the time and some of the media s fantastic, I have to say, honest and fantastic but much of it is not.
The distortion, and we ll talk about it, you ll be able to ask me questions about it.
We re not going to let it happen because I m here, again, to take my message straight to the people.Trump went on to claim that he inherited a mess from President Obama and portrayed the world as an apocalyptic wasteland that only he can fix.And then he bragged about his Electoral College win again as some sort of proof that the American people love him.I put it out before the American people, got 306 electoral college votes.
I wasn t supposed to get 222.
They said there s no way to get 222.
230 is impossible.
270, which you need that was laughable.
We got 306.
Because people came out and voted like they have never seen before.
So that s the it goes.
I guess it was the biggest electoral college win since Ronald Reagan.
In other words, the media is trying to attack our administration because they know we are following through on pledges that we made, and they are not happy about it for whatever reason.Trump s press conference was a dumpster fire of lies.
And NBC reporter Peter Alexander stepped up to the plate and called Trump out.
You said today that you had the biggest electoral margin since Ronald Reagan, Alexander began.
He then proceeded to list President Obama s two electoral victories which were far bigger than Trump s in 2016.Trump then claimed that he was talking about Republican presidential wins.Overall, Trump s win is one of the smallest on record and he lost the popular vote by nearly three million votes.Faced with the facts and caught in a lie, Trump was asked Why should Americans trust you?
Trump claimed that he was given the information, suggesting that he was just reading remarks that someone told him to read.Alexander repeated his question and added to it.
Why should Americans trust you when you accuse the information they receive as being fake when you re providing information that s fake?
he asked.All Trump could say in response was I don t know.
Here s the video via YouTube:Clearly, Donald Trump doesn t know how to do anything except lie.
And this is why we have a free press to call him out for it.Featured image via screenshot