One thing we ve noticed is that Trump has surrounded himself with great people who have a wealth of knowledge about the border and immigration.
Senator Jeff Sessions is one of those people.
He s been an advocate for closing our borders for quite some time.
Sessions and so many others must have really schooled Trump well on the border.
The speech last night was dead on and full of great ideas.
A new proposal has come up and is a brilliant idea.
It s just being considered but the idea of using seized assets from drug cartels something to think about since $8.7 billion was brought in just last year from seized assets.
That could pay for the wall in one year To fund construction of a new U.S. border wall, Donald Trump and senior advisers are considering various ideas, including the use of assets seized from drug cartels and others in the illicit drug trade.As the debate over who will pay for the wall dominates the discussion on cable news, sources involved in the pre-planning of the GOP nominee s Mexico trip told LifeZette the Trump camp is looking for innovative ways to pay for the construction of the border wall that both countries can support.
Sensitivities in Mexico regarding Trump s visit, and specifically paying for the border wall, are running high.
For decades, the illicit drug and arms trade has endangered and destroyed the lives of countless Mexicans and Americans A senior Trump policy advisor stressed the proposal was just one of several funding options being discussed and said the idea was not raised during Trump s meeting with Mexican President Enrique Pe a Nieto.Advocates of the make the cartels pay plan believe it has the added benefit of punishing the worst of the worst who bring violence to our streets and prey on innocent Mexicans and Americans, while giving political cover to both leaders to accomplish their objectives.
Sources close to both the Mexican government and the Trump campaign have confirmed that this proposal exists, but wish to remain anonymous given the preliminary nature of the discussions.Read more: Lifezette