Having lived through an assassination attempt herself, former Rep. Gabby Giffords (D-AZ) understands the seriousness of Trump s most recent remarks and his invitation to violence.
In a statement released on Tuesday, Giffords flayed Trump for inciting bloodshed when he suggested that Second Amendment people could stop Clinton from reaching the White House and subsequently appointing Supreme Court justices that will take away everyone s guns.In the powerful statement, Giffords and her husband, former astronaut Mark Kelly, told Americans that they must draw a bright red line in the sand between political rhetoric and inciting violence.
Responsible, stable individuals won t take Trump s rhetoric to its literal end, but his words may provide a magnet for those seeking infamy, their statement read.
They may provide inspiration or permission for those bent on bloodshed.
They continued, urging Trump supporters, the Republican nominee himself, and Americans in general to unambiguously condemn these remarks and the violence they insinuate.
You can read her full statement here:Donald Trump might astound Americans on a routine basis, but we must draw a bright red line between political speech and suggestions of violence.
Responsible, stable individuals won t take Trump s rhetoric to its literal end, but his words may provide a magnet for those seeking infamy.
They may provide inspiration or permission for those bent on bloodshed.
What political leaders say matters to their followers.
When candidates descend into coarseness and insult, our politics follow suit.
When they affirm violence, we should fear that violence will follow.It must be the responsibility of all Americans from Donald Trump himself, to his supporters, to those who remain silent or oppose him to unambiguously condemn these remarks and the violence they insinuate.
The integrity of our democracy and the decency of our nation is at stake.In 2011, Giffords was shot in the head while meeting with constituents outside of a grocery store in Tuscon, Arizona.
Six people were killed in the tragic shooting and Giffords was critically wounded.
Recovery has been long and hard, and is not yet done, but she has become a tireless advocate for gun control regulations to make America safer.
She spoke at the Democratic National Convention and said that as president, Hillary Clinton would fight to enact gun control legislation that would help keep guns out of the hands of people like the man who shot her.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images