Just remember, Donald Trump s campaign is supported by racists, and this is how they treat people of color.Police have been unjustly killing black people at an alarming rate, and that has caused a movement to rise in protest against it.
Black Lives Matter is making an effort to change the way police treat African-Americans across the nation, and that is making racists explode in rage because they cheer whenever a black person is killed in this country and they want the violence to continue.So when San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick chose to sit during the national anthem on Friday night versus the Green Bay Packers to protest police shootings of black people, the racists quickly attacked him by questioning his patriotism and calling him the N-word.
I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, Kaepernick told the press after the game.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
And he is right.
Police officers who unjustly kill black people often go unpunished and are usually sent right back out into the streets to do it again.
Police departments are reluctant to do anything other than to put the offending officer on paid leave.
Prosecutors are reluctant to bring charges.
And even if they do, grand juries usually let what most normal people call murder slide.And let s make this clear, we are talking about officers who kill black people who are unarmed and don t resist.
We are talking about officers who kill black people who run for their lives.
We are talking about officers who kill black people even though suspects are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.
Cops are NOT supposed to be executioners.But racists believe that keeping police officers from shooting and killing black people is somehow a violation of their rights, so they viciously attacked Kaepernick.Blatant disrespect doesn t work well for impacting change.
Feel free to find a country that supports you better.
#Colin Kaepernick Paul Hoffman (@papac00772) August 27, 2016 Welp, I guess my Kaepernick jersey is going out with the next thrift store donations.https://t.co/31DHUM8TMg Holly Nicholas (@ilikerox) August 27, 2016This nigger Colin Kaepernick has a $114M contract to throw a fucking ball.
Yeah, blacks are so oppressed in America.
AdolfJoeBiden (@Bidenshairplugz) August 27, 2016 Colin Kaepernick is keepin it real and gets the prestigious nigger of the day award overtaking Will Smith in hardcore nigger status.
nate (@bloodandsoil5) August 27, 2016Organizers should try the Saudi national anthem.
I bet Colin @Kaepernick7 & boycotting U.S. Muslims will stand erect https://t.co/R9aiLSNuzH (((Tarek Fatah))) (@TarekFatah) August 27, 2016 All of you faggot cucks worshiping nigger athletes like Colin Kaepernick are getting what you want.
You want to be shit on.
Kill yourselves.
MOBI-WAN (@28thVerse) August 27, 2016Of course, Americans have the freedom to not stand during the national anthem just like school children do not have to stand and recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
That is their right as citizens of this country.
Many conservatives are claiming that Kaepernick is disrespecting our veterans and their sacrifice, but that is not the case at all.
Our soldiers fight for ALL of our rights, which includes choosing not to stand during the national anthem.
Just because Kaepernick is making a political statement using the platform he has been given doesn t mean he hates our troops.If anything, Kaepernick is walking in the footsteps of Muhammad Ali, whom conservatives were praising not too long ago when he passed away.
The boxing legend also took a stand against rampant racism and oppression when he changed his name and refused to enter the service after being drafted for the Vietnam War.
White racists howled with rage then, too.And Kaepernick was taking a stand for others, not himself.
So claiming that his multimillion dollar salary means people of color like him are not oppressed is bullshit.
But the fact that racists attacked him in these ways prove that racism and oppression still exist in this country and that these racists are desperate to regain the white dominated racist America of the past.And they are trying to do that by supporting Donald Trump s racist campaign for the presidency.Yet Republicans still wonder why black people won t vote for them.Featured image via Wikimedia