Trump (once again) may be losing his biggest cheerleader okay, second biggest cheerleader after Rudy Giuliani Ann Coulter.Coulter, author of New York Times bestselling In Trump We Must recently took to twitter to already denounce Donald Trump, who he feels is about to initiate the biggest sell-out in politics over immigration.After conservative writer Mickey Kraus expressed worry over Mike Pence and Paul Ryan s pledge to tackle immigration head-on, Coulter tweeted:Sounds like the big sell-out is coming.
Oh well.
The voters did what we could.
If Trump sells out, it s not our fault.
https://t.co/tdMpAuDaRI Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) December 2, 2016Actually Ann, it is your fault.
You and all the voters (even though Trump lost the popular vote by over 2.5 million) put a notorious, serial liar in office for the next four years.
Someone who flip-flopped on every issue imaginable (and then lied about flip-flopping) is going to be President of th United States, so don t act all shocked when it turns out he was surprise a major sell-out to the people.
The exchange that seemed to put Kaus and Coulter on edge was an interview Mike Pence gave with Scott Pelley:PELLEY: Just since the election, President-elect Trump has reversed himself on prosecuting Hillary Clinton and on deporting 11 million illegal immigrants in this country.
Did he just say those things to get elected?
Did he never intend to do them?PENCE: I think what the American people know they have in President-elect Donald Trump is someone who speaks straight from his mind and straight from his heart.
And on the issue of illegal immigration, I promise you, as we were meeting yesterday on Capitol Hill with leaders of the House and Senate, we re going to go straight to work after this Congress convenes and this administration takes office.
And we re going to pass policies that will end illegal immigration in this country.Doesn t seem like anything bad, and on the surface it looks like something every conservative should want.
But when one factors in that Republicans are seeking to repeal Obamacare, deregulate Wall Street, and begin confirmation hearings for the next SCOTUS pick, immigration reform happening right away may seem like a distant hope for xenophobes like Kaus and Coulter.It looks like Trump is losing support from Coulter and he s not even president yet.
It wouldn t be the first time Coulter seemed to back off of supporting Trump.
It certainly won t be the last time either.Featured image Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images