While there have been what seems like dozens of Republican debates, one stands on its own as the one Trump didn t attend.
That debate happened in January, and in lieu of attending, Trump held a rally that was supposed to raise money for veterans.
Unfortunately, though, half the $6 million raised never got to the veterans and no one knows where it is.The Trump campaign said the event raised $6 million for different veterans groups, with Trump himself contributing $1 million, but details released by the campaign Thursday show only about half of that money has been dispersed so far.The campaign did not provide specifics earlier this week, but after a CNN report aired Thursday morning questioning the contributions, a spokeswoman shared a list in the afternoon showing 27 veterans organizations that have received a total of $2.9 million to date.The campaign promised that it was no big deal and that the veterans would get the money as soon as they figured it out.
Well, several months have passed, and the missing $3 million is still missing.
All they have now is deflection.
If the media spent half as much time highlighting the work of these groups and how our veterans have been so mistreated, rather than trying to disparage Mr. Trump s generosity for a totally unsolicited gesture for which he had no obligation, we would all be better for it, (campaign spokeswoman Hope) Hicks said Thursday.When asked about the money by CNN s Chris Cuomo, the network s Drew Griffin said:We found the same thing that you found Chris, a lot of promises and not a lot of answers and it just shouldn t be that hard, number one in the big scheme of things it s just not that much money and the accounting is not that difficult to do.Here s a video from CNN:Some experts say that this isn t that unusual, that it often takes a few months before large donations make it to their destination, but others say that the veterans organizations should have been paid by now.
The bigger question, though, is where the hell is the money?Whether this is an innocent mistake or something much worse, it doesn t bode well for the Trump campaign, but few are covering this.
Trump is a terrible money manager.
He has filed bankruptcy a whopping four times and he promised to do the same with the United States.
Of course, even if every one of Trump s supporters were to read this, they wouldn t care.
Hell, he could steal money right out of veterans hands, and they wouldn t care.
It s just like Obama Derangement Syndrome (and Clinton Derangement Syndrome), only the exact opposite.Featured image via Christopher Furlong/Getty Images