Eric Holder just doubled down on threats this old radical is off his rocker.
He might be shaking in his boots that his corruption will be exposed too.
We know there s plenty of it to go around Benghazi is just one of many ABSOLUTE RED LINE: the firing of Bob Mueller or crippling the special counsel s office.
If removed or meaningfully tampered with, there must be mass, popular, peaceful support of both.
The American people must be seen and heard they will ultimately be determinative.
ABSOLUTE RED LINE: the firing of Bob Mueller or crippling the special counsel s office.
If removed or meaningfully tampered with, there must be mass, popular, peaceful support of both.
The American people must be seen and heard they will ultimately be determinative.
Eric Holder (@EricHolder) December 17, 2017We previously reported on Eric Holder and Obama s Ethics Czar threatening against firing Mueller:This is the height of irony.
Obama s ethics czar is threatening to take the streets if Mueller is fired.
Eric Holder also threatened congress not to fire Mueller:Speaking on behalf of the vast majority of the American people, Republicans in Congress be forewarned:any attempt to remove Bob Mueller will not be tolerated.These are BS attacks on him/his staff that are blatantly political-designed to hide the real wrongdoing.
Country not party Eric Holder (@EricHolder) December 14, 2017NOW THIS:The federal government s former ethics czar says he is stocking up on gear in order to take the streets in the event that President Trump removes Robert Mueller as special counsel.
I m concerned the assault on the rule of law is coming over the holidays when we re distracted.
It ll be a defining moment for the Republic, Walter Shaub wrote on Twitter on Friday.Shaub, an Obama appointee who quit his position earlier this year in protest against Trump, circulated a advertisement for an event sponsored by MoveOn.org, the left-wing activist group.He tried to walk back the threatening tweet but if he s in the camp of organizations like MoveOn.org, it s clear he s ready to rumble.Read more: Daily Caller