In his efforts to weasel out of answering questions about Donald Trump s lie that President Obama tapped Trump Tower s wires, Sean Spicer uttered four little words that he now regrets.
No, that s above my pay grade, Spicer told a reporter when asked for evidence that Trump was telling the truth.Jay Carney, President Barack Obama s press secretary, very quickly shut down Spicer s claim that he does not have access to that information via Twitter.
Actually, his pay grade is the highest possible at WH same as for chief of staff, national security and other senior personnel, Carney tweeted:Actually, his "pay grade" is the highest possible at WH same as for chief of staff, national security and other senior personnel.
https://t.co/V3BENwFHjI Jay Carney (@JayCarney) March 7, 2017Yes, this means that Sean Spicer lied to you.On Saturday, Trump dropped a bigger lie about Obama than the whole Kenya thing (and that was a whopper).
Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
our alleged President said as part of an extended rant that was clearly intended to distract from the very real scandals related to him, his campaign, his staff, and a little shirtless Russian guy he calls Vladdy Poot Poot (we assume on that last bit).
A cardinal rule of the Obama administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice, Obama responded via spokesman Kevin Lewis.
As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen.
Any suggestion otherwise is simply false.
So far Trump has not been able to provide a shred of evidence and even some of Obama s most vocal opponents have failed to defend The Donald.
Nevertheless Trump has demanded that the Republican Congress distract themselves from any of those pesky Russia investigations by looking into whether or not Obama did the stupid and illegal thing he falsely said he did.
They agreed, because they legitimately do not care what laws he breaks.Watch Spicer lie again below:Featured image via screengrab