Donald Trump recently went after the gun nut vote in a hard way when he declared during the National Rifle Association s annual meeting on Friday that he, as president, would get rid of gun-free zones.
Of course, Trump didn t mention during his pandering that many of the properties that he owns could be described as gun-free zones.
He also just backtracked on the issue to a large degree, days after the meeting.An official with the Trump Organization told ABC News that there are no restrictions on licensed individuals carrying in our hotels or golf clubs.
That statement turns out to be completely false.
Here is a rundown of properties that ABC News discovered that do, in fact, have restrictions on carrying guns.
Mar-a-Lago, Trump s posh Florida club, doesn t allow guns, a hotel staff member told ABC News.Trump National Doral, in Miami, Florida, doesn t allow guns either, a security official told ABC News.
The resort would much rather not have guns on the property, said a security official with the hotel, who noted that guns are not to be carried on our property.
We ve had guests that have brought them before, he said, but those guns had to remain in their safe the whole time in the room.
A security worker at Trump National in Jupiter, Florida, said no when asked if guns were allowed on premises by citizens who are licensed to carry them.
Asked about exceptions for people like off-duty cops, the staff member directed ABC News to a supervisor, who said the hotel had no comment at all on guns at the property.Trump International Golf Club in Palm Beach County, Florida, also doesn t allow citizens with concealed carry licenses to bring their guns on the property, a golf-shop worker told ABC News.
Now, of course, these policies make sense.
Who would want to go to a resort or golf club to relax only to be surrounded by insecure people carrying around firearms?
The same could be said for any establishment.
Why should the staff or patrons at a restaurant or retail store have to deal with the person who just walked in carrying an assault weapon?So, once again we find a clear disconnect between what Trump says and reality.
Maybe Trump just wants to ban all gun free zones except those that are enacted on premises that primarily serve the wealthy?
As he has recently stated in another attempt to pander to the the second amendment is the only amendment that matters crowd, Trump stated that he thinks that teachers should be able to carry firearms on school premises.Except that, since he Trump, he can t even seem to make up his mind on that matter.
On Sunday, Trump was questioned about his stance on letting teachers carry firearms during an interview on Fox & Friends.
That s where he stated that: I don t want to have guns in classrooms.
Although, in some cases, teachers should have guns in classrooms.
That means absolutely nothing and is a far cry from what he was preaching just a few days ago and his pledge he made in January when he said: I will get rid of gun-free zones on schools you have to and on military bases.
My first day, it gets signed, OK?
My first day.
There s no more gun-free zones.
Trump appears to be willing to spout any NRA talking point in an attempt to pander to anyone willing to be pandered to.
In some cases does not in any way mean a blanket throwaway policy like he has been describing for most of his campaign.
Instead, he now offers this ambivalent stance on a topic that impacts millions of lives.Featured image from (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)