Conservatives have suggested repeatedly that if former President Barack Obama clicked his heels together three times while saying the words radical Islamic terrorism then terror attacks would never happen again.
Ever.
During former reality show star Donald Trump s speech in Saudi Arabia, he failed to use those words, but it helped to elect him while on the campaign trail by criticizing his opponents for not saying the magical phrase.While Trump is visiting the Middle East, a bomb tore through an entrance hall of the Manchester Arena at about 10:30 p.m. as American pop star Ariana Grande s concert was ending.
In total, 22 people died and 59 concert-goers were hospitalized, marking this as the deadliest terrorist assault in Britain since 2005.On Tuesday, ISIS claimed responsibility for the bombing.During President Curtsy s press conference with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, Trump branded terrorist groups as evil losers.
I extend my deepest condolences to those so terribly injured and to the so many families of the victims.
We stand in absolute solidarity with the people of the United Kingdom, Trump said Tuesday.
So many young beautiful and innocent people living and enjoying their lives, murdered by evil losers in life, he said.
I won t call them monsters because they would like that term, he continued.
They would think that s a great name.
I will call them from now on losers because that s what they are, they re losers.
And we ll have more of them.
But they re losers, just remember that.
The terrorists and extremists and those who give them aid and comfort must be driven out from our society forever, he added, then called on the international community to protect human life.
Watch Trump deliver a real sick burn to terrorists everywhere by calling them evil losers.
You know, as opposed to evil winners.On the campaign trail, Donald Trump said he would present a plan to defeat the Islamic State to his generals within 30 days after taking office, but that hasn t happened.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.