Donald Trump is not going to like this at all.The Republican nominee s pathetic effort to draw Hispanic voters to his campaign has failed miserably, especially after his disastrous trip to Mexico and the immigration speech he made afterwards.Trump visited our southern neighbor to discuss the wall and who will pay for it, only to be told that Mexico will not pay for it.
Defeated, Trump was so humiliated that he claimed there was no discussion about that particular topic, only to be embarrassed once more by Mexican officials when they called him out on his lie.In fact, Trump doubled down on his immigration plan, declaring that there will be no amnesty and that Mexico will pay for the wall.In other words, Trump still wants to deport 11 million people and is suggesting that he will somehow force Mexico to pay the bill for something they did not build nor support.And that s exactly why Hispanic Chamber of Commerce CEO Javier Palomarez went on Morning Joe on MSNBC on Thursday morning to declare Trump s campaign done for among the Latino community.Palomarez began by pointing out that net immigration across the Mexican border has basically dropped to about 20,000 people, which might as well be zero in a nation as big as ours.
Then he revealed that the 20,000 are those who are leaving America instead of coming in.
That blows Trump s entire premise for a wall out of the water.Joe Scarborough asked Palomarez what his take is on Trump s effort to have it both ways by suggesting that maybe he won t deport that many people while also repeating his draconian immigration plans to his racist conservative base.
He s painted himself into this box, Palomarez replied.
He s damned if he does, and damned if he doesn t. He really had to come back out and fire up his base, but in reality he hasn t done anything to help himself in terms of growing the number, so I think he is done for with the Hispanic community.
Palomarez said that Trump will never see the White House without a decent portion of the Hispanic vote, and then he dropped the hammer on the Republican nominee with a single word of Spanish.
I don t know if you guys speak Spanish, but I want you to remember this one word: Payaso.
It means clown.
This guy is a complete clown.
Palomarez went on to say that Trump has laid to waste any outreach effort Republicans have made after the 2012 Election and there s no going back.
Here s the video via YouTube.There is no way Donald Trump can possibly make amends with Hispanic voters with two months to go.
Any such attempts would be seen as desperation from a failing candidate whose poll numbers have only imploded since the RNC Convention in July.Hillary Clinton is poised to win the Hispanic vote by even larger margins than President Obama did in 2012, and Trump is so despised that his presence at the top of the ballot could be disastrous to Republicans down the ticket.It s too late to appeal to Hispanics for their votes, and Republicans know it.
The only ones who don t are delusional Trump fans who really believe he is going to win the election and they are going to be devastated when the results are revealed on Election Day.Featured image via screen capture