Donald Trump s son, Eric Trump, wants to be just like daddy.
And, truth be told, normally there would be nothing wrong with that, except for the fact that his dad is none other than Donald Trump.
So maybe it s not his fault per say for this latest slip up of his (it is, after all, engrained into him) but little Trump ended up making quite the statement Monday night when he appeared on Fox s On the Record.
It s so ridiculous even that maybe he does have a political future ahead of him, just like daddy.Here was what little Trump said when asked to explain what his dad meant by his we ll do something worse than waterboarding comments yesterday: You see these terrorists that are flying planes into buildings, right?
You see our cities getting shot up in California.
You see Paris getting shot up.
And then somebody complains when a terrorist gets waterboarded, which quite frankly is no different than what happens on college campuses and frat houses every day.
And, you know, the man would keep this country safe.
There is no question about it.
As he says, he just wants to protect his father.
But, that s quite a statement he made.
We re still trying to process it.
We might even let such a ridiculous statement slide if it wasn t such a serious issue.
Waterboarding is torture, end of discussion.
We ve already dealt with George W. Bush s presidency; we don t need another.
But, this is the main difference between Republicans and Democrats it seems; Trump isn t the only one who thinks waterboarding is okay.
Ted Cruz has also come out on the record of saying it doesn t even fit the definition of torture, contrary to not only common sense but even the United Nation s definition.
Here it is: Torture means any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person information or a confession when such pain or suffering is inflicted by or at the instigation of or with the consent or acquiescence of a public office or other person acting in an official capacity.Time and time again, highly credible experts and well-respected people have come forward on this issue, and all have said waterboarding is torture.
This is a political issue of trying to look tough on terrorism, and it s also an election year.
Deep down these guys don t care if it s torture or not; they think they re making the country safe.
And, they re wrong.Featured image from screen capture.