Late Show host Stephen Colbert has been having a high old time ripping Donald Trump and his crazy, scandal-ridden administration to shreds on a nightly basis.
However, no matter his open loathing of Trump, the comedian never crossed the line of questioning the integrity of the election result until now.On Tuesday night in a real humdinger of a monologue, Colbert started in on the story about how NSA contractor Reality Winner leaked secret documents that revealed that the election hack was much broader than the American public had previously been aware of.
Indeed, it seems the Russians hacked into the electoral system right up until election day.
Colbert said of this development: Days before?
Come on, Guccifer, that s poor planning.
You can t leave your hacking to last minute.
Put some thought into it.
No one wants an election you just picked up at Walgreens.
That s when Colbert hit his home run: Who really knows who won November 8th now?
I mean, other than Vladimir Putin.
Now, I m a little rusty on my Constitution, but I guess that means new election?
Of course, the crowd cheered heartily at this, and Colbert lapped it up and continued: Let s just get the band back together.
Somebody find Jeb and wake him up.
I don t know where he is.
Check the mild salsa aisle, or a store that sells only mayonnaise.Now, all along, Donald Trump has said the entire Russia story is fake news.
And there s no way to know whether this document that was released was real other than the fact that the leaker was immediately arrested.
All in all, there s just so much goodness in this monologue that you just have to watch it for yourself.
In all seriousness though, Colbert is right the American public now has very good and valid reasons to question the integrity of the outcome of the presidential election in 2016.
We do need a new election.
We have to have faith in our electoral process, and we don t have it now.It s time to find some constitutional mechanism to make this happen.Watch Colbert s brilliance below: Featured image via video screen capture