Leaked text messages between the daughters of Paul Manafort, who served as Donald Trump s campaign manager until his Russian ties came back to bite him in the rear, reveal that they believe their father committed mass murder in the Ukraine.Manafort has conceded that his daughter s phones were hacked and roughly 300,000 messages were leaked.
There is no way to describe the conversations between Andrea and Jessica other than downright chilling.
Don t fool yourself, Andrea wrote to her sister, according to Business Insider.
That money we have is blood money.
You know he has killed people in Ukraine?
Knowingly, she continued.
As a tactic to outrage the world and get focus on Ukraine.
Remember when there were all those deaths taking place.
A while back.
About a year ago.
Revolts and what not.
Do you know whose strategy that was to cause that, to send those people out and get them slaughtered.
In later messages between Andrea and her cousin, Collin Bond, she also revealed that Manafort s marriage was in trouble, but a public divorce was not an option because Manafort had too many skeletons and his work and payment in Ukraine is legally questionable.
He is a sick f ing tyrant, Andrea said to Bond regarding her father.
And we keep showing up and dancing for him.
We just keep showing up and eating the lobster.
Nothing changes.
In their texts, his daughters also discussed Manafort s relationship with Donald Trump.
Politico reports:In one exchange, daughter Jessica Manafort writes Im not a trump supporter but i am still proud of dad tho.
He is the best at what he does.
Her sister Andrea Manafort responded by referring to their father s relationship with Trump as The most dangerous friendship in America, while in another exchange she called them a perfect pair of power-hungry egomaniacs, and asserted the only reason my dad is doing this campaign is for sport.
He likes the challenge.
It s like an egomaniac s chess game.
There s no money motivation.
Manafort has a long history of working for murderous dictators with zero f*cks to give about those who suffer the ultimate consequences.
Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, Ukraine s Viktor Yanukovych, and Zaire s Mobutu Sese Seko are all on Manafort s resume.
And apparently, his family is completely aware of who this man really is and so is Trump.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images