Clearly, one big goal of the conservative Christian base is to one day strip women of their right to vote and confine them solely to the home.And that s exactly what Arizona pastor Steven Anderson of the Faithful Word Baptist Church preached to his congregation in a video he uploaded to YouTube.In this latest rant, Anderson goes full misogynist, whining about women being able to divorce their husbands, having the right to vote, and having a job outside of the home, all of which he believes only men should have the ability to do.
You know what they mean [by women s rights]?
Anderon asked his flock.
The right to divorce your husband is what they mean.
You know what they mean?
The right to rebel and disobey your husband, the right to divorce him, the right to go out and get a job and make your own money, the right to tell him what to do, the right to go vote for our leaders as if women should have any say in how our country is run when the Bible says that I suffer not a woman to teach, not to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence ?I AM QUOTING THE BIBLE RIGHT NOW!But it s old-fashioned Here s the video via YouTube.This isn t the first time Anderson has been a total dick towards women.
He once went on a rant about how women shouldn t be allowed to read, talk, or leave the house without permission from a man.
He has even demanded that women keep their mouths shut in church, which makes one wonder how any woman can stand being around this asshole.And he is hardly the first conservative Christian hero to call for banning women from voting.
Fake historian David Barton has also said that women should be barred from voting because the Bible says that only the head of the household should be allowed to vote on the family s behalf, regardless of what policies or candidates the rest of the family supports.And Republican presidential candidates, from Ted Cruz to Trump to Rubio to Kasich, haven t exactly made it a secret that they have a general disdain for women.
All of them have made it clear that women s rights will suffer should any of them become president.
And it s because of preachers like Anderson on the Christian right that Republicans have adopted such medieval beliefs about women, which is why it is even more important than ever before that every woman in this country exercise their right to vote.
Because if they don t, they may not have that right much longer if conservatives have their way.Featured image: screenshot