For nigh on two years now, wise people have been warning against the normalization of Donald Trump.
However, the media insisted on giving him and his outrageous travesty of a campaign billions of dollars in free advertising, and refused to convey one simple fact to the American people: Donald Trump is in no way fit to president and Commander-in-Chief.
In fact, he is dangerously unfit.
Trump is clearly a narcissist, unbelievably vengeful and vicious, and in many ways seems to be VERY mentally unstable and unable to control his impulses.
Despite these obvious traits that would make anyone unsuited to be president, America has elected him, and now we re in grave danger.
The worst part of it?
The media is rushing to normalize him once again, and with that normalization comes more danger than ever.
Therefore no matter how much the media tells us to do so, no matter how many politicians tell us to do so, we must resist the normalization of this absolutely abnormal presidency.
There s one person who is doing an amazing job of telling us just what we need to hear and understand: Keith Olbermann.On GQ s The Closer, Keith Olbermann has been busily railing Donald Trump in ways the mainstream media refuses to do.
Now that Trump is the president-elect, he has come out with a brilliant video called The Resistance in which he explains the grave danger we are in, and why Trump must be resisted every step of the way.
First, Olbermann says that he himself will help lead those of us who understand how dangerous Trump is: Since no Democratic or liberal politician has yet stepped forward out of the morass of Politics, Inc. to take on the responsibility of The Resistance, I, with complete awareness of the presumptuousness and arrogance of this statement, volunteer myself, and I will gladly turn over all these burdens to any more legitimate and informed lawmaker or political or cultural leader who has the guts to take these burdens.
Then, Olbermann goes on to lay into Trump in spectacular fashion, laying out all of the reasons he cannot be accepted, and how we might go about making sure we never accept him as president: The first step is to complete the de-legitimizing of his presidency and his election.
De-legitimizing that he himself began.
Sixty-eight days until his inauguration, still bitching about his paranoid fantasies about the media, still lying about what he said during the campaign, still referring to himself in the third person, still obsessing over one newspaper as if he were fifteen and it had refused to go with him to the junior prom.
Give him a chance?
What, in the hope that he will someday grow up enough to be able to see over the top of the Oval Office desk?
Most importantly, Olbermann then reminds us all just what the people insisting we should give Trump a chance are really saying: All we are saying is, give fascism a chance.
Who knows, it might not be as bad as we think.
It might not be a bottomless pit.
After that, the bombastic host lays out his best zinger yet, though he is completely serious: We do not have time for the White House edition of Celebrity Apprentice starring President-elect P*ssy-grabber.
Olbermann does warn against any crazy and/or illegal tactics, though, saying: I do not want violence, I m not proposing the overthrow of the government by any means other than legal and political.
I think protests should be limited to Washington, Trump Tower and the Trump hotels.
I have no pie-in-the-sky plan to have the Electoral College alter the outcome somehow, I will even acquiesce to a President Pence just get this man out of here.
Keith Olbermann is right.
We need the truth here, and the truth is that this is how fascim takes over.
We cannot allow Trump to become normalized, and we cannot, not for a second, treat him as any sort of legitimate president.
To do so is to see the end of democracy as we know it.Mr.
Olbermann, I salute you, and I proudly join your resistance to Donald Trump.Here is the must watch video, and I urge you to subscribe to the GQ YouTube channel, where The Resistance will be a regular series to help us all navigate the Donald Trump fascist rule.
[ad3media campaign= 1356 ]Featured image via video screen capture