On Thursday, Hillary Clinton ripped Donald Trump and his bigoted administration apart for being on the wrong side of history and refusing to defend LGBT rights and while she was at it, she showed conservatives just what they missed out on by letting a former reality television star get into the White House instead of a well-qualified politician.At a fundraiser for LGBT community organization The Center, Clinton received an award and gave a speech in which she thanked her audience for their continued support.
However, her message came with a chilling warning about the Trump administration as she said the progress that we fought for, that many of you were on the front lines for.
It may not be as secure as we once expected.
Clinton blasted Trump: We may not ever be able to count on this administration to lead on LGBT issues.
Then, she couldn t resist rattling off several of the things Trump has been doing to directly attack and weaken the LGBT community.
She said: When this administration rescinded protections for transgender students, my heart broke.
When I learned about the proposed cuts in funding for HIV and AIDS research, I thought about all of our efforts to try and achieve an AIDS-free generation.
Some of the changes that we re seeing should seem small, but they matter a great deal if you re the person affected.
Others carry historic significance, like the future of the Supreme Court.
While Clinton was not always a supporter of same-sex marriage, she had changed her tone several years ago and has been a powerful ally since.
In her usual classy way, she called on Americans to stick together and unite to protect human rights and resist homophobia.
Clinton said: I know the election hit a lot of us hard.
I can tell you this: Even when it feels tempting to pull the covers over your heads, please keep going.
Clinton s skilled and powerful delivery is something that Trump could only dream to emulate one day.
Despite having lost the election to Trump, the majority of Americans still love and support Clinton, as Trump s approval rating plummets by the day.
The support for her message shows that America no longer supports the values of the GOP any longer, and that conservatives have made a major mistake by putting Trump in the White House.You can watch Clinton s speech below: Featured image via Drew Angerer and Mark Wilson / Getty Images