Pew Research Center, which conducts not just domestic but also international polls, released their newest findings with regards to President Obama and how the world sees him (more specifically, their confidence in him that he will do the right thing).Not surprisingly, it turns out that most of the world loves our president and has the utmost confidence in him.
Take that, Republicans who call him weak in the eyes of the world.After gathering information from 40 states across six continents, a median of 65 percent say they have confidence in Obama to do the right thing and 27 percent do not.These are the top 10 countries that have the highest rating for President Obama:The president s approval rating has also skyrocketed in India, from a dismal 48 percent in 2014 to 74 percent now.
The lowest approval rating Obama has in Africa is 65 percent, but it is important to remember African citizens loved President Bush as well.When President Bush left the White House in January 2009, western European confidence in America s president reached an all-time low, with some countries giving W. less than 10 percent approval.
Today, western Europe remains inspired by our nation s president (unless you count Russia, where only 11 percent approve of him).Although the president has seen a slightly lower approval rating recently than when he entered the presidency in 2009, it should be noted that besides his sharp decline with Russia, he also has drastically declined in Israel.
Just last year, his approval rating was a soaring 71 percent (Republicans ignored this while accusing him of hating Israel), and this year his approval rating has fallen to 49 percent.So Israel isn t too thrilled with him and Russia absolutely despises him.
Other than that, the world loves him.
In the U.S., the poll found that 58 percent of Americans feel he can do the right thing and have confidence in his ability to do so.
Not too shabby considering (yet again), Republicans say the people hate him.
The only other countries that seem to have no confidence in him are Jordan, Pakistan, Venezuela, the Palestinian Territory, and Argentina.If the world loves President Obama, I can only imagine how much they ll love Bernie or Hillary.America, let s not wreck our standing internationally for God s sake, we don t need President Trump coming in and making the world hate us (again).
Featured image by Ashley Landis-Pool/Getty Images