We can t say enough bad things about rape apologist Mike Cernovich but Donald Trump Jr. thinks he s awesome.
Cernovich is a major troll on Twitter and he s also promoted the insane Pizzagate conspiracy theory in which he and other right-wing nutbags allege that Hillary Clinton and John Podesta run a child slave ring in the basement of Comet Ping Pong in Washington, D.C. Oh, by the way, I ve been there and there is no basement in the pizzeria.And then there was the time a comedian made fun of Cernovich on Twitter, so the conspiracy theorist Snowflake retaliated by suggesting that he was a child molester.
In a now-deleted tweet, Cernovich wrote, Have you guys ever tried raping a girl without using force?
Try it.
It s basically impossible.
Date rape does not exist.
He also says that black women should be slut-shamed so they won t get AIDS.
He s that kind of a guy.
He s part of the Alt-Right (cough, cough, neo-nazis).Cernovich also circulated the conspiracy theory that Hillary Clinton has Parkinson s while offering no evidence to back that up.
Quite simply: He s a dick with no balls.Clinton is fading now, she can't last longer than 90 minutes, Parkinson's drugs wearing off.
#DebateNight Mike Cernovich ??
(@Cernovich) October 20, 2016So naturally, Trump Jr. is praising Mike Cernovich after the conspiracy theorist penned a story titled, Susan Rice Requested Unmasking of Incoming Trump Administration Officials.
For the record, experts say that it s within Rice s rights to request that names be unmasked where there s some intelligence value.
But forget the experts!
Trump Jr. has a batshit crazy conspiracy theorist on his Dad s side!Junior thinks Cernovich should win a Pulitzer for his unbiased journalism.
Congrats to @Cernovich for breaking the #SusanRice story.
In a long gone time of unbiased journalism he'd win the Pulitzer, but not today!
Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) April 4, 2017And like his Dad, Junior is screaming fake news because why not.Should have gone to CNN that way she would get the Qs in advance who am I kidding they were never going to ask a real question?
#fakenews https://t.co/m6ATjfJJOO Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) April 4, 2017Cernovich penned an article in 2012 titled When In Doubt Whip It Out.
And Donald Trump Jr. s father will go down in history as a pussy grabbing narcissist who, like Cernovich, promotes baseless conspiracy theories.
We re starting to see a pattern here.And to add to the irony, the alleged president announced April to be Sexual Assault and Awareness and Prevention Month -and Trump s son just praised a rape apologist.Photo by David Becker/Getty Images.