The same conservatives who have attacked President Obama over the last eight years really liked his speech on Wednesday night.When President Obama spoke in support of Hillary Clinton during the DNC Convention, he extended an olive branch to conservatives who are dissatisfied with Donald Trump as the Republican nominee.
Look, we Democrats have always had plenty of differences with the Republican Party, and there s nothing wrong with that, Obama said before reaching out to those who are #NeverTrump.
It s precisely this contest of ideas that pushes our country forward.
But what we heard in Cleveland last week wasn t particularly Republican and it sure wasn t conservative.
What we heard was a deeply pessimistic vision of a country where we turn against each other, and turn away from the rest of the world.
There were no serious solutions to pressing problems just the fanning of resentment, and blame, and anger, and hate.
President Obama then stressed unity along with the themes of patriotism and our Founding Fathers.
And he even mentioned Ronald Reagan.
And that is not the America I know.
The America I know is full of courage, and optimism, and ingenuity.
The America I know is decent and generous I see Americans of every party, every background, every faith who believe that we are stronger together black, white, Latino, Asian, Native American; young, old; gay, straight; men, women, folks with disabilities, all pledging allegiance, under the same proud flag, to this big, bold country that we love.
Ronald Reagan called America a shining city on a hill.
Donald Trump calls it a divided crime scene that only he can fix.The reason he ll lose it is because he s selling the American people short.
We re not a fragile people.
We re not a frightful people.
Our power doesn t come from some self-declared savior promising that he alone can restore order as long as we do things his way.
We don t look to be ruled.
Our power comes from those immortal declarations first put to paper right here in Philadelphia all those years ago: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that We the People, can form a more perfect union.
And because many Republicans are starting to wake up and realize what their own party has become, they praised President Obama s speech.National Review columnist Rich Lowery was stunned because he seems to think patriotism and the founding documents are trademarked Republican beliefs.American exceptionalism and greatness, shining city on hill, founding documents, etc they re trying to take all our stuff Rich Lowry (@RichLowry) July 28, 2016Erick Erickson of Redstate couldn t believe how much he enjoyed it.
I disagree with the President on so much policy and his agenda, but appreciate the hope and optimism in this speech.
Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) July 28, 2016The GOP offered a vision of doom, despair, and division.
Tonight the President I think divides us offered optimism.
I hate this year.
Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) July 28, 2016Republican strategist Rory Cooper thought the speech was great and slammed his own party for making it easy for Obama by nominating Trump.
Great speech.
And we made it easy for him.
Rory Cooper (@rorycooper) July 28, 2016This conservative was shocked to hear President Obama defend conservatives from Trump.Still stunned.
Feel like I m in the twilight zone.
Obama just defended America & conservative values from attacks by the Republican nominee.
(((AG))) (@AG_Conservative) July 28, 2016Jeb Bush campaign staffer Tim Miller said that Republicans just lost an entire generation of voters.
Will a Trump apologist explain to me why an 18 yo watching the conventions would want to be a Republican?
We re giving away a generation Tim Miller (@Timodc) July 28, 2016Former Reagan speechwriter John Podhoretz appreciated the nod to his former boss.Take about five paragraphs out of that Obama speech and it could have been a Reagan speech.
Trust me.
I know.
John Podhoretz (@jpodhoretz) July 28, 2016While they praised President Obama s speech, they all still hate him and the progressive policies he supports.
Of course, these Republicans conveniently ignore that many of the policies President Obama has pursued throughout his two terms were ideas that their party once supported, especially Obamacare.
But the consensus is clear.
Donald Trump preaches hate and division while President Obama delivered the speech Republicans only wish their nominee would have done.
Thank God the President had the grace on that stage last night to point out that Donald Trump is neither a Republican nor a conservative, Erick Erickson wrote on Thursday.
I am glad that even the President is not willing to tar and feather my party with Trump, despite my party s willingness to commit political suicide.
Featured Image: Pete Sousa