Fox News banshee Jeanine Pirro threw a hissy fit this weekend because First Lady Michelle Obama correctly stated how most people feel since Donald Trump became president-elect.On Friday, Mrs. Obama sat down for her final interview as First Lady with Oprah Winfrey and expressed what millions of Americans are feeling right now as President Obama enter the last month of his presidency.
We feel the difference now, she said.
See, now, we are feeling what not having hope feels like.
Hope is necessary.
It s a necessary concept and Barack didn t just talk about hope because he thought it was just a nice slogan to get votes.
Indeed, the only ones who didn t feel hope in 2008 were conservatives who vowed from day one to sabotage President Obama at every turn, hurling racism and hate every step of the way for the last eight years.
But even more Americans are going to sorely miss him and the optimism he brought to the office.
Donald Trump, however, is no Barack Obama.
As Trump continues to hire people who hate the department they have been picked to head and picks fights with foreign nations and is poised to dismantle every program that made this country great already, millions of Americans are horrified and living in fear of what this nation is about to become.Of course, Pirro had a problem with Michelle Obama telling the truth, so she lashed out at her for five minutes by blaming her for everything from beheadings in the Middle East to protests against police.Basically, Pirro bitched about Michelle Obama in every little way and acted like a petulant child.
To try and convince America that once you and Barack exit the White House, hope is removed for America is an outrage, Pirro whined.
But I get it, for you hope is gone.
You and your family and friends won t be able to fly to another 46 countries, with security and hair and make-up in tow.
Michelle, you may not realize it, but Americans rejected you and everything you stand for.
Hope is when people 30,000 at a time stand in line in the cold with their children hoping to get a glimpse of a man they think can change the course of their lives from the downward spiral that you and Mister Hope and Change have put them on.
Here s the video via YouTube.Of course, Americans did not reject the Obamas in this election at all.
In fact, Obama s approval rating is higher than Trump s and millions would have preferred voting for him a third time.
Also, Russia helped Trump steal the election and Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by nearly three million votes.
Most Americans also fear a Trump presidency.
Someone should explain to Pirro that fear is the opposite of hope.As someone who claims to support women s rights, one would think Pirro would also be concerned about Trump being in the White House considering the way he has treated women over the years.
Pirro is also pro-choice, which goes against Republicans who currently aim to eliminate Roe v. Wade in the next four years.
So women across the country have every reason and right to be losing hope since their freedom could be seriously restricted.
But apparently, Pirro forgot about women and the plight they are about to face.Once again, Pirro is demonstrating that she s a racist bitch who hates successful women for speaking their minds and telling the truth.Featured Image: Screenshot