Presidential elections are won by well-prepared, well organized multimillion dollar efforts that are executed at the state level.
Some of the best models of this have been President Bush s campaign in 2004 and President Obama s campaigns in 2008 and 2012.
What needs to be done and how it should be done are known by seasoned campaign operatives and candidates who put the people in place to make it happen.Donald Trump s presidential campaign, and the Republican Party s planning to help his campaign in multiple states that are key to winning, are a complete disaster with only four months to go until the election, according to a new report from the Associated Press.With early voting beginning in less than three months in some states, the review reveals that the national GOP has delivered only a fraction of the ground forces detailed in discussions with state leaders earlier in the year.
And that is leaving anxious local officials waiting for reinforcements to keep pace with Democrat Hillary Clinton in the states that matter most in 2016.The Republican Party s massive failure gets even worse when you zoom in to swing states, as the Associated Press has:Some examples of Republican shortfalls: Ohio Republicans thought they were going to see 220 paid staffers by May; in reality there are about 50.
Plans for Pennsylvania called for 190 paid staffers; there are about 60.
Iowa s planned ground force of 66 by May actually numbers between 25 and 30.
In Colorado, recent staff departures have left about two dozen employees, far short of the 80 that were to have been in place.AP even found that Trump s headquarters in Florida, one of the most important states in the fight for the electoral college, was closed and its voice mailbox full.
Florida has 29 electoral votes and in 2012 was decided by a margin of 0.87 percent on the ground organizing is key to winning it.These failures at the state organizing level don t even take into account the massive disparity in campaign advertising between Clinton and Trump.
While she has been pumping out ads in important states like Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, Colorado, and New Mexico along with super PACs that support her, Trump hasn t been advertising at all.
In 2012, Mitt Romney s campaign was outspent by President Obama, but he was actually spending money Trump isn t spending on much, besides many of his own entities who showed up as campaign vendors.Republicans, especially in 2012, derided President Obama s background as a community organizer, but they could do with one right now to organize for their candidate in the communities he needs in order to have a chance at winning.
That doesn t seem to be happening.Featured image via Flickr