Madonna just called out Donald Trump s privileged sons and it s EPIC.The Republican nominee s sons Eric and Donald Jr. often go hunting for sport because that s what rich white assholes do with their spare time.In 2011, the douchy duo went on a safari and killed a majestic leopard that they held up like a trophy while getting their picture taken.
They then posted the image on the Internet to brag about their kill because apparently they think killing an animal that is decreasing in overall population somehow makes them men.Well, Madonna has seen the picture and she is NOT impressed and she really only had one word to describe Trump s little boys.
How Big of [a] Pussy Do you have to BE to kill this Noble Animal for sport?
Madonna wrote on Instagram along with the photo.
Just ask Donald Trump Jr and his brother Eric.
Then she endorsed Hillary Clinton because she doesn t need to shoot animals to prove how tough she is.How Big of.
Pussy Do you have to BE to kill this Noble Animal for sport?
Just ask Donald Trump Jr and his brother Eric.
One more reason to vote for Hilary!
??
?A photo posted by Madonna (@madonna) on Aug 31, 2016 at 11:23pm PDTAs mentioned above, the leopard population is decreasing and the species has been designated as vulnerable by the World Conservation Union, so the Trump s hunt is definitely something worth being enraged about.
After all, we are witnessing a decline of many of the world s animal species and these two assholes are contributing to the problem.In addition, the brothers have killed elephants, which is an endangered species facing a catastrophic decline.
And that s just the tip of the iceberg since there are photos of many other animals they have killed.
Law enforcement might want to make sure two aren t serial killers, because killing animals is how that usually starts.
Instead of spending their daddy s money on killing sprees, perhaps they should spend the money on making sure these animals are here for future generations to enjoy.
But that would be asking a lot of these heartless pricks.Featured image via The Mirror