With the Democratic nomination wrapping up in Hillary Clinton s favor, the question remains what role Senator Bernie Sanders will play heading into the convention in Philadelphia.
Trailing in the delegate support and popular vote support, Sanders undoubtedly has mastered a great chunk of clout that the Democrats will need to tap into if they hope to beat Donald Trump or long-shot candidate Ted Cruz.While the Sanders campaign has remained unwavering in their determination to win California, a power house in delegates and popular voters, they have accepted their path to the nomination is almost all but impossible.
However, the campaign has found a way to make their lasting presence within the Democratic Party: the national platform.And Hillary Clinton, who is having to fight to pick up Sanders supporters, is prepared to offer an olive branch of solidarity to work together.
Appearing on CNN with Jake Tapper, the frontrunner said she welcomes working with Sanders to implement a progressive platform: I certainly look forward to working with Sen. Sanders in the lead-up to the convention in the lead-up to the platform that will represent the Democratic Party.
It will be a progressive platform.
I ve run on a progressive agenda.
I really welcome his ideas and his passion and commitment, because the most important thing is winning in November.
Sanders has called on the Democratic Party to implement open-primaries, automatic voter registration, and a 50-state strategy to garner as many votes as possible.
Clinton has seemingly embraced some of these positions, and especially loved when Sanders told reporters his main priority in November is to make sure Donald Trump would not become President of the United States:There is no more important goal, and I was pleased when Sen. Sanders said the other day he s going to work tirelessly to make sure that Donald Trump was not president, and I really welcome that because that has to be our primary objective.As Clinton heads into the general, she will need to court Sanders most ardent supporters.
Extending an olive branch to work with Sanders is a smart move on Clinton s part, and will ensure a unified party.Featured image via Joe Readle/Getty Images