Senator Elizabeth Warren took to Twitter to cheer the failure of the Republicans first attempt at replacing the disastrous Obamacare.
She went on to lie to her followers saying she wasn t doing a touchdown dance as long as the GOP is still hell-bent on rigging the system for the rich and powerful.
But I'm not doing a touchdown dance today.
Not when the GOP is still hell-bent on rigging the system for the rich & powerful.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) March 24, 2017Twitter user Chet Cannon posted a copy of a story exposing the truth about poor Elizabeth Warren who loves to call out the Republicans for supporting the rich and powerful (which is a actually pretty good description of Warren and her socialist friend the other whiny, wealthy Senator from Vermont, Bernie Sanders):.
@SenWarren "the rich & powerful" pic.twitter.com/n9CmeQe9Ar Chet Cannon (@Chet_Cannon) March 25, 2017Curt Schilling nailed it with his response to her tweet: You are everything wrong with this nation, every single thing.
A lying fraudulent system rigging insider.
@va_shiva in 18 Curt Schilling (@gehrig38) March 25, 2017Twitter user David Witty asks Warren why she doesn t use O-Care if it s so great?If O-care is so great, why don't you use it?
Instead you have diff plan and btw, you are rich and powerful.
Stop pretending.
David Witty (@davidwitty) March 25, 2017But it was Donald Trump Jr. who really hit the phony Elizabeth Warren hard with this truth bomb:Ha, you mean like someone who was paid almost $500,000.00 to "teach" one class a semester at Harvard?
#DoAsISayNotAsIDo https://t.co/8OpNksJQhl Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) March 25, 2017On a more hopeful note, it appears that radical leftist and fake Indian Elizabeth Warren may have a serious challenger in her next Senate race: Today, ShivaRatri, when Light overcame Darkness, we launched my campaign for US SENATE against @SenWarren.
Defend the American Dream!
Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) February 25, 2017V.A.
Shiva Ayyadurai, an Indian-American, will take on the only fake Indian in the US Senate, Elizabeth Warren.Shiva announced his candidacy last night at a private event hosted by Mike Cernovich and Jeff Giesea in suburban Maryland.