21st Century Wire says The mainstream media have gone to great lengths to hide obfuscate the following story.During an interview with CBS News on March 7, 2015, President Barack Obama claimed he only learned about Hillary Clinton s use of a private email server, the same time everybody else learned it through news reports.
Subsequent email leaks show, however, that Obama in fact lied when he said he didn t know Clinton used an unsecure private server.
According to the Daily Caller, newly released FBI documents show that: Obama used a pseudonym when communicating with then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton by email, and at least one of those emails ended up on Clinton s private email server.
This proves two things: not only did Obama break White House security protocol by carelessly trading private emails off grid with Hillary Clinton on a unsecured and unauthorized mail server but he also lied about it after the fact.
(NOTE: This would not have been as big of an issue for Obama had he simply not commented on the issue, or actually told the truth, but this is president who struggles on both those fronts) COVER-UP: Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI Director James Comey, and President Obama.This leads us to the FBI led by its director and elite fixer, James Comey, the FBI carefully whitewashed over the Clinton email case to protect the President.
Cleary, the FBI and the DOJ closed ranks to protect the President, but from what you might ask?
This is why: any communications made by the President of the United States are de facto labeled as born classified.
The same goes for any State Department communications with other foreign ministers.It also proves that Hillary Clinton is lied when she claimed that no classified emails lived on her private server.
They both lied.From the beginning of this scandal, at every turn it seems, the Democratic Party nominee has lied about having classified emails on her unauthorized private server, and this week we discover that one of her State Department operatives, Patrick Kennedy, tried to shield her culpability by asking the FBI to downgrade the classification of certain emails in exchange for quid pro quo political favors.Maybe it s an attitude certain people in Washington have (especially if they are the party in power), that they are above the law and not subject to the same rules as their lessers in Washington.
But the fact remains: both Clinton and Obama lied to the American people, but let off by a corrupt US media who appear to be more concerned about getting Clinton elected than holding any Washington s power elite accountable.According to Clinton though, all this is somehow Vladimir Putin s fault.
More on Obama s secret email accounts WikiLeaks reveals first batch of US president Barack Obama emails sent via secret address bobama@ameritech.com https://t.co/Ni95WAl8a6 WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) October 20, 2016RTWikileaks reveals first batch of emails involving US President Barack Obama.
Within those are emails sent from secret address used by the president.The first batch from Wikileaks are searchable under the email address bobama@ameritech.net, an email account Obama was possibly using before winning the election in November 2008.Among them is an email, dated October 30, 2008, from John Podesta to then-Senator Obama, with a confidential attachment, discussing an economic transition team, mapping out why Obama needs to get it up and running before his term begins in January 2009.
Paulson and his subordinates do not believe they can responsibly defer until after January 20 significant decisions concerning both the use of TARP funds and other potential stabilizing measures, it says.The latest batch of emails are culled from a series of deals involving Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta.
Podesta is a long-term associate of the Clintons and was President Bill Clinton s Chief of Staff from 1998 to 2001, and Hillary Clinton s campaign Chair.
Podesta also served as Counselor to President Barack Obama Continue this story at RTREAD MORE ELECTION NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire 2016 Files