North Carolina, which is still butthurt over the Supreme Court s decision not to allow their voter suppression law to go into effect before the election, is getting a touch creative with their reasons not to allow early voting.
What if a person votes, and then dies?We wish we were making this up.Alas, though, we aren t. Dallas Woodhouse, North Carolina s GOP executive director, tried his best to sound extremely worried about this non-existent crisis when he spoke to Fox 8 about it: We have a situation here where you have to be alive on Election Day.
If you vote early, you still have to be alive in a very close race you could literally have dead people voting.
We have a situation here.
Har de har har.
Dead people voting has been one of the GOP s drumbeats regarding voter fraud for a long time, and, of course, on their planet, voter fraud actually only occurs when Democrats are able to vote.
Early voting is one of those areas, but absentee voting, for some reason, isn t.Gee, could it be because the majority of people who cast absentee ballots in North Carolina are white, elderly and Republican?
The majority of people who cast ballots during early voting are primarily minority and Democrat.
From a reasonable perspective, if North Carolina were really worried about dead people voting, they should be targeting absentee voting, not early voting.North Carolina does have a law requiring that voters be alive on Election Day for their votes to be counted, even if they cast an early or absentee ballot.
There are, however, contingencies in effect should someone who voted early die before Election Day.
They re outlined by North Carolina Board of Elections general counsel Josh Lawson, below: All early voting is done on retrievable ballots, he said.
If a person dies, the county board of elections is notified by the Social Security Administration or the Registrar of Deeds.
They have a pretty good system for tracking deaths.
When we become aware of it, we remove that ballot.'
North Carolina is busy what-iffing itself off the edge of the sanity cliff here.
With each comment, they increasingly prove that their voter suppression law was all about suppressing the minority vote.Featured image by Sara D. Davis/Getty Images