On Tuesday, the world was treated to an awesome video of a woman absolutely reaming Florida Governor Rick Scott at a Gainsville Starbucks.
Now, we finally get to hear what he had to say about the woman who prevented him from getting his latte and it is absolutely baffling.In the viral video, Cara Jennings yelled (in part), You don t care about working people.
You should be ashamed to show your face around here, at the governor.She s not wrong, Scott has done many, many horrible things to the people of his state.
He refused to expand Medicaid to nearly a million of the state s working poor.
He changed hospital rules for one of his donors who ran a medical center with an extremely high infant mortality rate.
He has attacked women at every turn, most recently with an unconstitutional anti-abortion bill.On Wednesday, Governor Scott s office issued a statement saying: People with radical views tend to not like civil debate.
A self-proclaimed anarchist rudely yelled and cursed at the Governor.
She also refused to Pledge Allegiance to the flag.
It s a free country, but it s not at all surprising that an anarchist prefers shouting over conversation.
What?
That s his response?
Jennings didn t stand for the Pledge, seriously?Jennings, a former Lake Worth city commissioner, was asked what she thinks of Scott s bizarre allegations and she said that sometimes she recited it, sometimes she didn t: I was never disrespectful about it, but I was never an avid Pledge leader, she said.
But I don t know how that bears any impact on if I critique his policies or not.
How is it relevant if I say the Pledge?
It has absolutely nothing to do with her critiques of his policies, but he is doing what Republicans often do when confronted: he s deflecting.
Scott is not the kind of guy who feels like he should ever have to answer for anything he does.
A prime example of this was when his former company Columbia/HCA defrauded the federal government out of millions of dollars with the biggest Medicare fraud in history and when he was asked about it, he invoked the 5th Amendment 75 times.So, his current deflection is, really, just more of the same from Florida s biggest mistake.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images