Prior to the election, one of the things that Trump kept harping on was how the DNC gave Hillary debate questions in advance.
He claimed to have solid evidence of that, and so did conspiracy sites that purported to be able to see what Hillary was staring at on her podium for one of the debates.
It seems, though, that Trump s gripe was less-than legitimate even more so than most of his gripes throughout the campaign.This kind of thing is only a problem if it could hurt him.
When it benefits him, everyone should have at.
But we knew that.
What many probably didn t know is that the accusations he insisted on lobbing during the final stretch up to the disastrous Nov. 8 election were incredibly, amazingly, astonishingly, astoundingly hypocritical.Megyn Kelly s new book, Settle For More, details out a lot of what Trump did to her during the primaries.
But that s not all.
The New York Times review of her book says: The day before the first presidential debate, Mr. Trump was in a lather again, Ms. Kelly writes.
He called Fox executives, saying he d heard that her first question was a very pointed question directed at him.
This disconcerted her, because it was true: It was about his history of using disparaging language about women.
The day before.
Now how did he know what Kelly was going to ask, we wonder?
Could it be that someone at Fox leaked the debate questions to him?
There s no other way for him to know that.Throughout the last 17 months, the accusations Trump leveled at his enemies were things he himself was guilty of.
Following the third general election debate, he was adamant about exposing alleged treachery on the part of the DNC and Hillary.
His claim was that she d gotten the debate questions in advance, while he was kept in the dark.
We have to ask Trump, Project, much?
Then again, projection is what he does.But that s not all Settle For More also contains this tidbit: On the day of the debate, Ms. Kelly writes, she woke up feeling great.
Then an overzealous, suspiciously enthusiastic driver picked her up to take her to the convention center.
He insisted on getting her coffee, though she d repeatedly declined his offer.
Once it was in her hand, she drank it.
And within 15 minutes, she was violently ill, vomiting so uncontrollably that it was unclear if she d be able to go on and help moderate that evening.
It was so bad that she kept a trash pail beneath her desk throughout the debate, just in case.
Was Trump trying to poison her in advance of the debate?
She doesn t say, and The New York Times wisely leaves that up to the reader to determine.
Regardless, it s suspicious and entirely typical of a man like Trump he will stop at nothing to get revenge on his enemies.
And the Electoral College will put this man in the White House.Photo of Megyn Kelly by Neilson Barnard via Getty Images for Hollywood Reporter.
Photo of Trump by Zach Gibson via Getty Images