Kim Kardashian West just went through a hellish nightmare while in Paris, France as she visited for fashion week.
She was allegedly tied up and held at gunpoint while being robbed of not only her cell phones and purse but also millions of dollars worth of jewelry.
The robbers disguised themselves as police officers, so one can only imagine she was completely taken off guard.Taking no time at all to mock Kardashian after everything she s gone through was none other than the National Rifle Association (NRA).
They took to Twitter and decided to go on a rampage of their own to try to make what one can only assume is some form of point.They tweeted:Wait, criminals held @KimKardashian at gunpoint in Paris?
How is that possible?
Does anyone know if they passed a background check first?
NRA (@NRA) October 3, 2016It's shocking that these criminals did not subject themselves to Paris' strict #guncontrol laws before committing this awful crime.
NRA (@NRA) October 3, 2016Stronger gun laws like the ones they have in Paris?
#askingforafriend https://t.co/xHUhViDtpN NRA (@NRA) October 3, 2016Kardashian herself is a strong proponent of common sense gun reform and has been very vocal in her advocacy for new laws.
Having lunch with the families of loved ones who were killed by gun violence.
I learned a lot from listening to their stories.
Life is so precious!
What will it take for this to stop?
#NotOneMore #Everytown #MomsDemandA photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Aug 5, 2016 at 5:20pm PDTWas this why the NRA decided to make her a target of mockery?
Who knows?
Probably.
They love to pretend they can point out irony, but in reality, they are just proving themselves to be the insensitive jerks that they ve grown to be over the years.Gun laws will never stop all criminals.
However, common sense gun reform here in the United States and everywhere will most definitely save lives.Who s to say how these robbers gained access to the guns they had or to Kardashian herself?
The important thing is that she s alive and no matter how much was stolen, nothing is more valuable than life.Featured Photo by Andreas Rentz/Getty Images, Twitter