Federal authorities have no intention of killing the Bundy brothers and their traitorous followers.
They d rather arrest them and put them behind bars.Thus far, the federal government has been incredibly tolerant of the armed white rednecks currently occupying a federal wildlife refuge building in Oregon.The militants would like to engage federal law enforcement in a firefight to the death, but seeing as how authorities are planning to cut electricity to the building and the fact that the men had to beg for supplies because they failed to prepare for the long haul, it won t be long before the cold winter and hunger force them to surrender.The FBI and Sheriff s office are counting the felonies and misdemeanors each member of the group has committed since the beginning of their stunt, and according to Harney County Sheriff David Ward, the FBI intends to arrest them and make them pay the consequences for their actions.
The bureau has assured me that those at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge will at some point face charges, Ward told Oregon Public Broadcasting on Tuesday.
He then warned the militant that things will only get worse for them the longer they refuse to surrender.
They have an opportunity right now to work towards a better solution, and not face further charges, he said.Indeed, right now the group faces charges of sedition and treason against the United States.
In addition, they also face charges for breaking and entering, carrying guns on federal property, and trespassing, just to name a few.If found guilty of a felony, they would also be departed from the ones they love the most their guns.So while the federal government isn t going in with guns blazing, they are taking steps to end the pathetic little rebellion and are waiting to place each domestic terrorist in shiny metal bracelets.To help speed up the process, Sheriff Ward also pleaded for people to stop sending supplies to the militants.
I think if one person gives them a Snickers bar, they re going on national media and claiming that the community supports them.
If you re giving them support, you re just prolonging the situation.
Here s the audio via Oregon Public Broadcasting.It s been a rough week for Bundy and his buddies.
Not only have they been roundly condemned by Democrats and Republicans alike, they can t even catch a break from Fox News and have been mercilessly mocked across the country, becoming a national punchline.For now, all we can do is wait for Bundy and crew tuck their tails between their legs and surrender to see if the FBI keeps their word that they will face charges for their crimes.
Until then, let the mockery continue.Featured Image: Wise Geek