Apparently, in Donald Trump s America, you can t even be nice to someone if your skin is darker than a piece of chalk.
After he was elected, we saw a spike in hate crimes that would make anyone especially people who already faced discrimination beforehand, nervous.On Sunday that s the Christmas that Donald Trump says he saved if you re keeping score Ijan DaVonte, a black transgender man, decided to show some holiday spirit by offering his seat to a woman who was entering his train car.
While most would view this as an act of generosity especially at almost midnight on Christmas Stephanie Pazmino decided that she was offended by someone being nice to her.
I don t want to sit next to a black person, were the words that came out of her mouth, according to police.
I got up anyway and said to her that she didn t have to sit next to me, said Jarrett, who had just gotten done working his shift as a hair stylist.
I took a seat across from her and just forgot all about it.
When Pazmino got up to leave the train, a simple insult became much, much worse when she began punching Jarrett.
It was not until later when another man rushed to his aid that he realized that Pazmino had slashed his face and stabbed him in the arm with a 2-inch knife.
She stabbed me right under my left eye, on the back of my hand and on my left arm.
She was screaming and hollering the whole time, he recalled.
I ran to the ticket booth to ask the attendant to call the police, she stated that she did and that I should sit down.
And I passed out after that, Jarrett said.
He was transported to Harlem Hospital where he was treated and is in stable condition, according to PIX11.
Pazmino was arrested and charged with a hate crime.Jarrett says he doesn t know if he was targeted because he is transgender, as well, though the racial component is bad enough.
I don t know why she did it because I didn t do anything to provoke her, Jarrett says.Unfortunately, we re going to be seeing more of this with Donald Trump as president.
At this point, it s safe to assume that if you are a group that regularly faces discrimination, you are in danger always.Featured image via screengrab