Miami s mayor decided to jump into the discussion about whether climate change is the reason for the severe weather He says that Hurricane Irma is the poster child for global warming.
The problem with that is that history tells us that this isn t anything new and that Miami s history tells you it s natural for a swampy place to get water Here s a great take on the history of swampy Florida:A Requiem for Florida, the Paradise That Should Never Have BeenAs Hurricane Irma prepares to strike, it s worth remembering that Mother Nature never intended us to live here.In 1926, a few weeks after the Miami Herald urged its readers not to worry about hurricanes because there is more risk to life from venturing across a busy street, a Category 4 storm flattened Miami, killing 400 and abruptly ending the coastal boom.Then in 1928, another Category 4 storm blasted Lake Okeechobee through its flimsy dike, killing 2,500 and abruptly ending the Everglades boom.
It was the second-deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history, and afterward Florida s attorney general testified before Congress that much of the southern half of his state might be unsuited to human habitation.
Read more: Michael GrunweldAnd they kept coming.
Twenty-five years ago, Hurricane Andrew ripped through Miami MIAMI S MAYOR CALLS IRMA THE POSTER CHILD FOR GLOBAL WARMINGMiami s Republican mayor called on President Donald Trump and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency Friday to acknowledge that climate change is playing a role in the extreme weather that has slammed his city and the continental U.S. this summer.Speaking from Miami s Emergency Operations Center in downtown, where the city s senior public safety and political authorities will ride out Category 4 Hurricane Irma this weekend, Mayor Tom s Regalado told the Miami Herald that he believes warming and rising seas are threatening South Florida s immediate and long-term future.
This is the time to talk about climate change.
This is the time that the president and the EPA and whoever makes decisions needs to talk about climate change, said Regalado, who flew back to Miami from Argentina Friday morning to be in the city during the storm.
If this isn t climate change, I don t know what is.
This is a truly, truly poster child for what is to come.
Read more here: Miami Herald