Just last year before the 2016 presidential election, conservative radio host and former Colorado Republican chairman Steve Curtis said, It seems to me that virtually every case of voter fraud I can remember in my lifetime was committed by Democrats.
The state s prosecutors on Tuesday accused Curtis, 57, of voter fraud for allegedly filling out and mailing in his ex-wife s 2016 ballot for president, KDVR reports.Curtis has been charged with one count of misdemeanor voter fraud and one count of forgery.The Washington Post reports:The case is the only voter fraud investigation related to the 2016 election that has resulted in criminal charges in the state, the Colorado secretary of state s office told Denver s ABC affiliate.Curtis has not entered a plea.
If convicted, he could face more than a year of prison time and a $5,000 fine.Watch: His ex-wife, Kelly Curtis, said, I was livid over the whole situation, definitely.
Curtis said that she left her husband after being married for just nine months.
I didn t feel it was an equal partnership, I ll just leave it at that, she said.
It was demeaning and presumptuous, and I had no idea what would go on in someone s mind to cast my ballot for me illegally, actually to go to all the trouble to forge my ballot, Ms. Curtis said.The forgery was discovered by Weld County prosecutors when Kelly Curtis called the county s Elections Office in October to ask how she could vote because she had just moved to South Carolina and explained that she was still registered to vote in Colorado.
Kelly was told by an election worker that she had already voted by mail and the elections office already had her ballot.
I was just completely stunned.
I thought there had to be some kind of mistake, Kelly Curtis said.In 2011, Steve Curtis oversaw the advisory board for the Denver Tea Party Patriots.While on the campaign trail, Donald Trump alleged that the election would be rigged and claimed that there was widespread voter fraud.
Without offering evidence just as with his recent wiretap claims Trump said after the election that between 3 to 5 million votes were cast illegally.
Trump said that to prove that he really won the popular vote (he did not win the popular vote).Following the election, it was found that the few who were charged with voter fraud, were in fact, Republican voters.As for Steve Curtis, he certainly excels at projection.Image via screen capture.