Want evidence that Fox News is a functional mouthpiece for the Trump administration?
On Monday, the most watched news network in America lied to you.
While it may see shocking that an American news agency would push blatant lies, they seem to have had a direct source the Trump White House.White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer kicked off his press conference by claiming (falsely) that the attacker was both a Muslim and from Morocco.
It s a terrible reminder of why we must remain vigilant and why the President is taking steps to be proactive rather than reactive when it comes to our nation s safety and security, Spicer said at this afternoon s briefing when speaking of the Quebec City attack.Fox News reported the same information despite that it was never confirmed, tweeting it out in an almost celebratory fashion:Naturally, things got a bit embarrassing for the network and Spicer, who is already dealing with the aftermath of saying that it s not only right but necessary to handcuff 5-year-old Muslim children and treat them like terrorists when information surfaced that he wasn t from Morocco or a Muslim.
In fact, he s a huge fan of Donald J. Trump:The actual shooting suspect is 27-year-old Alexandre Bissonnette, a white French Canadian who is, by all appearances, a rabid anti-immigrant nationalist.
A leader of a local immigration rights groups, Fran ois Deschamps, told a local paper he recognized his photo as an anti-immigrant far-right troll who has been hostile to the group online.
And Bisonnette s Facebook page now taken down but still archived lists among its likes the far right French nationalist Marine Le Pen, Islam critics Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, the Israeli Defense Forces, and Donald J. Trump (he also likes the liberal Canadian Party NDP along with more neutral likes such as Tom Hanks, the Sopranos and Katy Perry).Fox News responded by changing a few lines in their original report and never actually issuing a retraction or apology.
In fact, as of 7:06 P.M. EST, the tweet is still live:Suspect in Quebec mosque terror attack was of Moroccan origin, reports show https://t.co/oRzxGHEXDm pic.twitter.com/aEsEtccMvi Fox News (@FoxNews) January 30, 2017While it is true that police did question a Moroccan man, the guy was a worshiper and a witness to the attack not a suspect as conservatives have been saying.
In fact, as the person who called the cops in the first place, he was never treated by police as anything other than a witness.
Conservative media, on the other hand, just went with it.Naturally, Fox News, Spicer, and all who believed their wacky story found themselves facing, well, quite a bit of mockery for this desperate attempt to blame the deadly attack on Muslims:Fox News was only tryin' to be polite givin' the Moroccan suspect top billin'.
Bissonnette liked Trump and Le Pen on Facebook.
pic.twitter.com/S1a3tuQhwK Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) January 30, 2017The Moroccan man who people ran with as the suspect was actually a worshipper and witness.
I can't imagine what things are like for him.
Vann R. Newkirk II (@fivefifths) January 31, 2017@FoxNews You forgot the part about the suspect NOT being Moroccan but that's probably not fitting your narrative anyway.
Carry on, Faux.
Untamable Shrew (@bluesunshine43) January 31, 2017@FoxNews it is irresponsible and libelous to leave this tweet up.
The shooter was NOT Moroccan.
Read your own article!
Michelle (@mbrittmehlisch) January 31, 2017The actual shooter in Quebec is a white French Canadian who appears to be rabidly anti-immigrant nationalist.https://t.co/1thlfCohbo #altfax Hannah Lantos (@LantosH14) January 31, 2017In case u were misinformed by literally lying mainstream media saying the mosque shooter was Muslim Moroccan He's a white Trump supporter.
Mikhael (@mitchualdevice) January 30, 2017Alt-Right trolls & websites deleting those "Moroccan Muslim" hot takes: #QuebecShooting pic.twitter.com/LgGwrUzsGk #J20 (@Delo_Taylor) January 30, 2017This is the sort of honesty we can expect from the Trump White House and their propaganda outlets.
They took an innocent man who called the police during a terrifying attack that left six people dead, smeared him as the attacker, then did all they could to distract from the true perpetrator of the crime: someone just like them who genuinely believes in Donald Trump and his terrifying mission.Featured image via screengrab