One of the things that Trump wants to do over the next four years is continue to hold huge rallies for the purpose of stroking his ego.
Apparently, that s already getting underway.
He s planning to take a victory lap around the states he won sometime in the next several weeks, rather than working closely with his transition team to make sure as much is in place as possible before Inauguration Day.This will be a 30-state tour if he plans on visiting every state that voted for him.
Since the trip seems to be mostly for the purpose of visiting the states he won, it s hard not to see this as a giant middle finger to the states he lost, even though there are a number of voters in rural areas of blue states like Illinois who voted for him.It doesn t really jibe with his ongoing assertions that he will work every day for ALL Americans (shouldn t he be impossibly eager to get to down to business?).
In fact, it doesn t jibe with the idea that he ll do any work at all.The glow of winning a presidential election already seems to be wearing off he has to continually find ways of feeling superior and getting the instant gratification that these huge, cheering crowds give him.
And really, who wants to spend day after day in boring meetings with transitional staffers, members of Congress, security teams, the current President, and more when he can just be gone all the time, stroking his ego?
While some have spun his need for large rallies full of adoring fans as rubbing shoulders with the everyday American, it just doesn t seem like that s what Trump really wants to do.He has an ego the size of Russia.
It s not easy to quiet that, and his staff would rather kowtow to him than try and actually mold him into a real statesman.
He publicly admits that his life is going to change drastically, but what he s pushing his advisers and planners to do shows he s going to try and hold onto his old life as much as possible.Will he hold rallies in states he didn t carry?
Who knows.
He ll promise to, because to do otherwise would be to confirm that some people don t matter, even if they voted for him.
Will he actually do it, though?
It might actually depend on whether he thinks he can get the huge crowds he wants, which is totally what being president is all about.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images