Donald Trump s number one fangirl, Ann Coulter, believes we have a superior culture we must keep pure.
To that end, she thinks that small pockets of certain types of people in the U.S. are fine, so long as they don t overwhelm our wealthy, white, Christian, European culture.
Guess who else she said that about?
Jewish people.In an interview with BBC Radio 4, the following exchange took place: Americans don t want immigration, Coulter said, demanding a complete halt.
They don t want any more.
Why can t we have a home?
BBC interviewer James Naughtie challenged her: If someone had said that about Jewish immigration into New York a century ago, would you have approved of it?
Oh God, not the Jews again, the exasperated Coulter exclaimed.
That s like two percent of the population, she added.
That did not overwhelm our culture.'
Listen to her her put her bigotry on full display below: Why can t we have a home?
We do have a home.
That question makes absolutely no sense she acts like white Christians are being forced out.
Has that ever happened to a culture before?
Oh, wait, yes it has, when her vaunted white, Christian Europeans forced Native Americans out of their homes.Seeing as how Christianity was born from Judaism, and Jesus Christ himself was a Jew, she takes an odd position on Jews.
But Coulter is one of the worst bigots we ve got that s why she supports Donald Trump.
Despite her enduring love for him though, while Trump was talking about how Israel has no greater supporter than himself during one of the GOP debates last year, she tweeted, How many f ing Jews do these people think there are in the United States?
The implication is that she believes Jews have an outsized influence here.
She claims that s not the case, though; she was merely talking about how Republicans act like our Jewish population has an outsized influence.
She s not the anti-Semite here; or, at least, on her planet she s not an anti-Semite.That s in spite of the fact that she also said, at the time, that Republicans are merely pandering to the Jews.
Who is she pandering to, then?
Probably Donald Trump.She says anti-Semitic stuff fairly frequently, and then she puts on her walking contradiction costume when she defends herself: Anyone with a pulse knows I am pro-Israel and against the enemies of the Jewish people.
I have a whole chapter in my current book praising Israel and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
It s the people attacking me who couldn t care less about Israel or Jews.
She ll never admit she s said something sick and wrong.
That s probably another reason she s a Trump fangirl.
He doesn t admit when he s wrong, either.
Sure, the Jewish population here is okay, but she d want them deported in a nanosecond if their population exploded.
Her hateful, bigoted self needs the comfort of white, Christian Europeans all around her.
Everyone else is a threat.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images