A Michigan man just received a disturbing letter.
The letter alleges that he has violated his probation for threatening Michigan s Governor, Rick Snyder, on Facebook.In 2013, Chris Wahmhoff, of Kalamazoo, Michigan was arrested for protesting the rebuilding and expansion of a pipeline that ruptured in 2010, creating the largest inland oil spill in history.
In December 2014, Wahmoff was sentenced to probation, in lieu of a jail sentence.Wahmhoff received a letter from his probation officer, claiming that he has violated the terms of his probation on three counts.
The first count is for his failure to pay back restitution.
The second is for failing to provide his DNA for testing.
The third count is where things get quite disturbing.The letter says that he has violated his probation for allegedly threatening Rick Snyder.
The letter reads:Count 3: On 1.27.16 the defendant displayed threatening behavior on social media (Facebook) when he responded to a posting pertaining to the Governor of Michigan hiring two public relations firms in lieu of hiring to restore the infrastructure to provide clean water for Flint when he stated so when y all are ready to march in and take his ass across the street I have my torch, I got warm socks.
I m waiting on y all.
This is in no way a credible threat of violence.
In fact, it is actually quite tame compared to many of the things that have been posted about Snyder.
Cher caught wind of the situation going on in Flint, Michigan before the story had reached critical mass.
She called for Snyder to be put in front of a firing squad.
A Michigan militia has even taken sides against Snyder.WTF IS GOING ON W/POWERMAD,GREED DRIVEN,KILLER,INCOMPETENT,POLITICIANS?THEY R CRIMNALS GOV.RICK SNYDER OF MICH.#FIRINGSQUADWORKSFORME Cher (@cher) January 6, 2016Whether or not a Snyder and his cronies are found culpable for their role in the Flint water crisis, or not remains to be seen.
That being said, the people of Michigan well, people all over the U.S. and the world for that matter have already found Snyder to be guilty.
He has eroded democracy through his expansion of Michigan s emergency manager law.
He has poisoned an entire city.
At least ten people have already died from water contamination.
When people refer to Snyder as a baby killer, it is by no means an exaggeration.I spoke to Wahmhoff over the phone.
He says that he was publicly calling for a citizen s arrest of Rick Snyder.
Wahmhoff is emphatic that he does not think that people should go into the Capital building guns blazing.
He doesn t want any violence to come to Snyder.
He does, however, think he needs to be removed from office immediately.
Wahmhoff told Addicting Info: I never intended to call for violence against Rick Snyder..
But according to Michigan law 764.16 (b), I have the right to, and do intend to legally invoke the arrest of governor Rick Snyder for felonious child endangerment.
Not just for Flint, but for Detroit, for the Kalamazoo River, and for the children who will continue to suffer as long as Rick Snyder is in power.
The right-wing has usurped and bastardized the concept of government tyranny and the expulsion of tyrants, to the point where birthers think that President Obama should be removed from office by force.
Those people are insane.
I by no means support violence.
Though I have to say, I am sure that the founders of the United States would consider the Snyder administration a domestic threat.
As many have pointed out, the poisoning of an entire city s water supply is an act that any ISIS member would look upon with envy.There are mobs of people out there who actually would tear Rick Snyder to shreds, given the opportunity.
In light of that, the idea that someone would actually take a person s vague comment from Facebook seriously enough to consider it a violation of their probation, is absurd.
Especially when the person who made the comment is on probation for protesting a corporation that created the worst environmental disaster in Michigan s history not including the current crisis in Flint, of course.
Michigan activists are planning a protest, to stand in solidarity with Wahmhoff.
Featured Image Credit: Donkey Hotey via Flickr.
With letter screenshot added by Joe Fletcher.