Family doesn t complete you it destroys you?
Wow way to promote families Disney There s nothing like a one-hour promotion of Planned Parenthood (baby parts harvester for profit) from the corporation who owes their success to live children.
Anyone who supports the Disney Corporation should be asking them how they can market their amusement parks to live children, calling their parks the The happiest place on earth, when they openly glorify the killing of children on national TV?
Feel free to leave a comment by clicking this LINKWell, now that we ve gotten that out the way, we thought you might like to know who produces the show, Scandal:The Planned Parenthood abortion business ultimately praised the episode and actors on the show defended the decision to show the killing of an unborn baby in an abortion during the Christmas song.That the abortion giant loved the episode is no surprise given its content, but it s also no surprise since Scandal s creator and producer is on the board of directors of one of its affiliates.
As LifeNews blogger Ryan Bomberger pointed out on Twitter, Scandal creator Shonda Rimes sits on the baord of Planned Parenthood Los Angeles: The abortion episode was a natural for Rhimes: she previously showed her fondness for abortion by featuring it in her hit show, Grey s Anatomy.
In real life, she sits on the board of Planned Parenthood s Los Angeles affiliate; this is a curious decision for a black woman the organization was founded on racist principles, Donohue continued.
Why the need to play Silent Night while the kid is killed?
Rhimes is angry it s payback time.
She went to a Catholic high school where she was disciplined for wearing too-short skirts.
She never got over it.
Hence, her juvenile rebelliousness.
The composite picture isn t pretty it s a mess, he said.Rhimes has three daughters and no husband and she talked about that in an interview.
I have never wanted to get married.
I love having boyfriends.
I love dating.
I do not want a husband in my house, she said.Rhimes is no stranger to popular television programs.
She is the is the creator and currently executive producer and head writer of Grey s Anatomy and Rhimes created and produced the Grey s Anatomy spin-off series Private Practice Then, in 2011, ABC ordered Rhimes s pilot script Scandal to series.
Unfortunately, it appears Rhimes is committed to pushing her pro-abortion agenda in them.In an interview with Time last year, Rhimes said that televisions shows should tackle abortion because it is a polarizing issue: Because it is such a hot button issue, because people are debating it, it should be discussed.
And I m not sure why it s not being discussed.
ACTION: Click here to tell ABC to stop promoting abortion.Thursday night s episode of Shonda Rhimes s ABC series Scandal was an hour-long advertisement for Planned Parenthood so much so that the organization released a statement praising Rhimes and the episode immediately after it aired.In the fifth-season episode, titled Baby, It s Cold Outside, main character Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington), wife of the Republican U.S. President, undergoes an abortion while the Christmas hymn Silent Night plays in the background.
Concurrently, Republican Senator Mellie Grant (Bellamy Young) successfully filibusters a bill that would defund Planned Parenthood, allowing it to keep its funding.https://youtu.be/vnd7OxpRxN8The episode was so overtly pro-Planned Parenthood that the organization issued a statement immediately after it aired to praise Rhimes and the show for proving that when women are telling our stories, the world will pause and watch :Tonight, the millions of people who tune into Scandal every Thursday night learned that our rights to reproductive health care are under attack.
Never one to shy away from critical issues, Shonda Rhimes used her platform to tell the world that if Planned Parenthood lost funding for contraception counseling, STI testing, cancer screenings, and safe, legal abortion millions of people would suffer.
And this episode wasn t the first time one of Rhimes characters had an abortion, yet tonight we saw one of our favorite characters make the deeply personal decision that one in three women have made in their lifetime.
We applaud Shonda Rhimes tonight and every Thursday night for proving that when women are telling our stories, the world will pause and watch.
We just hope those in Congress and throughout the nation who are steadfast on rolling the clock back on reproductive health care access are taking note.After getting the abortion, Olivia returns to the White House, where she sips on some red wine while the classical piece Ave Maria plays in the background.In its own statement, Media Research Center blasted the episode:Hollywood s liberal values permeate movies and television.
Last night s episode of ABC s Scandal was pretty much an hour-long advertisement for Planned Parenthood.
In the most disturbing scene, the main character has an abortion to Silent Night (a hymn celebrating the birth of Jesus) playing in the background.
This is Hollywood s moral depravity on full display.#IStandWithMellie #IStandWithPlannedParenthood kerry washington (@kerrywashington) November 20, 2015Actress Kerry Washington tweeted her support of Planned Parenthood last night, using the hashtags #IStandWithPlannedParenthood and #IStandWithMellie, in reference to Bellamy Young s character who was filibustering in the Senate against defunding Planned Parenthood.Via: Breitbart News