When a charitable foundation offers access to a public official in exchange for large donations it s called pay-for-play.Throughout the 2016 campaign, Donald Trump and his team of minions led by Kellyanne Conway repeatedly accused Hillary Clinton of using the Clinton Foundation to sell access to the Secretary of State s office, allegations that have been proven false no matter how many times conservatives repeat them.But Eric and Donald Trump Jr. just got caught trying to sell access to their father through the Eric Trump Foundation by requiring $1 million donations for a private meeting with the president-elect.That s the EXACT definition of pay-for-play, which is why the demonic duo rescinded the offer and quickly backed away from the scheme.And when Kellyanne Conway pathetically tried to defend their scheme, CNN host Chris Cuomo took her to the woodshed for being a lying hypocrite.
I think we should go back and look at what Don Jr. and Eric have done and wanted to continue to do, which is raise money for charities, Conway remarked in an attempt to evade Cuomo s question about the illegal scheme.
The Eric Trump Foundation is 10 years old.
It has done enormously great work.
Cuomo pointed out that Conway herself whined when Clinton s team made the same argument.
It s the same thing the Clinton people said when they were defending their allegations of pay-for-play.
They (Eric and Donald Jr.) were selling off a million dollar trip to hunt with the boys and hang out with the president.
That sounds like paying for access.
But Conway dodged again by throwing out the same accusations and attacks against the Clinton s that have been repeatedly debunked.
I don t know how that s the same as Bill Clinton giving a million dollar speech in Russia and then Hillary Clinton, while secretary of state, turning around and giving 20 percent of the U.S. uranium interests away, Conway claimed.
But that tall tale was rated false back in June.Then Cuomo grilled Conway.CUOMO: So paying a million dollars to hang out with the president is okay?
CONWAY: I didn t say that.
CUOMO: I know, you re not answering.
You re going after the Clintons.
I m saying, what s your answer?
CONWAY: You mentioned the Clinton Foundation, you said it s the same.
I m saying it s absolutely not the same.
Then Cuomo dropped the hammer.
You re giving the same defense that they gave.
When you made the allegations against the Clintons, they said, We do lots of great work.
We took these meetings.
There s never been a direct connection between what she did at the [state department] and what was going on at the foundation.
You re now saying basically the same thing.
Eric Trump does great work with his foundation and paying a lot of money to hang out with the president is okay.
If it s all okay, why are they backing away?
Conway then whined that the media isn t treating Trump and his family fairly, which has been the main strategy when they are caught being hypocrites.Here s the video via YouTube.Eric Trump and his unfortunately named brother clearly knew what they were doing was wrong and that they were going to get busted running a pay-for-play scheme.
That s the only reason why they backed out.
And Kellyanne Conway knows it, which is why her defense was so pathetic.
Whining about the media and attacking the Clintons have become the standard rules whenever Trump or his family members are busted doing something wrong.
One still wonders how Conway can sleep at night or look at herself in the mirror every morning knowing that she is defending Satan and his demon spawn.Featured image via screenshot