Remember when the National Rifle Association warned Americans that President Obama was going to confiscate guns from responsible firearm owners and then he didn t?
Remember when Obama spoke at events and those opposed to his presidency showed up armed and the president gave zero f*cks?
Then remember when Donald Trump said, I Could Stand In the Middle Of Fifth Avenue And Shoot Somebody And I Wouldn t Lose Any Voters.
He probably wasn t wrong there.
His supporters are unhinged but devoted.
As a candidate, Trump garnered strong support from gun owners and the NRA.
As a candidate, he promised to keep the Second Amendment intact.
As president-elect, he just banned guns from his inauguration.Gizmodo reports:The transition team has drawn up a list of banned items.
For instance, you can t bring drones, selfie sticks, or guns.
Which all sounds a bit like 1984, if you ask me.
I thought Trump was supposed to be the candidate of freedom.
More like the candidate of taking our guns away, amirite?At least it looks like vapes aren t included on the verboten list.
Which should make Grover Norquist pretty happy.
And it makes sense to ban bicycles, since only granola-gulping, latte-sipping pinkos ride bikes.
But why does Trump gotta take away all our fun toys like selfie sticks and firearms?The gun grabbing Marxist-Commie s list of banned items are as follows:Aerosols Ammunition Animals other than service/guide animals Backpacks and bags exceeding size restrictions (18 by 13 by 7 ) Bicycles Balloons Coolers Drones and other unmanned aircraft systems Explosives Firearms Glass, thermal, or metal containers Laser pointers Mace / Pepper spray Packages Selfie Sticks Signs exceeding the size restrictions (20 x 3 x 1/4 ) Structures Supports for signs and placards Toy guns Weapons of any kindAt the bottom of the list it reads, Any other items determined to be potential safety hazards.
Ha ha, go find a safe place, Donald, you delicate little snowflake.Why does Trump hate freedom?Photo by Scott Olson via Getty.