It s not the first time that the name of Vladimir Putin has been brought up in the US presidential campaign, but this time the US president used this argument while openly campaigning for Clinton against Trump.
The situation has become really ludicrous and it borders on the ridiculous, believes Gregory R. Copley, editor of Defense & Foreign Affairs.
In my 50 odd years covering the US government, I have never seen this level of partisanship within the administration where a sitting president actually regards the opposition party as the enemy of the state, Copley told RT.The analyst said that the democrats are blaming the messenger to revert the attention from the message.
The message which Donald Trump delivered on RT was unambiguous in his campaign.
Just like the fact that WikiLeaks revelation of the hacked emails was very explicit in showing up what the Democratic party itself was doing, Copley added.The US establishment is sacrificing key bilateral relationships in order to win [a] domestic election, believes Copley.
He added that neither Obama nor Clinton are interested in unifying the country, but they are rather interested in winning and engaging in what modern democracy seems to have become the tyranny of the marginal majority over the marginal minority.
When you think about the number of times that the Clinton campaign has brought up President Putin and the alleged Russian hacking of Hillary Clinton s service, it makes you wonder just how desperate they are, Copley noted.
President Obama has lost literally all prestige in an international community with the loss of prestige he has become desperate.
Read more: RTAnother round of hacked Democratic National Committee documents have been released.
Provided by an anonymous representative of a hacker, Guccifer, the 500 megabytes detail the DNC s information technology infrastructure and internal reports on donors.Forbes reports that on Tuesday in London at the Future of Cyber Security Europe conference, Guccifer addressed cybersecurity experts through an unknown and remote transcriber.The notorious hacker then shared a trove of documents ostensibly obtained via a breach of the DNC s cybersecurity.
According to Forbes, a password and login was given to them, and the documents they accessed appeared to show details of DNC donors and finances as well as the information technology setup to protect the sensitive data.In July, just as the Democratic National Convention was getting underway, WikiLeaks released the results of the first DNC hack carried out by Guccifer.
That hack revealed signs of bias in favor of Hillary Clinton over her primary opponent Bernie Sanders, and consequently led to the resignation of the DNC chair, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, as well as several other top officers.The DNC responded to the latest hack claim Tuesday through its Interim Chair Donna Brazile, who stated that the DNC is the victim of a crime, which she blamed on Russian state-sponsored agents, while also cautioning that the hacked documents were still being authenticated by the DNC legal team, as it is common for Russian hackers to forge documents.