Caitlyn Jenner is not afraid to speak her mind.
The Olympian turned reality TV star is making news once again.
This week, while promoting her new book, The Secrets of My Life, she admitted that while she is a Republican and voted for President Donald Trump she is not happy with all of the president s policies and actions.Jenner spoke to a packed audience at the 92nd Street Y Community Center in New York this week.
She says that she is looking into where her voice can be heard the loudest and how she can do the most to impact her community.
She says that she does not regret voting for the president but she is not thrilled with everything has done.
In the past she has said that she is a Republican because she supports the Constitution and limited government.
While she says that she has no regrets about voting for the president, Jenner admits, As far as LGBT issues, yes, he s made some mistakes.
I don t support him in everything that he does.
But we needed to shake the system up.
At the same time, Jenner said, My loyalties are not with Donald Trump.
I will come after him and come after Republicans if they come after my community.
I ve got a voice and they better listen, OK?
I will come after them.
When a member of the audience asked if she had any plans to run for elected office, Jenner replied, Would I be better working from the inside?
If that is the case I would seriously look at a run.
It just depends where I could be more effective.
Some people know Jenner from her time as Bruce when she won multiple gold medals in the Olympics during the 1970s.
Younger generations know her from the show Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
Viewers watched her before her transformation, through the process and then after.
The family has not responded well to her new book.Before she told the world that she was transgender, Jenner thought she had too many skeletons in her closet.
Now that the world knows about that, she says, Now, I have no more secrets.
I would have to look over the next year or two and see, Can I do a better job on the outside?
or Am I in a position now that I can do a better job for my community on the inside?
Featured image via Santiago Felipe/Getty Images