The best part of the whole video is when this pompous Muslim street preacher tells the police officer that the woman in the tight jeans confronted him.
He goes on to say, if the cop doesn t believe him, to ask any of the Muslims who are surrounding and encouraging him to berate the police officer.
Things are about to get very ugly in these areas around London where Muslims have formed very strong enclaves of citizens and refugees who have no intention of assimilating with British citizens An Islamic street preacher has been arrested and charged after allegedly screaming abuse at a woman for wearing tight jeans and shouting Allah Akbar in a police officer s face.Krissoni Henderson appeared to be caught on camera angrily confronting the officer who was investigating a complaint made against the 31-year-old.The unnamed policeman was called to New Street in Birmingham city centre at around 5.30pm on July 4 following a 999 call from a 38-year-old woman who said she feared for her safety after a verbal confrontation.
She alleged she had been shouted and sworn at.In the footage below, a man alleged to be Henderson is wearing traditional Islamic dress and standing with another man and a woman.
Here is my witness, he appears to yell, gesturing to the woman, if you want to arrest me arrest me.
He vehemently explains that the woman who complained had walked up to him rather than the other way round, making him the innocent party.
Do you think I m scared?
he says skeptically to the officer who is trying to reason with them.He then begins to shout with increasing force over the policeman: Freedom of speech, we are not going to take your racism anymore.
We re not terrorists and we are not suicide bombers, throw your television in the dustbin.
This is a free country and we can speak freely in public!
He goes on to claim that the woman who complained had threatened him when she approached him.
But when the officer asks if he can give him the common decency of not shouting over him the preacher continues to bellow his reasoning.And as the policeman walks away slightly to attempt to defuse the situation he yells after him, Go, go find some rapists!
Again the officer asks for the common courtesy of being listened to but the preacher repeats his argument of having a witness.He apparently works himself as he confronts the fluorescent jacketed man, screaming that he is scared of no one but Allah and spitting Allah Akbar in the officer s face.Eventually the policeman turns to the crowd which has amassed and explains: This young man has the right to assembly.
He can stand here and shout and alarm.
He can shock and offend If he commits a public order offense then he will be arrested.
However it is clear the crowd is very much on the preacher s side and as the officer walks away they begin to gather in around the man, jeering and heckling the retreating policeman.
Via: Daily Mail