As he was standing next to podium, Donald Trump must have been throwing a silent temper tantrum as Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny humiliated him and his anti-immigrant policy.St.
Patrick s Day may have been a complete bummer this year because of Trump, but during an event at the White House honoring the holiday, Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny gave the world something to smile about as he delivered remarks about immigration that made Trump fume on the sidelines.Unable to rudely stop the Irish leader, Trump had to listen as Kenny talked about immigration and how immigrants came to America and made our country stronger despite bigots who looked down upon them.
It s fitting that we gather here each year to celebrate St. Patrick and his legacy, Kenny began.
He, too, of course, was an immigrant.
And even though he is, of course, the patron saint of Ireland, for many people around the globe, he is also the symbol of indeed, the patron of immigrants.
Here in America, in your great country, 35 million people claim Irish heritage, Kenny continued as Trump scowled and squirmed.
And the Irish have contributed to the economic, social, political and cultural life of this great country over the last 200 years.
Kenny then pointed out that Irish immigrants were also unwelcome in America as people blamed them for crime and lack of jobs just as Donald Trump and Republicans are blaming Latinos today.
Ireland came to America because, deprived of liberty, deprived of opportunity, of safety, and even food itself, the Irish believed, and four decades before Lady Liberty lifted her lamp we were the retched refuse on the teeming shore.
We believed in the shelter of America, in the compassion of America, in the opportunity of America.
Here s the video via Twitter.
We were the wretched refuse on the teeming shore, Irish prime minister says with Donald Trump in the room.
pic.twitter.com/7jEfTVvIzE Barry Malone (@malonebarry) March 17, 2017Indeed, millions of immigrants came to this country with nothing in order to pursue better lives for themselves and their families just as immigrants continue to do so today.
But Trump has made the American Dream a nightmare for millions of immigrants as he continues to persecute Latinos and Muslims.And the Irish Prime Minister just cleverly shamed Donald Trump in the most epic and stealthy way for it.Featured image via screenshot