When conservatives refer to black people as slaves it totally undermines what little effort they put into trying to get their votes.But a conservative writer did exactly that in a racist article published by Mediaite on Tuesday in an attack on Lebron James and Mary J. Blige for endorsing Hillary Clinton.In the opinion piece titled LeBron James, Mary J. Blige Tell Blacks to Remain Slaves to Hillary; Vote Their Color Not Their Conscience, author Crystal Wright referenced slavery and compared blacks to livestock right out of the gate in support of Donald Trump.
Slavery ended in 1865, Wright began.
Yet blacks still act like the political chattel of the Democrat [sic] Party.
Each election cycle blacks allow the Democrat Party and its proxies to tell them how to vote, and they follow orders like loyal slaves.
The 2016 election is turning out to be no different.
Wright then goes on to whine about Lebron James s recent endorsement of Hillary Clinton.
When I look at this year s presidential race, it s clear which candidate believes the same thing, James said.
Only one person running truly understands the struggles of an Akron child born into poverty.
And when I think about the kinds of policies and ideas the kids in my foundation need from our government, the choice is clear.
That choice is Hillary Clinton.
How does Hillary understand the struggle of a black kid born into poverty, as James wrote, when she s spent her entire 30-year career as a politician doing nothing to fix the problem?
Wright responded.Let s start by pointing out that Hillary Clinton has been a lifelong advocate for ending poverty, something the Clinton Administration actually made significant progress in achieving during the 1990s.In 1990, 29 percent of black families lived in poverty.
But during the Clinton years when the economy boomed, that percentage was cut to only 19 percent, which is the lowest it has been in the last 50 years.Similarly, poverty stricken black families headed by single women also dropped to all-time lows during the Clinton years, from 48 percent in 1990 to 34 percent in 2000.By the time the Clintons left the White House, more African-American had been lifted out of poverty than during any other presidency, but those gains were soon reversed after Republicans took over in January 2001.In short, why should black voters risk things getting even worse under Trump when they can put a woman in the White House who was there when things were getting better?But Wright wasn t done insulting black voters.
Of course, we know LeBron s op-ed is directed only to blacks, she continued.
Because white people don t look to professional athletes for voting instructions.
White Americans are not a monolithic voting group, which is why their vote influences policy.
LeBron James did not instruct black people to vote for Clinton.
He asked them along with everyone else.
That s because James has white fans, Hispanic fans, and female fans, too.
Just because he is black doesn t mean he only has black fans.
Assuming otherwise is blatantly racist.
Also, assuming that white people are not influenced by athletes is just ridiculous.Wright then concludes by telling black people to vote for Trump.As for Hillary, she is no more viable a candidate for blacks than she is for women.
The only life that matters to Hillary is her own, and a career-long obsession with winning the office she s coveted for a lifetime.Yet celebrities like LeBron James want blacks to feel good voting for their color over their conscience.
What do blacks have to lose voting for Trump?
Absolutely nothing.Actually, black people have everything to lose if Trump wins.When the conservative-controlled Supreme Court struck down a key portion of the Voting Rights Act, it was a signal that Republicans intend to tear down landmark legislation that protects the constitutional rights of African-Americans.
Republicans, including Trump, have also called for repealing the 14th Amendment, which overturned the Dred Scott ruling that Americans descended from African slaves can t be United States citizens.Furthermore, Republicans have enacted voter suppression laws in several states, which primarily targets black people.Also, Trump s track record with black people is pretty shitty.
For one, he s only just now beginning to reach out to them, but that s only because his poll numbers suck and he is desperate.
But he called for the death penalty for the Central Park Five, who spent years in prison for a rape they did not commit.
And Trump was sued in the 1970s for refusing to rent to black people.
Plus, unlike the Clintons, Trump has no record to offer as reasons why black people should vote for him.
Hillary Clinton does.Clinton is still a champion for reducing poverty and caring for children and families.
And her husband s economic policies helped lift millions of blacks out of poverty.
Wright talks about black voters as if they are mindless drones on some kind of modern plantation.
But the fact is that Democrats have fought for equality and civil rights for decades while Republicans have done nothing but stand in the way or try to roll back the progress made.
While Democrats have worked hard to earn the support of black voters, Republicans turned their backs on them a long time ago and have done nothing over the last century to earn back their support.
Donald Trump will not change that, especially when his biggest supporters are white supremacists.Calling black people slaves just because they support a certain party is reprehensible and it s a reason why black voters reject conservatives.
But you can be certain that Trump s KKK buddies are absolutely thrilled about Wright s words.
After all, they really do want black people to be slaves.Featured Image: Joe Raedle/Getty Images