In a speech to the American Legion, the largest veteran organization in the country, Donald Trump alarmingly went full fascist when he promised to promote pride and patriotism in American schools.
When you add that to his attacks on the press, support of nationalists, quoting of dictators, and lack of support for the freedom of speech, the picture that is painted is very clear.The troubling remarks began early in his speech: I want to begin by discussing one goal that I know is so important to all of you: promoting American pride and patriotism in America s schools.In A Trump Administration, I plan to work directly with the American Legion to uphold our common values and to help ensure they are taught to America s children.
We want our kids to learn the incredible achievements of America s history, its institutions, and its heroes.We will stop apologizing for America, and we will start celebrating America.We will be united by our common culture, values and principles becoming One American Nation.
And if you re one of many parents who have trouble with children mindlessly repeating the pledge of allegiance many of whom don t know what the words pledge and allegiance mean he s got bad news for you, specifically: That flag deserves respect, and I will work with American Legion to help to strengthen respect for our flag and, by the way, we want young Americans to recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
In other words, Trump wants right-wing nationalist propaganda in public schools.
That s probably because Republicans have a serious problem with history, and an even bigger problem with teaching it to kids.
After all, they might learn that the United States is not inherently morally superior and beyond reproach by definition!
That s why in 2014, House Republicans actually expressed their displeasure with, you know, facts, and passed a resolution saying they don t approve of high school AP History.
Seriously.The following Al Franken quote comes to mind: You have to love your country like an adult loves somebody, not like a child loves its mommy.
And right-wing Republicans tend to love America like a child loves its mommy, where everything Mommy does is okay.
But adult love means you re not in denial, and you want the loved one to be the best they can be.
That s not the only reason Trump s idea is a bad one.
It s also illegal.
As Military Times points out:Public schools nationwide are funded by their local communities along with some state money.
Most schools receive little federal funding.Current federal law prohibits the federal government from exercising any direction, supervision, or control over the curriculum, program of instruction, administration, or personnel of any educational institution, school, or school system.
Good luck with that, Trump.You can watch the full video of his speech below:Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images