According to Ted Cruz and many of his staunchest supporters, God ordained him to be the next president of the United States.Back in August, an Iowa Republican literally claimed that God prepared Ted Cruz to be president.
We need someone who will go to Washington and throw the money-changers out, Iowa GOP Chair Matt Schultz declared.
God raises special men and women to protect his people, and I believe this is one of those moments in time.
Ted Cruz is that man who God has prepared for this moment in time.
In addition, Cruz s wife claimed that God sent her a sign that her husband should run for president and Cruz s father Rafael declared his son the anointed one.
Of course, conservative Christians bought this hook, line, and sinker.
And now they are devastated because Cruz defied God s wishes and dropped out of the race.American Family Association spokesman Bryan Fischer expressed his disappointment on Twitter and called for writing in Cruz s name on the ballot instead of voting for Donald Trump.Tonight is a bad night for Ted Cruz.
But it is a terrible night for the United States, our children, and our grandchildren.
Bryan Fischer (@BryanJFischer) May 3, 2016 43 states allow write-in votes for president.
Does the write-in campaign for Ted Cruz start tomorrow?
Bryan Fischer (@BryanJFischer) May 4, 2016Cruz supporters had the sads as well, expressing their condolences on his Facebook page.And one Cruz supporter blamed just about everyone except Cruz himself for the defeat.Right-wing talk show host Steve Deace threw a hissy fit after Cruz dropped out by immediately leaving the Republican Party and declaring that America wanted to be spanked by God by voting for Trump.
The country missed an opportunity here with an imperfect vessel to try and take a step back towards the righteous path, but it is what it is, Deace wrote.
And yes, there are things Cruz could ve done differently, but when you re up against a zeitgeist as well as a long overdue providential spanking, there s only so much anyone can do.
America clearly dodged a bullet by Cruz dropping out of the race.
While the debate continues on whether or not Trump actually believes what he has been saying, Cruz definitely believed every word that came out of his own mouth, including his intention to discriminate against non-Christians and gay people as well as outlawing abortion to the point where he would even force rape victims to carry pregnancies to term.But the bottom line here is that Ted Cruz literally believed that God wanted him to become president in November, yet he dropped out of the race anyway.
Apparently, reality trumped faith on Tuesday night, and Evangelicals can t handle the truth.Featured Image: Flickr