After claiming that he s the least racist person, Donald trump literally assumed a black reporter could set up a meeting with the Congressional Black Caucus for him.Seriously, that actually happened during Trump s first solo press conference on Thursday.After talking about our inner cities like they are apocalyptic crime-infested war zones, American Urban Radio Networks reporter April Ryan asked Trump if he will work with the Congressional Black Caucus.
Trump s response was to assume that because Ryan is black she ll know the CBC members.
He then told her to set up a meeting with them as if she is his servant.
And then he accused Rep. Elijah Cummings of refusing to meet with him.Ryan: When you say inner cities, are you gonna include the CBC, Mr. President, in the conversations with your urban agenda, your inner city agenda, as well as Trump: Am I gonna am I gonna include who?Ryan: Are you gonna include the Congressional Black Caucus and Trump: Well, I would.
I tell you what, you want to set up the meeting?
Do you want to set up the meeting?Ryan: No, no, no I m just a reporter.Trump: Are they friends of yours?Ryan: I know some of them Trump: No, go ahead, set up the meeting.
Let s go.
Set up a meeting, I would love to meet with the black caucus.
I think it s great, the Congressional Black Caucus, I think it s great.
I actually thought I had a meeting with Congressman Cummings, and he was all excited, and then he said, oh, I can t move.
It might be bad for me politically.
I can t have that meeting.
I was all set to have that meeting.
You know we called him and called him.
And he was all set.
I spoke to him on the phone, a nice guy.Ryan: I hear he wanted that meeting with you as well.Trump: He wanted it.
But we called called called called.
I can t make a meeting with him.
Every day, I walk in, I said, I would like to meet with him, because I do want to solve the problem.
But he probably was told by Schumer or somebody like that, some other lightweight.He was probably told he was probably told, don t meet with Trump.
It s bad politics.
That s part of the problem in this country.
Okay.
One more.Here s the video via The Washington Post.The fact is, however, that the Congressional Black Caucus has already tried to set up a meeting with Trump but he ignored the letter they sent him.Hi, @realDonaldTrump.
We re the CBC.
We sent you a letter on January 19, but you never wrote us back.
Sad!
Letter: https://t.co/58KiuHmITF The CBC (@OfficialCBC) February 16, 2017And one Twitter user suggested a reason why Trump didn t respond.
@OfficialCBC @realDonaldTrump too many words, too few maps.
megan larson (@meganjlarson) February 16, 2017Or, Trump is just a racist and doesn t want to be seen meeting with black people in the White House.Featured image via screenshot