Proving once again that Republicans don t care about women, a Georgia Republican has blocked a BIPARTISAN bill that would have required the testing of untested rape kits.A rape kit is performed to gather evidence so that police can find and arrest rapists.
But if they are never tested to find DNA matches, victims never get justice for the heinous crime done to them.And that s why Georgia Democratic state Rep. Scott Holcomb sponsored House Bill 827 to finally test the outrageous backlog of rape kits that have remained in storage, some of them for decades, and get justice to the victims.The bill enjoyed bipartisan support across party lines, which is rare these days.
But Georgia GOP state Senator Renee Unterman ruthlessly blocked the bill in committee because she claims the bill has been overly politicized and demanded to be shown evidence of the backlog because she apparently doesn t believe one exists.
If there was a problem, I would be Johnny on the spot and I would have written the legislation.
I think he really overly politicized it in an election year and I ve got a problem with that.
There s no reason to write a law just because it makes you feel good.
I ve been asking that representative to show me where the back log is, show me where this rape kits are?
Here s the video via CBS46.WTVM.com-Columbus, GA News Weather & Sports But Unterman is wrong.
According to an investigation by CBS46 in 2015, thousands of rape kits have been discovered waiting to be tested.CBS46 found that both Athens-Clarke County and Cobb County police departments recently uncovered hundreds of rape kits that hadn t been sent to a crime lab for processing.
ACCPD found 159 untested kits dating back to 1993, while Cobb police identified 365 untested kits dating back to the 1970 s.CBS46 also reports that Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta reported it has 1490 untested kits in its rape crisis center.
And Georgia isn t the only state where such a massive backlog exists.
CBS46 also reported that thousands of rape kits have gone untested in Michigan and Texas as well, but it s disturbingly common across the nation.Senator Unterman ought to be ashamed of herself.
She had a chance to help rape victims get justice and she refused to take it.
And women should be outraged enough to vote her out of office, because as Madeleine Albright once said, there s a special place in hell for women who won t help other women, and it looks like Unterman has already booked a room.
Featured image via EndTheBacklog.org