It s been a very, very bad day for the newly elected Donald Trump administration.
First, amid revelations of Russian connections, his National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, was forced to resign.
Now, others may soon follow, but it s the big guy himself that has mental health professionals concerned and in an open letter in the New York Times, they begged that Congress and the media do something about it.The 37 mental health professionals, ranging from social workers to psychologists and psychiatrists have all violated the ethical code called the Goldwater Rule, which is a self-imposed ban on diagnosing public officials.
Frankly, though, there hasn t been such a high-level politician who s been putting us in as much danger as Trump is (at least not since the resignation of Richard M. Nixon), so they felt it was time to speak out.While the letter doesn t diagnose Trump with a specific mental illness (like malignant narcissism), they are more generally concerned with Trump s delusions of grandeur.Mr.
Trump s speech and actions demonstrate an inability to tolerate views different from his own, leading to rage reactions.
His words and behavior suggest a profound inability to empathize.
Individuals with these traits distort reality to suit their psychological state, attacking facts and those who convey them (journalists, scientists).In a powerful leader, these attacks are likely to increase, as his personal myth of greatness appears to be confirmed.
We believe that the grave emotional instability indicated by Mr. Trump s speech and actions makes him incapable of serving safely as president.Others have gone even further.In a bid to warn the public, psychologists are publishing their diagnoses of Trump.
Most recently, John D. Gartner said Trump is dangerously mentally ill and temperamentally incapable of being president.
He believes Trump shows signs of malignant narcissism, which is defined as a mix of narcissism, antisocial personality disorder, aggression and sadism in Campbells Psychiatric Dictionary.In December, three psychiatry professors wrote to President Obama, calling Trump mentally unstable.
His widely reported symptoms of mental instability including grandiosity, impulsivity, hypersensitivity to slights or criticism, and an apparent inability to distinguish between fantasy and reality lead us to question his fitness for the immense responsibilities of the office, the professors from Harvard Medical School and the University of California wrote to the then President, urging him to order a full medical and neuropsychiatric evaluation of the then President-elect.Unfortunately, Obama, who was probably aware that Trump was mentally unfit, had no legal recourse to do anything.
Trump, however, is a clear and present danger to our country.
His refusal to accept even the tiniest amount of dissent, his business conflicts and his Russian associations make it too dangerous for him to remain in office for another day.
Unfortunately, we have a Republican Congress that puts party before country.
They d rather see it burn down than to damage their mission of complete corporate reign.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images.