Rep. Elijah E. Cummings is demanding answers after presidential staff members reportedly passed confidential information to House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes and helped him sneak onto White House grounds.Cummings, who is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to White House Counsel Donald McGahn and National Security Advisor Lt. Gen. H.R.
McMaster on Friday in which he asked some questions the White House really doesn t want to answer.The letter made it clear that Cummings wants to know just exactly who knew what when.
Over the past two days, press accounts have reported that staff who work directly for you contacted Rep. Devin Nunes, the Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, secured his entry into the White House complex on March 21, 2017, and provided him with access to classified information, which he then conveyed to the President the following day.
I am writing to request information about whether you both were aware of these actions I do not know if these press accounts are accurate, but if they are, they raise serious questions in light of previous denials by the White House and the fact that these White House officials report to you, Cummings wrote.
The Democratic congressman cited multiple conflicting reports that have come from the administration.
After naming the staffers and the allegations against each of them, Cummings asked five questions that have the White House scared to death:(1) Were either of you personally aware of the activities of your own staff in contacting Chairman Nunes, facilitating his entry onto the White House grounds, or providing him with access to classified information?
(2) If so, when did you become aware?
Did you inform Mr. Spicer of their activities, and if so, when did you do so?
(3) If you were not aware, then how did this breach of the chain of command occur?
(4) If these activities occurred without your knowledge, will any disciplinary measures be taken against these staff for this apparent breach?
(5) Was anyone else at the White House involved in these activities, and if so, who?Cummings questions should have the Trump administration shaking in their boots.
No doubt we will hear far more lies from the White House before we ever get close to the truth.
Cummings gave McGahn and McMaster until April 7 to respond with their next version of the truth.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images