This is an old video that exposes so much about the phony race issues that Obama and the Robinson s (Michelle s maiden name) seem to be so obsessed with.
Please watch this very informative video to the end.
You will see pictures of Obama s white uncle and aunt that, for some reason, have been hidden from plain site.
There is also an interesting picture of Barack s extended White and Asian family.
Why did the press work so hard to keep these photos, and this video hidden during his campaign and presidency?
It s pretty clear that Barack learned how to work the system from his father/sperm donor, Barack Hussein Obama Sr.
But life changed dramatically when he was only two, and his father abandoned his wife and son to accept a scholarship at Harvard.
After completing his PHD, Obama Sr. returned to Kenya.
Barry saw his father only one more time when he was 10 and his father returned to Hawaii for a visit.At age 6, young Barry did gain a stepfather.
His mother met and married a Muslim graduate student at the University of Hawaii who was from Indonesia.
Barry and his mother moved to Indonesia and soon, a half-sister was born.
Indonesia s poverty and its politics, which had victimized (Is it possible to be a part of Barack s life if you re not a victim?)
his step-father, left a lasting impression on the young bi-racial child trying to fit into yet another culture.It was in Indonesia where Barry first saw magazine stories and ads about blacks bleaching their skin.
That was (apparently) when he realized, (at the age of 10 yrs) there were power relationships in race.
So when most boys Barry s age are worrying about building tree forts, catching frogs, riding their bikes or securing the neighborhood paper delivery job, Barack was concerned with power relationships in race?
Really?Punahou occupies a privileged position, not just on the hillside, but in Hawaii society.
In his memoir, Dreams From My Father, Barack Obama recalled how his grandfather pulled strings to get him in.
[F]or my grandparents, my admission into Punahou Academy heralded the start of something grand, an elevation in the family status that they took great pains to let everyone know, Obama wrote.For generations, Punahou educated the children of plantation owners, businessmen and politicians.
Pal Eldredge graduated from Punahou in the 1960s.
In the beginning, we were known as the haole school, says Eldredge.Haole is Hawaiian for foreigner or white person.
Eldredge says that when young Obama arrived as a fifth-grader in 1971, the school s complexion was just beginning to change.
We didn t have a lot of African-Americans.
So your first thing is, Oh, we ve got an African-American.
Terrific!
says Eldredge.He was teaching at Punahou at the time, and he remembers the future president as a pudgy, cheerful kid.
He used to wear these shorts and striped T-shirts a lot, and sandals.
But after you got to know him, not only was he a bright student, but he was just a funny, all-around kid, and everybody liked him, says Eldredge.As usual, Barry can turn a story of privilege into a story of victimhood like nobody s business: In his memoir, Obama dwells on moments at Punahou when his race made him feel conspicuous, such as the time he was teased for playing with the only other black child in his grade.
When I looked up, I saw a group of children, faceless before the glare of the sun, pointing down at us.
Coretta has a boyfriend!
Coretta has a boyfriend!
Obama writes.In the book, Obama s struggles with racial identity grow as he reaches high school, and he recalls intense discussions with another black student, an embittered boy he calls Ray.
Ray is really Keith Kakugawa.
He s part black, part Japanese.Kakugawa says he and young Obama did have some heart-to-hearts about race but, in general, it wasn t a big issue at the school because Punahou kids had to stick together.
Because we knew once we left that school, there was a target on our backs.
No matter what race you are, you re Punahou.
You re the rich, white kids.
Period, Kakugawa says.
He wasn t raised black, because he was raised in a white family, and raised as if he were a white boy.'
-Barack Obama s uncleReporter asks Obama: Were you essentially raised as a white child?
Obama: No.
I don t think so.
I mean I was raised as an Indonesian child, and as a Hawaiian child and as a black and white child.
Sorry Barry wrong again!
As much as you try to deny it, you were not only raised as a white child, but a white child with more privilege than 90% of the rest of the White population.
You were in the 1% of the White population, but you quickly learned to take advantage of all the benefits that come with being black when it was time to apply for college scholarships.
Like his dad, young Barry accepted a scholarship (FREE education) to the mostly White Occidental College in Los Angeles.
But he was dissatisfied and transferred to Columbia University in New York City in his Junior year.
Hoping to find more black students or at least a broader black community.
That is where Barry changed his name to Barack.Michelle Obama met Barack when she was tasked by her law firm to recruit him.
Michelle was surprised when she saw he was from Hawaii and asked her (racist) self: What normal black people grow up in Hawaii?
WATCH at the 13 minute mark:Michelle s racist mom was a little worried about the mixed heritage of her future son-in-law.
When asked about her concern about his race, she had this to say about Barack: That [his mixed race] didn t concern me as much as if he was completely white.
When Barack Obama lost his first election, many questioned if, given his heritage and Harvard Law degree, if he was black enough?
Michelle Obama was furious over the charge of her husband not being black enough.
She had this to say about Barack being black enough: I m as black as it gets.
I was born on the south side.
I come from an obviously black family you know, we weren t rich.
I ll put my blackness up against anyone s blackness in the the state.