The Republican Party has descended into madness.
The establishment is turning against their own presumptive nominee, members are choosing to back Hillary Clinton, and now their most popular and well-known advocates are leaving the Party in protest, sparking a fast growing Never Trump movement.Today, one of the most prominent and outspoken Republican commentators is saying goodbye to the GOP: George Will.The famous columnist, while speaking at a Federalist Society chapter event, blasted the GOP and nominee Donald Trump in a searing speech: This is not my party Make sure he [Trump] loses.
Grit their teeth for four years and win the White House.
Will told the audience at the libertarian event that he would change his affiliation to Unaffiliated.
He reportedly did not say who he would be backing, and spoke against the notion of a coup at the Republican National Convention, saying it was too late.In April, Will wrote a blistering op-ed opinion in which he called on Republicans to keep him out of the White House should he be the nominee, and instead focus on down-ballot candidates: Were he to be nominated, conservatives would have two tasks.
One would be to help him lose 50 states condign punishment for his comprehensive disdain for conservative essentials, including the manners and grace that should lubricate the nation s civic life.
Second, conservatives can try to save from the anti-Trump undertow as many senators, representatives, governors and state legislators as possible.
One thing is or sure: when a neocon, Pulitzer Prize winning columnist leaves the party over Donald trump, there s a serious issue brewing within.
In Arizona alone, new polls show that almost 15 percent of registered Republicans are backing Hillary Clinton.
Due to a highly competitive race among women and Hispanics, Arizona has gone from solid red to leans red.
Trump is causing massive disdain within the GOP, and Will is having none of it.
This stalwart is calling it quits.
As the convention approaches, one must wonder who will be next to jump ship.Featured image via Flickr