Tuesday night, after President Obama gave his final State of the Union Address, Governor Nikki Haley (R-SC) delivered the Republican rebuttal.
During her speech, though, she accidentally supported the Democratic Party s Syrian refugee policy while trying to exploit the Charleston massacre to take political shots at Donald Trump.After she was finished calling President Obama a failure, Governor Haley turned her attention to our immigration problem and the Syrian refugee crisis, saying: At the same time, that does not mean we just flat out open our borders.
We can t do that.
We cannot continue to allow immigrants to come here illegally.
And in this age of terrorism, we must not let in refugees whose intentions cannot be determined.
That line about refugees is one Republicans often say to justify their refusal to help the desperate families fleeing from unthinkable violence in Syria.
While this comment was not surprising, later on she said something that sounded an awful lot like a contradiction.Towards the middle of her speech, Governor Haley spoke about the Mother Emanuel massacre that took the lives of nine black churchgoers when a white supremacist decided that he wanted to start a race war.
She said: This past summer, South Carolina was dealt a tragic blow.
On an otherwise ordinary Wednesday evening in June, at the historic Mother Emanuel church in Charleston, twelve faithful men and women, young and old, went to Bible study.
That night, someone new joined them.
He didn t look like them, didn t act like them, didn t sound like them.
They didn t throw him out.
They didn t call the police.
Instead, they pulled up a chair and prayed with him.
For an hour.
She went on to take a not-so-subtle shot at Donald Trump: We didn t turn against each other s race or religion.
We turned toward God, and to the values that have long made our country the freest and greatest in the world.
So, while trying to exploit the Charleston massacre and taking shots at Trump, she accidentally supported Obama s policies.
She said even though Dylann Roof did not look like the Mother Emanuel churchgoers, they embraced him because those are real American values.
Haley is absolutely right!
That is what our country is all about.The United States was built on the intrinsic belief that we are a free nation that welcomes everyone especially the desperate, downtrodden souls of other nations.
We are also a nation the does not let the fear of others overcome us and scare us into not helping people.
Obviously, by this statement, she understands that the Syrian refugees perfectly fit this description and we should open our arms just like the beautiful victims of the Charleston did.
I m sure that if you ask her if she meant her comments in this way, she ll say no and THAT is what makes them so great.Thanks for the support, Governor Haley!
Obama appreciates it!Watch her rebuttal below:Featured image via video screenshot