As if firing FBI Director James Comey wasn t stupid enough, Trump has gone and driven two more nails into his own coffin this evening.
First, he hired an outside law firm to send a certified letter to Sen. Lindsey Graham, who chairs the Senate subcommittee that heard testimony from James Clapper and Sally Yates on May 8, regarding the Russia probe.Second, he s meeting with Vladimir Putin s top diplomat to the U.S., Sergey Lavrov, in the White House Wednesday morning.
The Associated Press says that this could be a signal that our relationship with Russia is improving again, but in the wake of the clusterfuck that was Trump s entire Tuesday, this does not look good at all.First, the law firm and the letter.
Trump wants the letter to Sen. Graham to claim that he has no connections to Russia.Seriously.He s hired an outside law firm to draft and send a letter to Sen. Lindsey Graham claiming that he has no connections business or otherwise to Russia.
Because obviously.But wait!
This move achieves the impossible by getting even more ridiculous than that!
Sean Spicer briefed the White House press corps on this development, and said: The president, obviously, was aware of Senator Graham s suggestion after he made it today and he s fine with that.
He has no business in Russia.
He has no connections to Russia.
So he welcomes that.In fact, he is already charged a leading law firm in Washington, D.C., to send a certified letter to Senator Graham to that point that he has no connections to Russia.
If he knows he s got no connections at all to Russia, and he knows he s completely innocent of all these allegations, then why hire an outside law firm to send a letter to Sen. Graham reiterating that?
That s not what someone who s sure of their innocence does.Now, his meeting with Lavrov is taking place after Lavrov meets with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
Both meetings will supposedly focus on stabilizing Syria the Trump administration seems to think that we need to work with Russia to accomplish anything there.
But, as the AP notes in their story: [T]he meeting will be impossible to separate from the Trump administration s unfolding political drama in Washington, where FBI and congressional investigations are looking into possible collusion between Trump campaign associates and the Kremlin related to last year s presidential election.
U.S. intelligence agencies accuse Moscow of meddling to help Trump s chances of victory.
That, combined with this letter he s sending to Sen. Graham (and we have to wonder exactly how such a letter is going to prove that he s got no connections to Russia at all), just looks really, really bad.
In fact, it s starting to look like the world is about to come crashing down around him.Featured image by Olivier Douliery Pool via Getty Images