With just three days until Election Day, Hillary Clinton just dropped a bombshell reminding us why Donald Trump is totally unfit to be president.The list could go on and on but Hillary and her team settled on just 153 things the Republican nominee has said and done that would disqualify anyone else in a normal election.As we all know, Trump has been saying offensive things since the first day of his campaign when he called Mexicans rapists, which is number 55 on the list.
This list, which includes citations, is so long that it missed many other offensive things Trump has said and done.Here are just a few of the items listed.-Spent five years refusing to admit that President Obama was born in the U.S. and still hasn t apologized.-Said that wages in America are already too high.
-Encouraged a foreign country to commit espionage in the U.S., calling on Russia to hack Hillary Clinton s emails.-Refused to disavow white supremacist David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan four times in one interview.-Confused the Kurds, a crucial partner in the Middle East, with the Quds Iranian Revolutionary Guards.-Didn t know the difference between Hezbollah and Hamas.-Had no idea that Russia already invaded Ukraine in 2014, promising that Russia is not going to go into Ukraine, all right?
You can mark it down.
-Bragged about his building becoming the tallest in Lower Manhattan after the collapse of the World Trade Center on September 11th, 2001.-Said it would be totally fine if we defaulted because if the economy crashed, you could make a deal.
-Regularly praises and defends Vladimir Putin as a leader who is getting an A , and has even described him more favorably than President Obama.-Launched a series of attacks on a federal judge that Paul Ryan referred to as textbook racism, saying it was common sense that the judge, who was born in Indiana, would be biased because of his Mexican heritage.
-Compared his sacrifices of working very, very hard and buil[ding] great structures to the sacrifices of a Gold Star family.-Suggested there needed to be some form of punishment to women who get abortions.-Kicked a baby out of one of his rallies.
Seriously.-Complimented North Korea s dictator, Kim Jong-un: You ve gotta give him credit.
He goes in.
He takes over.
He s the boss.
It s incredible.
-Faced over 3,500 lawsuits, largely from ordinary Americans and small business owners who he refused to pay in spite of promises to the contrary.-Said, in 2006, that he was rooting for the real estate market to collapse, because people like me would go in and buy and you can make a lot of money.
-Said veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress are not strong and can t handle war.And these are just the tip of the iceberg.
To read the entire list, click here.As demonstrated perfectly by Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump should have been disqualified from running for president on the first day of his campaign.
He is offensive.
He is hateful.
He is sexist.
He is a racist.
And he is a liar who is more interested in helping himself than he is in helping the American people.If he somehow wins this election it will be the most disastrous election this country has ever produced and it will be an embarrassment that ruins our reputation and image around the globe.Hillary is right to point out that in any other election year any of these remarks would end a candidate s campaign.
But Donald Trump has conned his deplorables into supporting him no matter what he says or does.
As the number one thing on this list noted, Trump has said he could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldn t lose any voters.
One wonders what they ll let him get away with if he gets to be in the White House.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images