Carly Fiorina has joined the ranks of the biggest hypocrites of all time.
Joining the likes of Josh Duggar, Sarah Palin and Kim Davis, Fiorina has committed the ultimate of egregious errors: She worked for a company that profited from fetal stem cell research.In a scathing report from Al Jazeera America, Fiorina was exposed for collecting some $83000 working for a major pharmaceutical company:Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, a staunch opponent of abortion, made at least $83,000 serving on the board of directors of Merck & Co. at a time when the pharmaceutical company was producing vaccines using fetal stem cell lines derived from aborted fetuses, according to corporate documents reviewed by Al Jazeera America.
The program Inside Story with Ray Suarez also obtained documents indicating that during Fiorina s tenure on the board, anti-abortion groups had asked Merck to stop producing such vaccines, and that the company had refused.How can someone be so openly pro-life and still cash a check earned at least in part by the use of fetal tissue?
That s easy: She s a Republican.
Republicans live by a different code.
All things American should follow the constitution, unless it s something they don t like.
They cherry-pick parts of the First Amendment to ignore.
They ignore the 14th Amendment altogether.
They don t recognize the power of the Supreme Court under article 3 section 2 unless you re talking about Hobby Lobby or Citizen s United.Carly Fiorina touts herself as a candidate from outside of the establishment.
Sure she is.
She s a multi-millionaire former CEO who will look directly into the camera and lie to our faces.
She destroyed people s lives at Hewlett-Packard and refuses to take responsibility for it.
She answers the bulk of questions she s asked with Hillary Clinton emails.
She s exactly what the GOP loves to see.
She fits in rather perfectly with the likes of Jeb Bush, Chris Christie and John Kasich.Here she is at GOP debate Thursday night talking about just how much she loves those precious little fetuses and doubling down on her lies: Featured image by Gage Skidmore