A group of lawmakers is planning to request a congressional investigation of a $418 million U.S. weapons sale to Kenya approved by the Obama administration on its last day in office.
The sale, approved by the State Department and privately notified to Congress on January 19, would allow Kenya to buy 14 weaponized crop-duster-like planes including two trainer planes and services, for missions against terrorist group al-Shabaab.The deal was publicly announced the Monday after Trump s inauguration.A handful of lawmakers, led by Rep. Ted Budd (R-NC), are questioning why the contract to produce the planes was awarded to major defense firm L3 Technologies which has never produced such a plane while a smaller, disabled veteran-owned company in North Carolina that already make those planes at a lower cost was not considered.The L3 contract would primarily benefit its Platform Integration Division in Waco, Texas.
An L3 spokesman did not respond to a phone call asking for comment.Budd said the current deal is not a good one for the Kenyans either.
He met with the Kenyan Deputy Chief of Mission last Monday, who was allegedly flabbergasted they were potentially paying almost $200 million more than necessary.
We ve had several Kenyans reach out and thank us, he said.Several Kenyan analysts also questioned the sale on Twitter, with the accompanying hashtag #KDFWeaponsScam.
KDF is short for Kenyan Defense Force.We could have bought 5 of these Bell Boeing V-22 Ospreys at the $418 million expenditure #KDFWeaponsScam pic.twitter.com/2XXdS9g7VT The Muthoka (@MuthokaTito) February 17, 2017A US congressman has moved to halt Kenya's pending arms purchase saying that Kenya is getting a raw deal out of it.
#KDFWeaponsScam PATRIOT (@PaulKiarie_) February 17, 2017This Twitter user questions the thuggery of the government that according to this user is currently over $3 trillion in debt.The kind of Thuggery being witnessed by Jubilee govt is the worst The public debt stands at over 3 trillion up from 1.6 #KDFWeaponsScam Mafioso (@elchapo_jnr) February 17, 2017The Mooresville, N.C. company, IOMAX USA Inc., costed out 14 planes at $237 million dollars, according to a Budd aide.
It looks like politics, Budd said in a phone interview with Breitbart News on Monday.
Why are they sending it to someone that s produced zero, for twice the price?
This is inappropriate.
Later this week, Budd and several other GOP congressmen are planning to request the non-partisan investigation.It is not just Republicans puzzled by the matter.
Georgia Democrat Sanford Bishop will join Republicans in signing a letter being sent to the Kenyan ambassador to the U.S. on Tuesday.For entire story: Breitbart News