Donald Trump and his team are no fans of the free press.
They call any story that they dislike fake news, and Chief Strategist Steve Bannon has called the press the opposition party.
Perhaps most disturbing of all is Trump himself calling the press an enemy of the American people.
Well, it seems that the Trump White House s disdain for the free press has now been taken to a new and horrifying level.During Press Secretary Sean Spicer s daily press briefing, mainstream outlets were barred from the room in favor of Trump-friendly outlets such as Breitbart and the Washington Times.
Further, rather than the traditional televised briefing, this was an informal gathering in Spicer s White House office instead, with no cameras allowed.
Banished from the room were major, legitimate outlets such as CNN, The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, Politico, and Buzzfeed.
ABC, NBC, CBS and Fox were the only mainstream outlets in attendance, while the Associated Press and TIME boycotted the briefing in solidarity with their fellow reporters.
The White House Correspondents Association filed a formal complaint regarding what happened here.Via @saramurray: @nytimes, @latimes, @politico blocked with @cnn.
@AP + @TIME boycotted.
Allowed in: @BreitbartNews, @WashTimes + @OANN https://t.co/NF585wzLFM Katie Hinman (@khinman) February 24, 2017Here is the complaint from the WHCA:Certain media outlets were blocked from covering Sean Spicer's gaggle today.
Here is the @whca's response pic.twitter.com/YUeLS4ss0z Jordan Fabian (@Jordanfabian) February 24, 2017CNN was first to respond:CNN was blocked from WH @PressSec's media gaggle today.
This is our response: pic.twitter.com/8SfY2uYKEI CNN Communications (@CNNPR) February 24, 2017Here is video of their reporters discussing it on the air:This is beyond dangerous.
Banishing media outlets is about the most un-American attack on our democracy that we have ever seen.
The first thing dictators do is try to control and shut down the free press.
This a direct attack and assault on the Fourth Estate, and this administration is one that is more corrupt than that of Richard Nixon, with a president who routinely lies with impunity to the American public.
If you want to save our republic, you ll speak out against this assault on the free press and on the First Amendment before it s too late.Investigative journalists find some REAL dirt on this White House, and get rid of them once and for all.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images