Wow!
This is big and has to do with telling the truth about the EB-5 visa program:A Department of Homeland Security watchdog report issued Tuesday blasted the agency s No.
2 official for repeatedly intervening on behalf of well-connected participants in an investor-visa program, including Gov.
Terry McAuliffe (D-Va.) and Tony Rodham, a brother of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.The inspector general report faults Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas for creating an appearance of favoritism and special access as a result of highly unusual steps he took while serving as director of U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, which oversaw the investment-based program known as EB-5.WHISTLEBLOWER HARASSED AND ABUSED:They took her right to carry a weapon away and harassed her.
This woman is very brave to testify!
Hopefully, they will keep on digging into this and find out everything they need to.
Great job Taylor!
Taylor Johnson, a senior special agent in the Homeland Security Investigations division of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, testified at a Senate hearing alongside whistleblowers from several other agencies who claim to have faced similar harassment.Johnson told lawmakers she ran into resistance after investigating the so-called EB-5 program, which offers visas to investors.
She said she looked into the program over concerns about security risks, questioning whether visas were being approved with little scrutiny.But Johnson said her managers began to hear complaints about her queries.
Soon, she was removed from the investigation, and the case was closed.From there, it got worse.Johnson told the Senate Homeland Security Committee her weapon and credentials were taken, her government vehicle was confiscated, and her access to the building where she worked and government databases was revoked.Further, she said, I was told I couldn t even carry or own a personal weapon, which is a constitutional rights violation.
Read more: FOX News