On Friday, Democrats were doing their best to push a rumor that President Trump is about to fire special counsel Robert Mueller before Christmas.
According to The Hill Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said Friday that rumors on Capitol Hill suggest President Trump could fire special counsel Robert Mueller before Christmas, after Congress leaves Washington for the winter recess.
The rumor on the Hill when I left yesterday was that the president was going to make a significant speech at the end of next week.
And on Dec. 22, when we are out of D.C., he was going to fire Robert Mueller, Speier told California s KQED News.The ranking Democrat on the committee, Rep. Adam Schiff (Calif.), also said Friday that he is worried that Republicans leading the committee are seeking to shut down the committee s investigation by the end of the year.
Republicans have scheduled no witnesses after next Friday and none in 2017 [sic].
We have dozens of outstanding witnesses on key aspects of our investigation that they refuse to contact and many document requests they continue to sit on, he tweeted Friday.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Rumors that Trump could fire Mueller have swirled since Mueller s appointment in May.While Democrats are spreading rumors about Mueller s firing, Fox News has dropped another Mueller bombshell.FOX News A lawyer for the Trump presidential transition team is accusing Special Counsel Robert Mueller s office of inappropriately obtaining transition documents as part of its Russia probe, including confidential attorney-client communications, privileged communications and thousands of emails without their knowledge.In a letter obtained by Fox News and sent to House and Senate committees on Saturday, the transition team s attorney alleges unlawful conduct by the career staff at the General Services Administration in handing over transition documents to the special counsel s office.The transition legal team argues the GSA did not own or control the records in question and the release of documents could be a violation of the 4th Amendment which protects against unreasonable searches and seizures.Kory Langhofer, the counsel to Trump for America, wrote in Saturday s letter that the GSA handed over tens of thousands of emails to Mueller s probe without any notice to the transition.The attorney said they discovered the unauthorized disclosures by the GSA on December 12th and 13th and raised concerns with the special counsel s office.
We understand that the special counsel s office has subsequently made extensive use of the materials it obtained from the GSA, including materials that are susceptible to privilege claims, Langhofer writes.The transition attorney said the special counsel s office also received laptops, cell phones and at least one iPad from the GSA.Trump for America is the nonprofit organization that facilitated the transition between former President Barack Obama to President Trump.The GSA, an agency of the United States government, provided the transition team with office space and hosted its email servers.
We continue to cooperate fully with the special counsel and expect this process to wrap up soon, Sarah Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Saturday.The special counsel s office declined to comment Saturday.