David Duke is perhaps one of the most notorious Grand Wizards of the Ku Klux Klan alive today.
He also had quite a bit to say about Maine Governor Paul LePage s recent racist rant.
LePage suggested that black drug dealers are coming into his state and selling drugs, and while they re at it, getting white women pregnant.Of course, the backlash was ferocious for LePage s remarks, and he tried to walk them back.
But David Duke, being the vile racist that he is, devoted airtime on a recent edition of his radio show to defend LePage.
Calling LePage s racism the Trump effect of people not talking in politically correct manner, Duke said: You are probably picking yourself off the floor to think that an elected governor in the United States of America would actually talk about this horrible destruction and defilement of young white women.
These are not Anglo-Saxon guys from rural Maine doing this.
These are, again, like the Puff Diddys or whatever they want to call themselves from New York.
So, a black man having sex with a white woman is defilement.
These remarks are especially egregious, considering the history in the United States of black men being lynched at the drop of a hate when a white woman cries rape.
In the eyes of racists, there is nothing worse than a white woman coupling with a black man.
If David Duke thought the historical context of what he is saying here would be lost on the rest of us, he is dead wrong.Duke also had a guest on his show who echoed his racist beliefs, Pastor Mark Dankof.
Duke and Dankof then turned their attentions to Democratic Presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton, because of her speaking out against police brutality against people of color.
Duke said to Dankof: Isn t this the same Hillary Clinton who has constantly told us about black people being victimized by police?
She says that this is a racist problem that police are shooting down blacks.
When the fact is, they shoot down proportionally a far higher capita of a white person who acts criminally.
This is a lie, of course.
See the Bundy militia for Exhibit A.
If those were black people, they d have been dead the first day.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, is white privilege.
But then again, of course the likes of David Duke would never understand that, and nor would he want to.Duke s full comments can be heard here, at his media archive.Featured image via screen capture from Raw Story