When Donald Trump isn t getting blasted for his disrespectful comments about Muslim soldiers who died sacrificing their lives for America, the disgraced Republican nominee is being reminded of what awful things he s said about other groups.Thanks to actor Will Smith, this time it s women.
In a recent interview, Smith reminded everyone that Trump s infamous misogyny and sexism are not to be forgotten amongst all of the other groups of people The Donald offends in any given week.
Smith ripped Trump and his followers a new one when he said: For a man to be able to publicly refer to a woman as a fat pig, that makes me teary.
And for people to applaud, that is absolutely f*cking insanity to me.
Smith specifically is making reference to Trump s comments about Rosie O Donnell, but we all know Trump s anti-women remarks go far beyond her.
In the past, Trump has also attacked Arianna Huffington, calling her a dog and tweeting that she s unattractive both inside and out.
And let s not forget Trump s well-known feud with Fox News Megyn Kelly.TwitterTwitterBut Smith didn t stop there.
He continued to get more outraged, saying: My grandmother would have smacked my teeth out of my head if I had referred to a woman as a fat pig.
And I cannot understand how people can clap for that.
It s absolutely collective insanity If one of my sons, I am getting furious just thinking about it, if one of my sons said that in a public place, they couldn t even live in my house anymore.
Smith also went beyond Trump s misogyny and called the business mogul out for his bigoted rhetoric toward basically all minorities: I think as much as we want to believe that love is the greatest human motivator, it s not.
Fear is.
Fear is the most dangerous and powerful motivator because when a human being gets scared, fight or flight kicks in.
And there is this really separatist non-inclusive xenophobic, racist wave that is sweeping the globe that is making us pull apart farther than putting us together.The importance of leaders is that they have to be level headed, they have to be calm, because when people get scared, they lose their morality and that reptile mind takes over.
It s the type of thing that you see in all forms of nature, but our leaders can t be that.
For Smith, the only comfort he has in the midst of Trump s hateful campaign is his belief in America to know better than to elect the former reality TV star.
Once again shaming Trump for his remarks about women, Smith said: For me, deep down in my heart, I believe that America won t and we can t (elect Mr. Trump).
Of all the things he has said, and we could go through the laundry list, that was the one that was such an absolute illustration of a darkness of his soul.
I just cannot figure out how people can clap for that.
He added: I have faith in America.
America has had really critical times but the good (people) tend to make their way to the top.
Featured image via Jason Merritt and Alex Wong / Getty Images