When you think of civil rights activists, it s not likely that Glenn Beck will ever enter your conscious, except perhaps as a cautionary tale.
It does seem, though, that he s had a moment of clarity, even an epiphany.
The man who has played a large part in demonizing Black Lives Matter finally gets it.
At least he gets part of it.
He gets why All Lives Matter is a really bad response.In the past, Beck has been especially critical of Black Lives Matter, who he accused of inciting terrorism.
Beck s comments were sparked by discussion over Black Lives Matter protesters recent invasion of a Dartmouth College library, where the activists harassed white students, calling one girl a filthy white bitch.
They are terrorizing you, Beck said of the incident.
What do you think that is when when one of the girls, who supported Black Lives Matter at Dartmouth.
And she was in the library, and she was studying.
And they pulled her out of her seat.
She started crying.
Beck said filling people with fear is the first step to terrorism.
I think we need to start calling it that, Beck concluded.
We need to start being very, very clear.
In the past, he even led a march for All Lives Matter.
Things have changed somewhat, though, at least for Beck.
While he s still not officially a Black Lives Matter supporter, he understands why All Lives Matter is stupid.
In a news conference covered by the Washington Post, Beck relayed this analogy: All of us are sitting around a table, and we re all friends, he said.
It s time for dessert, and everybody gets pie except for me and you.
And you say, I didn t get any pie.
Everybody at the table looks at you and says I know.
All pie matters.
You say, but I don t have any pie!
What about my pie?'
Beck still says that the leaders of Black Lives Matter are communists and anti-capitalists, but he says that most supporters are not and that we really need to learn to speak to each other.For that, some conservatives are throwing Beck under the bus.
Blue Lives Matter accused Beck of pandering to Black Lives Matter.Breitbart.com, whose CEO was just named Trump s campaign CEO, didn t like Beck s analogy either: While Glenn Beck would like people to believe he s insightful, critics of Black Lives Matter don t need his hectoring, wrote Breitbart s Lee Stranahan, who is also based in Dallas.
The reason many people including black critics of Black Lives Matter like [Milwaukee County] Sheriff David Clarke say All Lives Matter in response to Black Lives Matter is to reject the underlying notion of identity politics.
Beck is not a supporter of Trump.
Is this a sign that the #NeverTrump movement can bring out a more rational right-wing?
Conservatives are certainly in the midst of an existential crisis and many of them appear to be soul searching.
Whether Beck has dug deep enough to find his soul or whether he happened to get his meds right that day will be sorted out over time, but for now, it s refreshing to hear someone on the right *sort of* get it.Featured image via J. Pat Carter with Getty Images.