Nothing says authority like an unarmed officer in a mob of lawless thugs Footage showing at least six Home Office immigration officers being hounded off the streets of Peckham has emerged on the internet.The short video shows two officers getting into a brief physical altercation with one man, pushing him back into the crowd.
Then another in the crowd is heard shouting I ll f*** you up!
I ll f*** him up next time .The officers, including a female officer, look nervous before getting into two vans and pulling away, to the delight of the mob.The footage is believed to have been shot on Saturday afternoon.
The video emerged first on Facebook on Saturday evening, and then on YouTube on Sunday.Rabble reported: we know that these raids happen frequently in Peckham and in other black and migrant areas.
And this is not the first time that they have been resisted and chased off.
Similar YouTube videos dating from 2013 and 2014 show scenes in Southall, London and the West End.
In both cases, opposition to the Enforcement Agency was organised by socialist activists.In a West End restaurant, the officers are shown asking to see people s passports and asking questions such as when did you get your British passport?
Pro-immigration activists with British accents can then be heard telling locals You don t have to answer any questions and Everybody is free to leave whenever they want.
You can just get up and walk out.
The officers are then hounded down the streets by a mob chanting Off our streets, racist scum.
In Southall, the Southall Black Sisters Against Enforcement shout UK BA [Border Agency] Go Away and Our streets, out rights down megaphones held inches from officers faces.
The two officers politely inform members of the crowd that they can meet to discuss concerns.Activism against immigration officers is encouraged by the Anti-Raids Network, which posted this weekend s video to their site, along with the commentary: The video of the incident offers a rare glimpse of the beautiful moment when often-silenced voices on the debate on immigration come together in a message loud and clear for those in power: enough of your populist racist bullshit, enough of your demagoguery, enough of your divide-and-rule tactics we live and work side by side one another, and we will fight for each other.
Elsewhere, activists writing for the website vow to show maximum solidarity with our illegal brothers and sisters, by actively opposing the deportation of illegal immigrants, who they claim are being socially cleansed : We have a vision.
A city a country, a world with zero tolerance for attacks and harassment by cops, home office enforcers , or private security.
Where if the uniformed bullies turn up to smash someone s door in, barge their way into a workplace, or stop people in the street, they get surrounded by neighbours and passers-by who know the score and won t take their bullshit.Via: Breitbart News