Could it be Hillary s scre-e-e-eching that turns them off?Donald Trump shattered the GOP primary record this year by 1.4 million votes.And he won more youth voters than John McCain or Mitt Romney.
Trump also received a larger percentage of the youth vote than the previous two Republican candidates.
GPDonald Trump has so far won more support from younger voters than the last two GOP presidential candidates and Hillary Rodham Clinton.A new analysis of the primary youth vote from Tufts University s Jonathan M. Tisch College of Civic Life shows that in 21 primaries, Trump received 828,675 votes from those up to age 29, and Clinton 766,425.
Sanders owned the category, receiving 2,052,081 votes.And, said the report, During the primary season, Donald Trump received a slightly larger proportion of youth votes than the two previous Republican nominees, Senator John McCain (2008) and Governor Mitt Romney (2012).
Before all other candidates suspended their campaigns, Trump was receiving an average of 33 percent of youth votes per state, compared to McCain s average of 29 percent and Romney s 28 percent in their competitive primaries.
And Trump received more of the youth vote than Hillary Clinton in the primaries this year.
Washington ExaminerRepublican presidential candidate Donald Trump has some youthful fans.
Students for Trump, an online movement to promote the business mogul s campaign, is powered by high school and college students across the U.S.The grassroots organization was started in September 2015 by North Carolina college student Ryan Fournier of Campbell University, the Houston Chronicle reports.You can follow them on Twitter at @TrumpStudentsAs of March 2016, Students for Trump has 40 state directors, 225 chapters and 5,178 registered members.
It is among 340 other social media groups advocating for Trump s presidential bid.18-year-old Josh Gremillion, a Texas high school student, said that the online group awakened his political activism.
I ve always been a conservative but never paid much attention to it, said Gremillion.
But this is our future.
Members of Students for Trump refer to themselves as an underrepresented minority among American students.
American News