Most black Americans can t stand it when white people try to explain to us what is best for us hence the term whitesplaining.
However, there are many white folks who, despite the fact that they ll never walk a mile in our shoes, still see fit to partake in this condescending and insulting narrative.
Once such person is Fox News Bill O Reilly.O Reilly decided to engage in this activity on the Wednesday edition of his show, The O Reilly Factor, with two black guests.
O Reilly s guests were a lawyer, Andell Brown, and a prominent faith leader, Rev.
Jacques DeGraff.
The conversation was regarding the fact that, for reasons obvious to most sane people, Trump is polling at an abysmal two percent with the African American electorate.
O Reilly, however, seems to think that, despite Trump s flagrant and unapologetic racism, black people should vote for him and other Republicans anyway.
He opined: Why isn t the African-American community saying, You know what?
We had a black president who didn t help us very much.
The Democratic Party hasn t really helped us very much.
Maybe we go supply-side economics and look for a guy who s going to stimulate the economy that perhaps would be better.
Why don t they do that?
This was after O Reilly tried to insist that Trump and his racism could be ignored for what he seemed to see as some greater good.
Brown, however, took him down fast on that one: Well you also have to look at what Trump has said and done himself, not necessarily being, as you put it, demonized.
She went on to remind O Reilly of Trump s racist tweeting of crime statistics that came from white power twitter users, saying, I mean, that was totally inaccurate.
And of course O Reilly did the same thing with that line that all of Trump s racism apologists do, and insisted it was foolish but still not to be held against him because well, duh, it was only a retweet.O Reilly then proceeded to do what many whitesplainers do, and insisted that despite Trump s obvious bigotry, we d be, quote, better off with the GOP and should just ignore their rank racism.
Rev.
De Graff had clearly had enough by that point, and said to O Reilly: Black Americans like any other group in America are capable of determining their own best interests.
And black Americans don t have a relationship with the Republican Party because of the hostile environment they ve fostered for eight years.
Then again, this is to be expected from the likes of Bill O Reilly and Fox News.
After all, they sincerely don t think they are racists, just because they re not into white power and Ku Klux Klan type activity.
To them, that s enough not to be a bigot.
Make no mistake, though one can be a racist and hold racist ideals without going full on white nationalist.
Further, whitesplaining is, in and of itself, a form of racism.
Then again, those who engage in that sort of thing likely don t care anyway, and will continue.
Sad, but true.Watch the exchange below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture