Recall that in 2016 a Muslim professor was caught on video [see below] explaining why cutting off hands as punishment for theft is a good punishment.
Bassam Alhalabi believes in Sharia law and was explaining why it s such a great idea and that it would cut down on crime.
Here s the video below:JUST TO BE CLEAR THIS MAN BELIEVES IT S OK TO CHOP OFF HANDS!
Where there is no Sharia, Islamic Sharia, they die in dozens and hundreds every day because of organized crime.
People kill people, other people or steal pizza for $10 and so so when Islamic Shariah is saying about capital punishment so even though it sounds like it is severe but if that is the solution to prevent any crimes, then it still has a lot of rules and regulations.
I will just mention one and stop here, which is let s say cutting off the hands of a person if they steal.
It sounds very severe.
It sounds very barbaric, I know.
But if takes one or two people to have their hands cut off, and then there s no more stealing and there s no more stealing in the whole nation that s a much better resolution than having hundreds of people die every day.
RUN AWAY, RUN AWAY!
THE PROFESSOR HIGHTAILED IT OUT OF THERE WHEN HE SAW UNITED WEST THERE TO RECORD HIM AGAIN!On August 17, 2017 Florida Atlantic University (FAU) Professor and President of the Islamic Society of Boca Raton, FL, Bassem Alhalabi, agreed to publicly defend the Shariah Islamiyya (Islamic Law) but ran away in shame from the venue minutes before the programs starting time.The title of the meeting was, Interfaith Cafe: Sharia Law and U.S. Law Nothing To Fear.
Dr. Alhalabi was to defend Islamic law, making the case that we non-Muslims have nothing to fear from Shariah.Deep down Dr. Alhalabi knows the facts are not on his side.
I suspect what Dr. Alhalabi fears most are Americans who are educated on Islamic Law and use Islamic sources with consensus/Ijma to distinguish his lies from truth.When those knowledgeable people from The United West showed up to film, Dr. Alhalabi ran out of the venue faster than you can say chop chop adios.
Dr. Alhalabi left his audience and event organizers dumbfounded.
We suspect the fear that he d be caught on video again might be the reason why.Via: Dr. Rich Swier