While we re really not surprised by the conflicting statements by Andrew McCabe, we just can t believe another type of conflict wasn t an issue long ago.
He took hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations from the Clintons for his wife s campaign.
It doesn t take a rocket scientist to understand that this is a conflict of interest and wrong on every level.
Please see our previous report below on McCabe s involvement in his wife s run for Virginia state senate in 2015.FOX News reports:Congressional investigators tell Fox News that Tuesday s seven-hour interrogation of Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe contained numerous conflicts with the testimony of previous witnesses, prompting the Republican majority staff of the House Intelligence Committee to decide to issue fresh subpoenas next week on Justice Department and FBI personnel.Investigators say McCabe recounted to the panel how hard the FBI had worked to verify the contents of the anti-Trump dossier and stood by its credibility.
But when pressed to identify what in the salacious document the bureau had actually corroborated, the sources said, McCabe cited only the fact that Trump campaign adviser Carter Page had traveled to Moscow.
Beyond that, investigators said, McCabe could not even say that the bureau had verified the dossier s allegations about the specific meetings Page supposedly held in Moscow.The sources said that when asked when he learned that the dossier had been funded by the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee, McCabe claimed he could not recall despite the reported existence of documents with McCabe s own signature on them establishing his knowledge of the dossier s financing and provenance.FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe testifies behind closed doors on Capitol Hill.
pic.twitter.com/GHjihJkmz4 FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) December 19, 2017OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON MCCABE:Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe is being investigated by the Office of U.S.
Counsel violating the Hatch Act according to a new report by Circa News.The Hatch Act prohibits FBI agents from campaigning in partisan races.
Photos of McCabe campaigning for his wife raised questions about McCabe s compliance with the law.Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe is being investigated by the Office of U.S. Special Counsel for violating The Hatch Act that prohibits FBI agents from campaigning in partisan races.The Office of U.S. Special Counsel, the government s main whistleblower agency, is investigating whether FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe s activities supporting his wife Jill s Democratic campaign for Virginia state senate in 2015 violated the Hatch Act s prohibition against FBI agents campaigning in partisan races.The agency s probe was prompted by a complaint in April from a former FBI agent who forwarded social media photos showing McCabe wearing a T-shirt supporting his wife s campaign during a public event and then posting a photo on social media urging voters to join him in voting for his wife.
I am voting for Jill because she is the best wife ever, McCabe put on a sign that he photographed himself holding.
The photo was posted on her social media page a few days before the election, in response to Dr. Jill McCabe s plea to help me win by posting photos expressing reasons why voters should vote for her, according to the complaint.Other social media photos in the complaint showed McCabe s minor daughter campaigning with her mother, wearing an FBI shirt, and McCabe voting with his wife at a polling station.Here is another social media photo of our acting #FBI director, #AndrewMcCabe breaking the rules by campaigning on social media.
#Corrupt pic.twitter.com/hBCH29yErY Senator Dick Black (@SenRichardBlack) May 9, 2017The Hatch Act prohibits FBI employees from engaging in political activity in concert with a political party, a candidate for partisan political office, or a partisan political group.
It defines prohibited political activity as any activity directed at the success or failure of a partisan group or candidate in a partisan election.
An ethics expert told Circa the photos raised legitimate questions about McCabe s compliance with the law.Meanwhile, Virginia Gov.
Terry McAuliffe s office released to Circa under the Freedom of Information Act documents showing McCabe attended a meeting with his wife and the governor on a Saturday in March 2015 specifically to discuss having Jill McCabe run for state Senate in Virginia as a Democrat.
This is a candidate recruitment meeting.
McCabe is seriously considering running against State Senator Dick Black.
You have been asked to close the deal, the briefing memo for McAuliffe read.Watch Sean Hannity discuss McCabe s involvement in his wife s campaign as well as his ties to Hillary s campaign:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z1R0Wb6f7MwIncluded in the governor s briefing package was a copy of McCabe s FBI biography.
The biography made clear that Andrew McCabe was a senior executive who at the time oversaw the FBI s Washington field office that among many tasks supervised investigations in northern Virginia.At the time of the meeting, published reports indicate agents in the Washington field office were involved in both a probe of McAuliffe and of the governor s close friend, Hillary Clinton s and her private email account.h/t Gateway Pundit