CNN talked to the man who conducted the study Donald Trump cited as proof that 3 million people voted illegally in the 2016 Election and Trump will not like what he said.During an interview with Wolf Blitzer, political science professor Brian Schaffner absolutely shattered Trump s claim that he only lost the popular vote because over 3 million people voted illegally.Trump s claim has been debunked multiple times and even many Republicans are embarrassed by it enough that they are begging him to stop repeating such a blatant lie.Blitzer asked Schaffner about the data his team collected in a 2014 study which found that 14 percent of non-citizens said they were eligible to vote.
Schaffner has since called the study unreliable because his team went back to talk to the participants and found that none of them actually voted.
As it turns out, they merely clicked the wrong button when answering the question.SCHAFFNER: Well, what the authors did was essentially use a question on our survey that asked people whether or not they were a citizen.
What we did was actually go back and ask those people again whether or not they were a citizen, and a lot of people had just basically erroneously clicked on the wrong button, and the people who we could actually confirm were actually noncitizens, they were basically no voters among that group.BLITZER: Either so, what you re saying, that no non-citizens voted as far as your study, your data was concerned, in those elections?SCHAFFNER: That s right.
We could find of the people who we were sure were noncitizens, we could not find any who had actually cast a vote.So Trump is literally citing an unreliable study as evidence of his claims, something that Schaffner finds absolutely frustrating.
It s very frustrating, Schaffner said.
The data certainly do not show that.
We published a study basically showing that the study that the data that uses our data to say that, is wrong.
That study has been widely cited by news outlets to basically say what the administration is saying is false.And the notion that millions of people could vote illegally and no one would have any data to be able to show this is the case is just absurd.
It s absurd that millions of people, millions of noncitizens, would have voted in 2016.
It s just it s just not even plausible.
Schaffner went on to concede that a handful of non-citizens may have voted in the election, but the scale of voter fraud Donald Trump is talking about is impossible.Here s the video via Media Matters.Indeed, Trump claimed that massive voter fraud was being committed during the campaign, only to be refuted by Ohio s Republican Secretary of State Jon Husted.
Our institutions, like our election system, is one of the bedrocks of American democracy, Husted said in October.
We should not question it or the legitimacy of it.
It works very well.
The idea of widespread voter fraud would require some systemic problem in our system, and so if there s a systemic problem, please identify it.
Don t just make an allegation on Twitter.
Tell me, tell the secretaries of state around the country what the problem is so that we can fix it.
But right now we re not aware of any systemic problems in our voting system.
Are there cases of voter fraud?
Absolutely, there are cases of voter fraud.
But it s rare, and we catch these people.
Most times we catch them before their vote is even counted.
And that goes for every state across the nation.
Trump should be embarrassed and ashamed.
And if he really thinks our election was rigged then we should hold a brand new election immediately and give him something to really cry about when the American people reject him.Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images