Misogynist blogger Daryush Valizadeh, better known as Roosh V., owner and operator of the He-Man Woman Haters site Return of Kings, is finally getting his comeuppance.
Roosh had organized an International Tribal Meetup Day, for men like himself who believe that women are nothing more than property, and therefore rape should completely legal on private property.
Some of the meetings of the rape supporting men were to take place in Seattle and Everett, Washington that is until the public got wind of this douchebag s plans.Outrage quickly ensued, and rightfully so.
Here are just a few of the tweets from citizens calling for Roosh s blood:This is sickening.
@SPLBuzz a heads up~ 'Pro-rape' blogger organizes meetings for men across U.S.Seattle https://t.co/caQ8OJraUd via Q13FOX Jasmine Boothroyd (@jazzvictoria) February 3, 2016Seriously.
Wow: 'Pro-rape' blogger organizes meetings for men across U.S. including Seattle, Everett https://t.co/ZFzd8nAmka via @Q13FOX Maggie Morse Howard (@MaggieMoHo38) February 3, 2016.
@ReturnofKings Your pro-rape, misogynistic, homophobic garbage is not welcome in Ottawa #its2016 #TurnAwayReturnOfKings Jim Watson (@JimWatsonOttawa) February 2, 2016Poor @rooshv having to cancel his meet-ups because people think rape is a bad thing.
Guess this is what it feels like to be "targeted" Kahn Johnson (@Kahnjohnson) February 4, 2016Proud to see a stance on #RooshV 's proposed meninist event on Saturday.
It has no place ANYWHERE let alone in #NCL pic.twitter.com/GBxxvn8WXk Ellie Radcliffe (@ellieradcliffe9) February 4, 2016Roosh V has cancelled his events because he cannot guarantee the safety of his supporters.
Now you know how women feel, you spunk nugget.
Kellie (@BigFashionista) February 4, 2016RooshV and his army of wannabe rapist have cancelled all those meetings fukin cowards lol papa andru (@netflixnwill) February 4, 2016Roosh V is a terrorist TWIABP&IANLATD (@twiabp) February 4, 2016When @RooshV says, "Let's make rape legal," is HE asking to be raped?
Because no one else is.
#fem2 #humanrights pic.twitter.com/r7p386Vi8Q Jon Hutson (@JonHutson) February 2, 2016And that is just the tip of the iceberg.
There has also been a Whitehouse.gov petition to classify Return of Kings group as a terrorist organization.
There was even a safety alert posted to social media by local police warning women to steer clear, and saying that there is concern that this may be a ruse to commit rape.
Even heavily conservative Texas Governor Greg Abbott has come out in strong condemnation against the group when he learned of their plans to hold meetings in Texas, saying in a statement: This pathetic group and their disgusting viewpoints are not welcome in Texas.
I ve spent much of my career protecting women from such vile and heinous acts, and it won t be any different on my watch as Governor.
After the outrage continued, Roosh V. finally released the following statement, announcing the cancellation of all of the meetups: I can no longer guarantee the safety or privacy of the men who want to attend on February 6, especially since most of the meetups can not be made private in time.
While I can t stop men who want to continue meeting in private groups, there will be no official Return Of Kings meetups.
The listing page has been scrubbed of all locations.
I apologize to all the supporters who are let down by my decision.
While your fellow misogynists may be let down, Roosh, the rest of the world is breathing a collective sigh of relief.
You should be locked up with the key thrown away, for advocating the commission and legalization of a heinous violent crime.
You are nothing more than a misogynist hate group leader, and I, for one, am glad the sane people of the world spoke out and made sure that you d be too afraid to continue doing what you do.Watch a video news report below, via DFW CBS below:Featured image from Change.org