Last week, President Trump made a public announcement to Americans and Hurricane Maria victims of the bankrupt nation of Puerto Rico.
President Trump used his address to assure Puerto Rican s that America s are committed to doing whatever is necessary to help them recover from the unimaginable disaster.
Trump went on to clarify, We are with you, we will stay with you and we will come back stronger than ever.
We are sending tremendous amounts of supplies, tremendous amounts of food and water, and we are sending people to help.
POTUS' @realDonaldTrump on Hurricane Response Efforts in #PuertoRico on Instagram, part of 9/29/17 Weekly Address.
https://t.co/dIfYMIztnn pic.twitter.com/oBNykqk11W Dan Scavino Jr. (@Scavino45) September 29, 2017President Trump, who is in the midst of dealing with his third simultaneous disaster took to Twitter to congratulate the efforts of our military and first responders for the amazing job they re doing despite no electric, roads, phones, etc.
The military and first responders, despite no electric, roads, phones etc., have done an amazing job.
Puerto Rico was totally destroyed.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017President Trump also retweeted a video shared by the US Coast Guard, sharing their efforts to help those in need of help in Puerto Rico:.
@USCG crews worked together with the @RedCross, @fema, and members of local #police, #fire and #government to distribute disaster #relief supplies, food rations and #water in Rio Grande, #PuertoRico, yesterday, following #Hurricane #Maria.
Full video https://t.co/4NtrRuY0HQ pic.twitter.com/QVcmuvBdpt USCGSoutheast (@USCGSoutheast) September 30, 2017President Trump shared a video on Twitter that was posted by Dan Scavino, explaining the progress the US Navy is making in helping deliver medical goods and services to the citizens of Puerto Rico:#USNSComfort en route to #PuertoRico, from Norfolk, Virginia to support Hurricane Maria relief efforts.
pic.twitter.com/HWkyFXw7uw Dan Scavino Jr. (@Scavino45) September 30, 2017Trump s Homeland Security chief echoed Trump s comments about the hard work and efforts of our military and first responders when she told reporters that the government s response to Hurricane Maria was a good news story.
San Juan s Mayor, who is relying on the efforts of President Trump and donations from American citizens, used her opportunity on Fake News CNN to trash President Trump and the efforts of his homeland security.President Trump hit back after Puerto Rican Mayor Carmin Yulin Cruz used her platform on leftist CNN to criticize America s efforts in aiding the victims of Puerto Rico:The Mayor of San Juan, who was very complimentary only a few days ago, has now been told by the Democrats that you must be nasty to Trump.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017Trump took it a step further and exposed the poor leadership of the Mayor, who, according to President Trump is not getting the workers of Puerto Rico to help with the aid and rebuilding efforts, suggesting they want everything done for them and are not willing to contribute.
Trump suggested it should be a community effort as opposed to American military and first responders doing all of the work.
Such poor leadership ability by the Mayor of San Juan, and others in Puerto Rico, who are not able to get their workers to help.
They .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017 want everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.
10,000 Federal workers now on Island doing a fantastic job.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017Again, Trump praised the efforts of Americans who are helping the Puerto Ricans:The military and first responders, despite no electric, roads, phones etc., have done an amazing job.
Puerto Rico was totally destroyed.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2017Mayor Cruz boasted about the response she got from private individuals after she trashed President Trump s Homeland Security efforts.
Joy Reid on MSNBC: Actually, I was asking for help.
I wasn t saying anything nasty about the president, but don t take my word for it.
Cruz then referenced 3-star General Buchanan who claimed that he doesn t have enough troops and he doesn t have enough equipment of what he needs to get the situation under control.
Shortly after the Mayor took to the leftist MSNBC news outlet to make clear that this is not a political issue, Dan Scavino Jr., revealed a dirty little secret about the Mayor, who has a history of tweeting hateful comments about President TRump even before the hurricane hit Puerto Rico.
In this tweet shared by Dan Scavino Jr., Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz openly states on Twitter that Trump does not deserve to be President .
@realDonaldTrump hater, the Mayor of San Juan is the perfect example of an opportunistic politician.
Go ask PR Gov about responsiveness.
pic.twitter.com/us3p78P9zK Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) September 30, 2017Scavino then went on to share the Governor of Puerto Rico s comments about the America s responsiveness to the disaster relief efforts:"The president and the administration, every time we ve asked them to execute, they ve executed quickly."
Governor of Puerto Rico Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) September 30, 2017Perhaps Puerto Rico s mayor thought she could get away with criticizing President Trump and no one would ever find out about her open disdain for our President.
Social media, however, has a way of coming back to haunt people like Mayor Cruz.
Shame on her for putting politics before the people of Puerto Rico who are so desperate for help.Hopefully, the residents of Puerto Rico won t be affected by the nasty mayor s comments.
They deserve better.
Maybe in the next election, they ll get someone to represent them who isn t so stupid as to make the matter of their survival a political issue.