Hillary Clinton, currently leading the race to become the Democratic candidate for President in Election 2016, made an appearance on The View this week.
She was asked what it will mean for women if the GOP wins this year, and her answer was perfect.Hillary was poised on the couch with the women of The View, when co-host Joy Behr got real with the candidate over a growing issue with the GOP campaign: their despicable attitudes and policies around women.
Behr begins, Women seem to be under fire right now more than ever.
She then goes on to list a number of worrying events coming out during the GOP primary race.
She includes the slut-shaming attacks made by Ted Cruz and Donald Trump against each other s wives, all three GOP candidates being in favor of a total ban on abortion (even in cases of incest and rape), and a female reporter even being thrown by by Trump s campaign manager.
It s frightening, she says What do you think will happen to women if a Republican gets in the if Trump wins, god forbid?
She added: What s gonna happen to us?
Hillary takes a pause to consider her answer, but when it lands, she really nails it.
Instead of joining the ever escalating war of insults which is what the GOP race has reduced to Hillary Clinton stays classy, and gets to the heart of the issue facing America right now.
He has insulted everybody and he has demeaned everybody, Clinton says, running us through a grim reminder of various individuals and groups that the GOP and Trump have taken aim at over the months.
I don t think the vast majority of Americans let s hope want to reward that hateful behavior.
This is the core of the issue for the vote in 2016, what do we want to reward as an electorate?
Which America is going to win in 2016?
The hopeful progressive version that brought us so far in the world, or the scared, envious, divided America that will lose it s way in a fast-moving world bent on progress?
It s difficult to recall a time where an election where so much was at stake, and our votes counted to much.
Featured image via screencapture