Republicans are poised to take healthcare away from millions of Americans, but incoming Democratic Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester won t let them do so without a fight.During an appearance on CNN with Jake Tapper, Rochester took on two Republicans over their pathetic ideas to replace the Affordable Care Act and she made it clear that she definitely belongs in the House of Representatives.Darrell Issa and Marsha Blackburn spewed quite a bit of nonsense during the panel discussion, with Blackburn insisting that repealing Obamacare would make health care cheaper and that nobody would fall through the cracks.
The goal is to make certain that everyone has access to affordable heath care, Blackburn said.
And then as you phase out, let s say the insurance components, Title I of the Obamacare bill.
And you set that up to phase out, so you get rid of the mandate, you get rid of the excise tax, you allow portability and you pass legislation of across-state-line health insurance and open up the insurance marketplace.
So Blackburn s solution is to strip Americans of the insurance over time and then replace the law with new laws that don t have anything to do with the current protections Obamacare provides.She also doesn t appear to understand that Obamacare already makes health insurance more affordable and accessible and that without the mandate many young Americans will simply opt out of buying insurance, which will weaken the pool and make insurance more expensive.Rochester responded by informing Blackburn that Obamacare not only makes health insurance affordable and accessible, it provides many protections that would be lost by repealing the law.
That was a landmark I will always remember, the Delaware Democrat said.
That was sort of like seeing an FDR thing in my own lifetime.
I talked to a lot of people in my state.
And everybody agreed that no law is perfect.
But to the extent that we ve touched every single American, everything from dealing with pre-existing conditions to discriminating against women for your coverage to your children who are 26 years or under being able to covered, there are so many good things.
And what I would hope is that we would come together and say, Okay, what are things that we can agree on?
There are parts to this that you can t just pull apart.
It s not that simple.
Issa, meanwhile, added his idea to replace Obamacare that has nothing to do with making healthcare accessible and affordable.
He not only wants to eliminate federal subsidies that would prevent low-income individuals and families from affording health insurance, he wants to strip patients of their right to pursue legal action if their doctor or hospital screws up their care, like removing the wrong leg during an operation.Rochester had a response to that as well.
I hope that we will come up with the solutions before we try to get rid of something that will impact all Americans, she said.
I think it would be malpractice, pun intended.
Here s the video via YouTube.Repealing Obamacare is going to be more difficult than Republicans realize.
Not only would they enrage millions of Americans, they d be pissing off their own constituents since many conservatives in red states also rely on Obamacare.But these Republican ideas are not a real plan.
They fail to address most of the aspects of Obamacare that people like, which Rochester listed such as requiring insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing conditions and treating women equally.Taking health care away from Americans while stripping them of their rights as patients does nothing but hurt people and it would cause the uninsured rate to skyrocket and return America back to the not so distant days when a major health crisis could cause a family to go bankrupt and lose their home.
It s time for Republicans to accept that Obamacare should remain intact and move on to dealing with real problems that need solutions.Featured image via screenshot