Successfully proving that we will kill ourselves before ISIS ever gets the chance, a patriotic gun owner decided that the only way to make shooting his lawn mower better was to also rig the lawn mower to explode.
What could POSSIBLY go wrong?
The short answer is a lot.David Presley loaded up an old lawn mower with three pounds of Tannerite, which is a compound used to create exploding targets for use on shooting ranges.
There s no legitimate need for a target to explode, but hey Murica!
Right?Presley clearly didn t read the instruction manual.
Sheriff Joe Chapman told local news that you are supposed to use less than a pound of the explosive compound if you want to make an exploding target and you need to stand at least 100 yards away from it when you shoot.Presley opted to use the 3 pounds and stand 25 yards away.
The ensuing blast of liberty deprived Captain Dumbass of his left leg below the knee.Lydiah Mays, Presley s neighbor really said it best: You would ve had to be on drugs or something to think it was a good idea to play with that and try to blow up a lawnmower.
Source: ajc.comWalton County Fire Rescue Chief, Craig League, also gave his opinion: If you hear a loud boom and it shakes your home, your windows, and the china in your cabinets rattle around, then there is a good chance one of your neighbors is shooting Tannerite.
Source: ajc.comLet s think about what he just said.
This must happen so frequently in the county, that he actually said in a non-joking manner if your house literally is shaking from explosions, someone is shooting large concentrations of explosives for fun.
Wow!How soon can I move there to experience this as well?So many parts of this story, despite the obvious tragedy, are absurd to the point of being hilarious.
Possibly the best one of all is the fact there is NOT a law against doing this.
You can t smoke a teeny little joint in this area legally, but you can willy-nilly shoot large quantities of explosives.
America F*ck Yeah.Featured image via YouTube screen capture