Obeying the law can be such a pain in the ass, at least according to the Trump organization.
With their hundreds of employees, it can just be so difficult to fill out paperwork to make sure that any gifts and money that comes from foreign governments violates the Constitution s emoluments clause.In response to a document request from the House Oversight Committee, Trump s company sent a copy of an eight-page pamphlet detailing how it plans to track payments it receives from foreign governments at the firm s many hotels, golf courses, and restaurants across the globe.
But while the Trump Organization said it would set aside all money it collects from customers that identify themselves as representing a foreign government, it would not undertake a more intensive effort to determine if a payment would violate the Constitution s prohibition on public office holders accepting an emolument from a foreign state.
To fully and completely identify all patronage at our Properties by customer type is impractical in the service industry and putting forth a policy that requires all guests to identify themselves would impede upon personal privacy and diminish the guest experience of our brand, the Trump Organization wrote in its policy pamphlet, which the company s chief compliance officer said had been distributed to general managers and senior officials at all of its properties.Source: The AtlanticLet s just add this to Trump s ever growing list of broken promises.
While it seemed that the wall that will likely never get built was the cornerstone of Trump s campaign, his real selling point was the promise that he would be the anti-whatever the right-wing media has been telling us about Hillary Clinton over the last 20 years.
Instead, he became everything the right-wing made up about Hillary and much, much more.Instead of draining the swamp, Trump filled it with a bevy of Goldman Sachs people.
He said he would take no salary.
He is taking one.
And while he did donate his first quarter salary to the National Parks Service, that s tax deductible for him, so taxpayers are covering the cost of his salary and the tax deduction.Trump is a grifter.
He might not have run for president with the specific goal of getting richer, but he s certainly taking advantage of all the opportunities the office hands him, legal or not.
Diplomats are staying at his hotels, just hoping that it will give them a special in with BLOTUS.
Since taking office, China has granted Trump 39 new trademarks.
Hell, just this week, daughter Ivanka took what amounted to a $100 million from the Saudi government to go to her theoretical foundation this after he was saying that Hillary Clinton should be locked up for taking donations from the Saudis for her actual foundation.If Trump refuses to abide by the Constitution the one thing he was sworn to on Inauguration Day, it s time for him to go.
Then again, it seems that with every move, with every secret he discloses, with every flirtation with the Russians, Trump is daring us to do something about it.