It s no secret that Donald Trump s second-in-command, Mike Pence, is a bigot.
He first rose to national prominence amid a sea of scandal over a sweeping law that he signed as governor of Indiana that was clearly designed to discriminate against LGBTQ people.
In fact, the law was so terrible that the state s largest newspaper, the Indianapolis Star, devoted an entire front page to a message to Pence: FIX THIS NOW.
After that, Pence s approval ratings plummeted, and it became clear that there was no way he could get re-elected, even after soliciting the help of the Koch Brothers, and therefore became Trump s running mate instead.Now, since Pence s bigotry is so well known, he is generally not well received at events where people have objections to overt discrimination against marginalized groups of people.
To that end, it should come as no surprise that the graduates at Notre Dame walked out when Pence spoke at their commencement.
Of course, Pence s fellow bigoted Republican senator, Tom Cotton, is fuming that the students had the gall to stand up for what they believe in.
Cotton told NBC News via a statement: It is especially unfortunate that students walked out of the vice president s speech on Sunday because if any young people needed to hear how important freedom of speech is to our country, it would be them.
I think the vice president deserves credit for speaking out on the spread of intolerance at college campuses and I know he deserved better treatment than what he received this weekend.
No, Senator Cotton, Pence deserved exactly what he got, and then some.
It s really pretty simple: If Pence wants people to stop treating him like a bigot, he needs to stop acting like one.
This is a man who regularly and openly expresses hatred against any group of Americans who aren t just like him and makes the laws to match.
Tell me, sir, if this were an overt racist or anti-Semite speaking at commencement, would you be defending that person as well?Didn t think so.
Bigotry is bigotry, and Mike Pence exudes it in spades.
Hopefully, he is humiliated like this everywhere he goes until he simply refuses to appear in public again.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images