There are a lot of things citizens of the United States can and do look for in a Commander-in-Chief.
However, it s doubtful that schoolyard bully is part of the ideal criteria for president.
There s really no better way to describe Donald Trump.
He s nasty, vile, bigoted, hate-filled, and outright nauseating.
The things that he says aren t okay to say in any arena of professional life, and they only reason he s allowed to get away with it is because of money, power and privilege.
If the words he uses were to come out of a poor person living on the street, you d think they were unstable, phone the police and they would likely get carted away for a lifetime in an asylum.For years, Trump has tried to perpetuate the myth that President Obama not only isn t a natural-born citizen, but that he s also Muslim.
And while there s absolutely nothing wrong with being Muslim, hearing it from a man who equates Islam solely to terrorism means he s calling our Commander-in-Chief a terrorist.Continuing this hostile fallacy, Trump took to Twitter to try to be witty, and posed the question: I wonder if President Obama would have attended the funeral of Justice Scalia if it were held in a Mosque?
Very sad that he did not go!
I wonder if President Obama would have attended the funeral of Justice Scalia if it were held in a Mosque?
Very sad that he did not go!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2016First of all, President Obama DID go to the Supreme Court building alongside his wife to pay his respects while Justice Scalia lay in repose on Friday, and Vice President Biden will be attending the funeral service.
However, this wasn t at all a jab at the fact that Obama wasn t unable to attend the service.
It was a direct attack on President Obama to once again perpetuate the myth that our president is Muslim, which in Trump s language means, he s a terrorist.
It s not even coded language.
It s clear as day as he lays down his hatred for Muslims nearly every day.This man has a VERY real chance at becoming the GOP nominee for president, which is absolutely disgusting.
And it says a lot not only about Trump, but about the hateful bigots in this nation who seem to think he s the right choice.Featured image: Flickr/Twitter