After the horrific murder of three police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, President Obama gave a heartfelt speech one that could have been given by any politician condemning the cowardly and reprehensible attack against those who put their lives on the line for ours every day.
Obama declared that justice will be done.
That, though, wasn t convincing enough for Trump, who stated in a Fox News interview that somehow, Obama must be in collusion with the murderers because of his body language.
After Fox & Friends host Steve Doocy read Donald Trump a statement from a Cleveland police union president which accused Obama of having blood on his hands Trump replied, Well, it s true.
I watch the president and sometimes the words are okay, but you just look at the body language and there s something going on.
Source: NY MagazineHere s the video:When the hell did Donald Trump become a body language expert?
Oh, he isn t. Body language is nothing but code.
President Obama is black.
To racists, and Trump, that means that he s anti-cop and he must be a member of the Black Panthers, just as all Muslims are terrorists and all Mexicans are rapists.For decades, and probably centuries, part of the country s narrative was that cops and black people don t mix.
Who can blame the African-American community, really?
The justice system has been rigged against them from the start.Of course, white people turn that around to prop up the image of black people as criminals; they only have problems with the justice system because they are lawbreakers.
Of course, that s not true (more on that in a minute), but that doesn t stop those on the right, including their leader, Donald Trump, from playing that particular race card with the highly educated African-American President of the United States, who must hate cops, simply because he has black skin.Here are the ugly facts, and they don t bode well for the justice system:If I were African-American, I d be pissed, but Obama is the President of the entire United States, a fact that has made some civil rights leaders, like Dr. Cornel West, turn on him.
Sure, Obama doesn t deny his race, but he knows injustice wherever he sees it, and the shootings of cops was unjust.
There was nothing in his body language but weariness from our seemingly increasing rash of violence.See for yourself:As for Trump, his rhetoric is only ginning up the violence, all while the President tries his hardest to soothe a nation being driven to crisis level, partly because of Trump.Featured image via Drew Angerer at Getty Images.