When the Affordable Care Act was in deliberation, Republicans showed themselves at their most heartless.
Essentially, their view is that healthcare is not a right and should only be available to the people who had the foresight to be born into a wealthy or near wealthy family.Despite the fact that overall, Obamacare has been wildly successful, even with Republicans putting up every obstacle possible, about 24 million people have health insurance and would lose it without the Affordable Care Act.
Republicans don t care.
One Republican, though, has a solution, but there are two small problems: it s not a solution at all and it s tantamount to child abuse.In an interview with MLive.com, Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) regaled the reporter with a story of how he waited a night to take his son to the doctor, when his son had a broken arm.
Somehow, Huizenga thinks that s a good thing.
We weren t sure what was going on.
It was in the evening, so I splinted it up and we wrapped it up, and the decision was, okay, do we go to the ER?
We thought it was a sprain, but weren t sure, Huizenga said, adding that he and his wife took every precaution and decided to go in the next morning.
When it [comes to] those type of things, do you keep your child home from school and take him the next morning to the doctor because of a cold or a flu, versus take him into the emergency room?
If you don t have a cost difference, you ll make different decisions, he said.Here s the video:Yes, that s the Republican line.
People should shop for healthcare.
Of course, that s possible with some procedures, but for most, it s not at all.
Besides, have you ever tried to pin down actual costs for medical procedures?
It s not easy.
Hospitals and doctor s offices aren t exactly known for offering full disclosure when it comes to pricing.
Many people in this country aren t lucky enough to live in areas where there is even competition.Beyond that, though, waiting to treat a broken arm so you can save a few bucks is child abuse and for those who don t have health insurance, there s often no option but to go to the emergency room.Featured image via video screen capture.