No matter what you think of former First Lady, Senator, Secretary of State, and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton or her politics, there is one thing that cannot be denied: She would have been a competent president.
However, thanks to a range of factors, Donald Trump beat her in the electoral college, and now we are stuck with the dangerous incompetence of Team Trump.The latest development after the three weeks of crazy that has been the beginning of the Trump regime is the fact that General Michael Flynn, Trump s now-former National Security Adviser, has resigned amid a flurry of chaos and scandal regarding conversations he had with a Russian official regarding sanctions before the Trump administration took over the White House.In an I told you so moment, Hillary weighed in on what was happening with Team Trump.
This comes after one of Hillary s supporters, former Deputy Secretary of State Phillipe Reines, tweeted a snide remark regarding the fact that General Flynn and his son, Michael Flynn Jr, had participated in spreading fake news regarding #Pizzagate, a false story alleging that Hillary and her campaign chair, John Podesta, ran a child sex ring out of a Washington, DC pizza parlor.
Of course this was not true, and absurd and ridiculous to anyone with half a brain, but some Trump supporters believed it wholeheartedly.
This resulted in a man opening fire in the pizza joint, a popular family place called Comet Pizza.Hillary retweeted Reines, and added her own comment, thusly:Philippe's got his own way of saying things, but he has a point about the real consequences of fake news https://t.co/a02sXiaHfp Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) February 14, 2017Of course, Hillary and Phillipe are right.
Not only have these lies from Team Trump come back to bite them, but said lies had very real consequences.
Keep calling them out, Hillary.
Trump may have won some key states, but remember you won the popular vote.
You also warned America that this would happen.
Godspeed, sister.
Welcome to #TheResistance.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images