The reason Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump decided to bring Sarah Palin back into the limelight is still unclear.
She was the poison pill for John McCain in 2008, and has made a career off saying wildly moronic things.The latest wildly moronic thing she said happened when she decided to blame President Obama for her son s domestic violence arrest.
She said: They come back wondering if there is that respect for what their fellow soldiers and airmen and every other member of the military have given so sacrificially to this country, and that starts at the top.
It s a shame that our military personnel even have to question, have to wonder if they re respected anymore.
It starts from the top.
The question, though, it comes from the top, the question, though, that comes from our own president where they have to look at him and wonder, Do you know what we go through?
Do you know what we re trying to do to secure America and to secure the freedoms that have been bequeathed us?
So when my own son is going through what he goes through coming back, I can certainly relate with other families who kind of feel these ramifications of PTSD and some of the woundedness that our soldiers do return with, and it makes me realize more than ever, it is now or never for the sake of America s finest that we ll have that commander-in-chief who will respect them and honor them.
She s more than implying that President Obama doesn t currently respect our troops, which is just an outright lie.
And it is also not the president s fault if her son may suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
Nor was it his fault her son was arrested.
Knowing this, and calling Sarah Palin out for this uncalled for and vicious attack, is the head of the New York City-based veteran s organization Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA).
Paul Rieckhoff said: It s not President Obama s fault that Sarah Palin s son has PTSD.
PTSD is a very serious problem, a complicated mental health injury and I would be extremely reluctant to blame any one person in particular.
Also stating: It s important to recognize that Track may need help like many veterans.
This is a great opportunity for Sarah Palin to sound the alarm about PTSD.
Now that she has endorsed Mr. Trump, I would encourage her to talk with him about it.
Mr. Trump s campaign is pretty light on specifics about what he would do for veterans.
Adding: I hope this doesn t become a political chew toy in a political campaign.
Reickhoff seems to really hope that Palin chooses to discontinue her efforts of politicizing PTSD.
Hopefully, Palin can recognize that she is a public figure and can use her position in politics to not just become famous, but rather promote positive change in the lives of veterans nationwide.
Outright blaming the president for PTSD is petty and wrong, and thankfully she was called out on it.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr)