No class and no decorum!
The always bitter Michelle Obama told a Salt Lake City audience today that we are looking at two different administrations.
THIS IS LAUGHABLE:One, she said, was built on hope.
The other is being led with fear.WE RE IN THIS MESS BECAUSE OBAMA DIDN T PUT AMERICA FIRST BUT MICHELLE SAYS: It isn t just us first, she said, a reference to Trump s America First agenda.
We live in a big country and a big world.
You can t just want to help someone in a hurricane and not make sure they can go to the doctor when they re sick.
HUH?Her remarks, part of an hourlong moderated conversation, came on the last of a three-day tech conference hosted by Pluralsight, a Utah-based company.She claimed things are tough right now and suggested we re being tested, Obama professed that she continues to be hopeful that the political climate will improve.
A BUNCH OF WHITE GUYS .
WOMEN AND PEOPLE OF COLOR Obama urged computing companies to invest in and hire more women and people of color Changing that composition, Obama said, will take encouraging girls at a young age to study science and math.
It will mean bridging the technology gap that persists in low-income districts.
It requires revisions to the public-school system.
And it warrants forming hiring committees with more women and people of color.
You can t just say you want to fix the problems, you have to mean it, Obama said.
If a bunch of white guys are sitting around the table trying to get more women involved, they re not going to come up with the answer.
For Utah s Silicon Slopes and elsewhere, she added, a behavioral change in the office environment at IT corporations will need to accompany that shift.
You can t hire women and then they come in and they re working for chimps.
No offense you guys aren t all chimps, Obama said to laughs from the crowd.
I call my husband a chimp sometimes, especially when he s watching the Sports Center.
I m like Come on.
Look at you.
You re an animal.
CLINTON JAB?
What Barack and I don t want to be is the people that won t go away, she said, finishing the event with a standing ovation.
We want to help the next generation come up and take our seats.
Read more: sltrb