As the Democratic Primary devolves into tense moments reeling from violent and threatening outbursts stemming from the Nevada Democratic Convention questions are being raised if Senator Sanders can, if he loses the nomination, rally his supporters behind Hillary Clinton.Media outlets and members within Democratic circles are worried a split party could hand Republican nominee Donald Trump the presidency on a silver platter.
Sanders allies have denied that his supporters or continuing candidacy could deliver a Trump victory, but nerves have not been eased.That s why Bernie Sanders has decided to personally call Democratic Senators to reassure them that there will be party unity no matter who the nominee is.Senator Dick Durbin, considered the number two Democrat (next to Chuck Schumer), said he received a call from Sanders, promising unity:Durbin, the No.
2 Democrat in the Senate, came away from the conversation on Wednesday convinced that Sanders, who has all but lost the presidential nomination battle to Hillary Clinton, understands the need for party unity and will do his part to defeat presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump.
We talked about the demonstrations and such, Durbin said Thursday in an interview.
I am convinced, as Bernie has said repeatedly, he is going to be on the team to defeat Donald Trump.
I don t have any question in my mind.
Also to receive a call from Sanders was Senator Barbara Boxer, who was verbally accosted at the Nevada convention and feared for her safety during and after.
Sanders promised Boxer he would work to encourage a non-violent, issue oriented campaign and work to make the Democratic Party strong.
In Boxer s words:He did phone me back last night and he was very distressed about it.
It was a very warm conversation, and I told him, he expressed shock that his people would do it.
I did tell him the vast majority of those Bernie supporters were sitting in their chairs, they were fine, But there was this group of 50-100 people, they were not young people, they were older people and he ought to check out and see, who these people are, and he said he would.
In my mind when he says he does not support any type of violence, I believe him.
And he s got to make sure it doesn t happen.
People will follow his lead.Sanders a few days ago talked with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid at the behest of Senate Democrats, a conversation that neither warmed feelings of unity nor fanned flames of division.While both sides have worried about unity, Sanders has gone on the record, multiple times, saying he would work tirelessly to defeat Donald Trump.
And now he has begun to call party leaders with reassurance that his eye is on the prize a blue White House.Sanders talked to other Senators who weren t named.
But these outreaches are reassuring in the face of growing, mounting tension.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images