Bernie Sanders candidacy is attractive to many different demographics.
He s extremely appealing to younger generations who are the future of tomorrow with his ideas on education and income equality.
He s also appealing on social justice issues like incarceration of African Americans and the plight of the Palestinian people, who have been under a brutal Israeli military occupation for decades.
There is one other demographic that is backing Bernie Sanders for president: the American men and women who serve in the military.Bernie Sanders is the only candidate who voted against the Iraq war, correctly predicting its terrible ramifications.
Millions of Iraqis have been killed, a once thriving economy decimated, and a power vacuum was created that lead to the rise of organizations like ISIS.As for the United States, trillions of dollars have been lost which lead to a recession under the Bush administration unseen since the Great Depression.
More importantly, thousands of our American soldiers were killed, and hundreds of thousands were injured both physically and psychologically.
The number of US servicemen and women committing suicide is alarming, estimated to be 50% higher than the general population.
Tulsi Gabbard, U.S. Representative for Hawaii s 2nd congressional district since 2013 and an Iraqi war veteran understands the price of war and that is why she endorsed Bernie Sanders in a powerful new ad.
She said:Bernie Sanders voted against the Iraq war.
He understands the cost of war that that cost is continued when our veterans come home.
Bernie Sanders will defend our country and take the trillions of dollars that are spent on these interventionist regime change, unnecessary wars and invest it here at home.
The American people are not looking to settle for inches.
They re looking for real change.
What I saw in Bernie was the heart of Aloha.
No matter who you are or where you come from in this country, we are all in this together.
Sending our kids to fight unnecessary and catastrophic wars is criminal.
We should be sending them to college to empower themselves.
Bernie Sanders has a proven track record of opposing senseless wars for decades.Watch the Ad Here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7QEy0mxfFaM] Featured image via video screenshot.