A group of Vice President-elect Mike Pence s new Washington neighbors invited him to Comet Ping Pong, the pizzeria at the center of a debunked conspiracy theory.
Earlier this month, a man with a gun stormed into the pizzeria and was later arrested.
He believed there was a pedophile ring in the pizzeria which conspiracy theorists say is linked to Hillary Clinton.
Someone could have died because a Trump supporter believed fake news which circulated on right wing sites saying that Hillary runs a child sex slave ring.Pence is currently living in the Chevy Chase neighborhood before he moves into the Vice-President s mansion.
His temporary residence, though, is near Comet Ping Pong.A group of Pence s neighbors, who call themselves the Neighbors Organizing for Power and Equality, posted an open letter on Medium in order to extend an invitation to the vice president-elect to meet with them at the Pizzeria.
They hope to have a conversation with Pence to discuss the negative impacts of fake news.
As we are sure you are aware, Comet Ping Pong, a beloved neighborhood restaurant, has been under a savage attack as the result of a detestable fake news story, claiming that the restaurant and its owner are involved in a child exploitation ring tied to Hillary Clinton, the letter reads.
This falsehood first appeared on so-called alt-right news sites and then quickly spread across the Internet.
Although it is preposterous on its face and has been repeatedly debunked by law enforcement, the story has provoked a deluge of death threats, menacing visits, and other threatening conduct aimed at the restaurant and its employees.
It appears that the threats have now spread to other small businesses on the block.
Now, your new neighbors are hurting.
Parents and grandparents are left struggling to explain to our traumatized children why a man would fire a gun in a family gathering place in the heart of the community, the letter continues.
Families are frightened for their own safety.
The letter said that by Pence meeting with the neighbors, it could help to bring an end to this madness.
By doing so, you will send a powerful message to the perpetrators of these hateful attacks that this baseless and dangerous campaign of hate must stop, the letter read.
Last Sunday s assault on Comet ended peacefully.
The next attack may not.
We hope you will join your new neighbors at Comet Ping Pong.
Please come.
Bring your family.
Vote with your appetite and conscience against the hatred and division that this controversy has stoked, the letter concludes.Earlier this month, the bigoted vice-president-elect s new neighbors began hanging gay pride flags outside their homes.Photo by Mark Wilson via Getty.