Donald Trump was once a Democrat, but that s no more.
Donald Trump was once pro-choice, but not now.
Donald Trump didn t used to hate LGBT people but that was before he ran as a Republican.
There is one enduring trait that has remained consistent for as long as America has known Donald Trump, though: he is a narcissist.
When his ego and his vanity are threatened, he does something about it.Despite this, on Saturday, Trump promoted senior advisor, former Breitbart head and neo-nazi, Steve Bannan to head the National Security Council, making him arguably the most powerful man in Washington.
Many are now calling Bannon the de facto president and the actual president:But a new executive order, politicizing the process for national security decisions, suggests Mr. Bannon is positioning himself not merely as a Svengali but as the de facto president.In that new order, issued on Saturday, Mr. Trump took the unprecedented step of naming Mr. Bannon to the National Security Council, along with the secretaries of state and defense and certain other top officials.
President George W. Bush s last chief of staff, Joshua Bolten, was so concerned about separating politics from national security that he barred Mr. Rove, Mr. Bush s political adviser, from N.S.C.
meetings.
To the annoyance of experienced foreign policy aides, David Axelrod, President Barack Obama s political adviser, sat in on some N.S.C.
meetings, but he was not a permanent member of the council.Source: New York TimesThe New York Times wasn t the only paper saying that Steve Bannon was now the most powerful man in the country:GQ magazine carried an article that states, In Case It Wasn t Clear Yet, Steve Bannon Is Our President.
Politico ran with The man behind Trump?
Still Steve Bannon.
And Foreign Policy writes about President Bannon s Hugely Destructive First Week in Office.
This is a good thing.
Trump wears his Achilles heel on his poorly tailored sleeve.
It s hard to imagine that he s the great deal maker he claims when it s so clear that he can be led by no more than his ego.
You stroke Trump s ego, you re solid, you threaten it, you re the enemy.
He s fired people who disagree with him.
He hung up on the Prime Minister of Australia Australia.
Since the election, Trump has bragged about his electoral victory, calling it a landslide.
It wasn t. He s battled back and forth over the obvious fact that his inauguration was an attendance disaster.If we want to get rid of the neo-nazi that s secretly running the White House, it s actually pretty easy.
We need to keep writing and sharing articles like this.
Our biggest weapon against Trump is to appeal to his ego.
Trump can t even resist obsessing about an unflattering Saturday Night Live parody something that every president since Gerald Ford has had to endure.
There s no way in hell he will put up with being demoted to second in charge in Washington, so we need to keep telling him that that s exactly what he is.
Bannon will be gone within a month.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images