With Donald Trump s clear and obvious racism over not wanting a judge of Mexican descent albeit born in Indiana presiding over the Trump University case, the ladies of The View had more than just a little to say about his remarks.Whoopie Goldberg being so blunt as to say: When you pick any group of people, and you say they are this, and they are that it s not that he doesn t know any better.
It s not that this is new to him.
He has been crappy about Muslims, and it s just about their difference, and the reason people call it racism is because it now falls under this umbrella it s everybody except non-white people.
With Joy Behar adding: He s running scared from this Trump University bit, because this is the exact thing that his supporters should be worried about.
That he s a scam artist.
That he takes money from old people, makes them go into their retirement funds to pay for his stupid university.
That he forces people to max out their credit cards, so they can go to his stupid university.
You can get the same thing at the Learning Annex for thirty bucks in New York City.
And Behar s correct.
Trump seems to be purposefully using the judge s race to try to make it about that instead of the fact that he is, in fact, scamming people.
It shifts the focus.
But at the same time we still can t ignore the blatant racism.At one point, Whoopie turns to the camera to directly call out Trump, and says: So, this is what you have to do, Trump.
You have to accept the fact that this is how our system works.
And if you re uncomfortable that this man is of Mexican descent, then you re gonna be uncomfortable with a lot of stuff, because it sounds to like you want to bring back the one drop rule.
That says if you have one drop of this, then that s what you are.
Trump is clearly racist.
Not only with this judge, but with his remarks about Latinos in general.
He s a bigot who clearly wants a white America, and it s horrifying to think he d be in charge of choosing Supreme Court judges when he can t even handle a judge with Mexican ancestry hearing his case.
We need to now, more than ever, make sure Trump doesn t win in November.Watch the brutal take-down here: He s running scared, @JoyVBehar says of Trump after his remarks on the judge presiding over the Trump U lawsuits.
https://t.co/Tbx6XbWK5Q The View (@TheView) June 6, 2016Featured image via video screen capture