Recently, Joe Scarborough has found himself the subject of, shall we say, criticism because of his insanely pro-Trump bias something that bothers pretty much everyone at MSNBC.
In fact, their relationship has traditionally been so strong that Scarborough bragged about giving The Donald debate tips.
Recently Scarborough was busted revealing his pro-Trump bias in hot mic comments captured during a commercial break.
The Morning Joe host can be heard steering Mika Brzezinski away from tougher topics like immigration in his effort to provide the billionaire with a softball interview.Following Trump s repeated refusals to disavow the Ku Klux Klan something that would be easy for anyone who did not depend so heavily on them for support Scarborough expressed what can only be referred to as disgust during a segment of the show on Monday: It s breathtaking.
That is disqualifying right there.
To say you don t know about the Ku Klux Klan?
Scarborough said.
You don t know about David Duke?
On Sunday, Trump acknowledged his heavy support from white supremacists, including former KKK Grand Wizard David Duke, but said it would be unfair to renounce the White Power Rangers supporting him until he has more information.
Just so you understand, I don t know anything about David Duke, OK?
Trump told CNN s Jake Tapper.
I don t know anything about what you re even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists.
I have to look at the group.
I mean, I don t know what group you re talking about, he added despite Tapper s repeated clarifications that he was talking about the Ku Klux Klan.
You wouldn t want me to condemn a group that I know nothing about.
I d have to look.
Scarborough called this course of action stunning in that it isn t buying him a single vote : I mean is he really so stupid that he thinks Southerners aren t offended by the Ku Klux Klan and David Duke?
Is he really so ignorant of Southern voters that he thinks this is the way to their heart to go neutral, to play Switzerland when you re talking about the Klan?
And to say he doesn t know enough information about the Klan to condemn them exactly what does Donald Trump expect to learn in the next 24 hours about the Klan.
Watch the segment below:Featured image via screengrab