Donald Trump gave a speech to the NRA, who then endorsed him for President.
That seems a little odd, given Trump s past support for certain gun control measures that the NRA wouldn t touch with a 60 foot pole.
It s especially telling that, as recently as 2012, Trump supported President Obama s attempts at reasonable gun legislation following Sandy Hook.
Now, though?
They seem to have forgotten.Back then, President Obama said: We can t tolerate this anymore.
These tragedies must end.
And to end them, we must change.
We will be told that the causes of such violence are complex, and that is true.
No single law no set of laws can eliminate evil from the world, or prevent every senseless act of violence in our society.
But that can t be an excuse for inaction.
Surely, we can do better than this.
Trump s response to that?Back in 2000, he also wrote in his book, The America We Deserve: I generally oppose gun control, but I support the ban on assault weapons and I also support a slightly longer waiting period to purchase a gun.
Those are both things the NRA can t stand.
Trump used to call out Republicans for walking the NRA line, and refuse even limited restrictions on firearms too, which is really all Democrats want.
The NRA, however, would have us believe that Obama is coming for our guns any minute now, and, if not him, then the next Democratic president will.
Somehow, some way, some Democratic president will take everyone s guns.We have to wonder when that s actually going to happen, since they keep saying it s just a matter of time.So Trump used to be pro-gun legislation, and now he s anti-gun legislation enough for an NRA endorsement.
The NRA has a short memory, apparently.
While people do evolve on their positions as they learn new facts, this is pandering, because the NRA willfully ignores the facts.Trump, however, must enjoy pandering, because he does an awful lot of it.He s also pandering to the extreme end of the pro-gun crowd, even proudly accepting an endorsement from a Sandy Hook truther back in January.
In March, Pastor Carl Gallups gave a speech where he said that Trump was the pragmatic choice for Christians.
However, Gallups website calls the Sandy Hook massacre a gun-grab hoax, and allegedly has evidence proving that.
He also said that there s no question that the victims parents are all fakes.The fact that it doesn t occur to the guns-everywhere crowd that Trump s support for the NRA, the gun nuts, and everything they stand for, is an illusion in order to gain support he knows he needs boggles the mind.
Of course, it s hard to catch the liar of liars in a lie, because he s got excuses for everything and he s good at making his lies sound perfectly reasonable.
He s very likely snowed the NRA here.Featured image by Scott Olson/Getty Images