ISIS supporters on Twitter are making open DEATH threats to bikers attending the Freedom Of Speech Round II event to be hosted today in front of a Phoenix, AZ mosque where two would be jihadists belonged.
ISIS sympathizers, Nadir Soofi and Elton Simpson were shot dead by police after planning to commit jihad at a Draw Muhammed Cartoon contest hosted by Pamela Gellar in Garland, Texas on May 3, 2015.
Freedom of Speech Rally Round II organizer, John Ritzheimer, a US Marine has become the target of ISIS supporters on Twitter.
They ve been tweeting his home address and requesting fellow radical islamists who are seeking jannah take action against him:From Seekers of the Garden site: Do you desire Jannah?
Are you seeking that unimaginable Paradise?
Deep down inside, your soul yearns for it.
Are you willing to go that extra mile to perfect your deen, so that you may obtain the highest level of Jannah?
If not, then what holds you back?
Does this dunya overwhelmingly fill your day so that you find less time to devote to Allah?Consider this: the Messenger of Allah, sallalahu alayhi wasalaam, said: Nobody who enters Paradise will (ever like to) return to this world even if he were offered everything on the surface of the earth (as an inducement) except the martyr who will desire to return to this world and be killed ten times for the sake of the great honor that has been bestowed upon him.
[Muslim, Book 20, Number 4635]The truth is astonishing.
The words are compelling.
The commitment only returns an immeasurable reward whose likeness is not found in this dunya.Here are some of the tweets and re-tweets on Twitter threatening the lives of bikers (and any of their children) who attend the rally today: UPDATE: The account of DAWLATIL ISLAM has just been removed from Twitter.
Freedom of Speech Round II organizer John Ritzheimer is moving forward with the armed rally.
Watch CNN s Sara Sidner show her blatant disgust for the rally in the interview with Anderson Cooper leading up to his interview with organizer John Ritzheimer:https://youtu.be/vDc_6nioI7o