If there s one person who definitely doesn t want Donald Trump to be president, it s the man who actually wrote Trump s Art of the Deal, author and Trump s ghostwriter, Tony Schwartz.
Schwartz knows, more than anyone, after spending a lot of time with the guy, that Trump s just absolutely unfit for the office of the presidency.And what better way to let the world know how awful Trump is than by using the Republican nominee s medium of choice Twitter.Pretty much day in and day out lately, Schwartz has been letting people know how awful Trump is and why he just shouldn t be president.
If you want to read his full Twitter feed, you can find it here, but for now, I m just going to go back a few days and show you exactly what he s doing.On July 27, Schwartz wrote: I broke the unspoken code of confidentiality with Donald Trump on Art of the Deal because I truly believe his election imperils the planet.
I broke the unspoken code of confidentiality with Donald Trump on Art of the Deal because I truly believe his election imperils the planet.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 27, 2016And it absolutely does, so Schwartz keeps up his quest of making sure Trump is never elected.Here are just a few more of Schwartz s tweets:In the face of social unrest and opposition, I can easily see Donald Trump declaring martial law and suspending the rights of ALL citizens.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 27, 2016Including this one that is pretty damning:Something I saw early on w/ Trump: most negative things he says about others are actually describing him.
Read his tweets with that in mind Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 27, 2016Why Trump s extreme Russia remarks?
Feeling small after two nights of strong Dem speeches.
Incapable of measured reflection Just reacts.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 28, 2016The Trump I know has never listened to anyone.
No one can tell him what to do.
Won't take any advice.
Terrifying in a president.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 28, 2016Biden on Trump: no empathy or compassion.
Over 18 months with Trump.
I never once saw evidence of kindness, or care.
He's only about Trump.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 28, 2016Trump tweeting about "poverty" and "despair."
Never once heard him mention those concerns when I was with him.
They mean nothing to him.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 28, 2016Trump now says he was joking re: Russia.
Here's what I know: he doesn't joke.
He is humorless.
What he does is lie when he gets in trouble.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 28, 2016Trump viciously criticizes others daily.
When he's criticized, wants to punch people in face.
Thug instincts, not what we want in president Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 29, 2016Trump's being criticized where he is most insecure his suspect wealth, his limited intelligence prompts him to lash out wildly.
Scary.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 30, 2016Donald Trump has made sacrifices?
Truly demented.
Trump has lived his entire life in privilege.
The only thing he sacrifices is wives.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 30, 2016Trump attacks grieving parents of war hero.
I sometimes wonder if Trump has any decency or humanity at all.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) July 30, 2016All I've been saying about Trump incredibly reactive, absence of heart or soul, breathtaking ignorance on evidence this weekend.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 1, 2016Trump can't apologize for anything, no matter how outrageous.
Sense of self-worth too fragile to admit he is wrong, even about the Kahns.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 1, 2016Fundamental decency.
In 18 months of following Trump around, I cannot remember any acts of care or generosity, unless to promote himself.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 2, 2016Trump selling copies of Art of the Deal for $184 to raise money for campaign.
Isn't worth paper it's printed on.
I should know: I wrote it.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 2, 2016Trump doesn t take advice from anyone.
Ever.
That won't change.
He is who he is.
He won't reset because he can't.
Tony Schwartz (@tonyschwartz) August 3, 2016And there you have it.
Please, for the love of all things good and decent, listen to the guy who spent an incredibly large amount of time with Trump.
He knows, and we will all be better for it.
Trump simply cannot be president.Featured image via Wikipedia