Lying?
If Bernie can successfully convince tens of thousands of college students to believe in unicorns, and pots of gold at the end of rainbows, why not convince them how well stealing from hard working Americans utopian forms of government work in other countries?
Who needs facts when Bernie s got unicorns?The Danes apparently have grown weary of Sen. Bernie Sanders insulting their country.
Denmark is not a socialist nation, says its prime minister.
It has a market economy.
Sanders, the Democratic presidential candidate who calls himself a socialist, has used Denmark as the example of the socialist utopia he wants to create in America.
During the Democrats first debate last month, he said we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden and Norway, and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people.
While appearing in New Hampshire in September, Sanders said that he had talked to a guy from Denmark who told him that in Denmark, it is very hard to become very, very rich, but it s pretty hard to be very, very poor.
And that makes a lot of sense to me.
So because something makes sense to him, he has the right to force that system on people who don t want it?
Isn t that what he s saying?But we digress.
This is about Danes being offending by Sanders using the word socialist to describe their form of government.
And who can blame them, especially when the free world has had enough of national socialists and Soviet socialists and North Korean socialists and Cuban socialists?While speaking at Harvard s Kennedy School of Government, the center-right Danish Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen said he was aware that some people in the U.S. associate the Nordic model with some sort of socialism.
Therefore, he said, I would like to make one thing clear.
Denmark is far from a socialist planned economy.
Denmark is a market economy.
Rasmussen acknowledged that the Nordic model is an expanded welfare state which provides a high level of security to its citizens, but he also noted that it is a successful market economy with much freedom to pursue your dreams and live your life as you wish.
To that we ll add that Sweden, another of Sanders inspirations, has for decades quietly moved away from its cradle-to-grave form of government welfare.
And the Swedes are better off for having done so, just as the Danes will continue to be better off as their government overhauls its welfare state.If Sanders is going to continue to use these nations to guide his governing philosophy, he should base his policy positions on what they really are, not what he thinks they are or wants them to be.
These countries have learned a harsh lesson.
They don t deserve to be Berned again.
Via: IBD