Radio host and frequent FOX News contributor Laura Ingraham and Fox News The Five host Kimberly Guilfoyle were seen leaving the funeral service for former FOX News chief Roger Ailes with Sean Hannity.
Kimberly Guilfoyle was one of the few women at FOX News who stood up for Roger Ailes when he was being accused of sexually harassment by former Fox and Friends host Gretchen Carlson.
Guilfoyle tweeted a message of support for the Ailes family on Twitter following his death:RIP #RogerAiles sending my love and prayers to Beth & Zachary.
Roger was a friend and a mentor to so many of us @FoxNews he will be missed Kimberly Guilfoyle (@kimguilfoyle) May 18, 2017Guilfoyle also bravely eulogized Ailes on FOX News.
It was her current bosses the Murdoch boys, who fired Roger Ailes, the man who put FOX News at the top of the ratings due to allegations of sexually harassment by Gretchen Carlson and later from former FOX host Megyn Kelly:Former Fox News boss Roger Ailes was eulogized in the town of Palm Beach at St. Edward Roman Catholic church Saturday morning in a service heavy with references to suffering.
Beth (Ailes wife, Elizabeth) came to me Friday and asked that I officiate, St. Edward Monsignor Thomas J. Klinzing told DailyMail.com.
She asked me to base some of my reading on the theme of suffering.
I believe Roger suffered quite a bit with those accusations.
Klingzing was referring to Ailes firing from the network he founded last year after fired FNC anchorwoman Gretchen Carlson accused him of sexual harassment followed by other women coming forward with similar accusations.Ailes coffin was carried out at 11am to the altar of the 90-year-old church, famously President John F. Kennedy s Winter White House church, as five members of the Palm Beach Police Department presented the colors.The ceremony was kept secret by Ailes family members and was attended by fewer than 100 family and friends, and took place with heavy security under the watch of three private security guards.The media guru and political strategist died on Thursday in Palm Beach, Florida aged 77.Rush Limbaugh and his wife Kathryn were in the front row.
Douglas Kennedy, a nephew of JFK who works at Fox News, read from Letters of Paul to the Romans, a passage about how nothing can separate a believer from the love of God.Sean Hannity read a responsorial psalm.
I wouldn t be what I am today without Roger, Hannity told DailyMail.com exclusively after the funeral.
He took me as a local radio host in Atlanta and gave me the opportunity of a lifetime.
He saw things in people that no one else would see.
He is an American patriot of the highest level.
For entire story: Daily Mail