Just when you thought Republicans couldn t get any worse, they go and endorse something Kanye West says.
And not just any Republican, mind you, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI).
You know, the man third in line to run the nation.Now, this ordinarily wouldn t be such a big deal, and we could just look at it as a politician trying to be cool by retweeting something a celebrity says, but this time around, the implications surrounding the quoted retweet are kind of huge.Here s the thing, Republicans love to boast that they re all about freedom and fiscal conservativism, but we all know that s a load of horse shit.
The only freedom Republicans want is the freedom to screw people over.
Whether it be by funneling middle class dollars to the top, or by using religion as an excuse to discriminate.
No matter how you look at it, the only freedom Republicans want, is the freedom to be assholes.So, when West tweets out, What is your definition of freedom?
There is no true freedom without economic freedom, and watching the person third in line to the presidency tweet it out as a good point, it really leaves most sane people scratching their heads.
via TwitterFirst of all, neither Kanye West nor Paul Ryan and his Republican pals are good with money.
West is currently begging for $1 billion from Mark Zuckerberg to help pay down his monstrous debt and fund his ideas, and Republicans think they can lower the deficit by bringing in less revenue and spending more or wars and defense.
Both can scream about economic freedom til they pass out, but they are the last people in the world to be boasting it.
Neither are good with money.Looking at this from a broader lens, though, these two may be the perfect pair after all, since they are seemingly so similar.
Both are braggadocios.
Both are bad with money.
Both think they re shit doesn t stink.
Both are extremely difficult to work with.
So, maybe it s not so odd that Paul Ryan retweeted him, but rather what should be considered odd is that Paul Ryan is thought of as capable to be Speaker of the House.Hopefully this isn t the beginning of Kanye s 2020 run for the White House.Featured image: Flickr/Wikimedia