We already knew Vice President Mike Pence doesn t trust those funny people in lab coats called scientists.
He doesn t believe them when they say global warming is a thing, he doesn t listen to them when they say the world is older than 10,000 years old, and he damn sure isn t going to listen to their goddamn propaganda they have posted about not touching stuff he wants to touch.Pence was photographed during a visit to NASA touching a piece of equipment adorned with a sign that reads:Critical Space Flight Hardware DO NOT TOUCH Fortunately for Pence, Republicans have a long-held tradition of being OK with touching things that don t want to be touched (just ask any woman who tries to get them to take rape seriously).
So he touched it.Vice President Mike Pence, right, gets a tour of the Orion clean room with Sen. Marco Rubio, left, by Bob Cabana, Director Kennedy Space Center, center, Thursday, July 6, 2017.
(Red Huber/Orlando Sentinel/TNS via Getty Images)Naturally, the internet is having a field day with this, with many wondering if Mother (the super-creepy nickname Pence has for his wife) is OK with him touching space things:Do you think mother approved of him touching this?
Do you think he had dirty thoughts?
Unclean.
UNCLEAN!
Steve Marmel (@Marmel) July 7, 2017Do you think Mike Pence is afraid to have dinner alone with spacecrafts?
(((Neil Kaplan))) (@NeKap) July 7, 2017The man tugging at his jacket to stop him is my favourite part.
pic.twitter.com/M9824I4eCp LayOffTheBooks (@layoffthebooks) July 7, 2017You expect him to read that liberal writing?
Reading is for lefties elitists.
Obviously.
Skeeter (@popculturelol16) July 7, 2017That s what they get for putting the instructions in quotes.
He probably thought they really didn t mean it.
Julie Leto (@JulieLeto) July 7, 2017To be fair most 6 year olds would do the same ???
Paul Neaville (@pneaville) July 7, 2017but now that he s touched science, does he believe in it???
BG the Snow Queen (@bgraymua) July 7, 2017Pence misbehaves when mother is not around.
B.
Justice (@zefirotorna) July 7, 2017I guess mother said it was okay Euchre Player (@euchreman1022) July 7, 2017Mother told him he could, so that settles it.
Gwendolyn Gee (@GwennGee) July 7, 2017To be fair, DO NOT TOUCH *is* in scare quotes, so David Pinion (@DavidPinion) July 7, 2017Fortunately, Pence didn t do any damage.
In a statement on Pence acting like a four-year-old, NASA explained that touching the surface of that piece of equipment is not going to place lives at risk:And here is our statement on touching flight hardware.
For more information about the @NASA_Orion spacecraft, visit: https://t.co/V2alO9n0Zk pic.twitter.com/maXQ8lri0O NASA (@NASA) July 7, 2017Whether or not he actually did any damage, this latest incident is just another example of how little regard anyone in the Trump administration has for rules, laws, or anything else that doesn t have a dollar sign by it.featured image via Getty Images