Sometime around 2:00 am on July 17, a man armed with a handgun entered Parrish Medical Center, located in Titusville, Florida.
He opened fire, killing one elderly patient and a hospital employee who was in the same room.As soon as they heard the sound of gunfire, two unarmed security guards reacted.
Even though neither of the good guys had a gun, they brought the shooter down, managing to disarm him before he could injure or kill anyone else.The shooter has been identified as 29-year-old David Owens, of Titusville.
Owens is charged with two counts of murder.The two shooting victims were identified as 88-year-old Cynthia Zingsheim, who was a patient of the medical center, and 36-year-old Carrie Rouzer, the staff member who was caring for Zingsheim at the time of the shooting.Police say there does not appear to be a connection between the victims and the shooter.
They are referring to the incident as extremely random.
Owens reportedly entered the hospital through the emergency room doors, then made his way to the third floor, where he started the shooting rampage.In a public statement Titusville police Chief John Lau praised the security guards who took Owen down, saying that without a doubt the two guards saved more lives.
While police have provided few details about the shooter, or a possible motive, the chief s comments indicate that Owen had plans to continue with the shooting rampage, harming as many people as possible.This is not the first time that unarmed people were able to bring a shooter under control, without the use of a gun.
As Addicting Info reported here, last year an unarmed West Virginia high school teacher managed to prevent what could have been another tragic school shooting, by talking down an armed student.
Before that, another unarmed teacher stopped a potential school massacre at Taft Union High School in Georgia.In August of last year, an unarmed U.S. soldier stopped a potential mass shooting on a high speed train in France.
In October, a group of unarmed college students took down the UCC shooter, who killed nine people on a college campus in Oregon and clearly intended to kill many others.As the LA Times reports here, there were just 259 justifiable homicides in 2012, compared to 8,342 criminal homicides using guns.
That equates to .03 percent of good guys using a gun to stop a violent crime.
Yet the NRA keeps telling us that only a good guy with a gun can stop a bad guy with a gun.
Featured image via wikimedia commons