Trump is lighting the Internet on fire with his response to the London attack, and not in a good way.
But, true to form, some Republicans are busy washing Trump s boots with their tongues over what he said about London, and people aren t liking that, either.
Texas dumbest lawmaker, Louie Gohmert, appeared on Fox News to fawn over Trump s response to London, and later tweeted how happy he is that Trump understands the seriousness of the problem and isn t distracted by people trying to be politically correct.Gohmert displayed his own sorry ignorance of the issues when he blasted liberals over our calls for better and more sensible gun regulations following mass shootings, saying that we re hypocrites because we won t call for bans on white vans and knives after the London attack.
He also blasted the judges who have blocked Trump s Muslim ban due to the fact that it s obviously racist and will do nothing to stop terrorism here.
He sides with Trump on the idea that we need the Muslim ban and that the courts have no right to block it (because Trump, as president, can do whatever he wants).But he had to top his bootlicking off with this bit of blind devotion:Thank God @POTUS understands seriousness of this issue & isn t distracted by ppl screaming abt political correctness https://t.co/KDPoI4fdLy Louie Gohmert (@replouiegohmert) June 4, 2017He wasn t going to get away with that.
As Twitter is wont to do, they piled on him and his ignorance of Trump s complete lack of understanding of anything, as well as for refusing to censure the biggest exporter of Islamic terrorism there is.Our embarrassing buffoon of a @POTUS literally is the one screaming about political correctness, you quarter-wit!
Betty Cracker (@bettycrackerfl) June 4, 2017As a Texan and American, wondering how one can credibly stand *against* terrorism while holding hands *with* Saudi Arabia?
SMD (@seanmfdineen) June 4, 2017Yes.
We liberals were just laughing the attack off, you simpleton dolt.
Crutnacker (@Crutnacker) June 4, 2017Quite the contrary, dt has NO CLUE on how to respond approximately.
The fake and clueless prez.
Sad Ren Ram (@MarcProust) June 4, 2017Political correctness doesn t cause terror.
Interventionist policies + radical Wahhabism from Saudis and rest of Gulf do.
FVR (@fightingvoice) June 4, 2017And also why all the golf?
SMD (@seanmfdineen) June 4, 2017He had a 30-day plan to defeat ISIS.
When is the parade, you inbred plastic shoehorn?
Witchfinder General (@Pedro_Loves_U) June 4, 2017Oh we understand Louie, @GOP wins by fear mongering and you are major Texass.
Tom Richards (@4politics2) June 4, 2017 Our Potus is only distracted by his own vices.
You ought to be thrown out of office What has happened to Texans that they would elect you.
JACarver (@YancyCt) June 4, 2017Crawl back under your rock Louie.
Paul Henry (@paulndor) June 4, 2017You are an idiot jlockett (@JLickett) June 4, 2017You are a human fart.
TH (@THVotes) June 4, 2017Glad he takes this serious enough to take in 2 full days of golfing.
Meanwhile no head of FEMA or FBI director to replace one he fired jimmi phoenix (@Phillies_chants) June 4, 2017Yep.
How Gohmert got elected at all is a mystery.
Having his head so far up Trump s ass is just the latest in his long, sad string of completely moronic moves.
But what can we expect from someone who can t see the forest for the trees and refuses to even try?Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images