As the last night of the Republican National Convention concluded, Donald Trump gave his acceptance speech of the Republican nomination for President of the United States.
As hard as it is to believe, alas it is true, and now the only thing to do is to move forward to make sure he never steps foot inside the Oval Office.Doing her part to make sure Trump never becomes president was none other than Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton as she live tweeted throughout Trump s rather bizarre speech.She started off by stating the obvious with words that were likely the inner monologue of every sane American across the country.
She said: We are better than this.
We are better than this.
Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 22, 2016Which we are, and come November that will be proven beyond a shadow of a doubt.Hillary then retweeted The Briefing and corrected Trump s claims of being able to successfully make deals.
Which he did, but at the cost of others proving the only person Trump cares about is himself.Fixed it for you.
#RNCInCLE https://t.co/2hZP2qRWNj pic.twitter.com/9zZll0Ftr4 The Briefing (@TheBriefing2016) July 22, 2016Hillary also retweeted The Briefing with their very valid claim that Trump s tax policies will do nothing but help the top while the middle class still suffer an unjust tax burden.Donald Trump's plan mostly benefits billionaires and millionaires like Donald Trump.
pic.twitter.com/KAWLrRTIhr The Briefing (@TheBriefing2016) July 22, 2016Then came Trump s big moment when he said I m with you, but Hillary fixed that, too, because he s with you as so long as you re not a woman, African-America, LGBT, Muslim, Latino, etc.
"I m with you*" @realDonaldTrump*Not included: women, African Americans, LGBT people, Muslims, Latinos, immigrants Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 22, 2016To be completely honest, the only person Trump is with is himself.
In fact, it seems he doesn t so much want to be president, but rather just prove to himself and his ginormous ego that he can win and be popular.
What a sad life he must lead that he has to go so far to seek approval and feel loved.Good on Hillary Clinton for calling him out every step of the way.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images