Kate Steinle is the wrong race, and she was killed by someone Obama is advocating for.
If they can only get FOX News to stop reporting about it, this whole nightmare for Obama s executive amnesty/votes for Democrats program will go away The parents of Kathryn Steinle said Monday in a cable television news interview that they support a proposal to give mandatory prison time to deported people who return to the U.S. illegally.
Steinle, 32, was walking along a waterfront in San Francisco when she was shot by a gun allegedly fired by Juan Francisco Lopez Sanchez, a Mexican national who was in the country illegally.
Steinle s brother also appeared on Fox and revealed to Megyn Kelly that the White House hasn t even bothered to reach out to the family.
Not heard a word, Brad Steinle said.
Instead, he said, we find solace in the fact that Kate was doing what she loved and she was with the man she loved the most, my dad.
WATCH VIDEO INTERVIEW WITH BILL O REILLY HERE:Sanchez, 45, who has pleaded not guilty, had been released from jail months before the shooting, despite a federal immigration order asking local authorities to hold him.Jim Steinle and Liz Sullivan, of Pleasanton, California, were interviewed by Fox News talk-show host Bill O Reilly for a Monday segment on The O Reilly Factor.The death of their daughter has fueled a national debate on immigration, with advocates of stricter border control and even some Bay Area Democrats denouncing San Francisco as a city whose immigrant sanctuary protections harbor people who are in the country illegally.Supporters of sanctuary protections have jumped on O Reilly and others for politicizing the death.
They say public safety is improved when immigrants can work with local police without fear of deportation.Steinle, who was at his daughter s side when she was shot, and his wife said the proposed Kate s Law would be a good way to keep her memory alive.
O Reilly is collecting signatures for the petition, which would impose a mandatory five years in federal prison for people who are deported and return.
We feel the federal, state and cities their laws are here to protect us, Jim Steinle said.
But we feel that this particular set of circumstances and the people involved, the different agencies let us down.
It ll be a legacy in her name and her death would not go unnoticed.
The grieving parents said failings at multiple levels of government led to Sanchez being freed, but they re tired of finger-pointing.
Ff Kate s Law saves one person, then it s all for good, said Steinle.Federal records show Sanchez had been deported three times before being sentenced to more than five years in federal prison.
He had completed another four years in federal prison when he was shipped to San Francisco March 26 on an outstanding 1995 drug charge.The San Francisco District Attorney s office declined to prosecute, given the age of the case and the small amount of marijuana involved.Via: UK Daily Mail