It s pretty much a well-known fact that real estate mogul, reality television star, and the current Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump is an unabashed racist.
Of course, he ll say that he s not, as most racists do, but actions, and well, words his very loud words speak very clearly his disdain for pretty much everyone who isn t white.
His rallies have become pretty much a who s who in white supremacy.Playing off Trump s frontrunner status and obvious racism was this year s Golden Globes host Ricky Gervais.
While introducing actresses Eva Longoria and America Ferrera, both gorgeous, strong Latina goddesses women, Gervais was able to roast The Donald.
He began his introduction saying: Eva Longoria and America Ferrera aren t just beautiful, talented actresses.
They re also two people who your future president, Donald Trump, can t wait to deport.
This was an obvious slam at Trump s position on Latinos, who he claims are rapists, murderers, etc., and he promises to deport them all.
Well, the illegal ones, but really, his constant hatred of everything Latino is pretty much racism at its worst.Here s the introduction from Gervais:Then once the women were on the stage, Longoria and Ferrera seemed to poke fun at Hollywood and society in general who can t seem to tell one Latina actress from the next.
And if you want to talk about under-representation in Hollywood, ask a Latina, Black or Asian actress about all the leading roles they get asked to play.The women begin, saying: Hi, I m Eva Longoria, not Eva Mendes.
I m America Ferrera, not Gina Rodriguezz.
And neither one of us are Rosario Dawson, Longoria continued.
Well said, Selma, Ferrera noted.
Thank you, Charo, Longoria responded.It was a subtle jab, but brilliant nonetheless.Here are the beautiful ladies via Vulture: In regards to Trump and his obvious racism, one person who made sure to thank the hotel magnate was America Ferrera herself.
In a piece written for Huffington Post last summer, Ferrera wrote: You, Mr. Trump, are living in an outdated fantasy of a bigoted America.
Last week, America celebrated some amazing milestones marriage equality, universal healthcare, removing of the confederate flag making it clear in which direction the country is moving.
That is why racist remarks that play to extremists won t change the tide, no matter how hard you try.
They will only serve to rally more Latino voters to the polls.
Your negativity and your poorly thought out speech ignited a fire in our community.
Thank you, Mr. Trump!Thank you for reminding us that there remains an antiquated and endangered species of bigots in this country that we must continue to combat.
Thank you for reminding us to not sit complacently at home on election day, but to run to the polls and proclaim that there is no place for your brand of racial politicking in our government.
Thank you for sending out the rallying cry.You have made your thoughts on the Latino community clear and you continue to stand by them.
And in return, we will do more than tweet about our indignation and beat pi atas of your likeness.
We will silence you at the polls.
We will vote and use our growing position in U.S. politics.
Our fellow Americans who understand and value our contributions will join us.
We know there is nothing that scares you more.The truth is, Mr. Trump, that your comments mean that you fail to see that immigrants are what have made this nation.
They are at the core of our ideals, and they are the foundation that keeps us afloat.
No, Mr. Trump, you may not reduce us to drug dealers and rapists.
We are moms and dads, sons and daughters.
We are valedictorians and honor students.
We are college graduates, bankers, police officers, entertainers, teachers, journalists, politicians and we are the future of America.Thank you for helping us in our work to energize the Latino vote and to usher in our shared future!
Keep it up!
So, while Trump s racism ignites the fire under a dying breed of racism in this nation of people who would clearly still like to own people as property, the rest of the United States in living in 2016, embracing equality of all races, genders and sexual orientations, and will absolutely wallop Trump at the polls if he happens to win the nomination.All in all, Trump deserves condemnation, he deserves to be made fun of, and most of all he deserves to lose.Video/Featured image: Hollywood Reporter