While Donald Trump is currently freaking out because he hasn t been able to find anyone to perform at his inauguration (which is just a few short weeks away at this point), master chef Anthony Bourdain is making sure he rubs salt in Trump s open wounds.Never one to mince his words, Bourdain first asserted himself as an anti-Trump celebrity when he was asked if he d ever dine with Trump during his presidential campaign.
Bourdain s reply was blunt and brutal he said, Absolutely f*cking not.
And Bourdain hasn t changed his tone about Trump, not even after the phony business mogul has been elected.
In a recent interview with Eater s Helen Rosner, Bourdain further confirmed that he is as anti-Trump as ever.
During the interview, Bourdain clearly stated that he was concerned about what Trump s presidency meant for his daughter rightfully so, as any parent should be.
But while Trump s presidency means horrible things for many people who aren t rich white men, Bourdain was able to find one silver lining.In stating that he would never attend Trump s White House Correspondents dinner, Bourdain stated that at least Trump would probably put an end to it.
He said: I doubt there will be another.
Thank god, that s an institution I d like to see die for years.
If there s one good thing to come out of the Trump administration, let it be that there will be no more White House Correspondents dinners.
It reinforces all the world s worst notions about the hideous, inside-the-beltway, all-in-it-together culture.
It brings honor to no one to have Kim Kardashian or Tara Reid sitting there next to a news anchor.
What is this all about?
F*ck that.
If I m gonna make fun of you today, I m not accepting your food tomorrow.
I had dinner with President Obama, but I paid.
We were offered Air Force One, and I said, There s no way.
No way.
Well, he s probably right.
Not only would there be several empty seats, but the only people who would actually attend would be swamp monsters just like Trump.
This is surely going to be one sour reminder to Trump that he is extremely unpopular and will never be accepted in the way that President Barack Obama was embraced by most of America.
You can read the rest of Bourdain s anti-Trump interview on Eater.Featured image via Astrid Stawiarz / Getty Images