As if the election of Donald Trump couldn t get even more disastrous and hypocritical, Senator Lindsey Graham just called on Trump to nominate a right-wing extremist to nation s highest court.All year long, Republicans have been blocking President Obama s nomination of Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court because they want the next president to make the pick.
And because they now have the conservative puppet president they have always wanted, they want to make sure that nominee is a conservative extremist.South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham told WYFF-TV that Trump should pick Texas Senator Ted Cruz as the nominee and warned Democrats not to block him, which is hypocritical considering how Republicans have treated President Obama s nominee and threatened to block any nominees Hillary Clinton would have made had she won the election.
I m here to tell my Democratic colleagues that I voted for Obama s nominees.
I expect them to give Trump s nominees a fair shake.
He won this election.
He will pick a conservative.
I would put Ted Cruz on that list.
If they try to block this pick, they will regret it.
If you don t honor Trump s nominee, you re making a huge mistake.
Democrats should stand up and give Graham a collective middle finger.Since Antonin Scalia died in February, there has been a vacancy on the Supreme Court bench that has yet to be filled.
The body wasn t even cold yet before Republicans vowed to block any nominee President Obama picked to replace him, going so far as to even deny Garland a confirmation hearing.
That s far from the fair shake Graham is asking Democrats to give to a man as dangerous as Ted Cruz.Putting Cruz on the Supreme Court would guarantee rulings against women s rights and LGBT rights as well as putting laws like the Voting Rights Act and the Civil Rights Act in further peril.
In no uncertain terms should Democrats grant Cruz a hearing, nor should they respect any of Trump s conservative choices for the court.
Republicans should have thought about fair shakes before taking the totally unprecedented step of being complete assholes toward the Supreme Court nominee of a sitting president who also won an election and s far more popular than Trump.
Again, Senate Republicans didn t even give Garland a hearing or a vote.
They refused to do their jobs entirely out of disrespect towards President Obama.
And so that s exactly what Democrats should do to Trump.
Turnabout is fair play and Republicans only have themselves to blame.Featured Image: Ethan Miller/Getty Images