Devin Nunes, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and in charge of the investigation into whether Russia influenced our election, says he has information that members of Trump s transition team were, in fact, sort of but not really under surveillance after the election.
He also reiterated that he doesn t believe Trump Tower was actually tapped, making his statements to the press confusing and conflicting.But the kicker here isn t the conflicting statements.
It s that Nunes shared this information with the White House before he shared it with the rest of the intelligence committee specifically, the Democrats, thus proving that he s way too biased and partisan to conduct a truly credible investigation.It seems that the Democratic members of the committee actually learned of all of this via the media this afternoon.
In fact, Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said the following about it:Today, Chairman Nunes shared information with WH still withheld from our committee.
He cannot conduct a credible investigation this way.
pic.twitter.com/wwrp7H7JWC Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) March 22, 2017The information that Nunes gave to reporters earlier today is extremely important way too important to withhold from the rest of the committee like this.
Here s what he told White House reporters: First, I recently confirmed that on numerous occasions, the intelligence community collected information about U.S. citizens involved in the Trump transition.
Details about U.S. persons associated with the incoming administration, details with little or no apparent foreign intelligence value were widely disseminated intelligence community reporting.I have confirmed that additional names of Trump transition team members were unmasked.Fourth and finally, I want to be clear: None of this surveillance was related to Russia or the investigation of Russian activities or of the Trump team.What I ve read bothers me and I think it should bother the president himself and his team because I think some of it seems to be inappropriate.
Oddly enough, Nunes also said that he believes that this information was incidentally collected, and that members of the transition team were not specific targets of surveillance.
He also believes that the information was collected legally, and disputed again Trump s claim that Obama tapped his phones at Trump Tower: No, no, no.
That did not happen.
I have said this for many, many weeks.
The fact that Nunes decided to go running to Trump with this information, instead of briefing the rest of the committee as he should have done, suggests he s incredibly partial to Trump.
He s still working on the assumption that who leaked info is more important than whether a foreign power just installed a puppet government here, undermining our democracy in one of the worst ways.
This is just ridiculous we need this turned over to an independent panel.
We can t trust Nunes to either get his info straight or to behave in as impartial a manner as possible.Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images