On December 26, the father of 19-year-old Quintonio LeGrier called the police in hopes that they would help him deal with a situation he felt unqualified to handle.During an interview with CNN, the teen s father said that after hearing his son bang on the door, he grabbed the phone and called the police, because I wasn t equipped with being able to understand how to deal with my angry son at that time.
The grieving father went on to say, I figured the police would know better how to handle an angry situation my teenage son was going through.
During the call, LeGrier described his son s behavior as a little bit agitated.
Far from assisting LeGrier s family, Chicago police shot and killed both the teen and a neighbor, a 55-year-old grandmother whose name was Bettie Jones.Contrary to police statements, we know from witness statements that the officer who killed Quintonio LeGrier opened fire from outside the house, shooting him seven times, from a distance of at least 20 feet away.
We also know police made no attempt to talk to the teen.
Instead, witnesses say they opened fire right away.
LeGrier s father was still upstairs when his son was killed.
His parents report that there are bullet holes in the front door of the family s home.The officer who pulled trigger, described as a former marine in his early twenties, whose name has not been released to the media, reportedly said, F , no, no, no.
I thought he was lunging at me with the [baseball] bat.
A neighbor who spoke to Mother Jones, identified as DeSean, also witnessed the murder of LeGrier s neighbor, Bettie Jones.One of the officers walked up the stairs and knocked.
Then he ran back to the sidewalk and drew his gun like he was in position to shoot.
The officer didn t say anything when he knocked on the door, DeSean said.
Jones opened the door a few minutes later, he recalled.
When [Jones] opened that door she was like, Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Like, Slow down wait, wait, wait!
That s what she meant.
He said there had been 15 or 20 seconds between when Jones opened the door and when the officer opened fire.Police have referred to this shooting as an accident.
It s clear from witness statements that there was nothing accidental about it.The police knocked on her door.
Waited for her to open, then immediately shot her dead.According to the Chicago Sun-Times,Larry Rogers Jr., an attorney for the Jones family, said police need to be held accountable for how they treated Jones daughter.
The insensitivity that was shown by the police after the shooting occurred is of extreme concern for the family.
One of the daughters asked one of the police officers, Why did you shoot my mother?
His response was Your mother s dead.
Get over it, Rogers said Sunday.
You know what s insensitive?
said attorney Sam Adam Jr., who also represents the Jones family, gesturing to the presence of Jones two daughters, LaToya and LaTarsha Jones.
They could at least send someone to clean up their mother s blood the day after Christmas.
When the doorbell rang, she answered the doorbell and shortly after that she was shot to death, Adam said.No attempt was ever made by police or rescue workers to provide medical attention to the two victims.During an episode of The Young Turks, published on December 31, host Cenk Uygur expressed outrage over the killing and the apathy of white Americans, when it comes to brutal, officer-involved killings such as this one.Watch the video here, courtesy of The Young Turks on Facebook.
// < !
[CDATA[ // < !
[CDATA[ // < !
[CDATA[ (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); // ]]&gt;Heartbroken Father Speaks Out After Cops Murder SonHeartbroken Father Speaks Out After Cops Murder SonPosted by The Young Turks on Thursday, December 31, 2015Following the death of her son, Janet Cooksey, Quintonio LeGrier s mother, asked a very important question during a December 27th press conference.
Who are we supposed to call?
As Cenk Uygur points out in the video above, calling police for help is the last thing we should do if a family member is dealing with an emotional or mental health issue.
Communities must come up with their own solutions to provide safe intervention services for families, that do not involve police.It seems one solution might be to organize community task forces, which would be made up of people who are trained to provide crisis intervention and mental health services to families.
Community task forces could provide families with an alternative to police involvement, saving lives and preventing mentally ill family members from becoming victims of an unjust justice system, in which the only options are generally incarceration or execution.As TYT points out, people who are experiencing a mental health crisis are more likely to be killed by police than any other segment of the population.It s simply not safe to call police for help in the United States.
It time for communities to come together to create alternatives that protect children and families in crisis, rather than causing them irreparable harm.As Uygur asks in the video, What if this were your kid and not a Black kid?
Our society can not continue to look the other way while our police brutally murder other human beings.
We cannot keep blaming the victims of these Gestapo-style executions, while excusing and defending the officers that kill in cold blood.Featured image via Facebook