Even though he s a RINO THIS is a shocker!
In June, Nevada s Republican Sen. Dean Heller tried to get the Pentagon to change its practice of banning arms from our soldiers on bases and in recruiting centers here in America.
Unfortunately for our soldiers, John McCain was the principle foe of the move and helped to defeat the arming of our soldiers, a decision that recently had deadly consequences in Tennessee.
Last week Nebraska Senator Dean Heller appeared spoke to radio host Kevin Wall on KKFT AM in Carson City, NV, to talk about his amendment and noted that John McCain himself defeated the move to arm our soldiers.Here is a transcript of what Heller to the radio station: Dean Heller: So I submitted an amendment in the Department of Defense Authorization bill to allow this to happen.
Now this was of course six weeks ago before Chattanooga.
And the chairman of the committee wouldn t support it by the way, chairman was John McCain did not want the amendment as part of the bill and wouldn t accept it.
Here is what Heller said on his website about the bill: Today, U.S.
Senator Dean Heller sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees, requesting that National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conferees include his amendment to give military base commanders the authority to allow service members to carry personal firearms on base for their personal protection and force protection.
In June, Senator Heller offered this amendment during the Senate s consideration of the Fiscal Year 2016 NDAA.
In addition, Senator Heller introduced stand-alone legislation to address this issue critical to the safety of our nation s service members.
John McCain made sure that the Marines who died in Chattanooga and all their brethren would not be able to fire back and save lives when a terrorist attacked.
How s THAT from a war hero ?
Granted, even if the amendment had been included in the Pentagon budget bill and passed, it isn t too likely that the change would have been made quickly enough to have allowed the Marines in Tennessee to protect themselves against an ISIS terrorist s rampage.
But that isn t the point, here.
The point is McCain saw no reason to even allow them to be able to defend themselves.
In the terror attacks on the two Chattanooga recruiting facilities we now see just how wrong McCain is.Via: publiusforum