Over the weekend, the white supremacist group, National Policy Institute, held their annual conference in Washington, D.C., and it naturally drew some ire.
A panel on Anderson Cooper s show laid into Trump for enabling and emboldening the white supremacist movement, because, let s face it, he has with his hateful rhetoric during his campaign and by being a complete failure at effectively denouncing them.Trump surrogate Kayleigh McEnany, however disagreed, claiming that Trump repeatedly denounced white supremacists and that the liberal media repeatedly takes him out of context: President-Elect Trump has repeatedly denounced racists more than any candidate in this race.
And if the alt-right thinks that they have a friend in the White House, it s not because of Donald Trump, who s repeatedly denounced racism, it s because of liberal commentators who completely take him out of context, who gloss over the fact that he has called out racism, and mischaracterize his statements like you just did when he said he called Mexican immigrants rapists.
That is not what he said.
Um, yes it is, but Trump surrogates live in an alternate reality, where his words aren t actually his words some liberal ventriloquist pretended they were Trump s words.The rest of the panel wasn t having it, though.
Journalist Peter Beinart, of Haaretz, shot back at her: With all due respect, I really don t think that s why they think they have a friend.
I did not imagine that Donald Trump spent years claiming that Barack Obama was not born in the United States.
I didn t make that up.
I didn t make up the fact that Donald Trump responded to the San Bernardino attack by calling for a halt to Muslim immigration into the United States.You are the one who, at every turn, has tried to defend the indefensible about this man.
Oh, burn!
McEnany apparently didn t like that, because she changed tactics and tried to invoke Reagan in a horribly wrong way, given Matt Lews, of The Daily Caller, said Reagan denounced bigotry and racism.
She just gave us another demonstration of how Trump lovers have to grasp at any straw there is in order to defend their lord and savior, King Cheeto.
She really sounds like a spin artist instead of someone who really understands what s happening.Watch the whole exchange below:Featured image via screen capture from embedded video