Even though alleged president Donald Trump s executive order banning seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the U.S. has caused widespread panic, he told Fox News host Bill O Reilly on Sunday that the move was going smoothly.
Trump s fake news facts failed to mention that his poorly worded order sent the world into chaos.When O Reilly asked the man-baby POTUS how the travel ban worked out following the executive order, Trump said, I think it was very smooth.
You had 109 people out of hundreds of thousands of travelers and all we did was vet those people very, very carefully.
Actually, that s not true and we re sure you re shocked.
60,000 visas were revoked following his Muslim ban.Press Secretary Sean Spicer also echoed Trump s claims previously that only 109 people were affected by his travel ban on the seven Muslim countries even though that claim was disproved.Facts matter:While DHS estimates suggest that around 375 travelers who were in transit were stranded or detained, thousands of refugees were put into limbo when Trump scuttled the U.S. refugee program.During the jaw-dropping interview in which even a Fox News host challenged him, Trump insisted multiple times that the executive order was implemented in a smooth fashion and only 109 people were affected.In that same interview, Trump was asked by the Fox News host why he respects Vladimir Putin.
O Reilly said, He s a killer and the host was not lying.
Still yet, Trump said, There are a lot of killers.
You think our country s so innocent?
Watch:President Trump Bannon also said he s against sanctuary cities.From there, Trump went into the same dangerous territory his team keeps venturing into.
He wants to prove he won the popular vote, but he s doing so without proof.
O Reilly told him he needs data to back him up his claim that 3 million people voted for in the 2016 U.S. presidential election illegally, Trump insisted that Mike Pence will set up a commission to investigate the widespread voter fraud which has already been debunked.Image via screen capture.