When President Obama took office in January of 2009, the United States of America was on the brink of utter economic collapse.
Jobs were being lost at the rate of 750K per month, but have made consistent gains throughout all of Obama s tenure as Commander-in-Chief.
Part of bringing us back from the worst recession since the Great Depression included several Wall Street reforms and a Credit Card Bill of Rights.Clearly, we ve come along way from the financial crisis that took place from 2007-2009, and sure, we have a long way to go to ensure that sort of crisis doesn t happen again, but President Obama had some choice words for those who claim he s been soft on Wall Street.On Monday, while standing with Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and several other top regulators, the president stated: I want to emphasize this because it is popular in the media and the political discourse, both on the left and the right, to suggest that the crisis happened and nothing happened.
That is not true.
I want to dispel the notion that exists both on the left and on the right that somehow, after the crisis, nothing happened.
We did not just rebuild this, we rebuilt it better, and we ve rebuilt it stronger.
According to Reuters: Obama said regulators appear set by the end of the year to have achieved most of the goals he set out for the financial system in 2008, when he first took office, although he noted there was still work to do on rules for hedge funds and asset managers in what he called the shadow banking system.
He then explained why that work hasn t been done yet: One of our projects is to make sure that we are covering some of those potential gaps.
We may need at some point help from Congress to do that.
Which is exactly right.
In order for those gaps to be filled we need Congress to cooperate, and it s not enough to just blame leadership, we have to hold our Congresspeople accountable.
That s why elections, and not just presidential elections, matter so much.
Republicans want to weaken regulations and make it possible for the practices that caused the financial crisis to occur, to create a future crisis.
If anything, we need to embrace and expand President Obama ideas and goals on Wall Street, not condemn them.
He has every right to be mad at those claiming he s done nothing, because that s an outright lie.Featured image: White House flickr