John Kerry insinuated that war would be more likely if the Iran Deal wasn t done but military experts are saying the exact opposite.
I would have to agree with those who really know what they re talking about military leaders and intelligence officials.The nuclear agreement with Iran will increase the likelihood of military conflict, according to a council of prominent retired military leaders and intelligence officials.The Jewish Institute for National Security Affair s (JINSA) Iran Strategy Council released a report Wednesday that contends that the United States will be in a far worse position to prevent a nuclear Iran after 10 to 15 years of the agreement regarding Tehran s nuclear capacity, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).
Implementing JCPOA will have significant strategic consequences for our interests and allies in the region, retired Gen. James Conway and retired Air Force Gen. Chuck Wald, who together chair the council, said in a statement.According to the report, the agreement increases both the probability and danger of hostilities with Iran.
The report also suggests that the deal will allow Iran to grow more militarily capable over the next decade as the United States sees an erosion of its own forces.
The United States is in a far better position to prevent a nuclear Iran today, even by military means if necessary, than when the JCPOA sunsets, the authors say.
The strategic environment will grow much more treacherous in the next 15 years.
Comparatively, Iran will be economically stronger, regionally more powerful and militarily more capable, while the United States will have a smaller, less capable fighting force, diminished credibility and fewer allies.
On a conference call with reporters Wednesday, Conway warned that the nuclear deal will unleash Iran in ways that we have not yet witnessed.
The billions Iran will receive in sanctions relief, he said, would allow the country to bolster its military and conduct nefarious activity.
Indeed, the report argues that the deal will provide Iran with the means to increase support for terrorist and insurgent proxies, aggravate sectarian conflict and trigger both nuclear and conventional proliferation cascades in the Middle East.Conway suggested that the finalized deal would do nothing to discourage Iran from funding terrorism or prevent Iranians from dispersing anti-American rhetoric.
A few days after they sign the deal, they re still chanting Death to America, the retired general said.Via: WFB