President Obama typically refrains from outright blasting the f*ck out of Donald Trump, but he made an exception on Thursday as Republicans prepare to strip healthcare from millions of our most vulnerable Americans.On Facebook, Obama urged Republicans to reject Trumpcare and all it has to offer (which isn t much).
I recognize that repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act has become a core tenet of the Republican Party, Obama said.
Still, I hope that our Senators, many of whom I know well, step back and measure what s really at stake, and consider that the rationale for action, on health care or any other issue, must be something more than simply undoing something that Democrats did.
The Senate bill, unveiled today, is not a health care bill.
It s a massive transfer of wealth from middle-class and poor families to the richest people in America, he continued.
It hands enormous tax cuts to the rich and to the drug and insurance industries, paid for by cutting health care for everybody else.
Simply put, if there s a chance you might get sick, get old, or start a family this bill will do you harm.
And small tweaks over the course of the next couple weeks, under the guise of making these bills easier to stomach, cannot change the fundamental meanness at the core of this legislation.
That s the key word meanness.
Trumpcare is designed not to help Americans, but to provide massive tax cuts for the richest Americans while leaving the rest of us to suffer.
This debate has always been about something bigger than politics, Obama added.
It s about the character of our country who we are, and who we aspire to be.
And that s always worth fighting for.
Read the post below:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Our politics are divided.
They have been for a long time.
And while I know that division makes it difficult to listen Posted by Barack Obama on Thursday, June 22, 2017Featured image via Getty Images/screengrab