Tensions ran high outside of a campaign rally for Donald Trump in St. Louis, Missouri.
Thousands of Trump supporters waited outside in line to see the Republican primary front-runner speak at the Peabody Opera House located in the downtown area of St. Louis.According to the St. Louis Dispatch, protestors were also in attendance at the campaign rally.
They report: Supporters wore red Trump hats, waved American flags, and bought T-shirts and buttons from concession stands up set up around the perimeter.
Protesters held up signs to crying hatred and, in a few cases, comparing Trump to Adolf Hitler.
We re just trying to join with the Muslim community saying hate speech has no place here, said Jay Kanzler, an Episcopal priest and attorney who was among the protestors.
We stand with our Muslim American bothers and sisters, our Jewish brothers and sisters, our Christian brothers and sisters for this community.
We re not going to let Donald Trump s hate speech divide us.
This lead to a near all-out race riot between Trump supporters and protestors.
A man can be seen in video footage being escorted away from the event by police.
The man was assaulted by insults from Trump s supporters waiting in line.One Trump fan screams at the man, saying: Hey, f*ck Islam!
Allah is a wh*re!
Jesus is the most high god and you b*tches are done.
So f*ck Islam.
Here is the video:This guy though #TrumpRally pic.twitter.com/cfTUHfAVWu Marissa (@southards_3) March 11, 2016Another video shows a young male Trump supporter try to start a fistfight with the protestors.
He walks up to them reputedly telling them to You mother f*fuckers wanna go.
Bring It Battle lines drawn at Trump rally pic.twitter.com/Y9yRTnjOAm Trymaine Lee (@trymainelee) March 11, 2016Police are get involved.The first arrest.
A yelling match nearly turned into a fistfight.
The crowd cheered as they dragged him away.
pic.twitter.com/YzTsrTApQo Trymaine Lee (@trymainelee) March 11, 2016More violent actions from Trump supporters.My mother told me to NEVER put hands on a woman pic.twitter.com/tRXqm0aXN9 Junius Randolph (@JuniusRandolph) March 11, 2016Trump supporters calling a woman a wh*re.Hard to believe that anyone would get assaulted at rallies with these sorts of attendees pic.twitter.com/ShhTKouFwL Lachlan Markay (@lachlan) March 11, 2016Protestor screams F*ck Donald Trump .Here we go again at the St. Louis Trump rally pic.twitter.com/BFcQ5s2TxU Junius Randolph (@JuniusRandolph) March 11, 2016This is only the latest incident to prove that Trump and his racist, fascist, supporters are tearing the United States apart.Featured image from video screenshot via Twitter