We are now down to the wire in the all-important and hotly contested 2016 election.
Everyone has crawled into their corners, and in this most bizarre and contentious year, we re all ready to end it already.
People have lost friends, relationships have ended the tone of this campaign has been good for no one.
That is all due to one man s toxic rise to the top of the GOP presidential ticket: Donald Trump.There s one thing that we all need to remember, though: This was no accident.
Trump is a classic demagogue.
He has brought out the worst in the entire country, has appealed to people s deepest, basest levels of prejudice, hate, and fear.
He s made those of us who are minorities feel especially vulnerable, because we know what is really at stake here.
Well, comedian Bill Maher has a very important message regarding all of this and especially the rise of Donald Trump no matter which side of the political aisle you fall on.Maher, like most liberals, has spent years excoriating the GOP for their bigotry, lack of belief in science, religious fanaticism, war- mongering, and fantasy economic proposals.
However, he says he was wrong.
Men like Mitt Romney and John McCain were nowhere near as dangerous as Trump.
To that end, he had this to say the the nation on Friday night s edition of his HBO program Real Time: So I ve heard these young people on the news they say things like Donald Trump I don t like him but Hillary, I can t vote for a liar.
First of all, it s just apples, and oranges and orange.
After those opening lines, Maher got uncharacteristically grave and serious, saying: This is different.
I promise it, this will not make your life better.
And also, once fascists get power, they don t give it up.
You ve got President Trump for life.
I know liberals made a big mistake because we attacked your boy [George W.] Bush like he was the end of the world, and he wasn t. And Mitt Romney we attacked that way.
I gave Obama a million dollars because I was so afraid of Mitt Romney.
Maher then went on to offer olive branches to Republicans, while giving a warning about Trump: They were honorable men who we disagreed with and we should have kept it that way.
So we cried wolf and that was wrong.
But this is real.
This is going to be way different.
Bill Maher is right.
Donald Trump is a dangerous demagogue.
He s a literal fascist who has shown that he cares not about the Constitution, civil liberties, or any of the things we have come to take for granted as Americans.
Trump is Hitler-level dangerous.
Just like they treated the last Fuhrer as a clown and a buffoon prior to his rise, just as establishment types thought they could control him and use him as a puppet to get him elected so is the same with Trump.
Those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it.America don t make Germany s mistakes.
This man is not who you think he is.
I promise, we ll all live to regret it if we elect him.Watch Bill Maher s all too correct warning below:[ad3media campaign= 1311 ]Featured image via video screen capture