Michael Moore has joined others in calling for U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch to investigate Michigan s Republican Governor Rick Snyder for not preventing lead from contaminating the city of Flint s water system.
Moore was born and raised in Flint, MI.
His first documentary film, Roger & Me, chronicles the downfall of Flint and explains how its demise was orchestrated by big business and conservative policy.Moore posted a photo of himself on social media that shows him holding a pair of handcuffs.
In his other hand, Moore is holding up a sign which reads, #ArrestGovSnyder.
Activists have been using the hash tag to call attention to Flint s water crisis, and Snyder s culpability in the matter.https://www.facebook.com/mmflint/photos/a.10150288227701857.331023.24674986856/10153223367636857/?type=3&theaterAccompanying the photo, is a letter written by Moore condemning Snyder over the crisis.
Moore Writes: Dear Governor Snyder:Thanks to you, sir, and the premeditated actions of your administrators, you have effectively poisoned, not just some, but apparently ALL of the children in my hometown of Flint, Michigan.And for that, you have to go to jail.To poison all the children in an historic American city is no small feat.
Even international terrorist organizations haven t figured out yet how to do something on a magnitude like this.By taking away the city s clean drinking water in order to cut costs, and then switching the city s water supply to Flint River water, you have allowed massively unsafe levels of pollutants and lead into the water that travels in to everyone s home.
Every Flint resident is trapped by this environmental nightmare which you, Governor, have created.
Moore argues that Snyder is a criminal, and should be arrested for switching the city s water source to the Flint River, which caused the contamination.
Moore argues: Like any real criminal, when you were confronted with the truth (by the EPA and other leading water experts across America), you denied what you did.
Even worse, you decided to mock your accusers and their findings.
As I said, I know you don t like to believe in a lot of science (after all, you used to run Gateway Computers, and that, really, is all anyone needs to know about you), but this time the science has caught up with you and this time, I hope, it s going to convict you.
Other celebrities have been quick to fire off on Snyder after the hashtag surfaced.
Cher actually called for Snyder to be executed on Twitter.GOV.Of MICHIGAN IS A MURDERER?HE Made Decision 2GAVE ppl POISON WATER,&NOW MUST SIGN DISASTER BILL.CHILDREN WILL"NEVER"RECOVER?
#JAILFORRICK Cher (@cher) January 6, 2016WTF IS GOING ON W/POWER MAD,GREED DRIVEN,KILLER, INCOMPETENT,POLITICIANS?THEY R CRIMNALS GOV.RICK SNYDER OF MICH. #FIRINGSQUADWORKSFORME Cher (@cher) January 6, 2016Snyder declared a state emergency over the Flint water crisis on Tuesday.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency working on an investigation into the matter.
They have not reveled if the investigation is of a criminal or civil matter.
You can read Moore s full letter and sign a petition he created, calling for U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch to launch an investigation of Snyder here.Featured Image Credit: Screenshot via Facebook