On April 23 Vice President Joe Biden cast his vote in the Democratic presidential primary, in his home state of Delaware, but declined to say which candidate he voted for.Neither the president or Vice President has publicly endorsed a candidate in the 2016 race, but during an interview with The New York Times, published on Wednesday, might provide some insight into which way the vice president was leaning on Friday.The New York Times reported:He remains neutral in the battle between Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton, but not between their campaign styles.
He ll take Mr. Sanders s aspirational approach over Mrs. Clinton s caution any day.During the interview Vice President Biden told The New York Times reporter John Harwood: I like the idea of saying, We can do much more, because we can.
He went on to compare the candidate s very different approaches to their campaigns, saying: I don t think any Democrats ever won saying, We can t think that big we ought to really downsize here because it s not realistic.
C mon man, this is the Democratic Party!
I m not part of the party that says, Well, we can t do it.
The New York Times also reported that the Vice President likes the idea that Mr. Sanders is aiming high, regardless of whether the large steps he envisions to narrow income inequality and broaden economic opportunity become realized in the next presidential term.
According to the interview:The philosophy Mr. Biden has advocated within the Obama White House: Push for a lot, and persevere over the long run.Vice President Biden stressed the point, saying: Presidents have always been told by really smart people: Don t push something that you can t succeed in it diminishes your power.
I completely disagree with that proposition.
Indeed, the race between former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and VT Senator Bernie Sanders is strikingly similar to the Clinton-Obama race of 2008.Then Senator Obama ran on a platform of hope and change, telling his energetic followers Yes We Can.
On the other hand, Hillary Clinton sought to portray herself as level-headed and realistic, warning that there is no magic wand to fix the problems in Washington.After eight years of George W. Bush, 2008 voters preferred Obama s message of bold change to Clinton s ideas for incremental change.This time around though, the 2016 electorate is leaning more toward Clinton s pragmatic approach, likely as a response to eight years of Republican obstructionism and even outright sabotage in Washington.While voters are certainly tired of budget showdowns and government shutdowns, the fact remains that as long as Republicans control Congress, both candidates will face the same right-wing extremism that President Obama has faced once they reach the White House.No democratic president is going to make Republicans in the House and Senate reasonable or even sane.Regardless of whether voters choose Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders, there s no question that both Democratic candidates would be hated and vilified by the GOP.While all eyes are on the race for the presidential nomination, changing the dynamics of Congress should also be a top priority to anyone who wants to see the country continue to move forward, not back.Image credit: Wikipedia Public Domain