Jared Kushner, who is Ivanka Trump s husband and therefore King Donnie s son-in-law, played the good son-in-law by stepping up and boldly defending His Royal Anti-Semite s anti-Semitic tweet against Hillary, just like everyone else who thinks the whole brouhaha is just political correctness run amok.
The problem is, he did so by invoking his Jewish grandparents history in the Holocaust, and now his family is rightfully livid at him for it.Because really, he s going to defend an anti-Semitic image by saying his grandparents are Holocaust survivors so he knows better than the evil media what is and isn t anti-Semitic?
Where has he been living that he thinks this is okay?
In a bubble that s under a rock, which is deep in a cave in the middle of the Himalayas?Marc Kushner, Jared s first cousin, responded to this brown-nosing butt-fuckery with a link to Jared s op-ed, and this simple statement at the top: I have a different take-away from my Grandparents experience in the war.
It is our responsibility as the next generation to speak up against hate.
Anti-semitism or otherwise.
It was Jacob Schulder, another cousin, though, that really let loose on both Jared and the Anti-Semite-in-Chief with a comment that appears to have since been deleted, but that Politico still has: When an out of touch with reality nominee hires an out of touch with reality campaign manager, who is also a son -in- law, you get the BS Jared wrote.
I don t think Trump is an anti Semite; I think he s a lying idiot (among other things) with little to no experiences outside his teetering fiefdom of failed development projects, divorces, bankrupted sports leagues, fraudulent Universities and golf courses (and the list keeps going).
The very first thing a responsible campaign manager should do, I d think, and I mean the very first thing, would be to take away his father- in -law s Twitter account.
Even Joseph Kushner would ve had the street smarts to figure that one out while living on boiled potatoes in the forest.
Schulder went on to explain exactly how the rest of us know that this was no accident, and King Dunce isn t the least bit sorry, so it ll probably happen again: That my grandparents have been dragged into this is a shame.
Thank you Jared for using something sacred and special to the descendants of Joe and Rae Kushner to validate the sloppy manner in which you ve handled this campaign.
From the references to Palestine at the AIPAC conference (which got Donald jeered) to the justification of the itchy Twitter fingers your father in law has, you ve managed to further prove what so many of us have known for many years.
Kudos to you for having gone this far no one expected this.
But for the sake of the family name, which may have no meaning to you but still has meaning to others, please don t invoke our grandparents in vain just so you can sleep better at night.
It is self serving and disgusting.
So what did he say that was so offensive?
In an op-ed posted to Observer.com on Wednesday, Kushner said: [T]he worst that his detractors can fairly say about him is that he has been careless in retweeting imagery that can be interpreted as offensive.
He then launched into a narrative of his grandparents history of trying to escape the Nazis in Russia, and some of the horrors they endured while doing so.
His grandmother did escape and joined a resistance cell, where she met his grandfather, who had been living in a literal hole in the ground for three years, trying to remain hidden from the Nazis.
Then he said: I go into these details, which I have never discussed, because it s important to me that people understand where I m coming from when I report that I know the difference between actual, dangerous intolerance versus these labels that get tossed around in an effort to score political points.
Where he s coming from?
Oh, that s right, he s coming from His Royal Racism s rear end in the same manner as diarrhea.
The thing is, using the Star of David in the manner of that tweet, along with the fact that it originally came from neo-Nazis, is intentionally anti-Semitic.
This was no accident of ignorance in any way, shape or form, and someone with family that survived the Holocaust should know a lot better than this.But Kushner has drunk the Kool-Aid mixed by King Dunce himself, and is brainwashed into believing that the Serial-Racist-Tweeter-in-Chief can t possibly be that hateful and bigoted.
With that explanation out of the way, the only one left is that the tweet was not anti-Semitic, and Trump is just a little careless.Please.Of course, a source close to Kushner says that he hasn t even spoken to these people in ten years, so they don t matter.
That s a bunch of bull cookies right there.
Kushner may not have spoken to them in ten years, but he invoked his history, which is their history too, in a public forum.
Therefore, it matters.
End of.The entire campaign is rife with broad racism, which includes anti-Semitism.
Trump has a bad habit of retweeting white supremacists, including neo-Nazi groups.
Kushner shouldn t be telling anybody that the anti-Semitic tweet was a mere mistake, especially not if he s going to insult his own family, and their Jewish history, in doing so.Featured image by Neilson Barnard/Getty Images for FINCA