House Speaker Paul Ryan was put on the spot last night during CNN s town hall, when a Republican attendee asked him a question that most of us would love to know how can anyone, Republican or not, justify standing by Donald Trump after all the horrible things he s said and done?Student Zachary Marcone, who stressed that he himself was a Republican but would NOT be voting for Trump, confronted Ryan by pointing out Trump s bigotry.
Marcone said: It concerns me when the Republican leadership is supporting somebody who s blatantly racist and has said Islamophobic statements, wants to shut down our borders.
Can you tell me, how can you morally justify your support for this kind of candidate, somebody who could be very destructive to our country?
Ryan couldn t actually give Marcone a moral justification for why he continued to support Trump even though he d condemned several of the Islamophobic things Trump has said in the past.
Basically accepting Marcone s description of Trump as a racist Islamophobic candidate, Ryan s only response was that carrying out the Republican party s agenda was more important to him than protecting America.
Ryan fired back with notable irritation in his voice: That basically means you re going to help elect Hillary Clinton.
And I don t think Hillary Clinton s going to support any of the things that you stand for, if you re a Republican.
So according to the Speaker of the House, subjecting America to a blatantly racist and Islamophobic idiot isn t as bad as having Clinton leading the country even though she is far more qualified to do so and Ryan admitted that several of Trump s proposals were wrong and don t reflect the view of fellow conservatives and Republicans.
Ryan said: She represents a third Obama term.
I don t think that s good for America; I think that s the wrong direction.
So, yes, things have been said that I, too, disagree with.
Then I ll make that point, then, but I m going to go fight for the principles and these solutions that I believe in.
And the candidate that I think is so much more likely to put those into law, because I know Hillary Clinton won t do that.
It is a binary choice.
It is either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton.
You don t get a third option.
It s one or the other and I know where I want to go.
You can watch Ryan expose how much the GOP doesn t give a damn about America below:Featured image via screenshot