The media everywhere seems to be jumping on the new revelation of Hillary Clinton s emails without actually reading what was written by FBI Director James Comey.While Donald Trump, alongside pretty much every mainstream media branch, is saying that the FBI is reopening the investigation, that s not at all what was written.Comey, doing his due diligence and informing Congress that new emails had been discovered, sent the following letter: In previous congressional testimony, I referred to the fact that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had completed its investigation of former Secretary Clinton s personal email server.
Due to recent developments, I am writing to supplement my previous testimony.
Note the word supplement.
He continued: In connection with an unrelated case, the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation.
I am writing to inform you that the investigative team briefed me on this yesterday, and I agreed that they FBI should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information, as well as to assess their importance to out investigation.
In other words, they are looking at them to determine if they should include them in the previous investigation.
Which is solidified with this next point: Although the FBI cannot yet assess whether or not this material may be significant, and I cannot predict how long it will take us to complete this additional work, I believe it is important to update your Committees about our efforts in light of my previous testimony.
In other words, Comey is being completely transparent as the emails are looked at, but he never said the investigation is being reopened.
Rather, the additional emails that were found are being assessed to see if they need to be subject to further scrutiny.In addition:BREAKING: US official: Newly discovered emails related to Clinton investigation did not come from her private server.
The Associated Press (@AP) October 28, 2016Pete Williams has sources saying not about Clinton world w/holding emails.
Not about Podesta emails.
Not emails from Clinton.
Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) October 28, 2016It s really disappointing to see the lack of reading comprehension in the media that thus gave Trump the go-ahead to use a new attack line that is built purely from hyperbolic fabrication.No, this is not Trump s October surprise but rather an over-reaction to someone actually showing the government can do its job.Watch Pete Williams be the person to actually explain the story with facts: NBC s Pete Williams: Sr. officials say During separate investigation a device led to add'l emails not from Clinton https://t.co/QmmNoxXhOx Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) October 28, 2016Featured Photo by Joe Raedle via Getty Images