Remember the time when a gay couple destroyed the business of a Christian couple who owned a very successful bakery, after they refused to bake the gay couple a wedding cake?
Remember the time when an elderly florist, who was friends with a gay couple, was sued by them for refusing to supply flowers for their wedding because it went against her religious beliefs?
Remember the time when a venue that hosted weddings was sued because they refused to host a gay wedding?
Remember the time when the Oregon baker was sued because he refused to go against his religious beliefs and bake a cake for a gay couple?
Yeah, well, that was okay with the gay mafia, because, well, because you shouldn t deny service to someone just because they re gay that s just intolerant.Speaking of intolerant A gay coffee shop owner in Seattle kicked a Christian pro-life group out of his coffee shop because he felt offended by their presence, according to video footage of the incident.The Washington Times reports that the group, called Abolish Human Abortion, decided to order drinks at Seattle s Bedlam Coffee after passing out pro-life pamphlets in the area when the owner angrily asked the group to leave.
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Angry homosexual kicks Christian customers out of coffee shop.
WARNING!
This video includes extremely graphic, hate-filled, blasphemous language.Watch and Share before Facebook takes it down!
And let us know what YOU think.Posted by Abolish Human Abortion on Sunday, October 1, 2017 I m gay.
You have to leave, owner Ben Borgman said in the Facebook video.
Are you denying us service?
activist Caytie Davis asked.
I am.
Yeah, Borgman replied.The group had been handing out pamphlets about the Bible, sin, and abortion to Seattle residents and one of the baristas let Borgman know what he was doing, according to the Blaze.Borgman did not take the news well and further confronted the group.
This is offensive to me.
I own the place.
I have the right to be offended, he said.The group tried to explain to him that they did not leave any pamphlets in the cafe, but Borgman continued to berate the group.
There s nothing you can say.
This is you and I don t want these people in this place, he said.Borgman then asked activist Jonathan Sutherland whether he would tolerate a sex act between two men.
Can you tolerate my presence?
Really?
the owner asked.
If I go get my boyfriend and f**k him in the a** right here you re going to tolerate that?
Are you going to tolerate it?
That would be your choice, Sutherland replied.
Answer my f***ing question!
Borgman yelled back.
No, you re going to sit right here and f***ing watch it!
Leave, all of you!
Tell all your f**king friends don t come here!
Via-Breitbart