A pre-general election debate between Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump would have been a political event that would be talked about for years.
However, such a debate will never happen because Trump is a giant chicken.
Sanders blasted Trump on Real Time with Bill Maher Friday night.After Trump jokingly said that he would debate Sanders ahead of the California primary, Trump quickly backed out.
Sanders expressed his disappointment with the presumptive Republican presidential nominee s decision.
Sanders put out a challenge to Trump, saying: I would have loved [to debate Trump]!
First, he said he would do it, then he said he wouldn t do it.
Then he said he would do it, then he said he wouldn t do it.
So I would hope if he changed his mind four times in two days, change it a fifth time.
Trump claims to be a real tough guy, pushes people around.
Hey Donald, come on up, let s have a debate about the future of America.
That s when Sanders unleashed a savage takedown of Trump: This guy is a pathological liar.
And I don t mean to be malicious, but that is just the damn truth.
He would be not only an embarrassment; he would be a real danger to this entire world if he were to become president.
Maher and Sanders discussed many things during the interview.
Sanders, as he usually does, talked about the tough issues that the American people are facing, including the disappearance of the middle class, the enormous amount of poverty there is in this country, and the need for issues-based politics.Sanders also pointed out how Trump s constant lying and flip-flopping makes him hard to create an effective strategy against.
How exactly does one challenge their opponent when said opponent s supporters don t hold that accountable to their stance on the issues or their character?
While Sanders himself may have seemed unsure (or at least wasn t willing to lay one out in the open during the interview), Sanders has clobbered Trump on the campaign trail while staying classy.
Love trumps hate, being a simple effective message that gets to the hearts of both Sanders and Trump s campaigns.Sanders knows that you catch more flies with honey than with vinegar, and he has an amazing platform that actually speaks to the needs of the average person an agenda that will be championed by many long after this current race is over.You can watch the interview in full, below.Featured image via video screenshot