In something you might expect from a video game instead of real life, police in Sacramento, California are under fire on Monday after a dash cam video was released that showed police trying to run down a black man who reportedly had only a knife.
They missed, but they did manage to shoot 50-year-old Joseph Mann 14 times.
Now, the community is calling for the police involved to be charged with murder.The incident happened on July 11th.
As those on the right will happily point out, the police were called to an apartment complex because Mann was reportedly acting erratically and he had a knife.
When police ordered Mann to drop his weapon and get on the ground, Mann instead threw a thermos at the police car.That s when Officers Randy Lozoya and John Tennis came to the scene.
They are the officers in the video.In the video, the officers are heard saying, I m gonna hit him and Okay, go for it, before gunning the engine and aiming for him.
Mann was able to evade the police cruiser, but the officers stopped the car, got out and during a foot chase, shot Mann 14 times, killing him.Here it is: Mann was standing stationary on a sidewalk with no one in close proximity when the officers unloaded their guns, Burris wrote in a letter he said he sent the U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch.The family wants murder charges filed.The officers behaved like big game hunters closing in on an animal, said John Burris, a lawyer for the family of 50-year-old Joseph Mann.Source: CBS NewsThe Sacramento police are reserving judgement, of course.
Spokesman Matthew McPhail didn t say whether cars are permitted as weapons, but he did say, our officers are encouraged to assess each circumstance and think critically about the tools at their disposal.
The two cops have not been fired.
They were placed on paid leave for a whole week after the shooting and now they are on desk duty.Again, Mann wasn t an innocent bystander.
Methamphetamine was found in his system.
The family s lawsuit claims that Mann was displaying obvious signs of mental distress.
The police followed no protocol for dealing with a mentally distressed person and they made no attempt to deescalate the situation.The bottom line, though, is that the punishment did not fit the crime.
If police can t even subdue a man who is armed with only a knife, how are they supposed to deal with a mass shooter or a terrorist?
Not all crimes are equal and this certainly wasn t a crime that warranted the death penalty, not that police have that authority anyway.Featured image via video screen capture.