Barack and Michelle Obama are incredibly smart, articulate and charming.
They came from relatively modest backgrounds and the Obama administration was nearly completely scandal free.
So why wouldn t Republicans vote for the man whose only real promise was to be the anti-Obama?Well, they got the anti-Obama.
Donald Trump is rude, crude and without class or charm.
His IQ, or at least his communication skills, are below that of your average 5th grader and in fewer than four months, he has racked up more scandals than any President in history, On the governing front, we ll he s been the anti-Obama there too.
He s trying to overturn every single Obama accomplishment, including Michelle s efforts at ensuring that poor children receive at least some nutrition at school, which for Republicans, is a step too far.Now, the Trump administration is putting a stop to those evil healthy lunches.
Agriculture Secretary Sunny Perdue is delaying requirements for schools to have reduced sodium in lunches and he is issuing waivers so schools won t have to serve whole grains.
Yes, depriving children of healthy lunches is petty and petulant, but that s the way the Trump administration rolls, so Michelle Obama weighed in.Speaking at an annual health conference in Washington, D.C., Obama said more nutritious school lunches are important since millions of kids eat federally subsidized school breakfast and lunch.
Without mentioning President Donald Trump, she said parents should stop and think about why someone is OK with your kids eating crap.
If we want to make this country great, our kids need to be healthy, Obama said.
Not some, but all.
Source: NBC ChicagoMichelle also took aim at the GOP argument that she was helping to create a nanny state by attempting to regulate school lunches.
In the perfectly crafted response, she pointed instead at the oligarchy, which lets corporations make the decisions for us: You want to talk about nanny state and government intervention, well, you just buy the food and be quiet and you don t need to know what is in it,' Obama said.
That is essentially what a move like this is saying to you moms.
She even used Trump s own words against him, saying that if we want to Make America Great, we need healthy children.
It does seem pretty simple, doesn t it?Featured image via Gerardo Mora/Getty Images