An Islamist group with secretive compounds around the U.S. is arming up in anticipation of raids by the incoming Trump administration, according to a new report from a nonprofit think tank.Muslims of America, which is headquartered in Hancock, N.Y., and run from Pakistan by leader Sheikh Gilani, operates 22 Islamic villages around the nation.
The compounds are legal, but Gilani has recently ordered all unarmed members to gather firearms, licenses and hunting permits, according to Clarion Project.
Gilani believes his group will be targeted by Trump.
I foretold disastrous results should this man be elected as the American President, Gilani said in a statement shortly after Trump was elected president on Nov. 8.
He has come as a test and trial for the faithful adherents of the holy books.
Supporters say the compounds are simply Islamic communes for mainly African-American Muslims who seek to follow Gilani s teachings in a rural setting.
While they have been the subject of numerous accusations and undercover reporting, the group is not known to have supported or conducted terrorist activity, and its critics are widely dismissed as conspiracy theorists.A confidential source allegedly inside the organization told Martin Mawyer of the Christian Action Network and Ryan Mauro of the Clarion Project that the group expects the FBI to reopen its cases against them as a homegrown terrorist organization, according to the report.Here is Clarion Project s National Security Analyst Ryan Mauro explaining why we need to be concerned about these Muslim compounds:Watch this report on NO-GO Zones scattered around the United States:Alex Jones reporter Joe Biggs traveled to Islamberg compound in upstate New York.
He found the people living in the compound have isolated themselves from everyone on the outside.
The local chief of police told Biggs that the residents handle everything internally.
The founder of Islamberg is a founder of a terrorist organization out of Pakistan: According to the report, the sources stated that members across the country were given instructions by Gilani to be prepared to fight, against President-Elect Trump, who the group believes is part of a satanic-Zionist conspiracy to destroy Islam.Muslims of America s headquarters in rural New York is known as Islamberg.
According to a 2007 FBI report obtained by the Clarion Project, MOA possesses an infrastructure capable of planning and mounting terrorist campaigns within the U.S. and overseas.
Fox News