You know the age-old political trope that politicians spend a lot of time kissing babies?
Well, Trump just turned that on his head when he dedicated a few minutes of a rally in Virginia on Tuesday to attacking a screaming infant in the audience an actual screaming infant, not one of his followers.
Don t worry about that baby, I love babies, Trump told the child s mother.
I love babies.
I hear that baby crying.
I like it.
I like it.
What a beautiful baby.
The mom s running around like don t worry about it.
It s young and beautiful and healthy and that s what we want.
After prattling on about China, Iraq, and Afghanistan devaluing currency, Trump couldn t resist going back to the baby situation: Actually I was only kidding, you can get the baby out of here.
That s all right.
Don t worry.
I think she really believed me that I love having a baby crying while I m speaking.
That s ok, people don t understand.
That s OK. And the crowd cheered, though perhaps not as loudly when Trump is siccing them on a black man who had the nerve to speak out in support of his rights or anyone else who has been beaten by his followers after Trump issued his orders.This wasn t the only child who gave Trump problems at that rally.
CBS Sopan Deb noticed a boy no older than 10 screaming Take that bitch down!
when The Donald mentioned Hillary Clinton.This phrase, along with a number of other profanity-laden attacks on Clinton, is regularly heard at Trump rallies, but the child s mother had an interesting scapegoat for her terrible parenting.
NBC s Katy Tur followed up on the bitch kid and spoke to the mother, who simply explained that Children are children.
While it is true that kids will be kids, most don t scream take that bitch down at a gathering of white supremacists and other assorted creeps, cretins, and idiots.
The woman told The Guardian s Ben Jacobs that Democratic schools are to blame for her child s behavior, adding that he has a right to speak what he wants to.
Which is it, mom?
Are the Democrats to blame for your brat s shitty behavior, or are you for giving him the freedom to speak as he wishes?
Would your reaction be the same if he yelled that about you?It s worth noting that Trump said nothing about this screaming child but CNN s Jason Carroll pointed out perhaps the most horrible aspect of this mess.
After mentioning that Trump accepted a wounded veteran s Purple Heart, noting that he has always wanted one and that it was much easier than actually earning it by making sacrifices for his country, Carroll told the story of the baby: The crowd laughed.
They enjoyed it.
Was it a bit off color?
Yes.
But this is what people like about this man.
Watch the CNN clip below: Featured image via NY Daily News