That s gonna leave a mark Former Vice President Dick Cheney will support Donald Trump, he told CNN Friday, an important move as the presumptive Republican nominee is encountering intense resistance from senior members of his own party.Cheney told CNN Special Correspondent Jamie Gangel that he has always supported the GOP nominee and will do so this year as well.CNN tried to coerce Cheney into a Trump endorsement only one month ago.
Cheney wisely chose to wait and see who the people of America chose to be their nominee.
Watch:The announcement makes Cheney one of the few Republican Party elders to announce their support of Trump and comes a day after House Speaker Paul Ryan told CNN he is just not ready to back Trump.The father-son duo have endorsed every GOP nominee since each of them left the White House, but it seems they ll draw the line with Trump and his anti-globalist campaign.Dubya is also likely sore with Trump for winning South Carolina after he pointed out the former president not only failed to prevent 9/11, but also accused the Bush administration of duping the public into supporting the 2003 invasion of Iraq.And Trump also called for the release of the missing 28 pages from 9/11 report, which were classified to protect the Bush family s connections with Saudi Arabia, according to those who have read the pages.
That s very serious stuff, Trump told Fox in April.
It s sort of nice to know who your friends are and perhaps who your enemies are.
You re going to see some very revealing things released in those papers.
It isn t surprising then that the Bushes won t endorse Trump, but that actually benefits the mogul who sealed the GOP nomination by tapping into the vast, anti-establishment sentiment shared by millions of U.S. voters both inside and outside the Republican Party.
People in Washington need to recognize the reason that Trump is winning is because they (his supporters) feel like people in Washington have helped them lose and they re sick of it, Mike Huckabee pointed out.
That s what this election is largely about, it s an overthrow of the government we ought to be glad that it is a peaceful revolution with ballots rather than one with bullets.
The donor class runs the political environment in this country and people are waking up to that and they are tired of it.
The populist movement was already there before Trump announced his candidacy last June; he simply grew into a wildfire powered by the vast winds of dissatisfied, everyday people.And Trump s crossover support which transcends traditional party lines reveals he has completely transformed U.S. politics forever.Via: InfoWars