During Thursday night s undercard debate on Fox Business Channel, candidate Rick Santorum, who s somehow still in the race, asked viewers for a very special favor.The former Pennsylvania senator said, Go and Google Rick Santorum and Hillary Clinton.
You ll see a five-minute debate.
I ll let you decide who won the debate.
He continued, I ll tell you who won, I know I m out of time, I m going to take some of Rand Paul s time here for a second.
Yes, Rick Santorum wants us to Google him.
Why is this so goddamn funny?There was a time when the absolute last thing Rick Santorum ever wanted you to do was to Google him.
Not too long ago, LGBT commentator Dan Savage produced one of the greatest political pranks of all time.
In response to Santorum saying publicly that same-sex marriage will lead to man-on-dog sex, Savage re-defined the word Santorum to mean the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex.
Worse, enemies of Santorum rigged it so that googling the Republican s name would only produce results that led to that definition.
Hence, Santorum probably didn t spend much time asking people to Google him.Until Thursday night.
Brave of him because, fortunately, Google no longer produces the new definition as a search result.
But people who despise the Republican haven t forgotten.
Twitter erupted with reactions to the inadvertent reference to Google.Historic moment: Rick Santorum just told people to go Google Rick Santorum.
Daniel Dale (@ddale8) January 14, 2016People who should never say Google me -Rick Santorum, and well, me.
?
Sydney Leathers (@sydneyelainexo) January 15, 2016 Hi, I m Rick Santorum.
Please don t Google me.
Andrew Katz (@katz) September 16, 2015 Go and Google Rick Santorum nooooooooooooo Brett LoGiurato (@BrettLoGiurato) January 14, 2016DO NOT GOOGLE SANTORUM T. Becket Adams (@BecketAdams) January 14, 2016Hi I m Rick Santorum.
I don t need to introduce myself.
Just google me.
Just make sure your kids aren t in the room.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaIdTromp) September 16, 2015Couldn t happen to a nicer guy, huh?Featured image via video screen grab.