Donald Trump is a liar.
Not the kind of lies that qualify as little white lies or harmless little fibs.
He doesn t just exaggerate a little or embellish his stories.
No, Donald Trump qualifies for full pants on fire status.
A recent study of nearly 40 hours of campaign footage by Politico found that The Donald lies on average every five minutes.
go ahead and read that again and take it in for all it s worth: Donald Trump tells a bald-faced lie every five minutes he s at a podium.His followers eat it up.
Whether he s inventing numbers about trade deficits, creating success stories that definitely never actually happened to him or defending his bankruptcies, out-of-court settlements and failed business ventures, Donald Trump truly personifies the old adage that you can tell if he s lying if his lips are moving.
Politico stated:We chronicled 4.6 hours of stump speeches and press conferences, from a rally in Concord, N.C., on Monday to a rally on Friday in St. Louis.The result: more than five dozen statements deemed mischaracterizations, exaggerations, or simply false the kind of stuff that would have been stripped from one of our stories, or made the whole thing worthy of the spike.
It equates to roughly one misstatement every five minutes on average.They also produced a video of some of those lies captioned with the truth for your viewing pleasure:How anyone can take this buffoon seriously is a mystery.
While most Republicans are well-known for blaming the problems they and their party created for our country on Democrats, specifically President Obama, Trump is content to lie when the truth goes better.
For example, we have a $366 billion trade deficit with China, which Trump has repeatedly exaggerated to $500 billion.
Is that extra $134 billion really that important?
Most middle and working class Americans struggle to keep $1000 in the bank, Donald.
$366 billion more than makes the point.Another fan favorite is the ever-benevolent Trump and his self-funded campaign.
Trump has passed the $7 million mark on donations from people who hit the big blue donate button on his website, and the bulk of his self-funding comes in the form of a $17.5 million loan from Donald J Trump.
That loan can be repaid anytime up until shortly after his campaign ends.
Trump s actual personal contributions total a little over $200K.That s how good Christians like Donald Trump operate.
They hide behind lies.
The truth that they are corporate lackeys looking to better their personal portfolios and secure a future for old, white, male America isn t so easy to campaign on, so they conjure a truth that fits their dialogue.
In Trump s case, the truth is far more frightening than most, if not all, Republicans who have come before him: He wants the presidency so he can enjoy the pinnacle of power and blow things up.Not exactly a good enough reason to hand a lunatic the nuclear football but hey, you can t blame a megalomaniac for trying.Featured image from Gage Skidmore