A Texas teacher has been removed from her classroom after she openly called a 12-year-old Muslim boy a terrorist and did nothing as the other students proceeded to bully him.Waleed Abushaaban was simply watching and enjoying the movie Bend It Like Beckham with his classmates at the Fort Bend Independent School District in Fort Bend County, Texas when his teacher made racist remarks toward him just because he laughed at a funny scene in the film.According to KHOU, Abushaaban remembered the incident clearly.
We were in the class watching a movie, and I was just laughing at the movie and the teacher said, I wouldn t be laughing if I was you.
And I said why?
She said, because we all think you re a terrorist.
To make matters worse, the teacher s remarks touched off a storm of bullying as the students around him began to verbally harass him.
They were like, oh I see a bomb!
and they started all laughing and making jokes.
I was upset and I felt like I was put in the corner and like everybody was just looking at me.
In just a matter of seconds, Abushaaban had become a victim of racism and hate and had been humiliated by his fellow classmates who only suddenly turned on him because the teacher did.Understandably, his parents are mad as hell and they want the teacher terminated from her position at the school.
Just because my son is a Muslim doesn t mean he is a terrorist, said Malek Abushaaban.
He s an American.
He s as American as anybody else.
He was born here.
That s all he knows, is how to be an American.
Here s the video via KHOU.Of course, school officials are claiming that the teacher merely misspoke in an attempt to teach about negative stereotyping, but did condemn her words in the following statement.
While the teacher reports her statements were made in the context of trying to make a point about negative stereotypes, District officials do not believe that the teacher exercised the appropriate sensitivity expected of the District s educators, and do not believe that the statements were made in a manner that is in keeping with the District s Core Beliefs and Commitments.
Keep in mind that this happened while the students were in the middle of watching a movie, which makes the job of a teacher a little easier.
There was absolutely no need to try and teach anything.
In fact, it makes no sense to teach lessons during a film and she was clearly not teaching the rest of the class about negative stereotypes.
In other words, this teacher is just trying to cover her ass with a bullshit claim.Texas schools seem to be obsessed with terrorism these days.
Just last year, a Texas school freaked out because a Muslim student brought in a clock he had built himself and school personnel called the police because they thought it was a bomb.Another Texas school acted even more ridiculous by suspending a nine-year-old boy for bringing a replica of the One Ring from the Hobbit to class.
The school actually accused the boy of committing terrorism because he was pretending that the ring made him invisible.
Seriously.Texas schools really need to get it together.Featured image: screenshot