Donald Trump s executive order barring people from entering the United States from seven countries in the Middle East exposed his violation of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution.And a House Democrat took him to task for it on Thursday during a speech on the House floor.When Trump signed the executive order last Friday, he targeted people traveling for nations that are not responsible for any deaths of American citizens on American soil, despite claiming that his order is meant to protect Americans from terrorists.Trump even invoked 9/11 to justify the order, but left countries off the list where many of the hijackers came from, such as Saudi Arabia, which also helped fund them and their operation.The nations Trump conveniently left off the list also have something else in common.
They all have business ties with the Trump Organization.In other words, Trump is a complete hypocrite and is making foreign policy decisions based on whether they will hurt his family s business or not.And Wisconsin Rep. Mark Pocan absolutely hammered Trump for it on the House floor with a devastating speech.
These countries were excluded from the executive order despite being home to many of the terrorists who carried out 9/11, Pocan pointed out.
I m not saying we should ban people from these countries.
I firmly oppose any ban based on nationality or religion.
But it is unacceptable that business interests have played potentially a role in such a destructive policy, a policy that also makes our country less safe in the long run.
Pocan explained that Trump s business interests in the countries left off the list influenced his decision to not include them even though Trump repeatedly declared that he would make America safe by blocking nations where terrorists come from to attack us.
Trump clearly believes that maintaining his business interests are more important than banning travel from Saudi Arabia, the country where most of the 9/11 attackers were from and received their funding.
It s time for the president to stop defending his divisive and unconstitutional executive order and start being transparent about his business interests, Pocan said.
Every president in the modern era has released tax records to ensure the American people that their actions will not be impacted by financial holdings.
Indeed, Richard Nixon was the first president to release his tax records to the public, and that set a precedent that all presidential candidates have followed over the decades.
Trump broke that precedent and refused to release his taxes because he is hiding his numerous business connections with nations like Russia that would expose him and his treachery to the American people.
Trump now says he won t release his taxes at all despite promising that he would do so after an audit is completed, even though an audit does not prevent someone from releasing their tax records.Pocan then demanded that Trump release his taxes, divest himself from his company, and repeal his executive order or else face legislative action, including the possibility of impeachment.
Mr. President, it s time for you to fix this.
One, divest your business holding immediately to remove any suggestion of conflicts in your decision making.
Two, show us your tax returns so financial interests are transparent to the American people.
And three, get rid of your unconstitutional executive order, which will make us less safe and only serve to embolden our enemies.
Short of that, we ll have to take other actions, including legislative directives, resolutions of disapproval and even explore the power of impeachment.
The Speaker then whined about Pocan threatening impeachment as if Republicans hadn t been calling for impeaching President Obama over the last eight years.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is a liar and a traitor who is putting his business interests ahead of the best interests of the American people.
Not only should he be impeached, his entire administration should be removed.
And Democrats could get the chance to do exactly that if Americans vote in 2018 to take the House away from the Republican majority.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images