It s beyond sad to watch these young men sitting through an interview with their overbearing, loudmouth dad controlling their every move.
It s especially disturbing to see Lavar Ball and the hosts of The Breakfast Club laughing about LiAngelo and his fellow UCLA basketball players stealing Louis Vuitton sunglasses in China.He certainly isn t doing them any favors LiAngelo Ball said he wouldn t have apologized to President Trump if UCLA didn t make him do so.After Ball and teammates Cody Riley and Jalen Hill were arrested and released for shoplifting in China, the trio held a press conference after arriving in the United States where they thanked Trump for his role in their release.
But according to LiAngelo, who along with his dad, LaVar, spoke about the apology with The Breakfast Club Wednesday morning, an apology wouldn t have been in the cards if he knew he wasn t going to play for UCLA again.Watch, as Lavar Ball, the father of 2 of these 3 unfortunate young men that were part of the interview with The Breakfast Club, talks about how differently he d be treated if he were white.
Perhaps someone should explain to Lavar that the real reason he offends everyone within earshot of his big mouth, is because he s an arrogant ass, who owes any attention he gets from the media to his son s athletic abilities (which of course, he takes full credit for).
They wanted to hear that, and he tweeted about it before my speech so I had to add it in there right before I gave it, LiAngelo told the Power 105.1 morning show.According to the middle Ball son, the school reminded him about Trump right before he went up to speak to the press.
If they didn t tell me to do it, it wouldn t have been in there, Ball said on the program, in reference to the Trump apology.Trump fired off a tweet after the UCLA players returned questioning whether they would thank him for facilitating their release.Trump s tweet then prompted LaVar Ball to question how exactly Trump helped.
Who?
Ball told ESPN.
What was he over there for?
Don t tell me nothing.
Everybody wants to make it seem like he helped me out.
Ball s response led to more beef between the two, with Ball reigniting the feud earlier in December when he tweeted a cartoon showing him dunking on the commander-in-chief.LiAngelo, who was suspended indefinitely by UCLA, left the school weeks later and, along with his younger brother, LaMelo, signed a professional contract with Lithuania basketball club Prienu Vytautas this week.
NYPOn November 21, 2017, we published an article about how a family member revealed the SICK reason LaVar Ball allegedly wouldn t let his sons see their mother after surgery to remove portion of her skull So who is this crackpot LaVar Ball, and why would anyone in their right mind make such arrogant and ignorant remarks after the President of the United States just helped their son to escape a prison sentence in a foreign country?
Andrew Stephens of the Armchair All Americans did a pretty good job of summing up what a horrible human being the self-serving, money, and fame-obsessed LaVar Ball really is.
In his article, Stephens reveals a sick man, who is so controlling of his 3 sons and their basketball careers, that he wouldn t even let them visit their very sick mother in the hospital, over fears that it could create media attention that could damage his merchandise brand.On March 15, 2017, Andrew Stephens of Armchair All Americans published an article about Lavar Ball titled Lavar Ball: The epitome of what is wrong with modern sports.
It touched on helicopter parenting and the monetization of potentially profitable children.Stephens claimed that in the article, without commenting on upbringing tactics, I attempted to delve into Lavar Ball s seemingly unnecessary promotion of his own sons for his personal benefit.About an hour after the article was run, I received a comment on it from a member of the Ball family, who wishes to remain anonymous.
The comment (which has since been removed to protect the email address and identity of the commenter) read as follows:- Wow.
You nailed it.
Although you don t even know the half of it.
Lavar took over the high school program, added the Coach, his puppet (which is why he quit last year after becoming the national coach of the year) and Lavar stepped on and crushed countless other kids careers and love for the game to get his kids on the court.
If you are allowed to shoot at any time from anywhere and never come out of the game, any decent idiot could score 30 points.Also, Tina Ball, his wife had a stroke on Feb 21.
She had life-threatening skull surgery to relieve brain pressure guess where Lavar was during the operation that could have killed his wife?
at the CHHS vs. LB Poly game with his sons, including Lonzo.
He still has not allowed his kids to see their sick mother due to the media attention it would bring to him, and cause BBB sales to diminish.
[Name of hospital] in [City of hospital], CA Tina is there now and he only visits for 1 hour a few days a week, while her Mother has yet to leave her side.
Pathetic!!
!