Tucker Carlson and Jesse Waters both went to Trinity College Who knew!
Carlson discussed the downfall of his college from a good college to a leftist indoctrination center Unreal!
Please see our latest report on the professor who said let them f*cking die THE PROFESSOR WHO S BEEN A TRINITY FOR 20 YEARS SPEWING HATE SPEECH A Connecticut college professor has created a firestorm for calling white people inhuman a-holes who need to die following last week s shooting attack on congressional Republicans.
Professor Johnny Eric Williams is a sociology professor!
Who wants to send their child to Trinity College at $61,000 a year to have this jackwagon teach them?
This is exactly how college kids are indoctrinated into hating their own race.
This is sick and twisted!Trinity College s Johnny Eric Williams social media feed (his twitter feed is now set on private) after the June 14 shooting of Louisiana Rep. Steve Scalise included racial tirades and commentary calling on minorities to confront white people and end this now, a reference to an alleged system of white supremacy.
It is past time for the racially oppressed to do what people who believe themselves to be white will not do, put end to the vectors of their destructive mythology of whiteness and their white supremacy system.
#LetThemF ingDie, the associate professor of sociology said June 18 in a series of Facebook posts.
The time is now to confront these inhuman assholes and end this now.
The educational watchdog Campus Reform and The Blaze both reached out to the professor for comment Tuesday to no avail.
Trinity College offered no statement regarding the professor s action.
Instead, the Hartford institution reiterated its right on Facebook to remove comments that are deemed inappropriate, profane, defamatory, or disrespectful to users of the page and/or members of the greater Trinity College community.
Mr. Williams Facebook page also featured an anonymous article on Medium accusing Mr. Scalise of being a racist and one of the most anti-LGBTQ politicians in Washington.
If you see [white people] drowning.
If you see them in a burning building.
If they are bleeding out in an emergency room.
If the ground is crumbling beneath them.
If they are in a park and they turn their weapons on each other: do nothing, a June 16 article by Son of Baldwin says.
Let.
Them.
F-ing.
Die.
And smile a bit when you do.
We included the link to Mr. Willians Facebook page but it appears as though he s set his page on private.
He is in groups like Black Lives Matter on Facebook we re not surprised by that!Read more: Campus Reform