On Sunday, on CNN s State of the Union, Trump campaign spokesman Stephen Miller got into a bizarre argument with the show s host Jake Tapper.Tapper questioned whether Trump s recent attack on Ted Cruz s wife was befitting of a person running for president.
In an apparent attempt to bring the GOP primary election to its rock bottom, Trump recently took to Twitter where he retweeted a photo that attacked Cruz s wife.
The image showed two photos, one of Cruz s wife and one of Trump s wife.
The image had a weird threat written on it, which said, No need to spill the beans.
The images are worth a thousand words.
Miller defended the retweet earlier in the week during an earlier interview on CNN.He wanted to evade the question at all costs, so he decided to try and steer the conversation towards immigration.Tapper wasn t having it.
He pressed the issue, and that s when Miller got a little erratic.
Miller said: We get wrong what we re mad about in America!
We don t get mad when Americans are murdered by illegal immigrants.
We don t get mad when people have their jobs taken by cheaper foreign workers here on visa programs.
We don t get mad when entire cities are crushed by our trade policies that send jobs overseas.
Tapper wasn t going to let Miller off the hook that easy.
He continued to press Miller, stating that he doesn t want to know why Miller was being so evasive.
You want to get into an argument?
Then we ll get into an argument!
Miller exclaimed.
He just accused me of standing up for sexism, and that is absolutely inappropriate!
Miller continued, saying: I said in that interview that it is a trivial issue to be debating retweets when it is a fact you have Americans dying every single day as a result of immigration policies!
Americans all over this country see their communities destroyed by uncontrolled migration.
The irony of the interview is that Miller is using evasion tactics that Cruz is famous for.
When pressed on social issues, Cruz often jumps to a completely different topic.
This was best exemplified when reporters asked Cruz about his stance on LGBT issues, particularly his lack of support for gay marriage.
Cruz, then inexplicably went into a rant about the dangers of the Islamic State.You can watch the segment below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MaKL5HFa4ZAFeatured image from video screenshot