Conservative political analyst (and all around vile human being) Ann Coulter has decided that in the wake of the whole fiasco with Russia interfering in our election, we should just get rid of the Central Intelligence Agency altogether.
Poof!
Problem solved!During an interview on Sean Hannity s radio show, Coulter was asked about the recent CIA revelations that Russia interfered in our election not just to undermine confidence in U.S. elections, but in an attempt to help Donald Trump win the White House.
What do you think of this effort to undermine first it was the recount, then it was the Russians hacked, even though there s no new evidence at all and the FBI and director of national intelligence disagree.
And I know because I ve interviewed a number of these people, electors being harassed to change their votes away from Trump.
What do you make of the effort to delegitimize him?
Hannity asked.Coulter s answer was even more jaw-droppingly stupid that what we have come to expect from her.It doesn t make any sense, the FBI disputes it.
One of the main proponents of this, of this Russia I mean, the articles in The New York Times and The Washington Post, they re all anonymous sources from the CIA, an agency we really need to get rid of because it is utterly useless and it eats up a lot of tax money.
And this isn t something I m bringing up for the first time now; my loyal readers know I ve been making fun of US intelligence for a good decade now.
We have the worst intelligence collecting in the world.
Worse than Burkina Faso, it s worse than Walmart s intelligence, because the Democrats decided to destroy the CIA after Watergate.Seriously.
This woman thinks that because the CIA called out Russia for their blatant meddling in our election, we should just get rid of the entire agency completely.
And, of course, it s all the Democrats fault.
Naturally.
The CIA busted Trump s buddy Putin interfering in our presidential election, on Trump s behalf, and this is her response.
You really do just have to take a step back and marvel at the mental gymnastics at play here.You can listen to the interview here, via Media Matters: Featured image via Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images