How very diverse!
These refugees sure know how to assimilate in their new host countries don t they?Stickers calling for democracy to be replaced with Islam and for women who do not wear a veil to be raped have appeared in public places in Sweden.
They have been reported to the police.
Pictures of the stickers, which have been stuck to objects on streets in Nybro, Sm land, have been circulating on social media.Jihad Watch Surprised?
Don t be.
The Qur an teaches that Infidel women can be lawfully taken for sexual use (cf.
its allowance for a man to take captives of the right hand, 4:3, 4:24, 23:1-6, 33:50, 70:30).
The Qur an says: O Prophet, tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to bring down over themselves of their outer garments.
That is more suitable that they will be known and not be abused.
And ever is Allah Forgiving and Merciful.
(33:59) The implication there is that if women do not cover themselves adequately with their outer garments, they may be abused, and that such abuse would be justified.How these Muslim migrants have enriched Sweden!One of the stickers reads, in English: Women who don t wear a headscarf are asking to be raped.
Another reads: No democracy.
We just want Islam, Fria Tider has reported.The stickers have been reported to the police who are currently investigating who placed them there, but admitted that at the moment they do not know who is behind them.The appearance of the stickers comes just weeks after a number of stickers appeared in nearby Emmaboda bearing the message Multiculturalism is bad for your children and your grandchildren.
However, those stickers were emblazoned with Nordfront , the Swedish branch of the Nordic Resistance Movement, a national socialist movement.
They were also stylised, made to look like the health warnings carried on cigarette packets.But unlike the Nordfront stickers, the Islamist stickers feature plain white text on a plain dark grey background with no logo or marking to indicate who placed them.
Consequently, while some people have argued that they were placed by newly arrived asylum seekers with an agenda to promote Islam in Sweden, others have argued that they could be the work of Swedes seeking to incite hatred against the immigrants.In that respect, the controversy closely resembles a recent case in which leaflets were posted through letterboxes in Manchester, England, calling on British people not to walk their dogs in public in order for the area to be kept pure for Muslims.
As citizens of a multicultural nation, those who live in the UK must learn to understand and respect the legacy and lifestyle of the Muslims who live alongside them, the leaflets read.They were distributed by a group called Public Purity, who stated on their website their intention to have all dogs removed from the public sphere in Britain to keep Muslims pure.
If dogs are not permitted to be present in public, Muslims could live their lives with a burden lifted from their shoulders and without having to fear being tainted with no fault of their own, the group argued.Via: Breitbart