Sean Hannity, in his desperation to show that it s the Clintons, and not Trump, who are horrifically corrupt criminals, keeps pushing the conspiracy theory that DNC staffer Seth Rich was murdered for talking to Wikileaks, completely ignoring the family s wishes that everyone shut up about it.
Hannity is so bad about it, though, that he s begun humiliating his own network.The Daily Beast spoke to over a dozen hosts, pundits and reporters about this, and they all said the same thing: Hannity is embarrassing the network.Period.Apparently, one of Fox s political reporters, who spoke to the Daily Beast on the condition of anonymity, literally said: ARE WE STILL AIRING THAT SHIT?!
Yes.
Yes you are.
And Hannity is all about both that and Donald Trump on Twitter, where he s got over two million followers.
Yesterday, he spent a lot of time trying to convince the Twittersphere that the Trump-Russia connection is a baseless conspiracy theory, and even called on Congress to investigate Rich s murder:Congress, investigate Seth Rich Murder!
@JulianAssange made comments u need to listen to!
If Seth was wiki source, no Trump/Russia collusion https://t.co/QPHZwypU34 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 22, 2017The real journalists at Fox News are sick of this.
Others, who likewise spoke anonymously to the Daily Beast, said things like the following: The other reporters I ve talked to [about this] are similarly pissed about the whole thing, another Fox reporter said.
Some find it embarrassing, others downright heartless [to spread this].
It s just gross, the reporter added.Another news reporter said he is befuddled that the network hasn t intervened to decisively put an end to Hannity s incessant support for, and coverage of, this particular conspiracy theory.And many used words like unhinged and absurd to describe Hannity s behavior.
Ironically, Sean Hannity has used unhinged to talk about Russia and the left on Twitter:Molly why do u and the lib media keep advancing the unhinged Trump/Russia conspiracy?
Any evidence?
Do you believe the robbery story?
https://t.co/7vABvWTPa0 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 22, 2017Late-night hosts become unhinged over the firing of FBI director Comey @michellemalkin weighs in next #Hannity Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 11, 2017The Left is completely unhinged and now they ve turned violent Get my take tonight at 10pm ET #Hannity Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) February 3, 2017Hannity isn t bound by the same journalistic standards as Fox News hard news staff, so he gets away with this.
The fact that he s so far gone now that he s embarrassing people at the network who know better is extremely telling.
If this harms his career, we can expect him to cry liberal conspiracy to silence conservative voices, as loudly as he can, just like he did after Bill O Reilly was let go.Featured image by Paul Zimmerman via Getty Images