Donald Trump rode into the presidency with all the political savvy, intellectual curiosity and diplomatic skills of a bully who s about to repeat the 5th grade.
For many of his supporters, many of whom presumably were bullies who had to repeat 5th grade, that s exactly his appeal.
So why should it surprise anyone that Trump has managed to offend ally after ally while in office?
That s what he was elected to do.Still, nothing in Trump s first 156 (and counting) days in office seems intentional.
On some level, he seems to want to be a diplomat, if for no other reason than to have a legacy, but every single time he tries, he falls flat on his corpulent face.Just last week, for example, Trump sent his son-in-law, Jared Kushner to try to negotiate peace between Israel and Palestine.
It went about as well as you d imagine.
Kushner, who is Orthodox Jewish ad a family friend of Israel s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, met with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, and according to Palestinians, came armed only with a list of Israeli demands.Of course, Palestine was far from the first diplomatic blunder of the Trump administration.
Here s a list of all the countries, most of whom are allies, that Trump has offended:Mexico almost didn t make this list because, well, Trump ran on a campaign of hatred for all things Mexican (except for the cheap labor that makes his cheap ties and suits).
His first campaign promise was to build a wall along the Mexican border, but a feud between Trump and Mexico s President Enrique Pe a Nieto has turned into somewhat of a regular fixture in the Twitterspere.One of Trump s very first moves in office included a phone call to Australia s Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull.
After a heated discussion about Syrian refugees, Trump hung up on the world leader.Trump s entire schtick is about creating fear in the hearts and minds of his voters, so much so that he has been known to make up events just to convince people the world is a scary place.
In February, he made up a terror attack in Sweden during a rally in Florida (yes, the man who won the Electoral College in November and who has innumerable better things to do is still holding campaign style rallies throughout the country).
You look at what s happening in Germany.
You look at what s happening last night in Sweden.
Sweden!
Who would believe this?
Sweden!
They took in large numbers, they re having problems like they never thought possibleNothing had happened the night before in Sweden.Donald Trump has a complicated relationship with smart, powerful women especially if they aren t leggy, blonde and share his DNA.
His relationship with Germany s chancellor, Angela Merkel began badly in March, when Trump famously refused to shake her hand.
That was only the beginning.
Read on for more.In April, Trump hosted the Chinese President Xi Jinping for dinner at Trump s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida.
While the men were enjoying the most beautiful piece of chocolate cake that you ve ever seen, Trump revealed that he was lobbing missiles at Iraq Syria.
While this wasn t really an insult, it did show President Xi that Trump couldn t be trusted to keep secrets.
Before that, though, Trump often referred to China as a currently manipulator After he took office, Trump accepted a congratulatory call from Taiwan.
This was a clear violation of U.S. foreign policy, Taiwan as part of China.If there is a single ally that nearly every Trump supporter can get behind, it s Israel.
While Trump s relationship with Israel is not too bad, at least compared to much of the world, one of perhaps his biggest international blunders came when he traded Israeli secrets with Russians.
Oh, and there was also the time Trump told Israelis, while in Israel, that he just got back from the Middle East.
Israel, of course, is in the Middle East.Trump shoved the Prime Minister so he could get to the front of a photo op.Not satisfied with offending just one country at a time, Trump took on all the European allies by calling them NATO deadbeats.
He singled out Germany by calling them bad, very bad, because Americans love to buy their cars.
He insulted Europe in general by telling them that it s too hard to build golf courses there.For Trump, offending our neighbor to the south isn t enough.
He s had a long-running feud with Canada s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who is Trump s political superior in nearly every way imaginable.
In May, Trump referred to Trudeau as Justin from Canada.
Trump refers to Trudeau as Justin from Canada https://t.co/JGJDhvy6ZK pic.twitter.com/oDnGOpVwaV The Hill (@thehill) May 28, 2017Trump has also managed to offend one of our oldest allies, England.
Well, not England as a whole its capital, London.
Trump has been irrationally critical of London Mayor Sadiq Khan s handling of terror attacks in London.
Khan responded by asking that Trump s upcoming state visit be cancelled.Donald Trump s retreat from the Paris Climate Accord was perhaps his most offensive diplomatic move to date.
There are only two countries that did not sign on to the agreement: Syria and Nicaragua.
The First because they are in the middle of a civil war and the second because the agreement doesn t go far enough.
Trump did it to appease his climate denier base.
The world will be a dirtier place because of it.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images