One of the craziest things about Trump s Russia fiasco is the fact that to defend his role model, Russian president Vladimir Putin, Trump has gone against multiple U.S. intelligence agencies and all mounting evidence that Russia did in fact meddle in the 2016 election.Trump has continued to deny what has been widely accepted as facts by not only intelligence experts but members of his own Republican Party.
Even his own administration is publicly disagreeing with Trump and stating that Russia interfered with the election and today, Trump s UN Ambassador humiliated him on national television over his infamous denial.In an interview with CNN, UN Ambassador Nikki Haley stated that everybody knows that Russia messed around with the election.
What she really should have said was, everyone but Trump.
Haley said: Everybody knows that Russia meddled in our elections.
Everybody knows that they re not just meddling in the United States election.
They re doing this across multiple continents, and they re doing this in a way that they re trying to cause chaos within the countries.
And it s not just going to be us saying this.
I think you re going to hear other leaders come out and say, cut it out, we re not going to put up with it.
You can watch Haley pretty much agree that Trump is a liar in the video below: Everybody knows that Russia meddled in our elections, @nikkihaley tells @DanaBashCNN #CNNSOTU https://t.co/bwQw7Zx3uH CNN (@CNN) July 8, 2017Haley must not be keeping tabs on what her boss is actually saying, because just two days ago Trump refused to say Russia was involved in the election.
The dishonest POTUS said: I think it could very well have been Russia, but I think it could well have been other countries.
I won t be specific.
I think a lot of people interfere.
I think it s been happening for a long time.
When Trump finds out that Haley contradicted him, sh*t is going to hit the fan.
Not only did Haley blast Trump, but she did it on his least favorite network, CNN.
We won t be surprised if a Twitter meltdown is soon to follow.Featured image via Sean Gallup / Getty Images