Trump has been on a 48-hour freak out with the hosts of MSNBC s Morning Joe and his clear incoherence has everyone from mental health experts to average Americans once again concerned that the president is seriously mentally ill.
The evidence that our president is indeed mentally unfit for office is circumstantial but persuasive and Trump keeps digging the hole deeper.Most people would agree that a man who can t stop himself from fabricating a rumor of a bleeding facelift to publicly attack the host of a cable show he doesn t like is unfit for office.
In normal times, that alone would be grounds for invoking the 25th Amendment s clause on the president s mental capacity.
For Trump, that s only the tip of the iceberg, the latest in a seemingly unending string of incidents that should raise serious concerns.The White House seems to be painfully aware that the questions swirling around his stability are undermining the credibility of his role as president.
Consequently, and for the first time in U.S. history, the White House has to run with the narrative that you cannot question the president s mental health.
Trump is sane because they say he is sane and shut up about it.Just hours after Trump got into a public fight with the hosts of Morning Joe on Twitter while he watched the show live, Kellyanne Conway went on ABC s Good Morning America to say it was unpatriotic to ever question whether Trump has lost his mind.
Even while he continues to provide evidence that he has had some sort of mental breakdown.After summarizing an (incomplete) list of the things Trump has been called online, Kellyanne said: It doesn t help the American people to have a president covered in this light.
I m sorry.
It s neither productive nor patriotic.
The toxicity is over the top.
In short, Kellyanne wants us to believe Trump is the victim in all of this.
Meanwhile, he continues to play the part of the bully.Worth remembering: Trump s favorite network, Fox News, once aired Glenn Beck claiming Obama hated white people.
Its star anchor, Sean Hannity, repeatedly accused Obama of being a pathological narcissist.
And its resident mental health expert, repeatedly diagnosed both Barack and Michelle Obama with various pathologies, including once saying Michelle needed to lose weight.
None of that irrational hatred or vitriol caused Obama to live-tweet a rant about Fox News hosts or personally smear them on social media.But then, Obama wasn t mentally ill, so why would he?Featured image via YouTube