One Party Favors Open Borders, The Other Party Favors Law And Order A priest is not only protected by the First Amendment, at least for now, he is also bound by the 5th Commandment, Thou shalt not kill.
If a priest doesn t speak up for the most vulnerable in our society and if the Catholic faithful don t actively protect the most vulnerable in our society by refusing to enable their deliberate destruction with their vote, then such Catholics, the priest and the laity are condoning their acts with their cowardice.
Part of every Catholic s share in the hardship of the gospel, including your priests, is that we must repent of our actions that are offensive to God and destructive to our brothers and sisters.
We must oppose the threats to innocent life that are the most real and the most urgent.
Make no mistake, there is no single issue that threatens innocent human life more directly, consistently, imminently and urgently than the deliberate killing of baby girls and baby boys in their mother s womb No issue!
We have a serious obligation to protect human life, and especially the lives of the most innocent and vulnerable among us.
Whoever fails to do this, whenever otherwise able to do so, commits a serious sin of omission.
They jeopardize their own spiritual well being and are a source of scandal for others.
Should they be Catholics they should NOT receive holy communion.
Now I hope you realize that it takes a lot of courage for a priest to communicate such challenging words as these, reminding his people that some actions are so greatly sinful, that they render a Catholic unworthy of holy communion until there is complete repentance.
A priest who is more concerned about the state of his peoples souls than they are themselves, deserves the esteem of his people for his willingness to speak such difficult truth with genuine love.
To put the welfare of his people s souls ahead of his own reputation, popularity or comfort.
Such a priest should receive respect, admiration and support, rather than resistance or criticism.
So please pray for, thank and encourage the spiritual Father that God has appointed for you, and who loves you enough to tell you the truth with those challenging words.
Because the priest who said those particular words is your Bishop and my Bishop.