This one sentence should scare every taxpaying American to death: I know we can afford it because we re gonna make the wealthy pay for it.
- HRCLast night s debate for the candidates running for President on the Democrat side proved to be a fluff fest as if Santa himself was in the room.
Free college, free this and free that Could someone please tell these people we re 18 TRILLION dollars in debt!Here s the transcript from Rush today that speaks to this Santa syndrome in the Democrat party:RUSH: First up is a montage here from the debate last night.
Bernie Sanders, Hillary, Lincoln Chafee, and they re all talking about all the free stuff.
College and health care and whatever you want.
If you re an illegal immigrant, it s all yours.
All you have to do is show up.SANDERS: Make every public college and university in this country tuition-free.HILLARY: Anyone to go to a public college or university tuition-free.SANDERS: We re all gonna have medical and family paid leave.HILLARY: Make sure every child gets health care, including undocumented children and others.CHAFEE: Funding education, funding infrastructure, funding health care.HILLARY: Enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of Social Security.SANDERS: We should be putting money into education.
I want Wall Street now to help kids in this country go to college, public colleges and universities.HILLARY: I know we can afford it because we re gonna make the wealthy pay for it.RUSH: (laughing) We can afford it cause we re gonna make the wealthy pay.
We are $18 trillion in debt.
Now, you can afford anything if you ignore that, and if you don t think that s a problem and if that number is irrelevant, the money never has to even be serviced or paid back, then of course you can afford anything.
But the truth is, we can t afford anything.
We can afford maybe, what, what s the number that we drag in by tax revenue every year?
The numbers are confusing, but $3 trillion whatever we can afford every year, but we so exceed that.
We have exceeded it for so long.
We re already paying for things we can t afford.
And these people just want to lap more and more on top of it.Via: Rush Limbaugh