Instead of respectfully attending President Obama s final State of the Union Address like other Republican nominees, Ted Cruz is skipping it.The Texas Tea Party Senator made the decision to campaign in New Hampshire on January 12th rather than spending a couple hours respectfully listening to what our current commander-in-chief has to say during one of his last major speeches as president.Of course, it s not like Cruz couldn t fly in and fly back out after the speech is over, which is why this definitely feels like a snub of President Obama, especially when you consider that Senators Rand Paul, Marco Rubio, and Bernie Sanders are all putting their campaigns on pause for the evening to hear what President Obama has to say.But Cruz campaign spokesman Rick Tyler insists that this isn t a snub at all.
Cruz is simply working hard to win New Hampshire, he says, even though Cruz is in third place in the Granite State 16-points behind leader Donald Trump.
It s not a snub.
He s going to be in New Hampshire, working hard to win New Hampshire.
No disrespect.
It just is going to work out this way.
Tyler also added that Cruz will be be disappointed with the speech no matter where he is at the time it is delivered.
It won t matter because he ll be just as disappointed in New Hampshire as he will be in the chamber, he said.Adding further insult and disrespect toward President Obama, Cruz intends to hold his own State of the Union hours before the real one in what the Dallas Morning News reports is being billed as the State of Our Union Town Hall Meeting with Senator Ted Cruz.
Basically, Cruz is snubbing the State of the Union Address to run off and pretend he is already president.And his disrespectful actions could come back to haunt him come Election Day in November.James Madison University professor of media and politics Dan Schill told The Hill that while Cruz s stunt won t necessarily harm him among Republican primary voters who already cheer anybody who disrespects President Obama, it may cost him voters who see this as being disrespectful.
I don t think it will necessarily turn off too many primary voters in New Hampshire and Iowa, but there is that risk, he said.
The choice to stiff the speech can send a message it s time for change.
It may also backfire for people who see it as not respecting office of the presidency.
In short, Ted Cruz is being a disrespectful little prick who believes he can fire up New Hampshire Republicans to vote for him if he snubs President Obama.It s one thing to dislike the man who is president, but disrespecting the office is totally unacceptable and proves once again that Ted Cruz isn t qualified to be president, whether he is a natural born citizen or not.Featured Image: Wikimedia