A Trump supporter thought he was clever when he wrote a letter to the editor of his local paper, the Winchester Star, criticizing Hate has no home here signs that were popping up in his area.
The signs feature the phrase written in a number of languages and should be seen as a positive thing by everyone, but Trump supporters are filled to the brim with hatred, so self-described 50-year Tea Partier became triggered and wrote an angry letter full of so much whining that it would cause notorious white grievance princess and former Blaze personality Tomi Lahren to scream SNOWFLAKE for six hours in an unhinged Facebook video post if a liberal wrote it.Natale posed a number of incredibly stupid questions he didn t expect to be answered but then a 7th grader by the name of Luke Macannuco answered them and delivered a smackdown so hard that the Tea Partier might think twice about saying or writing something this stupid again (Oh, who are we kidding?
He won t).
I read, with great interest, Mr. John Natale s colossal misunderstanding of the Hate Has No Home Here signs.
Natale s first mistake was claiming the signs read, Hate has no place in this home .
the teen s letter begins.
Mr. Natale is incorrectly assuming that the owners of the sign are finding it necessary to state that there is no hate in their home.
But, as the American flag depicted on the sign signifies, the posters are referencing the entire U.S.A., a country that does not tolerate hate in spite of its current leadership.
Those people who have chosen to place a Hate Has No Home Here sign on their lawn are standing behind their belief that the country should be free of hate.
The teen then addressed the meat of Natale s moronic writings, and it is the best thing you will read for quite some time until you see what came after it, that is:Mr. Natale also lists questions that have remained unanswered, so it is my duty to define his burning inquiries:1.
Question: Who are the haters that you, the sign owner, are referring to?
Answer: Bigots who are trying to take away protections for transgender students, deport refugees and build a very expensive wall to keep illegal immigrants out (which is completely pointless and not helping your cause, but I digress).2.
Question: What, or whom, do the haters hate?
Answer: Perfectly innocent human beings who happen to be different from the haters.3.
Question: What is the evidence that there is significant hate in our community?
Answer: Me getting called homosexual slurs by students and adults alike.4.
Question: Obviously, you are so morally superior that you may declare everyone who disagrees with you a hater (side note: this first part is a statement, not a question).
Where, when, and how did you become the Lord High Decider of Morality?
Answer: Never.
We just put a lawn sign down.
Calm down, dude.This is enough to have most right-wingers peeing themselves like a couple of Russian prostitutes on a certain billionaire s Moscow hotel bed, but our hero wasn t done:As I stated previously, the signs are not talking exclusively about Winchester.
The signs are about the whole United States.
They also aren t implying you are a hater if you disagree; where did you get that idea?
Also, Mr. Natale, if you re going to ask us to do you a favor and take the signs down, do humanity a favor and take your Trump signs down.
Finally, if you are going to say signs exhibit snowflake sensitivity, take a moment to think about how you are writing an angry letter to a newspaper about a lawn sign.And the crowd went wild:@segalmr @fuggirls If ur going to think signs display snowflake sensitivity think about how you are writing a letter to a newspaper about a sign.
pic.twitter.com/5cOopDqQb0 Sela Lewis (@SelaNehanda) April 29, 2017@segalmr @AlJavieera Controlled burn.
Do not report.
Badlands Drifter (@JoelVanderWerf) April 29, 2017@segalmr @AndyRichter i love that kids have more sense than most adults these days.
Raz Bean (@razbean) April 29, 2017@PObbard @segalmr Oh my God this letter!
I love this kid.
Dan Lyons (@realdanlyons) April 30, 2017@segalmr Holy shit Epic take-down, but done with class & subtlety that escapes most adults these days.
Pietro (@Pietro5266) April 30, 2017@segalmr Holy.
Fucking.
Yes.
Manthony (@matanunpa) April 30, 2017@segalmr Obviously we elected the wrong seventh-grader as president.
Bryan Edward Stone (@bestoneTX) April 30, 2017@segalmr Well said.
pic.twitter.com/dgF3nRf4jx Elizabeth (@loveylovett) April 30, 2017That sound you just heard?
It was the agonizing scream of the last of Natale s pride.Featured image via screengrab