Cori Langdon, a Las Vegas cab driver recorded her harrowing experience as she entered the Mandalay Bay Casino at about the same time gunshots were first being fired into the crowd at the Rt 91 country music festival in Las Vegas.Langdon was using her phone to videotape, as she was pulling into the Mandalay Bay Casino, when she heard gunshots.
She can be heard telling the dispatch operator for her cab service that she hears what sounds like automatic gunfire.
Cori Langdon hears more gun fire, and tells her dispatch operator that the gun shots sound like they re coming from a completely different area: Now it sounds like its coming from farther away.
After listening to Langdon s video recording of the event as it unfolded, one can t help but wonder if it s possible there was more than one shooter.
Automatic gunshots are still being heard from the cab.
Langdon tells her dispatch person: Somethings going on.
I m not sure why people aren t running, but.
There s a security guard, what s he doing?
Ya know, for there being gunfire, it sure doesn t seem like people are runnin .
Oh, shit!
Seriously?
I don t know what s goin on?
Where are the cops at?
I m right here by the porch of Mandalay Bay, and everything seems to be normal here.
More and more rapid-fire gunshots are heard.
The radio dispatcher replies, Remember, what happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas.
And everything seems normal when it s not.
Langdon and the other drivers are then warned by another driver that claims he just got details from the metro police at the airport, Do not go to Mandalay Bay!
Langdon then says she s leaving, I m leaving.
I don t know why people aren t leaving.
This is insane.
Everyone s just standing around, it doesn t seem like anybody s uh moving.
She then gets a message on her radio telling her, Shots fired.
They don t even know the details yet.
I just talked to the Metro here at the airport and they re still getting the details, but there s multiple injuries and uh (inaudible) That s all they re saying though.
They re saying stay away from there, uh, they re shutting the whole place down.
Langdon continues to have a conversation with her dispatch people on the radio in her car.
She is remarkably calm amongst the chaos going on around her.
Langdon tells dispatch, Alright, I m oughta here , as she speculates that she believes the shots are coming from the 10th floor of the hotel.
As she s attempting to leave the premises, some panicked concertgoers, who appear to be injured, enter her cab at the Mandalay Bay Casino.
The passengers get into the car screaming, Broken leg, broken leg!
Drive, broken leg!
Let s go, let s go Langdon asks the passenger where they want to go, to which they reply, Anywhere!
Langdon asks the passengers, Is there somebody out there?
to which the passengers reply, Yes, yes, and active shooter.
The passengers reply, Heck yeah!
Go, go, go!
Langdon: Oh, oh, and active shooter?
Alright.
Passengers: Go, go, go!
Langdon: Go, okay.
Alright, alright.
Oh g*d, alright, there is an active shooter then.
The female passenger replies: Yes, so many people are dead!
Langdon asks: Are you kidding me?
The passengers appear to be in pain and are screaming in the back seat.Langdon yells at them: Okay, close the door, close the door!
The passengers yell: Okay, lock the doors!
Go, go, please drive!
Langdon: Oh my g*d, okay.
Alright, alright, I m going, I m going, okay.
Oh shit!
Where are we going?
The male passenger is freaking out and asks: Are you going as fast as you can?
Are you f*cking videotaping this?Langdon replied: Yeah, I am.
I didn t know it was so bad!
Okay.
The female passenger implored Langdon to get out of the area: Thousands of people are dead!
Everybody s dead, c mon!
and go!
and get out of the area.Next, the passengers begin to panic, as Langdon isn t leaving the scene fast enough, not understanding how many people are running in front of her cab to get away from the scene.Langdon calmly drives people out of the scene as she relays the situation to her dispatch unit, and the passengers relay the horrific scene of dead people everywhere!
to their parents on their cell phones.Watch: