When your presidential candidate is supported by the media of a corrupt tyrannical regime, that s a bad sign.North Korea is a sworn enemy of the United States, threatening us with nuclear strikes for many years and demanding that we pull our military out of South Korea, a move that would almost certainly be followed by a North Korean invasion of our ally.And that s precisely why North Korean media is enthusiastic about Donald Trump.According to NKNews.org,The article published in state media outlet DPRK Today also referred to Trump s proposal to hold direct talks with Kim Jong Un, praising the likely Republican nominee as a wise politician and far-sighted presidential candidate.
In my personal opinion, there are many positive aspects to the Trump s inflammatory policies , wrote Han Yong Mook, who introduced himself as a Chinese North Korean scholar.
Trump said he will not get involved in the war between the South and the North, isn t this fortunate from North Koreans perspective?
Indeed, it would be most fortunate for North Korea because they wouldn t have to fight our military and South Korea s military at the same time in their effort to unite the two Koreas under a single banner.
Of course, uniting would come at a great cost to South Korea since Kim Jong Un would still be the dictator of a united Korea.
That is non-negotiable as far as the North Korean leader is concerned.Trump has already threatened to pull US forces out of South Korea unless the government in Seoul increases domestic military spending.
Furthermore, he has indicated that he would like to negotiate with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un.DPRK Today especially likes this and urged Trump to do it.
Yes do it, now Who knew that the slogan Yankee Go Home would come true like this?
The day when the Yankee Go Home slogan becomes real would be the day of Korean Unification.
They even went so far as to attack Hillary Clinton on Trump s behalf, which every single American should be concerned about.
The president that U.S. citizens must vote for is not that dull Hillary who claimed to adapt the Iranian model to resolve nuclear issues on the Korean Peninsula but Trump, who spoke of holding direct conversation with North Korea.
Seriously, North Korea is part of the axis of evil former President Bush spoke of during his tenure in the White House.
Now the Republican Party has gone from that to being endorsed by North Korean media.Aidan Foster-Carter of the University of Leeds, who is Honorary Senior Research Fellow in Sociology and Modern Korea, viewed the media support as concerning.
Admittedly it is not exactly Pyongyang speaking, or at least not the DPRK government in an official capacity, Foster-Carter conceded.
But it is certainly Pyongyang flying a kite, or testing the waters.
For the rest of us, this is a timely reminder if it were needed of just how completely Trump plans to tear up established U.S. policy in the region; and what an irresponsible, unthinking menace the man is.
Again, the Republican presidential nominee has the support of North Korea because he has threatened to weaken South Korea if Seoul does not comply with his demands.Trump has even expressed admiration for the way Kim Jong Un kills people to retain power.
You ve got to give him credit.
How many young guys he was like 26 or 25 when his father died take over these tough generals and all of a sudden, you know, it s pretty amazing when you think of it.
How does he do that?
Even though it is a culture, and it s a culture thing, he goes in, he takes over, he s the boss.
It s incredible.
He wiped out the uncle, he wiped out this one, that one.
I mean this guy doesn t play games.
Every American should be very concerned and very scared about this, especially Republicans who claim they care about our national security and the security of our closest allies.Featured Image: Joe Raedle/Getty Images