Massachusetts Rep. Jim McGovern brought the House down with a scathing rebuke of the pathetic Republican healthcare bill on Tuesday.He began by pointing out that the bill destroys all of the good things that the Affordable Care Act provides, such as covering preexisting conditions and allowing kids to stay on their parents insurance until the age of 26.McGovern conceded that the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, is not perfect.
It has some issues that can be fixed, and Democrats have repeatedly offered to work with Republicans to fix the problems and cover more people while also bringing down costs.But as McGovern noted, Republicans are only obsessed with repealing the law.
They have no interest in fixing the minor problems, many of which they created themselves by chipping away at the law over the years.So far, the Republican bill touted by Trump has failed several times in the House because even many Republicans are concerned about the fact that repealing the Affordable Care Act would strip healthcare away from millions of Americans, including their own constituents.For months, Republicans have been torn a new one by their constituents at town halls over their effort to repeal what has become a very popular law.
It is even more popular than Donald Trump now.In their continued effort to sell the bill to the American people, Trump and House Republicans have been insisting that it covers pre-existing conditions.
But that is a complete lie.Nowhere in the Trumpcare bill will you find a passage making it clear that people with pre-existing conditions won t lose their insurance.
It s just not there.McGovern called out Republicans for this lie on the House floor.
To claim or to imply that the Republican plan covers people with preexisting conditions, it is a lie, McGovern declared.
It is a lie.
And let s be honest about it.
This does not cover people with preexisting conditions.
And to come on the floor and say it does, to try to fool people, well, you may get away with it in the short term, you may get a headline but I tell you people will figure out soon enough when they are denied health care coverage.
Furthermore, Republicans refuse to get a CBO score for the bill before holding a vote because they know it will get a failing grade.For one thing, the bill would be a massive tax cut for the wealthy at the expense of the millions of Americans who finally got healthcare coverage through the Medicaid expansion.McGovern shamed Republicans for this.
You should be ashamed, McGovern said.
To have a health care bill that cuts Medicaid by $880 billion so you can give a tax cut to the wealthiest people in this country, you should be ashamed.
He then called upon Republicans to vote against the bill or pull it entirely and received a standing ovation.Here s the video via YouTube.If Trump and Republicans have their way, millions of Americans will suffer so that wealthy assholes can get even richer.
That s outrageous.But even more outrageous is the fact that while the American people will lose the benefits of the Affordable Care Act, Republicans have exempted themselves from losing the same benefits the law provides.That s right.
Republicans are literally making sure that they get to keep their Obamacare.
That makes them heartless and selfish as well as hypocrites.
They should not only be ashamed, they should be booted out of office.Featured image screenshot