The Trump campaign and the conservative media have been having a field day with Hillary s health.
The idea that she s in really bad health is an absolutely asinine theory that s gotten to the point where some are circulating fake medical documents, while others, like Martin Pharma Bro Shkreli (who isn t anything like a doctor) are diagnosing her with things like Parkinson s.During a very recent stump speech, she stopped to cough.
Knowing that conservatives were going to pounce on her again for that, she said: Every time I think about Trump I get allergic.
She s allergic to Donald Trump!
(Aren t we all?)
This made the audience roar, and it s made others laugh, too.
It s not difficult to be allergic to Trump his speeches are really nothing more than giant fountains of toxic waste.
Toxic waste contains all kinds of things that cause serious health conditions, so it s not too far a stretch to think it also triggers allergic reactions.
Since symptoms of allergies can include coughing, this is a totally, utterly, completely perfect comeback.Watch that segment of her speech below:The Trump campaign, of course, doesn t think it s so funny.
Kellyanne Conway, Trump s campaign manager, seized on Hillary s comeback on Twitter (she s very unhappy about this):Must be allergic to media.
Finally spent a minute w/ them.
Hillary Has A Nearly 2 Minute Long Coughing Fit [VIDEO] https://t.co/G0rKPfAjmr Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) September 5, 2016The speculation about Hillary s health actually started two years ago with former chief Republican dunce Karl Rove.
Rove wanted to know what was up with Hillary being hospitalized for a concussion, and then reappearing with these glasses people wear when they ve got traumatic brain injuries.
We need to know what s up with that, he said.Newsflash to Rove and others who are harping on her for seemingly trying to hide a traumatic brain injury: A concussion is a traumatic brain injury.But that s neither here nor there.From that point on, conservatives who hate her, and Trump s campaign, have seized on all manner of things that supposedly prove she s too sick to serve as president.
She s not too sick.
She s just allergic to Trump, like most of the rest of the sane world.Featured image by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images