If there was any doubt about whether or not Hillary Clinton had the black vote locked up, said doubts are sure to be squashed now.
The Congressional Black Caucus will formally endorse the former Secretary of State for president on Thursday morning, according to The Washington Post.
Endorsing isn t all they are doing, either.Following the planned meeting with the Democratic National Committee to officially hand Clinton their nod, Caucus leaders will send their troops out into states where the black vote is a make-or-break situation to make sure that they have as much support for their candidate as possible.
They are intensely focused on South Carolina, where getting the black vote out will definitely be a boost for whichever candidate takes that state s primary.
From the Washington Post: It s one thing to endorse and do nothing.
It s another thing to endorse and to go to work, said Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.), chairman of the CBC PAC.
These lawmakers are, Meeks said, people that can actually testify [to] the work that Hillary Clinton has done.
This is so true.
Endorsements hold power, but the work that goes along with them is just as if not more than important.
A whopping 90 percent of the Congressional Black Caucus is on board with endorsing Clinton.
Rep. G.K. Butterfield (D- NC), who chairs the Caucus, says of the endorsement of Clinton over Sanders, despite the fact that Sanders message is popular with young progressives: Many of these are first-time voters and Senator Sanders message resonates with the younger generation because of the promises that he is making.
But Mrs. Clinton and others are going to challenge the message by suggesting that it is unrealistic to believe that we can accomplish all of the things that Senator Sanders proposes.
They need to understand that when a candidate presents a message, you ve got to pierce the message to determine whether or not it s realistic, given the political climate that we live in.
It s not a negative, it s not an aspersion on the new voter.
It s the fact that many of them are inexperienced and have not gone through a presidential election cycle before.
And that is what is important they aren t against Sanders just because they are for Clinton.
It is important for folks here on the left to realize you can support one candidate over the other during the primary, but to ultimately vote blue in November.Congratulations, Secretary Clinton!Featured image via Hillary Clinton Twitter