Even from the beginning of his hate-fueled, bigoted presidential campaign, it was obvious that Donald Trump did not give a damn about America and the values the country was built upon.
Trump has carried this anti-American attitude straight into his failing, undeserved presidency and yet he has the nerve to call the media the enemy of the American people because of unfavorable coverage.Despite how many distractions Trump tries to create to hide his failures and f*ckups, we shouldn t forget who the real threat to America is and MSNBC host Joe Scarborough wasn t afraid to point it out.
Earlier today, Scarborough called out Trump s attacks on the media, calling it the real enemy because it might encourage violence against the journalists who are reporting the truth about Trump.On Morning Joe, Scarborough echoed the comments of Republican senator John McCain, who said that Trump s attack on the media sounded like a dictator and that he had gone too far.
Scarborough ripped Trump: It s one thing to say the press is liberal, it s one thing to say the 9th Circuit (Court) is liberal, but when you start saying that somebody is an enemy of the people, then that does incite people to violence especially if it s coming from the president of the United States.
Scarborough revealed that thanks to Trump, journalists are now getting death threats on a daily basis just for telling the truth about the Trump administration, putting their lives in danger.
When you receive tweets every day, and somebody s threatening your life and they talk about lynching you and your family after President Trump has his way with the media, this happens over and over again, and I don t think there s anybody who s in the media that doesn t hear that every day.
So yeah, this is very, very dangerous.
Scarborough also nailed Trump on his fake news tantrums, noting the irony that Trump and his team are the most dishonest administration we ve ever seen.
Most recently, Trump even made up a completely bogus terrorist attack!
Scarborough said: As Jesus said, don t throw stones if you live in glass houses.
This man lives in the biggest glass house there is when it comes to a disconnection from truth.
So to attack the media and then say they re enemies of the people is beyond the pale.
And if Trump thought that attacking the press was going to shut the media down, Scarborough gave him a brutal reality check: Let s talk about things in a way that Donald Trump can understand ratings and let s just put it all out on the table.
Everybody s ratings are up, newspaper subscriptions at the New York Times are exploding, the Washington Post doing better than it s ever done before.
CNN from the day that Donald Trump called them fake news, CNN s numbers have exploded.
Donald Trump has been Jeff Zucker s you can tell they ve been great friends for a very long time, because there is nothing Donald Trump could do to help CNN more.
They re enjoying record numbers.
You can watch Scarborough rip Trump below: Featured image via screenshot and Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images