Here s the brutal truth on the socialist who wanted to be your next president and take your hard earned money:Sanders spent most of his life as an angry radical and agitator who never accomplished much of anything.
And yet now he thinks he deserves the power to run your life and your finances We will raise taxes; he confirmed Monday, yes, we will.
One of his first jobs was registering people for food stamps, and it was all downhill from there.Sanders took his first bride to live in a maple sugar shack with a dirt floor, and she soon left him.
Penniless, he went on unemployment.
Then he had a child out of wedlock.
Desperate, he tried carpentry but could barely sink a nail.
He was a shi**y carpenter, a friend told Politico Magazine.
His carpentry was not going to support him, and didn t. Then he tried his hand freelancing for leftist rags, writing about masturbation and rape and other crudities for $50 a story.
He drove around in a rusted-out, Bondo-covered VW bug with no working windshield wipers.
Friends said he was always poor and his electricity was turned off a lot.
They described him as a slob who kept a messy apartment and this is what his friends had to say about him.The only thing he was good at was talking non-stop about socialism and how the rich were ripping everybody off.
The whole quality of life in America is based on greed, the bitter layabout said.
I believe in the redistribution of wealth in this nation.
So he tried politics, starting his own socialist party.
Four times he ran for Vermont public office, and four times he lost badly.
He never attracted more than single-digit support even in the People s Republic of Vermont.
In his 1971 bid for U.S. Senate, the local press said the 30-year-old Sanders describes himself as a carpenter who has worked with disturbed children.
In other words, a real winner.He finally wormed his way into the Senate in 2006, where he still ranks as one of the poorest members of Congress.
Save for a municipal pension, Sanders lists no assets in his name.
All the assets provided in his financial disclosure form are his second wife s. He does, however, have as much as $65,000 in credit-card debt.Sure, Sanders may not be a hypocrite, but this is nothing to brag about.
His worthless background contrasts sharply with the successful careers of other outsiders in the race for the White House, including a billionaire developer, a world-renowned neurosurgeon and a Fortune 500 CEO.The choice in this election is shaping up to be a very clear one.
It will likely boil down to a battle between those who create and produce wealth, and those who take it and redistribute it.Via: IBD