Not only is Donald Trump an admitted serial groper and adulterer, he s a bonafide pervert who likes looking at nude underage teen girls.In 2005, Trump bragged to Billy Bush about how he is able to walk up to women and grab them by the p*ssy because he is a star.
Well, that remark just got even creepier because he bragged to Howard Stern in the same year that he gets away with walking into dressing rooms to look at naked Miss Teen USA contestants because he owns the pageant.
I ll go backstage and everyone s getting dressed, and everything else, and you know, no men are anywhere, and I m allowed to go in because I m the owner of the pageant and therefore I m inspecting it Is everyone OK?
You know, they re standing there with no clothes.
Is everybody OK?
And you see these incredible looking women, and so, I sort of get away with things like that.
Indeed, so it sounds like Donald Trump only purchased Miss USA, Miss Universe, and Miss Teen USA so that he could have easy access to women and girls and he abused his power in order to violate their privacy.And that s exactly what Trump did according to several women who have come forward to reveal that Trump walked in on them, some of whom were only 15 years old, changing in their dressing room.
I remember putting on my dress really quick because I was like, Oh my god, there s a man in here, former Miss Vermont Teen USA Mariah Billado told Buzzfeed.
Billado even remembers Trump remarking, Don t worry, ladies, I ve seen it all before.
But there s more.According to Buzzfeed,Three other women, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of getting engulfed in a media firestorm, also remembered Trump entering the dressing room while girls were changing.
Two of them said the girls rushed to cover their bodies, with one calling it shocking and creepy.
The third said she was clothed and introduced herself to Trump.Seriously, Donald Trump should have been on the sex offender list.
He sure as hell shouldn t be the nominee of a major political party for the presidency.But Republicans continue to support Trump despite his lewd comments and predatory behavior.
Their wives, daughters, mothers, and sisters must be so proud.Featured Image: Ralph Freso/Getty Images