To say Hillary Clinton wiped the floor with Donald Trump during her foreign policy speech is being far too polite.
She demolished him.
She hit him, and hit him repeatedly hard.
Going after him in regards to everything he s said over the past year and how utterly dangerous and reprehensible he would be as Commander-in-Chief.She hit him so hard, in fact, that Trump got very, very flustered.
He responded in a speech clearly sweating and angrily shaking the podium.
I mean, after all, how dare a woman call him out so astutely and with such bravado.Trump also took to Twitter the next day still not over it, and still not knowing how to spell teleprompter.
Trump tweeted out: In Crooked Hillary s telepromter speech yesterday, she made up things that I said or believe but have no basis in fact.
Not honest!
In Crooked Hillary's telepromter speech yesterday, she made up things that I said or believe but have no basis in fact.
Not honest!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 3, 2016Noticing the tweet was the Hillary campaign, who quickly tweeted out not only that everything she said was true, but fact checked him line by line.
It was pure poetry, saying: You literally said all those things.
Then posted a link to everything that was said.You literally said all those things.
https://t.co/6VX5AfR7gL https://t.co/U8LfWdPU7x Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 3, 2016For example, Hillary said during her speech: He says he doesn t have to listen to our generals or ambassadors, because he has quote a very good brain.
She then lists exactly what Trump said:TRUMP: I m speaking with myself, number one, because I have a very good brain and I ve said a lot of things my primary consultant is myself And there are far too many to list here, so go check out every line by line fact check HERE.Something tells me as the election heats up, and if Hillary is the Democratic nominee, we re going to be seeing a lot more of this, and it s going to be f*cking awesome.Featured Photo by Spencer Platt Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images