In case you didn t know, there was an explosion in Lower Manhattan Saturday night, resulting in a reported 26 injuries.
Luckily, none of those injuries are life threatening at this time.
However, that does not make such an event any less frightening or tragic for New York City, or for our country.
Right now, the appropriate response is to help the victims if we can, to spread only correct information, and stay informed.
That isn t the response from Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, though.When news of the explosion broke, Trump was speaking to a large crowd.
He announced the explosion, and, just as he did after the horrific massacre at Orlando s Pulse Night Club, used the event to congratulate himself.
He touts the need to get very tough, and sows fear.
Trump says: Just before I got off the plane, a bomb went off in New York and nobody knows exactly what s going on, but we are living in a time when we ve got to get very tough, folks.
We ve got to get very, very tough.
It s a terrible thing that s going on in our world and in our country and we are going to get tough and smart and vigilant.
We re gonna end it.
We re gonna end it.
After that, he praised his Colorado crowd and said how awesome it was to be there, and then touted his poll numbers, saying: And a new poll from Emerson just came out and we re up four points in Colorado!
Watch the video below, via Dave Itzkoff s Twitter:Trump in Colorado, telling crowd that a bomb just went off in NY.
Then says he's up 4 points in new poll.
pic.twitter.com/3CN20XqwmL Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) September 18, 2016It appears that Trump is back to his old self.
This is no time to be touting poll numbers or trafficking in fear.
As Americans, we do not use tragic events to congratulate ourselves or to scare people into doing as we wish.
This is what demagogues throughout history have done, and that is just what Donald Trump is a dangerous, bigoted demagogue.
History tells us how that situation ends.
Let s not make that mistake again.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images