How this woman is even trending in the polls should tell you everything you need to know about the Democrat party Good morning, ma am, a member of the uniformed Secret Service once greeted Hillary Clinton.
F off, she replied.That exchange is one among many that active and retired Secret Service agents shared with Ronald Kessler, author of First Family Detail, a compelling look at the intrepid personnel who shield America s presidents and their families and those whom they guard.Kessler writes flatteringly and critically about people in both parties.
Regarding the Clintons, Kessler presents Chelsea as a model protectee who respected and appreciated her agents.
He describes Bill as a difficult chief executive, but an easygoing ex-president.
And Kessler exposes Hillary as an epically abusive Arctic monster.
When in public, Hillary smiles and acts graciously, Kessler explains.
As soon as the cameras are gone, her angry personality, nastiness, and imperiousness become evident.
He adds: Hillary Clinton can make Richard Nixon look like Mahatma Gandhi.
Kessler was an investigative reporter with the Wall Street Journal and Washington Post and has penned 19 other books.
Among much more in First Family Detail, he reports: Hillary was very rude to agents, and she didn t appear to like law enforcement or the military, former Secret Service agent Lloyd Bulman recalls.
She wouldn t go over and meet military people or police officers, as most protectees do.
She was just really rude to almost everybody.
She d act like she didn t want you around, like you were beneath her.
Hillary didn t like the military aides wearing their uniforms around the White House, one former agent remembers.
She asked if they would wear business suits instead.
The uniform s a sign of pride, and they re proud to wear their uniform.
I know that the military was actually really offended by it.
Former agent Jeff Crane says, Hillary would cuss at Secret Service drivers for going over bumps.
Another former member of her detail recollects, Hillary never talked to us .
.
.
Most all members of first families would talk to us and smile.
She never did that.
We spent years with her, yet another Secret Service agent notes.
She never said thank you.
Within the White House, Hillary had a standing rule that no one spoke to her when she was going from one location to another, says former FBI agent Coy Copeland.
In fact, anyone who would see her coming would just step into the first available office.
One former Secret Service agent states, If Hillary was walking down a hall, you were supposed to hide behind drapes used as partitions.
Hillary one day ran into a White House electrician who was changing a lightbulb in the upstairs family quarters.
She screamed at him, because she had demanded that all repairs be performed while the Clintons were outside the Executive Mansion.
She caught the guy on a ladder doing the lightbulb, says Franette McCulloch, who served at that time as assistant White House pastry chef.
He was a basket case.
White House usher Christopher B. Emery unwisely called back Barbara Bush after she phoned him for computer troubleshooting.
Emery helped the former first lady twice.
Consequently, Kessler reports, Hillary sacked him.
The father of four stayed jobless for a year.While running for US Senate, Hillary stopped at an upstate New York 4-H Club.
As one Secret Service agent says, Hillary saw farmers and cows and then erupted.
She turned to a staffer and said, What the f - - - did we come here for?
There s no money here.
Secret Service agents consider being assigned to her detail a form of punishment, Kessler concludes.
In fact, agents say being on Hillary Clinton s detail is the worst duty assignment in the Secret Service.
Watch Hillary show her true colors when a reporter in Africa accidentally refers to Barack Obama as Mr. Clinton.
Hillary doesn t forgive her faux pas and does her best to embarrass the reporter:After studying the Secret Service and its relationships with dozens of presidents, vice-presidents and their families, Ronald Kessler s astonishment at Hillary Clinton s inhumanity should reverberate in every American s head.As he told me: No one would hire such a person to work at a McDonald s, and yet she is being considered for president of the United States.
Via: NYP