The New York Observer, which Ivanka Trump s husband, Jared Kushner, owns, has made its presidential endorsement.
Or, more accurately, its presidential non-endorsement.
After endorsing Trump during the primaries, his own son-in-law s paper has decided it s not endorsing anyone at all.The Observer s editor-in-chief, Ken Kurson, simply said: Observer is not going to make an endorsement in the general.
Oh, ouch.
That just hurts, at least for Trump.
We re ecstatic.
The Observer can t endorse Hillary or they d probably all get fired, and the same thing could happen if they endorsed a third-party candidate.
But it seems that they can t, in good conscience, endorse their owner s father-in-law.Wow.Trump hasn t been able to get very many newspaper endorsements in the general in fact, he s only gotten six endorsements in all, and they re all from small papers with the exception of Sheldon Adelson s Las Vegas Review-Journal.
That s it.
That s all.
Hundreds of newspapers in the country, and Trump garners a whole six endorsements.Compare that to Hillary s dozens of newspaper endorsements, which include conservative papers like the Arizona Republic, which had never endorsed a Democratic candidate in its 126-year history, and the Dallas Morning News, which hadn t endorsed a Democrat for more than 75 years.
Other papers with strong histories of endorsing Republicans likewise broke with tradition to endorse Hillary.You know your candidate just sucks horrifically when his own son-in-law s paper can t bring itself to endorse him.
Amusingly, the Observer has actually had issues with its coverage of Trump because of Kushner s relationship, with Kurson saying in 2015: If we run something pro-Trump we will automatically be accused of carrying water for him (on account of the relationship to our publisher).
If we run something anti-Trump, we will be accused of trying to curry favor with our peers in journalism or worse, intentionally being only a little hard on him so that later we can love him up and point to the earlier softball as proof that we re fair.
So they re in an impossible position, really, but their refusal to endorse Trump at all is a blow to his standing as a candidate.Featured image by Brian Blanco via Getty Images