CNN s Chris Cuomo tried to have a discussion about police brutality and race on Monday morning, and it didn t go over too well.
The conversation barely got five minutes in before a racist statement set off the rest of the panel, resulting in a shouting match that Cuomo could barely control.The panel was comprised of retired NYPD Detective Harry Houck, Former NYPD Chief Philip Banks and CNN s Marc Lamont Hill.
Hill, who is a Morehouse College professor, spoke about the systemic racism that black communities have been facing, while Houck was more interested in defending law enforcement and came out with statistics about black crime in New York City to prove his point.
Huock said: Facts have gotta matter.
The police have already recognized the fact that we ve got issues that we need to deal with.
Now the black community has to also know that they have issues they need to deal with.
This isn t a one-way street here.
This is where it all went downhill.
Huock rattled off the following stats: In New York City alone, blacks are 23% [of the population]; they make up 75% of all shootings, 70% of all robberies, 60% of all violent crimes.
White only 3%.
That is why there are more blacks in jail than there are whites.
Hill fired back, denouncing that those numbers were the result of a system that s dysfunctional .
As Hill tried to convince Houck that the power should be given to citizens rather than law enforcement, tensions erupted when Houck made the inference of black criminality.
Hill called Houck out for his racist comment and shouted: You think black people are prone to criminality!?
You didn t mean to say that.
I m gonna give you a chance to correct yourself!
When Houck referred back to his statistics, Hill shot him down again and said, Harry, Googling some numbers is different than talking to me!
The shouting match between the two continued, and Banks waited until the shouting had died down a bit to suggest more of a middle ground in working toward solutions.
Banks said: It doesn t mean there aren t a lot of good cops.
It doesn t mean that law enforcement doesn t serve communities through.
It means that changes have to be made, talks need to be stopped, and action needs to take place.
You can watch Houck derail the segment below:Featured image is a screenshot