Two days ago, Cher, a leftist agitator, and Trump-hater extraordinaire told followers of her Twitter account that they MUST take a DREAMER into their home and protect them .
The has been entertainer took it one step further and told her followers that she was Ready 2 Do This and that Others in MY BUSINESS WILL DO THE SAME!!
She ended her tweet with the word SANCTUARY , indicating that she and the people employed by her would be offering aid and comfort to illegal alien strangers.Those Who Can Must Take a DREAMER In2 Their Home & Protect Them I m Ready 2 Do This & Others in MY BUSINESS WILL DO THE SAME SANCTUARY Cher (@cher) September 5, 2017The one thing Cher neglected to do was to provide and address or a map to her residence.
How in the world does she expect 800,000 ILLEGAL ALIENS to find their new home without an address?Well, thanks to the kindness and generosity of a conservative Twitter user and Trump supporter extraordinaire, illegal aliens who are looking for SANCTUARY can now find it in Cher s massive mansion on the ocean.
What a lucky break!DREAMERS : 27423 Pacific Coast Hwy, Malibu Ca.
Not a Joke, You Are Welcome Yours truly, Cher pic.twitter.com/pSeRD0aKgm brooks brown (@bbusa617) September 6, 2017And to think all they needed to do was illegally cross our borders, and without even lifting a finger, they ll be living in the lap of luxury in Cher s mansion on the coast of California in Malibu, where the 1% who advocate for the little guy live.
According to this report from Zillow, Cher had her 13,000 sq.
ft. home listed with Hilton & Hyland for a mere $45 million in 2010, at which time it did not sell.
The home has 7 bedrooms and 9 bathrooms.
She clearly has enough room for hundreds of illegal aliens.From Zillow:Last August, we reported that Cher s Malibu home was up for sale for $45 million.
The place didn t sell and according to the LA Times, Cher withdrew the listing in May, spending the past few months re-doing the interior.Well, it looks like Cher is satisfied with the re-do; her home at 25142 Pacific Coast Highway, Malibu, CA is back on the market this time for $41 million.
So, in three months time, Cher s house comes with a new interior and a price whack of $4 million.
Anyone in the market for a 13,000+ sq ft home with 7 bedrooms, 9 bathrooms, a theater and a gym that sits on a 1.7 acre-Malibu bluff with a tennis court, an infinity pool and a guesthouse?It is being listed by Hilton & Hyland.In the meantime, Cher had better luck on the Big Island of Hawaii, selling her home in an auction on Jan. 18, 2010, for $8.72 million.