Of course, our Secretary of State has everything under control.
It is being reported, that John Kerry has already apologized to Iran.
Obama s total avoidance of this issue during his SOTU speech speaks volumes about how these jack-holes handle a military crisis with terror states It almost makes one wonder if this was Obama s idea?
Congress has been standing in the way of his progress with Iran for some time now (even some in his own party).
And we all know by now, there is really nothing Barack Obama will stop at to get his way Iran s army chief said on Wednesday the seizure of two U.S. navy boats and their 10 sailors should be a lesson to members the U.S. Congress trying to impose new sanctions on Tehran.
This incident in the Persian Gulf, which probably will not be the American forces last mistake in the region, should be a lesson to troublemakers in the U.S. Congress, Major General Hassan Firouzabadi, head of Iran s armed forces, was quoted as saying by Tasnim news agency.
Via: Yahoo NewsAli Fadavi, commander of the IRGC Navy, said that Tehran had missiles locked on the United States at the time of the incident.
They were in sight of our missiles, Fadavi said in Persian, according to a statement carried by the IRGC s official news outlet.
If this had happened, it would have led to their annihilation.
We had high preparedness with coast-to-sea missiles, rocket-firing fast boats, and various capabilities, he said.
We prevented their additional irresponsible movement with the statements we broadcasted internationally.
It was proven to them that the IRGC Navy has the first and final word.
The U.S. cannot stand up to Iran, according to Fadavi.
The result of that battle is the annihilation and sinking of their battleships, he said.
This is while in those 40 minutes [when the U.S. sailors were apprehended], it was clear that Americans were under psychological pressure, to the extent that they did not behave in a manner expected from a professional and responsible force.
The Obama administration denied that an apology was offered to Iran.
Vice President Joe Biden told CBS that there was no looking for any apology.
When you have a problem with the boat, [do] you apologize the boat had a problem?
No, Biden said.
And there was no looking for any apology.
This was just standard nautical practice.
Iran realized [the sailors] were there in distress and said they would release them, and released them like ordinary nations would do, Biden said.State Department Spokesman John Kirby also issued a denial on Twitter.