Welcome to socialism, where colleges, universities and our government work hand-in-hand to level the playing field.
It all starts by punishing the white middle and upper class legal citizens of America, who had the audacity to be born white, work hard and follow the rule of law in America Harvard University raked in an astounding $608 MILLION in federal funding in 2014.Harvard Medical School has a 5% acceptance rate.From Harvard Med School website:Student Profile:Harvard Medical School affirms that medical education is enhanced by diversity among the student body, and has one of the most diverse medical school enrollments in the country.
17% of the student body comes from groups underrepresented in medicine, and another 35% from other minority groups.
Students hail from 45 U.S. states, many foreign countries, and over 100 different undergraduate institutions.Harvard s Medical School website only shows only partial scholarships are available for students from lower income families.
Perhaps they make exceptions for lawbreakers?!
An illegal alien has won a full-ride scholarship to Harvard Medical School, highlighting the growing inflow of migrants into the white-collar professions.Blanca Morales of Santa Ana, California was the valedictorian of Santa Ana High School and graduated with honors from University of California Irvine.
Now ABC 7 news has reported that Harvard has offered her a slot plus tuition costs even though she is an illegal alien who was brought into the country at the age of five.Tuition and fees for Harvard Medical School come to over $62,000 for the 2016-17 school year.Morales s gain was eased by President Barack Obama s 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive action, which provided her with a form of legal status, plus a work permit.
She is the first Health Scholar DACA student to be admitted to Medical School, reads a portion of a post on the Health Scholars Program Facebook page.She s being touted as success story for the Democrats support of illegal immigration.But Morales gain marks a larger trend namely, the increasing inflow of white-collar immigrants, legal and otherwise, seeking jobs also sought by hard-pressed American professionals.Since the 1990s, blue-collar Americans have seen their wages and opportunities reduced by blue-collar immigrants.But American professionals are also losing a wide variety of jobs to a resident population of roughly 1 million white-collar foreign guest-workers.The California and New York state legislatures have allowed professional licensing boards to provide professional licenses to illegals so they can compete for white-collar jobs.
Illegal immigrant Cesar Vargas lawyers convinced a New York appeals court in June of 2015 to grant him the authority to practice law.
A California court made a similar decision in 2014.Lawyers have also found a way to convert Obama s 2012 DACA mini-amnesty for roughly 800,000 younger illegals status into permanent residency.DACA recipients ask the Department of Homeland Security for permission to leave the country and then return under the legal status of advanced parole.
That is a benefit that is supposed to only be granted for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit.
The case is detailed in a letter from two U.S.
Senators to Department of Homeland Security Sec.
Jeh Johnson.Several universities are organizing so-called study abroad trips with white-collar illegal alien students so they can obtain advanced parole to let them continue on the path to legalization, according to the letter from Sens.
Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Mike Lee (R-UT).United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) officials have been overwhelmed with DACA applications, processing near 7 million in fiscal year 2014 alone.
Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL) has pointed out that those seeking to come to the United States legally face greater obstacles in the visa process than those who have come illegally.Favoritism towards illegals disadvantages the people who legally migrate into the United States.
Self-described legal immigrant and community volunteer Francisco Rivera of Los Angeles, California told Breitbart News last August:People need to understand that not every immigrant supports immigration reform [for illegals] and I do not approve of it.
You don t cut in front of people in line and expect not to pay the consequences.
That s why we have rules and laws, not just in this country, but many countries.
You need to get in line.
Via: Breitbart News