During an interview on ABC s This Week, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump was questioned by the show s host, George Stephanopoulos, about Russia s involvement with Crimea.
Trump s answer is so completely ignorant that it definitively proves that Trump has a childlike understanding of current foreign affairs.While being questioned about Vladamir Putin and the GOP s stance regarding Ukraine, Trump insisted that Putin is not moving into Crimea despite the fact that Putin had already moved into Crimea in 2014.
He s not going into Ukraine, OK, just so you understand.
He s not going to go into Ukraine, all right?
You can mark it down.
You can put it down.
You can take it anywhere you want, Trump said.
Well, he s already there, isn t he?
Stephanopoulos responded.Trump said: OK well, he s there in a certain way.
But I m not there.
You have Obama there.
And frankly, that whole part of the world is a mess under Obama with all the strength that you re talking about and all of the power of NATO and all of this.
In the meantime, he s going away.
He takes Crimea.
Trump then seemed to imply that Russia had a greater claim to the Crimean than the Ukraine.
I m going to take a look at it, Trump said.
But you know, the people of Crimea, from what I ve heard, would rather be with Russia than where they were.
And you have to look at that, also just so you understand, that was done under Obama s administration.
Trump went on to say: And as far as the Ukraine is concerned, it s a mess.
And that s under the Obama s administration with his strong ties to NATO.
So with all of these strong ties to NATO, Ukraine is a mess.
Crimea has been taken.
Don t blame Donald Trump for that.
Trump, at no point during the line of questioning Stephanopoulos gave him regarding the Ukraine, seemed to know what he was talking about.
He appears to have no knowledge of one of the biggest events to happen so far in the 21st century.You can watch the relevant part of the interview below..@realDonaldTrump to @ThisWeekABC: Putin's "not gonna go into Ukraine, all right?
You can mark it down."
#ThisWeek https://t.co/C2PQQYg1c9 ABC News (@ABC) July 31, 2016Featured image via video screen capture