President Trump announced he d be playing golf quickly with Jupiter Island resident Tiger Woods and PGA star Dustin Johnson .A lucky Instagram user got some great photos and video:WHAT A TREAT THE PRESIDENT AND GOLF GREATS!An Instagram user spotted the president at Trump National Golf Course on Friday morning with Tiger Woods and Dustin Johnson: Just your average morning!
Excited my kids were able to see our President and the others were just a bonus, user hwalks wrote in her Instagram post.
She posted pictures and a video of Trump, Woods, and Johnson on the golf course making their rounds.
Just your average morning!!
Excited my kids were able to see our President and the others were a bonus!
#Tigerwoods #dustinjohnson #bradfaxon #donaldtrump #presidenttrumpA post shared by Always_7 (@hwalks) on Nov 24, 2017 at 6:53am PSTDR ERIC KAPLAN POSTED:The President with Dustin Johnson, Tiger Woods , Brad Faron, at Trump Jupiter, a great Potus & host pic.twitter.com/MJ3Hr4DNj5 Dr. Eric Kaplan (@drekaplan) November 24, 2017GOLF.COM PICKED UP THE VIDEO AND PICTURES: President Trump greets his playing partners Tiger Woods, Dustin Johnson and Brad Faxon at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter.
What do you think they were talking about on the range?A post shared by Golf Magazine (@golf_com) on Nov 24, 2017 at 8:48am PSTYou will not read this in media, but Trump is such a good host to media, food galore gave the media VIP private room pic.twitter.com/8WrJZn2XgM Dr. Eric Kaplan (@drekaplan) November 24, 2017AFTER GOLF BACK TO BUSINESSPresident Trump left the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter around 1:45 p.m., and spoke with the president of Egypt over the horrific terror attack at a mosque on Friday morning.Trump tweeted that he will discuss the tragic terrorist attack , and added that we have to get tougher and smarter and need the wall, need the ban.
Trump and Woods played golf last December at Trump International while Trump was president-elect.
Since becoming president, Trump s golf partners have included Washington Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins, future NFL Hall of Famer Peyton Manning and professional golfers Ernie Els and Rory McIlroy.
Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky and Republican Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee have also joined Trump on the links.