Two African-American women who went for what they hoped would be a fun night out at a karaoke bar in Fresno ended up in a scene from a 1980 s after school special about racism.
The women had ordered some drinks already and were waiting to sing Waterfalls by TLC when the bartenders began treating them like they were the only two black people in a bar full of racists.As it turned out, they were the only two black women in a bar full of racists.
According to the women, a bartender told them they couldn t sing karaoke unless they ordered drinks, which they had already done.
Another rather large bartender got right in their faces and screamed buy drinks at them.
Ultimately the women were asked to leave.The bar, which is described as a dive on Facebook, unfortunately bit off more than it could chew as the two women turned out to be lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union.
Abre Conner and Novella Coleman, the two women treated so horribly, wrote an article on the ACLU blog describing their experience:Let s recap.
Four white employees at a bar in Fresno called the police to kick out two Black women (who happen to be ACLU attorneys) and who appeared to be the only Black people there.These kinds of signs have been illegal in California since the Unruh Civil Rights Act in 1959 and nationally since a 1964 U.S. Supreme Court ruling outlawed segregation.When the police arrived, several customers explained to the officers that the bar staff were enforcing the rule against us only.
Some told the police that a one drink rule did not exist.
Others even tried to buy us drinks.
But the bartenders wouldn t let them.
And still, the police forced us two Black women in the bar to leave.
Police departments are supposed to enforce criminal laws and threats to public safety, not enforce personal biases.The bartender and police claimed to be exercising the business supposed right to refuse service.
This sounds too much like when the country still had colored sections and racially segregated water fountains.
But this happened in March 2016.Oh those poor, dumb racists.
By now they have to be aware that they messed with the wrong people.
Ignorance is bliss until it turns into a giant bigoted snake and bites you in the ass.Featured image from Twitter