The announcement that Donald Trump s problematic, misogynistic campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was fired from the Republican presidential candidate s campaign was a somewhat satisfying one, however it was soon replaced with bewilderment when it was announced that CNN had picked Lewandowski up.Mere days of being thrown out of the Trump campaign, CNN offered Lewandowski a job where he is rumored to be paid as much as $500,000 as a political commentator for the network.
The network s move raised eyebrows especially considering the fact that Lewandowski as actually forbidden to criticize Trump thanks to a handy contract Trump makes all of his minions sign.On Thursday evening, Lewandowski had his very first paid appearance and it went exactly how you might expect it would awful.
On Erin Burnett s OutFront show, Lewandowski flat-out told viewers that he would not be criticizing Trump, yet in the same breath promising to tell it like it is.
Using the same vague response tactics he likely learned from Trump himself, Lewandowski dodged questions about his loyalty to Trump and said: I am a guy who calls balls and strikes, I am going to tell it like it is.
I ll tell you exactly like it is, whether you like it or not.
I m a straightforward person.
That s not going to change.
If something is wrong, I ll tell people it s wrong.
If something is right, I m going to tell people it s right.
Lewandowski s appearance was basically ten minutes of sucking up to The Donald, painting the picture that Trump is the only person who is going to save this country, for my children and hopefully their children someday even amongst claims that the Trump campaign was broke.You can see this train wreck unfold for yourself:Basically, Lewandowski is treating his new role as another opportunity to be a spokesperson for Trump, even after the campaign cut ties with him.
This interview left viewers in shock most notably New York University journalism professor Jay Rosen, who had the perfect reaction:TwitterCNN s decision to employ Lewandowski is baffling, considering that the network has recently spent a considerable amount of time pointing out Trump s lies.
Giving paid airtime to someone who is obligated to say nice things about a horrible presidential candidate seems to really contradict the dent CNN was trying to make in the Trump campaign.Featured image is a screenshot