Not a day goes by when a prominent figure on the Right doesn t remind us that good guys with guns basically anyone carrying a firearm at any given moment will act as our saviors whenever a bad guy threatens.
These glorious figures, Sent from God herself, act as paladins of justice, dispensing it in the form of hot pieces of lead at a speed of 2,500 feet per second.
Unfortunately, at a moment s notice, someone thought to be a good guy could easily reveal himself to be anything but that.Police in Murray, Utah were called after a McDonald s drive-thru customer pulled a gun out and threatened to shoot employees.
The unidentified man can be seen on video arguing with an employee.
At first, a white Subaru Outback can be seen pulling away, but the vehicle stops about 40 feet from the window.
Three men exit the car and the driver of the vehicle walks back to the window, pointing his gun inside.
I don t need this, the gunman yelled, apparently failing to realize that he probably didn t need to bring a Second Amendment Solution to an argument over food.Fortunately, one of his friends pulls him away before he has a chance to open fire.
It makes you think, if he was going to shoot one person, how do we know he wasn t going to jump through and do the rest, employee Michela Spikes told FOX13.
I ve got a 15-month-old son I got to think about.
Watching the video, she remarked that it looks like he was actually serious about to do something right before the man in the gray-hooded sweatshirt pulls the angry ammosexual away from the confrontation.It s nice to think that the average human is responsible enough to carry around a weapon that can end numerous lives in seconds.
Unfortunately, all too often guns are used to resolve minor conflicts, to chase down shoplifters, end abortion forever, solve disputes over roadkill, express displeasure at getting stuck behind a snow plow during a blizzard, or check who s downstairs.
Everyone wants to think of themselves as a good guy.
In fact, in many situations, the bad guy still views himself as the opposite.
Think about it: the average man can t be trusted to put the toilet seat down reliably, and we re trusting him to carry around something that gives him the power to decide life or death?
[Author s Note: If you accept this as a scientific argument, you re an idiot.
]A study published in the American Journal of Public Health notes that for each percentage point increase in gun ownership, the firearm homicide rate increased by 0.9%.
Researchers could not determine causation, but found that states with higher rates of gun ownership had disproportionately large numbers of deaths from firearm-related homicides.
Of course, it s also important to consider that the presence of a gun in the first place increases the likelihood of this sort of incident.
Guns not only permit violence, they can stimulate it as well, Leonard Berkowitz, Emeritus Professor of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, said after conducting a 1967 study on the effect of weapons on aggression.
The finger pulls the trigger, but the trigger may also be pulling the finger.
Psychology Today notes:In 1967, Leonard Berkowitz and Anthony LePage conducted a fascinating study.
First, participants were angered by a person pretending to be another participant (called a confederate).
Next, participants were seated at a table that had a shotgun and a revolver on it or, in the control condition, badminton racquets and shuttlecocks.
The items on the table were described as part of another experiment that the researcher had supposedly forgotten to put away.
The participant was supposed to decide what level of electric shock to deliver to the confederate who had angered them, and the electric shocks were used to measure aggression.
The experimenter told participants to ignore the items on the table, but apparently they could not.
Participants who saw the guns were more aggressive than were participants who saw the sports items.
This effect was dubbed the weapons effect.
Fortunately a good guy without a gun stepped in and prevented his friend from doing real harm.Watch a report on the incident below:Featured image via screengrab