If Donald Trump thought he was going to get away with calling the pastor of the black church he visited in Flint, Michigan a nervous mess, he was dead wrong.
Pastor Faith Green-Timmons is a strong woman and rock in her community.
She didn t let Trump get away with trying to use her church as a platform to attack Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, and, as he always done when he feels embarrassed or attacked, Trump went on Fox News and trashed Pastor Green-Timmons.
That isn t all, either Trump flat-out lied about what happened while he was at the church and how his visit was received.Well, this pastor was the wrong one for Trump to decide to start another one of his personal feuds with.
Refusing to sink to Trump s pattern of low-road insults when there is any sort of conflict whatsoever, Pastor Green-Timmons had this to say regarding Trump s remarks and her interruption of his statements in her church: They had plans to make it a little more than they originally said, and I said, No, you re going to stick to the original plan.
And so when he asked to come in to make a statement and the statement began to go beyond what he originally said, I asked him to stick to what he said.
You came here to welcome our workers and thank them for what they have done and that s what he stuck to.
So, in other words, Trump wanted to do things his way, and he got shut down by a strong black lady pastor and he can t stand it.
Pastor Green-Timmons continued: When I heard from the Trump camp that they wanted to come by and see that we give out water, we give out foods that help mitigate lead and asked if he could come all are welcome.
It s a public event.
Then, Pastor Green-Timmons turned her attentions to some of Trump s more bigoted and insulting statements regarding African-Americans and others.
Still, despite the horrible things Trump has said, this lady continued to show class: I wanted him to see the best of Flint in the sense that we re an educated congregation.
Some of the statements that I ve heard him make about African-Americans, Mexicans and others were degrading.
I wanted him to see intelligent people, loving people, caring people, who have done well with the resources that they had.
Exactly.
Trump speaks about minority communities in some of the most bigoted, ignorant, and insulting language imaginable, and this pastor just wanted to give him a chance to see some educated, thriving black people who are not out joining gangs and getting shot on every street corner.
The thing is, though, Trump will continue to hold on to his racist opinions, for he is incapable of changing them.
It s too bad this pastor wasted her wisdom, time, and space on such a disgraceful person.Watch Pastor Green-Timmons speak below:Flint Pastor Rev.
Faith Green Timmons explains why she interrupted @realDonaldTrump speech #TrumpInFlint pic.twitter.com/jtfqBwb00g Cameron Ridle (@CameronRidle) September 14, 2016Featured image via video screen capture