The list of establishment Republicans who are refusing to support Donald Trump as the 2016 presidential nominee just keeps on growing.
The latest is a former GOP senator from New Hampshire, Gordon Humphrey.
Sen. Humphrey says that he will not be getting behind the billionaire for the presidency for one simple reason: he believes the man is a sociopath.
When asked about supporting Trump during efforts to get the party to unite behind the presumptive nominee, Humphrey said: Unequivocally, I am not supporting Donald Trump.
I think he s a sociopath.
Now, these are strong words coming from within the GOP, but they are also most likely correct.
Humphrey isn t the only one in the anti-Trump camp, either.
Paul Ryan has yet to get behind Trump, and he is currently the highest ranking Republican in Congress.
Further, GOP consultant Michael Biundo said the following via Twitter: By not supporting Trump, I am supporting our country.
These statements are not, of course, stopping Trump s people from trying to get GOPers to get behind the business mogul s plans to become America s facsist dictator president.
Trump has a chairman in New Hampshire, Steve Stepanek, who is urging people to get behind his man.
He says: I am focused on bringing the party together.
I m not going to be asking for any Republican s resignation at this point in time.
I m asking Republicans to unite behind Donald Trump and the entire Republican ticket here in the state of New Hampshire.
The thing is, though, Trump is the most divisive force that the GOP has seen in many years, possibly ever.
He is the same for the country.
His violent rhetoric, unhinged supporters, and irrational, mean-spirited behavior have made all sane people run as far away from this goon as possible, regardless of political persuasion.
It doesn t matter at this point who you are if you have one iota of decency or sense, you don t go anywhere near Donald Trump, and you work to stop his takeover of this great nation, no matter what it takes.Good going, Donald.
You are literally destroying the Republican Party before our very eyes.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images