Donald Trump and his and the conservative media have been pushing a conspiracy theory that Bernie Sanders and his supporters are responsible for shutting down his rally in Chicago Friday.During a segment on CNN s State of the Union, Sanders fired back at Trump for some of the absurd claims the Republican primary front-runner has made.
For a start, we should take Mr. Trump s words with a grain of salt, Sanders told the show s host, Jake Tapper.
Because I think almost everybody knows, this man cannot stop lying about anything.
To call me a communist is a lie.
To talk about our organization, our campaign, disrupting his meeting is a lie.
As I have previously pointed out, Trump decided to cancel his rally in Chicago.
It was an event open to the public.
The public showed up and Trump could not handle that.
As Sanders notes, Trump s Republican primary rivals have even pointed out that Trump got what he was asking for.
Even his Republican colleagues make this point, Sanders went on to say.
His language, his intonations, when you talk about carrying people out in stretchers, you see at his rallies people sucker-punched, folks kick people when they re down.
This is a man who keeps implying violence, and then you end up getting what you see.
Sanders is drawing on a comment made by Marco Rubio, who said: I know people like it that Donald Trump says whatever he wants and whatever they feel like saying.
Presidents cannot say anything they want.
Presidents have to understand that their words have consequences, often life and death consequences, for real people in the real world.
Then there is the fact that Trump has frequently encouraged his followers to inflict violence against those who protest his events.
With the media focused on Chicago last Friday, many people didn t see the chaos Trump s supporters unleashed in St Louis earlier that day.
I think that he, in fact, has got to tell his supporters that in the United States of America we don t go beating up people, that people have a right to peacefully protest, and I hope that becomes the tone of his campaign.
You can watch the interview below in full.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hwe5R3VsQYMFeatured image via video screen capture