Donald Trump is a serial liar and that probably explains his dislike for fact-checkers.
Donald has viciously targeted the media and his supporters respond by frequently referring to reporters as the enemy.
While giving a speech at an airport in Sanford, Florida, Trump went after fact-checkers.
These fact-checkers, they ll check facts with me and I m like, like, 99-per-cent right, and they ll say, And therefore he lied, Trump said.
Oh boy, these people are bad.
What a group of people we have.
What a group of dishonest scum we have, I m telling you.
He literally called fact-checkers scum.
Daniel Dale, a Washington correspondent for the Toronto Star, fact checks Donald and the paper produces a list almost daily of Trump s lies.Dale noted on Twitter that Trump said 35 false things yesterday.
Donald Trump said 35 false things yesterday.
#TrumpCheck pic.twitter.com/EwfYFEDFx9 Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2016His following tweet reads, Donald Trump s 35 false claims on Tuesday follows his record-tying 37 false claims on Monday.
Donald Trump s 35 false claims on Tuesday follows his record-tying 37 false claims on Monday.
Daniel Dale (@ddale8) October 26, 2016The day before Trump s speech in which he blasted fact-checkers, the Star counted 37 false claims from the GOP presidential nominee.That tied the record he set at the third and final presidential debate, which he claimed every poll showed him winning, which was, of course, not at all true.The paper admits that there are grains of truth in some of his false claims but most are flat wrong.
The list includes Trump s regurgitated rhetoric on Hillary Clinton s emails.
Trump claimed the deletion of emails was such an expensive process, however, a free software program was used.He said nobody has asked her running mate, Tim Kaine, about comments her aides made about Catholics in hacked emails, though Kaine has been asked on national television.
He bragged, for at least the second time, that he had won 42 states in the Republican primary, though it was 36 states.Watch: There is a massive imbalance in the frequency of dishonesty.
@DDale8 says Trump lies a lot more than Clinton https://t.co/Kp6KvPNtmO Reliable Sources (@ReliableSources) October 30, 2016The paper fact-checked the three presidential debates.
Trump said 104 false things.
In contrast, Clinton said 13.
You have a candidate who is frequently saying 20 false things in a day, up to 37 on some days, Dale said.At the rally in Florida, Trump called journalists a bunch of phony low-lifes.
Trump s assault on the First Amendment has been vicious.
In August, Trump pointed at MSNBC s Katy Tur.
What a lie.
Katy Tur.
What a lie it was, Trump said, pointing at her from the stage.
Third.
Rate.
Reporter.
Remember that.
After that, the Secret Service had to escort her to her car.
And now it s fact-checkers who are being targeted.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty.