Donald Trump has to be the most corrupt president America has ever seen.
After his infamous firing of FBI Director James Comey over the investigation into his campaign s ties to Russia, Trump was reportedly infuriated that his racist elf of an Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, recused himself from all things related to Russia.
Then, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein saw fit to appoint former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a Special Counsel to get to the bottom of the Russia matter.
Now, it seems that Mueller, who enjoys broad bipartisan support and has an impeccable reputation in Washington, is now in Trump s crosshairs.
In fact, it is now being reported that Trump wanted to fire Mueller, and was only stopped by his own White House staff, because any thinking person knows that this would be a political and potentially legal- disaster.The rumors of Trump s intention to fire Mueller were first fueled by an interview that Newsmax CEO and close Trump confidante Christopher Ruddy gave to PBS Newshour.
In that interview, Ruddy said of what he knew of Trump s paranoid thinking on the matter: I think he s considering perhaps terminating the special counsel.
I think he s weighing that option.
Well, Trump had better get that option out of his head; after all, even the GOP sycophants in Congress are saying that this is a bridge too far, and that Trump needs to leave Special Counsel Mueller alone and let him do his investigation.
Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), who is the Ranking Member on the House Intelligence Committee has already told Trump that going after Mueller would be a waste of time, because Congress would intervene.If President fired Bob Mueller, Congress would immediately re-establish independent counsel and appoint Bob Mueller.
Don't waste our time.
Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) June 12, 2017Trump is acting like Richard Nixon did toward the end of Watergate.
If he starts trying to treat Robert Mueller like Richard Nixon treated Archibald Cox, it will not end well for him.Let s see you fire Robert Mueller, you orange buffoon.
You ll die in jail if the people who actually care about this nation have anything to say about it.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images