Boy, wasn t Wednesday an embarrassing day for Donald Trump?
Not only did the low-energy GOP candidate almost sleep through his joint press conference with our neighbor to the south s president, but he managed to get caught lying about wall negotiations and, of course, he s been repeatedly hammered by President Enrique Pena Nieto as he continues to lie about their encounter.All in all, Trump s decision to stop by for a photo-op in Mexico was a humiliating experience both for him and America as a whole but more for him, as his temper tantrum about brown people that he thought was a policy speech managed to lose him numerous members of his National Hispanic Advisory Council.
The amount of fail involved in this operation is almost enough to make one s hair stand on end.The internet has noticed something else that might be a little more embarrassing for him than the rest of his failure of a trip, based on his history of going insane over his hair.
He forgot to take the bobby pins out of the wet albino muskrat that functions as his hair before stepping onstage.Here, have a closer look: O.K., what I do is wash it with Head & Shoulders, Trump once told Rolling Stone when asked if he has a combover.
I don t dry it, though.
I let it dry by itself.
It takes about an hour.
Then I read the papers and things.
OK, so I ve done all that.
I then comb my hair.
Yes, I do use a comb.
Do I comb it forward?
No, I don t comb it forward, Trump continued.
I actually don t have a bad hairline.
When you think about it, it s not bad.
I mean, I get a lot of credit for comb-overs.
But it s not really a comb-over.
It s sort of a little bit forward and back.
I ve combed it the same way for years.
Same thing, every time.
One thing that was missing from that explanation was the existence of bobby pins.If Trump can t be honest with us about his hair routine, how can we know he s telling the truth when he says brown people are coming to kill and rape us, or his tax returns are unimportant, or that he has the very best people who will do the greatest things?You can see it in this video, if you hate yourself: trump bobby pins by DailyPoliticsFeatured image via screengrab