Donald Trump keeps claiming that the election is rigged.
Well, he s right, only it s the Republicans who are doing the rigging.Wisconsin has one of the most restrictive voting laws in the nation, which Republicans have bragged would hurt Hillary Clinton in the state.The courts have ordered clerks to set up more polling locations to cut down on voting time and the long lines that plagued the state primary.
But Green Bay city clerk Kris Teske, who was appointed by Republican mayor and Scott Walker stooge, Jim Schmitt, tried to get around both the court order and a request from Democratic State Rep. Eric Genrich to put a polling location near the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay to make it easier for students to vote.Teske wrote an email to the Wisconsin Ethics Commission in an effort to get out of doing so, arguing that not only would it cost money and require resources, but it would help Democrats in the upcoming election on November 8th.
I don t like the idea at all for many reasons: Staffing, ballot security, budget, etc., she began.
I was reading the statutes and read: No site may be designated that affords an advantage to any political party.
UWGB is a polling location for students and residents on Election Day but I feel by asking for this to be the site for early voting is encouraging the students to vote more than benefiting the city as a whole.
I have heard it said that students lean more toward the democrats and he is a democrat.
I have spoken with our Chief of Staff and others at City Hall and they agree that budget wise this isn t going to happen.
I would like to know your thoughts on this.
Do I have an argument about it being more of a benefit to the democrats.
Teske literally just argued for not setting up an additional polling place for students because she thinks they lean more toward voting for Democrats.That s the textbook definition of voter suppression and election rigging.Just imagine if a city clerk decided that churches can t be polling places because religious people lean more toward voting for Republicans.
Or that we can t put polling places in rural areas because rural areas lean Republican.
Republicans would be crying foul and throwing a temper tantrum over it.Kris Teske should be removed from her position immediately if a polling location is not placed where Rep. Genrich requested.
Whether or not more students voting benefits Democrats is beside the point and that shouldn t be the position of a nonpartisan city clerk, Genrich told The Nation.
I don t know what Kris s politics are, but it s really unfortunate to see her echoing the sentiments of Republicans in Wisconsin, who have been making it really difficult for citizens to vote in this state.
We should be working hard to make sure everyone gets to vote in this country.
Anything less should be considered criminal.Featured Image: Ethan Miller via Getty Images