This is one of the most epic smack downs of a gun nut you ll ever see.During Real Time on Friday night, host Bill Maher was joined on his panel by guests Lawrence Wilkerson and Emily Miller to discuss the Orlando mass shooting and the role guns played.
This tragedy was brought to you by guns and religion, Maher said to kick off the discussion.Maher and conservative reporter Emily Miller agreed that only followers of Islam commit acts of terrorism, forgetting mass shootings that were perpetrated by white Christian males such as Dylann Roof, who killed nine black people at a church in Charleston.
Or Timothy McVeigh, who committed the Oklahoma City Bombing in 1995.
He grew up a Roman Catholic and took the Last Rites prior to his execution.
And there are so many other examples that they could literally fill this article and more.
And here s a list of violence against the LGBT community, some of which were committed by anti-gay Christians with guns.But it was Republican retired Army Colonel Lawrence Wilkerson who stole the show when he buried Miller and her gun nut views, much to Maher s amusement.
We need some kind of control on the weapons in this country, Wilkerson said.
We do not need large capacity magazines, semi-automatic weapons in the hands of anybody in this country, other than possibly law enforcement.
Wilkerson admitted that he owns 14 guns at home because he inherited many them from relatives who passed away, but he only uses them for hunting and is very selective about who he sells a gun to if he wants to let one go.Miller immediately volunteered to buy some guns from Wilkerson and he quickly rejected her.
I wouldn t sell them to you, he said.Wilkerson went on to hold Republicans responsible for the shooting to some degree because they have refused to pass a law banning people on the terrorism watch list from buying and owning guns.Miller then attempted to defend guns as a necessary tool for home defense but Wilkerson, who served in the Vietnam War, didn t buy that malarkey either, saying that he doesn t own guns to shoot people and pointing out that we have law enforcement to deal with home invasions.
When Miller attempted to discuss law enforcement response time, Wilkerson shut her down.
I m 71-years-old.
I ve lived in this country for seventy-one years, except for the years I was deployed fighting for this country when I did need my guns, and nobody has ever entered my house and tried to kill me!
After that, Miller was stunned into silence.Here s the video via YouTube.Featured image via screen capture