Across the nation, mainly the South, there have been a number of religious freedom laws popping up.
Now, religious freedom is actually code for freedom to discriminate against gay people as it once was freedom to discriminate against black people not too long ago.The state of Mississippi just passed one of the most discriminatory bills yet, but titled it Religious Liberty Accommodations Act.
Which, is pretty accurate considering the state is trying to accommodate religious bigots and their discrimination.
The bill HB 1523 has yet to be signed by Republican Gov.
Phil Bryant, but knowing his religious liberty history, he ll undoubtedly put pen to paper.Now, the bill itself is pretty damn blunt in its hatred towards the LGBT community.
It states: The Mississippi Legislature finds the following:(a) Leading legal scholars concur that conflicts between same-sex marriage and religious liberty are real and should be addressed through legislation;(b) After the legalization of same-sex marriage, religious adoption and foster care agencies in Massachusetts, Illinois and the District of Columbia were forced to close because of their sincerely held religious beliefs about marriage etc.
etc.
First of all, who are these asshole legal scholars who clearly got their degree at Liberty University or somewhere similar.What is pretty damn interesting is the fact that the bill doesn t only attack the rights of the LGBT community, it also goes after heterosexual couples who aren t married yet.
It stipulates that sex should only be between a man and a woman after marriage.
The sincerely held religious beliefs or moral convictions protected by this act are the belief or conviction that:(a) Marriage is or should be recognized as the union of one man and one woman;(b) Sexual relations are properly reserved to such a marriage; and(c) Male (man) or female (woman) refer to an individual s immutable biological sex as objectively determined by anatomy and genetics at time of birth.
Yikes!
There goes any and all premarital sex.
I wonder how heterosexual people will feel with government entering into their bedrooms.
So much for being anti-big government.
This pretty much takes the cake on an infringement of personal rights all across the board.
Not only does is purposefully discriminate against the LGBT community by taking away equal access, it also infringes upon the freedom of straight people to have sex before marriage.Last time I checked, the Bible isn t the Constitution, but hey .
religious freedom amiright?
!Featured Photo by M. McKeown/Express/Getty Images