In September 2016, Stephen Henderson, the editorial editor of the Detroit Free Press, used the power of his pen to unjustly attack Kid Rock, after liberals feared Rock might actually be serious about running as a Republican contender against the do-nothing Democrat Senator Debbie Stabenow.
As a Michigan resident, I can say with a great level of confidence, that besides Mike Illitch, the now deceased owner of the Red Wings and Detroit Tigers, Kid Rock has done more for the city of Detroit and for the black community than almost anyone in this state.
When the Illitch s asked Detroit legend and philanthropist, Kid Rock to perform for the opening of their much anticipated Little Caesar s Arena, no one could have dreamed that the Detroit Free Press Stephen Henderson would have used his position to push a lie, that Kid Rock, the single father of a black son, and NAACP award recipient is a racist .Here s what Henderson had to say about Kid Rock, the man who has done so much for the city of Detroit:This is a musician who got rich off crass cultural appropriation of black music, who used to wrap his brand in the Confederate flag a symbol inextricably linked to racism, no matter what its defenders say and who has repeatedly issued profane denouncements of the very idea of African Americans pushing back against American inequality.
Just last week, he trashed Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who s jobless right now because he dared challenge the nation s racism with a silent, kneeling protest during the pre-football game singing of the national anthem.
Having Kid Rock open this arena is erecting a sturdy middle finger to Detroiters nothing less.
And the Ilitches, who ve done so much for this city and also taken so much from it, should be the last to embrace that kind of signaling.Here is how Kid Rock responded on his Facebook page:People!
Pay NO attention to the garbage the extreme left is trying to create!
(and by the way, fuck the extreme left and the extreme right!
)They are trying to use the old confederate flag BS, etc.
to stir the pot, when we all know none of this would be going on if I were not thinking of running for office.
Pretty funny how scared I have them all and their only agenda is to try and label people / me racist who do not agree or cower to them!!
No one had a word to say when we sold out the 6 shows at LCA back in January!
My track record in Detroit and Michigan speaks for itself, and I would dare anyone talking trash to put theirs up against mine.
I am also a homeowner and taxpayer in the city of Detroit, so suck on that too!I am the bona fide KING OF DETROIT LOVE and it makes me smile down deep that you haters know that!
Your jealousy is merely a reflection of disgust for your own failures and lack of positive ideas for our city.I am however very disappointed that none of the people, businesses or charities I have so diligently supported in Detroit have had anything to say about all these unfounded attacks from these handful of jackasses and The Detroit Free Press.
So for the unforeseen future I will focus my philanthropy efforts on other organizations besides the ones I have supported in the past.
I would however employ that NAN go ahead and make up these losses since they claim to be so good for Detroit and do not want me opening the arena and generating tons of jobs and tax dollars for the city and people I LOVE IDIOTS!
.. (Has Al Sharpton even paid his back taxes yet?
)Today, the race-obsessed Stephen Henderson, got some very bad news AP The Detroit Free Press fired Stephen Henderson, its managing director of opinion and commentary, after finding what it called credible allegations of inappropriate behavior with female colleagues, the newspaper announced Friday.Free Press Editor and Vice President Peter Bhatia announced Henderson s termination in a story that said the allegations go back several years.
Gannett Co. Inc., the newspaper s parent company, says Henderson s behavior has been inconsistent with company values and standards.
Henderson said in a statement to The Detroit News and Crain s Detroit Business that he is stunned.
I dedicated 18 years to this newspaper over three decades, all of it performing at the highest level, Henderson said.
I may have more to say on this later, but for now there is much other work to be done here in the city of Detroit.
Stephen is a magnificent journalist and a treasured colleague who has done so much for Detroit, Bhatia said.
He added there were no accusations of sexual assault, but said the incidents involving inappropriate behavior and comments directed at Free Press employees ran counter to company policies.Less than 2 months ago, Henderson appeared on Meet The Press and called America a racist nation with a racist history:Rich Lowry of the National Review appeared with Stephen Henderson on Meet The Press to discuss Colin Kaepernick and other NFL players who disrespect the flag as a way to support Black Lives Matter.
Henderson argued, Some of the words in the national anthem are racist.
Henderson argued that it was appropriate to show disrespect for the American flag because he thinks America is a country whose history is racist.
Henderson told the panel, I think this is a country whose history is racist, whose history is steeped in white supremacy, and the anthem reflects that in its very words (inaudible) .
Lowry responded to Henderson by saying, It s also a nation with very important ideals that have worn down those injustices over time and created a more just society.
And people have died under that flag for those ideals.
Watch: