We know that the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill was one of the worst manmade disasters in history.
Scientists are still desperately studying the behavior of marine life in the region hoping to find clues as to better understand just how much harm BP caused the ecosystem in 2010.That s why when a video showing a pod of orcas swimming very close to the mouth of the Mississippi River off the coast of Louisiana, scientists started paying attention.
Whales have never before been seen swimming in the area.
While orcas do enjoy coastal waters, they prefer to stay in colder waters.The video was captured by a fishing group, who sent the footage to local news station WWLTV.
Dr, Moby Solangi, who is the President and Executive Director of The Institute for Marine Mammal Studies, told WWLTV: This is really an amazing story that you have told.
We have not heard about this before.
Dr. Solangi then on went to say that, That is concerning, you know.
It s when these animals start showing signs of change, we need to pay attention.
In the video, which is embedded below, it is mentioned that there was another recent example of large marine life exhibiting bizarre behavior.
Just two months ago, a group of young pygmy whales was found beached in Mississippi, hundreds of miles away from their normal habitat.When asked about what role the BP spill may have had in these incidents, Dr. Solangi responded, saying: That certainly disrupted their habitat.
There s no question.
These are top predators and if they re moving somewhere, something may be going on.
What s even more disturbing about this is the revelation that BP is facing very few consequences for the marine armageddon they unleashed.
In April, it was reported that BP will have to pay $20 billion dollars in a settlement for the disaster.
Though, since we currently live in an age where corporations can get away with just about anything, BP is able to deduct more than $15 billion dollars of the settlement expenses in tax breaks.Scientists are hard at work trying to figure out what exactly is going on in the Gulf region.
This bizarre whale migration may just be the thing that points scientists in the right direction.You can watch the video below.Featured image from video screenshot Featured image from video screenshot