Have you ever really taken a close look at Donald Trump?
You can tell by looking at him that he s a fraud.
He never looks genuine; his speech doesn t flow.
He uses a fourth-grade mentality and he panders to idiots.
There s nothing about the man that points to him actually being this staunch conservative Republican, and now we have proof.
The Associated Press reports that Trump s own Republican National Convention Czar was caught in a behind-closed-doors meeting telling party officials that everything about Trump the party hates is an act.Trump s newly hired senior aide, Paul Manafort, informed Republican National Committee members that Trump has a private persona and an onstage persona, and that the onstage Trump will be mellowing out to bring electoral results should he be the party s nominee.
Manafort said in the private briefing: When he s out on the stage, when he s talking about the kinds of things he s talking about on the stump, he s projecting an image that s for that purpose.You ll start to see more depth of the person, the real person.
You ll see a real different guy.He gets it.
The part that he s been playing is evolving into the part that now you ve been expecting, but he wasn t ready for, because he had first to complete the first phase.
The negatives will come down.
The image is going to change.
In other words, the guy people are looking to because they don t want another crooked politician is playing the political game at a higher level on the Republican side than all of the establishment candidates he s run out of town.
What exactly can we expect from Trump as time goes forward?
Well, if his past is any indication, he should be whatever suits his mood at the time.
It wouldn t be surprising to see him come out in favor of more liberal ideals.
He has already stood up for the LGBT community on the transgender bathroom issue.
It s obvious he couldn t care less about gay marriage.
If he thinks he s gonna reap the same ignorant rewards from the general public on immigration and hate expansion, he s got another think coming.Trump s only play should he win would be to run his campaign like a Democrat.
It s not like he doesn t have practice.Featured image by John Lamparski/Getty Images