Just like Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway did on Fox News Sunday, CNN pundit and Trump mouthpiece Kayleigh McEnany went full hypocrite on Tuesday.Earlier this week, Donald Trump named white supremacist hero Steve Bannon as his chief policy strategist, basically guaranteeing that we won t be seeing any legislation that helps minorities in this country.
In fact, we ll probably see some landmark legislation like the Civil Rights Act get rolled back.Make no mistake, Bannon is a racist with ties to white nationalists.
But Kayleigh McEnany not only whined about Bannon being called a racist by fellow panelist Jonathan Tasini, she had the nerve to repeat the call for unity even though Republicans refused to unite behind President Obama when he asked the country to come together in 2008.The discussion began with Van Jones pointing out that if Hillary Clinton picked the editor of a Maoist publication to be her chief strategist Republicans would be throwing a hissy fit.
We ve got to continue to have a serious debate about the direction of our country and that includes talking about who s put in the inner circle of the President of the United States, Jones said.McEnany replied that there is a line between asking a question and labeling someone a racist, which is what Jonathan just did.
Van, as political commentators, we have a duty and an obligation, Van, to correct mistruths and falsehoods.
We have an obligation to correct falsehoods and President Barack Obama stood up there and said it s time to unite and that means dispelling these rumors.
But these are not rumors.
Bannon has been flirting with the alt-right for years and it s no coincidence that white supremacists flocked to Trump s campaign because Bannon was part of it.
White nationalists see Bannon as their meal-ticket to power, which makes him all the more dangerous.Anyway, Tasini was absolutely disgusted by McEnany s defense of Bannon, so he proceeded to bury her.
Bannon is a racist and an anti-Semite, Tasini said.
He s at the head of an alt-right movement that is completely anti-American, frankly.
You should be ashamed of yourself that you re justifying what he s about.
I m very proud of this campaign, McEnany responded.
I know you re proud and that s a disgrace, Tasini said, driving a final stake of humiliation through McEnany s hypocrisy.Here s the video via Vid Me.Again, for eight years conservatives refused to unite behind President Obama and called him every name in the book.
They even called him a secret Muslim who hates America.
I don t remember Republicans working to correct falsehoods and mistruths then.
Yet Trump and his deplorable supporters have the gall to ask for unity now?
F*ck that shit.
#NotMyPresidentFeatured Image: Screenshot