Sean Hannity is giddy and offended that finally, just like his Great Orange Leader, there s a bloody Sean Hannity joke picture out there, and he finally gets to share in the victim outrage.All of Hannity s righteous indignation is over an Onion (yes, the satire site) article with the headline, Hundreds Of Miniature Sean Hannitys Burst From Roger Ailes Corpse.
The picture is what really got under Hannity s thin yet completely abrasive skin.
It should several of him, like in the movie Alien bursting from what looks like a white shirt.Hannity, the man who bled advertisers over a false murder accusation toward Hillary Clinton, was just appalled that his 15 year old daughter would see such a horrible picture.What is wrong with the left that they think these sorts of things are funny?
https://t.co/sAxON5xxmh Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) June 1, 2017Personally, I don t think it s funny, but whatever.
And if the picture really is that offensive, why is Hannity tweeting it?Here he is talking about the picture he doesn t want seen on his show:Hannity is EXTREMELY mad at @TheOnion pic.twitter.com/TLqahE4RRJ Brendan Karet (@bad_takes) June 2, 2017There is one stark difference between this picture and the one earlier in the week by comedian Kathy Griffin.
Hers depicted actual violence.
The Onion picture was graphic, yes.
It was also bloody, but Hannity (all of them) was depicted as alive and well.Still, Hannity didn t want to miss his ride on the victim train.
He likes to play both sides: victim and victimizer.
Just.
Like.
Trump.Now, as you may recall, a few news cycles ago, it was Hannity who was under fire for promoting a false conspiracy theory that Hillary Clinton murdered a Democratic National Committee staffer.
Hannity is also just fine with Ted Nugent s actual death threats toward Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.It looks like Hannity s career will survive, but the right, as they always do, will attempt to take down anyone who is a convenient distraction.
As for The Onion, they re loving the publicity.
I never would have seen the picture if it weren t for Hannity telling me about it, and I assume I m not in the minority.Featured image via Kevin Winter/Getty Images.