Watch as Katy Tur tries to hilariously convince the audience that the press doesn t have any biases: If we have any bias, it s a bias towards the facts .
She then goes on to convince the audience what a horrible human being Donald Trump is, He didn t appeal to their better demons of voters in this country.
He appealed to their most base fears and their most base frustrations and anger and that worked for him.
Watch:During a news conference in July of 2016, NBC News correspondent Katy Tur asked Trump whether he has any qualms about asking a foreign government to hack into a system of anybody s in this country after Trump said he hoped Russia would find more emails from Hillary Clinton or the DNC.
Hey, you know what gives me more pause, that a person in our government, crooked Hillary Clinton here s what gives me more pause, Trump said, as Tur tried to ask follow-ups.
Be quiet, I know you want to, you know, save her.
That a person in our government, Katy, would delete or get rid of 33,000 emails.
That gives me a big problem.
After she gets a subpoena.
She gets subpoenaed, and she gets rid of 33,000 emails.
That gives me a problem.
Now, if Russia or China or any other country has those emails, I mean to be honest with you, I d love to see them.
As Tur asked another question a few minutes later, mentioning Trump s poll numbers, Trump once again mocked her.
Katy just said that, many polls show you are winning.
Are you Katy Tur of NBC?
It s a disguise, he said.This is far from the first time Trump has picked on Tur.
In June, Trump told Fox & Friends that his campaign don t even let her in or let people talk to her because she s not a very good reporter.
In December, Trump called out Tur in the middle of a rally, leading Trump supporters to point at her and boo.
Little Katy, third-rate journalist, Trump said, as he complained about the news media.Watch candidate Trump tell Katy to Be quiet : If you want to know why the press is obsessed with taking down Donald Trump, watch this video:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ymoGq82Mhjw