Ever since Donald Trump was elected by a minority of the population, along with a technicality provided by an outdated system that was put in place to preserve the power of slave owners, it seems like we can t go a week or even a day without someone committing a crime targeting Jews.
Though Trump finally denounced anti-Semitism for the first time on Tuesday, his administration has largely been silent as anti-Semitic hate crimes have been on the rise since we kinda, sorta elected him.Asked last Wednesday about the rise in anti-Semitism that strangely accompanies his presidency, Trump replied that We are, you know, very honored by the victory that we had.
I just want to say that we are very honored by the victory we had 316 Electoral College votes.
We were not supposed to crack 220.
You know that, right?
This sort of response is what is expected, of course, from someone who drained the swamp and put the scum he found at the bottom which includes quite a few actual f*cking Nazis (and other white supremacists) like Steve Bannon, Jeff Sessions, and Stephen Miller in his administration.
Team Trump has even completely failed Jewish people but you know who hasn t?
Muslims.After a historic Jewish cemetery in Missouri was vandalized Monday, Muslims in the area went to work to help their fellow humans out.
More than 100 headstones at the Chesed Shel Emeth Society cemetery in the University City suburb of St. Louis were damaged and overturned following this disgusting act of destruction, which left workers struggling to fix what they could and documenting what needed to be replaced.Scene at Chesed Shel Emeth Jewish Cemetery in U-City.
Crews starting to make repairs to vandalized headstones.
pic.twitter.com/JX0SmpIvVm Chris Regnier (@chrisregniertv) February 21, 2017A crowdfunding campaign started by the Muslim community reached its goal of $20,000 in just three hours, with the amount of money going toward fixing the cemetery still steadily growing.Linda Sarsour of MPower Change says the campaign is inspired by the Prophet Muhammad s love for humanity:While these senseless acts have filled us with sorrow, we reflect on the message of unity, tolerance, and mutual protection found in the Constitution of Medina: an historic social contract between the Medinan Jews and the first Muslim community.
We are also inspired by the example of our Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, who stood up to pay respects for a passing Jewish funeral procession.
When questioned on why he stood for a Jewish funeral, he responded, Is it not a human soul?
[Source: Bukhari].
Through this campaign, we hope to send a united message from the Jewish and Muslim communities that there is no place for this type of hate, desecration, and violence in America, she says.
We pray that this restores a sense of security and peace to the Jewish-American community who has undoubtedly been shaken by this event.
Donald Trump and his supporters may go out of their way to demonize Muslims, but we will never, ever, ever, ever see this sort of humanity displayed by anyone associated with him.Watch a report on this latest anti-Semitic attack below:Featured image via screengrab