Donald Trump is not fit to be president.
Most of the nation knows this.
However, psychiatrists at Yale University actual experts have a warning for the United States Congress and the nation and world at large: Trump is mentally ill, and dangerously so.At a conference at the esteemed university, expressing this professional opinion was seen as a duty by this group of psychiatrists.
They have described Trump as paranoid and delusional, and that their statements were to warn of the dangers of allowing Trump to continue to sit in the Oval Office.
Dr. John Gartner, who spoke during the gathering at the School of Medicine at Yale, declared of Trump: We have an ethical responsibility to warn the public about Donald Trump s dangerous mental illness.
Dr. Gartner is a member of a newly-formed organization of mental health experts called Duty to Warn.
Their sole purpose is to convince as many people as possible that Donald Trump is mentally ill and must be removed from office before he does something truly dangerous to the nation and the world.
Dr. Garten used Trump s ravings about his crowd sizes at his inauguration as just one piece of proof that he is too crazy to lead.
He said of those statements: Worse than just being a liar or a narcissist, in addition he is paranoid, delusional and grandiose thinking and he proved that to the country the first day he was President.
If Donald Trump really believes he had the largest crowd size in history, that s delusional.
Dr. Bandy Lee, who teaches in the psychiatry department at Yale and headed up the conference where these statements were made, said of Trump: As some prominent psychiatrists have noted, [Trump s mental health] is the elephant in the room.
I think the public is really starting to catch on and widely talk about this now.
New York University psychiatrist James Gilligan had an even darker image of Trump to portray to the American people: I ve worked with some of the most dangerous people our society produces, directing mental health programs in prisons.
I ve worked with murderers and rapists.
I can recognize dangerousness from a mile away.
You don t have to be an expert on dangerousness or spend fifty years studying it like I have in order to know how dangerous this man is.
These are people who know what they are talking about.
Sure, they may be violating the so-called Goldwater Rule meaning the unofficial rule that mental health professionals should not diagnose political figures in public but they know what they see, and they must see something that is enough of a threat to the nation and world to speak out.Dr.
Gartner has actually started a petition on the internet specifically for mental health professionals that requests that Congress exercise their Article I powers to get Trump out of the White House.
It says: We, the undersigned mental health professionals (please state your degree), believe in our professional judgment that Donald Trump manifests a serious mental illness that renders him psychologically incapable of competently discharging the duties of President of the United States.
And we respectfully request he be removed from office, according to article 4 of the 25th amendment to the Constitution, which states that the president will be replaced if he is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office .
Hopefully, someone with the sense to listen to these people does something about Trump before it is too late.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images