It would seem that the Democrats talking point, that healthcare is a human right, isn t just a talking point.
The United Nations has taken notice of Republicans efforts to repeal Obamacare without a solid replacement that will guarantee nobody loses their coverage.
The GOP s plans all involve stipulations that could strip coverage from millions, which could violate international laws to which the U.S. is bound.The U.N. s High Commissioner on Human Rights sent a letter to the Trump administration, and asked that it be shared with Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress.
Of course, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, didn t receive it, at least, not through the usual channels.
Oddly enough, neither did Paul Ryan or Mitch McConnell.Apparently, the State Department never saw it either, but an employee at HHS leaked it to Democratic leadership.The letter cites Article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which says: [Countries have] the core obligation to ensure the right of access to health facilities, goods and services on a non-discriminatory basis, especially for vulnerable or marginalized groups.
It also cites Article 5(e) of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, which says: [Countries should] guarantee the right of everyone, including the rights to public health, medical care, social security and social services without regard to race or color.
It s important to note that while we both signed and ratified the latter agreement here.If Obamacare is repealed without a replacement that protects coverage for everyone, the people who stand to lose their insurance, and thus, their access to healthcare, are the poor and the working class.
Racial minorities are more likely to be poor, or a member of the struggling working class.
Rural areas with depressed economies (the places that all voted for Trump) would suffer, too.Since the Trump administration didn t send the letter on as requested, it stands to reason that they don t want Congress to see this (or really, anyone).
Too bad it got out.
At best, this is another PR and political disaster that Trump doesn t need.
At worst, we re in some serious trouble if they don t give up their plans to strip millions of their health insurance.Featured image by Olivier Douliery-Pool via Getty Images