The plot thickens.If you ever needed any more proof that Donald Trump s campaign is in bed with white supremacists look no further than the anti-Hillary meme Trump posted on his Twitter account on Saturday morning.Trump stirred national outrage and was accused of anti-Semitism after posting a meme declaring that Hillary Clinton has made history by being the most corrupt candidate ever complete with a Star of David.Though he posted the meme, Donald Trump isn t the one who created it.
As it turns out, white supremacists are responsible for it.According to Mic: The Image was previously featured on /pol/ an Internet message board for the alt-right, a digital movement of neo-Nazis, anti-Semites, and white supremacists newly emboldened by the success of Trump s rhetoric as early as June 22, over a week before Trump s team tweeted it.
Further research led Mic directly to a Twitter account that regularly tweets violent racist memes commenting on the state of geopolitical politics.
Mic also notes that the file name of the meme on the message board could be a nod to the Neo-Nazi code for HH, or HeilHitler, which the alt-right is fond of hiding in plain sight.
So Trump and his campaign literally tweeted a meme that was created by Nazis and white supremacists.
Those groups must be beaming with pride now after their leader shared their hateful work.
By the time Trump removed the meme and replaced the Star of David with a circle the original meme had been shared 2,000 times.Meanwhile, former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski defended the Republican nominee by calling the outrage over the meme political correctness run amok.
The bottom line is this is political correctness run amok.
If this were to be a star next to Hillary Clinton without the cash behind it, no one would be questioning this, he claimed.
He also argued that it was the same star used by sheriffs.But the fact that the meme was created by neo-Nazis makes it clear that the star shape was meant to attack Jews as much as the meme was an attack on Hillary Clinton.
And either the Trump campaign failed to do any research about where the meme came from or they knew exactly who created it and shared it anyway to appease the white supremacist supporters of his campaign.Featured image via Twitter