How many times in one week can ABC News publish fake Russian collusion stories and still be considered a reliable source of news?
ABC News suspended Brian Ross after he made a false report about Trump directing his NSA Michael Flynn to meet with the Russians during his campaign.
After the Stock Market lost 350 points, ABC News was forced to admit that Trump s discussion about meeting with the Russian Ambassador took place while Flynn was part of Trump s transition team and not when Trump was a candidate.Yesterday, ABC News tweeted a story about Paul Manafort, saying that he was working with a Russian Intelligence-connected official.
They were forced to tweet a correction seveal hours later , stating that the person Manafort met with was not an official but instead, an individual .
Big difference Today, ABC News jumped on the rabid lefitst media bandwagon again today to report that Special Counsel Robert Muller had supbeonaed Deutsche Bank for Trump s financial records.
That story also turned out to be fake news.John Roberts of FOX News reports: A source with knowledge of the investigation tells @FoxNews that there has been no subpoena from Robert Mueller s office sent to Deutsche Bank asking for information on @realDonaldTrump financesA source with knowledge of the investigation tells @FoxNews that there has been no subpoena from Robert Mueller's office sent to Deutsche Bank asking for information on @realDonaldTrump finances John Roberts (@johnrobertsFox) December 5, 2017President Trump s legal team is pushing back against reports that Special Counsel Robert Mueller has called on Deutsche Bank to submit data pertaining to its client relationship with President Trump as part of his investigation into alleged Russian election meddling.
We have confirmed that the news reports that the special counsel had subpoenaed financial records relating to the president are false, said Jay Sekulow, a member of Trump s legal team.
No subpoena has been issued or received.
We have confirmed this with the bank and other sources.
Bloomberg, citing an unnamed source, reported that Mueller is seeking information on the German lender and its relationship with Trump and his family.
Trump reportedly owes the bank $300 million.
Fox News