President Barack Obama gave an amazing farewell address last night as he captivated Americans across the country and said goodbye to his time as President of the United States.
At a time when many of us were feeling heartbroken and depressed that this great leader would now be followed by an underserving former reality television star, Obama made sure to leave us with a message of hope and reminded us of what we re fighting for.
It was a beautiful speech, and it highlighted everything we are going to miss about him.One of the more notable parts of the speech was an epic burn Obama delivered, aimed right at President-elect Donald Trump.
While Obama never once said Trump s name, it was blatantly obvious who he was talking about as he spoke about the need for diverse groups of workers to unite and stand together.
Slamming Trump s divisive rhetoric and policies, Obama reached out to workers of all ages, races, genders, and professions when he said: But we re not where we need to be.
All of us have more work to do.
After all, if every economic issue is framed as a struggle between a hardworking white middle class and undeserving minorities, then workers of all shades will be left fighting for scraps while the wealthy withdraw further into their private enclaves.
If we decline to invest in the children of immigrants, just because they don t look like us, we diminish the prospects of our own children because those brown kids will represent a larger share of America s workforce.
And our economy doesn t have to be a zero-sum game.
Last year, incomes rose for all races, all age groups, for men and for women.
Beautifully said.
While Trump may have won the election by dividing Americans and speaking only to white workers in certain professions, Americans can stop him from dividing us further by standing together.
Aside from preventing Trump from creating more division, united workers must also defy him by standing up to his greedy pro-corporation agenda which will only benefit the wealthiest.Obama knew that he had to inspire Americans enough to get them through the next four years under the worst administration they ve ever been faced with.
He succeeded once again.You can watch Obama a full farewell address below, starting at around the 17 minute mark:Featured image via Darren Hauck / Getty Images