Donald Trump has so many feuds going on at the moment it can be hard to keep track of them all.
One of the most potentially damaging feuds, though, is with the United Kingdom s Prime Minister David Cameron.
Now, that feud continues with Trump s latest comments directed towards Cameron.Cameron has made his opinion of the guaranteed Republican presidential nomination very clear.
Back in December, Cameron publicly stated that he thinks Trump s proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States is stupid, divisive and wrong.
Cameron s statement couldn t be more accurate, as Trump s proposal goes against the very basic principles of the United States and would be logistically impossible to enforce.During an interview with Piers Morgan, Trump spoke out against Cameron s comments, offering a sad attempt at an olive branch towards Cameron, where he insisted that he is not stupid and is a unifier.
It looks like we re not going to have a very good relationship.
Who knows!
I hope to have a good relationship with him but it sounds like he s not willing to address the problem either, Trump said in the interview, according to the Jerusalem Post.
Well, number one I m not stupid, Okay.
I can tell you that, right now just the opposite.
Number two, in terms of divisive: I don t think I m a divisive person.
I m a unifier, unlike our president now, I m a unifier, he Trump concluded.As bizarre as it is to hear a grown man insist to another that he is in fact not stupid, Cameron never actually called Trump himself stupid.
He called his policy stupid because it is.
It s also nothing more than an incredibly xenophobic, racist, and ridiculous bit of fear mongering.
It s one of the first policy proposals that Trump introduced.
It sounded the alarm bells that Trump is more than just a buffoon looking for attention, it showed the world that he could actually be a very dangerous threat to the United States and the world if given the opportunity to seize actual political power.Featured image from (Photo by Isaac Brekken/Getty Images)