Make no mistake about it: Ted Cruz is horrible.
But you ve got to admire his ability to stick to his convictions.
His terrible, terrible convictions.
Ted Cruz is a lot of things a raging homophobe, a Christofascist, a man who thinks it is his right to tell women what to do with their bodies because of something he read in a book written by people who had no f*cking clue where the sun goes at night, a greasy pervert who spent his college days creeping around the girls dorm in a bathrobe, and a man whose family seems as disgusted by him as the rest of us are but he s no coward.On Wednesday, Cruz marched right up to the stage and astonished Republicans by doing something previously unheard-of: breaking free, ever so slightly, of the hive mind that seems to have absorbed the Right over time.
He didn t do it for any respectable reasons, of course.
He just believes so strongly that God wants him to be President that it would completely destroy him to endorse Hitler Trump.Cruz spouted the familiar rhetoric we have heard from the seemingly endless line of right-wing automatons that have vomited up verbal dysentery for what feels like an eternity to those of us here at Addicting Info, but one thing was missing that we had heard from the rest: an endorsement.
Sure, Cruz went so far as to endorse Donald Trump s ridiculous wall, but he stopped short of throwing his full weight behind The Donald, encouraging conservatives to vote their conscience.These words caused the vapid, paint fume-huffing Republican base to erupt in a chorus of boos as they demonstrated once and for all that they don t have, or don t care to acknowledge, their respective consciences.Trump crowd turning on Cruz pic.twitter.com/BCjUp2Aiv4 Graham Moomaw (@gmoomaw) July 21, 2016Yes, this was a terrible scene almost something out of Black Mirror.
But this dreadfully surreal moment did offer one small glimmer of happiness to distract from the rather depressing image of thousands of Republicans booing the idea of having a conscience: the look on the Trump family s faces.Buzzfeed s Jon Passantino posted a photo on Twitter of the Trump family as Cruz spoke, and it was just ugly.The look on the Trumps faces as they watched Cruz s speech pic.twitter.com/0FoGaoM9Xp Jon Passantino (@passantino) July 21, 2016Others in the crowd reacted very negatively.
Amid the roar of the enraged crowd, Heidi Cruz had to be escorted away for her safety as Trump s rabid fans turned on her:Angry Ken Cuccinelli escorting Heidi Cruz out as Trump supporters yell at her pic.twitter.com/G6USuhoSx2 Graham Moomaw (@gmoomaw) July 21, 2016It may be that Ted Cruz committed political suicide.
But for his own selfish reasons, to keep that one last shred of dignity he has left, Cruz did what we all have a responsibility to do: he took a stand against Donald Trump.
Sure, his method was simply a refusal to endorse, but the rest of us have an opportunity to do more by heading to the polls in November and saying no to the sort of hate that Donald Trump spreads.Be sure to vote BLUE on Election Day.
In the mean time, enjoy the looks on the Trump family s faces.
Cherish them.
Remember them.
You ll be seeing them again in November.Featured image via screengrab