Attention, conservative men.
This one is for you.After reading a pair of anti-abortion letters written by men published in the Minneapolis Star Tribune in response to the Supreme Court striking down Texas s draconian abortion law, Heidi Seltz couldn t stand to sit back and take the bullshit any longer.Texas law had forced abortion clinic doctors to obtain admitting privileges at an area hospital in order to continue providing reproductive services to patients.
It also required clinics to become ambulatory surgical centers or they would be forced to shut down.
Both requirements shuttered many clinics that women rely on for care and would have closed many more had the Supreme Court not ruled 5-3 against the law.Apparently, some men in Minnesota were very angry that the high court blocked their ability to tell women what they can and cannot do with their bodies and they publicly whined to the newspaper about it.So Heidi felt she should respond so that women are represented among the opinions published.
And she only needed a few sentences to rip them a new one and put them in their place.
It would be nice if men would shut up and if editors would help them, she wrote.
Unless you have a woman s body, I don t want to hear your opinion on what women s bodies should or should not do.
In fact, it would be a delight if the Star Tribune Editorial Board ceased publishing men s letters about women s bodies entirely.
Perhaps newspaper readership among young people would grow if every time we opened a paper, we didn t have to read old men s fusty opinions about uteri.
Here s the letter via Twitter.Heidi is sick of your bullshit.
pic.twitter.com/7TGEz5Q3TD Stacey Burns (@WentRogue) June 30, 2016More women like Heidi Seltz must speak up in this way so that men do not dominate the conversation on reproductive rights.
For too long, men have spearheaded the movement to restrict the reproductive rights of women to the detriment of women s health and freedom.
The men in this movement are mostly conservatives who want to control women s bodies and make them submit to their will.
That s why whenever Republicans in Congress form a committee to whine about abortion and contraceptives it s very noticeable that they rarely include a woman on the panel.
Usually it s old white men who think they know everything about women s bodies and how they work.
That has to change and it will only change if women stand up for themselves and demand it.Featured image via Twitter