Trump received a massive amount of backlash earlier in his campaign for his disrespectful, offensive mockery of award-winning New York Times reporter Serge Kovaleski, who suffers from a muscular disorder called arthrogryposis.
Although Trump denied that he d been making fun of Kovaleski (he obviously was), some uncovered footage reveals that Trump has been poking fun at those with physical and mental disabilities long before that incident.In a 2004 interview on the Howard Stern Show, Trump made light of those with mental disabilities and challenges when he called a reporter retarded for criticizing his business skills something we all know The Donald is extremely sensitive about despite his claims that he has very thick skin.
Since Trump has zero experience in politics, the only thing he s been able to use as justification for why he is qualified to be President of the United States is his business record which is actually horrendous when you look past the lies he spews.
Still, even if he knows that several of his businesses have failed or were scammy operations, Trump does NOT like it when people point this out.
So when Trump was questioned on Stern s show about a reporter who critiqued his business skills, Trump resorted to insults and disrespecting an entire demographic of people with disabilities.In the interview, co-host Robin Quivers addressed the criticism on Trump being shady and scammy in his business deals.
Quivers said, They are saying that then those guys don t get a return.
You always make out but the guys don t get a return.
Trump shot back: Okay, I know, and that makes me a bad person right?
I know I was criticized in one magazine where the writer was retarded, he said, Donald Trump put up $7 million, they put up $193 million and they are 50/50 partners.
Why isn t Donald Trump putting up more money?
And you know it is supposed to be because I am smart.If I put up this, they put up like 45 times more money, and then they criticize me for not putting up more money.
I mean these guys are dopes.
But what am I going to do?
You can listen to the audio below, where Trump also talks about suing media outlets that speak out against him and the upcoming election:Trump often uses the fact that he is not politically correct as a selling point in his race for the White House, and his bigot, racist tribe obviously connects with that.
But mocking a group of people, whether it s for their race, religion, sex or physical/mental disability is honestly disgusting.
If you need to be reminded of just how awful Trump is, here s a clip of when he mocked Kovaleski an incident that he still will not admit to.Featured image is a screenshot