Donald Trump just got humiliated by CNN with facts after he attacked the network on Twitter.Trump once again referred to CNN as fake news while praising Fox News for having higher ratings during the inauguration ceremony.Congratulations to @FoxNews for being number one in inauguration ratings.
They were many times higher than FAKE NEWS @CNN public is smart!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017It s absolutely petty, not to mention totally biased, for a president to promote one news organization over another.
It s especially embarrassing for a president to attack the free press like Trump has been doing.But CNN fired back on Twitter soon after Trump s post, informing him that CNN and Fox actually tied in total viewership for the day and CNN had an additional 16.9 million on digital platform.
According to Neilson s cumulative numbers, 34 million people watched CNN s inauguration day coverage on television.
34 million watched Fox News.
There were an additional 16.9 million live video starts on CNN digital platforms.
Those are the facts.
@realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/bTtBoNr0Bn CNN Communications (@CNNPR) January 25, 2017So while people tuned into Fox for the ceremony itself, most people tuned in to watch CNN s commentary and analysis as the day continued.
In other words, while people were willing to watch Fox to catch the inauguration, they did not want to watch Fox News biased propaganda afterward and chose to watch CNN instead.Donald Trump has been targeting CNN for awhile now.
He repeatedly attacked them on the campaign trail and now he is still attacking them now, even going so far as to call them fake news during a press conference earlier this month.
If President Obama has called Fox fake news during a press conference conservatives would have screamed bloody murder and accused Obama of attacking the free press.But as usual, conservatives are hypocrites because they don t seem to have any problem with Trump attacking the free press as long as he only attacks the real free press.Featured image via Steve Pope/Getty Images