21st Century Wire says After President Donald J. Trump s previous visa suspension was blocked by federal courts, he has fulfilled his vow to overturn this by introducing a new Executive Order temporarily blocking travel to the US for residents of six Muslim-majority countries pending revision of visa procedures.
The order halts the issuance of new US visas to citizens of Iran, Libya, Syria, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen for the next 90 days.The new Executive Order was revealed to reporters today by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Due to increased co-operation between the Baghdad and US governments on background checks of applicants, Iraq is excluded from the Order.More on this report from Russia Today RT President Donald Trump has issued a new executive order, temporarily blocking travel to the US for residents of six Muslim-majority countries pending revision of visa procedures.
The previous travel ban, issued in January, was blocked in federal courts.Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the new executive order to reporters on Monday.The order halts the issuance of new US visas to citizens of Iran, Libya, Syria, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen for the next 90 days.Iraq, which was included in the January ban, was left off the list this time after the government in Baghdad agreed to increase cooperation with the US on background checks for its citizens applying for visas, AP reported.Iraqi Foreign Ministry spokesman Ahmed Jamal called the decision an important step in the right direction that consolidates the strategic alliance between Baghdad and Washington in many fields, and at their forefront the war on terrorism.
Tillerson thanked the government in Baghdad for working with the State Department on improving vetting, and called the order a vital measure for protecting our national security.
The new order also imposes a 120-day halt on refugee admissions from the six countries.
Legal permanent residents ( Green Card holders) from the countries will not be affected, however, Reuters reported citing a fact sheet supplied by the administration.
Nothing in this executive order affects existing lawful permanent residents, Kelly said, adding that Homeland Security will enforce it humanely, respectfully and with professionalism.
Trump s senior aide Kellyanne Conway provided confirmation in an interview with Fox News on Monday.
If you have travel docs, if you actually have a visa, if you are a legal permanent resident, you are not covered under this particular executive action, Conway said, adding that the new order will go into effect on March 16 Continue this report at RT READ MORE TRUMP AT: 21st Century Wire TRUMP FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV