Trump s latest fiasco is so bad that it s bleeding over into other GOP presidential campaigns.
Not only that, but there s every reason to think this could land on House and Senate Republicans in 2016 as well.
You can see the perfect example of it already happening in the videos below.It all started with Trump saying, during a town hall interview with Chris Matthews, that he feels there should be a punishment for women who get abortions.
This is how he suggests you enforce a theoretical law that would either ban abortion altogether or punish certain abortions that happen outside of limitations like rape and incest.The backlash to this came swiftly from pro and anti-abortion advocates alike.
Despite both sides disavowing it, though, the damage to Republicans has already been done.
Now, Republicans other than Trump ones who bragged hugely about how they would do everything they can to ban abortion in an effort to out-pro-life each other are being asked a very uncomfortable question while the cameras are rolling; What kind of punishments would you seek for women who get abortions?
Here is the first of two reasons why this might be the worst thing to happen to the Republican party since Trump:.
@JohnKasich reacts to Trump s abortion comments: Of course, women shouldn t be punished for having an abortion https://t.co/bLyaNPVGoE MSNBC (@MSNBC) March 30, 2016Remember, John Kasich is the grown up in the room and he can t even answer the freakin question properly.
How would you punish women is not answered by there s exceptions for rape, unless you think literally every pregnancy is caused by rape in America, which I doubt he does.
And, admitting you wouldn t punish them is going to political suicide.But wait, it gets even worse.Here is how it will go down.
Republican voters finally heard a Republican presidential candidate say they would actually go after women who get abortions with criminal penalties .
This is the answer to their prayers literally.
Now the smell of blood is in the air and Republicans will not take no for an answer to the question of will you punish women who get abortions?
Below is the second reason and a perfect example of the sh*tstorm that Trump has started:Trump may have single-handedly taken the entire pro-life movement to a place from where it won t easily be able to recover.
Logically speaking, it s difficult to ban a thing without criminal penalties associated with violating the ban.
Republican voters want sooooo badly for there to be criminal penalties for women who murder babies along with the doctors and whoever else they can blame for it.
The logical outcome of this is obvious.In the space of one day being pro-life was made uncool for Republicans.
Now you need to be pro-punishment to satisfy your rabid voter base.
Bravo Donald, you just helped Democrats more than you will ever know.Featured image via youtube screen capture Featured image via video screen capture