The media is in an all out frenzy today, as they attempt to help pump up the sales of the horribly flawed presidential candidate and Benghazi liar, Crooked Hillary, while attempting to trash our beloved president.
Does the media, or Hillary really believe we re going to buy into their latest attempt to prop up America s biggest loser s book sales, while trying to paint President Trump as some sort of creeper ?Here are just a few of the usual suspects who jumped in with this nothing burger story in an attempt to help Hillary sell her book: Cosmopolitan, the former fashion and beauty magazine, also chimed in on the nothing burger story to show their support for the crooked female who set the woman s movement back at least 50 years: Hillary how quickly you forget about the creepy people you ve surrounded yourself with for most of your adult life.
Do you seriously think any American will take you seriously when you call President Trump a creep for standing to close to you, after your husband, who s been accused of rape and sexual assault by many women, had oral sex with a 19-year old intern in the Oval Office?
What about serial creeper Joe Biden, who you just can t seem to get enough of?From the Trump-hating The Hill: Hillary Clinton writes in her new book that Donald Trump s attempts to intimidate her during the presidential debates made her skin crawl and that she wanted to tell him to back up, you creep.
What would you do?
Do you stay calm, keep smiling and carry on as if he weren t repeatedly invading your space?
the 2016 Democratic nominee asks in her new book, What Happened, excerpts of which were released by MSNBC s Morning Joe early Wednesday.
Or do you turn, look him in the eye and say loudly and clearly Back up, you creep.
Get away from me.
I know you love to intimidate women, but you can t intimidate me, so back up.
Listen to the phony Hillary read an excerpt from her new book that will likely end up where the last book did, on a bargain basement shelf at Walmart.Coming up, we'll have a Morning Joe Exclusive on Hillary Clinton's new book, and here is a first look of Clinton discussing a debate.
pic.twitter.com/xRkgcoTnKw Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) August 23, 2017Or this Was Hillary s poor health the reason for Joe Biden s awkward embrace while they campaigned together in Pennsylvania, or was it simply just another perfectly acceptable creeper moment from the former Vice President.