Wednesday night was the final Democratic debate before the March 15 Primaries, and it was heated.
However, the biggest controversy of the night didn t come from the candidates sparring with each other.
It came when a Mexican-American teenager sang the National Anthem at the beginning of the debate.
Apparently, white America believes only Caucasians are allowed to sing that song.Fifteen-year-old Sebastien de la Cruz took the stage before the debate and sang a beautiful rendition of our national song.
He has an amazing voice for someone so young and of course, given the fact that it was a Univision debate, it made sense that a Latino/a give the performance.
Racists, however, weren t interested in praising the child for his vocal abilities or using common sense; instead, they decided to spew hate all over Twitter, because they are a$$holes.Here are some of their responses: .CNN this is the dumbest thing I ve quite possibly ever saw.
For a minute I forgot I was in #America until they sang the national anthem.
Millennial 2016 (@millennial2016) March 10, 2016the only thing worse than this democratic debate national anthem is that morons mariachi outfit Richard Obama (@comebackteam12) March 10, 2016 Gawd the guy who sung the national anthem looked like the Frito Bandito!!
Bill Maier (@BillStl) March 10, 2016The Dem Debate hosted by Mexico, the National Anthem sung by little @marcorubioHillary promises she won t lie Bernie offers free churros Loki Anthony (@DANKBEANS) March 10, 2016@BerniePride its our #nationalanthem and should be treated with respect how would you like it if i sing #lacucaracha in my unclesam suite truthsayer (@veterans4truth) March 10, 2016This isn t the first time this young man has been the target of racism.
In 2013, the then 13-year-old sang the Star-Spangled Banner before Game 3 of the NBA finals and the scummiest Americans reacted in the same way.
They called him all sorts of names, but his response was perfect: My father was actually in the [U.S.] Navy for a really long time, De La Cruz told San Antonio Fox 29 in an interview about the backlash.
People don t know; they just assume that I m just Mexican.
But I m not from Mexico.
I m from San Antonio, born and raised, a true San Antonio Spurs fan.
Fortunately, the positive comments far outweighed the negative this time around.
Sadly, though, he will probably always be the target of scumbags who hate him just because his skin is tanner than theirs.
Murica.Watch his Democratic Debate opener:https://www.facebook.com/UnivisionPolitica/videos/1723550777860081/Featured image via video screenshot