Even in the beginning of Republican front runner Donald Trump s campaign, Americans were panicking and weighing their options in case Trump just happened to get into the White House.
Celebrities such as Rosie O Donnell, Cher, Eddie Griffin, Samuel L. Jackson and Jon Stewart have all previously said they would flee the country, and it looks like many more Americans are planning on joining them.TwitterAt first Trump s candidacy seemed so improbable, it was almost a joke.
But after Donald Trump s Super Tuesday performance where the business mogul came out on top for the GOP, Americans are being confronted with a horrifying reality.
Following his success, Google searches for How to move to Canada skyrocketed as Americans realized they might be faced with a Trump presidency.
According to Google s Data Editor Simon Rogers, the searches spiked by 350 percent in the span of only four hours.TwitterAccording to Mashable, the searches for relocating to Canada had surged 1,150% as time went on!MashableHere are some more interesting data results:MashableMashableMashableAnother interesting fact that Google s data revealed was that the areas in the country where people were using this search term more were states where Trump won the majority vote Tennessee, Massachusetts, Georgia and Virginia.
The topic was trending so much that Toronto Coun.
Norm Kelly even tweeted out a link to help Americans, which got more than 36,000 retweets.TwitterAround the time when Google was being flooded with these type of searches, Mashable also reported that the Canadian Government s immigration website was experiencing delays.MashableAmerica s newfound obsession with Canada didn t happen overnight, though.
From the moment Trump announced his presidential run, Americans began talking about what they would do if this great country was forced to endure President Trump.
As Trump s campaign went on and his hateful rhetoric toward immigrants and Muslims came to light, these rumblings only intensified.TwitterConsidering how different Canada s new prime minister Justin Trudeau is from Trump, it s hard not to consider that option.
Just watch this: Our worst nightmares have actually come true the joke of a candidate that was never supposed to make it this far is now leading the Republican party.
In case you re one of the many Americans who is considering a move to our northern neighbor if Trump wins, here s a practical guide to get you started.
However, many anti-Trumpers are taking a different stance: urging everyone to stay in America and fight back to minimize the disasters Trump will undoubtedly create during his presidency.TwitterWhat would you choose to do?
Featured image via Flickr