President Obama, who as a candidate once urged supporters to bring a gun to the knife fight of his campaign, on Tuesday decried vicious rhetoric from Republican presidential candidates.Here is a great compilation of Obama s top 5 hits on his opponent (50% of America).
Can you imagine the comments that haven t been recorded, like at the recent meeting with Black Lives Matter terrorists who were invited guests of Barack Obama s, coincidentally just prior to the organized Chicago Trump rally riots?During the annual Friends of Ireland luncheon at the U.S. Capitol, Mr. Obama told a bipartisan group of lawmakers that he is more than a little dismayed about what s happening on the campaign trail lately.
Never one to miss out on the opportunity to bash his enemies our very un-statesman like Community Organizer In Chief took the opportunity when speaking in front of the Prime Minister of Ireland to not talk about relations with Ireland, but instead, to bash Donald Trump.
He made it clear to this group who has absolutely nothing to do with our elections, that he is watching his every move Trump makes and will use every opportunity, no matter how inappropriate, to damage his reputation.
Probably the most sickening and dishonest part of this video is when Obama begrudgingly tells Speaker Of The House, Paul Ryan (R) that, I know you are a great father and a great husband and that, We can have political debates without turning on each other at the 7:45 mark: We have heard vulgar and divisive rhetoric aimed at women and minorities at Americans who don t look like us, or pray like us or vote like we do, Mr. Obama said in an obvious reference to Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump.
We ve seen misguided attempts to shut down that speech, however offensive it may be.
In response to those attempts, we ve seen actual violence, and we ve heard silence from too many of our leaders.
As he has increasingly in recent days, Mr. Obama lamented any effort to spread fear or encourage violence, or to shut people down when they re trying to speak, or turn Americans against one another.
As a citizen who will still be leading this office, I will not support somebody who practices that kind of politics, the president said.But as a candidate for the White House in 2008, Mr. Obama was no stranger to violent rhetoric.
He encouraged the notion that he was a product of Chicago s particularly tough brand of politics.At a campaign event in Philadelphia in June 2008, Mr. Obama told supporters, If they bring a knife to the fight, we bring a gun.
Because from what I understand, folks in Philly like a good brawl.
I ve seen Eagles fans.
Later that year, as polls showed a close race between Mr. Obama and Republican nominee John McCain, Mr. Obama urged a crowd of about 1,500 at a campaign rally in Elko, Nevada, to get confrontational in their community for him.
I need you to go out and talk to your friends and talk to your neighbors, Mr. Obama said.
I want you to talk to them whether they are independent or whether they are Republican.
I want you to argue with them and get in their face.
The president on Tuesday seemed to be referring to such comments of his own when he remarked, All of us can recall some intemperate words that we regret.
Certainly, I can.
And while some may be more to blame than others for the current climate, all of us are responsible for reversing it.
Via: Washington Times