Leading Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has been bashing party leaders for several days after rival Ted Cruz has successfully maneuvered himself into securing several delegates.
As Trump sees it, its unfair and undemocratic for Cruz to obtain delegates via state party meetings, arcane rules governing who receives delegates from primaries and the like.As a result, Trump has been loudly whining to the media.During an exclusive interview with The Hill at Trump Tower, Trump said, It s a disgrace for the party.
And Reince Priebus should be ashamed of himself.
He should be ashamed of himself because he knows what s going on.
Trump is furious with several aspects of the Republican nominating process, including how Colorado recently awarded all of its 34 delegates to Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) without having a primary or a caucus.
He doesn t agree that some delegates aren t bound to vote for their state or district winner at this summer s GOP convention in Cleveland.
It should go to a vote in Colorado like other places.
The best way to do it would be just a vote, should be a vote of the people.
That s the way it should be done.
The delegate situation is a very unjust way of doing things.
After months of sucking it up, RNC Chairman Reince Priebus finally spoke up, releasing a tweet that without naming any names ridiculed the argument that Trump has been making.Nomination process known for a year + beyond.
It's the responsibility of the campaigns to understand it.
Complaints now?
Give us all a break Reince Priebus (@Reince) April 13, 2016With those few words, Priebus gives establishment oxygen to the so-called #NeverTrump movement.
The party does not want Trump to get the nomination, as he loses to both Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders with double-digit percentages, while also he has already become a drag on down-ballot House and Senate races.The tweet shows that they may be willing to use every obscure party rule at their disposal at the convention in Cleveland in order to knock Trump off the ballot and turn to a candidate like Cruz, John Kasich, or even Mitt Romney, in order to stop a likely loss of the presidential election from becoming a complete bloodbath for the Republican Party.At the same time, Trump has shadowy figures in his corner like Republican dirty trickster Roger Stone and conspiracy theorist radio host Alex Jones, who already plan to protest in Cleveland, and have proposed a plan to confront delegates in their hotel rooms in order to keep pro-Trump votes in line.Featured image via Flickr