The shootings were not even over yet before the conservative newspaper New York Post blared a headline declaring civil war between black people and police on Friday.
CIVIL WAR Four cops killed at anti-police protest, the headline read late Friday night as the New York Post unveiled their Friday morning cover as blood was being spilled in Dallas.Friday s cover: 4 cops killed in Dallas tragedy https://t.co/NpUskqqtLt pic.twitter.com/tlqx0P721y New York Post (@nypost) July 8, 2016As it turns out, five police officers were killed, but the protesters at the Black Lives Matter rally were peaceful and had nothing to do with the killing.Regardless of the facts, the New York Post clearly suggested that Black Lives Matter activists were responsible for the tragedy and escalated the rhetoric by declaring that police and black people are engaged in a civil war with each other even though that is not the case whatsoever.In the wake of the unjustifiable killing of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile by white police officers in Louisiana and Minnesota earlier this week, Black Lives Matter took to the streets to protest the murders and to demand that police officers are held accountable for their actions and that all officers learn to exercise restraint.The protests have been peaceful but one idiot chose to retaliate with senseless gun violence and killed five innocent police officers in Dallas who were on the job observing the rally to guarantee the safety of the protesters.And when the shooting started, police actually protected Black Lives Matter protesters, both black and white, and the protesters actually assisted the police by helping them identify where the shots were coming from.
A black protester even suffered a gunshot wound to the leg when she threw herself on top of her kids to protest them.
BLM worked with police prior to the rally and there was no animosity between the protesters and the Dallas police.
Some officers even posed for pictures with protesters in solidarity.
Demonstration in #Dallas @ Belo Garden Park pic.twitter.com/IUx5IaERSB Dallas Police Depart (@DallasPD) July 8, 2016But Micah Xavier Johnson, who was unaffiliated with BLM and was upset with the movement, turned the peaceful demonstration into a tragedy that the New York Post is now exploiting to to increase tensions further between the black community and police.
And Twitter users blasted them for it.
@nypost delete your paper J rgen Camrath (@uniwave) July 8, 2016 @nypost Shame on you miserable fucks.
pourmecoffee (@pourmecoffee) July 8, 2016That night none of us could sleep because the world was burning and the @nypost decided to pour gasoline on the flames.
Melissa Hawks (@MelissaBHawks) July 8, 2016 @nypost This is one of the most irresponsible headlines I have ever seen a news organization put out.
This is fucking shameful.
Charlie (@notcharchar) July 8, 2016@nypost That seems like race baiting.
No evidence protesters had anything to do with attacks on police Mama s Got A Gun (@MamasGotAGun) July 8, 2016 @bdd4 @nypost Sad state of affairs when a newspaper tries to rouse hatred between Americans #UnitedWeStand Mama s Got A Gun (@MamasGotAGun) July 8, 2016.
@nypost It was NOT an anti-police rally rather a way of bringing #Dallas together blacks/whites/police against senseless killings.
Sheindie (@Sheindie) July 8, 2016 @nypost pretty irresponsible headline.
Christopher Ridley (@SFviaNJ) July 8, 2016@nypost this is irresponsible as hell and you should all be ashamed of yourselves t.ink (@00Hex) July 8, 2016 @nypost Doesn t get worse than this headline it s un-American.
Meredith D. (@YankeeBeatCheck) July 8, 2016The New York Post should be ashamed of themselves for publishing this cover.
It only seeks to divide and sow the seeds of hatred and racism.
Black Lives Matter did not kill these five officers.
A lone individual with a gun did.
This cover does nothing more than incite further violence and hate, which is probably making the NRA and their Republican puppets very happy right now.Featured image via Twitter