Former Speaker of the House John Boehner took to Facebook recently to convince people he s just an average Joe who takes pride in his lawn.
After cutting his losses and running away with his tail between his legs when the going got tough with the right-wing extremists he helped cultivate, Boehner has settled into a modest life of being the guy next door:https://www.facebook.com/johnboehner/photos/a.10150573014610550.478816.7328265549/10154712993335550/?type=3If you take the post at face value, you have a guy from Ohio with perfectly green grass and your standard lawn mower.
The problem is, John Boehner isn t a regular guy from Ohio with perfect grass he s worked hard to cultivate, he s a rich elitist standing in front of a mansion with acres of lawn.
The mower is probably borrowed from his landscaper; it s more than likely the little one he uses around flower beds and other areas that the industrial zero-turn mower won t fit in.In other words, the post is, more than likely, a complete farce.
Is it possible that John Boehner mows his own lawn with a 24 inch Toro?
Sure.
Is it possible that he s responsible for having a perfectly cut, lush green lawn in March when everyone else is still waiting for the frost to heave?
Absolutely.
Is it realistic?
Not by a long shot.
It really makes no difference.
The guy is a has been who will be remembered for caving to the Tea Party or Freedom Caucus or whatever the religious zealots demanding government be reduced to four guys and a calculator is calling themselves these days.What is remarkable about the post are the comments.
It s almost sad.
You almost want to feel bad for the guy.
The comments aren t from Democrats looking to disparage him for his obvious privilege, they re from the imbeciles who vote for Tea Party douchebags, setting poor Speaker Boehner s social media world ablaze with accusations that he s a RINO (Republican in name only) who is responsible for Obamacare and anything else the Democrats managed to accomplish while he was in office.
They truly just tore him to pieces: Those are just a few of the scathing comments.
You can visit the post yourself to see just how useless the right finds John Boehner to be.
They hate him more than we do.Featured image from Facebook