The Intellectual Froglegs videos by Joe Dan Gorman are truly a gift to conservatives in America.
Joe Dan uses hard-hitting, brutally honest and absolutely hysterical commentary to deliver an important, eye-opening message to the masses.
He has the ability to expose the Left and the idiocy of those who support their policies like no other.His videos are usually 15 minutes or longer, but the two most common remarks we receive from viewers who have watched his videos on our 100 Percent FED UP Facebook page are: Every American needs to see this video and It was worth watching every minute of this video.
The lines have been drawn there is a segment of society that no matter what they hate Donald Trump, and the notion of him becoming president make them ill.. To them I dedicate this video.
Heh, heh, heh.The number one, two and three issues are the border, the economy and immigration .
all three inextricably connected.
And America wants the damn wall that we ve been promised for 40 years.
Trump will deliver.The haters continue to claim Trump is no conservative but his policies are conservative as hell which leads me to the following conclusion.
Considering Trump s undeniably conservative policies in conjunction with his unparalleled business successes and add the fact that he has lived his life in a WILDLY liberal Manhattan, I conclude that Trump has always been a closet conservative.A businessman has to make friends to succeed.We d like to thank Intellectual Froglegs for the awesome mention in his latest video.
We are honored to be associated with this hard working, smart and conservative voice for conservatives across America.Please go to the Intellectual Froglegs website to view more of Joe Dan s quality videos.Joe Dan Gorman is the creator and producer of Intellectual Frog Legs.
When he is not creating and producing stuff, he is busy eating meat, playing guitar and defending the Constitution from liberal zombies.
Joe Dan is only able to continue doing what he does when you share his videos.
PLEASE HELP Joe Dan in his attempt to cure liberalism by donating to his production costs by clicking HERE.