A 10-year-old girl s awful experience with a TSA agent is now making national headlines after she was forced to undergo an inappropriately long and invasive pat down.Vendela Payne had been traveling back home to California with her family when she was stopped by a TSA agent at the Raleigh-Durham International Airport in North Carolina.
Vendela had accidentally left a Capri Sun drink in her bag as she went through the security line and was flagged for further screening which is when her travel experience changed drastically.Removed from her family, Vendela was forced to endure an uncomfortable pat down that lasted two uncomfortably long minutes.
Her father, Kevin Payne, was on the other side of the glass and began recording the entire screening as he noticed it was an uncomfortable situation.
In the video footage below, you can see how lengthy, repetitive and invasive the pat down was, as Kevin repeatedly calls out the TSA s actions in the overlaying text:If you didn t observe how uncomfortable the pat-down made Vendela feel by her frozen, blank stare in the video, she spoke about the traumatizing experience in an interview with NBC.
The young girl said she kept trying not to throw a tantrum like a 1-year-old.
: My dad was making funny faces silly faces in the mirror and I felt like screaming the whole time.
I know it s to keep everybody on the plane safe, but she kept patting me down.
Pat down, pat down.
It was like, over and over.
TSA agent pats down Vendela s chestWhile Kevin says that he supports airport security policies and safety procedures, he agrees with his daughter that the TSA agent was inappropriate during the pat down.
He said: I m a very big proponent of security, and if they were patting me down no problem, but this was a 10-year-old girl.
The whole system seems to not work the way it should be working.
They gave her a very standard pat-down for an adult female.
I don t think it was modified one bit.
If you look at videos, most pat-downs on adults (take) about a minute.
Start to finish, in real time, (Vendala s pat-down) was 1 minute and 47 seconds.
It just didn t seem like it was an efficient pat-down.
The TSA s website states that screenings are meant to determine if prohibited items are being hidden under clothing and that agents will use sufficient pressure to detect concealed items.
However, the site also says that screening procedures for kids 12 and under have been modified so that children are not likely to undergo a pat down screening.
In Vendela s case, her father believes that the agent chose the pat down screening without considering other options.