Donald Trump s treatment of journalists is so bad that the Reuters news agency is now advising reporters to treat Trump like they would treat a foreign dictator.On Tuesday, Trump and his team announced that they will no longer send surrogates to appear on CNN, an escalation of the war Trump has been waging against the news network, which he calls fake news because they won t promote his agenda.Trump has even praised Fox New s biased reporting as something CNN should copy.Furthermore, Trump and his team have repeatedly threatened and tried to intimidate journalists for doing their jobs just because they aren t writing puff pieces that kiss Trump s ass.Well, Reuters is doing something about it.For 165 years, Reuters has been bringing us news from around the world.
They ve been in the most peaceful and democratic places, but they ve also been in war zones and reported on the most dangerous and tyrannical regimes in world history.In a message to staff on Tuesday, Reuters Editor-in-Chief Steve Adler advised his reporters to start dealing with Trump the way they have dealt with brutal dictators in the past.
It s not every day that a U.S. president calls journalists among the most dishonest human beings on earth or that his chief strategist dubs the media the opposition party, Adler wrote.
It s hardly surprising that the air is thick with questions and theories about how to cover the new Administration.
Adler then revealed his solution for how reporters should handle Trump.So what is the Reuters answer?
To oppose the administration?
To appease it?
To boycott its briefings?
To use our platform to rally support for the media?
All these ideas are out there, and they may be right for some news operations, but they don t make sense for Reuters.
We already know what to do because we do it every day, and we do it all over the world.To state the obvious, Reuters is a global news organization that reports independently and fairly in more than 100 countries, including many in which the media is unwelcome and frequently under attack.
I am perpetually proud of our work in places such as Turkey, the Philippines, Egypt, Iraq, Yemen, Thailand, China, Zimbabwe, and Russia, nations in which we sometimes encounter some combination of censorship, legal prosecution, visa denials, and even physical threats to our journalists.
We respond to all of these by doing our best to protect our journalists, by recommitting ourselves to reporting fairly and honestly, by doggedly gathering hard-to-get information and by remaining impartial.
We write very rarely about ourselves and our troubles and very often about the issues that will make a difference in the businesses and lives of our readers and viewers.We don t know yet how sharp the Trump administration s attacks will be over time or to what extent those attacks will be accompanied by legal restrictions on our news-gathering.
But we do know that we must follow the same rules that govern our work anywhere.If Donald Trump thinks his relationship with the media is going to get better because he attacks them, he should think again.
Reuters is coming for him and he should be scared, especially if other news organizations follow their example.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images