Beyonce Knowles took the field at Super Bowl 50 and the crowd went wild.
The mega-star and her corps of dancers were perfectly choreographed and brilliantly outfitted.
It was lively and entertaining.
It was also, unfortunately, far too black for those wonderful American racists who just can t help but ruin everything.In case you weren t paying attention, Beyonce s dancers wore berets, which automatically means they support Herman Bell, the famous Black Panther who was tried and convicted of murder in the 1970s without ever being positively identified by an all-white jury.
Even if Bell were indisputably guilty which is beyond questionable by that logic any white person wearing a cross around their neck supports the Westboro Baptist Church, but I digress.At one point, The dancers formed an X on the field, an obvious and admitted tribute to Malcolm X.
They also formed an arrow that pointed at Beyonce, which was obviously meant to call attention to the black woman on the field, and we can t have that.
Only black men in uniform are allowed on football fields, and only if they never have an opinion about anything or show any emotion whatsoever.
It upsets racists.Beyonce and her team also put their fists up in a black power salute, which is also a common sign used by the black panthers and millions of other people since the 1960s.
The coup de gras came after the performance, however, when several of the dancers were photographed around a sign that read Justice For Mario Wood, a young black man murdered by police, which of curse also ties Beyonce to the Black Lives Matter movement.The song Beyonce chose is also about her pride for her heritage.
The lyrics included: My daddy Alabama Momma Louisiana.
You mix that Negro with that Creole Make a Texas bamma I like my baby hair with baby hair and afros I like my Negro nose with Jackson Five nostrils.
The racist douchebags of America have declared that they won t stand for this sort of thing.
These shenanigans are unbefitting a halftime show and they won t sit idly by and allow it to happen.
A black woman and her black dancers performed a number that wasn t acceptable to them, so they demand a return to the glory days when only Paul McCartney, Elton John and other white people were allowed to entertain at halftime.Fifteen minutes of the Left Shark bouncing around to the chicken dance would be more acceptable than having to endure black culture mixed in with their Coldplay.
And just why the hell would Chris Martin join two black artists at the end for a chorus promoting unity for ALL people?
Disgusting.Sadly, that isn t an exaggeration.
The racist bags of sh*t of America can t understand how black artists do anything other than smile and sing innocuous lyrics while impersonating the Four Tops, rejecting their desire to be individuals or to protest for the good of the white race.
They are so upset about it, there s now an Eventbrite announcement for an anti-Beyonce rally outside the NFL headquarters scheduled for February 16th.
The front page of the event reads as though Beyonce held up pictures of Michael Brown and screamed black power into the mic.
Sorry to burst your bubble, racists, but even that would have been acceptable:As if that weren t bad enough, the images used to promote the protest are actually of Herman Bell:Herman Bell was an activist during turbulent times who managed to turn his life around and earn a dual bachelor s and a master s degree and become a positive role model and mentor, all while incarcerated for 35 years for a crime he swears he didn t commit.
In true racist a-holes of America fashion, all they see is an angry young man from another era who was convicted 70s style by a jury of someone else s peers.Organizers have also taken to Twitter, where the memes about how evil black people are and how all they can be are criminals are also making the rounds in connection with the #BoycottBeyonce movement :Fun fact BernieBlacks are incarcerated at higher rate because they commit higher rate of crime ?#NHPrimary pic.twitter.com/oEpCaNo990 Jared Wyand (@JaredWyand) February 10, 2016There are so many ways a guy like that needs to be educated.
The first way would be how to remove your own hgead from your ass and read a book.
They tend to hide lots of useful information in those things.Here s the tweet that perfectly sums up the situation:#BoycottBeyonce = I wish black people would just entertain me instead of standing up for #BlackLivesMatter + being proud of their culture.
jen miller (@jenerallyspeaks) February 9, 2016The rally will happen.
Racists will gather and demand to be heard, because they are white.
Black people will be painted as even more evil than those darned Hispanics.
At the end of the day they ll go home and nobody will care.
The Super Bowl will continue to offer entertaining halftime shows by artists of all backgrounds, because they love ratings and money.Sorry, you meatheads, but the NFL won t be putting David Allen Coe on stage anytime soon.
Featured image from screen capture