These deplorable people are just incapable of taking personal responsibility for their own words and actions.Racism was one of the central themes of Donald Trump s campaign.
So much so, that white supremacists and KKK members flocked to support him.But, of course, conservatives are defending Trump by blaming it all on President Obama.While walking through a diner interviewing white people to get their thoughts on the election, Abby Huntsman talked to a man named Dan who claimed that racism didn t start until President Obama first took office eight years ago.
Apparently, this jackass literally thinks racism didn t exist before 2008.He began by claiming that the reason people are protesting Donald Trump is because they were indoctrinated in the schools as kids.
It starts in the elementary schools where they re just brainwashing kids, Dan claimed.
Our history is really not our history, but they re rewriting history.
The only ones rewriting history in this country are racist conservatives who want to pretend that the Civil War wasn t about slavery, that slavery was just some kind of worker exchange program, and that Moses was a founding father.
Seriously.When asked what he would say to the protesters, Dan said, Grow up.
It s disrespect for the law, disrespect for authority.
This is coming from a man who probably hoped conservatives would attempt a bloody coup if Hillary Clinton had won.
I don t seem to remember any conservatives calling those threats disrespect for the law.
The hypocrisy is strong in this one.Then Dan insisted that everything started going downhill in 2008 when President Obama was first elected.
Dan accused Obama of being a racist and claimed that he defended every black person who broke the law.
Because he he was himself a racist, Dan told Huntsman.
And, I mean, that s harsh but he was.
I mean, he defended every black person that caused a crime.
No, he wasn t. President Obama was merely calling out the documented excessive use of force some police officers have been using against people of color.
That s not racist.When Huntsman expressed doubt about Dan s accusation, he went even further by claiming that President Obama s policies are racist.
But that s not true either.
President Obama has taken a lot of flack for not focusing as much on specifically helping the black community, in fact.
His policies, such as Obamacare, helped people of all races, including Dan, get health insurance that they couldn t previously afford.That s just reality.Here s the video via Youtube:You have to wonder who conservatives are going to blame when they no longer have President Obama to point their grubby little fingers at.Featured Image: Screenshot