Bill Clinton finally spoke up about Donald Trump, and Trump is not going to like what he said.The former president has been quiet since Election Day, but a journalist bumped into him at a local bookstore and got the scoop of a lifetime as Clinton fielded questions from some customers who noticed him.As we all know, the CIA and 17 intelligence agencies and the FBI have all concluded that Russia interfered with our political process to help Trump win.
But Trump and his team continue to defend Russia and insist that we should all ignore the facts and move on as if a cyber attack against our country by a foreign state isn t important.Well, Bill Clinton was asked about Trump s reaction to the assessment and he replied by questioning Trump intelligence.
You would need to have a single-digit IQ not to recognize what was going on, Clinton said.When asked if Trump is smart, Clinton said, He doesn t know much.
One thing he does know is how to get angry, white men to vote for him.
Let s keep in mind that Bill Clinton and Trump know each other, so when Bill Clinton says that Trump doesn t know much he knows what he s talking about.Rather than run a campaign based on policy and facts, Trump ran a campaign designed to divide the American people along racial lines.
Trump used hate and fear to the point where his supporters didn t care about his lack of knowledge about the issues.Clinton even took a shot at Trump for calling his win a landslide, despite losing the popular vote by nearly 3 millions votes and capturing less electoral votes than most presidents in the last 100 years, including President Obama s victories in 2008 and 2012, and Bill Clinton s in 1992.
Landslide?
I got something like 370 electoral votes, Clinton quipped.
That was a landslide.
In the end, Clinton told the people around him to remain vigilant and alert because we are entering a post-truth era where facts don t matter.
Here are images of the editorial as it appeared in the Bedford Pound Ridge Record Review.And now we wait for the temper tantrum that Trump is likely to throw on Twitter.Featured Image: Flickr