Now, it may not have been the intent of CNN to clearly make fun of Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and his pathetic attempt at describing the American Health Care Act (AHCA), better known as Trumpcare, but they definitely succeeded in doing so brilliantly.Ryan really seemed to want to impress people, so instead of doing a traditional Q&A, or laying things out pretty simply, he decided to do a skit.
He literally rolled up his sleeves and did his best Steve Jobs impression with a low-tech powerpoint presentation and began to perform.CNN, clearly seeing this, and not letting the moment escape them, writes an Onion-style headline absolutely making fun of Ryan.
They called his presentation a TED talk which, if you know what a TED talk is, makes the headline hilarious.Here s CNN s amazing shade thrown directly at Speaker Ryan s face:TwitterThen, to top off the amazing shade of the title with even more shade, this is the description of Ryan s shenanigans as written in the article: Forgoing the traditional give-and-take with reporters, Ryan launched at TED talk-style presentation.
With his shirtsleeves rolled up and wearing a wireless microphone that allowed him to move around, the speaker rattled off a stream of facts and figures and clicked through PowerPoint slides.
Then later: Ryan sprinkled his lecture with personal anecdotes about his three children all needing tonsillectomies and how his family dealt with multiple doctors and insurance companies.
The speaker revealed he had Lasik surgery to improve his vision.
If Paul Ryan wants us to take him seriously, then he should start by actually putting together something that we can take seriously, and this sure as hell wasn t it.Here s how everyone else is also making proper fun of Ryan:"And while the software library is somewhat limited, the new Zelda alone makes Nintendo Switch a must-have.
Mom, dad, thanks for listening" pic.twitter.com/ShqslZRPsX Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) March 9, 2017Paul Ryan's healthcare TED Talk really went off the rails.
pic.twitter.com/h3yn4T8Zco ?Maggie Serota ?
(@maggieserota) March 9, 2017Paul Ryan is really getting into this TED talk for healthcare.
#AmericanHealthCareAct pic.twitter.com/faCzXtnES3 brandon (@brandojerg) March 9, 2017pic.twitter.com/I0ARYm09t2 Sarah Wood (@SarahWoodwriter) March 9, 2017Caught the tail end of @SpeakerRyan s powerpoint presentation, and I have to say, I m a little concerned.
pic.twitter.com/vScaYT2LOs Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) March 9, 2017I think what Paul Ryan's PowerPoint was saying: a comparative to Trumpcare would be if the GOP just gave everybody a bottle of coconut oil.
pic.twitter.com/ehqO2Q9Gl3 Alt Fed Employee (@Alt_FedEmployee) March 9, 2017Paul Ryan explaining Trumpcare.
pic.twitter.com/x4w9JweGww Cycle (@bycycle) March 9, 2017"it would be very meta of me to place one of my old Paul Ryan memes inside this new Paul Ryan meme" -me, ten minutes ago pic.twitter.com/BFuHjGsGTo Haley Byrd (@byrdinator) March 9, 2017This Paul Ryan talk seems to at least be honest.
Good for him.
pic.twitter.com/zXSFFo7SOW Elon James White (@elonjames) March 9, 2017 Featured Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images