Paul Manafort, the chair of Donald Trump s campaign, got slammed by Jake Tapper during a segment on CNN s State of the Union Sunday morning.
Manafort attempted to excuse Trump s comment earlier this week regarding Hillary Clinton.
During a campaign event in Wilmington, North Carolina, Trump suggested that should Clinton be elected, it might be up to Second Amendment people to take matters into their own hands and stop her before she gets rid of the Second Amendment.
If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do folks.
Although the Second Amendment people maybe there is, I don t know, Trump said on Tuesday.Since then, Trump and his campaign have received a significant blowback from the comments.
Trump and Manafort have blamed the matter on the media, insisting they are twisting Trump s words.
Those claims are repeated during the segment.
Host Jake Tapper said to Manafort: Here s the thing, it wasn t just reporters.
It was Republicans, it was people in Washington, D.C. who want Mr. Trump to win.
At that point, Tapper proves his point by finding one of the Trump supporters who was in attendance at the event.
The Trump fan says that he was aghast by Trump s remark.
The point is most people did not interpret it that way.
It was not at all meant to be a threat.
But the point again is you could have covered what he was saying or you could try and take an aside and take the Clinton narrative and play it out.
You chose to do that instead.
Then Manafort lists some recent news stories that reflect poorly on Clinton, claiming that Tapper only covers negative news stories about Trump and positive stories about Clinton.
As a factual matter, on Monday, my show covered Mr. Trump s speech.
Okay?
We did.
We covered Mr. Trump s speech.
And we did cover those Hillary Clinton emails, tapper retorts.
So, these things, just because you say them, they re not true.
I mean, we have been covering the substance.
We have been covering things that are bad [for] Hillary Clinton.
You can watch Manafort get creamed by Tapper below.Featured image via video screen capture