President Obama gave a powerful speech today at the memorial service for the five police officers who lost their lives in the horrific ambush on law enforcement that took place last Thursday in Dallas, Texas.
Unfortunately, but not at all unexpectedly, most of his moving words were lost on conservatives.The president dropped some major truth bombs on race in America and followed up with a discussion of the choices that we as a society make which bring us to the place we find ourselves today.As a society, we choose to underinvest in decent schools.
We allow poverty to fester so that entire neighborhoods offer no prospect for gainful employment.
We refuse to fund drug treatment and mental health programs.
We flood communities with so many guns that it is easier for a teenager to buy a Glock than get his hands on a computer or even a book (applause) and then we tell the police you re a social worker, you re the parent, you re the teacher, you re the drug counselor.
We tell them to keep those neighborhoods in check at all costs, and do so without causing any political blowback or inconvenience.
Don t make a mistake that might disturb our own peace of mind.
And then we feign surprise when, periodically, the tensions boil over.Right-wingers began to lose their minds the moment it became clear that Obama was going to have anything more to say than simply offering the worthless thoughts and prayers conservatives are so fond of.
When he mentioned guns, it pushed them over the edge and they launched the #GlockABook hashtag to mock the president s spot on words.Snow White and the Seven Glocks#glockabook The Department of No (@SantasTavern) July 13, 2016How the Glock Saved Christmas.
#GlockaBook Heather 2472 UNBOUND (@WaverSox) July 13, 2016#GlockaBook Gone with the Glock So, you don t like the fact we can legally carry?
Frankly, my dear, I don t give a damn Redheaded Mischief (@Mischief2You) July 13, 2016#GlockaBook The Glocks of the Baskervilles P. Fahrquar, RAT (@irishspy) July 13, 2016#GlockaBook The Glocks of the Baskervilles P. Fahrquar, RAT (@irishspy) July 13, 2016Just how many people have to die before these folks start to realize that maybe, just maybe, we have a problem with guns here in America?
Although deep down I knew better, part of me thought that this could be the straw that broke the gun-loving camel s back and woke Republicans up terrifying reality facing our country.
But, I have thought that every time a mass shooting happens, and every time the only thing right-wingers have to say is Don t take my guns!
It s disgusting and it is downright sad.Featured image via Aude Guerrucci-Pool/Getty Images