President Obama is pissed off and he took Republicans and their nominee to the woodshed on Tuesday for inciting hate against all Muslims and insisting that describing terrorists using certain words will make the threat disappear.Ever since the mass shooting in Orlando, Republicans and Donald Trump have suggested that President Obama is weak on terrorism because he hasn t said the words, radical Islamic terrorism.
Apparently tired of hearing this line of bullshit, President Obama struck back with logic and reason during remarks at the Treasury Department.
What exactly would using this language accomplish?
What exactly would it change?
Would it make ISIL less committed to try and kill Americans?
Would it bring in more allies?
Is there a military strategy that is served by this?
The answer is none of the above.
Calling a threat by a different name does not make it go away.
This is a political distraction, Obama continued before making it clear to anyone who thinks the administration is confused should tell that to all the terrorists who have been killed or captured by our military.
The men and women who put their lives at risk and the Special Forces I ordered to get bin Laden and are now on the ground in Iraq and in Syria they know full well who the enemy is.
So do the intelligence and law enforcement officers who spent countless hours disrupting plots.
And protecting all Americans, including politicians who tweet, and appear on cable news shows.
They know what the nature of the enemy is.
So there s no magic to the phrase radical Islam.
It s a political talking point.
Clearly, Obama was taking aim squarely at Donald Trump without even saying his name by talking about politicians who tweet.
But President Obama had more strong words to say to Republicans and Trump on the subject of discriminating against all Muslim for the actions of one in Orlando.
We are now seeing how dangerous this kind of mindset and this kind of thinking can be, Obama said in reference to Trump s renewing his hateful call to ban all Muslims from entering the country.
We re starting to see where this kind of rhetoric and loose talk and sloppiness about who exactly we re fighting, where this can lead us.
Are we going to start treating all Muslim-Americans differently?
Are we going to start subjecting them to special surveillance?
Are we going to start discriminating them because of their faith?
We ve heard these suggestions during the course of this campaign.
Do Republican officials actually agree with this?
Because that s not the America we want.
It doesn t reflect our Democratic ideals.
It will make us less safe.
Here s the video via YouTube:President Obama has rarely displayed flashes of impatience or anger in response to the Republican Party, but after Trump and the GOP have started to suggest that Obama is helping the terrorists, it appears President Obama is done taking shit from them at a time when he is busy trying to take out ISIS leaders even as Republicans continue to refuse to do their part by declaring war.Indeed, if Republicans believe terrorism is such a big threat, one would think they would take the step of declaring war so that President Obama can use all the tools at his disposal to destroy the terrorists and present a united White House and Congress to the American people on this serious issue.But Trump and Republicans would rather play partisan games instead of doing their jobs to protect the American people.Featured Image: Screenshot