Conservatives once again show that their sense of morality is really only dependent upon which way the political tide is blowing.
First, they had proudly defended their decision to invite Alt-Right (read: Neo-Nazi) darling Milo Yiannopoulos to the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) as a star speaker.
Now, Milo has said MANY things that are reprehensible to any decent person, regardless of political leanings.
He has been openly racist, misogynist, otherwise bigoted, and has just generally been an all around trolling degenerate.
That was no secret.
But still, he was A-OKAY with the good folks who run the right-wing s biggest event of the year.However, right-wingers are cowards.
When things get too hot, they run away like cockroaches.
That is what has happened now that Milo has been caught on tape advocating for and defending pederasty.
Given the obvious and understandable public outcry here, the CPAC folks have dropped Milo like a hot rock.
Right-wing mouthpiece and leading CPAC organizer Matt Schlap tweeted the following announcement regarding his newfound rejection of Milo:"@ACUConservative has decided to rescind the invitation of Milo Yiannopoulos to speak at #CPAC2017."
pic.twitter.com/sVWGnPCW7C Matt Schlapp (@mschlapp) February 20, 2017Of course, Milo has put up his own super defensive Facebook post regarding the matter:This seems to be a bit too far for even some of his rabid fans, though.
Here are just a few responses Milo received on that post: And that s just for starters.
Unfortunately, there are a lot of blind defenders there as well, and others who are off on a tangent about how LGBTQ rights led to the sorts of views that Milo holds.
Either way, Milo has gone way too far this time.
The sad part is that he is now mainstream as far as conservatives go now.
The Alt-Right IS the current face of the GOP under Donald Trump.
It just took this revelation for the folks at CPAC to realize that or rather, it took media attention and political pressure for them to care.
Sad, but true.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images