Just when you thought Trump might have calmed down while basking in the glow of his written-for-him speech at the Joint Address, he decides to come out and make zero sense with a chopped up statement about Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
He could have just left it as a statement on his Facebook page and offered a link to it, but no, he decided to appear as crazy as ever.Keep in mind it was about eight minutes between tweets that s a lot of words for his tiny thumbs.He tweeted: Jeff Sessions is an honest man.
He did not say anything wrong.
He could have stated his response more accurately, but it was clearly not intentional.
This whole narrative is a way of saving face for Democrats losing an election that everyone thought they were supposed to win.
The Democrats are overplaying their hand.
They lost the election and now, they have lost their grip on reality.
The real story is all of the illegal leaks of classified and other information.
It is a total witch hunt!
Jeff Sessions is an honest man.
He did not say anything wrong.
He could have stated his response more accurately, but it was clearly not .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 3, 2017 intentional.
This whole narrative is a way of saving face for Democrats losing an election that everyone thought they were supposed .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 3, 2017 to win.
The Democrats are overplaying their hand.
They lost the election, and now they have lost their grip on reality.
The real story Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 3, 2017 is all of the illegal leaks of classified and other information.
It is a total "witch hunt!"
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 3, 2017First of all, Sessions didn t only lie, he lied under oath, which is otherwise known as perjury.
Trump then saying he he could have been more accurate also proves he lied.Secondly, this has nothing to do with Democrats and everything to do with listening to our entire intelligence community and following through with evidence that Russia interfered with our election.
Something Trump doesn t want to look into, because a.)
he either took part in it OR b.)
because he won and doesn t want the results changed.
Both reasons prove he cares nothing about the sanctity of American democracy.Lastly, saying there are leaks and that there s nothing there in the same sentence contradicts itself.
Which is it?
Are there leaks with info getting out about Russia?
Or is there nothing there?
Can t be both.Trump is running in circles and is clearly panicked.
He s trying to say there s nothing wrong with any of this and it s all everyone else s fault (never his), meanwhile, he s making himself look pretty damn guilty.Having Twitter fits late in the evening isn t a good look on anyone.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images