A New Jersey teenager thought it would be funny to pay a homeless man $5 to pour coffee over himself.
But after the story went viral, the homeless man is now being crowdfunded out of poverty, and that teen is facing the consequences of his actions.65-year-old Ronald Leggatt has been facing the east coast ice storms from a vantage point that most of us couldn t even imagine.
While people shiver next to fires in their homes, Leggatt is on the streets, in sub-zero temperatures.
Surviving each day is a miracle.On Monday, he was approached by a local teen.
He might have hoped for some kind words, or some cash towards extra clothing or food.Instead, the teen offered the desperate man $5 to pour coffee over his own head.
So he obliged.
22-year-old local Carlos Mejia posted images of the incident to Facebook, saying: At first I thought it was an act of kindness but I was wrong, The poor man s eyes and face were red because of the burning coffee, In the image, the teen can be seen shaking the hand of a clearly injured Leggatt.After Mejia s post went viral, Lakewood Police investigated the incident and verified that it did take place.
But sadly, no charges can be filed against the teen.
They said in a statement: After further investigation it was determined, that although the incident occurred in poor judgement, it did not rise to a criminal act, Evidence in the case revealed that both parties were willing participants and no one was injured.
But the local community were so outraged by the incident, that they located Ronald Leggatt and decided to provide him with as much assistance as they could muster.
First, they got his hair cut, provided him with a decent washroom, and bought him new clothes.They then set up a crowd fund campaign to provide reparations to Leggatt in behalf of the entire community.
More than $3,000 has already been raised to help get Laggatt back on his feet.Ari Boyer, a Lakewood resident, told the New York Daily News: The truth is that I saw the thing on Facebook and thought it was a horrible thing to do, I just don t like to see people hurt.
Leggatt is almost unrecognizable in his new clothes, clean and trim.But while Laggatt s life has turned around, the teen who abused him in his hour of need has been shamed publicly.
So excruciating was the embarrassment, he made a video apology for Ronald Leggatt, offering him $20 and to pour coffee over his own head.Laggatt politely declined the offer.The case is a reminder of the very worst, and the very best, any community of human beings has to offer.
Thank goodness that the better angels of Lakewood came together to stand for Ronald Leggatt.Featured Image via YouTube Screengrab