North Carolina is facing even more backlash for their anti-LGBT law Monday after a popular adult film site has decided to block the entire state in protest.XHamster.com went offline in the state at 12:30 p.m. EST today, leaving thousands of fans without their favorite porn site.
When residents of North Carolina go to the webpage they are greeted with a black screen that the site s spokesman, Mike Kulich, says will stay there until lawmakers repeal House Bill 2.
In an interview with the Huffington Post, Kulich explains why the company decided to pull out (no pun intended) of the state: We have spent the last 50 years fighting for equality for everyone and these laws are discriminatory which XHamster.com does not tolerate.
Judging by the stats of what you North Carolinians watch, we feel this punishment is a severe one.
We will not standby and pump revenue into a system that promotes this type of garbage.
We respect all sexualities and embrace them.
He went on to say that even though lawmakers rammed a bill that discriminates against transsexuals through, the viewers of XHamster seem to be far less bigoted than Republicans would like them to be: Back in March, we had 400,000 hits for the term Transsexual from North Carolina alone, he said.
People from that state searched Gay 319,907 times.
That is actually quite common in Southern Bible Belt states, believe it or not.
Although many of the voters in these states proclaim that they love their holy book and do not believe gay people deserve the same rights as everyone else, in the privacy of their own homes they frequently watch gay and lesbian pornography.
Earlier this year PornHub (another popular XXX site) released the most popular categories by state and the South overwhelmingly preferred lesbian porn:Hypocrisy run deep in the South, doesn t it?Kulich says the company plans to replace the black screen with petition to repeal HB2 in the near future: Hopefully, it will get as many signatures as the transsexual searches, he said.XHamster is just the latest in an expanding list of companies and entertainers who are protesting the state s ignorant law.
One thing is becoming very obvious: Bigotry does not pay.
Hopefully, the Republican lawmakers in North Carolina figure this out before they completely destroy their state, but until then, thousands of their voters are going to be a whole lot less satisfied.Featured image via Fallout Wiki