Donald Trump likes to brag that he attended the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, but while he is proud of that, the students and faculty are embarrassed that he is an alumni.In an open letter, students and faculty both past and present condemned Trump for his hateful and bigoted rhetoric and expressed outrage that he is humiliating the school by associating it with his ignorance and intolerance and rejected his use of the school name in his campaign.Here s the full letter via Medium:At the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, students are taught to represent the highest levels of respect and integrity.
We are taught to embrace humility and diversity.
We can understand why, in seeking America s highest office, you have used your degree from Wharton to promote and lend legitimacy to your candidacy.As a candidate for President, and now as the presumptive GOP nominee, you have been afforded a transformative opportunity to be a leader on national and international stages and to make the Wharton community even prouder of our school and values.However, we have been deeply disappointed in your candidacy.We, proud students, alumni, and faculty of Wharton, are outraged that an affiliation with our school is being used to legitimize prejudice and intolerance.
Although we do not aim to make any political endorsements with this letter, we do express our unequivocal stance against the xenophobia, sexism, racism, and other forms of bigotry that you have actively and implicitly endorsed in your campaign.
The Wharton community is a diverse community.
We are immigrants and children of immigrants, people of color, Muslims, Jews, women, people living with or caring for those with disabilities, and members of the LGBTQ community.
In other words, we represent the groups that you have repeatedly denigrated, as well as their steadfast friends, family, and allies.We recognize that we are fortunate to be educated at Wharton, and we are committed to using our opportunity to make America and the world a better place for everyone.
We are dedicated to promoting inclusion not only because diversity and tolerance have been repeatedly proven to be valuable assets to any organization s performance, but also because we believe in mutual respect and human dignity as deeply held values.
Your insistence on exclusion and scapegoating would be bad for business and bad for the American economy.
An intolerant America is a less productive, less innovative, and less competitive America.We, the undersigned Wharton students, alumni, and faculty, unequivocally reject the use of your education at Wharton as a platform for promoting prejudice and intolerance.
Your discriminatory statements are incompatible with the values that we are taught and we teach at Wharton, and we express our unwavering commitment to an open and inclusive American society.In addition, the authors of the letter spoke to NBC about their decision to write it.
It was important for us to speak out against Trump because, as we have seen in many moments throughout history, silence is an act of complicity.
This open letter speaks on behalf of Wharton students, alumni and faculty who wish to speak out against hate and stand in solidarity with all members of our diverse community both at Wharton and across America.
In short, Donald Trump just received a giant middle finger from the school and it s a safe bet that past faculty regret that he was ever allowed to step foot in their classrooms.
Because every time Trump opens his mouth he makes it hard to believe that he could have ever actually earned a degree anywhere in the first place.Featured Image: Mark Lyons/Getty Images