In an amazing open letter, a former US Marine slammed America s village idiot for having the gall to blame President Obama and PTSD for her son s domestic violence arrest.On the same day she incoherently endorsed Donald Trump as the Republican nominee, it was reported that Track Palin had been arrested on weapons and domestic violence charges.Rather than acknowledge that her son broke the law and is responsible for his own actions, Palin chose to blame President Obama and PTSD instead, even though Track Palin never saw combat during his one year in Iraq.
It s a shame that our military personnel even have to question, have to wonder if they re respected anymore, Palin said.
It starts from the top.
The question, though, it comes from the top, the question, though, that comes from our own president where they have to look at him and wonder, Do you know what we go through?
Do you know what we re trying to do to secure America and to secure the freedoms that have been bequeathed us?
My son, like so many others, they come back a bit different.
They come back hardened, they come back wondering if there s that respect for what it is their fellow soldiers and airmen and every other member of the military have so sacrificially given to this country.So when my own son is going through what he goes through coming back, I can certainly relate with other families who kind of feel these ramifications of PTSD and some of the woundedness that our soldiers do return with, and it makes me realize more than ever, it is now or never for the sake of America s finest that we ll have that commander-in-chief who will respect them and honor them.
Needless to say, Palin instantly pissed off veterans across the country, including former US Marine Chris Mark, who also happens to be a Republican.In an open letter posted on his blog, Mark ripped Palin to shreds for using PTSD as a political attack and for using it to excuse her son s behavior.
I am not surprised that you would choose to use this very serious condition as a political football and, once again, attempt to divert blame from your own family s abhorrent, violent behavior, Mark said.After reminding Palin that her entire family was involved in a drunken brawl that should have served as sign that Track has a problem, he went after Palin for stigmatizing PTSD even more than it already is by th media.Calling her statements foolish and ignorant, Mark wrote that he would prefer Palin avoid public life and simply fade away.
But since she refuses to go away, Mark suggested she educate herself and then use her status as a public figure to help veterans.Here s the full letter via Global Security, Privacy, & Risk Management blog.Dear Mrs. Palin,I am a former US Marine and US Navy Officer with a Combat Action Ribbon as well as service connected disabilities.
I am also a Republican.
I have also served with, and am friends with, dozens of combat veterans who suffer daily from various injuries and wounds to include PTSD.
I recently read your comments related to PTSD in which you attempted to excuse your son s arrest on domestic abuse charges and firearm charges by referencing his supposed PTSD.
Based upon your previous comments I am not surprised that you would choose to use this very serious condition as a political football and, once again, attempt to divert blame from your own family s abhorrent, violent behavior.In 2014 your entire family was involved in a late night drunken brawl at a party in which Track Palin (the accused domestic abuser) was involved in a bloody fight.
While you publicly stated how proud you were at your children s violent actions, maybe this should have been a sign that Track has a problem.
It is certainly curious that you did not feel the need to reference his supposed PTSD in this situation and instead stated: my kids defense of family makes my heart soar!
Maybe, instead of encouraging Track s violence, you should have taken the opportunity to get him help.
Maybe, instead of being the result of PTSD, your son was simply trying to uphold the stated Palin family values and make your heart soar by abusing a woman.PTSD is stigmatized in the media and not well understood by the general public.
An estimated 22 veterans commit suicide every day in the United States.
This is nearly 8,000 veterans who take their lives every year.
Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) stated: Every day in the United States, 22 veterans succumb to suicide losing their personal battle to invisible wounds of war.
Veterans who have willingly given so much in service to their country should not have to bear the burden of being further stigmatized by your ignorant and foolish statements.While I do not propose to speak for all veterans, I am clearly not alone in my views regarding your unfortunate statements.
They were unfortunate for the many veterans who face further disdain and discrimination based upon your inaccurate and ignorant portrayal of those who suffer with PTSD as well as the causes of the condition.While I would personally prefer that you simply avoid public life and simply fade away, if you insist on trying to use your celebrity status for a cause, please educate yourself on the facts of PTSD and try to help veterans by using your significant influence in a more productive, and less political manner.
There are a number of veteran s organizations to which you can donate time, money and energy to make a difference.Regards,Chris MarkAnd there you have it.
Sarah Palin made an ass of herself in public again and this Marine called out her stupidity, much like another veteran did during a rally in 2013 after Ted Cruz managed to persuade his fellow conservatives to shut the government down.
Palin attempted to use veterans to criticize President Obama for not bowing down to Republican demands when one veteran reminded everyone that she s an idiot.But Palin really stepped in it this time around and now she has to answer to veterans across the country who actually deal with PTSD every day.
She owes all of them a huge apology.Featured Image: Fox News