With this presidential election being as absolutely bizarre as it is, sometimes it s incredibly important to keep our sense of humor about us.
One person who seems to being doing this very well is none other than Dixie Chicks Natalie Maines.As a woman who s never shied away from letting her opinion be known about politicians, Maines began by taking to Twitter to make a joke about her apparent issues with airline travel saying that she ll vote for whoever makes the airline industry decent again.
Although, she had one quick addendum to that statement: But only if it s a Clinton.
At this point I might vote for whichever candidate promises to make the airline industry decent again.But only if it's Clinton?.
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) September 22, 2016Then Maines went on to joke about the fact that not even George H.W.
Bush can vote for Trump for president.
Which for a Bush not to vote for a bad president to be in office is just utter irony.Even Bush won't vote for Trump!Which honestly has kind of turned my world around and forced me to rethink everything.#skiddin Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) September 22, 2016She didn t stop there, however, in reply after reply, the jokes kept coming:@giannaL Oh no!
Not at all!
It's totally natural.For an Umpa Lumpa.
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) September 22, 2016@DCXn24Fan OMG!
That's even a better visual than him in a tanning bed.
So presidential!
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) September 22, 2016@mysheltieestate @hochalicious Actually it's also hands.
And he has little ones.
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) September 22, 2016@DarthPug Let's hope they forget to register.
Natalie Maines (@1NatalieMaines) September 22, 2016And those are just a few of the replies.Maines was clearly on Twitter and ready to strike back at anyone or anything (if we re talking about Trump supporters) that decided to reply to her tweets against him.
And honestly, we re all a little better for her wit and wisdom during this most troubling time.Featured image via Mike Windle/Getty Images for SiriusXM