Ammosexuals also tend to be anti-gay bigots, so it s no surprise that this particular unfortunate victim of his own love of his penis extension gun would shoot himself in the bathroom of a Chik-fil-A location.While most of us boycott the Christian chicken chain out of sheer principle, but not the 45-year-old victim of his own hubris.
He was apparently pulling up his pants in the facilities of the locations (hey, even gun nut heroes have to use the john now and then, right?)
when the Glock pistol went off.
Luckily for the unnamed miscreant, the bullet only grazed his leg.
Hardly a fatal injury, of course, but still quite unfortunate and dangerous.Local station WHOH tweeted the story, but, at this time, there is not much information.
The victim was able walk out of the Chik-Fil-A location and transport himself to a local hospital for medical care.
The injury is not serious, and, of course, no charges will be filed.BREAKING: Fairfield Twp police and medics say a man accidentally shot himself in the bathroom of the Chick-fil-a.
pic.twitter.com/GwXHFz12MI WMOH Newswire (@WMOHNEWSWIRE) April 28, 2015That s the real rub, though.
This guy luckily only shot himself.
However, how many incidences have there been of responsible gun owners injuring or even killing other people where the law decides that it was just an accident?
Too many to count, really.
This is just evidence of the fact that we need tighter laws regarding firearm ownership.
Not everyone who is eligible to buy, own, and conceal carry a gun should be able to do so.This guy likely was another nutjob who couldn t bear to be anything but fully locked and loaded, even in a public restroom in a self-proclaimed family restaurant, and he was injured as a result.
What about next time, though?
And, believe me, there will be a next time.
No one who is irresponsible enough to have an accident like this is a one-off shooter.
In fact, if he were any sort of normal, responsible gun owner, he d have never been pulling his pants up in a Chik-Fil-A bathroom with a fully loaded gun in the first place.Featured image via video screen capture from NY Daily News