Fox host Sean Hannity lost his cool during a radio interview with Ted Cruz yesterday, as the GOP candidate tried to dodge answering questions that might actually be helpful to voters.Hannity, who is a Trump supporter, brought up the way Cruz s campaign handled delegates, stating that it baffled many (and possibly being annoyed that Cruz was more prepared to win over delegates than Trump).
Cruz completely avoided answering the question, and actually told Hannity he didn t think people cared about that.
Hannity pushed back, insisting that millions of his followers wanted to know because they find this whole process confusing.
Once again, the GOP s least likable Republican dismissed Hannity s question, claiming that the only people who cared were on Trump s team.
Cruz must have gotten Hannity s blood boiling, because then the Fox host blew up.
He said: Senator, why do you do this?
Every single time no, you gotta stop!
Every time I have you on the air, and I ask a legitimate question, you try to throw this in my face.
I m getting sick of it.
I ve had you on more than any other candidate on radio and TV.
So if I ask you a legitimate question to explain to the audience, why don t you just answer it?
Cruz s response was equally testy as he shot back, Sean, can I answer your last question without being interrupted?
Then he made a half-ass attempt to respond to Hannity s question, but insisted that as I travel the country, nobody is asking me this, other than the Trumpsters and the people repeating it.
Hannity wasn t satisfied and continued to press the Texas Senator, stating that it s a simple question, it s not a Trump question.
You could tell that both men had gotten under each other s skin, because at one point in the interview, Hannity said to Cruz: Senator, I don t know why you re mad.
And Cruz insisted that he wasn t mad, he was just annoyed that they were talking only about the nonsense instead of policy.Here s the intense interview, via The Sean Hannity Show:The interview clearly left Hannity with a bad taste in his mouth, because when the interview was over he took to Twitter to blast the candidate:TwitterTwitterTwitterHannity is known for giving pretty mild interviews to Republicans, but he was obviously no match for Cruz s ability to annoy anyone he comes in contact with.Featured image via Gerardo Mora / Getty Images