Karma just kicked Donald Trump s door down.As you ll recall, Donald Trump repeatedly praised Wikileaks for leaking Hillary Clinton s campaign emails.
Those leaks helped Trump win the election, but now Trump s love of Wikileaks has come back to bite him on the ass.Trump CIA Director Mike Pompeo and his Attorney General Jeff Sessions have both criticized Wikileaks since Trump took office and both have promised to arrest Wikileaks leader Julian Assange.Pompeo even admitted that Wikileaks is a non-state hostile intelligence service often abetted by state actors like Russia.
Indeed, Trump colluded with Russia to win the election.Sessions told reporters this week that he intends to put people like Assange in jail for leaks.
We are going to step up our effort and already are stepping up our efforts on all leaks, Sessions said.
This is a matter that s gone beyond anything I m aware of.
Here s the video via Twitter.U.S.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions on bringing charges against Julian Assange pic.twitter.com/BudIEN2uK0https://t.co/LN04EvJ8FK WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) April 21, 2017And Trump himself recently declared that he supports the Justice Department effort to arrest and charge Assange, telling reporters that s it s okay with me.
So Wikileaks decided to hit back by posting video of Trump telling his rally crowd how much he loves Wikileaks.Donald Trump, October 10, 2016: This just came out.
WikiLeaks!
I love WikiLeaks!
pic.twitter.com/KWP7X2aLiN WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) April 21, 2017Oops.
Trump apparently forgot that he was in bed with Wikileaks during the election.
He loved them for attacking Hillary Clinton for his own benefit.
Now Wikileaks is probably regretting helping Trump because their leader is now being targeted by his administration.
And Trump has to be concerned about Wikileaks digging up information on him and releasing it to the public.This is what karma looks like.
Trump had no problem with Wikileaks when the organization was attacking Hillary.
Now we get to see how Trump likes being attacked by them.
This ought to be damn entertaining.Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images