A scant few Republicans on Capitol Hill want investigations into Michael Flynn s ties to Russia, and by extension, Trump s. Others are sweeping it away by saying the issue took care of itself with Flynn s resignation.
And then there s Rand Paul, who just told us the truth about why they were so insistent on investigating every last little thing about Hillary, but won t investigate Flynn or Trump despite far more demonstrable evidence of treason.While Paul may have a small point when he says it s not always a good idea to do investigation after investigation, that would really only apply if the GOP was impartially doing its job.They aren t. They never were.
Paul s actual words were: I just don t think it s useful to be doing investigation after investigation, particularly of your own party.
Really.
It s a good idea to waste time, effort and money repeatedly investigating Hillary s emails and her handling of Bengazi, but it s not worth it to investigate real treason when it means investigating your own party?Please.At least he s finally admitted it.
We already saw this with Jason Chaffetz and other Republicans saying they didn t think they were going to investigate the Trump administration s ties to Russia, but Paul just put it out there in the open.Furthermore, it seems he s suddenly quite interested in doing anything else: We ll never even get started with doing the things we need to do like repealing ObamaCare if we re spending our whole time having Republicans investigate Republicans.
I think it makes no sense.
But if Flynn and the president were Democrats, it would make all the sense in the world.
Paul and others would be screaming TREASON!
over and over and setting up special independent panels everywhere to get to the bottom of this.It s possible even likely that they re afraid of how all this reflects on them.
Make no mistake, it reflects badly.
Not only do they look like complete idiots for not stopping Trump during the primaries when they had the chance, but now they look like treasonous hypocrites.
The funny thing is, they d be less complicit in the treason if they d investigate it.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images