Kellyanne Conway got herself into a world of sh*t when she decided to violate ethics rules on behalf of Ivanka Trump s business.
Because now Ivanka is PISSED.On Thursday, Conway whined about Nordstrom dropping Ivanka s product line due to lack of sales and then she desperately begged Fox News viewers to open their wallets.
They are using the most prominent woman in Donald Trump s life, Conway began.
Using her, who has been a champion for empowerment of women in the workplace, to get to him.
I think she s gone from 800 stores to a thousand stores, or a thousand places where you can buy.
You can buy her goods online.
Go buy Ivanka s stuff is what I would tell you.
I hate shopping, I m going to go get some myself today.
This is just a wonderful line.
I own some of it.
I fully I m going to give a free commercial here.
Go buy it today, everybody.
You can find it online.
And by promoting Ivanka s business, Conway violated Federal Code 2635.702, which specifically states:An employee shall not use his public office for his own private gain, for the endorsement of any product, service or enterprise, or for the private gain of friends, relatives, or persons with whom the employee is affiliated in a nongovernmental capacity, including nonprofit organizations of which the employee is an officer or member .An employee shall not use or permit the use of his Government position or title or any authority associated with his public office to endorse any product, service or enterprise.Ethics complaints have bombarded Trump s administration ever since and Ivanka s business is now embroiled in a political scandal, which won t help sales.Despite apologizing to Donald Trump and apparently being forgiven, Kellyanne Conway still had to face Ivanka and the confrontation was reportedly not pretty.According to Politico, A source close to Trump said that his daughter scolded Conway for dragging her brand into an ethics mess and told her not to mention it again on TV.
This was a continuation of a conversation that Ivanka Trump had with her father weeks earlier about leaving her business out of the politics, that Conway wasn t aware of.
So Ivanka took Kellyanne Conway to the woodshed for hurting her company.
And that s just another example of the chaos and infighting that has been occurring inside the White House since Trump took office.
One wonders how long it will be before Kellyanne Conway gets fired.
Because the way she has repeatedly embarrassed herself on television in defense of Trump, that day should be soon, especially if she keeps angering Ivanka.Featured image via Yana Paskova/Getty Images