During the White House Correspondents Dinner Saturday night, President Obama took jabs at pretty much everyone on both sides of the aisle.
This dose of humility is good to keep everyone in check and try to not allow heads to get too large.President Obama made jokes even involving the current Democratic presidential candidates, Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton.With Bernie, the president went after the fact that the Vermont Senator has been distancing himself from the current administration.
Then with Hillary, he joked about the fact that Hillary seems to try so hard to be hip with social media, but still hasn t quite gotten the hang of it.
He said: You ve got to admit it though, Hillary trying to appeal to young voters is a little bit like your relative who just signed up for Facebook.
Dear America, did you get my poke?
Is it appearing on your wall?
I m not sure I m using this right.
Love, Aunt Hillary.
It s not entirely persuasive.
Well, Hillary took to her Twitter account on Sunday to let the president know what she though of his joke.Her response was perfect, saying: Nice job last night.
Aunt Hillary approves.
@potus Nice job last night.
Aunt Hillary approves.
#WHCD -H Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 1, 2016Of course, all of the president s jokes were all in good jest, and no one was immune to criticism.The president did, however, make a joke early on in his speech that definitely got people laughing and thinking that he s throwing his support behind Hillary, or at least he believes she ll be the next president.President Obama quipped: Next year someone else will be standing here in this spot, and it s anyone s guess who she will be.
Clearly cluing us in that he believes the former Secretary of State will win in November.Obama: Next year someone else will be here, and "it's anyone guess who she will be" #WHCD https://t.co/6OZtrfIwim https://t.co/w9u1yCIqQv CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) May 1, 2016All in all, the night was a lot of fun and even a little bit sad knowing that it s President Obama s last Correspondents Dinner as president.
We ll have to wait and see who will be the president for next year s dinner.Featured Photo by Bryan Thomas/Getty Images