White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee-Sanders was the perfect choice to take on the media today following the release of a bombshell video by Project Veritas showing an undercover reporter capturing CNN s Supervising Producer admitting that most of the news they put out about the Trump-Russia collusion is bullish*t!
Early this morning, James O Keefe released the Project Veritas video where reporters went undercover at CNN to investigate the #VeryFakeNews network.
O Keefe said their intent in making the video was to determine the motivation behind CNN s Trump-Russia collusion obsession.
Since the inauguration, CNN has mentioned Russian story nearly 16,000 times.During her press conference today, Sarah Huckabee-Sanders encouraged the room full of reporters to watch the Project Veritas video that exposes CNN as fake news for ratings.
She even took it a step further and noted that while she couldn t confirm the accuracy of the tape, that every American should watch the video.
Sanders appeared to be disgusted as she remarked that if the tape is accurate, then it is a disgrace to all of media to all of journalism.
And furthermore, If the media can t be trusted to report the news, then that is a danger to all of America.
BOOOM Sarah Huckabee Sanders advises ALL to watch Veritas Video where CNN producer admits they realize Trump/Russia is a hoax but dont care!
pic.twitter.com/tng5DUmKq3 STOCK MONSTER (@StockMonsterUSA) June 27, 2017Although panicked fake network hosts like MSNBC s Joy Reid were praising reporter Brian Karem for attempting to stand up to Huckabee-Sanders, in reality, he was no match for the sharp-witted Huckabee-Sanders who claimed that media has gone into a dark place.
One of the Democrat Party s top cheerleaders Joy Reid is no exception.
Here s her tweet:Now following @BrianKarem who was every political reporter today.
https://t.co/yJC2IXDKi4 Joy Reid (@JoyAnnReid) June 27, 2017The video below shows Karem s attempt to defend his fellow journalist s use of unnamed sources and fake news for ratings.
Karem argued that Huckabee-Sanders was inflaming the CNN undercover video story, saying: Everybody in this room is only trying to do their job.
Sarah Huckabee-Sanders blasted Karem as she shot back: I disagree completely.
First of all, I think if anything has been inflamed, it s the dishonesty that often takes place by the news media.
And I think it s outrageous for you to accuse me of inflaming a story when I was simply trying to respond to his question.
:Here s the exchange between Brian Karem and Sarah Huckabee-Sanders:MUST WATCH: White House reporter @BrianKarem pushing back against Sarah Huckabee Sanders and saying what many people have been thinking.
pic.twitter.com/hW49e0tdWY Yashar Ali (@yashar) June 27, 2017