For more than seven years now the right-wing loons have been calling for President Obama and his failed economic policies to give up and go back to Kenya, which if you listen to bumper stickers on pickemup trucks, a village is missing its idiot.
No matter how many times he succeeds, no matter what sort of good deeds he has done, will the bigots of the right to ever see past the color of his skin.Seven years ago, our economy lay in waste.
The banks had failed and the insurance companies that insure insurance companies began preparing us for the worst.
Credit came to a halt.
Home sales plummeted, the construction and service industries disappeared, the working class lost their jobs and the economy went into a tailspin.
All the while your house decreased in value to half of the mortgage balance overnight.
From there to today, which marked the second highest day of trading in seven years.Reuters reports that Wall Street is celebrating a close second only to the peak last May, which was a mere 2 percent higher.
The S&P 500 has been driven up 15 percent as oil prices stabilize and quarterly reports pour in showing profits in almost all sectors.
With home resales rising and the Dow closing at over 18,000, President Obama may have just presided over the worst example of socialism of all time.
It would be overly optimistic to assume it s clear sailing from here, said Alan Gayle, director of asset allocation at RidgeWorth Investments in Atlanta.
The good news has to keep on coming for this market to keep moving higher.
Still tonight on the Trump, Cruz and Kasich trails, the rhetoric of rampant losses in the economy and jobs dwindling away to nothing.
Trump will call the last 7 years terrible, when he knows how close we came to a depression.
Cruz will say we have to reverse everything and take away the health care of millions of people.
Kasich, well Kasich doesn t want Trump to get the delegates he needs to win.
The truth is, no matter what, no Republican will ever give President Obama the respect he deserves for running an administration so obstructed by an entire party with dignity and an effectiveness they ll never forget.Featured image by Bloomberg/Getty Images