As a shock to no one ever, the rally in Raleigh, North Carolina on Tuesday night for presumptive GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump was completely bonkers as he stood at the podium in the red state.
First, Trump praised a barbaric dictator.
The GOP front-runner and former reality show star praised Saddam Hussein for his ability to murder who he perceived to be terrorists without reading them their rights.
Trump supporters applauded the hotel magnate after he made that jaw-dropping statement.
That said, it s not too shocking that an audience member shouted that Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton should be hanged.
That s a rather extreme call for violence considering she hasn t been convicted of anything.Niels Lesniewski of Roll Call tweeted, I can confirm that someone shouted Hang that bitch!
at the Trump rally, in reference to Hillary Clinton.
I can confirm that someone shouted "Hang that bitch!"
at the Trump rally, in reference to Hillary Clinton.
Niels Lesniewski (@nielslesniewski) July 5, 2016Holly Bailey of Yahoo News was at the Trump event, too.
Hang that bitch!
someone in the Trump crowd yells as Stephen Miller speaks about Clinton "putting America in danger re emails Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) July 5, 2016Ali Vitali of NBC News heard the Trump supporter call for Clinton to be hanged again, because a call for murder the first time wasn t enough.While Trump talks about Clinton, once again crowd goer calls out "hang that bitch!"
Ali Vitali (@alivitali) July 5, 2016Another Trump fan screamed at reporters who were covering the rally because yelling in someone s face is always so effective.
Dishonest media, tell the truth!
a guy keeps screaming at assembled media here to cover Trump in Raleigh Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) July 5, 2016Just back from his trip to Scotland, which was more of an Infomercial to promote his golf courses, Trump demonized President Barack Obama for playing golf.
Golf, golf, golf golf, Trump says of Obama s holiday vaca to Hawaii.
Chip chip chip chip" Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) July 5, 2016In the same breath, Donald bragged that he knows more about golf than Bill Clinton.
I know more about golf than he does, Trump says of Bill Clinton.
He says there s no way WJC could have talked about golf that long Holly Bailey (@hollybdc) July 6, 2016We await the bombastic billionaire s praise of Pol Pot, too.
After all, he once praised the Chinese government for the Tiananmen Square massacre in which hundreds of pro-democracy protesters were slaughtered by the military which included 10,000 troops accompanied by tanks.
Trump has an ongoing bromance with Vladimir Putin and he s praised North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
Still yet, Trump supporters love him.This is the GOP presumptive presidential nominee and his supporters on display for the whole world to see.
Please clap.Photo by Sara D. Davis/Getty Images.