The women of The View played the tape of Trump s grotesque remarks about groping women and they unanimously condemned him.The panelists of the show have a wide range of political views from liberal to conservative, but Trump s bragging about grabbing women by the p*ssy united them all against the Republican nominee and his campaign on Monday.Sunny Hostin kicked things off by explaining that she talked to a lot of men about Trump s remarks and even asked her husband and 14-year-old football player son if what Trump said is the kind of things men talk about in locker rooms.
She said that none of the men she talked to said this is typical locker room talk and her son was horrified by what Trump said and confirmed that not even teenage boys talk that way in locker rooms.
Men don t talk about sexually assaulting women, she said.Whoopi Goldberg chimed in by calling Trump s behavior piggish, which Joy Behar said is saying the least.
Sara Haines said his remark turned my stomach and pointed out that men don t make a move on women by groping them.
It s about power she continued.Hostin continued by pointing out that what Trump is bragging about is a crime punishable with time behind bars.
And she would know since she is a former prosecutor who prosecuted sex crimes.
Classic sexual assault, she said.
People go to jail for that.
He wants Hillary Clinton to go to jail?
Maybe he needs to go to jail for sexually assaulting people.
The audience cheered wildly for Hostin s statement, and then Jedediah Bila took her turn.
He s talking about it like he was some kid in a locker room, Bila said.
Yeah, maybe you ll find some stray person in a locker room that s talking like that, but they re not all running for president!
They re not all trying to be the leader of the free world, Donald!
Goldberg noted that four former presidents, two Democrats and two Republicans have all said that Trump is unfit for the office.
Bila then sent a message to Republicans like Paul Ryan who still endorse Trump.
If you don t withdraw your endorsement, you are putting your stamp of approval on this.
Here s the video via Huffington Post.If this were any other presidential election in the past, Trump would have been removed or forced to drop out by now.
But Republicans are so desperate for power that they don t care how despicable their nominee is.
Not only should Trump lose by a landslide in November, but every Republican down the ticket should lose as well.
This election needs to send a message to the GOP that they need to change.Featured image via screenshot