Amateur president Donald Trump left his chair at a post-G-20 summit dinner to walk over and meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin for a second time, but that s another story in itself which has raised eyebrows.
The former reality show star was initially seated next to Japanese First Lady Akie Abe.
Ms. Abe did not speak to Trump for two hours, according to the alleged president who gave an interview with the New York Times, a paper which he has repeatedly said was failing.
So, I was seated next to the wife of Prime Minister Abe [Shinzo Abe of Japan], who I think is a terrific guy, and she s a terrific woman, but doesn t speak English, Trump told Maggie Haberman of the Times in the exclusive interview.
Like, nothing, right?
Haberman asked.
Like zero?
Trump explained that Japan s First Lady didn t even say hello to him.
Like, not hello, Trump told the reporter.
That must make for an awkward seating, Haberman said.Trump said, Well, it s hard, because you know, you re sitting there for Hours, the reporter said.
So the dinner was probably an hour and 45 minutes, Trump added.
I was sitting next to the president of Argentina his wife [Mauricio] Macri nice woman, who speaks English.
And the prime minister of Japan s wife, Prime Minister Abe.
Great relationships, Trump continued.
So I m sitting there.
There was one interpreter for Japanese, cause otherwise, it would have been even tougher.
But I enjoyed the evening with her, and she s really a lovely woman, and I enjoyed the whole thing was good.
But here s the thing: Japan s First Lady does speak English.
In this clip from 2014, Abe reads a roughly 15-minute speech before finishing with a smile, and adding Thank you very much.
The Times Tokyo bureau chief, Motoko Rich, tweeted that Trump s claim was a false note.
A false note here: Trump says that he sat next to Akie Abe at dinner & she speaks zero English: "Like, not hello.
https://t.co/1JHOiWBEAV Motoko Rich (@motokorich) July 20, 2017Looks like the First Lady of Japan pretended not to speak English for nearly 2 hrs to avoid talking to Trump https://t.co/ee9LGHVlDo Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) July 20, 2017Mrs.
Abe s English is better than Donald Trump s, a man who can t form a tweet without misspelling the simplest of words.Photo by Friedemann Vogel Pool/Getty Images.