AP President Donald Trump has told congressional leaders that his hard-line immigration priorities must be enacted in exchange for extending protection from deportation to hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, many of whom were brought to the U.S. illegally as children.Trump s list of demands included overhauling the country s green-card system, a crackdown on unaccompanied minors entering the country, and building his promised wall along the southern border.Many were policies Democrats have said explicitly are off the table and threaten to derail ongoing negotiations over legislation protecting young immigrants known as Dreamers.
They had been given a reprieve from deportation and the ability to work legally in the country under President Barack Obama s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, which Trump ended last month.In a letter to House and Senate leaders released by the White House Sunday, Trump said the priorities were the product of a a bottom-up review of all immigration policies that he had ordered to determine what legislative reforms are essential for America s economic and national security.
These findings outline reforms that must be included as part of any legislation addressing the status of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, he wrote, adding that: Without these reforms, illegal immigration and chain migration, which severely and unfairly burden American workers and taxpayers, will continue without end.
Trump announced last month that he was ending the DACA program, but he gave Congress six months to come up with a legislative fix before recipients began to lose their status.
Trump suggested at the time that he was eager for a deal, telling reporters, I have a love for these people and hopefully now Congress will be able to help them and do it properly.
He d also tweeted that if Congress was unwilling to find a fix, he would revisit this issue!
in six months.
Congress now has 6 months to legalize DACA (something the Obama Administration was unable to do).
If they can't, I will revisit this issue!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 6, 2017