A student at Baltimore s Reach!
Partnership School took a cellphone video of a school resource officer brutally assaulting a high school sophomore on Tuesday, and now the city s top school cop and two others have been placed on leave.The sickening video shows a police officer slapping the teenager in his face three times, kicking him and cursing at him.
Another officer, a female, can be seen standing behind the abusive officer doing absolutely nothing to stop the attack.When officials saw the video they placed the officers and Baltimore School Police Chief Marshall Goodwin on PAID administrative leave until the investigation into the incident can be completed.
Yes, that s right, the cop beat this child and he is still being paid.Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said she was appalled by the officers behavior: As a parent of a Baltimore city school student, I was appalled by what I saw.
The behavior that was demonstrated is certainly something you never want to see.
Certainly not a school officer acting in this way, particularly with a young person.
Meanwhile, the city school system is trying to blame the kid for his assault because he wasn t a student at Reach!
saying, His presence at the school and the series of events before and after the incident are currently under investigation.
His family s attorney Lauren Geisse, however, is saying that is not true: The boy had a right to be at the school where he was an enrolled student.
With respect to refusing to leave the school, the student didn t want to leave the school where he had a right to attend.
Attorney Michael Davey who represents the police officer who is seen hitting the student claimed his client was responding to a call of an intruder on campus and explained away the video by saying only a few seconds of the incident were captured.
As if that somehow makes it perfectly okay that a grown man was hitting and kicking a teenage boy in the face.The school system s CEO, Gregory Thornton is calling the officer s assault on the child unacceptable : I am completely appalled and disappointed by what is depicted in the video.
Our school police officers are entrusted with ensuring the safety of our students and staff, and I know that most of them take this job seriously while maintaining a high level of professionalism.
The behavior in the video is completely unacceptable.
He is absolutely correct.
Frankly, there is absolutely no excuse for a police officer to his ANYONE that way, let alone a child.
And it is appalling that he is still being paid after this.
This kid suffered injuries to his face and his ribs and this guy is allowed to just collect a paycheck while hanging out at home.
WTF is that about?If peace officers do not know how to control their tempers, they have no business wearing a badge.
And if they do lose their temper and hurt someone, they damn sure don t deserve to be paid while the investigation is completed.
That s outrageous.
Featured image via video screenshot