The Democratic Party held a forum for race obsessed nut-jobs candidates who are running to become the new DNC Chair.
The DNC Chair will replace Debbie Wasserman Schultz who was fired (took the fall for Hillary) when it was discovered through leaks in the hacked DNC emails that she helped to rig the primary election against Bernie Sanders to ensure a Hillary win.
For a brief period of time, Donna Brazile was the interim replacement for Wasserman-Schultz, until she was caught passing debate questions to Hillary in advance of the debate while working as a commentator at CNN.It seems that the DNC has had a string of bad luck when it comes to finding an honest person to run their party.
But who needs honesty when you re a Democrat right?
All you need is to be able to effectively pander to minorities right?
I mean, it worked so well for Hillary after all Watch Sally Boynton Brown pander to the minorities in the crowd during a forum that gave candidates a chance to tell everyone why they believe they are the best candidate for the job.
It appears she has a single agenda, to shut white people up.
The funny thing is, there are two black candidates sitting behind her who don t seem to be impressed with her speech until she starts talking about shutting white people down, at which time you can see their demeanor change and smiles can be seen from ear to ear.
8 years ago, this would have been seen as a partisan and unnecessarily divisive speech.
But this isn t 8 years ago.
This is post divisive-Obama and it will take years to unwind the mistrust, hate and division he has created between races that didn t previously exist.https://youtu.be/TCeoC7P7WmoSally Boyton Brown should have been laughed off the stage for her ridiculous claim that a white person is not allowed to say they have black friends without also admitting they re racists .
Instead, the audience and the candidates behind her clap like seals in approval of a false narrative driven almost exclusively by Democrats for the purpose of keeping America divided, as they falsely believe this will somehow be the key to keeping them in power.
It is my job to shut down other white people!
It s my job to shut down other white people when they interrupt.
It is my job to shut down white people when they say they re not prejudiced!