Wow!
If I were Hillary, I d stop sending people to her website during the debates as a way to deflect from actual issues.
They may find out something pretty horrifying like maybe a TRILLION dollar tax hike!
Trillion dollar tax hike Hillary s tax hike proposals will raise taxes on the American people by over $1,000,000,000,000 over the next ten years, based on her campaign s own numbers.Payroll Tax Hike Hillary said she would not veto a payroll tax increase on all Americans should such a bill reach her desk.
She said she would set her middle class tax pledge aside.
This took place Jan. 12 in Iowa, and it s on video:Moderator: Democrats have introduced a plan that Senator Sanders supports that you ve come out against because it is funded by a payroll tax.
If that were to reach your desk as President, would you veto it in order to make good on your tax pledge?
Hillary Clinton: No.
No.
Soda Tax Hike Hillary endorsed a steep new soda pop tax in Philadelphia.
This will cost soda purchasers an extra $2.16 per 12-pack.
Bernie Sanders called out Hillary s violation of her middle class tax pledge: Frankly, I am very surprised that Secretary Clinton would support this regressive tax after pledging not to raise taxes on anyone making less than $250,000.
This proposal clearly violates her pledge, he said.Sanders also said: The mechanism here is fairly regressive.
And that is, it will be increasing taxes on low-income and working people.
25% National Gun Tax Hillary endorsed a new national 25% retail sales tax on guns.
I am all for that, she told the Senate in 1993.
On June 5, 2016 she was asked about her gun tax endorsement by George Stephanopoulos on ABC s This Week.
She acknowledged her gun tax endorsement and did not disavow it, saying she wanted the gun tax money to pay for Hillarycare.
If you have any doubts about her strong desire to impose a new gun tax, watch her face in the video.Doubling of federal excise tax on guns Hillary also endorsed a doubling of the existing federal excise tax on guns.65% Death Tax Hillary is now pushing a 65% Death Tax.
And her own finances are arranged to shield herself from death taxes.Capital Gains Tax Hike Hillary has proposed the most complex and Byzantine capital gains tax regime in American history, with ten different rates.
She raises the top capital gains tax rate from 23.8% to 43.4%.No Corporate Income Tax Rate Relief for Anyone Hillary offers no income tax rate reduction for any business.
The USA has the highest corporate income tax in the world, which kills jobs and makes us less competitive.
Even Bill Clinton understands the need to cut the corporate rate.No Personal Income Tax Rate Relief for Anyone Hillary offers no income tax rate reduction for any American.Carbon Tax Hillary s campaign has opened the door to a carbon tax if she wins the White House.
Democrat Senate Leader Chuck Schumer is also fantasizing about a carbon tax under Hillary, and a carbon tax is part of the official 2016 Democrat party platform.To learn more about Hillary s tax hike plan, visit ATR s dedicated website: www.HighTaxHillary.com