RTFormer congressman Ron Paul revealed a list of fake news journalists he claims are responsible for bogus wars and lies about Hillary Clinton s chances of winning the election.
Journalists from CNN, the New York Times, and the Guardian are included.
This list contains the culprits who told us that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and lied us into multiple bogus wars, according to a report on his website, Ron Paul Liberty Report.
Paul claims the list is sourced and holds a lot more water than a list previously released by Melissa Zimdars, who is described on Paul s website as a leftist feminist professor.
REVEALED: The Real Fake News List https://t.co/1CkOSe25LU pic.twitter.com/lqb9Uze1pi Ron Paul (@RonPaul) November 19, 2016@RonPaul @The_NewRight pic.twitter.com/HntdHZbnkm Stavros (@ubipages) November 19, 2016 These are the news sources that told us if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, he said.
They told us that Hillary Clinton had a 98% of winning the election.
They tell us in a never-ending loop that The economy is in great shape!
Paul s list includes the full names of the fake news journalists as well as the publications they write for, with what appears to be hyperlinks to where the allegations are sourced from.
In most cases, this is WikiLeaks, but none of the hyperlinks are working at present, leaving the exact sources of the list unknown.CNN is Paul s biggest alleged culprit, with nine entries, followed by the NY Times and MSNBC, with six each.
The NY Times has recently come under fire from President-elect Donald Trump, who accuses them of being totally wrong on news regarding his transition team, while describing them as failing.
The failing @nytimes story is so totally wrong on transition.
It is going so smoothly.
Also, I have spoken to many foreign leaders.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 16, 2016The publication hit back, however, saying their business has increased since his election, with a surge in new subscriptions.CNN s Wolf Blitzer is also amongst those named on the list.
In an email from the Democratic National Committee (DNC) released by WikiLeaks, the DNC staff discusses sending questions to CNN for an interview with Donald Trump.Also listed is NY Times journalist Maggie Haberman, whom leaked emails showed working closely with Clinton s campaign to present the Democratic candidate in a favorable light.READ MORE: New leak reveals extent of Clinton ties with US mediaSo-called fake news has been recently attacked by US President Barack Obama, who claimed that false news shared online may have played a role in Donald Trump s victory in the US presidential election.Facebook head Mark Zuckerberg has now said that the social media site may begin entrusting third parties with filtering the news.READ MORE: Zuckerberg hints at third-party news verification to fight fake news on FacebookREAD MORE ABOUT MSM FABRICATING NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire MSM Watch FilesShare on FacebookShare on Twitter