In June of 2016, the disgraced sexual predator, and Hollywood producer, Harvey Weinstein, hosted a fundraiser for Hillary s presidential campaign in Manhattan.
Some of the top celebrities in the business accepted Harvey s invitation to the event.
Celebrity donors who were in attendance at the event included Leo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lopez, and Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick.
Weinstein raised $1.8 million for Hillary at his star-studded fundraiser.
When Hillary was asked if she was planning to give any of the money back or would give it to charity, the Clinton Foundation claimed they would not give back a cent, and that the money had already been spent on other charitable purposes .
We re wondering what, exactly the Clinton Foundation means by charitable purposes ?
Like Chelsea s wedding that was partially funded by the Clinton Foundation?A TV writer and close Clinton family friend says she warned at least three top-level Democratic operatives against allowing Harvey Weinstein to host fundraisers.
A warning that evidently (and to the glee of Fox News) fell on deaf ears, writes Designing Women creator Linda Bloodworth-Thomason in a new Hollywood Reporter op-ed.Weinstein gave thousands and bundled $1.42 million in donations to Hillary Clinton s presidential run, but the former secretary of state has said she had no idea about the producer s predatory ways.Bloodworth-Thomason, who has created political promotional films for both Clintons, said she helped President Bill Clinton pen an apology amid his own sex scandal and that his actions have taxed my feminist conscience but she still loves him dearly.
She says she has long been aware of Weinstein s lecherous ways and is skeptical of those now claiming ignorance.
Some said this despite knowing him for decades, starring in his films and being friends with accusers who starred in his films, she writes.But although Weinstein was at the top of the sexual predator food chain she says the industry is rife with men like him.
These kinds of atrocities against women routinely go unreported and unpunished in the entertainment industry.
The No.
1 casting criterion in Hollywood is that, above all else, an actress must be hot and f kable, she writes.
Page Six