Hey, Paul do you hear that huge sucking sound?
That s the sound of arrogant elected officials sprinting from Washington DC, like US Senators Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Bob Corker (R-TN), as they watch polling numbers confirm their worst fears that they have no chance of being re-elected.
Americans are no longer willing to wait around for you to do the right thing.
We re holding every member of Congress accountable.
If you re not working in the best interests of America and the American worker, you ll be drained from the swamp Breitbart House Speaker Paul Ryan s closed-door announcement of slipping amnesty for nearly 800,000 illegal aliens covered by the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program into an end-of-the-year spending deal comes less than a month after a DACA recipient has been accused of murder.Ryan, according to members of the Republican Study Committee (RSC), is planning to put together a spending deal that includes giving amnesty to the DACA illegal aliens, as Breitbart News reported.
He did talk about the fact that that would be good if we could get ahead of that as opposed to being reactionary, RSC Chairman Mark Walker (R-NC) told the HuffPost following the meeting with Ryan.Two House Republicans confirmed to the HuffPost that Ryan mentioned at the gathering slipping DACA amnesty into the spending deal.Ryan s leaking of a secret plan to attach amnesty to a spending bill comes less than a month after Breitbart News confirmed that a DACA recipient allegedly murdered a high school student in South Carolina.Voters need to ask Ryan why he s so determined to allow nearly 800,000 illegal aliens who are protected by DACA, many of whom were not children when they illegally crossed our borders, and are in fact, members of violent gangs like MS-13, or who have a criminal history in the U.S. but are protected by sanctuary cities or counties.
Paul Ryan has a huge wall around his personal residence in Wisconsin however, to keep the bad hombres out.As Breitbart News s photographic documentation reveals, Ryan s home is surrounded by a tall border fence reinforced by equally high bushes ensuring both privacy and security.
Moreover, the fence is manned by an on-duty agent who guards his property s perimeter.
Upon even the slightest appearance of any unusual activity such as a 5 2 female taking a photograph of the fence Ryan s border agent will deploy into action to ensure the perimeter s sovereignty.Daniel De Jesus Rangel Sherrer, 19, was one of the nearly 800,000 illegal aliens shielded from deportation and given a work permit under DACA, U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) confirmed to Breitbart Texas.Sherrer was charged in connection with the murder of 18-year-old Diana Martinez-Gonzalez, who was found shot to death in a wooded area in the town of Easley, South Carolina.Sherrer is now facing first-degree murder charges, and if he is released from prison at any time, he will be deported.Last week it was also reported that a 5-time deported, illegal alien, Jesus Fabian Gonzalez, was arrested on suspicion of intentionally starting the wildfires that ravaged through Sonoma County.