On Friday, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie shocked everyone and became a Donald Trump fanboy.
In an endorsement speech a day after the 600th Republican debate, he claimed that he believed the billionaire is the only GOP candidate who could beat the Democratic frontrunner, Hillary Clinton, in the general election.
However, the former National Finance Co-Chair for Christie s campaign isn t buying it, and has now pulled her support for the governor.Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman released a statement slamming Christie for his political opportunism : Chris Christie s endorsement of Donald Trump is an astonishing display of political opportunism.
Donald Trump is unfit to be President.
He is a dishonest demagogue who plays to our worst fears.
Trump would take America on a dangerous journey.
Christie knows all that and indicated as much many times publicly.
The Governor is mistaken if he believes he can now count on my support, and I call on Christie s donors and supporters to reject the Governor and Donald Trump outright.
I believe they will.
For some of us, principle and country still matter.
The move to endorse Trump was absolutely Christie s attempt to share the candidate s limelight.
And even though the real estate mogul pretended to be really honered that the NJ governor endorsed him, they way he spoke to Christie after his endorsement proves otherwise.It s also true that Christie has said that Trump is not fit to be President of the United States on more than one occasion.
For instance on August 13, he told Fox News: Donald is a great guy and a good person, but I don t think he is suited to be president of the United States.
I don t think his temperament is suited for that and I don t think his experience is.
When Trump s celebrating 9/11 Muslim lie was all over the news, Christie called Trump a liar and said, But the facts are the facts, and that did not happen in New Jersey that day, and it hasn t happened since.
Do those statements sound like things a supporter would say?Of course they don t, but then again, Chris Christie has always been a liar.
Featured image via video screenshot