Donald Trump is arrogant and narcissistic enough that he probably thinks he convinced black voters to support him.
He is very wrong.As it turns out, black voters are overwhelmingly unimpressed by Trump s pathetic outreach effort.
And Republicans have no one to blame but themselves.For years, Republicans have stereotyped black people as poor people who live in violent neighborhoods and want free stuff.
Donald Trump has made that view the centerpiece of his plea to African-Americans.
You re living in your poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 percent of your youth is unemployed what the hell do you have to lose?
Trump asked during a speech earlier this week.And his message has only strengthened the resolve of black voters to NOT vote for him.The New York Times actually went out and talked to black voters, unlike Trump, who was speaking to an all white audience while telling black people what their lives are like.
I hear him not talking to black people, but talking to white people about black people so they will think he cares about black people, said former Atlanta Daily World publisher Alexis Scott.
The real thing that he s trying to do is to try to protect some of the white vote by suggesting to them that he cares.
He is giving voice to every stereotype he s ever heard, Scott continued.
I heard someone say, It s like he only watches The Wire, and that s what he knows about black people.
National Urban League president Marc Morial wasn t a fan of Trump s depiction of black people either.
It s an inaccurate portrayal of the community that seeks to define the community by only its biggest challenges, Morial told the Times.
Black America has deep problems deep economic problems but black America also has a large community of striving, successful, hard-working people: college educated, in the work force.
Retired postal worker Demeitrus Williams concurs.
Who s he talking about?
he wondered before answering his own question.
I don t know most of the black people I know are educated and live in nice neighborhoods.
Everybody in my family is required to have a degree.
Indeed, characterizing all black people as living in poverty is a huge mistake that is not based in facts.
While the percentage of blacks living in poverty is still high compared to white people, only 26 percent of African-Americans live that reality.And the criticism goes beyond the people the New York Times spoke to.Charlotte Observer columnist Eric Frazier slammed Trump and the Republican Party for trying to sucker black voters into voting for them even though they don t support any of the issues African-Americans care about.
Blacks vote Democrat today because Democrats fought for their votes, Frazier wrote.
The party that once welcomed cross-burning Klansmen did an about-face on civil rights and earned the black vote.Are you fighting to get those votes back?
Nope.The path to do so is clear, if you re interested.
Embrace affirmative action and let racist base voters walk.
Pass criminal justice reform.
Champion black entrepreneurship and the rebuilding of the inner cities.
Reach out to churchgoing black families; their traditionalist social values mirror yours.
In contrast, Republicans have only moved farther to the right into the open arms of white supremacists and are working constantly to weaken or destroy the Voting Rights Act and Civil Rights Act.So what do black voters have to lose by voting for Trump?
Their rights and their freedom, which is why Republicans can expect to continue losing the black vote for years to come.Featured image via Jeff Swensen/Getty Images