Roll Call Democrat Doug Jones drastically outraised GOP nominee Roy Moore for the Alabama Senate race, new campaign finance documents show.Jones raised nearly six times Moore s amount ahead of the Dec. 12 special election to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Jones headed into the final weeks of the race with roughly four times as much money in the bank than his GOP opponent.
Jones raked in nearly $10.2 million compared to Jones $1.8 million.
Jones also spent roughly 5 times as much as Moore during that period, nearly $8.7 million compared to Moore s $1.7 million.The Democrat Party, who up until just recently, was essentially broke, just got some very bad news today from reliable media ally, CBS News.As the majority of Alabama Republicans believe that the allegations against Judge Roy Moore are untrue, he now takes a commanding lead over radical leftist Democrat Doug Jones per a new CBS News poll.The CBS News/YouGov poll, conducted between Nov. 28 and Dec. 1, surveyed 1,037 Alabamians registered to vote in Alabama.
It further segmented the poll results into some results among registered voters and others among likely voters.
Among registered voters, the margin of error is 3.8 percent.
Among likely voters, the margin of error is 4.8 percent.
The results of the election, with Moore leading Jones, were broken down to likely voters.Another part broken down to likely voters was polling specifically about the allegations about Moore.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, a significant number of Alabamians do not believe the allegations against Moore one bit.
Breitbart Despite all of the money Democrats have poured into the race, Alabama voters are not buying the media reports that decades ago, several women were victims of Republican Senate candidate Judge Roy Moore, who they are now accusing of being a sexual predator.
After many of the women s claims were called into question, including the claim made by Beverly Young-Nelson, whose stepson said she s lying about having a sexual encounter with the judge, and whose yearbook that was allegedly signed by Roy Moore has been called into question as a forgery.
And then there s another accuser, Tina Johnson who lost her 12-year old son to her mother in a nasty custody battle, in a case where Roy Moore represented her mother.
It s entirely plausible that Roy Moore s sexual assault accuser, Tina Johnson, had an ax to grind with Moore, the person who was able to successfully prove to the court that Johnson was unfit to care for him.To add insult to injury, only yesterday, President Trump appeared with RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel to announce record-breaking fundraising of over $120 million, which McDaniel attributed to President Trump.Watch: