Donald Trump s idiotic followers may believe that Trump is going to eradicate the Islamic State, especially considering the fact that he threatens to bomb the sh*t out of them every chance he gets, but quite the opposite is actually happening.
According to former CIA director Michael Hayden, who was also the head of the NSA, Trump s anti-Muslim rhetoric is probably helping the terror group instead.
In a recent interview with the Guardian, Hayden explained that the jihadist narrative is that there is undying enmity between Islam and the modern world.
When Trump says they all hate us, he s using their narrative.
He s feeding their recruitment video.
Hayden is correct, no one has slammed Muslims more than The Donald.
No once can forget his comments in December, which came a few days after a terrorist shooting in San Bernardino, California.
Trump s reaction to the Muslim shooters attack was: Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life.
Islam is a religion of 1.6 billion people and Trump threatened to ban every single one of them from entering the United States.
If that s not a major motivator for terrorists to attack America, I m not sure what is.
Even after Trump s horrific anti-Muslim comments, the xenophobia didn t stop.
In fact, it was just the beginning.
Trump s anti-Muslim rhetoric has inspired violence and harassment toward Muslims all over the United States for example, people wearing hijabs are being called terrorist or are being physically attacked for no reason other than their religion.
It s not a coincidence that these attacks were all performed by Trump supporters.
Hayden isn t the only one to recently suggest that Trump s anti-Islamic rhetoric is actually a good thing for the terrorist group.
Just a few days ago, New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman said that the Islamic State would love it if Donald Trump got elected.
Friedman said: They would want someone who they think would do something more extreme than the other, push America back in the Middle East, and therefore inflame the situation in a way that ISIS thinks would benefit them.
Featured image via Win McNamee / Getty Images