A federal judge in Brooklyn, ruling on behalf of the ACLU and two Iraqis detained at New York s JFK International Airport, has placed a stay on Trump s Muslim ban.
The move comes amidst massive protests all over the country, lawyers making sure that those denied entry despite having the necessary paperwork have representation, and more.Two Iraqis were held at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City today, and although they ve been released, many others, including green card holders, people on student visas, people on work visas, and even people on visitor visas, have found themselves unable to enter the U.S.
In some cases they re held at their port of entry (such as the international terminal at an airport), and in others, they re actually pulled off of planes before they even leave their countries of origin.Congress enacted a law in 1965 that prohibits us from discriminating against anyone when it comes to immigrant visas on the basis of their race, gender, nationality, place of residency or place of birth.
This ban is supposed to make it harder for terrorists to come in, but is probably illegal despite being signed by Cheetolini here.It s also likely having the opposite effect of what Trumplestiltskin thinks it will.
As one former CIA agent said on Twitter:I proudly served in the CIA post 9/11.
Fought actual terrorists.
The ban makes that fight harder.
It makes us less safe.
pic.twitter.com/THN70v4bOC Tom King (@TomKingTK) January 28, 2017That goes against everyone who keeps insisting that it s for the nation s own good that we do this.
The fact of the matter is, though, that the former CIA agent is right.
When we alienate predominantly Muslim countries, we make radicalization far easier.
We also make countries want to retaliate, as Iran has done already.Congressional Democrats have gone on record condemning Trump and his Muslim ban:RM @RepEliotEngel s statement on executive action on refugees: https://t.co/hNvbdz8awm pic.twitter.com/KNDBAchjYB Foreign Affairs Cmte (@HFACDemocrats) January 27, 2017These Exec Orders will only serve to embolden & inspire those around the globe who would do us harm.
They must be reversed, immediately.
Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) January 29, 2017We will not allow a Muslim ban in the United States of America.
Here s what I said at Logan Airport tonight.
#NoBanNoWall pic.twitter.com/XqeS9Iy14e Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) January 29, 2017Yet Republicans are oddly silent on this, with the exception of Charlie Dent, whose district has an awful lot of Syrian refugees.
Dent seems to be the only one with any compassion right now.The stay is temporary, and it will be up to the courts whether to make it permanent or not.
Basically, though, what this judge did was halt an illegal and unconstitutional executive order, effectively telling Trump to take his Muslim ban and shove it.Featured image by Andrew Harrer via Getty Images