Steve Harvey appeared on The View and ripped Donald Trump a new one for whining about Saturday Night Live instead of focusing on the presidency.On Monday, the ladies talked about Trump s inability to ignore satire.
As we all know, Alec Baldwin returned to portray Trump in a skit in which Trump repeatedly ignores national security briefings so he can post shit on Twitter.Baldwin s impersonation apparently outraged Trump, so he took to Twitter to whine about it.Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can t get any worse.
Sad Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016Trump was roundly criticized for the tweet because he perfectly demonstrated that he is too thin-skinned and easily provoked to be president and he instantly proved Saturday Night Live s point that he focuses too much on Twitter instead of the important issues facing our country.So when Steve Harvey, who is also a very busy man who hosts a lot of shows, appeared on The View, he was immediately asked to comment on Trump s hissy fit.Harvey pointed out that Saturday Night Live has mocked him many times but he doesn t have time to obsess with that stuff.
Look, do you know how many times Saturday Night Live has done me?
Harvey asked.
That little fat Kenan talked about me.
He done me like I ain t got nothin else to do.
I want to punch him in the face, yeah, but I mean, I don t have time for that.
I m not even the president and I ain t got time for that.
Here s the video via YouTube.Unlike Steve Harvey, Donald Trump is supposed to be preparing for the most important job in the world.
America is not a reality television show where Trump can just walk on set, say a few lines, and then leave until the next day.
The government of the United States cannot be run like a business.
There s a lot that the president has to do and deal with, all requiring different approaches.
There s a reason why presidents go gray while in office.
It is a stressful job and a consequential one demanding one s full attention.
Trump is not giving the presidency his full attention and that is dangerous.
Rather than playing on Twitter and whining every time someone says something about him, Trump should be studying up and that means actually attending the daily intelligence briefings.
Because ignoring those is how terrorist attacks like 9/11 get overlooked.Featured image via screenshot