If you haven t heard about Rep. Steve King s (R-IA) white supremacy tweet by now, you re really not paying attention.
While citing a Twitter account called Voice of Europe that demonized the religion of Islam, King tweeted: Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny.
We can t restore our civilization with somebody else s babies.
Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny.
We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies.
https://t.co/4nxLipafWO Steve King (@SteveKingIA) March 12, 2017Basically saying, in so many words, the only babies needed are white babies.
A classic white supremacist trope that is code for a form of ethnic cleansing.It s outrageous that King has won time and time again in the 4th Congressional District in Iowa, even winning again this past November for an eighth time.
It seems pretty revealing of the voting populace of that district.However, there is one woman who is steadfast in defeating King and bringing sanity and decency back to the 4th Congressional District in Iowa.
That woman is Kim Weaver.
And even though King defeated her in 2016, she never stopped fighting, and is continuing her mission to defeat him in the 2018 midterms.There is only one way she ll win, though, and that is with the help of not only those within her district, but from nationwide support.
After all, Congressional races affect the entirety of the United States because each representative is a vote in Congress which helps determines policy for the entire nation.Working day and night to replace Steve King in Iowa's 4th Congressional District.
All help is greatly appreciated!
https://t.co/i0cM36lvlg Kim Weaver (@KimWeaverIA) September 14, 2016And don t just support Weaver because she s battling Steve King.
Support her because she s a great candidate.
According to The Des Moines Register: Weaver works as an advocate for seniors in nursing homes, assisted living and residential care facilities with the Office of the State Long-term Care Ombudsman.
She also has been a Medicaid case manager and a care provider for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
So her emphasis on issues for seniors comes from working with people who struggle to pay for long-term care or can t find assistance to stay in their homes.She s also a single mother of three young adults: a son with an aerospace engineering degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a daughter in medical school at University of Iowa and a son majoring in geology at Iowa State.
So her concern about burdening the next generation under a mountain of college debt comes from worrying about her own children.
Further: One of Weaver s more creative ideas is an attempt to simultaneously address two problems: college affordability and care for seniors.
She advocates creating a national volunteer program to allow high school students to earn financial credit toward future tuition.
She s hoping that some of those volunteer hours might be involved with helping seniors with cleaning, yard work and other chores so they can stay in their homes.
Everyone seems to be treating Weaver like she doesn t stand a chance, but we have the chance to help her prove everyone wrong.You can help Weaver by going HERE, and then making sure everyone else does, too.
In addition, you can spread the word on social media.
The good thing about Congressional races is that they happen every two years.
No one is safe from being ousted.
No election is a sure thing.
Let s make sure white supremacist Rep. Steve King knows that he has something to worry about in Kim Weaver.Featured Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images Iowa Public Television