CNN probably detests citizen journalists who bust them on their shenanigans FAKE News Alert!
Watch the video and see how the CNN producers plant two reporters right next to each other but a biker that rides through the shot busts them on their split sceeen fake news move Yet another installment of comedic #FakeNews as #FakenewsCNN uses a split screen for reporters standing right next to each other!
#MAGA pic.twitter.com/zWkHcKsYCY TrumpSoldier (@DaveNYviii) November 2, 2017We ve covered other fake news moments from CNN Remember this?CNN CAUGHT STAGING FAKE PROTEST at London Bridge Complete with Muslim Mums Lights, Camera, Action!
CNN tried to manufacture a scene of anti-ISIS protest BY SOME MUSLIM MUMS but failed.
You can hear people laughing off camera towards the end of the video.
You can see British media and CNN correspondent Becky Anderson staging the propaganda for the audience.
It s truly sickening to see the extent they will go to push the false narrative that these Muslim mums were there before the cameras got there!
Unreal!It s all staged!
The media has not only become a weapon of politicians but a propaganda machine to shape the narrative of just about anything very scary!
What is the truth if the news stages a scene and pretends it s spontaneous?
This is the ultimate in fake news!
It s bad enough to shape a news story on CNN by editorializing it but much worse to totally make it up and present it as fact!On Tuesday night, Anderson Cooper was shooting a live interview on CNN when a man ran across the shot yelling CNN is fake news!
This couldn t have been a more perfect time to call out CNN for their ridiculous coverage of just about everything A man was also holding a sign that said CNN is ISIS Remember this?
Van Jones fake cries Mark Dice nails it!
Van Jones on CNN cries over President Trump blaming both sides, and Anderson Cooper, Don Lemon and others looked like they were holding back tears.
The liberal media freakout hasn t been this bad since Hillary lost the election.