If Iowa Republicans have their way, toddlers will be able to carry guns, which makes the state the scariest in the nation.The Iowa House literally passed a series of gun bills on Tuesday, including House File 2281, that if allowed to become law would let kids under the age of 14 carry a gun.
Because what could possibly go wrong?According to Iowa Public Radio,Democrat Kirsten Running-Marquardt asked what kind of gun would fit into the hands of a two or three year old.
I ve got the bill right in front of me, Running-Marquardt said.
It s a valid question.
You re missing the whole point of the bill, replied Johnston Republican Jake Highfill.
I think this is one of the best bills we ve done for second amendment rights.
Current Iowa law prohibits children under the age of 14 from possessing handguns and ammunition, which is a reasonable measure considering 10,000 kids are injured or killed every year by guns, one-fifth of which are accidents.And that s not even counting the accidental shootings of adults by children who handle guns.Democratic Rep. Mary Mascher pointed out that a nine-year old girl had parental and instructor supervision at an Arizona gun range when she accidentally shot and killed the instructor because she couldn t handle the gun.
Unfortunately the instructor and the parents made the wrong decision and someone died, Mascher said.
Every three hours in this country a child dies from gun violence.
And that s not the only example showing why kids should not be allowed to have access to guns.In January 2015, a five-year-old boy killed his little brother with a gun that he found lying around the house.In August of the same year, a four-year-old boy shot and killed his own mother after finding a gun in the car that he thought was a toy.Then there s the 11-year-old boy who killed a little girl because she wouldn t let him pet her puppy.Or how about the three-year-old boy who has to live with the knowledge that he accidentally shot and killed his mom in 2014 after finding a loaded gun under the couch.And then there s the story of a five-year-old boy who shot and killed his little sister with a rifle he had just been given for his birthday.
His parents believed that a child safety feature would be enough to keep the gun from accidentally being fired.The bottom line is that toddlers have no clue what a gun is and lack the physical and mental capacity to handle a firearm responsibly, no matter what the NRA says.
And there are clearly many parents who are stupid when it comes to mixing guns and kids, the results of which are horrifying and heartbreaking.
And you can be sure that there will be more dead kids and parents if this bill becomes law.The bill now heads to the Democrat-controlled Iowa Senate, where logic and reason will hopefully prevail.Featured image via Freakout Nation