Donald Trump is officially the Republican nominee for President of the United States.
Mike Pence is officially the nominee for Vice President of the United States.
According to a new report from the New York Times, guess who will be doing almost all of the work?Hint: it won t be Donald Trump.The report, published today, chronicles just how Trump came to settle on Pence instead of the likes of John Kasich, Newt Gingrich, Condoleezza Rice and so forth.
But several paragraphs concerning former presidential candidate John Kasich shows the true side of Donald Trump, one that Democrats have been trying to warn the American public about for over a year:One day this past May, Donald Trump s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., reached out to a senior adviser to Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio, who left the presidential race just a few weeks before Donald Jr. wanted to make him an offer nonetheless: Did he have any interest in being the most powerful vice president in history?When Kasich s adviser asked how this would be the case, Donald Jr. explained that his father s vice president would be in charge of domestic and foreign policy.Then what, the adviser asked, would Trump be in charge of?
Making America great again was the casual reply.And there you have it.
What exactly does he mean when he says making America great again if he doesn t want to do the only things needed?
Trump doesn t want the responsibility of actually being president, he just wants the title and the prestige.
Instead of taking it upon himself to deliver on his promises, he s going to dump everything on Mike Pence and sit back and relax while the world crumbles (because everyone knows that wall isn t being built).Congratulations, Republicans, you really picked a winner.
He hadn t even decided on who his Vice President would be when he figured out he doesn t want to put in the work to be President.Mike Pence is now poised to become the most powerful V.P.
in American historyAnd Republicans say Democrats are lazy and Democrats disgrace the office of the presidency?
Once again, the GOP is caught in a corner they can t back out of and it s all thanks to Donald J. Trump.On the second night of the Republican National Convention, Trump s youngest daughter, Tiffany, exulted that her father was a hard worker who never gave up, never stopped dreaming, and never stopped achieving.
Well, it turns out he gave up being president of the United States before he has even started.Donald Trump, time and time again, has shown himself to be a lazy, pandering, egomaniacal, narcissistic blowhard.
And, not surprisingly, he picked a vice president with the same attributes.
I can t wait to see how his duped electorate tries to justify this.
They will somehow blame it on Hillary Clinton or President Obama, because that s what Republicans are good at blaming others.If Democrats don t get out and vote, say hello to President Trump eh, President Pence.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images