Hillary was seen passing up a bottle of water in the midst of another one of her coughing fits in front of her press cheerleaders on her new campaign plane yesterday.
Passing up a bottle of water in the middle of a coughing fit would seem strange, but what was even more strange is that she passed up a bottle of water for a glass of water that was handed to her by someone on her staff from behind the curtain.
Pretty much everything Hillary does is done from behind a curtain so the idea that Hillary is likely hiding a serious illness like say .Parkinson s Disease is not really all that far fetched.DOES HILLARY HAVE PARKINSON S DISEASE?As a neurological disorder, Parkinson s disease (PD) has been shown to affect motor skills in the limbs, inhibit muscle coordination, and sometimes contribute to dysphagia.1 Dysphagia is the medical term for difficulty swallowing.
Thickened liquids are often used in the management of dysphagia to improve bolus control and to help prevent aspiration.
A range of starches and gums has historically been used to thicken liquids.
Although thickened liquids improve swallow safety, they appear to have a great potential for unintended physiological consequences.What the heck did Hillary just cough up into her glass during her speech in Cleveland?https://twitter.com/NolteNC/status/773264547813744648Meanwhile a very interesting addition was spotted in Hillary Clinton s motorcade yesterday.
There s a probably a perfectly good explanation for an ambulance being added to her motorcade.
Maybe it s in case Hillary falls off the stage.
She has been stumbling quite a bit and has been seen grabbing on to railings, chairs, tables, or pretty much anything she can get her hands on that helps to keep her upright.
But it s only her health and she is only running for President of the most powerful nation on earth so, what difference does that make right?Watch the great coverage of Hillary s pathetic rally in Cleveland yesterday by this young InfoWars reporter.
The ambulance appears at the 6:40 mark:In case you missed it Watch Hillary spit something eeeeewww!back into her glass of of water and whatever else is mixed in with the water: