Who knew?
Tiffany & Co. just decided to show its hand when it comes to politics.
We re not happy to tell you that the luxury retail jeweler just bought into the global warming scam hook, line and sinker The American jeweler is asking the president to keep the U.S. in the Paris Climate Agreement.The American jeweler took to social media to send a message to president Donald Trump.
Dear President Trump, read the Instagram and Twitter posts.
We re still in for bold climate action.
Please keep the U.S. in the Paris Climate Agreement.
The disaster of climate change is too real, and the threat to our planet and to our children is too great.
The move comes on the same day that the president postponed his decision on whether or not to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate Agreement, reports CNN.
The goal of the agreement is to create a global action plan to put the world on track to avoid dangerous climate change by limiting global warming to well below 2 C, according to European Commission s website.Trump intended on making an announcement before attending the Group of Seven nations summit in Sicily, Italy, on May 26-27, but now, he s going to make a decision after the G7, explained White House press secretary Sean Spicer.Trump has a long history with Tiffany & Co; he named his youngest daughter after the iconic jeweler and the brand s flagship store is connected to Trump Tower in New York.
Following the election, sales at the flagship store tumbled 14 percent in November and December, compared with the same period last year.
Tiffany & Co. even canceled its holiday window unveiling event due to post-election protests around the area.Read more: Hollywood ReporterWhat they re not telling you is this agreement is a HUGE redistribution of American tax dollars to other countries!
So if we are to address the Climate crisis we need to challenge the structural causes of the crisis which lies on unequal distribution of wealth, of carbon, and of power.
Whether it s political power, economic power, or even military power.
-Camille Risler For many years the public at large has been spoonfed the idea that Global Warming Climate Change, is caused by man s excessive release of carbon into the atmosphere.
And that the solution to the Climate crisis was to decrease the production of said gas.Over the past several years the Global Warming fanatics have changed their tune.
Many of us in the new media have been warning about their true motives for year.Now, instead of the climate crisis being caused by carbon emissions, it is being caused by inequality.On Monday, during a press conference at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Paris, Ms. Camille Risler, a representative of the Asia Pacific Forum on Women, Law and Development (APWLD) which is an organization listed as an official consultant to the United Nations Economic and Social Council, stated that the cause of Climate Change is the unequal distribution of wealth, carbon, and power: This is the press conference of the Women and constituency.
It is one of the nine official constituencies of the UNFCCC, and we are composed of 15 women s rights and feminist organizations from all around the world.
So I m going to begin with kind of an overview of our positions and then I will give the floor over to my colleagues that will go more into details of each section of negotiations.I m Camille Risler.
I m from France but I m living in Thailand.
I m working for a feminist network that is called Asia Pacific Forum on Women, Law and Development and I m working for the Climate Justice Program.So what we want to highlight here is that Climate Change is a clear symptom of an unequal and unjust world.
Via: GP