When John Boehner left Congress, he left behind a stench so bad it took a team of professionals and a hefty chunk of change to get rid of it.
No, I m not talking about his obstructionism.
I m talking about the fact that Boehner is a massive chain smoker, and his office reeked so bad that Paul Ryan had to have new carpets, furniture and paint in his new office.Now, Boehner has found a new home, and it can only be imagined that the entire building stinks just like Boehner s old office.
He s now a Class 2 director on the board of Reynolds American Inc, the company that makes his beloved Camel cigarettes.
Yes, his job will be to lobby Congress to help prevent and eliminate those pesky regulations that tobacco companies have to jump through you know, like the ones that say the tobacco companies can t market to children, although a Boehner spokesman spun it to sound like just the opposite.
RAI is striving to transform the tobacco industry through innovative strategies that include speeding the decline in tobacco use among young people and reducing the harm caused by smoking, said a Boehner spokesman.
These are objectives Speaker Boehner supports and looks forward to helping RAI advance through his service on the board.
Source: NPRHere s the video:The reality is much bleaker.
There is a tiny grain of truth in the statement that fewer young people are using tobacco, but one of the things tobacco companies are trying to sell as a safer alternative to tobacco are e-cigarettes, which for children, are even worse than traditional cigarettes, just because the cartridge can be broken and children have been known to swallow toxic doses of nicotine.Not only that, tobacco companies are specifically marketing e-cigarettes to young children, often with ads touting their candy-like flavors.If you recall, Boehner stepped down from his speakership and announced that he would be leaving Congress immediately after a congressional visit from Pope Francis.
He seemed to imply that the Pope had put the pro-life Speaker into a crisis of conscious.
In truth, Republicans wanted him out, badly, but what happened to the man who claimed his life was changed after meeting the Pope?Nothing that the Pope would approve of.
Smoking is still the leading cause of preventable death in this country.
Nearly half a million Americans die from smoking ever year.
While not as many children are picking up cigarettes, hence the panic and the hiring of Boehner, more than 3,200 new smokers each day are younger than 18.
Of those, 2,100 will become addicts.
This is what John Boehner is promoting.
He s almost better back in Congress.
At least there, he got nothing done.
Now, he ll be personally responsible for the deaths of millions and he ll be pushing cigarettes on children.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.