James Pearce, an anti-gun adjunct professor at Southern State Community College in Ohio, made an outrageous, threatening Facebook post on June 13, 2016, that is reportedly under investigation by the proper authorities.
By the way, the post still remains on his Facebook page.
Apparently, making a threat about shooting people up on Facebook is not offensive to the paid censors as long as it s directed at the pro-gun crowd.
A look at his Facebook page will prove that he is unapologetic after making the disgusting remarks and in fact, is calling it a joke.
Funny we re not seeing the humor in these sick remarks: A bunch of us anti-gun types are going to have to arm ourselves, storm the NRA headquarters in Fairfax, VA, and make sure there are no survivors.
Here is the actual post:The Highland County Press reported that Pearce s comments were sent to authorities and SSCC on June 15.Kris Cross, Director of Public Relations for SSCC, told Campus Reform that it is the college s policy not to comment on individual personnel matters, but did offer some general observations of potential relevance to the case.
In general, the college would alert local authorities about any threats that were made known to the college, especially any threats made to students, faculty or staff, she explained.
We have a good working relationship with the police jurisdictions covering each of our four campuses, and trust they would follow their protocols for reporting to other agencies.
As I understand it, a report does not necessarily mean an investigation.
Campus ReformPearce s Facebook post from yesterday leads us to believe no action has yet been taken by the Community College:When asked if Pearce would continue to teach during the investigation, Cross stated, Certainly any criminal prosecution and findings could be a consideration for employment decisions in any matter of criminal conduct.
On June 17, SSCC Security and Emergency Response coordinator Gary Heaton noted that the information had been reported to the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security.
The Attorney General advised [SSCC Vice President] Dr. Roades to take no action until the Feds had completed an investigation, Heaton told the Highland County Press.