Apparently, Donald Trump wanted to be president because he seriously thinks being president makes him immune to lawsuits.
As usual, he s wrong.During his campaign, Trump often urged his supporters to physically assault protesters.
And at a rally in Kentucky in March 2016, Trump did exactly that and it caused a black woman to be assaulted as she was forced out of the venue.
I was called a n****r and a c*nt and got kicked out, University of Louisville student Shiya Nwanguma recounted.
They were pushing and shoving at me, cursing at me, yelling at me, called me every name in the book.
They re disgusting and dangerous.
In fact, the assault was caught on camera and revealed that Alvin Bamberger, Matthew Heimbach, and Joseph Pryor each contributed to the crime.Well, a lawsuit was filed against the men and Donald Trump himself.Of course, attorneys for Trump were quick to try to claim presidential immunity to wriggle out of being held liable for the actions of the three men.They argue that Trump is immune from suit because he is president of the United States.
But that s not true at all and the Supreme Court says so.Back during Bill Clinton s presidency, the high court ruled that a president can be sued for action taken outside of the presidency.
And since Trump was not president in March 2016 when he ordered the crowd to get em out of here he can and will face this lawsuit.U.S.
District Judge David Hale ruled earlier this month that the evidence indicates that Trump is at least partially responsible for the actions of his supporters at rallies.And even Trump s own supporters are throwing him under the bus.Bamberger, who is a member of a veteran s association, claims his actions were provoked by Trump.
Bamberger had no prior intention to act has he did, his attorneys wrote.
Bamberger would not have acted as he did without Trump and/or Trump campaign s specific urging and inspiration.
To the extent that Bamberger acted, he did so in response to and inspired by Trump and/or Trump campaign s urging to remove the protesters.
Bamberge is literally arguing that if he is found liable in court, so should Trump.
And that makes sense.
After all, Trump egged his supporters on every time protesters attended his rallies.
He even once offered to pay for their defense if they roughed up protesters.
So if you see somebody getting ready to throw a tomato, knock the crap out of him, would you?
he said during a February rally.
Seriously, okay, just knock the hell.
I promise you, I will pay for the legal fees; I promise, I promise.
From that point forward, violence against protesters by Trump supporters got even worse.So Trump will have to deal with more lawsuits.
Because no one, not even the president, is above the law.Featured Image: Win McNamee/Getty Images