Dr. Abdul El-Sayed, a liberal Democrat would like to become the nation s first Muslim Governor in a state that s home to the city of Dearborn, with the highest Muslim population outside of the Middle East.
The state of Michigan also made news last year when Hamtramck, a city that for decades was known for it s strong Polish immigrant community, elected its first all-Muslim City Council.
It s probably not that far-fetched that the son of Egyptian immigrants living in a state where tens of thousands of Muslim refugees and immigrants come to live would want to see the state of MI become a Sanctuary State .
My faith is really important to me, as it is for many Americans and Michiganders, El-Sayed said.
But I think we should be asking ourselves rather than how one prays, or what they pray to, we should ask ourselves what [one] prays for and what one hopes for.
While El-Sayed said his Islamic values are at the center of his work as a civil servant, he wants people to know his number one priority is to serve the people of Michigan.But some residents in the state may not be ready to see a Muslim governor.
In the last several years, Michigan has been a hotbed of Islamophobia.
Dearborn, a predominantly Arab-American city in the Detroit metro area, has been a frequent target of anti-Muslim activists, conspiracy theories and fake news.
But El-Sayed doesn t want Michigan residents to be distracted by anti-Muslim rhetoric and violence and he wants people to know that the principles of Islam are what guide his service.
I am running because of the values my Islam teaches me which includes beliefs in equity, the fundamental rights of all people, a belief that we will judge ourselves as a people based on how we treat the most vulnerable, El-Sayed said.
A belief in being good to others fundamentally, a belief in respect and dignity to one s neighbors and one s friends and one s family.
-Business InsiderDemocratic gubernatorial candidate Abdul El-Sayed is starting to propose a progressive platform that includes making Michigan a sanctuary state, providing universal preschool and offering publicly funded health insurance to any resident needing coverage.The ex-director of Detroit s health department unveiled parts of his platform Monday.I love it when the rule of law works #sanctuarycities https://t.co/3X4kJBu4WZ Abdul El-Sayed (@AbdulElSayed) April 26, 2017El-Sayed claims that a Sanctuary State will make Michiganders safer.
As a Michigander, I can assure you that making our state a Sanctuary State will not only make it less safe, but it will cause many people to move away to states who have laws against law-breakers.
(3/3) if elected #gov my job is protecting #Michiganders, that's what #SanctuaryState will do.
Learn more: https://t.co/r56mhirYRB Abdul El-Sayed (@AbdulElSayed) April 24, 2017The sanctuary term has no legal definition and varies in application, but it generally refers to local jurisdictions that do not cooperate with U.S. immigration officials.
US NewsEl-Sayed also made his feelings known on Twitter about a MI lawmaker, Rep. Michele Hoitenga, R-Manton,MI who wants to make Sharia Law illegal in that state of Michigan.
El-Sayed attempts to make the comparison of the 10 commandments and the Holy Bible to Sharia Law.
What El-Sayed seems to be willfully ignoring, is the fact that the United States is a Judeo-Christian nation.Nice try I oppose banning the #TenCommandments and #Bible both came from the #MiddleEast.
#religiousfreedom https://t.co/j7unpQSkiM Abdul El-Sayed (@AbdulElSayed) April 20, 2017