Ivanka Trump s stab at using her dad s name to sell cheap products made in Chinese factories isn t going well.
Not only is it only highlighting the hypocrisy of Donald Trump claiming to bring back jobs from China, according to a new recall order, at least some of the clothing can literally kill you.The Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) is begging hapless consumers to return the nearly 20,000 Ivanka Trump brand scarves they have have purchased recently.
They do not meet the U.S. Flammability Standard and pose a serious burn risk if exposed to heat.
In other words, the scarf around your neck could combust, making your head into a terrifying fireball.
Death by Trump product.The CPSC s spokesperson didn t mince words: This is a dangerous product.
He urged customers to get rid of the scarves immediately.
Trump s business partners at Global Brands Group said it was complying with the recall.Donald Trump has run his campaign on frequent attacks on China and a promise to bring jobs back to America.
He has several times expressed the desire to launch a trade war with the country, despite economists warning it could hurl the world back into a global recession, and possibly lead to something approaching armed conflict.
Experts don t know whether to laugh or cry.
I think in order to qualify as a coherent set of policies, the policies have to not be cartoonish and the policies have to stand some chance of being actually enacted, and I just don t think Mr. Trump s trade policies meet either of those criteria, said Michael Strain, resident scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.But while spiraling the world into economic ruin, Trump will no doubt continue to have personal business dealings with Chinese factories.
After all, he s made a lot of money by paying Chinese workers next to nothing to manufacture cheapo clothing he can sell in American stores.
His entire business model depends on it.This recall is a reminder that Trump s fans are getting what they pay for.
A product made to look classy, but really a cheap imitator with little quality and could quite possibly kill you.
You might even say there is a good metaphor in there somewhere.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images