Yesterday, Trae Crowder, otherwise known as the Liberal Redneck, released an awesome YouTube comedy segment celebrating the demise of Ted Cruz.After his devastating loss in Indiana on May 3, Cruz solemnly resigned from the republican presidential primary race.
While a few of his supporters booed at the announcement, the overwhelming majority of Americans were anything but sad to see Cruz drop out.Crowder devoted a short segment to the topic, beginning his monologue by announcing that everyone s favorite murder-lizard has dropped out of the race.
He goes on to recite the story of how Ted Cruz came to run for president, explaining: The Cruz family spent hours praying about about whether or not he should run, until god came down and spoke to his wife directly and said he should.
Continuing with the story, he says and so Ted hit his knees and offered himself up and said I m your servant lord, use me in this as you see fit.
Now that Ted has admitted that there is no possible way he can ever become president, Crowder surmises what this means, saying: To Ted, the use that his lord picked out for him was to completely destroy the republican party as we know it, while getting dusted by a carny-handed mango man.
It s comedy, but the Liberal Redneck makes some great points in the segment, honing in on the message that Cruz s abject humiliation sends to right wing Christian extremists.That message is clearly ya ll have lost.
Crowder points out that Cruz could not beat a guy who could come out tomorrow and announce Hulk Hogan as his running mate.
But the ultimate message sent to the Christian right by Cruz s butt- spanking is that we re done with this.
Crowder sums it up by saying: We re done with you wasting our time on trivial bullshit like laws about who uses what bathroom and how gay a cake s allowed to be before you gotta call a prayer circle.
We re done.
Watch the video below, courtesy of Liberal Redneck via YouTube.
Featured image via video screen capture via Trae Crowder on Youtube