We all know how hostile the Trump White House is to the press.
They say that anything they don t like is FAKE NEWS and they have even gone so far as to ban critical mainstream outlets from a press gaggle with White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer.
Now, an analyst who used to work with the National Security Agency (NSA), John Schindler, is alleging that Team Trump is actually targeting individual journalists for retribution and they are doing it with the help of Russian intelligence.Learned fm very reliable IC sources that Trump WH, w/help fm Russian intel, is targeting US journalists.
Rough road ahead.
Get ready, peeps John Schindler (@20committee) March 7, 2017Of course, Team Trump would have us all believe they ve never, ever, colluded with the Russians to do anything, but there s an awful lot of smoke where that is concerned already; all we need is the proverbial smoking gun.This really comes as no surprise, no matter how chilling it might be.
The Trump Administration has already been implicated in pushing out a false story to discredit Politico reporter Alex Isenstadt, accusing him of laughing at the tragic death of Navy Seal Ryan Owens, who was killed in Trump s botched Yemen raid.Of course, we all remember Trump s repeated claim both via Twitter and during his speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) that the press is, quote, the enemy of the American people.
This is beyond Nixonian at this point.
Trump and his White House are actively doing all they can to undermine the free press, and even savage the reputations and careers of individual journalists.Considering the spinelessness of the GOP-led Congress, the media our Fourth Estate is really the only check we have right now on this out of control president and his dangerous, incompetent team of authoritarians and wannabe tin-pot dictators.Don t back down, bloggers, reporters, and other newsy types.
It s now ALL of our job to speak truth to power and let all who will listen know just what this White House and this administration is about.
It s not freedom it s complete control and eventual autocracy.
If we stop now, we lose our republic as we know it.
#RESIST.Featured image via Mario Tama/Getty Images