Republicans are delusional if they really believe forgoing a new cell phone will allow poor people to afford healthcare.But that s exactly what Utah GOP Rep. Jason Chaffetz believes.On Monday, House Republicans passed a monstrous bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act which pretty much leaves 30 million Americans out in the cold without insurance.
Republicans stripped subsidies away from low-income Americans and will give them to families who can actually afford to pay for healthcare without government aid.
The bill also wipes out the Medicaid expansion that allowed millions more to obtain coverage.
Furthermore, the bill kills the insurance mandate, which guaranteed that enough Americans would have health insurance that the insurance pool would be able to cover people with pre-existing conditions.
The bill also makes senior citizens pay more for healthcare and defunds Planned Parenthood, which would strip low-income women of the health services they need, including cancer screenings.During an interview to defend his party s evil bill on Tuesday morning, Chaffetz actually had the gall to claim that poor people could afford health insurance if they didn t go out and purchase iPhones.Seriously, he literally used this as an excuse to strip 30 million people of their health insurance.
You know what, Americans have choices, and they ve got to make a choice, Chaffetz said.
And so maybe, rather than getting that new iPhone that they just love and want to go spend hundreds of dollars on, maybe they should invest in their own health care.
Here s the video via Twitter.GOP Rep. Chaffetz: Americans may need to choose between new iphone they just love and investing in health care https://t.co/5Hxwn2uOl5 New Day (@NewDay) March 7, 2017Chaffetz s ignorant remarks make it clear that he doesn t know anything about the cost of healthcare, probably because his healthcare is free courtesy of American taxpayers.As Raw Story points out, the average cost of a health insurance plan is $235 per month while an iPhone costs just $27 a month with a two-year payment plan.In short, choosing not to buy an iPhone will not do anything to help poor Americans afford healthcare.Meanwhile, Republicans like Chaffetz can actually afford to buy their own health insurance because they make $174,000 a year.
But they don t have to buy their own insurance because they get government healthcare along with the best hospitals all on the taxpayer dime.Chaffetz, and every Republican who voted for this bill, is a hypocrite and they should be ashamed of themselves.Featured image via screenshot