Only a few days ago, it seemed as if Donald Trump could not make a gaffe big enough to end his campaign.
Then on Friday, audio of Trump from 2005 was released in which Trump makes violently misogynistic remarks regarding groping women.
It s set his campaign into a tailspin and even his running mate, Mike Pence, is now calling out Trump.Pence made his remarks in a statement Saturday where he wrote: As a husband and father, I was offended by the words and actions described by Donald Trump in the eleven-year-old video released yesterday.
I do not condone his remarks and cannot defend them.
I am grateful that he has expressed remorse and apologized to the American people.
We pray for his family and look forward to the opportunity he has to show what is in his heart when he goes before the nation tomorrow night.
The beginning of Pence s statement is reminiscent of a viral video post made by Republican Senator Mike Lee made after hearing the audio.
Except for the fact that Lee went a step further and pleaded with Trump to drop out of the race.
Two other Republican Senators have called for Trump to drop out after hearing the audio.
While the statement from Pence is written in a manner that positions Trump along the lines as a sinner who might still be capable of redemption, the word from insiders is that Pence is absolutely furious with Trump.
WaPo national political correspondent, Philip Rucker, recently tweeted that a source close to Trump said that Pence is absolutely apoplectic about Trump s groping comments.
A source close to Trump camp told me Pence and his team are absolutely apoplectic, "melting down and "inconsolable.
Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) October 8, 2016This statement from Pence provides more evidence that Trump s campaign is in crisis.
Pence s position as Trump s wing-man is clear.
Pence is supposed to and has been making the case for Trump to socially conservative Christian Republicans, an unfortunate position to be in at the present moment.
There is no way to make a man who caused the entire nation to hear the word pussy on repeat in the news cycle be palatable to the moderate Christian right-wing.
Featured image from Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images