First it was the decision by Target to make their toy aisles non-gender specific.
Now, in their latest decision to appease the LGBTQ-RSTUVWXYZ (Please excuse me, but I ve lost track of the rapidly expanding acronym) community, they ve stripped women and our daughters (and even our young boys) of the ability to use a gender specific bathroom.
Mega-retailer Target Corp. has opened the door today, literally, to the endangerment of children in service of a fake cause.
They have a newly restated policy that says you can basically go into whatever bathroom you want, for whatever reason you want, because inclusivity.From the Minneapolis Star Tribune:Target Corp. made it clear Tuesday that transgender people who visit its stores are welcome to use the bathroom that aligns with their gender identity.The statement by the Minneapolis-based retailer comes amid debates in many state legislatures over restricting public restroom use to the sex listed on a person s birth certificate.While many of those conversations have centered around restrooms in public schools and government buildings, Target appears to be one of the first big-box retailers to take a proactive stance in declaring its position on the matter when it comes to its own restrooms.While they may not be technically public, restrooms in stores are often the most easily accessible and widely available options outside of people s homes and workplaces.Target s position also extends to its fitting rooms.
Inclusivity is a core belief at Target, the company said in a statement on its corporate website.
It s something we celebrate.
We stand for equality and equity, and strive to make our guests and team members feel accepted, respected and welcomed in our stores and workplaces every day.
Like other do-good liberal idiots, Target honchos suffer from the delusion that are making some bold step toward tolerance of an oppressed minority by removing rules dividing the bathrooms by gender.
But make no mistake, it is a delusion, and a perfectly silly one.
It is the same liberal-minded pseudo-hippie social justice warrior philosophy casting aside barriers to entry for bathrooms that simultaneously demand written letters of consent be in the possession of any man seen standing close to a woman.
The same movement that rails against manspreading is perfectly fine with manpeeing, it seems, in a virtually perfect display of the nutbaggery of their entire pretend, college-hobby-turned-pain-in-the-ass-for-normal-people movement .
And yes I said normal, please find a safe space and wet yourself.
But use whatever safe space corresponds with your self-wetting gender identity.Via: Red State