After eight years of being told that Barack Obama is the most divisive president in the history of the United States, Republicans actually elected the most divisive president in the history of the United States.
It seems that the election of Donald Trump is causing more than just a rift between Democrats and Republicans and between white men and everyone else.
It s causing rifts among families and that s no more evident than in the spice wars that s happening between two feuding spice-owning branches of the same family.Penzeys Spices in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin caused controversy when it emailed its customers its owners opinions about Donald Trump.
They weren t positive.
The open embrace of racism by the Republican Party in this election is now unleashing a wave of ugliness unseen in this country for decades, Bill Penzey Jr. wrote in a Tuesday night email to the company s mailing list.
The American people are taking notice.
Source: USA TodayAfter that email, Penzey doubled down on their Facebook page with a post titled Cooking trumps Racism.
Penzey also answered his numerous critics.
Penzey was clear that he wasn t calling all Republicans racist, just the Republicans who voted for Trump:(Y)ou just voted for an openly racist candidate for the presidency of the United States of America.
In your defense, most of you did so without thinking of the consequences of your candidate s racism because, for most of you the heartbreaking destruction racism causes has never been anything you or your loved ones have had to experience.
But the thing is elections have their consequences.
This is no longer sixty years ago.
Whether any of us like it or not, for the next four years the 80% of this country who did not just vote for an openly racist candidate are going to treat you like you are the kind of person who would vote for an openly racist candidate.He also appealed to the people that might be having buyer s remorse, urging them to donate to the ACLU of the SPLC.Still, not all customers are happy, but some noted that Penzey has always been outspoken and for liberals, on the right path.In some people, Penzey s has found new customers:Penzey s sister Patty, who co-owns the Milwaukee-based The Spice House with her husband, is not amused:Yet another awkward Thanksgiving, thanks to our most contentious election since 2000.Featured image via Penzeys Facebook Page.