Former Republican Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich is getting behind a bizarre conspiracy theories that supporters of Donald Trump s failing presidential campaign are latching on to.It involves the tragic death of Seth Rich, a Democratic National Committee employee involved in voter outreach who was shot to death in Washington, D.C. in July.
The murder so far remains unsolved.Latching on to comments from Wikileaks leader Julian Assange that Rich was an informant to the organization, a claim completely lacking facts or any sort of proof, Gingrich said the conspiracy theory was worth talking about.
Appearing on the right-wing Mike Gallagher radio show, Gingrich rolled in the conspiratorial mud: If someone is gunned down in our national capital, we ought to have a pretty passionate interest in knowing why, continued Gingrich.
And if it clearly wasn t a mugging and it wasn t for money, what was it for?
I think just in that sense, as you know I ve written two novels: Duplicity about terrorism and the presidential campaign and the follow-one Treason is coming out.
We have these kind of scenes in there where you begin to realize that there are dangerous things going on in the world.
Perhaps Gingrich is still reeling after being passed over for Mike Pence in the vice-presidential sweepstakes, or more likely he is just continuing his decades-long pattern of pushing the unspeakable.Rich s family has taken note of the conspiracies swirling around the death of their relative, and have released a statement on the disgusting practice: The family welcomes any and all information that could lead to the identification of the individuals responsible, and certainly welcomes contributions that could lead to new avenues of investigation.
That said, some are attempting to politicize this horrible tragedy, and in their attempts to do so, are actually causing more harm than good and impeding on the ability for law enforcement to properly do their job.
For the sake of finding Seth s killer, and for the sake of giving the family the space they need at this terrible time, they are asking for the public to refrain from pushing unproven and harmful theories about Seth s murder.
Gingrich either didn t hear or he didn t care.
Either way, he s defiling the memory of someone s relative for cheap political gain.Featured image via Flickr