Sources say that Chris Christie was offered several positions in Donald Trump s administration but turned them all down.On Sunday, NJ.com reported: The sources said those jobs included Cabinet-level posts like Homeland Security secretary and Veterans Affairs secretary, as well as other posts, like a White House advisory role and U.S. ambassador to Italy.
However, the two sources who spoke to reporters said that the New Jersey governor was not offered the one position he had coveted and ass kissed for after his own bid for the presidency went down in flames: attorney general.The sources said that Christie just didn t think any of the positions he was offered were a good fit for him.
So, at this point, it looks like Christie is going to finish out his second term as governor of New Jersey, which ends in January of 2018.Christie and Trump have been friends for more than a decade.
When Christie s own White House dreams went up in smoke, he quickly fell in line behind Trump.
Christie was put in charge of Trump s transition team in May and for a while, it looked as if he might be chosen as Trump s running mate.A few weeks ago, shortly after Trump won the election, Christie announced that he would be serving out his final term as New Jersey governor.
For some reason, people think I m equivocal about this, the governor said on Nov. 29.
And I m not.
I m completing my term.
But Christie then began lobbying to be appointed as chairman of the Republican National Committee, but he was apparently not offered that position either.
In a report last week, NJ.com said, he and Trump decided mutually that he would not assume the job, said the sources, who requested anonymity to discuss the scenario candidly.
One source close to Christie said Trump s team is continuing to talk to the New Jersey governor, a longtime Trump friend and adviser, about various other positions in the incoming administration.
According to one source, current RNC Chairman Reince Priebus would like to name his own successor.
A source close to the NJ governor said that Christie is really at peace with how things have turned out.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images