As schools across the nation are fighting science, schools in Portland, Oregon are giving a big middle finger to politically motivated science denial text books and making sure that everything that students read in school says that yes, climate change is real, and yes, it s caused by humans.On Tuesday, the school board passed a unanimous resolution that requires that all text books that mention climate change mention it as fact, not as theory.
The books must also say that humans caused it.In testimony to the board, Bill Bigelow, a former Portland teacher, told district officials that we don t want kids in Portland learning material courtesy of the fossil fuel industry.
Bigelow said that material that treats climate change as anything other than fact is published by companies making concessions for fossil fuel companies.
He pointed to words such as might, may and could in educational materials.Source: Oregon LiveConservatives, naturally, are flipping out, saying that this move is political, when really, it s the other side that s all about politics over science.Portland public schools ban textbooks that cast doubt on climate change https://t.co/PciB5gBemASchool Board playing liberal politics.
Jim Pond (@PondJim) May 22, 2016 Welcome to the public school system, where kids are not allowed to see opposing view points https://t.co/UEOHfj2NPh A.N.T.S (@A_N_T_S_) May 22, 2016Next: Book burnings by Brownshirts in downtown Portland https://t.co/Ux1XK0eTWW John Cereghin (@Pilgrimway) May 21, 2016 Not an Onion story: Portland School educators ban science books that don t agree w/ man made global warming.
https://t.co/tuiDqxB4dV #AGW Victoria Taft (@VictoriaTaft) May 21, 2016Can t win the argument?Ban opposition:Oregon Local News -Portland school board bans climate change-denying materials https://t.co/pkkz2LoONI Dillon (@000Dillon000) May 20, 2016Wacko preacher Bryan Fischer went Bizarro World: Flat-earthers on Portland school board ban science.
Galileo would be unimpressed.
https://t.co/YLrUk9INq1 Bryan Fischer (@BryanJFischer) May 21, 2016Is the Portland school district being political?
Not really.
There is a scientific consensus and even a voter consensus, that climate change is real and man-made.
Beyond that, what is the benefit to making it up?
There s no such thing as Big Green Energy, except maybe for all the big energy companies that see the writing on the wall and are themselves investing in green energy.
In other words, if there s a political conspiracy, there has to be someone who benefits, and the parties who benefit, to make the conspiracy believable, must be more powerful than those on the other side.
That s simply not the case with climate change.On the other side of the debate, you find Republican politicians, and you find the big money, led by the Batman villains known as the Koch Brothers.According to Greenpeace, the Koch brothers have spent nearly $80 million in attempting to convince Americans that climate change is a hoax, perhaps perpetrated by Al Gore (really, does that make any sense whatsoever?
).Here s more about it:Like all Batman villains, the Koch brothers are smart.
They know that the best way to create sympathetic voters is to get them young, and get them young is what they do.
While the brothers don t write textbooks, their hands are all over the books that go to schools throughout the country.
The textbooks attempt to rewrite history, give students an anti-government bias and yes, teach them that climate change is a hoax.
That s the real political agenda, but it all happens behind the scenes, so voters don t notice.
That s why a school board meeting might seem a lot more political than two billionaires working quietly in the background, destroying the planet.Featured image via Joe Raedle with Getty Images.