Randy Bryce, known as @IronStache on Twitter, launched a campaign to oust Paul Ryan from Wisconsin s 1st District.
Bryce is a union ironworker who has been campaigning for all of one day, and he s already raised $100,000.
That is a lot for a new face who s a Democrat living in Republican-land and running in a district that s gone to Paul Ryan every two years since 1999.Bryce isn t just a union ironworker in Republican-land, Wisconsin, though.
He s an Army veteran who enlisted right after high school, and then worked his way up to being an ironworker through apprenticeship.
His mother suffers from multiple sclerosis, his father is in an assisted living facility, and Randy himself is a cancer survivor.
He s campaigning primarily on healthcare right now, and he says on his website: What Paul Ryan and the Republicans are doing to take health care away from millions of us, to make it cost more and cover less, and to allow the protections we ve gained to be stripped away it s just unacceptable.
Bryce has an uphill battle to fight.
Ryan is very well-connected both in the 1st District and across America.
However, Bryce will work to tie Ryan to Donald Trump as much as possible, working off Democrats hopes that the Trump effect will help flip Congress next year.But it may not be that terrible a climg.
Paul Ryan is already wildly unpopular around the country, with an approval rating below 30 percent.
That could very well pull down his popularity in his own district.
He s also starting to get a reputation for making every excuse in the book for Trump.
Regarding obstruction of justice, Ryan lamely claimed that Trump is new and doesn t know what s appropriate and what s not when it comes to interacting with various agency heads, particularly those in the law enforcement and intelligence communities.
Ryan gave him a pass as though he s a little child navigating his way through the world for the first time.He s also confident that Trump will approve of the massively unpopular GOP healthcare bill whatever form that ends up taking and once again blasted the ACA while claiming that their bill is ever so much better.Ryan is almost inextricably linked to Trump right now, and as Trump s base shrinks, so will Ryan s. What Bryce is doing and clearly, what many are hoping he can do is taking advantage of the possibility that a hole will open up in the 1st District because of Trump.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images