Ah, Trump and voter fraud.
The subject that he can t let go because, on his warped planet, he s so beloved by everyone that there s no way he lost the popular vote.
Donald Trump is just not a loser in any way, shape or form.
So why is it that so many people around him are guilty or caught up in one of the things he himself decries: Being registered to vote in more than one state?
His chief strategist, Steve Bannon, is guilty of that, which is bad enough.What s worse is that the person Trump is getting his 3 million people voted illegally and if it weren t for them I d have won everything information from is likewise registered to vote in multiple states.The Associated Press has learned that Gregg Phillips, who praised True the Vote for allegedly uncovering thousands of duplicate records and registrations of dead people, is registered to vote in Alabama, Texas, and Mississippi.
Three states.This is proof that voter fraud is rampant?
Har de har har don t make us laugh too hard.
It hurts.Now, Gregg Phillips isn t exactly a unique name.
What the AP found, though, was that all three of these registrations had identical Social Security numbers.
That makes it a little harder to claim that these registrations are to three different people who all happen to have the same name.This is the guy who tweeted, back in November, that he had evidence of three million people voting illegally and then never provided or published said evidence, but Trump jumped on it anyway, which is dangerous as hell.Phillips is on Twitter now, pretending that it s voter fraud in every case except for his:AP just wrote and said I am still registered to vote in MS, a place I haven t lived for 20 years.
Makes my point, elections are broken.
Gregg Phillips (@JumpVote) January 30, 2017While that s a fair point, what Phillips totally fails to mention (because of course he does) is that it also illustrates the fact that being registered to vote in multiple states isn t indicative of voter fraud at all.
Instead, it shows that the states aren t psychic.
Most people registered to vote in multiple states didn t do that intentionally they moved away (or died) and the states didn t realize that.All these people vote multiple times except for the two anal pustules known as Trump and Phillips.Sure.
Right.
There is no proof there, and if Trump wants to pretend there is, then he s got to find better evidence than one man who s registered to vote in three states.Trump and his little bestie here (at least, insofar as voter fraud is concerned) need to shut their goddamn mouths on this once and for all.Featured image by Andrew Harrer via Getty Images