Mike Pence took time off from organizing Trump s transition efforts to catch a musical on Broadway but if he thought he would have a relaxing evening, he was wrong.As the vice president-elect made his way to his seat Friday night, he was greeted with a loud chorus of boos.
As he waved to the crowd, there was a smattering of applause but the majority present made it clear that he was not welcome.
Naturally, the internet didn t let him live this down:At #Hamilton.
Mike Pence is here and the entire theater just booed him.
Shannon (@TheStagmania) November 19, 2016Mike Pence getting lustily booed at "Hamilton" is obviously the endpoint for this goddamn election cycle Simon Maloy (@SimonMaloy) November 19, 2016Just heard from friend in NY that Mike Pence is seeing Hamilton tonight and was BOOED by the theatre when he walked in Marc Snetiker (@MarcSnetiker) November 19, 2016Unreal scene here Mike Pence walks in and there's a massive mix of cheers and boos.
pic.twitter.com/GVZ5L67mA3 Noah Coslov (@NoahCoslov) November 19, 2016Pence, I feel ya.
If a homophobe who wants to electrocute gays can't go to musical without getting booed, nothing's sacred anymore #Hamilton Eric John (@EricJohnThe1st) November 19, 2016So apparently Pence was booed when he showed up at Hamilton and uh what did he expect?
Mario (@TomatoGrandpa) November 19, 2016Reminder that the current star of Hamilton is the incomparable Javier Mu oz, an openly gay, openly HIV-positive actor.
Pay attention, Pence.
Marc Snetiker (@MarcSnetiker) November 19, 2016Mike Pence got booed at a performance of Hamilton.
Weird, it's like gay people don't love raging homophobic bigots.
Who'da thunk it?
Charisma Black Hole (@MichaelMcGurran) November 19, 2016The best part of Pence's Hamilton experience being ruined for me is knowing that I, a brown queer, have better seats than he does.
Delete 2016 (@twittysuch) November 19, 2016According to reports, the crowd spent the entire night trolling our future vice president:I'm at #Hamilton and so is Mike Pence.
Crowd booed him like crazy, and gave a standing O at the line "immigrants we get the job done" 1/2 Christy Colburn (@christymoose) November 19, 20162/2 Crowd went NUTS at King George's lines "when people say they hate you" & "do you know how hard it is to lead?"
He had to stop the song.
Christy Colburn (@christymoose) November 19, 2016During "You'll Be Back (Reprise)" they had to keep pausing the song while people jeered Pence on every line.
https://t.co/ZSIG7qnfiM Shannon (@TheStagmania) November 19, 2016Pence, easily one of the worst people to be elected Vice President in our nation s history, can expect tonight to become the norm.
With his administration filling its ranks to the brim with white supremacists, Islamophobes, and other assorted bigots and pushing Muslim bans and other terrifying policies, it is a virtual certainty that neither Pence nor Trump will be able to step foot in public without being met with some form of opposition,Watch him get booed below:#Hamilton.
Mike Pence Booed #TrumpProtest #NotMyPresident pic.twitter.com/bFqUpksY4h MOURNING IN AMERICA (@irise4u2c) November 19, 2016Featured image via getty Images/Steve Pope