Donald Trump thinks the healthcare bill Republicans passed to repeal the Affordable Care Act is wonderful and promised even more such bills to come.
We are sooo screwed.After years of trying to repeal the landmark healthcare law, House Republicans passed a bill on Monday that they dubiously named the American Healthcare Act.
Except that there is nothing American about it, nor does it provide healthcare to anyone who needs it.The monstrous bill pretty much leaves 30 million Americans out in the cold without insurance.
Republicans stripped subsidies away from low-income Americans and will give them to families who can actually afford to pay for healthcare without government aid.
The bill also wipes out the Medicaid expansion that allowed millions more to obtain coverage.
Furthermore, the bill kills the insurance mandate, which guaranteed that enough Americans would have health insurance that the insurance pool would be able to cover people with pre-existing conditions.
The bill also makes senior citizens pay more for healthcare and defunds Planned Parenthood, which would strip low-income women of the health services they need, including cancer screenings.Overall, the bill a big fuck you from Republicans to the American people.
So, of course, Trump loves it.Trump crowed about the Republican bill and then attacked the Affordable Care Act by claiming that it is imploding.However, it s only imploding because Trump and Republicans are sabotaging it so it doesn t work the way it should.Our wonderful new Healthcare Bill is now out for review and negotiation.
ObamaCare is a complete and total disaster is imploding fast!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 7, 2017Trump then tweeted that this bill is only the first phase of his plan to destroy healthcare in this country.
And he actually thinks that getting rid of state lines will bring the cost of healthcare down.Don t worry, getting rid of state lines, which will promote competition, will be in phase 2 & 3 of healthcare rollout.
@foxandfriends Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 7, 2017And apparently, drug prices is one of his targets.I am working on a new system where there will be competition in the Drug Industry.
Pricing for the American people will come way down!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 7, 2017Knowing Trump, that means Americans who rely on affordable and accessible pharmaceuticals are about to get hammered.This is a really bad bill for the American people.
So bad, in fact, that four Republican senators are prepared to oppose it, which means it will be dead on arrival in the Senate.
A majority of Americans support the Affordable Care Act and the protections and benefits it provides.
The uninsured rate is at an all-time low and more people have access to healthcare than ever before.
Trump s plan will only hurt tens of millions of Americans while setting healthcare in this country back by decades.Featured image via Jim Lo Scalzo Pool/Getty Images