If you watched the most recent Democratic debate between candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, you may have noticed that things got a bit brutal, with the crowd noises even seeming reminiscent of a WWE showdown.Clearly noticing this were the folks over at Saturday Night Live, who literally had Hillary (played by Kate McKinnon) and Sanders (played by Larry David) going head to head.
"Are you feeling THAT Bern?!"
#SNL pic.twitter.com/oRXmSAN2Tz Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) April 17, 2016During the SNL reenactment of the debate they had a members of the audience ask the candidates questions, and since the debate took place in New York City, one of the trusty citizens was Elaine Benes from the hit show Seinfeld played by this week s SNL host Julia Louis Dreyfus, who perfectly reprised her famous role.Elaine wanted to know how exactly Bernie was going to break up the banks, and lets just say, she wasn t too fond of his answer.
Bernie answered: Once I m elected president, I ll have a nice schvitz in the White House gym, I ll sit them down and yada yada yada, they ll be broken up.
With Elaine replying: You can t yada yada at a debate.
Of course, yada yada yada also being a famous line from Seinfeld and seeing Julia Louis Dreyfus back with Larry David who co-created the show alongside Jerry Seinfeld was definitely amazing.Elaine, clearly annoyed, asked Hillary: Doesn t it suck to be the only girl in a group of guys?
And when Hillary said yes, Elaine added, Don t worry, because everyone thinks you are by far the funniest I mean, the most qualified.
There were also questions from Rachel Green from Friends, but Elaine had one more question for Sanders: Senator Sanders, you believe the super-rich should pay more in taxes?
But wouldn t that be bad for actors who made a lot of money on a certain very successful sitcom?
even worse for the person who created that sitcom?
Of course, speaking of herself and David.David s Sanders responded: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you should vote for her.
All in all, it was definitely a lot of fun to see Elaine back in action.
Now, if only she would do her infamous dance.Featured image via video screen capture