Ever since his GOP rivals dropped out of the presidential race and he became the presumptive Republican nominee, Donald Trump has stopped attacking his fellow Republicans and focused his childish attacks on his biggest competition Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton.
And of course, he s doing it the only way he knows how by being a misogynist and attacking her marriage.
The only problem is, Trump is too stupid to fully grasp the full hypocrisy of what he s doing.It s been widely reported that in the past, Trump was somewhat close to the Clintons he even invited them to his (third) wedding.
But what many don t realize is that the very attacks Trump is making on the Clintons are things that Trump previously defended the political power couple against.No one pointed this out better than Chuck Todd on Wednesday morning, when he appeared on NBC s Today to call Trump out for being a walking contradiction.
It was already an amazing segment, with Today showing some footage of Trump calling Paula Jones, a woman who accused former president Bill Clinton of sexual harassment years ago, a loser.
The show also aired an old video of Trump saying that the way HE treated women would prevent him from being president if he were to run.
In a statement that has come back to haunt him, Trump had said, Can you imagine how controversial I d be?
You think about (Bill Clinton) with the women, how about me with the women?
Can you imagine?
In the past, Trump had also downplayed Bill s Monica Lewinsky scandal, saying, Look at the trouble Bill Clinton got into, with something that was totally unimportant and they tried to impeach him, which was nonsense.
But now that the stakes are high and Trump needs to defeat Hillary, his attitude has done a complete 180 and Todd isn t letting him get away with it.
To show just how insane it is that Trump has continued to slide by with voters despite his lies, Todd said: I don t know why people give him a pass on this.
I mean, I asked him, I said what Trump do we believe?
What you said about Hillary Clinton five years ago, or what you say about her now?He has contradicted every single attack he s made on the Clintons.
You can find sound to contradict it.
It doesn t touch him.
Todd also encouraged Hillary to start fighting back against Trump s attacks, and to leverage Trump s own mistakes to destroy his chances of getting the White House.
I think he s counting on this, that the Clintons don t want to engage him on this.
So he thinks he s got free rein to do it.If (Hillary Clinton) can make the case that, you know what, he s just like every other politician.
That is the most dangerous description you can have if you re Donald Trump it just hasn t taken hold.
You can watch Todd take down Trump below:Featured image is a screenshot