The NFL was able to take a stand when it comes to the Cowboys attempt to honoring slain police officers in their hometown, but when an NFL player posts an ISIS type execution of a police officer on social media, they can t seem to find their voice to express their disapproval The NFL has denied the Dallas Cowboys request to wear the Arm-in-Arm decal on their helmets for Saturday s preseason opener against the Los Angeles Rams.The Cowboys had unveiled the decal at an emotional start to their first padded practice of training camp, when they walked arm-in-arm on the field with Dallas police officials, including police chief David Brown, Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings and the families of the police officers slain in the line of duty last month.The Cowboys, who wear the decal on their helmets during training camp, knew they would not be able to wear the decal for the regular season but had hoped to wear it in the preseason.
We certainly understand the position the league takes on this, but it won t diminish our support for that concept of unity and supporting our police force and what they do to make our lives better on a daily basis, coach Jason Garrett said.
That arm-in-arm image is something that we really believe in.
You heard me talk about it a couple weeks back.
What we re trying to do as a football team is build a team that s close.
We talk a lot about unity and having each other s backs, and certainly they embody that.
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has this to say about the decal controversy:Tight end Jason Witten spearheaded the idea of the players honoring the police and the families.
While a little disappointed, Witten believes the gesture at the start of camp can have a long-lasting impact.
What s really important is what we tried to do, and that s to unite that community, our community, and show that support for those families and really honor the leadership of our city, Witten said.
I think that decal not being on the helmet is not going to stop that.
It s going to continue to do that not only now but in the future as we move forward.
As players and an organization that is something we re going to continue to support.
ESPNWe reported about Cleveland Brown s player, Isaiah Crowell s Instagram post on July 11, 2016.
While Cleveland Brown s acknowledged his post, the NFL has yet to make a public admonishment or levy a fine against him for making what was akin to a terrorist threat on social media against law enforcement.Here is a screen shot of the Instagram post that Crowell posted and then removed:Under the vile picture he posted in ebonics: They give polices all types of weapons and they continuously choose to kill us.
100percentfedup.comCleveland Police force was not taking this lightly.
Here s how they replied to Crowell s vile post:Crowell got blasted for posting an illustration last week of a cop getting his throat slashed by a masked person.
He posted it on Wednesday after Alton Sterling and Philando Castile s deaths, but the day before 5 Dallas officers were shot and killed.
The running back deleted the post and the Browns demanded he publicly apologize, which he did.But Stephen Loomis, President of Cleveland Police Patrolmen s Association, thinks the store-bought apology isn t enough.
He needs to go to Dallas, help the families who lost their loved ones last week, write them a check, look them in the eyes and give a heartfelt apology.
Loomis says Crowell s post was as offensive as putting a picture of historical African-American men being hung from a tree in the 60s.
He adds that if Crowell doesn t go to Dallas and make a donation, I will pull Cleveland officers, sheriffs, state troopers out of First Energy Stadium this season if he doesn t make it right.
As for Crowell admitting he was wrong and acted out of rage Loomis says, You re a grown ass man, and you claim you were too emotional to know it was wrong?
Think we ll accept your apology?
Kiss my ass.
TMZ