As the RNC rears its ugly head, the Trump campaign has finally released the list of who will be speaking at this years gun-free gathering of racists, homophobes and fascists.
And, as expected, those who will be speaking are a coveted group of losers within the dying party that is the GOP.
Not only does this year s convention not feature any winners like Tom Brady or Ben Roethlisberger like Trump hoped it would, it does feature the likes of Jerry Falwell, Pam Bondi, Sheriff David Clarke, and the whole Trump family.More specifically, here is who will be included:Pastor Mark Burns Phil Ruffin Rep. Ryan Zinke (Mont.)
Pat Smith Mark Geist John Tiegen Rep. Michael McCaul (Texas) Sheriff David Clarke Rep. Sean Duffy (Wis.) Darryl Glenn Sen. Tom Cotton (Ark.)
Karen Vaughn Former Arkansas Gov.
Mike Huckabee Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani Melania Trump Sen. Joni Ernst (Iowa) Kathryn Gates-Skipper Marcus Luttrell Dana White Arkansas Gov.
Asa Hutchinson Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge Michael Mukasey Andy Wist Sen. Jeff Sessions (Ala.) Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn Alex Smith House Speaker Paul Ryan (Wis.) Rep. Kevin McCarthy (Calif.) Kerry Woolard Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (W.Va.) Dr. Ben Carson Republican National Committee Co-Chair Sharon Day Natalie Gulbis Kimberlin Brown Antonio Sabato Jr. Peter Thiel Eileen Collins Sen. Ted Cruz (Texas) Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) Michelle Van Etten Lynne Patton Eric Trump Harold Hamm Rep. Chris Collins (N.Y.) Brock Mealer Rep. Marsha Blackburn (Tenn.) Oklahoma Gov.
Mary Fallin Darrell Scott Lisa Shin Florida Gov.
Rick Scott Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus Tom Barrack Ivanka Trump Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi Jerry Falwell Jr.
Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Chris Cox Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.) Tiffany Trump New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie Donald J. Trump Jr. Wisconsin Gov.
Scott WalkerNo winners and very few elected officials representing the Republican Party.
While the Democrats have a former president and a current sitting president and vice president, not one former Republican president could be seen at the podium this year and neither are hopefuls like McCain, Romney or Palin (apparently Alaska is too far from Ohio to attend).
That should say everything that needs to be said.Trump s festival of losers will be about as good as Clint Eastwood s empty chair.
Those who are hostile to blacks affected by police brutality (David Clarke), who have cheated on their wives (Gingrich), and those who are hostile to gays (almost everyone) and Muslims (Flynn) will be the one s appealing to the conscience and logic of America.They even have a guy speaking Ted Cruz who refuses to endorse the nominee.This will be one interesting convention.
The only thing that s missing is Phil Robertson.Featured image via Sarah D. Davis/Getty Images