No wonder we ve had the worst Democrat President in the history of the United States for 7 long years!GOP Consultant Rick Wilson says GOP establishment needs to put a bullet in Trump s head.Wilson has also hurled insults at Trump supporters the past few months.Breitbart reported: On Tuesday evening, establishment Republican consultant Rick Wilson said the GOP establishment donor class must find a way to put a bullet in GOP frontrunner Donald Trump.In an interview with MSNBC s Chris Hayes, Wilson conceded that Trump is still a very powerful force right now because he appeals to part of the of the conservative base that Wilson said was activated by his nativist message.
Wilson insisted that the donor class can t just sit back on the sidelines and say, oh well, don t worry, this will all work itself out.
They re still going to have to go out and put a bullet in Donald Trump, Wilson said.
And that s a fact.
Republican establishment figures who have underestimated Trump since he entered the race are reportedly looking to raise millions to try to derail Trump and knock him out of the race.
Wilson added that the Republican establishment must figure out a way to find a candidate who can successfully post up against Hillary Clinton because neither Donald Trump or Ben Carson is ready to go up against the Clinton machine.
Wilson claimed that Trump and Carson are obviously not ready for primetime.
During a September CNN interview, Wilson told Erin Burnett that Trump could eat a live baby on television and Trump s supporters would think it s the greatest thing in America.
He has also demeaned Trump s supporters as low-information rubes and has likened them to post-rational conspiracy theorists.In an interview with CNN s Don Lemon, Wilson said Trump s message doesn t have to make sense for his supporters to back him and compared Trump to someone who is a conspiracy theorist like your cranky uncle at Thanksgiving who always has a theory about the Bilderbergers or the World Bank, or the IMF, or the Trilateral Commission.
Today Rick Wilson attacked Ann Coulter for supporting Donald Trump.
Via: Gateway Pundit