President Trump s Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos spoke today at George Mason University s Virginia campus.
DeVos ignited a firestorm when she announced the end of yet another case of an unlawful overreach by Barack Obama, that affected every college student by stripping them of their right to due process in sexual assault cases.DeVos explained her reasoning for reversing an unfair and impractical solution to sexual assault on campuses: Survivors, victims of a lack of due process, and campus administrators, have all told me that the current approach does a disservice to everyone involved.
A student says he or she was sexually assaulted by another student on campus.
If he or she isn t urged to keep quiet, or discouraged from reporting it to local law enforcement, the case goes to a school administrator, who will act as the judge and jury.
The accused may or may not be told of the allegations before a decision is rendered.
If there is a hearing, both the survivor and the accused, may or may not be allowed legal representation.
Whatever evidence is presented may or may not be shown to all parties.
The notion that a school must diminish due process rights to better serve the victim only creates more victims.
A better way also means we shouldn t demand anyone become something they are not.Students, families, school administrators are generally not lawyers, and they re not judges.
We shouldn t force them to be so for justice to be served.The era of rule by letter is over.
Through intimidation and coercion, the failed system has clearly pushed schools to overreach.
With the heavy hand of Washington tipping the balance of her scale, the sad reality is that Lady Justice is not blind on campuses today.
Watch:Liberals immediately attempted to twist the facts in this decision to uphold the law by allowing every American the right to due process, into Trump adminstration supports rape on college campuses.
Liberals are so used to a president and an administration who flagrantly disregards the law, they can t even comprehend why due process is one of our most sacred rights.Twitter user, Makada does a great job of explaining to the leftsits who are criticizing DeVos and Presdient Trump that men should be entitled to the same rights as women, and that it is NOT okay to determine that they are guilty of sexual assault without a fair trial in a court of law:Leftists are tweeting #StopBetsy because she wants men to be innocent until proven guilty.
I guess liberals don't believe in due process.
Makada (@_Makada_) September 7, 2017Here are a few of the uninformed responses to DeVos statement today:Let s start with dingbat of the year, Democrat Rep. Nancy Pelosi s reaction to DeVos announcement:.
@BetsyDeVosED's remarks are another salvo in Admin's attacks on women & survivors by destroying robust Title IX enforcement.
#StopBetsy Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) September 7, 2017When a leftist uses a quote by Joe Biden, you know her argument is very likely baseless:What could DeVos and Trump possibly have to gain by taking away Title IX protections for college women?
#StopBetsy pic.twitter.com/TAdjA1gp0K Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) September 7, 2017Apparently, according to Amy Siskind, restoring the rule of law is, just the next step on our path to authoritarianism.
Liberal logic 101 LOL!DeVos wiping away Title IX protections for college sexual assault is just the next step on our path to authoritarianism.
#StopBetsy1/ Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) September 7, 2017You wouldn t be true to your leftist ideology if you didn t throw race and sexual orientation into your argument that has absolutely nothing to do with either one.
LOL!Betsy DeVos won't protect lgbtq and non white students from discrimination or sexual assault victims.
Who does she protect?
#StopBetsy britt (@bmorgan16) September 7, 2017And then there were a few people on Twitter who reminded the left about cases where the alleged victim was found to be lying about her rape (after she destroyed the accused rapist s life of course):#StopBetsy: Remember Your Hero Mattress Girl?
She Lied About Being Raped & Destroyed A Young Mans Life.
#TitleIX Allowed That To Happen pic.twitter.com/Vf6PjzWfsS Deplorable R z rbak (@MediaJuggernaut) September 7, 2017Paul Joseph Watson provided a very telling video that dispels the misconception of out-of-control rape on college campuses that needs to be protected by the left:Are 1 in 5 Women Raped at College?Hint: No.#StopBetsyhttps://t.co/pPpENyoBh4 Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) September 7, 2017