A voting scandal has erupted in Florida again.
Democrat vote ballot boxes were allegedly found at the bottom of a closet, after Democrat voters were turned away from the polls.First, it is alleged that Democrat voters in the Polk Country district were being turned away from the polls by and informed them that the vote was for Republican candidates only.
Theresa Wibert told local media: The boss came over and said we could vote for Republicans only.
I couldn t believe it.
I told them I wasn t leaving It sure wasn t politically correct.
There were also confirmed reports from a third voter in Winter Haven precinct also being turned away on the same false pretext.
All three voted because they were clear on the schedule, they wondered how many people would have been disenfranchised by the move.
We would have been turned away if we weren t forceful about it, Wibert said.Polk County has since confirmed that the exchanges described by Wibert did indeed take place, stating that it was simply a mistake that will not be repeated.
According to Polk County, no harm was done as Wibert and her husband got to vote.But although they voted, Wibert spotted something later which makes her doubt that the ballots cast by Democrats in her precinct ever made it to the count.
As she told The Ledger: We pushed it a little further and the lady called a few people, Finally, she looked in the bottom of a closet and found a box with the Democratic ballots.
Then they fixed it, so we were able to vote for our candidate.
This means that we do not know how many Democrat voters cast a vote for the GOP in the absence of other candidates, or how many simply didn t vote at all.
As Wibert states: I think it s terrible, and I think people that aren t educated or don t know what s going on, might have just voted for whoever, It s suspect.
As the state which made the hanging chad infamous after it s last voting scandal which lifted George W Bush to the White House in 2002, Florida will have to work hard to reassure voters that this is not another attack on the Democrats.Featured image via Flickr Creative Commons