A new campaign ad from reality TV star and current Republican presidential front runner Donald Trump exploits the death of 17-year-old Jas Shaw in order to further the racist narrative Trump launched his campaign with.
In the ad, Shaw s death at the hands of undocumented immigrant Pedro Espinoza is used as an argument to elect Trump president.
Jas Shaw was a 17-year-old football star who was gunned just outside his home, a narrator says as the words gunned down appear in white bold letters against a red background on top of the photo.
His killer?
An illegal immigrant gang member who just got out of prison.
The 30-second ad, which will soon air in South Carolina ahead of the Feb. 20 Republican primary, features Jas Shaw s father, Jamiel Shaw, who has endorsed Trump for president and appeared on the campaign trail with him.
In the ad, Shaw says Trump is the only candidate who will end illegal immigration.
Trump is the only one saying: You re going to be dealt with.
We re going to enforce that, Shaw says in the ad.
We re going to enforce that.
That s a beautiful thing.
It is, of course, impossible to end all illegal immigration and Trump s proposal to deport 11 million people is similarly a stupid and unworkable idea that has been derided by people on both the left and the right.But Trump doesn t actually care about how practical the idea is.
He is pandering to base, racist impulses on the right and from the day his campaign launched he has been exploiting bigotry in order to advance politically.The new ad is the direct 2016 descendant of 1988 s Willie Horton ad, in which images of a black murderer were used by Republican supporters of President George H.W.
Bush (who were also connected to Roger Ailes, now the head of Fox News) to attack Democratic presidential nominee as soft on crime.
Trump s anti-Latino, anti-Muslim rhetoric has already resulted in assaults on Latinos by perpetrators who said Trump inspired them, as well as incidents at Trump rallies of Muslim and black protesters being physically and verbally assaulted by Trump backers.An ad broadcast on television during a heated primary simply ramps up the outrage felt by many on the right and give them the excuse of another ethnic target.The mainstream media has studiously avoided pointing out the hate motivating Trump s campaign, either out of fear of backlash from conservatives or just out of the sense that a continued Trump campaign is good for ratings.Featured image from YouTube