If there is one thing that s immediately clear by attending a Republican presidential rally or looking at the demographics of Fox News it s that the modern Republican Party is not so modern after all.
They are old.
And each year, they lose more of their supporters to Father Time, while being replaced by a far more progressive youth.Understanding the basic math of this problem can sends shivers down the spine of a Republican political operative.
How can they expect to compete with the Democratic Party with their supporters entering their 70s?
Sadly, the most obvious answer update your archaic policy positions, stupid!
never occurs to them.
Instead, they are going to try to fake it.
They ll pretend to be cool.One shot at this sad new attempt to cling onto relevancy comes in the form of Millennials Rising, a conservative Super PAC that aims to show the youth that the Republican Party can be hip and dope and on fleek.
Their ads are pathetic as they sound.Here s one supporting Jeb Bush:Seems like it was made by an old guy desperately trying to figure out what is cool, right?
That s because it kind of was.In an investigation by The Intercept, reporters found that Millinnials Rising is 95 percent funded by old rich guys.
The principle backer is a 72-year-old billionaire who earned his fortune by being the grandson of an oil baron.Of the $54,960 total raised by the Super PAC, $50,000, or 91 percent, comes from the snowy-haired, 72-year-old billionaire Robert A.
Day.
He is the grandson of Superior Oil founder William Myron Keck and a former investment manager.
Day has also given $1 million to the pro-Bush Super PAC Right to Rise.The rest of the Super PAC s backers are all about equally far into their golden years.Zooming out, the silliness of a bunch of rich old guys funding a Super PAC intended for 18-year-olds is exactly why the Republican Party is such a mess.
Rather than come to accept that things like homophobia and regressive social safety net positions are out of sync with where America especially its young people are at, they try to throw money at the problem.
Unfortunately, all the Instagram filters and Vine loops in the world can t convince young people that Republicans aren t the party of backwards policies.To give us a sense of what is coming, Mitt Romney desperately tried to win the Millennial vote in 2012 by throwing a fortune into ads at them he still lost them 2 to 1.Obama easily won the youth vote nationally, 67 percent to 30 percent, with young voters proving the decisive difference in Florida, Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio, according to an analysis by the Center for Research and Information on Civic Learning and Engagement at Tufts University.It wasn t even close.Feature image via YouTube