For seven years there s been several folks, let s call them birthers, who have questioned the validity of President Obama s United States citizenship.
These people refuse to believe that the president was born in Hawaii, and refuse to believe that even if he wasn t (he was), that he was born to an American citizen, his mother.
When it comes down to it, it s not that they question the validity of Obama so much as they question the validity of having a black president.
After all, he doesn t look like any other former president, so he must not be from here, right?
Wrong.Now, if birthers really wanted to go after someone vying for the Oval Office, they, quite literally, could go after Senator Ted Cruz.
You see, Cruz was born in Canada and was a Canadian citizen.
However, just like Obama he was born to an American citizen, so he is, in fact, a natural-born citizen as the Constitution stipulates, but if you re going to go after anyone for being foreign-born, Cruz makes a much better target.Lately on the campaign trail, Captain Birther himself, Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump, has brought up the legitimacy of Ted Cruz s ability to run for president.
He s even gone so far as to want Cruz to go before a judge to make a ruling on his citizenship.Getting a good giggle from all of this was none other than White House press secretary Josh Earnest, who, when asked about Cruz and this line of questioning regarding citizenship, answered: It would be quite ironic if after seven or eight years of drama around the President s birth certificate, if Republican primary voters were to choose Senator Cruz as their nominee.
Somebody who actually wasn t born in the United States and only 18 months ago renounced his Canadian citizenship.
Which is very true.
If these Republican birthers, who were so angry at the make-believe possibility that Obama was not born in the nation actually vote for a man who, in all legitimacy, wasn t born in the country, it would not only be ironic, it would be hypocritical, and prove the entire birther movement is steeped in racism.It s impressive that Earnest was able to hold himself together as much as he did after that question was asked.
Video/Featured image: ABC news