A teenage girl who fought back when she was allegedly groped by a Trump supporter while protesting at a Wisconsin rally was then pepper-sprayed in the face by her attacker.In footage, the girl (identified as Alex Drake) can be seen confronting a man in his late-fifties to early sixties, incensed that he has apparently sexually assaulted her in the middle of the crowded event.
The man claims she touched him first and an argument ensues in which Drake throws a punch at the man while the crowd attempts to separate the two.
But as she swings, a male arm reaches out and pepper sprays the teenage girl directly into the eyes.
She is then pulled to safety by her friends.The 15-year-old said:It was simple.
I was in the crowd and a man started groping me.
I yelled at him to stop touching me several times and he just laughed and continued, I yelled at him and said you re a grown man and I am a fifteen-year-old-girl, are you proud of yourself?
As I tried to push him off.
He just kept laughing and still had his hands on me, so I hit him.
Immediately as my hands went towards him I got pepper sprayed and then I basically got carried to a cop car because I could not open my eyes.The images and video quickly made it to social media where people recoiled at this latest act of wanton violence at a Trump event.Alex, 15, of Janesville shoved and pepper sprayed by Trump supporter.
#TrumpJanesville #DumpTrump pic.twitter.com/lT86udgBgn Lady Forward (@LadyForward) March 29, 2016This is a good day to remember that Trump supporters are exceedingly likely to bring a gun to a knife fight #TrumpJanesville Kelli Daley (@Kelli_Daley) March 29, 2016"You can't combover racism."
#TrumpJanesville pic.twitter.com/GknKEKpPzu Molly Beck (@MollyBeck) March 29, 2016Meanwhile, other Trump fans at the rally continued to remind us all that they are totally NOT racist, at all, in any way.Trump supporter David Webb of Milton waves confederate flag at #TrumpJanesville site, calls it symbol of state power pic.twitter.com/aNKeChacuj Rob Schultz (@RobSchultzWSJ) March 29, 2016The scenes at this Trump rally range from the pathetic to the intolerable.
To think the GOP race has descended to such gutter depths, that their political rallies are no longer a safe space for teenage girls.
They have become cesspits of violent rage that have no place in modern America.Featured Image via screengrab