Madeleine Albright, who served as Secretary of State under Bill Clinton, has something to say about Trump and his immigration and foreign policy positions.
Trump, as we all know, is in love with the idea that only he and his policies can protect us from ISIS.
However, real international diplomats know that s not true, and Albright said so on a podcast with former Obama strategist David Axelrod.Albright just came right out and said it: If this anti-immigrant rhetoric and the executive order that came out was supposed to protect us, it has done the opposite.
Frankly, it s a great recruiting tool for ISIS.
We already know that ISIS has used Trump in recruiting videos, but what Albright says is that Trump is destroying any incentive that Iraqis and other Middle Easterners might have to help us, as opposed to helping ISIS or doing nothing at all.
Trump s Muslim ban doesn t just alienate them, it also makes it a lot more difficult to gather intelligence from the region.
We need cooperation for intelligence-gathering, but why should they help us when we re openly calling them the enemy via our immigration policies?Albright also said that she believes Trump and his chief strategist, Steve Bannon, are actually hostile to Europe while being overly friendly to Russia.
That, too, can serve as recruitment for ISIS and other terrorist groups, if for no other reason than it demonstrates how fickle we are, and how unlikely to keep our promises and back up our allies we are.Trump claimed he could beat ISIS inside of 30 days (although he didn t say which 30-day period he was talking about).
If nothing else, he s said that we have to beef up our military strength, and implied that we need to ally with whoever we can (even former enemies) in order to beat them.Albright is right, and Trump is putting us in danger.
All his anti-immigrant, nationalist rhetoric does is galvanize everyone who already felt alienated by our foreign policy.
That includes Muslims, particularly those living here in the U.S. We are not safer under Trump, and ISIS knows that.Featured image by Aude Guerrucci via Getty Images