The Obama administration recently sent a missive to public schools nationwide, informing them that they must treat students consistently with their gender identity even if it is different from what was biologically assigned to them by nature.
Long story short, this means no bathroom police in our schools.Needless to say, Republicans didn t take this well.
Their reaction was something between Obama telling them a yo momma joke and him personally burning the original copy of the Constitution.However, it seems that a victory for the administration will be handed to them by none other than the late Antonin Scalia himself, much to the distress of Republicans everywhere.In the 1990s, Antonin Scaia spoke for a unanimous court decision that found in favor of the plaintiff in a sex-discrimination case.
The case was brought from a man who was being bullied by other men and threatened with rape in the showers at his job on an oil rig.
The man s employer ignored the problem, and he brought a lawsuit over it.
Scalia himself said that his employer s inaction was clearly discrimination based on sex, and he cited the Civil Rights act of 1964 as supporting this decision.
Male-on-male sexual harassment was assuredly not the principal evil Congress was concerned with when it enacted the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
But statutory prohibitions often go beyond the principal evil to cover reasonably comparable evils, and the words of the law can be easily read to forbid sexual harassment of any kind.
Source: Oncale Vs. Sundowner Offshore ServicesAnd there you have it.
Antonin Scalia just handed Republicans one huge fat goose egg on their efforts to make segregation cool again in America by rebooting it to hate on transgender folks.
The spirit of the law is incredibly simple to understand.
You aren t supposed to be harassed at work, school, or other public venue places, especially because of an inborn characteristic like being of a particular gender.
The harassment for transgender individuals is impossible to portray differently so it wouldn t be covered by the Civil Rights Act.Republicans are aware of this, and this is why there has been a very recent outcry by many of them to have Congress fundamentally dismantle the Civil Rights Act.
They d be willing to essentially trash the entire thing, exposing millions of people beyond only the transgender community to all forms of discrimination all so they can militarize American restrooms.Featured image via rrstar.com