Democratic Presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders appeared on MSNBC s The Rachel Maddow Show this week and summed up the entire disastrous GOP race for President in one glorious sentence: the Republican Party today now is a joke, maintained by a media which really does not force them to discuss their issues.
In a show that aired on Wednesday night, Maddow invited Sanders to comment on Trump s comments to fellow MSNBC host Chris Matthews that there should be some kind of punishment for women who have abortions.
Sanders recoiled at the comments, stating unequivocally: Shameful is understating that position.
First of all, to me, and most Americans, women have the right to control their own bodies.
But to punish a woman, for having an abortion, is beyond comprehension.
One would have to say: what is on Donald Trump s mind?
I don t know what world this person lives in.
The interview continues with Sanders crushing each pillar of the Republican race, one after another.
Until finally, Maddow asks Sanders how he feels about the GOP seeming to split, with the potential for the convention to refuse to endorse the winner of the Primaries.
It s worth seeing Sander s full reply, which absolutely nails the crisis at the heart of the GOP and conservative media today: Well, uh, first of all, I don t necessarily take at value face value what they say.
I think at the end of the day, they probably will come together.But the other point, I think the more the deeper point, Rachel, is the Republican Party today has moved very, very far to the right.
Uh, they are way out of touch with where the American people are.And I think if we had a media in this country that was really prepared to look at what the Republicans actually stood for rather than quoting every absurd remark of Donald Trump, talking about Republican Party, talking about hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the top two tenths of 1 percent, cuts to Social Security and Medicare, Medicaid, a party which with few exceptions, doesn t even acknowledge the reality of climate change, let alone do anything about it, a party which is not prepared to stand with women in the fight for pay equity, a party that is not prepared to do anything about a broken criminal justice system or a corrupt campaign finance system, I think, to be honest with you and I just don t, you know, say this rhetorically, this is a fringe party.
It is a fringe party.
Maybe they get 5, 10 percent of the vote.What you really need in this country is a progressive party standing with the working class and the middle class of this country.
And yes, a conservative party that, you know, has, you know, is more fiscally conservative.
That is where we should be as a country.But the Republican Party today now is a joke, maintained by a media which really does not force them to discuss their issues.So that that s my two cents on that.
The Republican Party is in crisis.
It s candidates have pulled so far to the right that even Ann Coulter is having a wobble, and it s hard to see how they could possibly gain the support of the wider American public in time for Election 2016.While the candidates daily horrifying comments might be making lots of front page news, they would be foolish to expect this press attention to turn into votes at least, not for them.
There is such a thing as bad press.
The revulsion by the majority of common sense Americans at the GOP parade of bigotry, sexism and theocratic zealotry could well crush the party come voting day and the party will be left in tatters.
It s grassroots to the right of Ghengis Khan, while the nation is moving far enough in a progressive direction that a democratic socialist like Bernie Sanders is able to maintain a solid campaign.
Something has to give, and as yet the GOP has no answer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4vQP7Hy42z8Featured image via screencapture