Four Donald Trump surrogates tried their best to lay out their case that there is a major bias against Trump Sunday morning during a broadcast of CNN s Reliable Sources.
Trump and his supporters have alleged that the media is out to get Trump since the onset of the primary election.
Now that Trump s polling numbers have been in a free-fall since the general election began, they are more desperate than ever to prove that it is all because of the media s bias against their candidate.Scottie Nell Hughes, one of Trump s most vocal surrogates, has previously spoken out against the press at large, claiming that the media is conspiring against Trump.
Hughes reiterates Newt Gingrich s recent claim that roughly 70% of those in the media have a tendency to lean to the left politically.
The figure that Hughes is regurgitating appears to be erroneous; there was a study conducted in 2005 that showed that news does favor more liberal positions.
However, the reality of the situation is that most media outlets tend to either be biased towards one side of the political spectrum and cater to that audience.Much of the debate during the segment centered around Trump s plummeting polling numbers.
You know, polling can be skewed too, Kremer, another Trump surrogate mentioned.
He made the claim that polling numbers are affected By the way the questions are [asked], the number Democrats versus Republicans that are polled.
So, you can t say that there s not any bias in the polling because I believe there certainly is.
Well, of course, those factors do a play a part in public polling.
As anyone who is going to go on a cable television show and talk about polling numbers should know, those biases are taken into account by pollsters.
If they are not, they typically get disregarded.The other claims that the surrogates make during the episode are just as easy to explain away.
That does not stop the Trump supporters from trying to explain how Trump truly is just a victim of the media s liberal bias.
It couldn t possibly have anything to do with his flagrant, hateful sentiments that he has made during his very short political career.
Nor the fact that his policy proposals change on a whim and to sound like they originated from a neo-Nazi s fever dream.You can watch Trump s surrogates try and rationalize their terrible candidate s failures below, in full.Featured image from video screenshot