Former FBI Director James Comey is, no doubt, just trying to get on with his life right now after being unceremoniously stripped of his job by an administration prone to temper tantrums worthy of three-year old children.
Press and others are apparently camped outside Comey s Virginia home, and one of his very young neighbors thinks that just isn t right.
So she decided to see if she could brighten his day with a little gift fresh-baked chocolate chip cookies.So how is this little girl, named Abby, more mature than an old man named Donald Trump?
Well, besides the obvious problems with Trump and his hypersensitive response to everything, it s the reason why she delivered cookies to Comey.
Her mother told a reporter that Abby said: We ve spent a lot of time talking about how kindness and empathy are the most important ways for us to engage [with] people regardless of if we agree with or understand their positions.In [Director] Comey s case, Abby said I wanted him to know we respect him for his career of service.
That s not all, though.
Abby actually sent a note with the cookies that said: We are proud to be your neighbor and thank you for all you have done for America.
Love: Abby Grace.
Reports from the White House saying Comey had lost the respect of his rank-and-file agents seem to be inaccurate and designed to prop up Trump s decision, made in the heat of a tantrum where Trump was just fed up with having someone in his service who wouldn t fall meekly in line behind him.
In other words, Trump and his minions basically lied in order to make that tantrum look like a legit dismissal, rather than Trump stomping his feet and screaming, Wah wah wah!!
Comey won t play by my rules!
He s being a big meanie-head!
Trump demonstrated his schoolyard-bully mentality when he threatened Comey over Twitter:James Comey better hope that there are no tapes of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 12, 2017Abby wasn t having any of it.
Her mother told reporters this, too: FBI Director Comey lives in our neighborhood, and, as you would imagine there were a lot of reporters at the foot of his driveway today.
Abby thought that was quite inhospitable.
Lots of reporters haunting your driveway can make you want to stay inside all the time just to avoid answering the same questions over and over and being generally hounded.
In Comey s case, those questions probably involve things he can t actually discuss.
Abby must have felt that Comey needed a pick-me-up: Well either a 9 year old in a parochial school uniform dress doesn t look very threatening- or the smell of the choc chip cookies was so good that the security detail could smell them from the other side of the gate .
in either case, Abby Grace just hand delivered a dozen cookies fresh from the oven.
She walked up, shook the hand of the 6 10 agent, introduced herself, and, hopefully made Director Comey s day a little bit better!
We hope so, too.
To be clear, Abby didn t do this to shame Trump, she did it because she hoped it would make her neighbor feel better.
That s what makes it so awesome, and why it puts Trump to a high level of shame.Featured image by Molly Riley-Pool via Getty Images