Donald Trump moved ever closer to securing the Republican nomination for President of the United States this week with victory in the Nevada caucus.There s no way around it Trump thrashed his opponents in Nevada.
He won a massive 45.9% of the vote, knocking Marco Rubio into 2nd place with just 23.9%, and Cruz in 3rd on 21.4%.
It appears that the Trump campaign is unassailable at this point, although a week is a long time in U.S. politics.Graphic via GuardianPerhaps the darkest moment of the night was when Trump actually said these words in his victory speech: We won with poorly educated!
I love the poorly educated!
There were whopping cheers and applause for this comment.
Which seemingly bore zero irony.
He continued: We re the smartest people.
We re the most loyal people.
First things first: Donald Trump is not poorly educated.
He attended the Kew Forest School until 8th grade before spending the rest of his schooling in the New York Military Academy.
He later won a bachelors degree in Economic from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.
So, another total lie from this candidate.One reason poorly educated might appeal to Trump though, is that part of the education process is to give a person the tools to think critically about an issue, and to fact-check arguments.
It is not to say you cannot have these skills without a decent high school education, but it s an uphill struggle.
It s not impossible to save a person having a heart attack without having had medical training, but you d put your money on the doctor every time.So, now wonder Trump would like to keep America under-educated.According to leading fact-checking site Politifact, just 1% of claims made by Donald Trump are true.
One percent!
Meanwhile, 3 out of every 5 statements he makes are absolute lies.
Let s take a look back at some of those lies:They just keep on coming.And on the matter of faith, Donald Trump is now claiming to be some sort of born again evangelical.
Yet, Trump has been married three times, pokes fun of Holy Communion as eating the little cracker , claims he has never asked God to forgive his sins in his life, and could not name a single passage of the Bible when pressed for his favorite piece of scripture.Trump is about as devout a Christian as Bill Nye.And yet, he is winning evangelical support in droves.
Why?
Because the evangelical, Christian Conservative movement has zero to do with faith in God, and everything to do with a fanatical conviction in right-wing principles of crony capitalism, white supremacy, homophobia and sexism.If this was not the case, Trump would be the LAST candidate that appealed to Evangelicals.
To any right-thinking Christian, he is the 21st century incarnation of the Whore of Babylon.But Trump gets a pass for all of this, because under-educated people are having their ignorance exploited, and bigoted people are having their bellies tickled.
This resurgent right is euphoric that it s candidate can say things on national television that have been outlawed in workplaces and public spaces for decades.
They are thrilled that hate has been made mainstream by their candidate, and they are going to come out in their droves to support him.This means that voting in this year s election will be the most important ballots cast on American soil in a very long time.
The reproductive rights of women, the rights of LGBT Americans, the rights of non-Christians, the rights of victims of rape and sexual assault, the rights of victims of gun crime, the rights of non-white Americans they are all on the chopping block in this election.
Every American with a conscience and a sense of decency has the absolute duty to make a stand against this sh*tstorm of stupidity, bigotry and ignorance.
Featured Image via Screengrab