Donald Trump s behavior and outlandish ways have made him countless enemies and some of them are in the White House.
Apparently, there s a lot of animosity over the fact that Trump s team keeps trying to do damage control and save Trump from the several federal investigations that are haunting the White House, and Trump continues to undo their hard work every day.This couldn t be more clear in the way the White House has reacted to Trump s lashing out at his own Deputy Attorney General, Rod Rosenstein, on Friday morning.
The Daily Beast is reporting that Trump s team is so disgusted by this, Trump s aides and advisers are actually mocking him and making jokes about how they can get him to shut the hell up.In response to Trump s tweet about Rosenstein this morning, in which Trump said I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director!
, an anonymous senior Trump administration official reportedly joked: Has anyone read his Miranda rights?
At this point in Trump s flawed presidency, we all know that the best thing he could do for himself and his numerous criminal investigations would be to remain silent which he is incapable of.
One senior Trump administration official even placed blame on Trump for bringing the obstruction of justice inquiry upon himself.
That senior aide said: The president did this to himself.
Another White House official shared that no one in the administration is surprised when Trump goes off the rails on Twitter anymore.
That official said that for all the heartburn and misery , they should expect that dealing with Trump s insanity is just part of the job now: If you haven t made this a settled factor in your morning routine, why are you still here?
Thanks to Trump s erratic behavior, GOP insiders are seriously worried that he s not mentally fit to continue on with the rest of his presidency.
Republican strategist Evan Siegfried said: President Trump has started the clock on the Rosenstein firing watch.
This is feeding the private discussions in the GOP about the president s state of mind.
As Trump s erratic behavior gets worse, we can expect more White House and GOP leaks as Trump s team turns on him one by one.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images