For more than a year the people of Flint, Michigan have been poisoned by their government because Republicans in the state wanted to save some money.
What s worse is that officials knew the water was full of lead and they did nothing about it.
The toxic water has been linked to the deaths of ten people and thousands of adults and children have been exposed to a multitude of chronic conditions because Governor Synder failed them.
Unsurprisingly, we are now learning that in addition to the human victims of Flint, dogs have also been contaminated.According to Dog Time:Two dogs in Genessee County tested positive for lead toxicity according to the state veterinarian, Dr. James Averill.
State officials aren t releasing many other details such as how much lead they had in their systems or what their symptoms were.
One was a stray, and the other was a pet.
Both are still alive.
Symptoms of lead poisoning can include malaise, arthritis, and mental dullness.It was really only a matter of time before we heard about pets being affected by the Snyder Administration s systematic poisoning of an entire city.
Our pets, after all, drink the same water we do; but even though we knew it would happen, it is still infuriating.Literally, nobody has gone untouched in Flint.
And as more details emerge about what led to this, it really is just completely mind-blowing.
For instance, for just $100 a day, for three months, all of this could have been avoided, but Republicans were like, Meh.
Let s save money and gamble with people s lives.
Oh, but it gets even better: Instead of spending all of their time worrying about the people in Flint and the enormous humanitarian crisis on their hands, GOP lawmakers are trying to ban anal and oral sex.
We are not kidding.Dr.
Averill is telling the people of Flint to keep an eye on their pets and if they are acting out of the ordinary, bring them to the vet.
He also told them to give them bottled water or melted snow.
That s right, melted snow is safer than the water in the city.
How screwed up is that?All of this proves that not even our pets are safe from the Republican Party s inability to govern.
Featured image from author