Donald Trump never runs out of new ways to disgust and offend people.
Ever since the first day of his presidential campaign, the presumptive Republican nominee has created controversial moment after controversial moment behavior that has unfortunately won over the hearts of America s most racist, bigoted citizens.
However, now that he s beat out all of his conservative rivals and has a more clear view of the White House, he wants America to forget all of the ways he s tarnished his chances of appearing presidential.
In a recent interview with The Washington Post, Trump tried to reframe a horrific incident that happened last November, in which he made a disgusting mockery of a New York Times reporter s physical disability.
It was a cringe-worthy moment that was heavily circulated, and Trump got rightfully blasted for it after it happened but now, he s trying to deny it.
And as expected, any time Trump tries to defend himself, he only makes it worse.
Here s what he said: I would never say anything bad about a person that has a disability.
I swear to you it s true, 100 percent true Who would do that to [the] handicapped?
I ve spent a lot of money making buildings accessible.
Is he serious?
For Trump to act like he makes his buildings accessible for people with disabilities is absolutely ludicrous because that kind of accessibility is required BY LAW.
This is also coming from a guy who posted a picture of himself eating a taco bowl to show how much he loves Hispanics a particular minority that he has insulted and made racist comments toward during his entire campaign.
So obviously, just because Trump s buildings are accessible to people with disabilities, that doesn t mean he wouldn t mock or be prejudiced against them.But it gets worse.
The Washington Post also reported that after Trump bragged about how his buildings were so accessible, Trump then satirically reenacted the scene, his arms jerking all around, and said he was trying to show a guy who grovels Oh, oh, I didn t say that.
I didn t say that.
That was the imitation I was doing.
Now is that a believable story?
What an idiot.
If you need a refresher, here s the original video where Trump made fun of the reporter.
Watch this, and see if you think Trump s latest pathetic excuse for his behavior is a believable story.
Corey Lewankowski, Trump s campaign manager (who physically assaulted a female reporter a few weeks ago) has spoken on Trump s effort to rebrand himself: This is deeply personal for Mr. Trump.
He will do anything he can to correct the narrative.
He wants to point to specific things that are absolutely false about him and go out and talk about them.
Well, he s doing a really shitty job so far.Featured image is a screenshot