President Obama was in Argentina following his historic visit to Cuba, and it s clear that even thousands of miles away, he really cannot stand Ted Cruz.
When asked about the Republican candidate s appalling calls to patrol and secure Muslim neighborhoods during a news conference, Obama unloaded on the Texas senator.While Obama was busy in Cuba, Cruz and his fellow Republicans seized upon recent terror attacks in Brussels to promote their ugly anti-Muslim policy positions, which include such enlightened stances as build a wall and ban Muslims and, now, unconstitutionally surveil innocent American Muslims.
Everyone from terrorism experts to the NYPD have condemned Cruz s remarks as unrealistic, morally abhorrent, and giving ISIS just what they want.Obama noticed another sick irony to Cruz s rush towards discrimination: His own family history.
As far as the notion of having surveillance of neighborhoods with a Muslim presence, I just left a country [Cuba] that engages in that kind of neighborhood surveillance.
Which, by the way, the father of Senator Cruz escaped for America, the land of the free The reality check must sting Cruz particularly hard because he s been deeply critical of Obama s softening stance towards Cuba.
The basis of that criticism has always been that Cuba violates human rights by persecuting dissidents and perceived threats to its government.
Cruz, being a well-known and unapologetic hypocrite, seems to have no problem with engaging in those very same undemocratic tactics as long as it s against people he personally doesn t like.Obama summarized Cruz s sickening vision of America s future by concluding that the notion that we would start down that slippery slope makes absolutely no sense.
Obama: I just left a country that engages in neighborhood surveillance which [Ted Cruz s father] escaped for Americahttps://t.co/uNMj3dlIGy Fox News (@FoxNews) March 23, 2016If there is any silver lining in Cruz s bold advocacy for institutional discrimination against Muslims, it s that it shows Americans just how radical his worldview really is.
Even as moderate Republicans like Mitt Romney and Jeb Bush encourage voters to support Cruz to defeat Trump, we are reminded that there are not really a lesser of two evils option here.
Both Cruz and Trump have staked their political campaigns on bigotry and unconstitutional attacks against groups they don t like.
Neither has any place in the White House.Featured image via Fox News