The White House is getting really nervous today after Donald Trump Jr. tweeted out damning copies of an email chain of a discussion about setting up a meeting with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer in order to obtain dirt on Hillary Clinton.
Also at the meeting was Trump s son-in-law, Jared Kushner and the alleged president s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort.
The meeting was held in Trump Tower in 2016, but the amateur president claims to know nothing about it even though he touts himself as a micromanager.Junior s brother, Eric Trump, stepped in to defend him on Twitter Tuesday.
By the way, Junior s father has been strangely quiet on Twitter since the news broke but Eric put his juice box down and took to his Twitter account to defend his scandal-plagued brother.
This is the EXACT reason they viciously attack our family!
They can t stand that we are extremely close and will ALWAYS support each other, Eric Trump tweeted.This is the EXACT reason they viciously attack our family!
They can't stand that we are extremely close and will ALWAYS support each other.
https://t.co/1f7JqxScMr Eric Trump (@EricTrump) July 11, 2017Eric said that while retweeting a video clip posted by United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) and Brexit leader Nigel Farage who was defending Donald Trump Jr., saying the amateur president s (OK, he didn t say amateur but still) eldest son is being attacked for supporting his father.Twitter users could see that Eric s whiny defense sucked.Eric Trump proclaims the 60% of Americans who dont support his father hate close families.
Yah, that's it.
(Eric shhhh!
Ur not helping.)
Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) July 11, 2017Supermodel Chrissy Teigen weighed in.What happens when you see garlic christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) July 11, 2017Tweeting out a discredited racist to defend your family is admirably on-brand.
Dave Zirin (@EdgeofSports) July 11, 2017No, Eric.
The reason we attack your family is that you're a bunch of corrupt imbecilities, driving our country like drunk monkies.
Kelly Scaletta (@KellyScaletta) July 11, 2017While playing victim Eric doesn t seem to realize that his brother tweeted out his own emails, which, by the way, threw Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort under the bus.
In fact, he threw the entire White House under the bus.The subject line of the emails was titled, Russia Clinton private and confidential.
This is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government s support for Mr. Trump, Rob Goldstone, who set up the meeting, wrote.
If it s what you say I love it, Trump Jr. said in response to the potential information on Hillary Clinton.Well now!
Maybe Junior, Jared and Paul Manafort were attacking Hillary because they can t stand that her family is extremely close.
Trump responded to the email dump by his own son in a statement Tuesday, saying that Don Jr. is a high-quality person and I applaud his transparency.
Except that the only reason Junior was transparent was because he was caught.
Junior outed his emails before the New York Times could publish them.Photo by Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images.