Eric Trump sat down with the Telegraph and things quickly went off the rails.
Eric for years seen as the dumb one blundered his way through the interview with such lack of self-awareness that he wound up revealing a bunch of stuff he shouldn t have.
But there is one tone-deaf comment that Eric Trump made that you ll want to keep in the back of your mind throughout the rest of this story.
When asked about his father s desire to make the White House a Trump family affair, Eric said: Is that nepotism?
Absolutely.
Is that also a beautiful thing?
Absolutely.
Family business is a beautiful thing.
A lot of ink has been spilled speculating on what Trump s presidential doctrine is, but the answer is painfully simple: Rank nepotism.
Paranoid and alienated, Trump s only allies in Washington are his own children and he s been furthering his separation from the rest of his staff by leaning on them with increasing regularity.
His son-in-law, Jared Kushner has recently become the most powerful person in the country.
His only qualification is getting married to Ivanka.Unfortunately, it gets worse.
Donald Trump isn t just placing his close family and friends in positions they have no business being in, but also allowing those inexperienced cronies the chance to influence American military operations.
According to Eric, his sister Ivanka was actually the architect of the decision to bomb Syria.
Until January 20, Ivanka s career was in selling cheap jewelry made in China to fans of her father s reality tv show.
She now has a seat at the table in starting a world war.
[Eric] confirmed that President Trump s decision to bomb a Syrian airbase to punish President Bashar al-Assad for a nerve gas attack last week was influenced by the reaction of his sister Ivanka, who said she was heartbroken and outraged by the atrocity.That he was listening to his daughter and not his advisers explains why the Trump White House seemed chaotic and clueless in the hours after the bombing.
Nobody was on the same page.
Trump s UN ambassador and his Secretary of State were issuing conflicting statements about the intent of the bombings.
Other staff initially bragged about destroying the airfield.
Trump contradicted them by saying he intentionally didn t destroy the airfield.
Nobody knew what was going on except maybe Ivanka, a person with no official job in the White House.Adding to the confusion, Trump himself once praised Saddam Hussein for using chemical weapons on his enemies.
It was jarring to watch him claim that Assad s use of sarin gas was so personally offensive to him that he had to go to war.
Eric s confession that it was Ivanka s decision fills in a lot of blanks.The fact that Eric would freely admit that this is how the White House is being run goes back to his observation that nepotism is beautiful.
Living all his life in the shadow of his dad, it seems as though he and his siblings aren t aware of how gross this whole thing is.
They are second-generation silver spooners.
Their dad owes his success to their grandfather.
They are so far removed from the real world that they ve forgotten they never earned anything.And they are running the country.
Together.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images