As you all know by now, former Daily Show host Jon Stewart once gave Donald Trump a much-retweeted nickname: F*ckface Von Clownstick and on Tuesday, he told the crowd at this year s Stand Up For Heroes benefit exactly how Trump earned that nickname.Recounting Trump s numerous and blatant attempts to point out to his Twitter followers that Stewart is a Jew, demanding to know why he abandoned his heritage by adopting the name Jon Stewart for showbiz.If Jon Stewart is so above it all & legit, why did he change his name from Jonathan Leibowitz?
He should be proud of his heritage!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 3, 2013At the time, CNN s Jake Tapper hit the nail on the head, pointing out that anti-Semitic jerks like Trump would use his heritage as if they were pejorative.
.
@realDonaldTrump I imagine bc there are anti-Semitic jerks who would try to use his last name and heritage as if they were pejorative Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) May 3, 2013 So I start to think to myself Oh, I think this guy s trying to let people know I m a Jew, Stewart told the crowd.
And I think to myself like Doesn t my face do that?'
So I decide to tweet back at him, Many people don t know this but Donald Trump s real name is Fuckface Von Clownstick.
I wish he would embrace the Von Clownstick heritage, Stewart said, quipping that Lincoln used to get into this shit all the time.
I swear to you, this is true the man who very likely, given the FBI s preference, be our next President then tweeted Amazing how the haters and losers keep voting the name Fuckface von Clownstick like they are so original and no one else is doing it, Stewart recalled, attempting not to laugh too much.
Then he tweeted What s funny about the name Fuckface Von Clownstick?
It was not coined by Jon Leibowitz; he stole it from a moron on Twitter.'
So I tweet back, We seem to have hit a F*ckface Von Nervestick, Stewart continues.
He then pointed out that right-wing superman Trump then went silent until four days later in the middle of the night until he tweeted Little Jon Stewart is a pussy and would be hopeless in a debate with me.
Vote wisely this November, Stewart concluded.Watch it below, and be sure to pick up a spit shield for your screen.
You re going to need it:Featured image via Getty Images (Dave Kotinsky)