Ever since Donald Trump won the election (unfairly, with the help of Russia), Americans have been calling for his removal from office.
These pleas have only gotten louder as Trump s presidency went on, as the incompetent POTUS repeatedly proves that he cannot do his job properly and is a danger to the country (and world).Now that Trump has passed his first 100 days, the calls for his impeachment couldn t be clearer.
He s proven that he can t get anything done and wants to play golf instead.
He s involved in numerous probes regarding his Russia scandal and business conflicts.
Amid the controversies and a historically low approval rating, even GOP lawmakers are abandoning Trump at record speed and many are calling for impeachment or for invoking the 25th Amendment, which allows presidents who are mentally unfit to be replaced.
Some lawmakers have even said Trump isn t going to finish his first term.Stephen Moore, a senior economist at the Heritage Foundation and Trump campaign adviser, commented on Trump s plummeting approval rating in an interview with the New Yorker: You can t govern this country with a forty-per-cent approval rate you just can t. Nobody in either party is going to bend over backwards for Trump if over half the country doesn t approve of him.
That, to me, should be a big warning sign.
Jerry Taylor, president of the libertarian Niskanen Center, also weighed in on why Trump s presidency is failing so quickly: The reality is, he is governing as if he is the president of a Third World country.
Power is held by family and incompetent loyalists whose main calling card is the fact that Donald Trump can trust them, not whether they have any expertise.
My guess is that there s only between 50 and 100 Republican members of the House that are truly enthusiastic about Donald Trump as president.
The balance sees him as somewhere between a deep and dangerous embarrassment and a threat to the Constitution.
Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA), the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, has even predicted Trump s odds for impeachment as a striking 2-1.Professor of constitutional law at Harvard Law School Laurence Tribe said that it s entirely possible that we will invoke the 25th Amendment well before 2020 , and that it s not a liberal fantasy but instead can be an entirely plausible tool especially in Trump s case.
At this point, getting Trump impeached would be a blessing.Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images