Not too long after CNN said they would no longer host Kellyanne Conway on their shows due to legitimate questions about her credibility (remember the Bowling Green massacre we all died at?
), she loudly proclaimed that to be a lie, and said she turned down the Sunday shows due to family obligations.False.
I could do no live Sunday shows this week BC of family.
Plus, I was invited onto CNN today & tomorrow.
CNN Brass on those emails https://t.co/LVOUWIytLK Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) February 6, 2017During the daily White House press briefing, Sean Spicer fielded a question about that and he said it was his understanding that they retracted that that they walked that back.
CNN wasn t having it.
They know what they said and they know why they said it.
Almost immediately after Spicer said that, CNN tweeted:In response to @PressSec s comment today: pic.twitter.com/2IdzeyDEU5 CNN Communications (@CNNPR) February 7, 2017Following her skewering over the Bowling Green massacre that literally never happened (and wasn t even a foiled attack), Conway tried her damnedest to claim the press was being mean to her because she misspoke one word.
The problem with that is she didn t misspeak at all she s referenced the massacre where she died, too, in the past (and really, who didn t die that day?).
In fact, she made it a bigger lie with bigger alternative facts before: [Obama banned Iraqi refugees], it s a fact.
Why did he do that?
He did that for exactly the same reasons.
He did that because two Iraqi nationals came to this country, joined ISIS, traveled back to the Middle East to get trained and refine their terrorism skills, and come back here, and were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre of taking innocent soldiers lives away.
But Spicer, who doesn t have much in the way of credibility himself, stood staunchly by her, calling her a very trusted aide, and complaining that CNN s characterization of her was insulting.Please.It s insulting that she goes on all these news shows and spins lie after lie after lie like all of America is incapable of using Google.Watch him defend her below: Read more:Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images