A We The People petition was started on July 6TH, asking the government to formally designate Black Lives Matter as a terrorist organization .
The White House requires that the person or group who initiates a petition on their We The People petition page must gather at least 100,000 signatures in 30 days.
Once they have the signatures, the White House site guarantees they will review the petition and offer an official response.
Obama will no doubt spin this, but in the meantime, it s a statement by over 100,000 American citizens about their belief that Black Lives Matter is nothing more than a terror organization.
The overwhelming support for labeling Black Lives Matter at terror group won t bode well for Hillary, who has openly supported them in an embarrassing effort to pander for votes.From the White House created We The People Petition page:About We the PeopleThe right to petition your government is guaranteed by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
We the People is a platform that empowers the American public to take this action like never before it s a way for anybody, anywhere, to speak directly to the government and become an agent for change.With We the People, you can easily create a petition online, share it, and collect signatures.
If you gather 100,000 signature in 30 days, we ll review your petition, make sure it gets in front of the appropriate policy experts, and issue an official response.Petitioning has the potential to enact real change just check out some of our petition creator s success stories but it s also your fundamental right as an American citizen, and an opportunity to connect with a community of like-minded people who are invested in making a change.
Ideally, running a petition on We the People is just the start of something bigger a long-term, robust form of civic engagement.The White House Reviews and RespondsOnce the petition reaches the required threshold (100,000 signatures), it will be put in a queue to be reviewed by the White House.
Others can still sign the petition while it is awaiting a response.
When the White House responds, everyone who has signed the petition will get email from the White House to let you know that we ve reviewed and responded to the petition.Q: How will the White House decide which petitions to respond to?The White House plans to respond to each petition that crosses the current signature threshold, which you can view on the Terms of Participation page.
In some cases, the White House response might not address the facts of a particular matter to avoid the appearance of improper influence (such as in specific procurement, law enforcement or adjudicatory matters).
In addition, the White House will not respond to petitions that violate We the People s Terms of Participation.
In some cases, a single update may be used for petitions on similar topics.To date, the petition has collected 107,652 signatures.
If you d like to add your name, click HERE.