President-elect Donald Trump has had trouble finding people to perform at his inauguration from the moment he won the election.
While A-list artists have usually jumped at the opportunity to sing or play for a new President, celebrities have turned Trump down left and right.
It s been a massive public embarrassment for Trump, even as his team uses bribery to get gigs and continues to fail.The humiliation is far from over.
The VERY few acts that agreed to perform for Trump are now dwindling.
The latest to pull out just days before Trump s big day is the B-Street Band, a Bruce Springsteen cover band.
The cover band has just announced that, due to the backlash the group received since news broke that they would play for Trump, they are abandoning the gig.In an interview with Rolling Stone, Will Forte, the group s keyboardist, manager, agent and publicist, said that the band received thousands of emails that made the band reconsider.
He recalled saying to his band members, We re standing out in the storm right here.
We gotta get out of the storm.
Due to the fact that Springsteen himself had publicly condemned Trump many times before, the band thought it would only be right to honor him and the fans that had made the Springsteen cover band a reality.
Forte said: We owe everything to [Bruce] and our gratitude and respect to the band is imperative above all else.
We felt that we had to make it known that we didn t want to seem disrespectful, in any way, shape or form, to Bruce and his music and his band.
I don t want to upset them.
We owe everything to him and our gratitude and respect to the band is imperative above all else.
It became clear to us that this wasn t working and we just had to do what we thought was the right thing to do and that was to pull out.
TwitterThe B-Street Band had actually signed a contract in 2013 to play at this year s gig, but that was before the presidential nominees had been voted on.
The band never thought they might have to play for Trump.
Forte revealed: As time went by, the complexity of the situation became real immense and intense.
The band was caught in a hurricane.
We didn t see this coming, of course.
When I started this band 37 years ago, it was only about performing and making people happy.
I never thought the distortion of what we do as a band would ve been so intense.
I wish it never would ve happened.
We would ve never got involved in this if I knew how this would turn out.
I would trade in all the support and publicity just to go back to where we were four months ago.
I don t think they ll ever be a cover band of our size in the history of music that will get the attention of something this big.
I m worn out.
The band s worn out.
Everybody loves to have their 15 minutes of fame, but maybe not this way.
TwitterForte acknowledges that the the B-Street Band may now be punished financially for breaking the contract, but considers its stance more important.
Forte said: So far, it s okay.
But that s all I can say.
Whatever the consequences are for breaking a contract, I m willing to take because this is much more important.
Trump is literally about to be left stranded at his inauguration.Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images