Every presidential candidate s economic plan has flaws.
They either rely on deficit spending (Hillary Clinton), or they rely on magic mirrors (every Republican there is).
Trump s plan will cost the U.S. more than $11 trillion, mostly from tax cuts for the wealthy that aren t paid for.
Campaigns and their surrogates are supposed to rally around their candidates, but Newt Gingrich found himself unable to defend Trump s economic plan during an appearance on Fox News Sunday.Chris Wallace asked Gingrich point-blank whether Trump s numbers add up.
Gingrich said: Of course not.
Historically, no candidates have numbers that add up.
Brilliant cover there, fanboy.
You re still a campaign surrogate admitting that his candidate s economic plan is a worthless pile of steaming dog shit.
Doing this is virtually unheard of.
Even Romney s surrogates didn t admit outright that his economic plan was going to kill the economy, not stimulate it.
When the Tax Policy Center said that Romney s plan would require raising taxes on the middle class to avoid ballooning the national debt, his campaign, and the entire GOP, came to his defense.Back in June, Moody s said that Trump s economic plan would cost us millions of jobs in addition to raising the national debt by $11 trillion.
Trump only has a tiny part of his massive tax cuts offset.
The rest amount to a massive black hole in the middle of the budget, which, in turn, would cause interest rates to skyrocket.
Skyrocketing interest rates, when combined with other factors, harm corporate output, and eventually, stock prices.We all know what happens when the stock market crashes.Predictably, Trump s campaign said there were profound errors in Moody s analysis.
Trump wants to rely on strong-arming China into a different trade agreement for his jobs plan, because of course he does.
He s a master negotiator, so China will capitulate.This isn t the beginning of the end of Gingrich s love affair with Trump; not by a long shot.
That s evident by his cover that no presidential candidate s economic plans ever add up.
But a surrogate going so far as to say on television that it s nonsense, even with a cover, is virtually unprecedented.Featured image by T.J. Kirkpatrick/Getty Images