Once again, the police demonstrate just how absolutely justified people of color are in not trusting them.
After the violence and chaos that erupted and eventually resulted in the cancellation of a Donald Trump rally in Chicago, Illinois on Friday night, some extremely vulgar and racist language was used between police officers just hours later over their dispatch radios.
Very clearly, on the tape that has been circulating on social media, the phrases Typical f ing n s and Black lives matter, my a are spat maliciously by two of Chicago s finest.
The disturbing words were uttered over the feeds from the Far South Side and Morgan Park areas both of which are populated mostly by African Americans.Here is a description of the vile exchange, via New York Daily News:The roughly 8:30 a.m. exchange started with a dispatcher joking with a police officer that it was too early to be bothering you.
They said a friendly good morning to each other.Another cop asked, How many boyfriends do you have?
The dispatcher replied with a joke.
Why you all in my Kool-Aid?
Why you over here?
Another voice said, You can answer that again, and a muffled voice said something that sounded like, You got busted over the air again.
Two seconds later, a man s voice said, Typical f ing n s. A police officer asked the dispatcher to find out what radio that comment came from and she said she couldn t track its location but had alerted her boss.A few indecipherable noises followed before another voice said the ethnic slur again.
Black lives matter, my a .
F ing n s, the voice said.
The minute-long recording then ended.You can listen here:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/251822805 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]Now, of course, the Chicago Police Department is in full on damage control mode.
They have reduced this extreme racism to inappropriate transmission on a police frequency and released the following statement: The statements made are absolutely unacceptable and Superintendent [John] Escalante has ordered an immediate internal affairs investigation into this incident, CPD officials said.
Should the investigation reveal that a member of the police department made the statements, he will be immediately suspended and disciplinary proceedings will be launched.
Considering that it was over police dispatch, it is highly unlikely that anyone BUT a Chicago police officer or someone else who has access to that feed in such a position said it.
Further, forget suspended fire these people once they are identified.
They obviously cannot police neighborhoods for people of color in a fair and unbiased way.
Don t we have enough issues with police racism?
Don t we have enough racist cops using their position to literally murder people of color?
Shame on you, Chicago PD, if you allow these racists to keep their jobs.
Then again, with the way things usually go in these cases, I won t be surprised if nobody is disciplined at all, let alone fired as they should be.Featured image via Wikimedia Commons