A Pennsylvania restaurant owner is under fire after he allegedly told a black customer that Donald Trump s election gives him the right to kick n*ggers out of his establishment.
Rickey Lee Bugg Jr., a player on the Lebanon Valley College men s basketball team says he went to Just Wing It in Annville early Sunday morning.Shortly after ordering and paying, he had a rather unforgettable encounter with the owner.
Bugg s sister posted about the incident on Facebook, explaining that the owner came out of the back and told him and some friends with whom he planned to eat to leave, informing them that I own three restaurants and I don t need you n*ggers money.
Bugg asked the waitress for his money back and she agreed.
After he got his money back, the owner decided to share more of his wisdom with Bugg: Trump s president now so I can say what I want.
You ni*gers need to get out.
According to Bugg s sister, the waitress was chiming in, telling the men,d you guys can t eat here, you need to go.
Bugg admits that at this point, he flipped some chairs on his way out the door.
I flipped a few chairs, Bugg told PennLive, adding he yelled at the owner, That s not the way to treat people.
He said the manager told him that now Donald Trump is president, I can say what I want.
He left and got some friends for support and returned to confront the racist store owner, but found that the police had been called.
Unfortunately for the Trump fan, police were on Bugg s side.
According to Bugg, police reassured him that the manager is known for doing stuff like this.
A quick search on Facebook reveals that the owner, Chris Behney, has quite a reputation: Others stopped by the comment section of PennLive to share their experiences and information: An investigation into the incident is ongoing, but in a world where Trump supporters start a national incident because they thought Starbucks delay in making their coffee was discrimination because the barista magically knew they were conservatives or think they shouldn t have to pay for a reusable bag because Trump won (and dissolve into a rage-filled racist rant), it s not exactly outside the realm of probability that the incident unfolded just as Bugg says.Featured image via Getty Images (Win McNamera)/screengrab