Have you ever seen something so stupid that you wish you could just go back to bed on the off-chance that it was a dream?
That s how my day has gone so far.
You know, we regularly hear from the NRA that gun owners are responsible individuals ready to leap into action and save us from all the ISISes, Commies, and other assorted (largely imaginary) bad guys who are lying in wait to attack us while we re walking around a grocery store or eating at Chipotle (though, of course, the food there might be seen as a reasonable threat these days).
In some incredibly rare circumstances, it might be useful to have a gun.
But, as usual, one of the NRA s Chosen has reminded us that the risks of universal gun ownership far outweigh the benefits.A woman who reportedly lives in the Southern United States didn t like that her kids disobey her, practically live on social media, and basically are teenagers.
While most parents would take their children s electronics to teach them some respect, this unnamed woman decided a SECOND AMENDMENT SOLUTION was in order so she grabbed her shotgun and began shootin stuff while someone else recorded.
I hereby denounce the effects that social media have on my children, the mom shouts at the beginning of the video, her trusty boomstick ready to dish out some justice.
Their disobedience and their disrespect.
She then takes aim at her children s iPhones and fires a shot, blasting them to bits.
She then instructs the man behind the camera to place the broken bits of electronics back on the tree stump because she isn t quite through with them yet.Up to this point, the kids have been quite disrespectful, cursing at her and even flipping their mother the bird.
In other words, she is likely right that they deserve punishment but she continues to take things to the extreme I refuse to be cursed, she bellows.
I refuse to be disobeyed.
I take back my role as your parent.
This shining example of much of what is wrong with America then instructs the cameraman to make sure the kids are on camera and they can be seen standing with their arms crossed as their mother continues to go insane.
One of them throws up both middle fingers because he s exactly the sort of kid someone like this would raise.
She fires another shot, blowing the already-destroyed cell phones to even smaller bits.
Anything left put it on top, she tells the cameraman who dutifully obeys.
Mom then announces that she refuses to have them influenced in negative ways like, hypothetically, if their mother were to line them up and force her children to watch her shoot their belongings while screaming like a crazy woman.
She wouldn t stand for that.
Oh, wait To emphasize her point, she grabbed a sledgehammer and beat the fragments of the phones with it.
I m done, she yelled as she dropped the hammer and walked away.It s easy for some to imagine a world in which everyone is armed but they fail to realize that people like this woman exist, who think a Second Amendment Solution is appropriate for even the most mundane of scenarios.
She was not defending her home, saving lives, hunting, or even fighting back against an oppressive government.
She used her weapon in an apparently failed attempt to intimidate her children (but let s face it: everyone in this scenario is an asshole).
Fortunately, no one was hurt, but someone could have been.
Watch it below:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qxbMlVPThp0Featured image via screengrab