Picture it.
A marginalized but divinely inspired individual (Michele Bachmann) makes the HUGE discovery that the Bible predicts a global conspiracy.
It s engineered by the Antichrist (President Obama) to get the world to declare war on Israel, steal their energy and usher in the end of the world.
Will Michele be able to beat the odds and save us all from destruction?SPOILER ALERT She already did.
It seriously sounds like the plot to a 99 cent movie in the discount DVD bin, but sadly it isn t anything so harmless.
Right Wing Watch reported that America s most adorable prophetic savior, Michele Bachmann, announced how the Bible told her the Syrian civil war is just a false flag operation to cover up a plan by Obama to kick-start Armageddon.
Bachmann also said that world leaders were set to grant legitimacy to the Islamic State, Russian and Iranian intervention in Syria was a setup to invade Israel by those nations and China will be helping Russia and Iran to help make sure it matches biblical prophecy better.Bachmann then linked this all to President Obama becoming the Antichrist by transforming into an evil world leader secretary-general of the United Nations.
Bachmann was quoted as saying Obama would only go into an empowered, powerful UN, that was powerful enough to see the United States come under the UN s authority.
Since we won t be getting anything sensible out of Michele, Right Wing Watch thankfully found where she got her idea.
It turns out it wasn t from the Bible but from a report in the right-wing rag Investor s Business Daily.
IBD cited what may be a non-existent report from Al-Jarida that this is happening.
Al-Jarida is the same publication that suggested Obama will shoot down Israeli aircraft if they try to attack Iran, so their credibility is dubious at best.
Either way you look at it, it seems Michele saved the world yet again by letting Obama s secret out and ruining his plans.Listen to Michele Bachmann tell you about Obama, the Antichrist, and all that nonsense below:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/244927649 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]Featured image from Flickr