As much as likely all of us want elections to be cut and dry, popular vote wins all, it s just not that simple.
It s a game, and if you choose to play you have to abide by the rules, you can t change them halfway through.
Frustrating, sure?
Illegal.
No.Showing more than ever that he s a newcomer to the whole politicking world, Trump took to Twitter, yet again, to air his grievances about the political process.In yet another temper tantrum, Trump said: Just to show you how unfair Republican primary politics can be, I won the State of Louisiana and get less delegates than Cruz-Lawsuit coming.
Just to show you how unfair Republican primary politics can be, I won the State of Louisiana and get less delegates than Cruz-Lawsuit coming Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 27, 2016Well, first of all, here are the results of the Louisiana Republican primary:via New York TimesAnd yes, while he did win, as per party rules, the delegates were split, and Cruz didn t win more, he won t the same.
However, Cruz may end up picking up some more, which is probably why Trump got his Underoos in a bunch.
BUT this doesn t mean anything (at all) was done improperly.
Per the Wall Street Journal: Mr. Cruz s supporters also seized five of Louisiana s six slots on the three powerful committees that will write the rules and platform at the Republican National Convention and mediate disputes over delegates eligibility this summer in Cleveland.The little-noticed inside maneuvering that led to this outcome in Louisiana is another dramatic illustration of the inside game that could have an outsize influence on the bitter race for the GOP nomination.
Sketchy?
Yes.
Illegal?
No.
Sure, it goes to show how devious politicking can get, but in regards to Trump, well, you can t change the rules once you start playing the game.
Trump chose to enter the race as a Republican, and everything that is happening can and likely will be done to make sure Trump s not the nominee, much like with what s happening on the Democratic side.
Hell, as much as Bernie Sanders wants to complain about Democratic superdelegates, his senior adviser Tad Devine helped put together the system.
And again, you can t change the rules after you decide to play.
Both Trump and Sanders are outsiders who willfully chose to play an insiders game.
Either could have run as an independent, but both chose a party ticket for a better chance, and to their credit have done rather well.The Wall Street Journal also noted: While Mr. Trump leads in winning primary and caucus elections, and has won more delegates, the Cruz campaign is proving superior at the arcane game of picking the people who will be the actual delegates to the convention, where they will help write the rules and ultimately choose the nominee.That means that if Mr. Trump fails to reach the delegate threshold to claim the GOP nomination on the convention s first ballot, committees dominated by Cruz supporters could work to block him from winning enough delegates to claim the nomination on any subsequent ballots.
Trump can threaten to sue all he wants, or even actually sue, but at the end of the day it just goes to show how much of a political novice he truly is.
He needs to realize that while everyone else is playing Chess to skillfully maneuver their way to the nomination, he s still playing Candy Land.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images