We have always known that the Republican Party is filled with xenophobic, racist, misogynist, Islamophobic, everythingphobic imbeciles.
When President Obama was elected in 2008, this became very, very obvious as right-wingers went full-on racist because an African-American man was suddenly the most powerful leader in the world.
However, while we saw this hate all across the internet and sometimes on bumper stickers, they managed to sort of keep it under wraps.
Donald Trump changed that all last year when he skyrocketed to first place in the GOP primary by running on a platform made solely of the hate mentioned above.
In fact, he is so vile and divisive that the Huffington Post reminds their readers of it on every single article they publish about him.I was recently reading an article about Trump on the HuffPo s website when I noticed this at the bottom of the piece:Editor s note: Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims 1.6 billion members of an entire religion from entering the U.S.This struck me as odd, so I investigated it a little further and saw the Trump disclaimer on every article about the billionaire.While HuffPo has always been left-leaning, it is a well-respected news organization that is read by people across the political spectrum, that s what makes this editor s note so shocking.
When POLITICO asked the organization about their decision to add this to their articles, a spokesperson responded: Yes, we re planning to add this note to all future stories about Trump.
No other candidate has called for banning 1.6 billion people from the country!
If any other candidate makes such a proposal, we ll append a note under pieces about them.
There is no doubt that this disclaimer will make some Republicans declare the Huffington Post biased, but that s because they can t face the fact that it is true.
Trump is a serial liar, he lies seventy-six percent of the time.
He is a rampant xenophobe, just listen to what he has to say about Mexicans and refugees.
The frontrunner hates women, his feuds with conservative, Fox mouthpieceMegyn Kelly shone a bright, glaring spotlight on that.
And we all know that his proclamations about President Obama not being a real American is what originally made Trump so popular.The Huffington Post should be commended for this decision, they are the only mainstream media organization to do something this bold.Bravo, HuffPo, bravo.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images