Wow.
The cruelty of Republicans knows no bounds.Apparently, Republicans truly believe that healthcare is a privilege that only people with money should be able to receive.That s basically what Ohio GOP Rep. Warren Davidson told a mother who expressed her concern that her son won t have healthcare coverage if Republicans repeal the Affordable Care Act.The woman s son works in the service industry, which usually does not provide health insurance to workers.
Pay is also low enough that workers qualify for Medicaid, a program that Republicans fiercely oppose because it benefits low-income Americans.Prior to the passage of the Affordable Care Act, her son did not have health insurance.
He, like millions of other Americans, could not afford it.
But the Medicaid expansion finally gave him the healthcare coverage he desperately needed.
Now that is being threatened by Donald Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress.
Can you explain why my son and millions of others in his situation are not deserving of affordable, decent health care that has essential benefits so that he can stay healthy and continue working?
the mother asked Davidson at a town hall event on Tuesday.Davidson responded by giving a heartless answer that resulted in a round of boos and jeers from the crowd in attendance.
OK, I don t know anything about your son, but as you described him, his skills are focused in an industry that doesn t have the kind of options that you want him to have for health care.
So, I don t believe that these taxpayers here are entitled to give that to him.
I believe he s got the opportunity to go earn those health benefits.
First of all, service industry workers pay taxes, too.
So they have every right to be covered by Medicaid.
Second, healthcare is a right that everyone should have regardless of where they work or what industry they work in.
Third, there are not enough of the kind of jobs Davidson is talking about to provide everyone in this country with workplace-provided healthcare coverage benefits.
And finally, if Davidson and his Republican colleagues got off their asses and passed a law requiring the multi-billion dollar service industry to provide healthcare to their workers or pay their workers enough so they can afford to buy good health insurance plans themselves, this woman s son and millions of others would not have to live in fear of losing their coverage.But Davidson literally told this woman to tell her son to get a different job.
And he dug the hole deeper for himself by compare health insurance to cell phones.
If he doesn t want a catastrophic care plan, don t buy a catastrophic care plan.
If you don t want a flip-phone, don t buy a flip-phone, Davidson said.
Once again, the crowd reacted in total disgust.Buying a cell phone is NOT the same as buying health insurance, and it s time for Republicans to that through their thick skulls.Health insurance costs hundreds of dollars a month or more while a cell phone payment plan is relatively cheap.In response to Davidson s remark, the woman snapped back and then walked away with the knowledge that her own congressman doesn t give a damn about her or her family.
I m sorry, health care is much different than a cell phone and I m tired of people using cell phone analogies with health care, she said.Here s the video via YouTube.
The exchange begin at the 37 minute mark:This is why Republicans should be ousted in 2018.Featured image via screenshot