Republican frontrunner Donald Trump is in the news again for violence during one of his rallies in St. Louis and his Chicago rally was shut down amid security concerns.
The Democratic candidates had harsh words for the billionaire on Friday evening after news broke of the clashes.The violence in St. Louis left protesters bruised and bloody after rabid Trump fanboys decided that putting their hands on people who do not agree with them was appropriate.
This came just one day after a man was sucker-punched by a Trump supporter at a rally in North Carolina.After the St. Loius rally, Trump was supposed to travel to Chicago and speak to a crowd there, but cancelled after thousands of protesters showed up to shut him down.
The protesters did not want the bombastic real estate mogul sullying their town with his angry and divisive rhetoric.
It was really a sight to behold, Chicago made us proud.After the cancelling the rally, Trump made his rounds on cable news networks and pretended he had no idea why the people were fighting at his rallies.
He s such a positive guy!
He only wants to unite white people Americans.The Democratic presidential candidates, however, placed the blame squarely at Trump s feet where it belonged.Bernie Sanders spoke out during his own rally in Summit, Illinois and called for unity: What this campaign is about is bringing our people together.
Not letting Donald Trump or anybody else divide us up.
No, we are not going to hate Mexicans.
We re not gonna hate Muslims.
We re not gonna insult women.
We re not gonna insult veterans.
We re not gonna insult African-Americans.
We are gonna bring our people together Hillary Clinton released a statement on Twitter, saying, Violence has no place in our politics.
We should use our words and deeds to bring Americans together.
Violence has no place in our politics.
We should use our words and deeds to bring Americans together.
pic.twitter.com/FofjognpIA Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) March 12, 2016This is how real candidates behave.
A Republican pundit on CNN, Friday night, asked why these things never happen at Democratic rallies and implied that it was a conspiracy against Republicans.
My mouth fell open.
Violence doesn t erupt at our rallies because we didn t choose a jacka$$ reality star who has campaigned on a platform of hate.
Someone who encourages his supporters to punch protesters in the face.
That s why.Watch Bernie s statement: Featured image via video screenshot