Barbara Bush recently accompanied her youngest son to a campaign rally in New Hampshire, and judging from his performance she probably wishes she d stayed home!
Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush tried to make a joke about his childhood and instead turned it into an incredibly awkward moment for his entire family.
Even worse, he made his mother look like a child abuser.Talking to his supporters, Jeb commented on how many people tell him how much they love his mother.
Jeb s mother smiles in the audience, but quickly starts to look uncomfortable as she hears her son say, She s not as great as everybody thinks she is.
I can tell you that one.
He continued: I jokingly say, that when we were growing up in Midland and Houston that mom was fortunate not to have a child abuse hotline available, because the discipline of learning right and wrong was her doing.
Jeb then goes on about how amazing of a man his father, former president George H. W. Bush, was and almost chokes up while doing so.
You can watch this disaster of a family moment play out below: Bush has told awkward stories about his family before even about the father he speak so favorably about.
Last year, Bush disturbed a bunch of middle schoolers by venting to them about how his fear of disappointing his father would send him into a deep depression for days.
And to this day, it seems that Bush is still reliving his childhood struggles.
Last night, Bush and his mother gave an interview with CNN, which resulted in even more crippling family criticism.
During the interview, Bush s mother actually started giving Jeb advice on how he should be running for President, and shamelessly pointed out his weaknesses.
Accusing the media of not mentioning Jeb nearly as much as the other GOP candidates because he is a non-person, she said that Jeb was too nice, too polite and needed to interrupt more.
As this was happening, Jeb looked completely defeated and helplessly sat in silence.Featured image via Gage Skidmore and CBS screenshot