The hate for the Trump family by the defeated liberal press is visceral MSNBC political analyst Joan Walsh, a self-proclaimed feminist, questioned what message Ivanka Trump was trying to send at the G20 Summit by wearing a pink girly dress with bows.Walsh suggested that the dress Trump chose when sitting in for her father at the summit made her look like property and undermined her own value.
I don t mean to sound sexist, it can be dangerous to comment on what women wear, but the fact that she sat in for her father in a dress that was so incredibly ornamental was such a contradiction, Walsh said.
In patriarchal, authoritarian societies, daughters have great value.
They are property.
I think it s really pretty frightening, she continued.
It s a pink dress with big bows on the elbows that s not a dress that s made for work.
MSNBC host Thomas Roberts pushed back and asked if Walsh was suggesting that women can not dress in a feminine manner and be taken seriously.
You can be a feminist and be girly, we all have our girly days, but showing up, taking your father s seat in a pink dress with big bows on the sleeves is a really interesting message, Walsh argued.
Daily Caller Ivanka Trump-Kushner can be seen wearing the beautiful pink dress in the tweet below, that MSNBC host Joan Walsh criticized.
Pictured from left to right: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim, President Donald Trump, Ivanka Trump, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany.MSNBC's "diva of snark" Joan Walsh trashed Ivanka's 'girly dress', huh?
Any wonder MSNBC ranks 13th in its time slot?
pic.twitter.com/C57210HHWP CAP (@CAP741776) July 16, 2017Conservative actor James Woods didn t waste any time responding to the idiocy of the remarks made by the feminazi MSNBC host.
Wood s killed two birds with one stone, as he mocked the MSNBC host while also mocking the always masculine style of open-borders German Chancellor Angela Merkel.I mean, you only notice it because she's surrounded by a bunch of guys https://t.co/1r8bB2WOhM James Woods (@RealJamesWoods) July 17, 2017