It was obvious this was going to happen, but if you were holding out hope that David Cay Johnston could release Donald Trump s tax returns without facing harassment from his supporters, you will be sad to know that Trump fans are just as horrible as ever.
Ever since he broke the story, Johnston says that cowardly Trump supporters have been threatening his wife and one of his children.
Trump fans call & harass my wife & 1 of my children after I break story White House confirmed.
Sad!
Johnston wrote on Twitter.
Let s have open debate, not threats.
Trump fans call & harass my wife & 1 of my children after I break story White House confirmed.
Sad!
Let's have open debate, not threats.
David Cay Johnston (@DavidCayJ) March 15, 2017Johnston added that he is not intimidated by Trump fiends attempts to intimidate him, but that the calls to family are out of bounds, a disturbing sign of how Trump damages civil debate.
To be clear, folks, I don't intimidate.
But calls to family are out of bounds, a disturbing sign of how Trump damages civil debate.
David Cay Johnston (@DavidCayJ) March 15, 2017On top of that, he says, Trump and his less-stupid-than-Eric-but-still-stupid son have been lying to the American people about the exact taxes The Donald has paid.Trump WH confirms my report, but fakes numbers.
Trump paid $36.5m income tax, not $38 & not $40m Don Jr. claims.
False WH statements.
Sad!
David Cay Johnston (@DavidCayJ) March 15, 2017The release of Trump s taxes did not, ultimately, reveal much (in fact, the very fact that The Donald paid any taxes at all was a positive for him), but one thing is very telling: Trump s attempt to do away with the Alternative Minimum Tax is definitely centered around saving himself money:But for AMT, which Trump wants to scrap, he'd have paid a lower tax rate than the poorest of Americans under 3.5% on $152.7 million David Cay Johnston (@DavidCayJ) March 15, 2017It s unclear why Trump s followers would go after Johnston and his family over this, but once again it is the norm for the sort of person who would still support Trump.Featured image via Twitter/Getty Images (Pool)/screengrab