Actress Charlotte Rampling really stepped in it when she declared that the boycott of the Oscars by black actors was nothing more than anti-white racism.
Anyone with a pair of eyes can see that the fact that, for the second year in a row, only white actors have gotten Oscar nominations is highly suspect.
Rampling, however, said the following of the controversy: Maybe this time, no black actor or actress deserved to make it to the final selection.
Why should we always categorize people?
I think nowadays we are living in easily offended societies.
There will always be someone who s too beautiful, too black or not white enough.
Well, there s one person who spoke out against the remarks: Chelsea Clinton.
She took to her twitter account and roundly condemned the remarks, calling them outrageous, ignorant, and offensive.
Outrageous, ignorant & offensive comments from Rampling.
https://t.co/h7r1HNND5E Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) January 22, 2016The problem here is that Rampling and those who think like her have absolutely zero understanding of systemic racism and the way it works when it comes to seeping into literally every crevice of our society and lives.
Rampling, like many people suffering from white privilege, is terrified that she ll lose her throne if there s more space for others.Chelsea Clinton, however, understands just what this boycott is, and why it is so important.
It should not have taken public outcry and boycotts for the Academy to change its rules regarding voting for these awards.
That is what it took, though,and in 2016, that s a damn shame.I am just eternally grateful to Chelsea Clinton for speaking out against the likes of Charlotte Rampling and others who would squash this very important conversation.
Racism is alive and well, even in supposedly liberal Hollywood.
It is time far past time, in fact that we realized that racism didn t end with the signing of the Civil Rights Act.Thank you, Chelsea Clinton, for saying what needed to be said here.Featured image via Chelsea Clinton Twitter