CNN reporter Jeff Zeleny said on Monday that country music fans who attended the Las Vegas concert Sunday night were likely Trump supporters .
Zeleny does what the left has been saying not to do he politicizes this horrific massacre by using identity politics.
What would the left do without identity politics?
It s their go-to strategy in all situations but is particularly sickening in this tragic one.NOTE: THERE IS SOME MIC TROUBLE DURING THE VIDEO At least 50 people were killed and more than 500 were injured when gunman Stephen Paddock opened fire on country music festival attendees Sunday night from his 32nd floor room at Mandalay Bay Hotel, according to local authorities.Zeleny said Trump, in his remarks about the shooting, took on the role of being a unifier for the country.
The president, he left it to his role of being a unifier.
He did not talk about the investigation, he did not talk about the suspect, Zeleny said.Trump called on the bonds that unite us during remarks Monday morning.
In moments of tragedy and horror, America comes together as one, and it always has, he said.
We call upon the bonds that unite us, our faith, our family, and our shared values.
We call upon the bonds of citizenship, the ties of community, and the comfort of our common humanity.
Zeleny further commented on the personal connections that Trump has to the city of Las Vegas.
By saying that he will go to Las Vegas on Wednesday, by visiting this, it is something that puts him in line with what so many presidents before him have done and paid their respects.
Of course Las Vegas is a town that he is connected to, and knows well, Zeleny said.
His name is emblazoned on the top of a hotel there as well.
He campaigned there a lot.
Zeleny said, however, that the conversation after the tragedy will soon be focused on politics.
The moment here, is what comes after this.
This invariably, after today and tomorrow, will become a discussion of politics, of guns.
It s not appropriate for that moment today, he said.In the video, it appears CNN had audio problems, which caused the host to interrupt Zeleny several times.