It seems that Donald Trump is rather unpopular with the workforce that will have to answer to him if he s elected.
Despite the union representing ICE endorsing him, other federal workers in various ederal agencies view Hillary far more favorably than Trump.
That s not too terribly surprising.
What is surprising, though, is that a number of them may just up and quit their jobs if they find their agencies answering to a President Trump.A large number of them.
A recent poll, from a federal publication called Government Executive, surveyed a random sample of 1,085 federal employees across 35 agencies and found that Hillary has a commanding lead over Trump, with 53 percent saying they d vote for her vs. 35 percent saying they d vote for Trump if the election were today.Image via Government ExecutiveBut the more damning statistic was that 27 percent said they would, would consider, or might leave the federal service if Trump was elected.
That s compared to 16 percent for Hillary.
Nine percent said they didn t know what they d do if Trump was elected, compared to just five percent who said that about Hillary.Image via Government ExecutiveImage via Government ExecutiveFederal employees do tend to lean Democratic in part because their jobs are more secure, and they do better economically, under Democratic presidents rather than Republicans.
Donald Trump just adds to the GOP s woes in this area because he s a completely incompetent fool that they allowed to become their nominee.In fact, that s evidenced in another damning part of the poll.
Thirty-one percent of respondents feel that Hillary would be very effective at managing federal agencies, whereas only 18 percent feel Trump could do that job very well.
Just 27 percent said that Hillary would be not at all effective in that arena, compared to a whopping 51 percent who believe that about Trump.Image via Government ExecutiveImage via Government ExecutiveThe federal workforce is made up of more than four million people, including our 1.5 million members of the military.
Assuming everyone who resigned was in the civilian workforce, that s well over 700,000 employees who would leave under Trump.
Add the military members who could consider early retirement into that, and Trump s in a lot of trouble.
At the bare minimum, Trump would have to face a workforce that, by and large, doesn t like him, along with a quick loss of hundreds of thousands employees.As for the rest of the country, the federal workforce would then fill up with Trumpkins, which could make life worse for us even faster.
We sooo do not need a federal workforce full of deplorables.
That would be deplorable.Sure, Republicans would probably paint that as a good thing because they say we need to shrink the size of the government anyway, but the whole thing could backfire spectacularly depending on which agencies suffered the heaviest losses.But really, we can t blame them for feeling this way.
Trump would be the worst president to happen to this country.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images