Since Republicans had such a problem with President Obama going on vacation and playing golf, they ll be totally opposed to Donald Trump doing even more of both, right?Because while President Obama and his family moved into the White House and took less vacation time than any Republican president in the last 40 years, it looks like Trump wants to spend much of his term playing golf or relaxing at his gold-plated apartment in Trump Tower.According to The New York Times,Mr.
Trump, a homebody who often flew several hours late at night during the campaign so he could wake up in his own bed in Trump Tower, is talking with his advisers about how many nights a week he will spend in the White House.
He has told them he would like to do what he is used to, which is spending time in New York when he can.The questions reflect what Mr. Trump s advisers described as the president-elect s coming to grips with the fact that his life is about to change radically.
They say that Mr. Trump, who was shocked when he won the election, might spend most of the week in Washington, much like members of Congress, and return to Trump Tower or his golf course in Bedminster, N.J., or his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach on weekends.In other words, Trump isn t interested in being president full-time.
He wants to vacation and golf.
And if he gets the schedule he wants, he would end up spending 416 days away from Washington over the course of four years.
Far MORE days than the 217 days President Obama spent on vacation in eight years.And that s not even counting official vacations Trump will likely take.Furthermore, if Trump plays one round of golf every weekend, he will play more golf in two years than President Obama played during his whole first term.So while Trump is away, it s likely the responsibility of governing will be left to his advisers and cabinet members.If Donald Trump is serious about governing, he should be in Washington full-time.
Also, he should never take a vacation or play a single round of golf during his term because for years, Trump and his supporters bitched every time President Obama left the White House for just about any little thing.
And they definitely despised him for playing golf.
Doing either of these things would make Trump a hypocrite, especially since he could end up doing more of it over four years than Obama did in eight.Featured Image: Ian MacNicol/Getty Images