The European caliphate is in full swing First and foremost, it must be made clear that not all No-Go zones should be exclusively defined as areas populated by Islamic radicals.
Breitbart News has found that in several areas throughout Europe places officially or unofficially deemed no-go zones often have largely unassimilated Islamic populations where the host country s laws are difficult, if not impossible, to enforce.The French government has listed 750 areas determined to be Sensitive Urban Zones (Zones Urbaine Sensibles, or ZUS).
ZUS areas tend to have high crime, low unemployment, and drug trafficking/black market issues.
While these areas fall under one big umbrella category, a Gatestone Institute report has found that the majority of France s Islamic population lives in the Sensitive Urban Zones.
Gatestone has found several local reporters and individuals whose testimony indicates that the areas remain places where law enforcement cannot sufficiently do its job.The Swedish government has listed 186 exclusion areas, along with 55 no-go zones.
Swedish blogger Matt Danielsson has described the areas as crowded, predominantly Muslim immigrant ghettos, where education is low, employment is lower and the only local business thriving is drug dealing.
Germany s Steinke Institut (SI) has mapped 51 separate areas which have been explained as law-free and with high danger potential.
The German website Politically Incorrect evaluation found that the vast majority of them had troublesome problems having something to do with the I-word (Islam), Andrew Harrod reported.
Germany s chief of police admitted in 2011 that these are areas where crimes no longer result in charges They are left to themselves.
UK Independence Party (UKIP) leader Nigel Farage has said that British leaders too have been afraid to tackle Islam-oriented issues in the UK, and allowed for big ghettos to develop.
Regarding the no-go zones versus Sensitive Urban Zones argument, Farage explained that the issue was a matter of semantics.
He said that the British and French governments have failed to accept that there s a massive problem with lack of integration.
CBS s 60 Minutes show sent a crew to London and found that the streets are an alternate reality at night where Sharia patrols bully people who are drinking alcohol, people who they think are homosexuals, and women who aren t fully covered by clothing.
Additionally, the UK s Islamic population is twice as likely to join the Islamic State terror group than the UK armed forces.Belgium also has several de facto no-go zones where police are putting themselves at risk simply for entering.
In the Belgian city of Flanders, a police officer who recently attempted to make an arrest was met with fierce resistance by a Muslim mob, which hurled rocks at him.
In order to restore order, the officer had to come back later in the day with dozens of other police units.In the Netherlands, the government has released a list of 40 no-go zones.
Many of the areas deemed no-go zones boast a large Islamic population where police struggle to enforce the law.Furthermore, some regions in Russia commonly known as hotbeds for radical Islam, including Chechnya and Dagestan, have been described as a virtual no-go zone for Russians and tourists.
Via:Breitbart News