Well, that didn t take long Nancy Pelosi went on a unhinged angry rant at Republicans for blaming yesterday s shooting on left-wing rhetoric.
While she doesn t say it s appropriate to talk about she goes on to rant at Republicans for any comment blaming Democrats: Somewhere in the 90 s the Republicans went on the politics of personal destruction Here s the second part of Pelosi s ridiculous response:The gunman who shot Steve Scalise was a strong political supporter of Bernie Sanders.
He had a Facebook page and twitter account full of hate for Republicans and President Trump.
Anyone with half a brain would know this man committed this heinous crime for political reasons.
Nancy Pelosi acts innocent in all this hate and political terrorism when she was just recorded laughing at the California DNC Chair flipping off President Trump and saying, F*ck Trump!
: A reporter asked: Can you comment on the possibility that this incident could be used against Democrats or the Democratic Party politically because the assailant was apparently motivated by some kind of anti-Republican sentiment and we have heard comments from Republicans, including Congress, about vitriol rhetoric from the left being in some way to blame?
Pelosi responded with the most idiotic comment: The comments made by my Republican colleagues are outrageous.
Beneath of the dignity of the job they hold, beneath the dignity of the respect we would like Congress to command.
How dare they say such a thing.
How dare they Pelosi went on to point out the past rhetoric that came from Republicans, including President Donald Trump.
Probably as we sit here, they re running caricatures of me and Georgia once again of over $100 million, of vitriolic things they say that resulted in calls to my home constantly, threats in front of my grandchildren really predicated on their comments and their paid ads, Pelosi said.
So this sick individual does something despicable, and it was horrible what he did, hateful, but for them to all of a sudden be sanctimonious as if they ve never seen such a thing before and I don t even want to go into the president of the United States.
But in terms of some of the language that he has used So, again, let s go there another day.
This woman needs to retire PRONTO!