It s not just people tied to alleged president Donald Trump s campaign and administration who are linked to Russia, it s also his eldest son.
According to the Wall Street Journal, Donald Trump Jr. was likely paid at least $50,000 for an appearance late last year before a French think tank whose founder and wife are allies of the Russian government in efforts to end the war in Syria.On Oct. 11 at the Ritz Hotel in Paris, hosted by the Center of Political and Foreign Affairs, Trump s son addressed a dinner.We re not sure how a murderous thug like Vladimir Putin would be nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize:Its president, Fabien Baussart, and his Syrian-born wife, Randa Kassis, have cooperated with Russia in its drive to end the Syrian civil war, according to U.S., European and Arab officials.
In December, Mr. Baussart formally nominated Russian President Vladimir Putin for the Nobel Peace Prize.Mrs.
Kassis is a leader of a political faction endorsed by Russia in negotiations to end the war in Syria.
The couple said they don t represent Russia and are solely focused on ending the Syrian conflict.
Donald Trump Jr. has been participating in business-related speaking engagements for over a decade discussing a range of topics including sharing his entrepreneurial experiences and offering career specific advice, the company s vice-president for marketing said.But it appears to be about more than sharing experiences.Mrs.
Kassis heads a political party, the Movement for a Pluralistic Society, which is part of a faction endorsed by Russia in international negotiations aimed at ending the six-year Syrian conflict.
She regularly visits Moscow to coordinate policy with Russia s Foreign Ministry, said Arab and European officials, and portrayed in Russian state media.In interviews, Mrs. Kassis said she stressed to Donald Trump Jr. in October the need for the U.S. and Russia to cooperate in ending the Syrian conflict.
She said she passed on Mr. Trump s views to Russian diplomats in subsequent trips she s made to Moscow.Embattled Attorney General is the seventh person associated with Trump s campaign or administration with ties to Russia.
Sessions lied under oath, saying that he had not spoken with Russian officials while working on Trump s campaign.
Trump s son s financial connection to an entity associated with the Kremlin brings up even more questions.Donald Trump s financial debt to Russia, along with allegations that Russia is blackmailing him, and his pro-Russian political policies while praising Vladimir Putin, make the issue of releasing his taxes even more important now.
American banks stopped lending the former reality show star money.
Deutsche Bank, an entity who has loaned Donald a hell of a lot of money, was recently fined 502m over Russia money laundering claims.There s a reason so many Americans were concerned over Trump s massive amount of conflicts of interest.
One of them being that he could be beholden to a hostile foreign entity such as Russia.
But, Trump supporters wanted a man with zero political experience in office, some of them doing so in the belief that their candidate would create jobs.
So far, Trump has created weekend vacations for himself, scandals and held thank you rallies.
#MAGA!Photo by John Moore/Getty Images.