Just a week after a Prince from Qatar was in hot water for racing his Ferrari down the streets of LA, a Saudi Prince is arrested for sexual assault.
This case will be one to watch since the Prince doesn t have diplomatic immunity in this case.A bleeding woman screaming for help was seen attempting to scale an 8-foot-high wall before a Saudi prince was arrested this week on suspicion of trying to force a worker to perform a sex act on him at his hillside compound near Beverly Hills.Police were called to the gated property in the Beverly Glen area, within a gated community on Wallingford Drive, after a caretaker at the home reported a disturbance, officials said.
After officers interviewed people inside, a 28-year-old man identified as Saudi prince Majed Abdulaziz Al-Saud was arrested on suspicion of forced oral copulation of an adult.Neighbor Tennyson Collins said a resident reported seeing a bleeding woman scream for help as she tried to scale the property s wall Wednesday afternoon.When Collins drove home from work after 1:30 p.m., police followed his car through the gates and onto the property, which he described as a compound.
The website Zillow valued the 22,000-square-foot property at $37 million.Officers escorted about 20 people out of the house, many of them staff, Collins said.Police said Al-Saud was renting the home.
Collins said various foreign nationals have been renting out the property for weeks at a time over the last year but that the biggest incident up to Wednesday had been a raucous party or two.
One person who rented out the home stationed armed guards at the gates, he said.
Obviously neighbors aren t happy about it, but it is what it is, Collins said of the international visitors.Al-Saud was booked and freed on $300,000 bail Thursday afternoon, jail records show.
He could not immediately be reached for comment.LAPD Officer Drake Madison said Al-Saud was booked after 4 p.m.The LAPD has a consul liaison division that checks with foreign nations consulates regarding diplomatic immunity, said Capt.
Tina Nieto.
Police determined Al-Saud does not have immunity in this case, she said.Some foreign royalty do have diplomatic immunity, but it depends on the dignitary s status in his home country s government and the level of the offense he commits in the U.S., she said.Jail records show Al-Saud is scheduled to appear in court Oct. 19.Attempts to reach the State Department and the Saudi Embassy in Los Angeles were not successful Thursday afternoon.Via: Hollywood Reporter