A few days after the Planned Parenthood shooting in Colorado Springs that left three dead and twelve injured, the National Rifle Association (NRA) released the dumbest pro-gun commercial likely ever seen.
In the months since the commercial was released and in the aftermath of more mass shootings, it has popped up on my television screen multiple times.
Every single time I see it my brain melts a little at the sheer absurdity of it.It is titled, Demons At Our Door, (ooohhh scary) and begins with a close-up of a somber NRA Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre.
He starts out saying, You and I didn t choose to be targets in the age of terror As he is speaking ominous music is playing in the background with black and white photos of ordinary American scenes flash across the screen.
He continues: But innocents like us will continue to be slaughtered no amount of bloodshed will every satisfy the demons among us They will come to where we worship, where we educate and where we live.
He s so right!
They have!Dylann Roof walked into a church and murdered nine people with a firearm while they prayed.
Adam Lanza marched into Sandy Hook Elementary School and gunned down twenty first-graders and six educators.
Shawn Fuller filled his three- and four-year-old sons bodies with bullets in North Carolina last summer.Gun crazy ammosexuals are murdering our children, mothers, fathers, friends, etc.
constantly and no amount of bloodshed has satisfied these people.
Never fear, though, Wayne has a solution for us: But when evil knocks on our doors, Americans have a power that no other people on the planet share Tell me more, Savior LaPierre!
The full-throated right to defend our families and ourselves with our Second Amendment.
Wait WTF?
MOAR GUNZ!
Really?
How is that going to solve the problem?Obviously, I realize that he is fearmongering about scary Mooslims murdering innocent Americans, but it sure didn t sound like it.
He perfectly described the right-wing gun lunatics who have waged a campaign of terror on us for decades.
Nobody is safe from LaPierre s brethren and no place has been sacred to them.The people we need to fear in this country are not Muslims, they are the people he is actively encouraging to arm themselves.
He and his organization are the reason so many of us are dying.
His hypocrisy is mind-blowing.Watch it below:Featured image via video screenshot