This is hilarious and sad.Ever since New Jersey Governor Chris Christie became Trump s personal whipping boy by endorsing him despite having nothing but bad things to say about the Republican nominee throughout the primary he has been repeatedly humiliated.In February, Trump told his lap dog to leave the stage and go home and a hot mic caught the whole exchange.
Get on the plane and go home.
It s over there.
Go home, Trump told Christie, who replied, Okay.
In March, Trump totally embarrassed Christie again during an attack against Ohio Governor John Kasich.
Kasich is such a bad governor, Trump claimed, that he may be even worse than Christie.
It was a burn that Trump used as Christie was standing nearby.And in May, Trump went on a rant about Nabisco moving a factory to Mexico.
As he vowed not to eat another Oreo, Trump pointed directly at Christie and told him that he can t eat Oreos anymore either.
Neither is Chris!
You re not eating Oreos anymore!
Trump declared.Now Donald Trump is once again humiliating Chris Christie, who, again, is a sitting governor.
This time a story has emerged of Chris Christie being relegated to nothing more than Trump s personal food delivery boy.According to Ryan Lizza of The New Yorker,Governor Chris Christie, of New Jersey, another of Trump s opponents early in the campaign, has transformed himself into a sort of manservant, who is constantly with Trump at events.
(One Republican told me that a friend of his on the Trump campaign used Snapchat to send him a video of Christie fetching Trump s McDonald s order.
)Yes, apparently there might actually be a video of Chris Christie picking up Trump s order from McDonald s which clearly make Christie the laughingstock of Republican Party.This is man who claimed to be a leader.
This is a man who is infamous for being a bully.
But he has been reduced to being nothing more than the head of fast-food delivery for the Trump campaign.
That s pathetic and the people of New Jersey deserve better.Featured Image: Sean Rayford/Getty Images modified