Fox News own military expert blasted Donald Trump, too, but saved his most devastating shot for Ted Cruz.During an appearance on Kennedy on Thursday night, Lieutenant Colonel Ralph Peters ripped into the Republican presidential candidates for pushing ridiculous military strategies to take out ISIS.Trump has suggested using nuclear weapons while Cruz has chosen carpet bombing as his plan of action, both of which would violate international law and US law.Carpet bombing in areas with high concentrations of people such as in cities and villages is considered a war crime by the Geneva Convention, of which the United States is a signatory nation.
Using nuclear weapons, meanwhile, would cause destruction on a scale that would draw serious condemnations from our allies and would also be a war crime if dropped on a city.Both ideas are so bad, in fact, that even Fox s own right-wing military expert smacked them down and lambasted them for not only not having served in the military but for not doing any research.
None of the political wannabes, none of the aspirants have done their homework.
None served in the military they re all too important but at least do your homework, guys.
Now if you want to use a nuclear weapon on Islamic State, tell me: What s the target?
What s the operational advantage?
How would you deal with the ramifications for allies?
It s the kind of thing people throw out there, and it s just goofy loose talk.
But Peters also went on to specifically target Ted Cruz.
When Ted Cruz talks about carpet bombing, I get the sense he thinks it s dropping carpets out of an airplane, Peters said.
You ve got to know what the basic terms mean.
Peters and Kennedy both had a good laugh at Cruz s expense talking about how he ll probably load up planes with debris taken from homes and drop it on unsuspecting people in the Middle East.
I ve got all these remnants from when I redid my guest house!
I ll just drop em on ISIS!
Kennedy said.
Exactly, Carpet Warehouse, Peters replied.
But seriously, there was one point where I really got angry.
And then Peters set his sights on Trump.
When Trump was challenged about the military and him giving an unlawful order, and the military not obeying it, he said, Oh, they ll obey it.
Well no, Mr. Trump our military takes an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States.
They obey the lawful orders of the Commander-in-Chief.
But if the Commander-in-Chief, the president, ever gives an order that conflicts with the Constitution, the Constitution winds hands down, every time.
So I just wish these guys would you know, come on, if you won t do the homework, guys, get your staffers to do some for you.
In short, Cruz and Trump do not possess the ability to lead our military.
They would use our armed forces to commit war crimes and would cause a constitutional crisis by giving orders to the military that our soldiers would likely refuse to follow.Ralph Peters may be a right-winger who constantly disrespects President Obama, but he s on point about Trump and Cruz and their inability to be a competent commander-in-chief.Featured image: Flickr