If you were one of the many political junkies crossing your fingers and hoping Donald Trump would attend the White House Correspondents Dinner this year, you are about to be disappointed.
The Republican frontrunner recently announced that he has turned down all of the invitations he has received because of the media.
I was asked by every single group of media available to mankind [to attend this year].
But I ve decided not to go.
Do you know why?
I would have a good time and the press would say I look like I wasn t having a good time.
Donald Trump attended the 2011 Correspondents Dinner and President Obama hammered him over and over and over.
He even had a photo of what the White House would look like if the billionaire was ever elected president, complete with Trump scrawled across the top of it.Image via screenshotBut Trump is claiming that his decision not to attend has nothing to do with President Obama repeatedly making him the butt of his jokes; it was instead the mean press fault: I had a great time.
I was very honored by all of the attention.
The president told joke after joke and it was good.
They were all very nice and delivered nicely and I had a great time and told the press.
For four years, I ve read what a miserable time I had The press is dishonest.
If the press would be honest, I d go because I d have a good time.
But no matter how good a time I had, the press would say, Donald Trump was miserable.
What would I need that for?
Honestly, it really doesn t matter if it was the president trolling him or the media talking about his angry face throughout the dinner that is keeping him from attending it speaks to a much larger problem he has: Trump is completely incapable of taking criticism even in jest.
He claims that he wants to run this country, but he can t handle anyone who isn t kissing his ass talking about him.
And when people do say something about him, he lashes out like a toddler who was just told he cannot swing on the curtains.
How is he ever going to deal with the scrutiny that comes with the highest office in the United States if he can t brush the big bad press off?Watch President Obama roast Trump at the 2011 Dinner:Featured image via Kristoffer Tripplaar-Pool; Scott Olson/Getty Images