Prior to being on Donald Trump s campaign, and later his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon ran Breitbart news.
That particular internet news outlet is known for its promotion of racism, misogyny, anti-Semitism, and other various forms of overt bigotry.
They have also always been huge Trump supporters.
However, that may be changing now that Bannon is out as Trump s White House Chief Strategist.According to journalist Gabriel Sherman, Breitbart is about to unleash to the full force of far-right media on the Trump Administration.
Bannon could be set to return to Breitbart, where he will wage a full-on war on Trump s quote, Democrat White House.
Source close to Bannon confirms Bannon expected to return to Breitbart after a WH exit Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) August 18, 2017Bannon friend says Breitbart ramping up for war against Trump.
"It's now a Democrat White House," source says.
Gabriel Sherman (@gabrielsherman) August 18, 2017Now, with his racist, xenophobic, anti-immigrant, anti-LGBTQ views, Trump is far from being in line with the mainstream Democratic Party.
The fact remains, though, that Trump himself was once a Democrat and that is not ancient history.
His own kids couldn t vote for him in the GOP primaries because they forgot to unregister as Democrats and re-register as Republicans.
He has given money to top Democrats like Chuck Schumer and Hillary Clinton.
Further, two of Trump s most trusted confidantes, Ivanka and Jared, are huge supporters of traditional Democratic causes, such as LGBTQ rights, climate change action, and women s right to choose.So, we can expect a shift to the left if Trump listens to his daughter and son-in-law with Bannon gone, and therefore we can expect ripe fruit for infighting between right-wing media and the Trump White House.
It really does seem as if the GOP made a Faustian deal with their proverbial devil, and they are losing.
That s terrible for Trump but great for America.Pop your popcorn folks, and keep watching.
This is about to get VERY interesting.
Let s just hope the republic survives it.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images