Donald Trump just got his ass handed to him by a Gold Star father for signing the despicable Muslim ban.Kahzir Khan is the father of Captain Humayun Khan, an American soldier who sacrificed his life in Iraq in 2004 for his fellow soldiers when he was killed by a car bomb that was intended to kill hundreds of American troops at the guard post he was inspecting.Captain Khan is buried at Arlington National Cemetery with the star and crescent adorning his gravestone.
He was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart for his heroism and has become a shining example of why Donald Trump s attacks against Muslims are bullshit.During an appearance on MSNBC with Joy Reid, Kahzir Khan had strong words in response to Donald Trump s Muslim ban, which has caused worldwide chaos as travelers from seven nations have been detained or prevented from entering the country.
Even green card holders are being detained.The executive order is a direct violation of the Constitution because it targets people based on religious beliefs, which is why Khan once again talked about his son.
I am so saddened for my country, for my nation, for the country and nation for which we have fought and that we continue to defend, Khan told Reid.
I invite Donald Trump and his racist and his Islamophobe coterie to go to the Arlington Cemetery and go to section 60, face all the tombstones there and if they have any shame, any shame at all, they should refrain from this un-American activity, un-American banning of Muslims, patriotic Muslims coming to the United states.
And he didn t stop there.
Khan continued slamming Trump and Republicans for abandoning the Constitution and humanitarianism.
We are equal citizens and we will remain equal citizens.
We defend the values of this country.
We defend the Constitution of this country and we will remain standing also on our side, the majority of this country on our side.
Donald Trump never got the majority votes of this country, we have the majority vote of this country.
This is the time for Republicans to stand up for their values, otherwise like Donald Trump they will be part of this dark chapter that he s trying to write, that he has surrounded himself with unpatriotic Americans.
Khan even took Trump minions Kellyanne Conway and Steve Bannon to the woodshed.
They are operating my country, they are running this government by anecdotes, by alternative facts.
What is that?
This is how they are going to be dealing with the dignity of this country, the dignity of this nation?
This country, this nation still remains a beacon of hope and we will stand in their way now and forever to not let them violate the basic foundations, the basic values of this country.
The majority of this country is on our side and these protests are a reflection of that.
They should get used to it and they should begin to understand what true America is, the true values of this country.
We remain standing and we shall prevail.
This is an ugly chapter, this is an ugly beginning but we will fix it.
Here s the video via VidMe.Thousands of Muslims serve our country and risk their lives for our freedom every day.
But this ban only serves as propaganda for ISIS and other terrorist organizations to use as a recruitment tool.Terrorists can point to this ban and say that America hates Muslims and we will pay the price for it.
And so will our troops.
Donald Trump is not making America safe.
He giving terrorists a reason to kill more Americans like Captain Khan.Featured image via screenshot