Donald Trump s campaign currently has a leadership that is under fire for more than a few scandals.
On Sunday, Chuck Todd blasted Trump s running mate Mike Pence for hiring both Steve Bannon of Breitbart, a right-wing reactionary media site, and Roger Ailes of Fox News.
Bannon is facing allegations of anti-Semitism and Ailes for sexually harassing what now seems like every woman who ever stepped foot in his office: Quick question about the leadership of the campaign, there s been some troubling allegations both against Steve Bannon, somethings he may have said about Jewish people, some things that may have happened between him and his wife, Todd said during a broadcast of Meet the Press.
There s been troubling allegations having to do with Roger Ailes.
Both of whom are apparently advisers to this campaign.
Are you comfortable with that considering some of the allegations you ve read against both of these men?
Are you comfortable with their involvement in this campaign?
I promise you the person leading Donald Trump s campaign is Donald Trump, Pence responds.
He and I talk every day, sometimes several times a day.
He is he is a hands on leader and a hands on CEO.
Todd then goes on to question Pence further, asking him it is, appropriate for Roger Ailes to be involved?
I trust Donald Trump s judgment to assemble around this team a group that s going to help us move forward and be successful and win, Pence says.
And come on, I mean, Steve Bannon has denied all of those allegations Todd then interjects to say, Some are in court records.
I mean, look, I know look, divorces are divorces.
But it s troubling allegations, people are going to look and say, all right, Steve Bannon and then you see all these allegations against Roger Ailes, it just feels as if there s does he ignore troubling allegations against people that work for him?
I trust Donald Trump to assemble a team around him in this campaign has he has and will continue to.
You ll continue to see people added to this campaign, Pence says.Pence s claim that we ll see more people added to his campaign staff has me wondering who Trump will hire next.
Martin Shkreli seems like he would fit in with the rest of Trump s campaign compadres.
At this point, it wouldn t even be shocking to see Trump hire George Zimmerman to spearhead his outreach efforts to voters of color.What Todd doesn t go into is the fact that a presidential candidate has officially aligned himself with two major players in the media.
While Ailes may have resigned as the chairman and CEO of Fox News due to his inability to give women in his employment their basic human rights, he still remains on of the most powerful men in the news industry.
So powerful in fact, that Rupert Murdoch has gone on record as saying that Ailes is responsible for the success of Trump s campaign thus far.
Then there is Bannon, who is on a temporary leave from his position as the CEO of Breitbart, a staple site in propagating bizarre right-wing conspiracies and white supremacist narratives.What this amounts to is the collusion two of the largest private dispensers of information in the world working with a fascist billionaire to try and take control of the wealthiest and most influential nation in the world.
This current situation should serve as a warning to the entire left-wing that in the era of neoliberalist domination, corporations have the power to convince millions of people to vote for an administration that would rather turn the United States into sacrifice zone, rather than lose a profit.You can watch the clip below:Featured image via video screenshot