When high-profile women like Sarah Palin stay silent, it enables sexual predators and puts more women at risk of being sexually harassed and assaulted.As Fox News continues to reel in the aftermath of Bill O Reilly s sexual harassment scandal just a year after the network dealt with Roger Ailes own sexual harassment scandal, former contributors and anchors have been coming forward to tell their stories of how they were treated by their male colleagues there.But not Sarah Palin.
Palin would rather pretend that nothing happened to her and that her male colleagues were totally professional and considerate.During an interview with Jake Tapper on CNN, Palin danced around the question of whether she experienced sexual harassment at the network and made it sound like her decision to leave Fox News was more about looking for different opportunities.TAPPER: It sounds like you experienced something.
PALIN: I just you know, it was just time to part ways and, and, you know, get get out there in, I guess, a more diverse arena to express views.
In fact, Palin had far stronger words for the victims who were repeatedly sexually harassed at Fox News than she did for the perpetrators.
If a woman believes that she is being intimidated and harassed, she needs to stand up and do something about it and not stick around for a paycheck for years and years and years, and then after the fact complain about what she went through.
Sarah Palin collected a paycheck for five years (2010-2015) from Fox News as a contributor and analyst.The sexual harassment was there from the start.In 2010, Fox News Sunday host Chris Wallace remarked that one can only hope when asked if Palin would be sitting in his lap during an upcoming interview.
Seriously.In 2011, Roger Ailes openly admitted that he only hired Palin because she was hot and got ratings.
Tucker Carlson, who has been with Fox News since 2009 and was just recently promoted to take Bill O Reilly s place, posted an incredibly sexist tweet about Palin in 2011 that he was forced to delete.
Palin s popularity falling in Iowa, but maintains lead to become supreme commander in Milfistan, Carlson wrote.In other words, things haven t changed much at all at Fox News.
The network merely fired an old sexual predator and replaced him with a younger one.If Palin faced this much sexual harassment at the beginning it stands to reason that she faced it constantly throughout her time at the network.
And she drew a paycheck for years without doing something about it and she continues to do nothing about it.
She is protecting Fox News by staying silent and that puts women who still work there at risk.Palin then went on to shame other women who haven t spoken up and once again demonstrated that she is a hypocrite.
As a strong woman, I say we should feel more empowered than that and take a stand and get out of the place and blow the whistle on the perpetrator doing the bad stuff so that the culture will change.
But Palin herself refused to speak up and blow the whistle on the men who sexually harassed her at Fox News, and she just got done shaming the women who have come forward to actually blow the whistle.This is why Sarah Palin has zero credibility and why she is not a good role model for women.Featured Image: Screenshot