Remember when Republican front runner Donald Trump made a huge fuss in January about skipping a GOP debate in Iowa and holding a fundraiser for veterans instead?
Well, some people are scratching their heads and asking where all those donations really went.Just days after his fundraiser, Trump was bragging about how much money he was able to raise.
At a campaign rally in Iowa, Trump boasted, One hour.
Six million dollars.
According to the business mogul, there were over 20 groups that the money would benefit.
Trump said, These people that get these checks are amazing people, amazing people.
But it s been several weeks since the fundraiser, and a summary released on Thursday by Trump s campaign reports that only about $3 million has been donated to the charities Trump listed.
Where s the other half?After Trump s campaign would not give details about where the donations had gone, the Washington Post contacted every single one of those 24 veterans charities, asking them how much they d received from Trump.
The Post said the numbers only added up to less than half of the $6 million.
And The Post was being generous According to CNN s investigation, the network could only account for $800,000 and not all of it was directly from Trump!
Here s the report from CNN:After these investigations, Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks criticized the media for its curiosity and said that the rest of the money would eventually be released to the veterans groups, but she didn t specify when: If the media spent half as much time highlighting the work of these groups and how our veterans have been so mistreated, rather than trying to disparage Mr. Trump s generosity for a totally unsolicited gesture for which he had no obligation, we would all be better for it.
For the veterans groups that were promised donations, the situation has been more than frustrating.
For many of these organizations, a donation like the ones they were promised could be life-altering.
Keith David from the Task Force Dagger Foundation one of the veterans groups that Trump said he would be disbursing the money to, asked, Where s the rest of the money going?
David s group received a check for only $50,000 a small amount considering how much money Trump had actually promised the groups.
David said with reasonable concern, There s a large chunk missing.
I m just kind of curious as to where that money went.
I d like to see some of it come to us, because we are on the list.
Because of the missing donations, questions are being raised about how much longer Trump will keep the donated money in his personal charity, the Donald J. Trump Foundation, which gives donations to boost his political brand.
Meanwhile, Trump continues to brag about the fact that he is self-funding my own campaign I don t think I get enough credit for self-funding.
But what Trump doesn t tell us is that his self-funding isn t really self-funded at all.Most of Trump s funding is actually from candidate loans , which Trump must pay off with donations from individual contributors and he s struggling.
In January, the same month Trump s veteran fundraiser was held, Trump got $12.6 million in candidate loans, but only $4.9 million was raised from his donors.If Trump is concerned about his opponents calling him a con artist, he s certainly doing a great job validating their insults.