Virginia s Trump campaign chairman politicized the Dallas shootings in one of the worst ways imaginable.
He didn t use it to call for more guns on the streets.
He didn t use it to claim reverse racism.
He tried to make it all about the 2016 election and Hillary Clinton, and it s really sick.Corey Stewart said, in a post that s since been deleted:Like Joe Effing Walsh, Stuart has forgotten that the Internet never forgets, and this will follow him and King Donnie for awhile, despite spokeswoman Hope Hicks attempt to mitigate fallout from this: Corey does not speak for the campaign and this is not something we agree with.
The vice president of Trump s Virginia campaign, John Fredericks, echoed that empty sentiment with an empty sentiment of his own: That statement by Corey Stewart is his and his alone.
Oh, really?
They better tell that to their overlord.
While Donald the Trump didn t come right out and blame Hillary for the deaths of those officers like Stewart did, he did go after her for taking softball questions about her emails on CNN on a day of national tragedy.
Because Hillary can totally control what CNN decides to ask her:Isn t it sad that on a day of national tragedy Hillary Clinton is answering softball questions about her email lies on @CNN?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 8, 2016Isn t it sad that on a day of national tragedy Donald Trump and his campaign decide to make the whole thing all about Hillary?
This is how you politicize a tragedy by bringing up your opponent in a damned political race and using the tragedy to attack them.It is truly hypocritical that our wannabe White-Supremacist-in-Chief would say something like that when he and one of his campaign officials are busy politicizing all of this in the sickest way imaginable.
Calling for more good guys with guns would be less political than this.
It just goes to prove that all Trump really cares about his himself and his campaign, and that he hires people who will help him with that.
Neither Trump nor Stewart really care about those dead officers, or all those dead black people.Featured image by LibandJustice.
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Commons