A United Methodist minister, Rev.
Bill Shillady is set to publish a book of daily Bible devotionals on August 15 2017.
The book titled, Strong for a Moment Like This is said to be inspired by the verses regularly sent to Hillary Rodham Clinton when she was running for president.It will include 365 of the over 600 devotions as well as a forward by Clinton herself.
The book s devotions are organized into 12 themes, such as forgiveness, doing good, courage, and women.A portion of the proceeds from the book will go to the United Methodist City Society in New York.
Praise The World RadioYEAH..Okay.
A portion of the proceeds from the book will go to a church related organization, so where will the rest of the proceeds go?
It s now been revealed that the pastor who s so enamored with Hillary Clinton, the woman who was seen frequently in church during the campaign, compared her election loss to President Trump to the death of Jesus Christ.WFB Hillary Clinton s pastor compared her loss to Donald Trump to the death of Jesus Christ in a message he sent her the day after the November 2016 election.
You, our nation, our world, is experiencing a black Friday, Rev.
Bill Shillady wrote to Clinton on Nov. 9, 2016, CNN reported.
Our hope is that Sunday is coming.
But it might well be hell for a while.
On Good Friday every year, Christians observe the crucifixion and death of Jesus, who they believe to be the Son of God.
Two days later, they celebrate Easter Sunday, which marks the Resurrection of Jesus and the triumph over sin.One day after Clinton s stunning defeat at the hands of Trump, Shillady wrote that life is filled with a lot of Fridays and Good Friday represented the day that everything fell apart.
Today, you are experiencing a Friday.
Your Friday is what happened in the last few weeks and last night in the tragic loss.
But Sunday is coming!
Shillady wrote.Shillady went on to write about the suffering of Jesus for the world s sins and how his faith in God gave him the grace and peace to submit to Friday.
Friday is finished, he wrote.
Sunday is coming.
Death will be shattered.
Hope will be restored.
But first, we must live through the darkness and seeming hopelessness of Friday.
Clinton, a Methodist, has reportedly discussed making her own spirituality more public, and Shillady has said she would make a great pastor.
Watch Pastor Shillady attempt to get the Democrat Party to pray at the DNC convention.
Notice how he starts the prayer by saying, Lord of many names .
Even after many attempts to quiet the crowd and asking them to stop throwing balloons in front of his face while he prays, the mostly godless Democrats would have nothing to do with it Notice the tight shots the cameramen are forced to take because so few people in the audience are praying with the pastor.
How very sad