Trump s war on the media isn t earning him any allies, and now it s cost him one of the biggest, most well-known conservative outlets we ve got: The Wall Street Journal.
Their editorial board published their opinion (paywall) of Trump late Sunday afternoon, and they didn t hold back at all.
The cutting editorial tells Trump to shape up, or ship out.WSJ blasts Trump for his reliance on his rally turnouts and social media followings for indications of how he s doing.
They blast his refusal to actually work in the battleground states.
They blast the disorganization and sheer incompetence of his campaign and his unpopularity: Mr. Trump has alienated his party and he isn t running a competent campaign.
Mrs. Clinton is the second most unpopular presidential nominee in history after Mr. Trump.
But rather than reassure voters and try to repair his image, the New Yorker has spent the last three weeks giving his critics more ammunition.
Keep in mind that WSJ isn t anything like close to liberal.
They re fun to cite when their stories contradict typical right-wing talking points because they lean so far to the right.
Now, though, it looks like they feel The Donald has betrayed them: Even with more than 80 days left, Mr. Trump s window for a turnaround is closing.
The Trump pivot always seemed implausible given his lifelong instincts and habits, but Mr. Trump promised Republicans.
At some point I ll be so presidential that you people will be so bored, and I ll come back as a presidential person, and instead of 10,000 people I ll have about 150 people and they ll say, boy, he really looks presidential, he said in April.
And then they ended with an ultimatum: If [his supporters] can t get Mr. Trump to change his act by Labor Day, the GOP will have no choice but to write off the nominee as hopeless and focus on salvaging the Senate and House and other down-ballot races.
As for Mr. Trump, he needs to stop blaming everyone else and decide if he wants to behave like someone who wants to be President or turn the nomination over to Mike Pence.
WSJ obviously doesn t want to see Hillary elected because the Democrats hardly represent conservative views.
However, as far as they re concerned, any Republican would be better than Trump at this point.
No candidate has been in this position, at this point in an election cycle, in the modern polling era, and gone on to win the November election.
His window for a turnaround may actually be gone.From Trump s point of view, this editorial is likely going down as more of the very biased press lying about him.
He spent seven tweets blasting the press, and claimed he d be way ahead of Hillary if the media would stop protecting her and cover him honestly and fairly.The only honest and fair media in Trumpland is the media that says he s the God of Being Right About Everything.
His followers have all been transported to Trumpland, and they re eating up his complaints about the media like candy.
Trump does not see any reason to change when his followers worship him, and when he thinks they re a sufficient measure of his progress.He should keep this in mind: You know you re in bad shape when you re a Republican and the Wall Street Journal is this unhappy with you.Featured image by Jeff Swensen/Getty Images