THE CLEANSING OF OUR HISTORY CONTINUES What the heck is wrong with the city of Memphis??
?Late Tuesday, the Memphis, Tennessee, City Council voted unanimously to dig up the remains of Confederate General Nathan Bedford Forrest and his wife, Talking Points Memo reported Wednesday.
The council also voted to remove a statue placed in Forrest s honor.
The move came after Mayor A.C. Wharton called for the bodies to be dug up and relocated.Tuesday s vote is not the end of the story, however.
According to WREG, the Chancery Court would also have to approve the removal of the remains and Forrest s family would also be involved in the decision.Forrest and his wife are currently buried beneath a statute honoring the general in a park which had been named after him until two years ago.
The park is now known as Memphis Health Sciences Park.Officials with Elmwood Cemetery the location of Forrest s original resting place said they would be willing to help move the remains but said they did not want to become the new home of the statue.
It is not known where the statue would go if the Tennessee Historic Commission approves its removal.
The commission is not set to meet before October.
It is no longer politically correct to glorify someone who was a slave trader, someone who was a racist, on public property, said City Council member Myron Lowery.
WREG said Lowery spearheaded the effort to remove Forrest, his wife and the statue.
The move to relocate Forrest is part of what many now see as a Stalinist effort to purge U.S. history after the tragic shooting in a Charleston, South Carolina church that left nine dead.Not everyone is celebrating the vote, however.
Lee Millar, a spokesperson for the Sons of the Confederate Veterans, said the shooting proves the need for the statue to remain.
I think it s disgusting that people use the shooting in Charleston and use those victims to forward their own agenda and join this anti-Confederate hysteria that s going on, he said.
To attack something like that now I feel is just really misguided, he added, calling the response in Memphis and other places a knee-jerk reaction.Katherine Blalock, an area resident whose great grandfather served with Forrest in the Confederate Army, agreed.
We need to have a coming together of people, not a divide and conquer, she said.But it seems that dividing the country is exactly what some want.
Not content with removing the Confederate battle flag from the national memory, some now want to see the Jefferson Memorial taken down.
Retail stores have yanked the battle flag and the House has voted to forbid sales of the battle flag at National Parks.
As we reported Wednesday, one former academic called the U.S. Constitution a Confederate symbol and said it should be edited.Via: examiner