Sunday night, an ABC News affiliate in New York began their show with a startling breaking news announcement from weekend anchor Joe Torres: Hillary Clinton was dead.
We begin with the breaking news about Hillary Clinton s death They were talking about her health, and dove right on into her leaving a 9/11 memorial on Sunday after feeling light-headed.
Then her campaign released the news that she was battling pneumonia, and then this happened.
That has since been edited out, but remains up on YouTube for now.
Watch the original report below:WABC 7 clarified the mistake later on.
They told TVSpy that Torres had misspoken and meant to say health, which anyone with more than two brain cells, who watched the whole report, would have figured out: During a live introduction to a story about the health of Hillary Clinton, Joe Torres inadvertently said death when he meant to say health.'
a station spokesperson said.
It was clear from the context of the story, the reporters information and graphics on the screen that Secretary Clinton was alive and recovering.'
Both the original story and the edit have tripped the conspiracy loons sensors anyway, though, because why let reason get in the way of a good Hillary conspiracy?
So now they re going nuts.
Some are convinced that ABC edited that out to cover up the fact that she did actually die, and that the campaign is using a body double to cover it up: A video clip of WABC-TV Channel 7 Eyewitness News in New York City opened last night with Anchorman Joe Torre saying more on Hillary Clinton s Death.
The opening line, however, seems edited-OUT of the video archive!Did Hillary die after leaving the 9-11 Ceremony in New York .
.
.
and the information is being concealed?
A whole slew of irregularities have cropped-up indicating that may actually be the case!BODY DOUBLE?A short time later, a person ALLEGED to be Hillary, is seen leaving the East 26th Street home of Chelsea Clinton, but there are problems with this person.
The conspiracy baloney never ends with this crowd, does it?
Here s another that s just certain she really died: Now it looks like the story has gotten even worse.
Based on rogue reports, it is now our understanding that Hillary Rodham Clinton may in fact be dead.Yes, you read that correct.
After airing on ABC news in New York for merely seconds, it was pulled from the air.This isn t a random report.
Don t believe it?
We didn t believe it at first either, until we saw an additional report of the same exact occurrence: At this point, we don t have all the news.All we know for sure is that Hillary Clinton may have actually died at a local hospital in New York City.
It doesn t help that David Shuster tweeted that DNC operatives were informing him that the committee would hold an emergency meeting to discuss Hillary s replacement.
That tweet was later deleted and replaced with one saying that they were considering a meeting to discuss replacing her.Furthermore, all the heretofore-unknown doctors across the Internet who are coming out of the woodwork to loudly proclaim that her pneumonia means she s at death s door don t seem to know some basic facts: 1) Pneumonia is fluid in the lungs, and 2), there are eleventy billion things that can cause it.
Some are serious, some are very serious, some are not-so serious.Donna Brazile, the interim DNC chair, said that they re looking forward to Hillary s speedy recovery and return to the campaign trail, essentially destroying Shuster s tweets and the stories of those who piled on to that.
It also destroys the absurd notion that she actually died, but hey, conspiracy nuts will think what they want.
Despite what the Hillary-haters are hoping, she is alive and well and recovering.
She s not at death s door, and she s certainly not dead.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video