Nobody shouted all lives matter until people started saying, black lives matter.
There s an easy, albeit disgusting, reason for that and it s because the all lives matter crowd is uncomfortable with actually focusing on massive social problems that they perpetuate.
Also, the crowd that tends to shout all lives matter, is overwhelmingly, white, straight, cisgender, and Judeo-Christian.But all lives matter isn t racist, sexist, religion-phobic, transphobic, homophobic, or anything at all to this crowd.There s a Facebook post making the rounds that describes the hypocrisy of this white, straight, cis, Judeo-Christian crowd that s feeling left out because we say black lives matter.
It s absolutely brilliant.
It s so brilliant that it s easier to post it than it is to explain it.Image via FacebookAnd there is the hypocrisy in all its vile glory.
Holloman s take on all lives matter is amazing.
All lives do not matter.
The only lives that matter to the all lives matter crowd are those of the straight, white, cis, Judeo-Christian crowd.
They wouldn t know the meaning of the word all if it came up and spit fire in their faces.Explaining why all lives matter is such a terrible thing to say first takes convincing that particular crowd that there s even a problem.
White people who like that phrase won t acknowledge there s a problem, as recent, blatant racism from various officials has demonstrated.
So saying the black community is still oppressed, and floating statistics, telling stories, even getting first-hand accounts and testimonials to prove it, is a massive waste of time.These analogies might be a waste of time, too, but they explain it a little better:#AllLivesMatter is like I go to the Dr for a broken arm and he says All Bones Matter ok but right now let s take care of this broken one Belac Micheal (@djsoap92) July 6, 2016saying #AllLivesMatter is like running through a cancer fundraiser & saying THERE S OTHER DISEASES TOO judes (@judychen_) July 8, 2016#AllLivesMatter is like someone tweeting Pray for Nice and I say what about all the other cities in the world?
They ve suffered too Nomnso (@Nomnso_94) July 15, 2016Or, if these aren t enough, how about this?
Your house is on fire and the fire department is pouring water on it, trying to put the fire out.
Your neighbor, whose house isn t burning, comes over and says, My house needs water too, hellooooo!!
Why are we ignoring my house and focusing only on yours?!
What are you going to say?In short, black lives matter is calling attention to an emergency situation like the ones above.
Black lives do not matter nearly as much as white lives, and it s a serious problem.
But Holloman s post illustrates not just the ignorance and offensiveness of all lives matter, but it shines a very uncomfortable light on those who continue to utter that phrase.Holloman is right.
They really don t know what all means.Featured image by Mark Makela/Getty Images