America is falling in love with Melania Trump.
You can t help but notice how Melania lights up every time she is around children.
Her trip to a local hospital in Rome was no exception.
Melania used her special gift of speaking fluently in 5 languages to speak in Italian to the young patients.
Melania shined around the sick children and they responded with smiles.
Melania s visit with sick children at the hospital in Rome was captured in this AP video:While the media was busy obsessing over her veil and celebrities ignorantly mocked her modest clothing choice during a trip to the Vatican, the First Lady was busy praying over sick children and it seems at least one of her prayers may have been answered.In fact, mere hours after Mrs. Trump prayed over a little boy whose heart was failing, doctors told her they had found a donated heart that could end up saving his life.
But you won t hear that on your nightly news.After she and her husband, President Donald Trump, visited the Vatican to meet with Pope Francis this week, it came out in the news that Mrs. Trump is, in fact, a practicing Catholic.In their travels to the Holy See, Mrs. Trump also visited a Bambin Ges Hospital, a Vatican-supported hospital in Rome.
There, Melania met with many of the pediatric ward s sick children, taking pictures with them and reading them books before spending some time praying at the hospital chapel, the Daily Mail reported.
If that wasn t awesome enough, Mrs. Trump, who s fluent in five languages, also reportedly spoke to the children in their native Italian.The article added she left heartfelt, handwritten messages for the children before she left.But something else very special happened at that hospital the First Lady also reportedly prayed by the bedside of a little Greek boy who s been waiting on a heart transplant.On Wednesday, just hours after spending time together, FLOTUS tweeted from her official account that she d been told doctors had identified a donor heart for the little boy.
MRCTVA little boy who I visited today & had been waiting for a heart transplant will be receiving one!
#Blessings #Faith pic.twitter.com/DZU3ojxXVC Melania Trump (@FLOTUS) May 24, 2017Melania thanked the doctors and staff for the amazing job they do at the Vatican-supported Bambin Ges Hospital and asked her 7.2 million followers on Twitter to pray for the patients: Thank you @bambinogesu for the heroic work you do.
I ask that everyone keep these amazing children in your thoughts & prayers.
pic.twitter.com/UfVAc9lXv2 Melania Trump (@FLOTUS) May 24, 2017The United States is blessed to have a first lady who doesn t just use the church as a backdrop for a photo-op.
With the number of people practicing religion in America dropping, it s refreshing to see a first lady, vice president and president who are unafraid to openly and genuinely express their faith to the world