Whenever big news happens in Washington, the nation (at least those in desperate need of entertainment) awaits the response of just one man: Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas).
Gohmert almost never disappoints with the depth of his stupidity and he certainly didn t on Thursday, when he yelled at the Democratic Congresspeople who were conducting a sit-in in support of gun control.The sit-in lasted a bit over 24 hours, and it was in protest to the four failed attempts at gun control in the Senate and of Speaker Paul Ryan s (R-Wisconsin) refusal to even let a gun control measure get a debate or vote.Gohmert, who received more than $13,000 in contributions from the National Rifle Association, thought the Congresspeople were protesting the wrong thing.
According to him, Islam is responsible for our country s mass shootings.
We are talking about radical Islam!
Gohmert yelled, waving his finger at posters featuring photos of the victims of the recent mass shooting at an Orlando, Florida gay club.
Radical Islam killed these people!
Gohmert was shouted down by Democrats chanting, No fly, no gun!
and Don t let terrorists have a gun!
Source: Talking Points MemoSure, we can call our gun problem a terrorism problem.
G-d knows it s terrifying Americans, but it s not a Muslim problem.
The vast majority of mass shooters are white men without a political agenda.
As we learn more and more about the Orlando shooter, we are coming to realize that his association to terrorism is sketchy at best.
Instead, it seems, he was a spurned self-hating gay man.If that s the case, that he is a self-loathing gay man and that s all the shooting was about, that indicates a societal problem one which Gohmert, a man who seems to obsess over whether being gay is God s will is at least partially responsible for.
The bigger picture, though, is that all of our mass shootings, as a matter of fact, all of our nation s shootings period, have one thing in common and that s guns.
In our current political climate, there isn t a chance in hell that people will give up all guns, but there s a chance, albeit a slim one, that maybe we could stop the sale of assault weapons to violent people.
That s all Congress wants.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla at Getty Images.