Donald Trump is a consummate liar.
He lies so much that it appears that his strategy is to tell enough lies that there s no way the media fact checkers can keep up.
Well, the second largest paper in the country, the Wall Street Journal, has thrown in the towel.
Their editor-in-chief, Gerard Baker, says that determining if Trump is lying is no longer their job and that it will be up to us.
I d be careful about using the word, lie.
Lie implies much more than just saying something that s false.
It implies a deliberate intent to mislead, Baker told Chuck Todd on Meet the Press on Sunday.As an example, Baker cited one of Trump s more outrageous lies: When he claimed that thousands of Muslims in New Jersey gathered on rooftops to celebrate 9/11.
Baker noted that the WSJ investigated his claim and found it baseless.
I think it s then up to the reader to make up their own mind to say, This is what Donald Trump says.
This is what a reliable, trustworthy news organization reports.
And you know what?
I don t think that s true.
I think if you start ascribing a moral intent, as it were, to someone by saying that they ve lied, I think you run the risk that you look like you are, like you re not being objective, he said.Source: Think ProgressHere s the video:The Wall Street Journal was purchased by News Corp in 2007.
They are the same company that owns Fox News.
Fox News, with its previous We Report, You Decide motto, deserves much of the blame for the fact that the media no longer does its job and instead relies on the both sides fallacy in covering real news.
For example, there is only one legitimate side when discussing climate change, yet Fox has somehow convinced Americans that it s up for debate.Despite Fox s insistence that they present both sides of the story, they don t, and they are hardly beacons of truth.
According to reports, about 60 percent of the facts Fox reports are complete lies and Fox viewers are far more likely to vote Republican than are other cable news watchers.While Fox News targets voters, the Wall Street Journal targets the business world.
If Trump s lies go unchecked on Wall Street, it could wreak havoc with our financial markets.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video