One of the ringleaders of the terror-minded militia group who are illegally occupying a National Park service building got a six figure loan from the government the same government that they accuse of being a despotic, criminal enterprise.Ammon Bundy, the son of rogue Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, heads the group and has been their front man in communication with the press.
He already tasted the national standoff when his father refused to pay his bill to the Bureau of Land Management, even after using the government land for his personal enrichment.It turns out that despite the Bundy rhetoric about government and its supposed encroachment into their personal liberty, they were not above putting their hands out for some green.Ammon Bundy runs a Phoenix-based company called Valet Fleet Services LLC, which specializes in repairing and maintaining fleets of semitrucks throughout Arizona.
On April 15, 2010 Tax Day, as it happens Bundy s business borrowed $530,000 through a Small Business Administration loan guarantee program.
The available public record does not indicate what the loan was used for or whether it was repaid.
The SBA website notes that this loan guarantee was issued under a program to aid small businesses which are unable to obtain financing in the private credit marketplace.
The government estimated that this subsidy could cost taxpayers $22,419.
Bundy did not respond to an email request for comment about the SBA loan.This is the same sort of mindset we ve seen for years and years on the mainstream right.
Out of one side of the mouth comes words condemning the government, often attacking those who have sought help from the government particularly ethnic minorities who dare to receive government support, even temporarily.
From the other side of the mouth they are more than willing to build their personal fortunes on top of government help and assistance.
Help for me, not for thee.
They may as well be part of the Tea Party crowd demanding that the government take its hands off Medicare.Featured image via YouTube