Sometimes all you can do is laugh at the stupidity of Fox News, which is exactly what Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders just did when discussing taxes for the wealthy and ridiculous wealth inequality.The Democratic presidential candidate appeared on Fox News with Chris Wallace this past Sunday, and one of the things that the Fox host tried to grill Sanders on was to question the claim that the economy is rigged for the one percent.Wallace tried to make his point by pointing out that in 1981 the top one percent paid 17% of all federal income taxes, as compared to now where they pay 37%.
However, he clearly doesn t understand math, which actually falls right into Sanders argument that the system is, in fact, rigged for the very wealthy to keep getting wealthier without paying their fair share of taxes.Wallace asks Sanders: If the wealthy have rigged the system, why have they done such a lousy job of it?
This is when Bernie literally laughs out loud and responds to the condescending Wallace: Ohhh, Chris.
I think you re missing the major point here, and that is, what we have seen in recent years is a huge transfer of wealth from the middle class to the top one tenth of one percent whose percentage of wealth in America has doubled.
We re talking about trillions of dollars going from the middle class to the top one tenth of one percent.
Wallace then tries to blame President Obama, because of course, but Sanders responds: These are policies that have gone on for a long long time under Republican administrations and Democratic administrations.
Now, are we better off today than we were when President Bush left office and we were losing 800,000 jobs a month?
Of course we are.
But for the last 40 years what we have been seeing is a middle class disappearing, people working longer hours for low wages, and today, as it happens, 58% of all new income is going to the top one percent.
That s a rigged economy to my mind, Chris.
And if they are earning 58% of all new income, they should be paying 58% of all tax revenue, but they re not.
The system is rigged for them to get away with paying less and less with a lower tax burden due to loopholes and deductions those who make FAR less don t get the opportunity to take advantage of.Sanders is exactly right, and good for him for laughing in the face of Fox News.
It s about time someone did.Featured image from YouTube