When they go low we go high.
Michelle Obama famously used this quote to explain the difference between Democrats and Republicans at the DNC convention.
Sadly, the Democrat Party has proven time and time again, that nothing could be further from the truth.Television writer Jen Statsky tweeted Saturday the people who support President Trump should have their children taken away.light reminder that being president of the US means nothing anymore, if you support Trump you should have your children taken away, etc etc Jen Statsky (@jenstatsky) October 1, 2017Yesterday s tweet by the woman who writes for the Parks and Rec show as well as The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon, was not the first time she ventured into the bowels of humanity to come up with a vile comment in order to satisfy her angry and vile base of leftist supporters.
Here are a couple of examples, starting with the time she thought touring the country looking for fistfights with people who voted for Trump might be a good use of her time.A tour of the country where I fistfight people who voted for Donald Trump, is that a good use of my time?
Jen Statsky (@jenstatsky) January 10, 2017To which, one of her fans replied with an image of a boxing glove lined with barbed wire.
How very tolerant.
This tweet only confirms what we already know, using violence to fight anyone who disagrees with them is one of the first tenants of being a Democrat:Only if you wear these pic.twitter.com/JXVaR0PMGb Drew Brown (@brewdrown) January 10, 2017In this tweet, Statsky wishes cancer on Donald Trump, husband, father of 5 and grandfather to 9 grandchildren, and oh yeah, the man most of America chose as their leader.I know things seem grim right now, but let's remain optimistic: maybe Trump will get cancer?
Jen Statsky (@jenstatsky) July 25, 2016Once again, Statsky s classy followers didn t disappoint with their responses:The most luxurious tumors you've ever seen.
Cod dependence (@geoffglaab) July 25, 2016In this tweet, Statsky suggests that if you voted for Trump, you should drink bleach .quick reminder that if you voted for Trump you should drink bleach Jen Statsky (@jenstatsky) May 15, 2017This classy fan suggests Trump supporters could follow up the bleach with a draino chaser .
For anyone who didn t catch it, Drano is spelled incorrectly, but we re pretty sure you already knew anyone who would respond in such a manner isn t the sharpest knife in the drawer anyhow.With a draino chaser emmalu (@emmalu) May 15, 2017And one last ignorant response from the guy who uses the disgraced pedophile Democrat Anthony Weiner as his profile pic, who just wants to clarify that Statsky is, in fact, wanting us to put bleach in their drinks for them, right?
He goes on to call it what it is, poison terrorism suggesting they could poison Trump supporters at those fly-over Old Country Buffets.
One has to wonder if this guy shouldn t be getting a visit from law enforcement:u want us to put bleach in their drinks for them, right?
Inciting poison terrorism at those fly-over country Old Country Buffets SuperSparky (@SuperSparky101) October 1, 2017h/t Daily Caller