On the day of the Iowa Caucus, Sarah Palin visited the Today Show to stump for her new best friend, Donald Trump.
Unfortunately, Palin seemed under the impression that she was allowed to dictate what the hosts asked her about.
Hosts Matt Lauer and Savannah Guthrie weren t having it.Palin, who often claims the media is against her by asking her questions she doesn t know the answers to, got off to a rocky start almost immediately, when the hosts challenged her on several issues that made both Trump and Palin look like raging hypocrites.
At one point, a frustrated Palin asked the hosts Who are we to judge one another s level of Christian faith?
the scalding steam of irony coming from a person who once spent a great deal of time trying to suggest President Obama was a secret Muslim was hot enough to melt steel.But things took a dramatic turn when Guthrie asked about her son Track, who was recently just arrested for beating his girlfriend and threatening to shoot himself in the head with an AR-15.
Palin, ever the spindoctor, blamed the ugly incident on wait for it Obama.
At a Trump rally, the one time vice presidential candidate claimed Track came back from Iraq messed up because Obama didn t respect the troops enough.When Guthrie asked her to clarify those baffling remarks, Palin became extremely angry.
You guys brought me here to talk about Iowa politics and the caucus tonight, not to talk about my kids, she fired back.
And that was a promise.
But as things go in the world of media, you guys don t always keep your promises, evidently, Palin added.Watch @SarahPalinUSA speak out on TODAY in exclusive interview.
#IowaTODAY https://t.co/Kbol2A7w9x TODAY (@TODAYshow) February 1, 2016She went on to claim the media lied when they said she blamed Obama then IMMEDIATELY doubled down.
What I have blamed President Obama in doing, she said, putting her foot slowly in her mouth on live television, is this level of disrespect for the United States military that is made manifest in gutting budgets and not trying to beef it up and let our military do the job that they are trained to do.
To be clear, the budgets that Obama has cut have been on the level of wasteful spending on, say, military vehicles that even the Pentagon says it didn t need.
On the flipside, Republicans in congress have killed the budget for supporting veterans, like Palin s son, when they come home.
Repeatedly, conservative lawmakers have cited big government and out of control spending to justify slashing funds to Veteran s Affairs and other bills meant to help wounded servicemembers.
There is certainly a lack of respect for the soldiers coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan but it s not coming from the White House.As usual, Palin uses her own victim-complex serve as a security blanket she can hide under when questions get to tough.
Palin has repeatedly blamed President Obama for hurting the troops.
That s a serious accusation and a fair one for reporters to question.
The criticisms themselves may be pathetic, but her refusal to tolerate any pushback on them is even more embarrassing.If Trump had hoped Palin would be a big asset to his campaign, so far it hasn t appeared that way.
At almost every appearance, Palin s performance has been a trainwreck.
On the TODAY show, she was at least able to string two sentences together without devolving into a hopeless wordsalad, but it s pretty sad that this is considered a victory for her.
She still came across looking angry, bitter, and clueless.Featured image via video screen capture