It s no secret that Californians aren t really fans of Donald Trump and Trump can t stand California.
California rejected Trump during the election by a whopping 30 percent margin.
In turn, Trump has called the most populous state in the union, out of control, and threatened to withhold money if they don t bend to Trump s will.
California s governor, Jerry Brown, on Meet the Press on Sunday, said Trump would be picking a fight with the wrong governor.At specific issue is that fact that many of California s cities are sanctuary cities, which means it s safe for undocumented residents to report crimes without fear of deportation.
Now, anyone with half a brain knows that people reporting crimes is one of the biggest weapons against criminals, but Trump tells his supporters that sanctuary cities are hotbeds of danger.
They aren t. In fact because people can report crime, they are typically safer.California is not backing down to Trump s bullying.
If he pulls funding from California, California is going to retaliate and that s the last thing Trump wants.
We do have something called the ninth and the tenth amendment, he stated.
The federal government just can t arbitrarily for political reasons punish the State of California, that s number one.
Number two, California is America.
We re 12 percent.
We re a key part.
The export capital going into the Pacific.
We re the innovation capital, high tech, agriculture, 40 to 50 billion dollar industry.
You don t want to mess with California because you re going to mess with the economy, and that could blow up in your face in a gigantic recession, and roll the Republicans right out of this town.
Source: NBC NewsHere s the video: Brown isn t just talking out his you-know-what.
Without California, the country is in a whole lot of hurt.
Not only is it the largest state, it s also the 6th largest economy in the world.
Its economy surpasses France and India.
Or, if Trump voters need to see something a bit more tangible, let s just say that without California, the cost of food (if you can find it) will go through the roof.California produces a sizable majority of many American fruits, vegetables, and nuts: 99 percent of artichokes, 99 percent of walnuts, 97 percent of kiwis, 97 percent of plums, 95 percent of celery, 95 percent of garlic, 89 percent of cauliflower, 71 percent of spinach, and 69 percent of carrots (and the list goes on and on).Without California, supply of all these products in the United States and abroad would dip, and in the first few years, a few might be nearly impossible to find.
Orchard-based products in particular, such as nuts and some fruits, would take many years to spring back.Price surges would eventually become the larger issue.
Rising prices would force Americans to consume more grains, which are locked in a complicated price-dependent relationship with fresh fruits, vegetables, and meats.
When the price of produce increases, people eat more grain.
When the price of grain drops, people eat more fruits and vegetables.
(In fact, in some parts of the world, wheat and rice are the only proven Giffen goods a product in which decreasing prices lead to decreasing demand.)
Young people and the poor in America, more than others, eat less fresh food when prices rise.Source: SlateBeyond that, though, could you imagine, if just once, President Obama threatened to pull funding from, let s say, Texas a state which was consistently hostile to the Democratic President.
Republicans and many Democrats would have had a fit and they would have been right.
Donald Trump works for us, all of us, not just the people who voted for him.
It s time he learn that and Jerry Brown is the perfect person to teach the lesson.Featured image via video screen capture.