Europe s new new take on our Statue of Liberty s poem: Give us your Sharia Law enforcers, your rapists and your trained ISIS jihadi s Unless we get a new President with a backbone and fight back against political correctness in America we re next.
We can start by exposing the lie Obama told Americans about the Muslim invasion of the West, calling the male refugees looking for a free ride, widows and orphans!
As many as 5,000 trained jihadis are believed to be living freely in Europe today, according to the head of the European Union s policing agency Europol.Agency head Ron Wainwright said between 3,000 and 5,000 jihadis who have trained with the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) in the Middle East have been able to slip back into Europe.
Europe is currently facing the highest terror threat in more than 10 years, Wainwright said, speaking to the Germany newspaper Neue Osnabrucker Zeitung.
We can expect [ISIS] or other religious terror groups to stage an attack somewhere in Europe with the aim of achieving mass casualties among the civilian population.
However, Wainwright said reports that the Islamic State is using the refugee/migrant crisis to sneak jihadis into Europe have been exaggerated.
There is no concrete evidence terrorists are systematically using the flow of refugees to infiltrate Europe, he commented.Meanwhile, in Hungary, police reported an increasing number of migrants have been able to circumvent the four-meter, barbed-wire fence to enter the country illegally.
In January, 550 people were caught trying to pass the fence compared to 270 in December.
During the first 20 days of February, 1,200 people were caught.Those that have succeeded have either cut the fence or climber over it.Also in Hungary, the central bank recently bought 112 handguns and 200,000 rounds of ammunition for its security company.
The National Bank of Hungary justified its purchases citing potential terrorist threats as well as the migrant crisis.The bank controls the country s monetary policy, including price stability and exchange rates, and manages Hungary s foreign-exchange reserves.
Its profits are paid into the government s budget and its losses are covered by taxpayers.Via: ClarionProjecth/t UK Daily Mail