One of Trump s minions just embarrassed herself on CNN and everyone laughed at her.During a discussion on Friday night, Trump supporter Gina Loudon had the gall to repeatedly claim that the Republican nominee is not a sexist or a racist and even denied much of the factual evidence presented by the other panelists as proof that she is wrong.
Words matter, Symone Sanders told Loudon.
Donald Trump is running for president of the United States, okay?
So, his words are extremely important because as president, your words I mean we can talk about the fact he s discriminated against African-Americans, Latinos in this country, Muslims Loudon cut her off by demanding to know when Donald Trump ever discriminated against these groups of people even though there is video tape of Trump calling Mexicans rapists and calling for banning Muslims from entering the country just because of their religion.Bakari Sellers chimed in by citing Trump s discrimination against black people on housing applications.
Trump even had to settle the lawsuit because he knew he would lose.
Trump also called for the death penalty for the Central Park Five even though they were later found innocent.
Gina was asking one simple questions about actions, Sellers began.
And Donald Trump s actions, and when has he discriminated so I decided we can recite a few of his actions.
We can go to his housing discrimination lawsuits, in which he had to settle not one, but two, because he literally marked C on applications for colored.
We can go to the Central Park Five in which he took ads out for these five people But once again, Loudon denied that Trump ever did these things.LOUDON: Donald Trump had nothing do with that!
LEMON: Wait, wait wait.
You said Donald Trump had nothing to do with taking out ads on the Central Park Five?
LOUDON: Donald Trump himself.
It was not Donald Trump himself.
Loudon also denied that Trump mocked a disabled New York Times reporter despite the fact that there is video of him doing it, which drew laughter from the panelists, Don Lemon, and even from people in the studio off camera.
Stop.
Stop it y alls, Lemon said in an effort to settle everyone down.
People in the studio are even laughing.
But Lemon had a hard time doing so because Loudon just droned on about how Donald Trump is a saint and how Hillary Clinton is guilty of everything.
Lemon just smiled and rested his head on his hand.Here s the video via VidMe.Trump s supporters are so desperate that they are denying facts and evidence at every turn.
They are trying to fool America into thinking that Trump has a clean slate.
This is what we can expect from now until the election on November 8th.Featured Image: Screenshot