The irony in this entire cancellation of a tradition in Portland, Oregon is that now the Antifa (Anti Fascists) have pissed off the more moderate lefties.
One group was going to speak at the parade event against white supremacy but now they won t get the chance.
It s turning out that the Antifa group is more violent than any other radical group we ve known.
They re even selling knives on their website!
A threatening email has derailed one of the Portland Rose Festival s signature events, and spurred new debate about the ongoing political protests in Portland.Organizers of the 82nd Avenue of Roses Parade announced Tuesday that the event will be canceled, for fear that the east Portland parade could be disrupted by the type of riots which happen in downtown Portland.
(see video below)Originally scheduled this Saturday, April 29, the parade is meant to highlight the local community and businesses along Southeast 82nd Avenue, aiming to turn around the negative perception many people have of the area.
It started in 2007 and has since become a popular event on the Rose Festival calendar.This year s parade was once again set to feature the Multnomah County Republican Party as one of the many groups slated to march, but that inclusion drew ire from some of the city s left-leaning protest groups.At least two protests were planned for the day of the parade, one by Oregon Students Empowered and another by Direct Action Alliance.
Both events were mentioned in an email sent to parade organizers on Saturday, threatening to shut down the event with hundreds of protesters in the street.
You have seen how much power we have downtown and that the police cannot stop us from shutting down roads so please consider your decision wisely, the anonymous email said, telling organizers they could cancel the Republican group s registration or else face action from protesters.
This is non-negotiable.
The parade is organized by the 82nd Avenue of Roses Business Association, a part of the neighborhood business organization Venture Portland.
Representatives from neither organization returned calls for comment.The cancelation isn t necessarily a win for the protest groups.
Jacob Bureros, an organizer with the Direct Action Alliance, said the organization which intended to speak out against fascism and white supremacy during the parade is sad to hear the news.
We are disappointed that the parade was canceled, he said.
We re members of this community and this is an awesome parade.
James Buchal, chairman of the Multnomah County Republican Party, said his group was ready to march despite the protesters.
He said the party had no hand in cancelling the event, and was taken by surprise when they heard the news.
After seeing the email last weekend, they had no plans to back out.
We weren t willing to just walk away quietly, he said.
The next thing we knew the whole thing was canceled.
The problem is the police said they couldn t offer additional security for the parade so the organizers backed out.
We know the Portland Police Department can move to stop this type of activity.Check out this recent shut down of protesters blocking a bus in downtown Portland:Portland protesters were doing the usual idiotic tactic of blocking the street and not letting traffic proceed What they didn t realize is that the police aren t taking this anymore Watch the takedown of these punks Awesome!Check out the lady with the thumbs up!
Haha!
Read more: Oregon Live