If Rudy Giuliani is going to continue bringing up 9/11, he should at least have the common decency to not lie about what happened that day and in the aftermath.After all, thousands of pictures were taken that day and in the days after in addition to hundreds of videos.
So one would think Giuliani would know better than to blatantly lie.But that s exactly what he did during a rally in Florida on Wednesday in support of serial groper Donald Trump.
Don t tell me if you said that you remember September 11, 2001, Giuliani said in reference to Hillary talking about being in the city.
I remember September 11, 2001.
Yes, yes, you helped to get benefits for the people who were injured that day.
But I heard her say that she was there that day.
I was there that day, I don t remember seeing Hillary Clinton there.
That was like when she said she had to run through gunfire.
That turned out to be, what do we call it?
A lie.
But don t tell me that you subscribe to the notion that all of us who were there on September 11, and we re lucky to have been alive and lost so many friends.
I lost so many friends on September 11, I think about it every day.
Don t tell me you belong to our very, very tight group of never forget.
Don t tell me that.
Here s the video via Twitter.Rudy Giuliani: I was there on 9/11, I don t remember seeing Hillary Clinton there.
https://t.co/iRB09cQ8eH ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 12, 2016Hillary Clinton was serving her first year as a United States Senator representing New York at the time the planes hit the Twin Towers on 9/11.
She was in Washington D.C. heading to the Senate when evacuations were underway.The next day, Hillary went to New York City to stand in solidarity with Giuliani and Governor George Pataki, both Republicans, and tour the devastation.As for Giuliani never seeing Hillary, a single photo makes everything pretty damn clear as my colleague Oliver Willis pointed out On Twitter.
I don t remember seeing Hillary Clinton on 9/11 Rudy Giuliani, just now.
Look to your left, Rudy.
pic.twitter.com/zJbVFMDhuf Oliver Willis (@owillis) October 12, 2016 Look to the left, indeed.It s completely unfair for Republicans to pretend that they were the only ones who went through 9/11.
The fact is that the entire country went through it, even if they were not physically there.
Besides, Hillary was in our nation s capital that day when terrorists flew a plane into the Pentagon.But, hey, at least Giuliani s memory is improving.
Only a few weeks ago he forgot that 9/11 ever happened.Featured Image: Jeff Swensen/Getty Images