It s Memorial Day, which means that most across the country will be Barbecuing, spending time at the beach or just relaxing.
Others are being reverent, remembering those who were lost during the nation s numerous wars.
There s a new tradition, though, and conservatives won t be happy.
The tradition is to burn the Confederate flag.It started lat year and it wasn t big.
Several, including artists, and anyone who hates the tradition of Southern racism, joined together in an attempt to enlighten the world on what the Confederate flag stands for.
The confederate flag is the N-word on a pole, said Sarasota, Florida, artist John Sims, who coordinated symbolic burials of the Confederate flag on Monday in the 13 states represented by the stars of the flag, including Tennessee, Kentucky, Louisiana and Mississippi.
Source: IB TimesThis year, organizer John Sims hopes that the movement will spread.
Last year, it was over just 13 cities.
This year, it could be nationwide, although you don t see a lot of Confederate flags outside of the South.
So, Sims has made it easier.
He s created a Burn and Bury kit that can be downloaded.
You don t even have to buy anything.
You can print it.While this will definitely anger Trump voters (watch for lots of cries of political correctness.
), that s not why Sims is doing it.
He, like so many in this country, hate what the flag stands for.Southern heritage groups like the Sons of Confederate Veterans have failed to recognized the unredeemable nature of the Confederate flag as symbol of Southern heritage, Sims told Think Progress.
And to deny this flag s connection to American white supremacy and fear of the loss of white privilege is insane.
I challenge the Sons of Confederate Veterans to come correct and acknowledge that the Confederate flag should be retired as an artifact.
And after that they should help advocate for reparations for slavery.
He added he hoped Burn and Bury Memorial Day would ritualistically confront through reflection and catharsis, the pain and trauma of a very horrific part of American history.
Source: YahooFor those who defend the flag as just being part of Southern history, it is, but it s a shameful part of Southern history.
Here s the designer of the Confederate flag, Thompson, speaking for himself:Image courtesy of MicThompson went on to describe it as a white man s flag:According to a recent survey, Republicans still love the thing.
Fewer than half of Republicans believe the flag is racist.