Alinsky s ideas for community organizing were controversial because he talked about fanning latent hostilities of low-income, inner city residents.
He said that searching out hostilities and controversies could organize communities.
Instead of setting your own agenda for a group.
let them set their own agenda and unleash their own power.
Obama laid the groundwork for the perpetual protests, chaos and rioting in the streets while he was in office.
It started with the Trayvon Martin case and ramped up during Trump s campaign.
Today, Obama s working behind the scenes, with the help of radical globalist billionaire George Soros, to keep it going.
Unless and until Americans rally behind Trump and support the defense of our national security, we will allow this small group of radicals on the Left and in the media to win the propaganda war they ve waged against Trump, and ultimately against America.In the wake of President Donald Trump s legal and constitutional executive orders on immigration, the left has lost their minds.
Unhinged protesters lost their minds and so-called senators on the left have called Trump s actions unconstitutional as if non-American citizens have a constitutional right to come to the United States.
Then there is Democrat Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer who with crocodile tears in his eyes, called Trump s actions mean spirited and un-American.
Oh the hypocrisy, where to begin?Does anyone know why the actual executive orders do not specifically identify the countries seven Muslim countries of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen in the text?
Because in 2016, Barack Obama s DHS targeted those same countries in a 2016 law concerning immigration visas as countries of concern.
The Department of Homeland Security today announced that it is continuing its implementation of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 with the addition of Libya, Somalia, and Yemen as three countries of concern, limiting Visa Waiver Program travel for certain individuals who have traveled to these countries.DHS: limiting Visa Waiver Program travel for certain individuals who have traveled to these countries.
DHS noted the three additional countries designated today join Iran, Iraq, Sudan and Syria as countries subject to restrictions for Visa Waiver Program travel for certain individuals.
But the hypocrisy of the left does not end there.
Where was the Left and why were they so silent when the Obama administration refused to issue visas to Iraqis for six months following the discovery in 2009 of two al Qaeda-Iraq terrorists living as refugees in Bowling Green, Kentucky?In 2011, fewer than 10,000 Iraqis were resettled as refugees in the U.S., half the number from the year before, State Department statistics show.It was the same Chuck Schumer in November of 2015 who said that a halt of Syrian refugees may be necessary after the Paris Islamist attacks occured that killed well over 100 innocent people.
What a mean spirited and un-American act!
But, that was different.We all know that Obama and the Democrats never stranded refugees in need.
Of course we will just forget the fact that Barack Obama heroically on his way out the door put a travel ban in place during his final days and blocked Cuban refugees when he ended the Cuban wet foot dry foot policy and forced the refugees back to Communist Cuba.
Where were the Democrats then?
Where was the media?
Where was the ACLU?
Crickets!-Effective immediately, Cuban nationals will be subject to removal, consistent with U.S. law and enforcement priorities, the president said.
Cuban migrants who have already begun the process of applying for legal residency through the program will be allowed to continue.
Gateway Pundit