Florida Republicans war on women is going strong this week.
On Monday, Republicans in the House made the first step towards violating the Constitutional rights of every woman in the state by voting to allow a bill to progress that would ban nearly all abortions.The House Criminal Justice Committee voted 8-3 to pass House Bill 865, the Florida For Life Act.
The bill defines life as starting at conception and would require two physicians to certify that an abortion is required to save the life of the mother.
Chances of the bill actually making it to the House or Senate floor for a vote are slim, but Republicans claim they knew that when they voted on it.
In fact, the only reason they proposed the bill was to appease Rep. Charles Van Zant.
The lawmaker is in his final term and his filed the bill every year he has been in office.Rep.
Ross Spano (R-Womanhaterville), who voted for the bill told the Associated Press that he was just wasting time by voting for it: The bill, probably, frankly, in all due respect, is never going to get a hearing in the Senate.
Although this bill has a very small chance of making it through the other channels it needs to go through before it is brought to a full vote, there is a possibility that it may.
Florida s is bleeding red at the state level and Republicans across the country have been chomping at the bit to destroy women s rights.
The fake Planned Parenthood videos that were spread by alleged felons renewed the GOP s determination to outlaw abortions.According to the AP:The bill is one of several pieces of anti-abortion legislation now advancing in the Florida Legislature.Other bills that have received approval by at least one committee include measures that would prohibit Medicaid payments to any clinic where abortions are performed; require doctors who perform abortions to have local hospital admitting privileges; and require abortion clinics to meet the same construction standards and other licensing requirements as walk-in surgical centers; and prohibit use of fetal tissue resulting from an abortion for research.In other words, they are hitting women from every possible angle and trying to wedge their unwelcome elephant firmly in our uteri.
They don t care that they are wasting time and therefore, wasting money by voting on these bills because ideology ALWAYS comes before the Constitution and fiscal responsibility in the mind of a Republican.Featured image: Instagram