There are a lot of people in the United States who simply do not understand the meaning of religious liberty.
Having religious freedom is not the freedom to be discriminatory against others based upon your faith, it is the freedom to worship how you like on your own time.
The First Amendment was very clear in its intent of separation church and state with the Establishment Clause.
There is no national religion, there is no religious test, and having a faith is not required.However, there are those who still like to skew not only the Constitution to their liking, but also the Bible to their favor.
Folks like Senator Ted Cruz who will pick and choose which laws suit their fancy and which Bible verses they want to hold near and dear to their hearts to throw in people s faces when they want to be bigoted jerks.When it comes to religious liberty in the state of Georgia, the state s legislature passed a bill that would have allowed businesses to refuse to serve or hire base upon sexual orientation.
However, noticing that such a law is not only bigoted, but would also be harmful to the state economy as many businesses were threatening to leave, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal made the smart choice to veto the bill.Governor Deal had it exactly right when he said: I do not think that we have to discriminate against anyone to protect the faith-based community in Georgia.
But Senator Ted Cruz used his skewed and biased point of view based upon his own understanding of things, and had this to say regarding the veto: I thought that was very disappointing to see Governor Deal in Georgia side with leftist activists and side against religious liberty.
It wasn t too long ago that religious liberty enjoyed bipartisan support.
The modern Democratic party has determined religious faith is inconsistent with its political objectives.
I think that s shameful.
The only people using their supposed faith and point of views for political objectives are people like Ted Cruz.
Legalized discrimination doesn t become less discriminatory when you call it religious liberty.
It s still unconstitutional and it s still wildly un-American.If Cruz wants to call those who follow the Constitution and abide by the 1st and 14th Amendment leftist activists, well, then so be it.
I guess the framers of the Constitution were also leftist activists then.Ted Cruz is angry that Georgia's governor vetoed an anti-gay bill https://t.co/jbD6C0pcMv NowThis (@nowthisnews) March 28, 2016Featured Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images