An officer at a Cleveland school has come under fire after he posted a status on Facebook that called the mother of slain Tamir Rice a stupid b*tch and made vile, insensitive remarks about young police brutality victims.Rice, a 12-year-old from Cleveland, was shot and killed last year by police officer Timothy Loehmann, who saw him playing with a toy gun and shot the boy dead before investigating the situation fully.
Last week, Loehmann was let off the hook and cleared of the charges filed against him.
Two days after this announcement, Cleveland Metropolitan School District officer Matt Cicero decided to voice his opinion on Rice s case over social media.
The page is no longer available, but fortunately the screenshots are.
He wrote: Tamir rices momma just want money.
Lets make the proper changes raise your kids not to play with fake guns stupid bitch.
All this media because the are notgetting what they want Again pleeeeze anyone who does not like what I post ..unfriendly me or block me your not worth my time.
Matt CiceroThis disturbing meme was also found on his Facebook page:Matt CiceroMany people came to the innocent victim s defense, saying that Rice hadn t deserved to die just because he was playing with a toy.
Cicero couldn t be reasoned out of his ignorant mindset.
He responded to his critics: You pull out a gun you get shot.
I don t have time to ask questions and coddle kids that wave guns around.
Matt CiceroIn the past, Cicero had patrolled the school district where Rice went to school, and it s horrifying to think that someone with this attitude would be trusted enough to protect children.
Cicero has been placed on administrative leave since this incident has gotten attention, however many including Cleveland City Councilman Jeff Johnson think Cicero should be flat-out fired.
Addressing Cicero s comments, Johnson said: It s disrespectful to women, it s disrespectful to African-Americans.
The fact that he s so insensitive and he s placing the blame of Tamir s death on Tamir, for me that s enough for him to be not working with children in the Cleveland school system.
Cleveland Metropolitan School District spokeswoman Roseann Canfora called Cicero s comments insensitive at best.
In a statement, she wrote: While we respect every employee s right to freedom of speech, with those rights comes a responsibility to do so in ways that are appropriate and sensitive to others, particularly to the people we serve.
You can watch the report below, via NewsNet5:Featured image via screenshot