There s been a meme spreading across social media that says Only in America do we accept weather predictions from a rodent but deny climate change evidence from scientists.
Sadly, that meme is more accurate than Punxsutawney Phil could ever hope to be as conservatives continue to deny climate science outright as they flock to see if a groundhog sees his shadow or not to predict an early spring or more winter.Of course, groundhogs are not scientifically accurate at all.
It s a complete myth that they can forecast the weather.
This is explained particularly well by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, who put together a nice chart comparing Phil s predictions with the actual temperatures that occurred following them.
From 1988-2015, NOAA found that, The table shows no predictive skill for the groundhog during the most recent years of this analysis.
While Groundhog Day is a way to have a little fun at mid-winter, climate records and statistics tell us that winter probably isn t over.
Climatologically speaking, the three coldest months of the year are December, January, and February, so winter typically still has a bit to go when the groundhog comes out in search of his shadow on February 2.
And that s why Bill Maher had a field day on Friday mocking conservative climate science deniers with a hilarious attack ad aimed particularly at Ted Cruz.Maher noted that Groundhog Day fell on the same day as the Iowa caucus vote, and said that because Punxsutawney Phil predicted warmer weather, naturally, conservatives now think that Punxsutawney Phil is in the tank with the liberals on global warming.
They re crazy about this issue, Maher said, which is why he introduced an ad mocking climate science deniers in which conservatives attack Phil for being just another scientist propped up by liberal media.
The ad also took a masterful shot at Iowa winner Ted Cruz.Here s the video via YouTube:Conservatives probably are crazy enough to believe that a groundhog can predict weather and they are certainly crazy enough to attack the groundhog for predicting warmer weather.
But not believing actual science is truly crazy and it s the kind of crazy that is dangerous as Republicans continue to ignore that many of our coastal cities are going to be under water if we don t act.
Featured image via screenshot