Dick Van Dyke is 90 years old.
The man was born into the Great Depression.
He s seen countless wars, invasions and police actions.
He s seen the rise and fall of empires and regime changes so unprecedented they changed the course of history.
Van Dyke was the age many of us were on 9/11 when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor.Too thin to serve as a pilot at a time when pilots weren t coming home often enough, Van Dyke still managed to serve as an entertainer for the armed services on active duty during wartime.
To say That Dick Van Dyke has forgotten more than most of us have learned would have to be an understatement.He s the kind of man who has influence on America s older generation, as many now retired grew up with Van Dyke as an older sibling and even parental figure to many.
He is a well-known Democrat and champion of liberal causes, so while it came as a little bit of a surprise since he hasn t openly endorsed a candidate in half a century, his choice was clear: Bernie Sanders.Van Dyke uploaded this video to YouTube, warning of things to come:It s a startling 30 seconds.
Sanders has obviously resonated with Dick Van Dyke.
For him to offer such staunch support is a wonderful asset for the Sanders campaign and should make things on the Democratic ticket all the more interesting.
After Hillary Clinton s impressive win in South Carolina, Sanders may need an infusion of non-typical supporters.
Retirees would definitely qualify.As for Van Dyke s warnings, he is right.
Fortunately we have two qualified candidates, either of whom will be able to take down the freight train of lies that is the Donald Trump campaign, which is looking more and more like a frightening reality all the time.
It was a joke.
It wasn t supposed to be like this.Oh well.
At least our race is interesting.
Our candidates have a lot to talk about.
It s nothing like the fear-mongering shout fest over who will kill terrorists better and take away the most from poor people the GOP race is.Featured image from Twitter