18 mayors sent a letter to Obama telling him that they want MORE Syrian refugees.
Is your mayor on this list?Remember Syracuse is the city that saw a beautiful Catholic Church become a mosque.
I m guessing the mayor wants to see more of that because the majority of the Syrians to be admitted to the US through the UN are Sunni Muslims.
Kind of ironic that they penned this letter when the Pope was here.
Does he want more Muslims to take over more Catholic Churches worldwide?Clearly Catholic Charities and Mayor Miner of Syracuse do!From Syracuse.com:Mayor Stephanie Miner is one of 18 mayors encouraging President Barack Obama to accept additional Syrian refugees into the United States.Miner signed a letter, sent to Obama, that calls for an increase of the number of refugees the U.S. will accept in the next two years.
Obama has already pledged to take 10,000 Syrian refugees and increase the overall refugee allowance to 100,000 by 2017.
Our cities have been transformed by the skills and the spirit of those who come to us from around the world, the letter reads.
The drive and enterprise of immigrants and refugees have helped build our economies, enliven our arts and culture, and enrich our neighborhoods.
All 18 mayors are members of Cities United for Immigration Action, a coalition pushing for immigration reform.
Along with Miner, mayors from Los Angeles, New York City, Pittsburgh, Boston and Chicago signed the letter.
[I bet if you dug into this group, you would find it another George Soros-funded group.
ed]Syracuse currently accepts between 1,100 and 1,200 refugees each year.
Two organizations Catholic Charities of Onondaga County and Interfaith Works CNY resettle refugees in Syracuse.
We have taken in refugees, and will help make room for thousands more, the letter reads.
Here are the 18 cities which need new mayors:Ed Pawlowski, Mayor of Allentown, PA Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Mayor of Baltimore, MD Martin J. Walsh, Mayor of Boston, MA James Diossa, Mayor of Central Falls, RI Mark Kleinschmidt, Mayor of Chapel Hill, NC Rahm Emanuel, Mayor of Chicago, IL Edward Terry, Mayor of Clarkston, GA Nan Whaley, Mayor of Dayton, OH Domenick Stampone, Mayor of Haledon, NJ Pedro E. Segarra, Mayor of Hartford, CT Eric Garcetti, Mayor of Los Angeles, CA Betsy Hodges, Mayor of Minneapolis, MN Bill de Blasio, Mayor of New York City, NY Jose Torres, Mayor of Paterson, NJ William Peduto, Mayor of Pittsburgh, PA Javier Gonzales, Mayor of Santa Fe, NM Francis G. Slay, Mayor of St. Louis, MO Stephanie A.
Miner, Mayor of Syracuse, NYVia: Refugee Resettlement Watch