The author of Clinton Cash responds to Hillary Clinton s brazen dishonesty.
Who does she think she s fooling is she lying or just very incompetent?
I think it s brazen dishonesty.
I was not personally involved because that wasn t something the secretary of state did, said Clinton.The transfer of 20 percent of US uranium the stuff used to build nuclear weapons to Vladimir Putin did not rise to the level of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton s time and attention?Beyond being an admission of extreme executive negligence on an issue of utmost national security, Hillary s statement strains credulity to the breaking point for at least three other reasons.First, nine investors who profited from the uranium deal collectively donated $145 million to Hillary s family foundation, including Clinton Foundation mega donor and Canadian mining billionaire Frank Giustra, who pledged $100 million.
Since 2005, Giustra and Bill Clinton have frequently globetrotted together, and there s even a Clinton Foundation initiative named the Clinton-Giustra initiative.
But Hillary expects Americans to believe she had no knowledge that a man who made a nine-figure donation to her foundation was deeply involved in the deal?
Nor eight other mining executives, all of whom also donated to her foundation?Second, during her Sunday interview, Clinton was asked about the Kremlin-backed bank that paid Bill Clinton $500,000 for a single speech delivered in Moscow.
Hillary s response?
She dodged the question completely and instead offered this blurry evasion.
The timing doesn t work, said Clinton.
It happened in terms of the support for the foundation before I was secretary of state.
Hillary added that such allegations are being made by people who are wielding the partisan axe.
The reason Hillary ignored addressing the $500,000 direct payment from the Kremlin-backed bank to her husband is because that payment occurred, as the Times confirms, shortly after the Russians announced their intention to acquire a majority stake in Uranium One.
And as for her comment that the timing of the uranium investors donations doesn t work as a damning revelation, in fact, the timing works perfectly.
As Clinton Cash revealed and others have confirmed, Uranium One s then-chief Ian Telfer made donations totaling $2.35 million that Hillary Clinton s foundation kept hidden.
Telfer s donations occurred as Hillary s State Department was considering the Uranium One deal.
Third, Clinton correctly notes in the interview that there were nine government agencies who had to sign off on that deal.
What she leaves out, of course, is that her State Department was one of them, and the only agency whose chief received $145 million in donations from shareholders in the deal.
Does she honestly expect Americans to believe she was simply unaware that the deal was even under consideration in her own State Department?Read more here: New York Post