I just want to start with what you just heard from Newt Gingrich and Mike Huckabee, both going public against Mitt Romney for secretary of state.
You seemed to join in as well.
You tweeted: Receiving deluge of social media and private coms re: Romney.
Some Trump loyalists warn against Romney as secretary of state.
Do you think Mitt Romney could be a loyal secretary of state for Donald Trump?KELLYANNE CONWAY, TRUMP SENIOR ADVISER: I would hope so, because that s the first job of any secretary of state, Dana, is to support and work directly for and advise the president for whom you work.I felt compelled to mention it because I it s just breathtaking in scope and intensity the type of messages I have received from all over the country.
And I m just me.
I m not Donald Trump.And so, just as his former campaign manager, the number of people who feel betrayed to think that a Governor Romney would get the most prominent Cabinet post, after he went so far out of his way to hurt Donald Trump there was the never-Trump movement and then there was Mitt Romney.He gave speeches against Donald Trump.
He attacked his character.
I never heard Governor Romney come out and say, hey, you know, I have a problem with X, Y and Z, but that 25 million job creation plan over the next 10 years is really something to look at.
The fact that you will reduce the capital gains tax and the tax on employers and businesses, or you will unleash energy investment, or you have 10-point plan to reform the Veterans Administration, none of that was ever said.And his the Romney consultants transparent were the worst to all of us, including Mr. Trump.
Their Twitter feeds were complete 100 percent anti-Trump screed.And, look, if president-elect Trump chooses Mitt Romney as his secretary of state, or whomever he chooses, that will have the full support and backing of all of us.
I respect the brilliance and judgment and sheer instincts of president-elect Trump to form his Cabinet as he wishes.But I felt compelled to come forward on behalf of the people who were weighing in.Watch:https://youtu.be/CiokZm91hCA