Sarah Palin must have been on some powerful drugs when she delivered a rambling word salad to an unenthused audience on Friday.At least that s what the Morning Joe panel on MSNBC thinks.On Monday, host Joe Scarborough asked if Palin took bad acid prior to her speech in support of Republican front-runner Donald Trump.
Illegal immigrants, welcoming them in, even inducing and seducing them with gift baskets.
Come on over the border, and we ll here s a gift basket of teddy bears and soccer balls, Palin ranted.
Our kids, and our grandkids, they ll never know then what it is to be rewarded for that entrepreneurial spirit that God creates within us, in order to work and to produce and to strive and to the thrive and to really be alive, she continued bewilderingly.
Halfway through her speech did you ask if you had stumbled into some bad acid?
Scarborough asked John Heilemann, who attended Palin s speech and witnessed the insanity first-hand.
Well the question was, Who has taken the bad acid?
he replied.
She was not fully if the opposite of dissociative is associative, she was not fully associative.
Let s say that it was not a fully coherent speech, let s put it that way.
Mika Brzezinski cautioned that Palin s rant could be the most articulate moment of the campaign, but Scarborough introduced video of Palin s word salad.
Ladies and gentlemen, Winston Churchill, 1940.
Scarborough and Heeilemann went on to debate whether Palin s rant reminded them more of the rock song White Rabbit or Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds before agreeing that they all had no idea what she was trying to convey.Here s the video via Twitter..@morningmika on Sarah Palin s speech in Wisconsin: It was word salad https://t.co/v7Uw9VtNDJ Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) April 4, 2016If Palin was on drugs then this isn t the first time she has used them.
She has been delivering word salad speeches since being introduced in 2008 as the GOP vice presidential candidate.
And that leads to an even bigger question.
What drug was John McCain on when he picked her?Featured image via screen capture