Donald Trump may have decided that Russia is going to be America s new BFF, but the rest of the GOP isn t so sure.
Going against the incoming administration, several Republicans are preparing to launch a wide-ranging investigation into Russia, particularly their involvement with hacking and alleged interference in the presidential election.The Washington Post reported:Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (Ariz.) is readying a probe of possible Russian cyber-incursions into U.S. weapons systems, and he said he has been discussing the issue with Senate Select Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (N.C.), with whom he will be working closely to investigate Russia s suspected interference in the U.S. elections and cyberthreats to the military and other institutions.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has been apprised of the discussions.
Burr did not respond to requests for comment.Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) also said he intends to hold hearings next year into alleged Russian hacking.
Corker is on Trump s shortlist for secretary of state, according to the Trump transition team.Two of the most vocal voices on team Probe Putin are McCain and Sen. Lindsey Graham.Graham said that Russia will keep doing more here until they pay a price.
Next year, he plans to head up legislation and hold investigative hearings on Russia s misadventures throughout the world, which will absolutely include Russian interference in the U.S. election.
I m going after Russia in every way you can go after Russia.
I think they re one of the most destabilizing influences on the world stage.
I think they did interfere with our elections, and I want Putin personally to pay the price, Graham told CNN on Wednesday.McCain said his Armed Services Committee is going to be investigating Russia s cyber capabilities and the extent that they could be used against the U.S. military and our weapons systems, because the real threat is cyber.
McCain added that this investigation will probably veer off to include looking at the possibility Russia was behind the DNC hacking.
Also on the list to be probed is the hacking of state-based election systems, including that of Arizona, McCain s home state.
See, the problem with hacking is that if they re able to disrupt elections, then it s a national security issue, obviously, McCain said on Thursday.He noted that the Armed Services Committee was still formulating just exactly how they would go about dealing with the issue, but said there s very little doubt that Russia was meddling in the U.S. election process, which he insists is very worthy of examination.
Trump has dismissed the possibility that Russia was responsible for the DNC hacking, despite the fact that he himself called on the country to find Hillary Clinton s missing emails.
I don t believe they interfered, Trump said.
It could be Russia.
And it could be China.
And it could be some guy in his home in New Jersey.
I believe that it could have been Russia and it could have been any one of many other people.
Sources or even individuals.
Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images and Thierry Chesnot/Getty Images.
Images merged by Rika Christensen