Senator Dianne Feinstein recently announced she would be running again She s 84-years old!
Her career in politics has been a very lucrative undertaking.
How could she possibly give that up?
The power and the money are just too hard to pass up for retirement.
The on;y problem is that sudden;y Feinstein has challengers How dare they try and dethrone the powerhouse Senator who was once the Mayor of San Francisco Game on!A potential primary challenger to Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D., Calif.) is signaling his intent to enter the race for the Senate seat she has held since 1992.California Democratic state senate president Kevin de Le n will throw his hat into the ring to challenge Feinstein in the 2018 race, according to three sources who spoke to CNN.
The 84-year-old senator announced Monday she would run for reelection, causing consternation on the progressive left even as she tried to get out ahead of de Le n.In the state senate, de Le n represents Los Angeles and has helped pass measures directed at President Donald Trump, positioning himself as one of the president s fiercest critics.
The California state legislature has opposed Trump s agenda by becoming a so-called sanctuary state, as well as trying to force him to release his tax returns and even passing a resolution calling for him to apologize for racist and bigoted behavior.
Feinstein, however, took criticism from the left in August for expressing the hope that Trump would change to be more cooperative with Democrats.
I just hope he has the ability to learn and to change, and if he does, he can be a good president, she said, receiving boos from the San Francisco audience.
She later said she is under no illusion that it s likely to happen and will continue to oppose his policies.
De Le n will likely be one of multiple contenders for Feinstein s seat.
A source said Democratic mega-donor and environmentalist Tom Steyer is very much looking at the Senate race, and in a letter Wednesday he also called on Democrats to impeach Trump.California has an open primary in which the top two vote-getters, regardless of party, face off in the general election.
The primary will be held on June 5, 2018.FEINSTEIN RECENTLY OPENED HER MOUTH AND PROVED SHE S OUT OF TOUCH WITH MOST AMERICANS: Senator Dianne Feinstein opened her mouth and proved she s out of touch with most of us.
This dinosaur who needs to retire already is demanding more gun control she claims increasing numbers of Americans want more gun control citing zero proof.
Go home Dianne, you re drunk on power SHE COULDN T NAME ONE LAW THAT COULD HAVE PREVENTED VEGAS!!!
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D., Calif.) couldn t name any laws in an interview airing Sunday that might have prevented last week s massacre in Las Vegas.NBC host Chuck Todd asked Feinstein what laws could have prevented the massacre if she had her way with writing all laws.
Let me ask you this: give me the slate of laws that if you could wave your wand and have enacted that could have prevented Vegas?
Todd said.
Well, I don t know.
I would have to take a good look at that and really study it, Feinstein said.
I m not sure there is any set of laws that could have prevented it.