For anyone who cares to do the research, there is always more to Obama s unyielding public support of a person who is held up as a victim.
Every move is carefully calculated, orchestrated and implemented by the master Community Organizer In Chief As many people thoroughly anticipated the back-story to the 14-year-old briefcase clockmaker reflects his father is actually a rather controversial Muslim activist.
This lends further credence toward a reasonable belief that his taking a briefcase clock to school was not as innocent as the media would lead everyone to believe.update-1UPDATE: In his own words Ahmed Mohamed, 14, an Irving MacArthur High student essentially states he knew taking the device to school was controversial.
Listen at 1:26 video: I closed it with a cable, so because, I didn t want to lock it to make it seem like a threat so I just used simple cable .
so it won t look that much suspicious .That s what you call an admission of premeditation and intent.
In his own words, with forethought, he knew the briefcase with wires and a countdown clock would be suspicious ; especially around 9/11.TEXAS [ ] The ninth grader is the son of Mohamed Elhassan Mohamed, a Sudanese immigrant who has made headlines of his own over the years.
A February 2015 profile in the North Dallas Gazette details the elder Mohamed s activities.Born in Sudan in 1961, Mohamed, a former customs worker at Khartoum International Airport, earned a degree in philosophy from Cairo University in Khartoum before emigrating to the U.S. Once I realized my dream was bigger than what Sudan had to offer I immigrated to America in the mid-1980 s, he told the North Dallas Gazette.
In that same interview, Mohamed shared that upon arrival in the U.S. where he says his degree was not accepted he initially sold hot dogs, candy, and newspapers in Manhattan.
I realized this wasn t enough for me, and I packed my bag and moved to Dallas, Texas y all, he told the paper.In Texas, he started out as a pizza delivery man before becoming a taxi driver and ultimately launching his own business ventures he owns a computer repair shop in Irving, Texas (perhaps where his son gets his tech acuity from), a cab company called Jet Taxi, a medical emergency transport company called Paradise Prime Investments, and the solar energy business AlSufi International in Sudan.
He also served as self-elected president of the small Sufi Muslim AlSufi center in Irving.Via: Conservative TreehouseAhmed s father, Mohamed Elhassan Mohamed is also well known for his defense of the Quran against Florida pastor Terry Jones.