Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio says a new video analysis shows that parts of Obama s birth certificate were copied from another certificate.
After arguing his point for five years, Arpaio says he will turn this new evidence over to the fed.
USA TODAYAt 4 p.m. sharp, Arpaio and a member of his Sheriff s Office s Cold Case Posse had a big message for the 40-odd journalists in attendance: You were wrong.Arpaio and his aides announced that a five-year investigation had proved that Obama s birth certificate from Hawaii in 1961 was a fake.
An accompanying presentation highlighted what they called 9 points of forgery on the document, which focused on the angles of date stamps, typed letters and words.
USA TodayREMEMBER THE WOMAN WHO VERIFIED OBAMA S Birth Certificate that was killed in a plane crash after she verified the authenticity of his birth certificate?The Hawaiian health official who verified the authenticity of President Obama s birth certificate died in a small plane crash.The plane, carrying a pilot and eight passengers, went down Wednesday in the water a half mile off the Hawaiian island of Molokai, the Maui Fire Department said.
The lone fatality was Loretta Fuddy, who has served as state health director since January 2011.
Tom Matsuda, the interim executive director of Hawaii s health insurance exchange, confirmed Fuddy s death.Fuddy, 65, made national news in April 2011 when she verified the authenticity of certified copies of President Obama s birth certificate.
Obama had requested the release to curb claims by so-called birthers that he was born in Kenya and not eligible to be president.Makani Kai Air President Richard Schuman told Honolulu-based KITV that he spoke with the pilot of the single-engine turboprop Cessna Grand Caravan after the crash.
What he reported is after takeoff there was catastrophic engine failure, Schuman said.
He did the best he can to bring the aircraft down safely and he got everybody out of the aircraft.
Schuman said the cause of the engine failure had not yet been determined.
The National Transportation Safety Board was investigating the crash; NTSB spokesman Eric Weiss said that based on the location of the crash it was unlikely the plane will be recovered.
USA TODAYArpaio promised to provide an update and a final conclusion to the Barack Obama Birth Certificate investigation.The Maricopa County Sheriff s Office announced they believe President Obama s longform birth certificate was forged.They cite nine points of forgery, claiming the Obama document contains stamp prints digitally lifted from a certificate belonging to a person named Johanna Ah nee.
Breaking 911Chief Investigator Mike Zullo said, Forensic analysis showing the characters on the document were pieced together from secondary sources.
[..] Words, letters and hand placed date stamps have been digitally copied from Ah Nee s birth certificate and pasted onto Obama s longform birth certificate [..] We re pretty confident with these results.
Breaking 911