Let s just say that if you consider being white the best thing about yourself, you must live one sad, lonely, and pathetic life.
One of these pathetic people apparently felt the need to create a whites only website to meet like-minded folk.
And not just any website, a dating website.What is this dating website called?
Where White People Meet, of course.
Duh.Of course, they re not gonna just come out and say they re racist.
They re just going to make the website, in the predominantly white state of Utah, and claim that it s just like any other dating website.
Here s what it says in their About Us!
section: We developed this dating website as an alternative to the other dating websites that cater to certain groups.
We simply want to help people connect in a safe and fun online environment without costing them a ton of money.
Enjoy!
Except, who is it an alternative for?
It looks as though, for just $4, it s an exclusive alternative for anti-gay white supremacists.
It seems as though one can t search for a same-sex pairing, and the website doesn t state where it stands on polygamy.via WhereWhitePeopleMeet.com What s even more bizarre is the fact that they would advertise this whites only on billboards in Utah, a state that is 91.4 percent white.
Is it really that hard to find other white singles in Utah?
Chances are, if you run into a single person, they re going to be white.
So, why bother, unless you just want to be a racist douchebag?West Valley billboard promotes Utah-based dating site geared toward white people: https://t.co/aiEKVRuMD8 pic.twitter.com/5PY1rs58pc Salt Lake Tribune (@sltrib) December 31, 2015Of course, the website states that it has nothing to do with racism: I am sure some of you are wondering about the concept and need for a dating website titled Where White People Meet.Com.
Our answer to that would be why not?
There are various dating websites that promote and cater to just about every origin, race, religion and lifestyle out there.
So again, why not Where White People Meet.Com ?
Basically, it s a don t forget white people exist, too website.
Which is often code among white supremacists who feel they are being overrun by people born with more melanin in their skin.
They have to make sure they are seen and heard.
So, while they try to say things like: As you navigate the website and begin to interact with other members, please remember the golden rule of treat others as you want to be treated.
The staff here at Where White People Meet will not tolerate rude, aggressive or racist behavior.
The last thing we want it to have to remove a member of this community but please know that we will.
They should be aware that creating a website in a nearly entirely white state to cater to only white people is pretty damn racist in and of itself.
And while the NAACP has determined that it doesn t seem to be the work of a hate group, the whole thing just seems really weird and unnecessary.
In fact, if this whole thing turned out to some satirical joke, it wouldn t at all be surprising.
It s that weird.Featured image: WhereWhitePeopleMeet.com