Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu threw a temper tantrum like a petulant child because the United Nations finally passed a resolution condemning Israel s illegal settlements.For decades, Israel has been seizing more and more territory for themselves from the Palestinian people as nations around the world, including the United States oppose what they are doing.
All the while, Israel has been fragrantly ignoring what the rest of the world thinks even as America continues to give Israel billions of taxpayer dollars to combine with their own military budget, a military they have repeatedly used to commit genocide against Palestinians.The best solution for peace is a two-state solution, but Israel rejects the idea because they want the land for themselves.And that forced President Obama and United States Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power to abstain from a U.N. vote on a resolution condemning the Israeli settlements.
Applause within the United Nations broke out upon passage, proving that the world is tired of the conflict in the Middle East and wants to end it even if it means Israel does not get everything it wants.But Netanyahu threw a hissy fit in a statement on Friday whining about the resolution and accusing President Obama of abandoning Israel.
Israel categorically rejects the despicable anti-Israeli resolution at the UN, and will not adhere to it, the Prime Minister s Office said in a seething statement after the council voted in favor of the motion 14-0.
While the Security Council does nothing to prevent the massacre of half a million people in Syria, it is shamefully singling out Israel the only democracy in the Middle East.
The Obama administration not only failed to defend Israel from this harassment at the UN, it cooperated with it behind the scenes.
Israel is looking forward to working with President-elect Trump and with out friends in Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, to undo the damage of this absurd resolution.
In reality, while President Obama still supports Israel s right to exist, he refuses to let Netanyahu bully us.
For years, Netanyahu has refused to halt the settlements that prevent peace talks from moving forward.
He has also been itching to start a war against Iran so he can sit back and watch as our troops fight and die doing Israel s dirty work.And frankly, if President Obama really hatred Israel, he would have let Iran wipe it off the f*cking map years ago and would never have approved the ridiculous $38 billion in military aid over the next ten years that Israel is about to receive.
Also, past presidents have also supported resolutions condemning Israeli settlements, including Ronald Reagan.Perhaps Netanyahu should have respected President Obama instead of insulting him repeatedly over the years like when he delivered an address to Congress rebuking him for working with Iran to reduce their nuclear development.
Let s keep in mind that President Obama succeeded in getting Iran to the table and both sides were able to come to a diplomatic agreement.
Iran is now complying by giving up their centrifuges.
If Netanyahu had his way, we would be at war with Iran, something he can now talk Trump into actually doing.If Netanyahu really wanted peace talks, he would have halted the settlements years ago.
But Netanyahu and his right-wing government have no interest in peace.
They have become frighteningly similar to the Nazis over the years as they kill Palestinians indiscriminately and advocate genocide against them.
One would think that a people whose history is full of tragedies like the Holocaust would avoid trying to commit one themselves.
But Netanyahu has dragged Israel to the extreme right-wing.Now Netanyahu is about to have Trump by his side, an egomaniac who hates Muslims as much as he does, which could mean the restart of perpetual war in the Middle East for our military or worse since Trump is obsessed with using nuclear weapons.So it looks like Putin isn t the only foreign leader who got a puppet in the White House.
Israel did, too.
And the world could be set on fire if we continue letting Israel bully us.Featured image via Press TV