One of Donald Trump s strongest allies just turned against him and may have just cost herself a cabinet position in the process.It s a win-win really.Not only do we get to watch Sarah Palin slam Donald Trump for making a shitty deal, we get the satisfaction of knowing that he probably won t consider her for any cabinet post at all, including Secretary of Veterans Affairs.Earlier this week, Trump bragged that he was meeting with Carrier, a company in Indiana that was planning to send American jobs overseas.
Well, Trump only saved nearly 1,000 jobs while more than 1,000 jobs were still sent to Mexico.
Oh, and Carrier got a sweet deal for it, too.
Taxpayers in Indiana will be giving Carrier $7 million to keep the smattering of jobs that are left.
It s a very high price to pay and is a waste of taxpayer dollars that sets the stage for more companies to do the exact same thing in order to snag millions of taxpayer dollars.
All they have to do is threaten to send jobs overseas and get Trump to negotiate to keep some of them.In short, Trump is an easy mark for companies to exploit.
But Sarah Palin is NOT supportive of what Trump is doing.In an op-ed for Young Conservatives, Palin blasted Trump s bad deal with Carrier as crony capitalism that will doom the free market and the country.
When government steps in arbitrarily with individual subsidies, favoring one business over others, it sets inconsistent, unfair, illogical precedent, she wrote.
Meanwhile, the invisible hand that best orchestrates a free people s free enterprise system gets amputated.
Then, special interests creep in and manipulate markets.
Republicans oppose this, remember?
Instead, we support competition on a level playing field, remember?
Because we know special interest crony capitalism is one big fail.
Politicians picking and choosing recipients of corporate welfare is railed against by fiscal conservatives, for it s a hallmark of corruption.
And socialism A $20 trillion debt-ridden country can t afford this sinfully stupid practice, so vigilantly guard against its continuance, or we re doomed But know that fundamentally, political intrusion using a stick or carrot to bribe or force one individual business to do what politicians insist, versus establishing policy incentivizing our ENTIRE ethical economic engine to roar back to life, isn t the answer.Trump s deal with Carrier was nothing more than a theatrical photo-op stunt designed to fool us into believing that he is saving American businesses.
But he only did the exact opposite.
Eventually, Carrier will threaten to send more jobs overseas and they will expect yet another government handout to be paid by taxpayers.
It s free money for businesses.
So businesses will likely take advantage of this and will decide to send jobs overseas in an effort to secure millions in taxpayer subsidies.
It s windfall for corporations, but a costly disaster for taxpayers.
Because now corporations will just hold jobs hostage and will demand taxpayer money in return for keeping just some of those jobs in the United States.Once again, Donald Trump is a loser who makes bad business deals, and this time he is dragging America down with him.Featured Image: Screenshot