Every time a terrorist murders an innocent person, and falsely invokes the name of God, it should be an insult to every person of faith.
Terrorists do not worship God.
They worship death.
President Donald J. TrumpDonald Trump insisted in a speech addressing global Islamic extremism that Muslim leaders must scare would-be terrorists into submission, warning them about the impact suicide bombings will have on their immortal souls.
Religious leaders must make this absolutely clear: Barbarism will deliver you no glory piety to evil will bring you no dignity, Trump said in a sumptuous Saudi ballroom that put Mar-a-Lago to shame.
If you choose the path of terror, your life will be empty, your life will be brief, and your soul will be fully condemned, he said.
Heroes don t kill innocents, a confident Trump declared at the King Abdulaziz Conference Center in Riyadh.
They save them.
The president urged 55 world leaders from Arab and other Muslim nations to drive out terrorists from every corner of their lives including mosques in a zero-tolerance approach that lines up with his 2016 campaign rhetoric.
Drive them out!
he said.
Drive them out of your places of worship, Drive them out of your communities.
Drive them out of your holy lands, and drive them out of this earth, he trumpeted.Trump s performance was forceful at times but largely a cautious, measured and presidential-sounding effort, raising his voice only once.
With God s help this summit will mark the beginning of the end for those who practice terror and spread its vile creed, the president said.Trump insisted that fighting terrorism is a battle between good and evil, not between different faiths, different sects, or different civilizations.
Terrorists do not worship God.
They worship death, Trump declared.
If we do not act against this organized terror, then we know what will happen and what will be the end result.
He predicted that in the absence of multi-nation commitments to action, peaceful societies will be engulfed by violence, and the futures of many generations will be sadly squandered.
And if the world doesn t unite to fight ISIS, al-Qaeda, Hezbollah, Hamas and other groups, he said, not only will we be judged by our people, not only will we be judged by history, we will be judged by God.
Trump said Middle Eastern nations can t wait for the U.S. to solve the terror problem for them.
Muslim-majority countries must take the lead in combating radicalization, he said.Trump took pains to isolate Iran in his speech, saying the Islamic republican is spreading destruction and chaos throughout the Middle East and gives terrorists safe harbor, financial backing and the social standing needed for recruitment.
Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, too, declared on Sunday that the Iranian regime has been the spearhead of global terrorism.
Trump called defeating global terrorism history s great test, as he urged summit attendees to vanquish the forces that terrorism brings with it every single time.
Young Muslim boys and girls should be able to grow up free from fear, safe from violence and innocent from hatred, Trump said.
This is a battle between barbaric criminals who seek to obliterate human life, and decent people of all religions who seek to protect it, Trump said, reading from teleprompters.Watch video here:King Salman seemed to agree with Trump s most aggressive and foreboding statement that jihadi terrorists place their souls at risk.
Our way to achieve the goals of our religion and win everlasting life in heaven is to promote the tolerant values of Islam, which are based in peace and moderation, he said in introducing Trump from behind a desk onstage.
There is no honor in committing murder, he said through a translator.
Islam is the religion of peace and tolerance.
it considers killing an innocent soul tantamount to killing all of humanity.
Salman called on Gulf Cooperation Council leaders to reject extremism, work on fighting all forms of terrorism, stop its financing and its propagation, dry up its sources, and stand firm in confronting this scourge that poses a danger to all of humanity.
And he pledged to prosecute terrorists and terror financing, to eradicate the ISIS terror army and other terrorist organizations regardless of their religious, sect or ideology.
Daily Mail