As Donald Trump was being sworn in as Grand Wizard of the United States, Pope Francis was throwing shade at our new President-With-An-Asterisk in an interview with a Spanish newspaper.He didn t address Trump directly in his interview with El Pais after all, where s the fun in that?
but instead talked about someone of whom many Trump supporters are fond, Adolf Hitler: Germany was looking for a leader, someone who would give her back her identity and there was a little man named Adolf Hitler who said I can do it .
Hitler did not steal power.
He was elected by his people and then he destroyed his people.
The Germans at that time also wanted to protect themselves with walls and barbed wire so that others cannot take away their identity.
It doesn t take much imagination at all to see the similarities.
Immediately after Trump assumed office, any mention of civil rights disappeared from the White House website and he immediately signed an executive order aimed at taking healthcare away from millions of Americans.
The case of Germany is classic, he said, adding that Hitler gave his citizens a deformed identity and we know what it produced.
In other words, Germany first, America first, it s all the same.
But Pope Francis says to give Trump a chance to prove him right: Let s see.
Let s see what he does and then we will evaluate.
Naturally, conservatives are furious.
Responding reports on Trump s statements, the Right lashed out at Pope Francis for insulting their god:@RT_com @RobertNTaupier Is it sacrilegious to tell a Godless Commie Pope to go **** himself?
Thomas Pine (@ameripundit) January 23, 2017@RT_com stuff it The worst Pope ever who totally politicizes everything for his socialists cronies E Publius Unum (@CesquireCowen) January 23, 2017@RT_com This pope is hurdling Christianity towards extinction.
Lowest numbers in recent history.
1 9 1 6 (@PepeWillsItV3) January 23, 2017@RT_com the Pope is a Jesuit Marxist Lisa M B (@LisamLouisiana) January 23, 2017@RT_com just another old guy and his old opinions.
Hopefully the church starts to be taxed so they can act responsible raisemmmk (@raisemmmk) January 23, 2017@RT_com a leftist, papal imposter.
He is probably only a layman since they changed the rites of ordination after vatican 2.
Not Catholic!
Procinctu (@TheProcinctu) January 23, 2017@RT_com You look into your business Mr poop sorry , Mr pope.
silako silmi (@gilmaparty) January 23, 2017@RT_com I've looked at history, Hitler,wasn't a bad person,just trying to protect Germany from SATAN,if he had completed his work,better PL (((Andros))) (@MrRealAndros) January 23, 2017@FoxNews Passing judgement isn't his place.Has he read the bible.?
Time 4 a new pope this one is defective Sharon (@SharonM67714628) January 22, 2017@FoxNews Passing judgement isn't his place.Has he read the bible.?
Time 4 a new pope this one is defective Sharon (@SharonM67714628) January 22, 2017@sexxxylisa @FoxNews I Agree with you 100% !
Yes NOT a nice old pope.
He's an evil old Jesuit GLOBALIST NWO pope.
Liziz Fine (@LizizFine) January 22, 2017This isn t the first time the Pontiff has attacked President Cheeto.
In February, shortly after The Donald warned Trump about lying about his religion: A person who thinks only about building walls wherever they may be and not building bridges, is not Christian I d just say that this man is not Christian if he said it this way.
If Donald Trump s presidency feels like the rise of Hitler to you, you re not alone and it is your duty as an American to stand up to the threat every day of your life until it is no longer present.
It s going to be a long and terrible four years, but we must stand together against this unpresidented threat to our country, minimize the damage, and rebuild when he is gone in four years.Featured image via Getty Images (Franco Origlia)/screengrab