Recently, reports have been circulating that Melania Trump may have been working illegally during her first five years in the United States, including while the GOP presidential nominee and his latest in a string of wives were dating a huge no-no to Donald Trump s idiot supporters.
So Buzzfeed decided to get out there and ask Trump supporters what they thought about this new development.None of the Trump supporters Buzzfeed asked about the new information that Melania Trump s nude photographs from 1995 revealed she had actually been in the United States longer than the has previously claimed were informed about it, but few actually cared that she broke the law.
After all, she isn t a Mexican rapist or a Muslim terrorist.
I haven t heard about this before, but it s not true, one woman told the publication.
But if, but if It doesn t matter anyway.
Another explained that Hillary used to be a Republican and Trump used to be a Democrat, things change!
He failed to explain how one s immigration status at a particular time can change.
Another said that the media shouldn t pick on Trump s wife because Obama has gotten a pass on proving his citizenship, which is well-documented.Another man said we shouldn t pick on Trump s wife when Obama s gotten a pass on proving his citizenship.
pic.twitter.com/xiwbX3bqWC Ema O Connor (@o_ema) August 4, 2016One supporter says she doesn t care about the issue.
She just wants a wall and what is going on with Obama.
Most of the Trump supporters I asked about Melania s questionable immigration story did not know and did not care.
pic.twitter.com/aXgOv3liZX Ema O Connor (@o_ema) August 4, 2016One man decided to cut past the bullsh*t and simply explained that he and other supporters don t care if she worked here illegally because they re fine with Europeans coming here.
He did not explain what he meant by that, but European-Americans is white supremacist slang for white people, so there s that.Some supporters said they wouldn t care of Melania worked illegally because they re fine w/ Europeans coming here pic.twitter.com/Mf3tWe05R6 Ema O Connor (@o_ema) August 4, 2016Trump fans love his immigration policies, but only so far as they would keep more brown people, Muslims, or others they consider undesirables from entering the country.
Need evidence?
Just listen to them.These people will be voting in November.
Will you?Featured image via screengrab