Daily Caller The revelation on Monday that former Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos has plead guilty to lying to the FBI about his contacts with Russian operatives thrust the little-known energy consultant into the national spotlight.Few details have been reported about the 30-year-old Papadopoulos, including how he ended up on the Trump campaign.Gateway Pundit reports that Papadopoulos was a volunteer whose repeated attempts to set up meetings between Trump s camp and Russians were outright rejected.The Washington Post reported back in August that Papadopoulos attempted to set up several meetings with Russia and all were rejected by Trump s camp.Watch Sarah Huckabee Sanders break down the difference between a Trump volunteer and Hillary and the DNC, who all of a sudden seems to have a renewed interest in Russian collusion again, after ignoring the bombshell revelation that Hillary and the DNC paid millions of dollars to create a phony Trump-Russia dossier.
Sanders tells CBS News Major Garrett, The big difference here is you have a meeting that took place versus millions of dollars being sent to create fake information to actually influence the election.
You compare those two, those are apples and oranges.What the Clinton campaign did, what the DNC did, was actually exchange money.
They took a meeting.
Those are far different.
And one is pretty common practice in any campaign to take a meeting.
The other one is actually paying money for false information.
That s a big deal and a big difference.
Sarah Sanders doing what she does best making a mockery of Obama's stenographers aka the imbeciles in the WH press corps.#MuellerMonday pic.twitter.com/yaEDNwHgcW HailToTheCovfefe (@MichelleRMed) October 30, 2017Sanders went on to say there is nothing in the indictment today changes nothing, and that The real collusion has everything to do with the Clinton campaign.
Sarah Sanders: "The real collusion has everything to do with the Clinton campaign."
pic.twitter.com/Og4ibRAeHC Axios (@axios) October 30, 2017Sanders best line of the day was when she told rabid, anti-Trump, nut-job Jim Acosta of CNN to finish your monologue.
Love the bit where Sarah Sanders sez to @Acosta, "Oh, finish your monologue " on VOLUNTEER George Papadopoulos!
https://t.co/3e4ggYXhfA Boston Bobblehead (@DBloom451) October 30, 2017The adviser, George Papadopoulos, offered to set up a meeting between us and the Russian leadership to discuss US-Russia ties under President Trump, telling them his Russian contacts welcomed the opportunity, according to internal campaign emails read to The Washington Post.The proposal sent a ripple of concern through campaign headquarters in Trump Tower.
Campaign co-chairman Sam Clovis wrote that he thought NATO allies should be consulted before any plans were made.
Another Trump adviser, retired Navy Rear Adm. Charles Kubic, cited legal concerns, including a possible violation of U.S. sanctions against Russia and of the Logan Act, which prohibits U.S. citizens from unauthorized negotiation with foreign governments.The NY Daily News even reported that Manafort put the kibosh on the Russia meetings as well.
We need someone to communicate that DT is not doing these trips, Manafort told his business partner Rick Gates, an account his spokesman Jason Maloni confirmed to the Daily News Monday evening.The Gateway Pundit also reported that Papadopoulos was looking for a book deal just a few weeks ago.According to a screen shot of Papadopoulos s Facebook page tweeted by Guardian UK reporter Jon Swaine, the former aide sought book publisher recommendations three weeks ago.
Interested in meeting with a prominent publisher.
Recommendations welcome, wrote Papadopoulos.Meanwhile Hillary s camp paid MILLIONS of dollars for a Russian dossier, a fraudulent document that most likely prompted a FISA warrant and ultimately led to the unmasking of Trump and his associates.