Following a leftist agenda is no longer optional.
Follow their rules or be subject to fines The guide states, The District uses the probable cause standard in determining whether the above constitute harassment or a hostile work environment.
Stephanie Franklin, OHR s interim director of policy and communications, confirmed in an email that Any workplace environment in DC private businesses included in which supervisors or co-workers deliberately misuse a person s preferred name or pronoun may be considered unlawful harassment and/or a hostile work environment according to DC law.
The best practices guide featues a chart on gender and gender-neutral pronouns that includes the gender-neutral pronoun ze.
The chart includes example phrases using the gender-neutral pronoun, such as Ze smiled, I met zir, Zir bike and Ze is zirself.
Regardless of the legal name and gender, employers should use an employee s desired name and pronouns when communicating with them, and when talking about them to third parties, the guide states.The guide says, The employer must ensure employees respect and use a transgender employee s preferred names and pronouns, as repeated failure to do so can be considered harassment, and can cause severe distress to a transgender employee.
The guide also make clear that employees should be allowed to use the bathroom in which they re most comfortable .
Transgender employees should at all times be able to use the restroom and other gender-segregated facilities (such as locker rooms) that they are most comfortable with, the guide states.In the 2015 fiscal year, 307 discrimination complaints (including race, gender and disability complaints) ended in settlements via the mediation process.
In 2015, the annual report states, more than $3.69 million was awarded in settlements during successful mediations, a 74 percent increase over [the 2014 fiscal year].
That averages out to more than $12,000 per settlement.
According to non-profit organization Workplace Fairness, D.C. s anti-discrimination protections are broader than federal law because you may prove your case by showing that your employer acted wholly or partially for discriminatory reasons, and because you can bring an individual claim against your supervisor for aiding and abetting discrimination.
Via: Daily Caller