The right wing is still harping on the FBI s discovery of new emails that supposedly relate to the probe into Hillary Clinton.
As expected, Trump has seized on this news as an opportunity to continue trying to smear her all over the pavement.
This time, though, his statements about her emails go totally off into the ether: Can you imagine Anthony Weiner has probably every classified email ever sent?
Probably studied every single one in between using his machine for other purposes.Including some brand new emails not previously turned over to authorities.
Likely including some very, very classified information.
Because he totally knows what s going on better than anyone else.
But he s probably getting desperate RealClearPolitics has Hillary ahead in most major polls despite this latest piece of a non-scandal that Republicans keep trying to use to crush her.It s still not yet clear what the FBI is seeing in these emails, so Trump s conclusions are even more questionable.
However, of the 650,000 emails found, it s likely that only a small number might be relevant to the original investigation.
Also, investigators would still have to find evidence that she knowingly broke the law, because Comey previously decided not to charge her.Earlier, Trump claimed that these emails were worse than Watergate, and one of the prosecutors for Watergate promptly destroyed him for that.
There is no evidence of any violation of law, he said.
For Trump to reach that conclusion based on a total lack of evidence is reminiscent of the innuendo spread by Joseph McCarthy in the early 1950s.
For Trump to continue firing up his loyal subjects by claiming that Anthony Weiner must have closely studied all these emails is just as bad, because he s still not presenting evidence.
Just ridiculous suspicions.
He hears the word emails in association with Hillary, and he jumps on it like a fly to feces because that s all he knows how to do.His supporters chanted, Lock her up!
as they usually do, while the FBI remains busy tearing itself apart over this.
Trump will say anything to get elected, no matter how far-fetched, ridiculous, and just plain stupid it is.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images