As the New York primary draws closer and closer, Hillary Clinton, current front runner in the Democratic Party, is slated to win by a comfortable margin (for now).
New York, a solid Democratic state when heading into the general, is also a very diverse state which is good for Clinton.According to Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight, New York s diversity is why Clinton will most likely win on Tuesday.
In fact, according to Silver s measures, Clinton s wins in heavily diverse states like Texas, Nevada, Florida, South Carolina, etc.
most closely represents the Democratic electorate in the general election.Silver predicts, through meticulous exit polling data and election trends, that the citizens who cast their vote for the Democratic nominee in November will be 54 percent white, 24 percent black, 15 percent Latino / Hispanic, and 7 percent Asian.
That s a pretty diverse electorate, something Democrats should take pride in.Silver also says this is why Clinton will most likely be the nominee.
As Silver writes, Clinton s major wins in states like Florida and Texas are embody the coalition Democrats need to win:In addition to being important to the Democratic Party s electoral present and future, Florida, Virginia, North Carolina and Texas are quite diverse.
They re diverse ideologically Miami and Austin aren t exactly the most conservative part of the country and they re diverse racially.
They contain not only a substantial number of African-Americans but also Hispanics and, increasingly, Asian-American voters.In fact, these states are among the most demographically representative of the diverse Obama coalition that Clinton or Sanders will have to rely on in NovemberThe states whose primaries most resemble the real Democrat electorate are:One of Clinton s strengths comes from the black vote, which carried her to an impressive sweep of the South.Summed up:In other words, Clinton has won or is favored to win almost every state where the turnout demographics strongly resemble those of Democrats as a whole.
This shouldn t be surprising Clinton is winning nationally by about 14 percentage points in the popular vote.
So if you re in a state that s well-representative of Democrats national demographics, you might expect her to win it by a solid margin too.This isn t to say Sanders hasn t won some diverse states that vote Democratic he crushed Clinton in Hawaii, and pulled off a major upset in Michigan.
Should he win the nomination, he ll win virtually every demographic versus any Republican candidate as will Clinton if she s the nominee.
Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images