During a segment of Closer Look, Seth Meyers examined the reality that is an inevitable Donald Trump GOP presidential nomination.After Trump s win in Indiana, The Zodiac Killer Ted Cruz dropped out of the race.
Meyers spent the beginning of the segment recounting Cruz s final moments before the fall of his campaign.
That fall was partly literal.
In a last ditch effort, Cruz had announced Carly Fiorina as his VP pick and running mate for the campaign.
During a campaign event, Fiorina fell while on stage.
Meyers played a clip of Trump roasting Cruz over his lack of effort to try and help Fiorina out during the event.
Trump said that even he would have helped her.Meyers commented on Trump s statement saying: Even I would have helped her.
Not only does Trump know he s an asshole, he knows that we know he s an asshole.
Even I would have helped her and watching women fall down is basically my favorite thing,' Meyers said while impersonating Trump.Later in the segment, Meyers gets savage with this one question for the GOP: This should be a serious moment of introspection for Republicans.
How did they get to the point where they re handing their nomination to a race-baiting, xenophobic serial liar who peddles conspiracy theories?
It probably has to do with the GOP s southern strategy.
After the fall of the old Jim Crow, Republicans took advantage of southern white people s racism.
They invented a coded language that would allow them to say and do incredibly racist things while in public.
How else would the GOP get poor whites to vote for the interests of the rich?The reason that the GOP is about to have a race-baiting, xenophobic serial liar who peddles conspiracy theories is because they have spent the last 40 years crystallizing a public that will consent to such rule.
When working class white people are confronted with hyper objects such as income inequality or other concepts hard to personally conceptualize, they default to a leader who gives them the answers they were taught to accept as reality.You can watch the segment below, in full.Featured image from video screenshot