Trump s team is taking historical revisionism to a whole new level.During an appearance on CNN with Victor Blackwell, Donald Trump s mouthpiece Katrina Pierson claimed that President Obama is responsible for creating ISIS because he invaded Afghanistan.
If you want to go way back, we can look at the troop surge, Pierson said.
And after 2007, al Qaeda was essentially in ashes.
It was Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton who then destroyed the entire rollout by wanting to pull out early, announcing their plans, ignoring intelligence and that s the reason why ISIS is a global issue and not a A confused Blackwell interrupted.
Barack Obama in 2004, is that what you said?
he asked.And Pierson s rant just got even more confusing.
No, Pierson responded.
I said afterwards.
After the surge when al Qaeda was in ashes.
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton remember we weren t even in Afghanistan by this time.
Barack Obama went into Afghanistan creating another problem.
It was Hillary Clinton and her incidents in Libya.
They armed the rebels and funded them.
Blackwell gave Pierson another chance to get her facts straight but she only continued trying to rewrite American history.BLACKWELL: You re saying Barack Obama took the country into Afghanistan post-2009.
Is that what you re saying?
PIERSON: Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton that was Obama s war, yes.
Here s the video via YouTube:Of course, Pierson is absolutely wrong.The United States invaded Afghanistan in 2001 during George W. Bush s first year as president.
President Obama took office in 2009 and inherited the War in Afghanistan.So if we go by Pierson s logic, that means George W. Bush and Republicans are responsible for the rise of ISIS because they were the ones who took America into Afghanistan.This isn t the first time Pierson has blamed President Obama for a war started by Bush.Earlier this month, Pierson falsely claimed that President Obama is responsible for the death of Captain Humayun Khan, who sacrificed his life in Iraq to save his fellow American soldiers in 2004.
It was under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton that changed the rules of engagement that probably cost (Khan s) life, she said.But again, George W. Bush was president when the United States invaded Iraq in 2003.
Obama was a senator at the time and he voted AGAINST the invasion.
The Iraq War created a power vacuum that strengthened Iran s power in the region and allowed ISIS to rise.And Blackwell thoroughly fact-checked Pierson after the commercial break by giving her a history lesson.
The origin of ISIS began in Iraq in 2004 and morphed into the organization we know today in 2006.Here s the video via Twitter.
@bigcmurr Here is the follow up where Victor Blackwell fact checks Katrina Pierson and her ISIS history.. pic.twitter.com/4FhelNe7ah Richard W. (@IceManNYR) August 13, 2016And it should be noted that President Bush signed the status of forces agreement that led to the withdrawal of all American troops from Iraq, thus giving ISIS the opportunity to take over large swaths of the country.Nevertheless, the tradition of Republicans blaming President Obama for everything that happened under George W. Bush s watch continues.Featured Image: Screenshot