This woman has no shame1 Muslim activist Linda Sarsour (remember the fake women s march?)
has been caught sending money meant for hurricane relief to a lefty political PAC.
She tweeted out about it and was hammered on twitter for twisting the truth:Texas Organizing Project is not my PAC, but who cares about facts when you are white supremacists obsessed w/ smearing women of color.
https://t.co/MsY3lAwbLs Linda Sarsour (@lsarsour) August 31, 2017The denial was a Clintonian twist on words.
This woman pulls the race card when confronted with her crime?Just in case you haven t heard of Sarsour:Approximately 200,000 people participated in a Women s March in D.C. on Saturday.
One of the organizers of the march, Linda Sarsour is a Pro-Palestine Muslim activist.She also advocates for Sharia Law in America and has ties to terrorist organization, Hamas.Linda Sarsour, one of the organizers behind Saturday s Women s March, being held in Washington, D.C., was recently spotted at a large Muslim convention in Chicago posing for pictures with an accused financier for Hamas, the terrorist group.Sarsour, the head of the Arab American Association of New York and an Obama White House Champion of Change, was speaking at last month s 15th annual convention of the Muslim American Society and Islamic Circle of North America.While there, she posed for a picture with Salah Sarsour, a member of the Islamic Society of Milwaukee and former Hamas operative who was jailed in Israel in the 1990s because of his alleged work for the terrorist group.Though she avoids discussing it now, Sarsour has acknowledged in past interviews that she has cousins serving prison time in Israel because of their work for Hamas.Sarsour has denied having any contact with the terror group.
She told The New York Times in 2012 that she would not have been appointed an Obama Champion of Change if she had.The activist has risen to national attention recently.
She served as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention, and she is one of four lead organizers for the Women s March.
Daily CallerThe fact that an Islamic faction was one of the organizers of the Women s March is laughable at best.
Islam is responsible for the worst abuses of women and children not only throughout history, but at present day.
Islamic supremacists who wish to impose Sharia law in America have infiltrated various leftist movements in order to appear as an oppressed minority.
GP