Every player on the Cahokia Quarterback Club football team (8 and under) took a knee during the national anthem ahead of Sunday s game at Little Devil s Field in Belleville.
One of the kids asked me if I saw (people) protesting and rioting in St. Louis.
I said yes; I said, Do you know why they are doing it?
said Coach Orlando Gooden.Coach Gooden said his player responded, Because black people are getting killed and nobody s going to jail.
Gooden, who played football at Mizzou, said the kids knew about the Jason Stockley decision.
I felt like it was a good teaching moment for me to circle the team and have a meeting, he said.Watch:Here are just a few shocking statistics the coach could have shared with his players about neighboring E. St. Louis, IL:WND- Before Ferguson exploded in reaction to the August shooting of black teen Michael Brown by police officer Darren Wilson, the St. Louis police chief raised eyebrows when he called for the use of drones to monitor high-crime areas.The proposal was a response to what St. Louis police authorities called subhuman, antisocial, urban terrorist behavior by criminals.St.
Louis also is homeof the notorious Knockout Game, a random but racially motivated assault that has claimed at least six lives.St.
Louis is 44 percent white and 49 percent black, but statistics shows a racial imbalance in crime.
Based on the city s official crime data for 2012 the most recent year which data are available 97.6 percent of those arrested for murder were black and 2.4 percent were white.
More than 82 percent of those arrested for serious crimes like murder, aggravated assault and larceny were black, while just 17.5 percent arrested were white.Black males in St. Louis were responsible for the vast majority (63.5 percent) of crimes committed.
Other groups contribute significantly less to the serious crimes in St. Louis.
White males made up 17 percent of arrests, black females were 14 percent of arrests and white females only 5.3 percent of arrests.There are other strange imbalances in arrests: Black females were arrested for 14 murders compared with three white males arrested for murder.
Black females were arrested for more robberies, aggravated assaults and larcenies than white males.These are just a few of the lowlights in a city on the verge of becoming, as U.S. News said, the most dangerous city in America.Consider one violent night in St. Louis last June when 18 people were shot in seven different shootings.
Bloody Night Leaves Many in St. Louis Outraged read one headline.However, some of the shooting victims were not outraged enough to cooperate with law enforcement.
St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay described the no snitchin mentality of many crime victims: These are disputes, and there are victims who won t talk to the police, the mayor said.
Trying to make an arrest isn t that simple.
In one case, they ve got (multiple) people shot and not one of them would identify the shooter.
Slay remarked, In the vast majority of these cases, people are using their guns to settle their own petty feuds, and that s really what s very unfortunate and outrageous about this.
Local news reported on a shooting in a housing complex involving an AK-47 in which a black male armed with the AK-47 came around the corner [and] started shooting at an 18-year-old woman and four of her friends.Juanita Sparks, 60, of St. Louis told reporters, I am tired of thugs.
Colin Gordon, author of Mapping Decline: St. Louis and the Fate of the American City, calls St. Louis the poster child of white flight.
However, middle- and upper-middle class blacks are also leaving the city in significant numbers.The Cahokia football coach, who had the perfect opportunity to educate these young minds about getting a good education and staying away from a dead-end life of crime, instead, took the opportunity to disrespect the law enforcement officers tasked with protecting these crime-ridden neighborhoods.
The coach said he spoke to them about that and other situations that have happened in our country.
He then explained why former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick started kneeling during the anthem.
Fox 2