We re wondering if Sen. Lindsey Graham (R) is OK.
He just doesn t seem to be himself lately.
The South Carolina Republican was so fiercely critical of alleged president Donald Trump, but that s all suddenly changed now.
Graham, who once called Trump a jackass, praised the amateur president on Saturday as a leader who is open-minded and is even willing to reach out for help, even late at night, according to the Washington Examiner.
What have I learned about our president?
He s curious, he asks questions, and he knows no fear, Graham said in his remarks at the South Carolina Republican convention.
And he s under siege unlike any president I ve ever seen in my entire life They don t believe he won; I do.
Now Obama was somewhat hard for us, but I thought we were somewhat respectful, Graham added without one bit of irony whatsoever.Graham then went to on to disrespect former President Barack Obama by calling him a community organizer who apologized for America every turn all over the world.
Let me tell you that you have a commander in chief that s not going to let this country get walked over anymore, he said.And that s really cute, don t you think?
He said that of Obama who had 20 years of experience under his belt before taking the job as President while praising a former reality show star who had zero experience in politics.
He calls and I m honored that he would call me and I want to help him, he said.
He calls me when I m asleep and he calls me after I go to bed.
I wish he would rest more.
I gave him my phone number.
So far so good.
It s nice he has a cozy relationship with a man who just recently penned him a letter to assure him that he has no connections to Russia.
Lindsey Graham requested that information.
Trump s lawyers said in the letter that a review of the last 10 years of Trump s tax returns revealed that he has no income from Russia with a few exceptions.
Here s the kicker: The law firm who sent the letter actually has deep ties to wait for it Russia.
Lindsey Graham appeared to be that one Republican with a spine willing to call out the White House, but now he s rolling over while claiming that Republicans respected Obama.
Democrats are just being big ol meanies to the man who is plagued in scandals while only 120ish days into the job.Trump, for the record, is the same man who dogged Obama for years, insisting that our first black President was actually a scary Muslim from Kenya.
Obama did not have conflicts of interest.
The biggest scandal at this same amount of time during Obama s presidency was that he put Dijon mustard on his hamburger.
That was the big scandal featured on Fox News for a week.
In contrast, Trump has a massive amount of conflicts of interest.Sure, Lindsey, we ll give Trump the same respect Republicans gave Obama.
No problem!Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images.