Republican presidential candidate and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush has once again reminded everyone of how awful his older brother was for America.Jeb, who has been struggling in the polls andis nowhere near being a potential 2016 nominee for the Republican party, tried to make a (completely awkward) joke about Hurricane Katrina during a campaign stop in South Carolina.
Jeb had been trying to compliment South Carolina State Sen. Katrina Shealy and thought it would be appropriate to do so by nicknaming her after the hurricane, which was responsible for the deaths of almost 2,000 people.
Bush said, in front of the audience in Lexington: In fact, when I was governor, in 16 months we had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms.
One of them was called Katrina.
I don t know why your great state senator reminds me of a hurricane.
But she does.
She s strong and she s fierce, and she s solving problems for you at the state capitol.
You should be honored to have her as your elected official.
I hope you agree with that.
That should be your nickname.
In the Bush family, we always give out nicknames.
Yours is now Hurricane Katrina.
Here s a video of Jeb telling his joke:Shealy, who is a Republican, called the nickname endearing and sweet, and said in an interview with CNN: Everybody in my family, when they had Hurricane Katrina, it was kind of like a big joke in my family because I m the feisty one in the family.
I m the one that kinda bosses everybody around.
When Jeb made that statement, he didn t consider that his nickname might actually be reminding people about how disastrous the government s response to the 2005 hurricane was under the control of former President George W. Bush, and that it s been regarded as one of the lowest points of his presidency.
Because of Bush s pathetic handling of the hurricane, Hurricane Katrina became the most costly national disaster in America s history.
The former president s response was widely criticized, as people blasted him for sitting on his hands as the natural disaster devastated southern states.Of course, Jeb received loads of backlash for his comment, as people jumped to give him a dose of reality:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterFollowing Jeb s comments, The Daily Beast asked Jeb s communications team for comment on the weird joke, and was instead given a transcript of what Jeb said.
Later, The Daily Beast got a message from Jeb himself, stating that It was a joke.
When the news source asked Jeb if he felt his joke was insensitive, he said No.
TwitterTwitterJeb has made quite the habit of positively framing his older brother s most disgraceful presidential performances.
In the past, Jeb was under fire for defending Bush s terrorism record, seemingly having forgotten all about 9/11.Featured image is a screenshot