Time to exhale James Barack Obama supporter James Taylor doesn t just think the U.S. president is great he believes Obama is the greatest of all-time.
I ve been watching politics since (Dwight) Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson, when dinosaurs roamed the Earth, and Obama is my favorite, favorite president, Taylor said in an interview Wednesday.
I am just thankful for every day that he s in office.
I am so proud that he represents my country and I think he represents me I think he represents the America that I know.
Taylor, 67, is a recipient of the National Medal of Arts.
The pop icon performed America the Beautiful at Obama s second inauguration in 2013.
I had a really tough time during the Cheney-Bush years, I did, and I had a hard time accepting that that administration represented me because I don t think they did, Taylor said.The Rock and Roll Hall of Famer also called Obama s family precious and said he appreciates the U.S. leader because he s sane and balanced.
He promised to give us a health care system, it s a work in progress, but he has put us on a road to that, Taylor said.
I m so grateful for what he s done for gay rights and for the emancipation of gay people.
Particularly from my point of view, I think that was so overdue and so important, and so important for America to be ahead of the curve on this.
Taylor criticized Congress in Obama s defense.
I ve never seen a Congress that has been so obstructive and so contrary and so committed to doing anything that will foul up this administration.
I just think it s an absolute scandal that he has had so little cooperation, he said.
So anyway, you hit a nerve and I ll go on forever.
But I ll just say it a third time: Every day that Barack Obama and Michelle Obama are in the White House is a day that I am thankful for.
Obama isn t the only politician Taylor is supporting: The singer said he s on the Hillary Rodham Clinton train, too.
And aside from the fact that she s a woman running, she s the right person.
The whole point black or white, male or female, gay or straight, Christian, Jewish, Muslim, atheist it doesn t matter what these other connections are, he said.
Our country needs to come together and the question is, Is this public servant someone who will bring us together?
And I think she is.
Taylor will release a new album, Before This World, on June 16, and will perform a concert for SiriusXM at The Apollo in New York City on the same day.
He will also launch a U.S. tour in July.Via: AP News