Amateur president Donald Trump used his commencement speech at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy on Wednesday to make the day all about him.
Trump did not address the scandals which have inundated the White House directly, but indirectly he did by saying that he s receiving unfair treatment by the media.
Even though Trump s scandals have been compared to Watergate, he said, Look at the way I ve been treated lately.
Especially by the media.
Trump whined that no politician in history, and I say this with great surety, has been treated worse or more unfairly.
Apparently, the former reality show star has forgotten how he treated Barack Obama, dogging our first black president for years with baseless allegations saying that he s a scary Muslim from Kenya.Trump gave the cadets some advice, saying that they will need to fight, fight, fight.
Over the course of your life, you will find that things are not always fair.
You will find that things happen to you that you do not deserve and that are not always warranted, he said, seemingly referring to bombshell reports, which he even admitted to on Twitter, saying he disclosed highly classified information to top Russian officials.
Or he could be referring to the other bombshell reports, stating that he asked former FBI Director James Comey to shut down an investigation into his first national security adviser, Michael Flynn.Trump went on to brag that he s accomplished a tremendous amount in a very short time.
Then he boasted of his upcoming first international trip which is to begin on Friday.
As you leave this academy to embark on your exciting new voyage, Trump said, I am heading on a very crucial journey, as well.
In a few days, I will make my first trip abroad as President.
Things will work out just fine, Trump concluded.
Great honor.
Good luck.
Enjoy your life.
Watch:Poor Trump, the media has treated him so unfairly by quoting him verbatim.
When Flynn was forced to resign, he called the disgraced retired General a wonderful man then went on to blame the fake media.
Tell me if this sounds familiar.
Michael Flynn, Gen. Flynn, is a wonderful man.
I think he has been treated very, very unfairly by the media, as I call it, the fake media in many cases, Trump said at the time.
And I think it s really a sad thing that he was treated so badly.
And today, President Bone Spurs addressed graduates who may be headed to active duty to cry about the fake news media.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images.