President Obama made what was billed as an economic speech in Elkhart, Indiana but in reality it was his first speech of the presidential campaign and was a preview of the sort of case he will make against Donald Trump this fall.Obama made it clear he was speaking about Trump, telling the crowd, If we fall for a bunch of okeydoke just because it sounds funny or the tweets are provocative then we re not going to build on the progress that we started.
Echoing the speaking style that led him to back-to-back presidential victories, Obama picked apart, step by step, many of the Republican complaints about his administration.Obama told the crowd he would do some mythbusting, to loud applause.
He pointed out that Donald Trump s claim that other countries are killing us on trade and that immigrants are taking American jobs are just completely myths.
He also explained that he wanted to bust this myth of crazy liberal government spending hurting economic growth.He pointed out that in nearly every measure of the economy, compared to how it was before he came into office, things are much improved.The White House released a series of tweets and graphs pointing out over and over how his leadership has transformed the economy for the better: Over the past six years, our businesses have created more than 14 million new jobs."
@POTUS in Elkhart pic.twitter.com/BYknKBnaa0 The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 1, 2016 For the first time ever, more than ninety percent of the country has health insurance.
@POTUS on Elkhart pic.twitter.com/MsHaN1fnHh The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 1, 2016 Our deficits haven t grown these past seven and a half years; we ve cut them by almost 75%.
@POTUS pic.twitter.com/k24EI0FGQ6 The White House (@WhiteHouse) June 1, 2016Obama also pointed out that Republicans have been wrapped up this cult of small government, when in reality the government has a role to play in helping to keep the economy going.
The President pointed out as well that Trump s proposal to weaken regulations on Wall Street is crazy.
Discussing economic inequality and worker s rights, Obama explained that these issues were better addressed when more families belonged to unions, and that the move from 1 in 4 families being in unions to now it being 1 in 10 has hurt wage growth.
Obama noted, It s not a coincidence that as union membership shrank, inequality grew and wages stagnated .
He added, America shouldn t be changing our laws to make it harder for workers to organize.
Repeatedly during the speech, Obama encouraged journalists to fact check his claims, and told the audience if they doubted his statements they should look it up.
The election has begun, and President Obama is on the trail.
Watch out, Trump.Featured image via YouTube