Donald Trump isn t enjoying his time as President.
In a series of interviews marking the first 100 days of his presidency, he s done an awful lot of whining and complaining, including saying that the job is much harder than he thought.One of the reasons the job is so hard for him is that he s not a dictator, as much as he d like to be one.
His powers are limited by a document called the Constitution and that frustrates the hell out of him, even though he has an entirely Republican federal government.In an interview with Fox News on Friday, Trump appeared to have learned a new word, and he used it four times in reference to the Constitution.
That word was archaic, and in his context, it was particularly disconcerting because it signaled his desire to completely do away with the constraints of the Constitution and with our system of checks and balances.Remember when White nationalist House stooge and millennial most likely to be punched Steven Miller said that that the powers of the president to protect our country are very substantial and will not be questioned?
A collective chill went up the spines of thinking Americans.
Be prepared to feel that chill again.
Here s what Trump said on Friday.In an interview with Fox News to mark the 100-day mark, he declared himself disappointed with congressional Republicans, despite his many great relationships with them.He blamed the constitutional checks and balances built in to US governance.
It s a very rough system, he said.
It s an archaic system It s really a bad thing for the country.
Here s the video:Mostly, Trump wants to get rid of the filibuster.
He has no authority whatsoever over the rules of the Senate, and while the Senate leadership could change the rules, in theory, it would be quite short-sighted because it would mean that the next time Democrats have even a slim majority, Republicans would be powerless to get anything accomplished or to stop a Democratic agenda.When President Obama wasn t able to get past the filibuster, Donald Trump called him weak and ineffectual.
Now that the loafer is on Trump s foot, it s the Constitution s fault.
Do you have chills yet?Featured image via Getty Images/Pool