Donald Trump was right again!
This is yet another example of the media distorting or just not telling the truth.
Several news sources have slammed Trump and said he s lying about what happened on 9/11.
Not only is this disturbing, but it brings into question so much more about 9/11.American Thinker s Ed Straker gets to the heart of the media s refusal to report on Muslim support for 9/11:Why does any of this matter?
The media continue to try to paint Trump as a bigot.
This all ties into the refugee question.
If we admit more refugees, will some be sympathetic to terrorists?
It s easy to get to yes if you know, as I do, that some here already support terrorism.Since our refugees come from other countries, not New Jersey, you would think the media would want to examine foreign Muslim support for radical Islam.
You would think they would want to see these polls showing alarming percentages of foreign Muslims who support attacks on America.
And have a look at this poll, which shows that 5% of Muslim Americans support radical Islam and 14% of American Muslims claim to have no opinion of radical Islam.
Admitting more Muslims to America during this time of war exposes Americans to large and unwarranted risks.But this is not the question the media want to look at.
They are only interested in Muslims in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Perhaps they should look into the arrest of this Islamic bomber who lived in Jersey City, or how the Islamic Center of Jersey City promotes jihad, or the arrest of this West New Yorker (that s right next to Jersey City) who was providing support for ISIS.The Washington Post reported on September 18, 2001 one week after the 9/11 Islamic terror attacks, that the law enforcement officers were investigating people in Muslim enclaves of Jersey City, New Jersey who were seen the day of the attacks celebrating and holding rooftop parties to watch the aftermath of the attack on the Twin Towers unfold across the Hudson River in New York City.
One of the Post s reporters later stated his sources were eyewitnesses and Jersey City police officers.The issue of Muslims in New Jersey celebrating the attacks was raised recently by leading Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.Excerpt from the Washington Post: The FBI investigation into the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon has led agents back to a familiar area: northern New Jersey.
It was there, in Jersey City, just across the Hudson River from Manhattan, that a Muslim cell plotted the 1993 bombing of the twin towers and sought to destroy other New York landmarks as part of an urban guerrilla war against the United States.
It is believed that 13 of those detained by federal authorities for questioning in its probe into the worst terrorist act in U.S. history are from northeastern New Jersey, some from the same Journal Square area where suspects in the 1993 bombing lived.
In October 1995, Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, an Egyptian cleric who delivered fiery sermons at a run-down mosque in Jersey City, was convicted of directing the conspiracy to blow up the United Nations, an FBI building, and three bridges and tunnels linking New York and New Jersey.
He was also convicted of being part of a plot to kill Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Sayyid Nosair of Jersey City and Cliffside Park was also charged in the 1990 killing of Rabbi Meir Kahane in Manhattan.
The Kahane murder was the beginning of a series of militant acts by the Muslim cell that was encouraged by Abdel-Rahman, the group s spiritual leader.
Jersey City, an urban enclave of 240,055 people that is home to one of the largest Arab populations among U.S. cities In Jersey City, within hours of two jetliners plowing into the World Trade Center, law enforcement authorities detained and questioned a number of people who were allegedly seen celebrating the attacks and holding tailgate-style parties on rooftops while they watched the devastation on the other side of the river.
H/t PowerlineJohn Hindraker at Powerline reported the Post article earlier Sunday and added that one of the reporters on the story, Serge F. Kovaleski, had informed a researcher, Irfan Khawaja, who was looking into whether Muslims in northern New Jersey had celebrated the 9/11 attacks that his sources for the report on Jersey City were Jersey City police officers.Then there is this follow-up from Irfan Khawaja in July 2004:In an email to me on Dec. 16, 2003, Kovaleski indicated that his information had come from the Jersey City Police Department, and that he had confirmed the JCPD s information via interviews of eyewitnesses of the celebration.I don t think Trump saw anyone celebrating in Jersey City on television, but I could be wrong about that.
In any event, NPR, the New York Times and the Associated Press are simply wrong when they tell their audiences that there is no evidence of Muslims in America celebrating on September 11, and no contemporaneous news stories to that effect.Why does this happen?
Are NPR, the Times and the AP incapable of using Google?
Perhaps.
But here is another possibility: note that the Times and the AP coyly limited their denials to news accounts of mass cheering or mass celebrations in Jersey City.
I think they found the Washington Post story but preferred not to mention it.
Instead, they deceived their readers by silently making the implicit judgment that a number of people are not a mass.
I think that these news outlets are so hysterically eager to discredit any concerns about Islam that they won t let something as minor as the facts get in their way.
There is dishonesty here, but it is on the part of NPR, the New York Times and the Associated Press, not Donald Trump.Jersey City Longshot From The West: NO HATE HERE MOVE ALONG: