President Trump on Sunday tweeted a video of him body-slamming World Wrestling Entertainment Chairman Vince McMahon whose face was replaced by the CNN logo.The tweet, which said, #FraudNewsCNN #FNN, linked to a video of the president decking, pummeling and then shaving off McMahon s hair during a Battle of the Billionaires stunt at WrestleMania XXIII in 2007.#FraudNewsCNN #FNN pic.twitter.com/WYUnHjjUjg Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 2, 2017McMahon is the husband of Linda McMahon, who heads Trump s Small Business Administration.President Barack Obama hosted felon and radical organizer Bob Creamer (the guy who was caught on video talking about how he was organizing paid protesters to incite violence at Trump rallies) at the White House over 100 times while he was in office.
After the undercover video was released that exposed the Democrats plan to incite violence against innocent Trump supporters, the media was silent.
The media was also silent when it was discovered that Obama s Attorney General Eric Holder, used taxpayer funds to pay people to protest against George Zimmerman in the heated Trayvon Martin case, which was the birthplace of the violent Black Lives Matter movement.
Those protests marked the first step in Obama s plan to divide America.In a statement on Twitter, CNN recalled comments from White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders last week that the president doesn t condone violence against the media.
The President in no way form or fashion has ever promoted or encouraged violence.
If anything, quite the contrary.
@SHSanders45 6/29/17, the CNN tweet said.Bipartisan condemnation against the take-down video continued to build Sunday morning.GOP Rep. Eric Swalwell urged all Republicans to rebuke the Tweet or be complicit in its message.
I am calling on EVERY @HouseGOP Member of Congress to condemn this.
You were elected to be a check on power.
Check it, or you condone it, the California representative tweeted on Sunday.Minority House Leader Nancy Pelosi also blasted the tweet.
Violence & violent imagery to bully the press must be rejected.
This #July4th, celebrate freedom of the press, guardians to our democracy, she wrote on Twitter.Paul Joseph Watson sums up the media hypocrisy beautifully with this one tweet:Trump is "inciting violence" with a wrestling meme, says same media that literally painted a crosshair target on Trump's head.
pic.twitter.com/m8V8XjYHU0 Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) July 2, 2017A Trump administration official said he doesn t view Trump s tweet as inciting violence against the media.
Certainly not, though I think that no one would perceive that as a threat.
I hope they don t. I do think that [Trump is] beaten up in a way on cable platforms that he has a right to respond to, Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert said on ABC s This Week.
He said cable news shows are not always very fair to the president, who developed a social media platform to speak directly to the American people.
Trump is the most genuine president and the most non-politician president we ve seen in my lifetime, he said.Watch #FakeNewsCNN experts call Trump Dangerous and a Fascist :The president was also the subject of bipartisan scorn last Thursday when he posted the bleeding badly tweet about Brzezinski, with many lawmakers saying it was beneath the dignity of the office.Trump defended his use of social media in a tweet on Saturday.
My use of social media is not Presidential it s MODERN DAY PRESIDENTIAL.
Make America Great Again!, he wrote.
NYPNOTE TO CNN: Re-tweeting a video that s been around for years showing a fake body-slam by then businessman Trump is a far cry from promoting violence.
If you were so concerned about violence, why didn t you do any stories on felon, husband of a United States Congresswoman and Democrat operative who was caught on tape planning to incite violence at Trump rallies before he even became our President?