Notre Dame students are freaking out over Vice President Pence s planned commencement speech.
Once again, the college snowflakes are trying to shut down free speech.
How will these students ever survive in the real world?The college is breaking with a 60-year tradition by not inviting the sitting president to speak.
Instead, the University President announced Pence s scheduled visit noting he s a native son : It is fitting that in the 175th year of our founding on Indiana soil that Notre Dame recognize a native son who served our state and now the nation with quiet earnestness, moral conviction and a dedication to the common good characteristic of true statesmen, said Notre Dame President Rev.
John I. Jenkins, C.S.C.
With his own brand of reserved dignity, Mike Pence instilled confidence on the state level then, and on the world stage now.
We are proud to welcome him to represent the new administration.
Notre Dame students protesting VP Pence as this year s commencement speaker because it makes them feel unsafe pic.twitter.com/W7mJoFp6dV FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) April 12, 2017 University of Notre Dame students have begun a #NotMyCommencementSpeaker white board campaign to protest the invitation of Vice President Mike Pence to speak at Commencement.Last week, seniors Immane Mondane and Jourdyhn Williams invited students to take photos holding white boards with direct quotes from Pence that are racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, offensive, or ostracizing to members of our community, along with the hashtag #NotMyCommencementSpeaker.
Alternatively, students could also write about why they feel unsafe with the presence of Mike Pence on our campus, with daily opportunities to have photos taken with their whiteboards through the week.Once all the photos have been compiled, the organizers plan to share them on social media in hopes of starting a discussion about Pence s invitation.
For me personally, Pence represents the larger Trump administration, Mondane told The Observer.
His administration represents something, and for many people on our campus, it makes them feel unsafe to have someone who openly is offensive but also demeaning of their humanity and of their life and of their identity.
While the photos do not appear to have been posted yet, Mondane provided The Observer with several examples of the complaints that students shared.One student used a quote from Pence favoring traditional marriage, writing on their board, Congress should oppose any effort to put gay and lesbian relationships on an equal status with heterosexual marriage -Pence #NotMyCommencementSpeaker.
Another read, Because I am the daughter of Immigrants Family of LGBTQ folks.
Read more: Campus Reform