Paul Ryan attended the Al Smith dinner last night and proceeded to take swipes at President Trump the entire time.
Not funny!
He just looked like a jerk reading bad and insulting jokes from a script.
Watch below:WATCH: Speaker Paul Ryan roasts President Trump at Al Smith dinner.
Read more: https://t.co/C6yskrO5Yu pic.twitter.com/PinNgUr7v3 NBC News (@NBCNews) October 20, 2017The Al Smith Dinner is a Catholic fundraiser for needy children that celebrates its 72nd year this year.
It s known for its jokes and roasting of political figures.
The Catholic fundraiser for New York s neediest children included a who s who of New York politicians, among them Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov.
Andrew Cuomo.
Emmy Award-winning Patricia Heaton served as the event s first-ever woman emcee.Ryan hit at President Trump several times during his speech: I m learning being Speaker of the House is a stepping stone to becoming ex-Speaker of the House.
But just because I m speaker, you did not have to invite me, Ryan quipped.This is probably NOT the best time to focus on bashing President Trump but it s no secret that globalist Ryan isn t a huge fan.
He famously said during the 2016 campaign that he would fight against Trump s agenda:The October conference call apparently was intended only for House Republican members.
It s unclear which or how many House Republicans took part in the call, whether the participants knew it was being recorded, who made the recording, or whether a recording exists of the entire call.
The remarks on the portion provided to Breitbart News certainly sound like they were coming from Speaker Ryan, who seemed to be abandoning his party s presidential nominee altogether just weeks before the election.
He says not only will he not defend the Access Hollywood comments, but he will not campaign with Trump at all between this call on Oct. 10, 2016, and the general election for the presidency on Nov. 8 and that Ryan would not defend Trump on anything generally.
For entire story- Matthew Boyle, Breitbart NewsLISTEN:Globalist RINOs like Paul Ryan hate Trump s agenda because it focuses on the American people 100%.
Ryan has famously supported cheap foreign labor that kills American jobs and has expressed his dislike for Trump s wall that would prevent the flood of illegals we have now.
The bottom line is that Ryan is part of the swamp that Trump wants to drain.
Let s hope Ryan is out soon!