Donald Trump has been on an insane Twitter rampage lately, and it s been beyond terrifying for everyone watching.
Trump has not only been crying about fake news and the opposition of his disgusting Muslim ban, but his narcissism is clearly out of control.Throughout his transition and beginning weeks of his presidency, Trump has made CNN a target because the news outlet dared to hold his team accountable, and the network just hit back at Trump again.
Just days after turning down an interview with Kellyanne Conway because she lacked credibility, CNN s Jake Tapper nailed Trump for his recent tweets and made an absolute mockery of the most undeserving POTUS we ve ever had.Tapper comically said that Trump s tweets are windows into his soul, right before rattling off several disturbing tweets that Trump had posted recently.
The tweets jumped from criticism of the federal judge who blocked his Muslim ban to fake news to negative polls.
Throughout the clip, Tapper tries to translate Trump s Twitter babble.Taking on the tweet that said any negative polls are fake news , Tapper said: Got that.
Any polling suggesting anything negative about the president or his policies is not, in his view, real.
Tapper also attacked Trump for his comments about the judge that stopped his inhumane Muslim ban, and for spreading inaccurate information about legitimate polls: To sum up, if a judge rules against the president he is a so-called judge.
If a poll shows the majority of you disagrees with his policies, the poll is fake.
If a well-sourced news story reflects something unflattering about him, that story is fake.
Tapper then commented that Trump believes two fundamental pillars of our democracy are not legitimate if it doesn t work in his favor.
Then Tapper asked, Okay.
What about a known geopolitical foe of the United States like, say, I don t know, Russian President Vladimir Putin?
In the most surprising footage in the clip, Tapper played Trump s disastrous interview with Fox News Bill O Reilly where Trump praised and defended Russian leader Vladimir Putin and called Americans killers.
Tapper said what we were all thinking: Whoa!
So as long as we all know where we stand, I suppose.
Watch Tapper remind Trump that CNN isn t backing down below:Read more:Featured image via screenshot and Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images