Ryan has never made any secret about his desire to welcome immigrants to America.
How many will live with him in his large family home in the confines of his fenced in compound?
A recent Breitbart News investigation reveals that Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), who has a two-decade-long history of promoting open borders immigration policies, seems to support border fences for himself, even as he denies the American people those same protections.While Paul Ryan s omnibus spending bill does not provide funding for the mandatory completion of a 700-mile double-layer border fence that Congress promised the American people nearly a decade ago when it passed the 2006 Secure Fence Act, Paul Ryan has constructed a fence around his property.As Breitbart News s photographic documentation reveals, Ryan s home is surrounded by a tall border fence reinforced by equally high bushes ensuring both privacy and security.
Moreover, the fence is manned by an on-duty agent who guards his property s perimeter.
Upon even the slightest appearance of any unusual activity such as a 5 2 female taking a photograph of the fence Ryan s border agent will deploy into action to ensure the perimeter s sovereignty.Over the course of the past six months, there has been heightened national focus on Americans desire for a border fence following the GOP presidential frontrunners call for a border wall.
A Rasmussen Reports survey released in August of this year found that likely Republican voters, by greater than a 4-1 margin, support Donald Trump s plan to build a border wall (70 percent vs. 17 percent).
Amongst all likely voters, a majority (51 percent) support building the border wall.Congress promised the American people a 700-mile border fence in the 2006 Secure Fence Act.
However, funding for the project was subsequently gutted and, as a result, construction was never completed.While Paul Ryan s $1.1 trillion year-end omnibus spending package was able to allocate funding for immigration programs that benefit foreign nationals such as federal grants for lawless sanctuary cities and the U.S. resettlement tens of thousands of refugees his bill does not require an allotment of funds be spent on the completion of the 700-mile-long fence that the American voters were promised.Sen.
Jeff Sessions (R-AL)has previously highlighted the hypocrisy of immigration expansionists who surround their homes with border fences and monitor who comes on their property but do not apparently believe the American people deserve the same protections.
Sessions pointed specifically to open borders advocate Mark Zuckerberg who, according to reports, spent $30 million buying the surrounding four homes around his own property in order to get a little more privacy.
Sessions said, Well, the masters of the universe are very fond of open borders as long as these open borders don t extend to their gated compounds and fenced-off estates.
On previous occasions, Ryan has repeatedly suggested that the American people are not entitled to discriminate against who enters their country on a visa.
When Sean Hannity asked Paul Ryan about whether or not he would support curbs to Muslim immigration, Paul Ryan declared, That s not who we are.
However, Ryan s fence ensures that no refugees will be able to enter his property without his permission even as U.S. communities are not able to make any such restrictions.In 2013, when Ryan traveled with Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL)to stump for Sen. Marco Rubio s (R-FL) immigration agenda, Ryan declared that America is more than our borders and that the U.S. ought to have an open door system where foreign nationals can come and go as they please.
America is more than just a country, Ryan said.
It s more than Chicago, or Wisconsin.
It s more than our borders.
America is an idea.
It s a very precious idea.
Ryan disparaged Americans who opposed large-scale immigration, characterizing that attitude as ignorant, declaring that throughout American history, Each wave [of immigration] is met with some ignorance, is met with some resistance.
Ryan said, We want to have a system where people can come here and work go back and forth if they want to so that we have an open door to the people who want to come and contribute to our country, who want to come and make a difference in their families lives, and our economy.
Via: Breitbart News