Despicable Congresswoman Federica Wilson isn t backing down and is just doubling down by saying that White House Chief of Staff John Kelly used a racist term to describe her.
She s digging a hole she won t be able to get out of.
Her shameful behavior is embarrassing.
She should be apologizing to General Kelly who is a Gold Star father who lost his son two years ago in Afghanistan.
Please see General Kelly s heartfelt statement below this video where he used the term, empty barrel to scribe Wilson s grandstanding during the dedication of a FBI field office in Texas.
She also claims he lied about this incident.
Yea, right do you believe Wilson or Kelly?
Without question, it would be WH Chief of Staff Kelly Democratic Rep. Wilson: "Empty barrel," used by WH Chief of Staff Kelly to describe her, is a "racist term" https://t.co/356W7kIDPJ New Day (@NewDay) October 20, 2017Frederica Wilson is a member of Congress but is behaving like a disrespectful child.
She listened in on a phone call that President Trump made to the Gold Star wife of a fallen Green Beret.
She then turned around and tried to make President Trump look heartless.
She responded to the dressing down by Chief of Staff Kelly by laughing it off talk about heartless!
Wilson: You mean to tell me that I have become so important that the White House is following me and my words?
This is amazing!
That s amazing!
That is absolutely phenomenal!
I ll have to tell my kids that I m a rock star now!
Rep. Frederica Wilson's reaction to that somber Kelly briefing via @wsvn https://t.co/zX5KTDLyoj pic.twitter.com/jQPkbLY5bn Alan He (@alanhe) October 19, 2017In case you missed the stunning words from Gen. Kelly today:White House Chief of Staff John Kelly says he was stunned to learn that Congresswoman Frederica Wilson listened in on the president s call to a fallen soldier s wife.
He came into the White House press briefing and let the press have it too.
He goes through the steps of what happens when someone in the military is killed.
He says that the members of our military are the best 1% of our population.
He said he was brokenhearted when he found out what a member of congress did.
This is a heartfelt moment that is amazing:KELLY DOES A GREAT JOB OF CUTTING THROUGH THE BS FROM THE PRESS:The retired general who lost his own son in Afghanistan said the call to Sgt.
La David T. Johnson s wife should have been sacred.
It stuns me that a member of congress would have listened in on that conversation.
Absolutely stuns me.
I thought at least that was sacred, he said.The White House official found himself at the center of a charge that President Barack Obama didn t make calls to the families of fallen soldiers this week after President Trump claimed that Obama didn t call Kelly when his son Robert died.Kelly said Thursday at a White House news conference that it s true but he wasn t offended.In fact, Kelly says he counseled Trump not to call Gold Star families and to instead write letters.Read more: Daily Mail