David Fry is a self-titled computer expert that has joined the Bundy occupation at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon.
He is also a huge fan of Adolf Hitler and supports ISIS.A post that Fry made to his Google+ account read as follows: ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS IS FOR ISIS TO NUKE ISRAELHELL!
Source: opb.orgWhen asked by OPB to explain why he supported ISIS and liked Hitler, he spoke about government conspiracies, plots against other nations, the September 11th attacks, the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan, and a Jewish conspiracy to destroy the world with nuclear meltdowns.One week before Fukushima happened, an Israeli security team installing security equipment was there at Fukushima.Source: opb.orgFry explained that he drove from Ohio to join the occupation because he felt the Bundy militia consisted of pretty good people.
It was (a) miracle, that I got here, Fry said.
I ve had quarrels with the government myself, and I feel there has to be some point where people have to put their foot down against the problems.Source: opb.orgFry is currently occupying his time using government computers to allegedly make a website for the Oregon occupation.
The website is defendyourbase.net, which has various videos of militants, but it also has videos from video games and other very non-freedom related items, some of them from months ago.Why would a website made for the militia, have videos from months ago of some dude playing video games?
It s a good question and I can offer one suggestion.Fry didn t make the website for the occupation.
The domain was created in February of 2015, practically an entire year ago.Domain Name: DEFENDYOURBASE.NET Registrar: REGISTER.COM, INC.
Sponsoring Registrar IANA ID: 9 Whois Server: whois.register.com Referral URL: [link removed] Name Server: NS1.X10HOSTING.COM Name Server: NS2.X10HOSTING.COM Status: clientTransferProhibited [link removed] Updated Date: 07-feb-2015 Creation Date: 07-feb-2015 Expiration Date: 07-feb-2016Source: INTERNICIn reality, this website appears to be something Fry made to display videos of himself playing video games.
Perhaps he retooled it a bit for the cause of liberty.
The name defendyourbase definitely sounds like the video game angle is plausible, since in many shooter games you and your team have a base to defend.Here is a video that Fry made of himself from a government computer within the wildlife refuge:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k37CFeTLzeA&w=420&h=315] The Bundy militia officially has a Nazi-sympathizing, ISIS-supporting, Israel-hating, conspiracy-obsessed individual who got his combat experience shooting virtual aliens with a laser rifle in their ranks.
It must make the Bundys feel a lot safer knowing he s on their side.featured image via video screen capture