The one thing John Oliver hasn t talked about on his show so far is Donald Trump, but that changed on Sunday night.The HBO host devoted nearly his entire program to ripping apart the Republican billionaire as if he had been biding his time waiting for the perfect moment to strike.
Our main story tonight and I can not believe I m saying this is Donald Trump, and I say that knowing that every time his name gets said out loud, he has a shattering orgasm, Oliver hilarious began.Like a small mole discovered on your back, Oliver continued, Trump has grown to the point where you have to start taking him seriously.Trump has not only won New Hampshire and South Carolina, he is now poised to win big on Super Tuesday, which could seal the nomination for him.But Oliver absolutely destroyed Trump and it became really obvious that he and his team did a lot of research in an effort to hit Trump as hard as possible.
Donald Trump can seem appealing until you take a closer look, Oliver said.
Much like the lunch buffet at a strip club.
Or the NFL.
Or having a pet chimpanzee.
Sure, it seems fun, but someday Coco is going to rip your f*cking limbs off.
Oliver took aim at Trump s net worth, which The Donald proudly claims is at least TEN BILLION DOLLARS.
However, Oliver noted that in reality Trump is worth a mere $150 to $250 million dollars.
Then it was time to take a closer look at Trump s claim that he is successful at everything he does, and even that doesn t hold water.
From Trump Vodka to Trump Steaks to Trump University, Donald Trump has repeatedly failed in multiple business ventures.
He s even incredibly thin-skinned, as Oliver discovered when he pointed out that Trump sends an occasional letter to Vanity Fair with a picture of his hand highlighting the length of his fingers after the magazine claimed that he has tiny, cocktail sausage fingers.
The in-depth mockery of Trump by Oliver was simply amazing over the full 21 minutes the segment lasted, which hilariously concluded with the comedian reaching back into Trump s family history to find out that Trump s real last name is Drumpf.
And that inspired Oliver to buy www.donaldjdrumpf.com to Make Donald Drumpf Again.Here s the video via YouTube:Oliver also summed up Trump s candidacy as a bullshit artist selling a shitty lifestyle to the American people.We may have had to wait a long time to see Oliver take on Trump, but it sure was worth the wait.Featured image via screenshot