President Trump addressed the America people today, as he outlined a new and bold national security strategy.
The American people are generous.
You are determined, you are brave, you are strong, and you are wise.
When the American people speak, all of us should listen.
And just over one year ago, you spoke loud and you spoke clear.
And On November 8th, 2016, you voted to Make America Great Again.
You embraced new leadership, and very new strategies, and also a glorious new hope, that is why we are here today.
But to seize the opportunities of the future, we must first understand the failures of the past.
America will pursue threats to their source, so that jihadist terrorists are stopped before they ever reach our borders.
Legal Insurrection reports- The White House has unveiled President Donald Trump s national security strategy.
It has four main points: Protect America, promote our prosperity, preserve peace through strength, and advance our influence.But one of the biggest points is the return of using jihadist and Sharia, language President Barack Obama s administration tried to avoid.From Fox News: The primary transnational threats Americans face are from jihadist terrorists and transnational criminal organizations, the document states, according to excerpts released ahead of the speech.A search of the document shows the word jihadist appears 24 times in the 68 page document.
Obama s 2015 national security strategy mentioned Islam twice.The document mentions that America will pursue threats to their source, so that jihadist terrorists are stopped before they ever reach our borders.
Trump listed the ways to do this: disrupt terror plots, take direct actions, eliminate terrorist safe havens, sever sources of strength, share responsibility, and combat radicalization & recruitment in communities.David Reaboi at Security Studies Group noted another massive change:Here is my favorite part of the National Security Strategy and it s MASSIVE Admin acknowledges Sharia is goal and driving force behind Islamist terror groups.
Obama effectively banned use of any of this terminology.
pic.twitter.com/2HVHhnVqjX David Reaboi (@davereaboi) December 18, 2017He is correct.
Back in January 2016, Homeland Security released a report that called for officials to stop using jihad and sharia.
The Washington Free Beacon reported at the time:Under the section on terminology, the report calls for rejecting use of an us versus them mentality by shunning Islamic language in Countering Violent Extremism programs, or CVE, the Obama administration s euphemism that seeks to avoid references to Islam.Under a section on recommended actions on terminology, the report says DHS should reject religiously-charged terminology and problematic positioning by using plain meaning American English.
Government agencies should employ American English instead of religious, legal and cultural terms like jihad, sharia, takfir or umma, states the June 2016 report by the Council s countering violent extremism subcommittee.
The DHS report stated that to avoid a confrontational us versus them stance in public efforts to counter Islamic radicalization, government programs should use the term American Muslim instead of Muslim American.
The Obama administration insisted on this even though ISIS made it NO secret that they wanted the world to live under Sharia law.
The terrorist group even formed an all female brigade to help enforce Sharia law through brutal and violent means.