First lady Melania Trump fired back Friday at a Massachusetts elementary school librarian who rejected her donation of Dr. Seuss books, claiming their illustrations are examples of racist propaganda.
Stephanie Grisham, director of communications for the first lady s office, said in a statement to Fox News that the response was unfortunate, and Mrs. Trump wanted to use her platform to help as many children as she can.
She has demonstrated this in both actions and words since her husband took office, and sending books to children across the country is but one example, she said.
To turn the gesture of sending young students some books into something divisive is unfortunate, but the First Lady remains committed to her efforts on behalf of children everywhere.
To celebrate National Read a Book Day, the first lady had sent out a collection of 10 Dr. Seuss books to one school in each state across the nation.
The titles included: The Cat in the Hat ; One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish ; Wacky Wednesday ; Green Eggs and Ham ; and Oh, the Places You ll Go!
She followed in the footsteps of her predecessor, Michelle Obama, who often read Dr. Seuss books to children.
Former first ladies Hillary Clinton and Barbara Bush also read to children at Dr. Seuss-themed educational events.Remember when Mooch read Seuss to a room full of kids at the White House?
Hmmm was Mooch promoting racism?
I wanted to send you a special gift.
Dr. Seuss s Oh, the Places You ll Go!
is a book my son and I have read over and over again, and one that we want to share with all of you, the first lady wrote in her letter to students.
Please also remember that you are the future of America and that you can accomplish anything you set your mind to.
But despite the gesture, Liz Phipps Soeiro, a librarian at a public school in Cambridge, wrote a letter to the first lady, which was then published on The Horn Book blog, notifying Mrs. Trump that her school would not be keeping the titles for their collection, explaining that her school didn t have a NEED for the books, due to her school and library s award-winning status.
FOX News100 Percent Fed Up Soeiro on Tuesday penned an editorial for the Horn Book s Family Reading blog explaining why her school did not need the donation.
My students have access to a school library with over nine thousand volumes and a librarian with a graduate degree in literary science, she wrote.
Multiple studies show that schools with professionally staffed libraries improve student performance, Soeiro added.Trump s package reportedly included such Seuss classics as Green Eggs and Ham, The Cat in the Hat and One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish.
Soeiro criticized Seuss for being the only author represented in Trump s donation, citing controversy over some of his illustrations.
You may not be aware of this, but Dr. Seuss is a bit of a clich , a tired and worn ambassador for children s literature, she told Trump.
Another fact that many people are unaware of is that Dr. Seuss s illustrations are steeped in racist propaganda, caricatures, and harmful stereotypes.
I work in a district that has plenty of resources, which contributes directly to excellence, Soeiro wrote.
My students have access to a school library with over nine thousand volumes and a librarian with a graduate degree in library science.
Soeiro went on to slam the White House and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos for not gifting the books to underfunded and underprivileged communities, which she suggested continue to be marginalized by DeVos policies.But Soeiro seemed to be the most offended by the books themselves.Another FACT that many people are unaware that the HYPOCRITICAL and smug liberal librarian was seen CELEBRATING Dr. Seuss only 2 years ago:Here's D.C. librarian who rejected Melania's Dr. Seuss book donation "steeped in racist propaganda" as Cat in Hat.
pic.twitter.com/pek3pT5q2W Clay Travis (@ClayTravis) September 29, 2017