Republicans talk a good game about their supporters being responsible gun owners.
As a matter of fact, to listen to them you d almost believe that every gun owner in America is super responsible, only concerned about protecting themselves and their family.
However, when you turn on the news it becomes very obvious that this isn t the case at all.
Actually, more often than not we hear stories that sound a little something like this one out of Texas.A 9-year-old girl who was wounded when a 9-mm gun her father was showing her discharged was in critical condition Friday in a Temple hospital.
The girl, whose name has not been released, was struck in the left shoulder in the shooting at around 9:30 p.m. Thursday One officer said authorities believe the shooting was accidental.Let me be clear: A gun does not just discharge.
Period.This ammosexual was showing off his gun to his 9-year-old daughter and he shot her because he is a f*cking idiot who does not know how to handle a gun.
He didn t look to make sure there was not a bullet in the chamber of this gun he thought was so awesome.The same people who say that all of their supporters are responsible also say that we want to take their guns away.
First of all, we don t but if we did could you blame us?
According to Every Town, a gun control advocacy group:From December 2012 to December 2013, at least 100 children were killed in unintentional shootings almost two each week, 61 percent higher than federal data reflect.
And even this larger number reflects just a fraction of the total number of children injured or killed with guns in the U.S. each year, regardless of the intent.That s an astronomical amount of kids and the right-wing thinks there isn t a problem in this country.
When hundreds of our kids are dying and thousands of adults are meeting the same fate in what is arguably the most powerful nation on earth, we clearly have an issue.
What s worse is that the vast majority of accidental shootings could be prevented if people, like this father, just used common sense and took a safety course.
Featured image from Whudat