Earlier today, Trump said to a crowd at MacDill Air Force Base that the very dishonest media wasn t reporting on the terror attacks that are happening all across Europe all the time.
Later on, the media pressed Sean Spicer on that topic while aboard Air Force One, and Spicer s response was to say that they d provide a list later on.
Well, that list is out, and surprise surprise, it s completely ridiculous.Since Trump s comments focused on Europe and, by extension, the U.S., the following lists are focused there, despite many, many other attacks happening around the world.Perhaps one of the most ridiculous things about the White House s list of attacks is that it includes high-profile attacks that were covered for days on end, such as the 2015 attack against Charlie Hebdo in Paris, and the fateful attack at a Paris club in November.
It also includes two foiled attacks that were also widely reported.
Broken down:They also list several attacks in France in 2016 that were covered extensively.Then they list an attack in London in December 2015 that was covered by CNN, Reuters, The Huffington Post, USA Today, and more.There s one in Copenhagen, Denmark in February of 2015 that was covered by CNN, The New York Times, USA Today, The Huffington Post, Reuters, and more.Most of us probably remember the March 2016 attack in Brussels, Belgium, which was covered by CNN, NPR, The New York Times, CBS News, NBC News, USA Today, ABC News, and more.But that s Europe.
What about the attacks they list here in the U.S. that supposedly weren t covered, or weren t covered extensively enough?
Like the following:Really?
So far we ve looked closely at 18 of the attacks listed, and they were all widely covered by U.S. media.
Trump and his minions insist that we re not covering attacks in Europe hardly at all, and then they provide a list with 30 attacks that are in the Middle East, parts of Asia, and in Indonesia and the Philippines.Those attacks are terrible and tragic, too, but again, Trump didn t say anything about us not covering attacks in those regions.
He probably didn t even think about those regions until whoever it was that compiled that list gave it to him (if they gave it to him).But the biggest falsehood is that the media isn t reporting, or is underreporting, on these attacks.
It s like they hurriedly compiled a list of terror attacks worldwide from Wikipedia and couldn t be bothered to proofread, let alone research.
There are spelling errors in addition to the lie that the media covers up attacks.
Our dishonest president, has a lot of nerve accusing the media of actively covering up terrorist attacks.The full list, as provided to CNN, is below.
Feel free to Google whatever you want:Here s the list the White House sent of attacks they feel did not receive adequate attention from Western media sources.
pic.twitter.com/lj8eOZQfnY Kevin Liptak (@Kevinliptakcnn) February 7, 2017Read more:Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images