It s been more than a week since the election of Donald Trump and his supporters have been teaching us a big lesson namely that they re really bad winners and that their sense of entitlement to nearly everything just escalated because their orange candidate won a few more swing states.At a Starbucks near the University of Miami, a man who thought his coffee was taking just a little too long went on a racist rant that shows exactly the type of attitude of entitlement that Trump supporters are sporting now.
Fortunately, it was all caught on video by another Starbucks customer, Jorge de C rdenas.The Starbucks was crowded, as many are at any given point during any given day.
The white Trump (complete with Trump-like hair and a tall, leggy blonde companion who would surely win the approval of the President Elect) voter, though, thought he deserved to get his coffee faster than the others, and if he didn t, it had to be because Starbucks employees, some of whom happen to have dark skin, hate white people.The man was, by his standards, anyway, waiting too long in line, so he started screaming Trump!
at an African-American employee.
Then he claimed that there was anti-white discrimination and that s why he was waiting.He said it was anti-white discrimination,' C rdenas says, so he started disparaging the staff.
One patron called him an asshole, so he said, Fuck you, bitch.
That s when I started filming.
C rdenas whipped out his phone to take a video just as the man called the black employee trash, demanded his money back, and started shouting, I voted for Trump!
Trump!
You lost, now give me my money back, at the staff:Here s the video:#trump supporter in #miami @Starbucks attacks & threatens patrons & staff bc coffee took too long, blames anti-white discrimination pic.twitter.com/HRj9EahrMy jorge de c rdenas (@Jbdcl) November 16, 2016If you think this is an isolated incident, just Google Trump supporter and you will find dozens of examples of the so-called winners behaving very badly toward People of Color, toward LGBT people, toward Jewish people and toward Muslims.
Trump, unfortunately, has uncovered the ugly underbelly of angry white people.
They aren t angry because they are economic victims.
They are angry because they are white and increasingly, their neighbors aren t.Featured images via video screen capture.