With new revelations of Trump aides making undisclosed contacts with Russia screaming across headlines today amid the mountain of scandals facing the alleged president, the 70-year-old Twitter addicted man-baby took to his social media account Thursday morning.
To Donald Trump, he s the real victim as he assaults the English language with yet another typo.
With all of the illegal acts that took place in the Clinton campaign & Obama Administration, there was never a special councel appointed!
Trump tweeted.With all of the illegal acts that took place in the Clinton campaign & Obama Administration, there was never a special councel appointed!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 18, 2017Trump was responding to the appointment of a special counsel (not councel) to investigate the alleged ties between his campaign and Russia.
This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 18, 2017However, after the announcement of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel, Trump stated that a federal investigation into his campaign s ties to Russia would find that there was no collusion.
As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will confirm what we already know there was no collusion between my campaign and any foreign entity, he stated.
I look forward to this matter concluding quickly.
In the meantime, I will never stop fighting for the people and the issues that matter most to the future of our country.
Trump is obviously very worried this morning as the walls close in around him.Former national security adviser Michael Flynn, as well as other advisers to Trump s campaign, were in contact with Russian officials and others with Kremlin ties in at least 18 calls and emails during the last seven months of the 2016 presidential race, current and former U.S. officials familiar with the exchanges told Reuters.All eighteen contacts with Russian officials were undisclosed.
And, wow, the report states they were in contact via email, too.
We re pretty sure that Hillary Clinton knows what being a target of a witch hunt over emails feels like.
Trump made sure of that during the campaign as his supporters chanted, Lock her up!
The contacts with Russia will now be part of the record which is being reviewed by FBI and congressional investigators probing Russia s meddling in 2016 election and contacts between Trump s campaign and Russia.Flynn and Sergei Kislyak s conversations accelerated after election day.
The two reportedly discussed establishing a back channel for communication between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin that could bypass the U.S. national security bureaucracy.Previously, the White House denied any contact with Russian officials, but that was in January.
I mean, who wouldn t forget about EIGHTEEN conversations with Russian officials to discuss creating a back channel to secretly communicate?
And there s more.
It s also been revealed that the amateur president knew Flynn was under investigation before his inauguration but appointed him anyway.In fairness to Trump, he does know something about witch hunts.An 'extremely credible source' has called my office and told me that @BarackObama's birth certificate is a fraud.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 6, 2012Meanwhile, everyone at the White House is MIA.
Even Kellyanne Conway canceled an interview at the last minute with Fox News.
Trump has no one left to defend him except for his Twitter account, and if I was his lawyer, I d be sitting on his hands, screaming, Stop tweeting, you moron!
Photo by David Becker via Getty Images.