Joe Scarborough, host of MSNBC s Morning Joe, definitely seems to be in the #NeverTrump camp these days, despite being a lifelong Republican and former GOP member of Congress.
He and co-host Mika Brzezinski slayed Trump again Tuesday morning, this time for Trump s racist attacks against Senator Elizabeth Warren s Native American heritage.Trump s go-to insult for Senator Warren is to call her Pocahontas, which is generally seen as a slur when used in this context.
This time, though, Trump and his crazy team have gone way too far.
He has even had Scott Brown, who lost his place in the Senate to Warren, go so far as to demand a DNA test to prove Warren is indeed part Native American.Well, Morning Joe was having none of it.
Scarborough slammed the attacks, saying: This is when you know you re losing a debate.
When your opponent is talking about working class Americans, and fighting hard to bring working class Americans back into the mainstream of American economic life, and you are talking about whether someone is 1/32 Native American and suggesting DNA testing.
He continued: What the hell s wrong with them are they stupid?
Are they stupid?
Brzezinski then pointed out that Trump s campaign has been promising to stop it with the buffoonery, to actually have a candidate behave like, you know, someone who is dignified enough to be president, but there are no signs that this is actually happening at this point.
She said: They say they re going to turn the page and pivot toward the general election and have a more elegant but, you know, you can t if your candidate is releasing ridiculous, cartoon-like, kindergarten-like statements.
Scarborough agreed, saying: If you re going to turn the page, you turn the page and they re trying to turn the page, especially on the Muslim ban.
But you can t keep turning back.
Turn the page, and then keep moving forward.
That s the discipline they ve got to be disciplined up and down the line.
This Pocahontas nonsense, this goofy nonsense, they ve got to stop it doesn t work.
It makes them look small in the general election.
The thing is, though, this is who Trump is.
He s 70 years old.
He isn t going to change.
You can t have a campaign the exudes presidential behavior when the man at the helm of the whole thing is a racist, misogynist, xenophobic, homophobic cartoon character with bad hair and a thin-skinned, childish temperament.
Give it up GOP.
Time to hop off the Trump Train.
Trump and the entire Republican Party have become a national embarrassment in the wake of his rise.
It s time to shut it down.Watch the video below, via Raw Story:Trump calls Warren Pocahontas @JoeNBC: If you re going to turn the page, you can t keep turning back https://t.co/TIzb0LtvG5 Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) June 28, 2016Featured image via video screen capture