Fox News and other right-wing outlets are quivering with glee at the fact that a known Ku Klux Klan leader is endorsing Hillary Clinton.
What they AREN T reporting though is this: the guy is actually a Trump supporter.
This endorsement is really just an effort to paint Clinton as a racist and damage her brand and her campaign with the dark stain of open and obvious racist terrorism that is the KKK.The outrageous reason for California KKK Grand Dragon Will Quigg to endorse the Democratic frontrunner?
He thinks Hillary is a secret racist even to the point of being in line with the KKK s views.
Quigg told the Telegraph of his Clinton endorsement : She is telling everybody one thing, but she has a hidden agenda.
She s telling everybody what they want to hear so she can get elected, because she s Bill Clinton s wife, she s close to the Bushes.
Once she s in the presidency, she s going to come out and her true colors are going to show.
Border policies are going to be put in place.
Our Second Amendment rights that she s saying she s against now, she s not against.
She s just our choice for the presidency.
So, in other words, this dude is trying to make people think that Hillary Clinton is a racist, immigrant-hating gun nut.
Yeah, good luck with that Mr. Quigg.
The thing is, though, Quigg s own words show that he isn t truly endorsing Hillary Clinton.
In fact, here are his pro-Trump, pro- white power tweets that prove it:@realDonaldTrump You Sir are the only hope we have of getting WHITE AMERICA BACK!
WE all will be voting for you!
CHURCH OF INVISABLE EMPIRE Wm.
Quigg (@GrandDragonCa) September 17, 2015@JohnKerry @StateDept Forget Kerry, America needs Donald Trump if we're ever going to get this Country BACK!!!
Wm.
Quigg (@GrandDragonCa) September 16, 2015This guys is clearly lying about his Clinton support.
He s a Trump supporter through and through, and his reason for that is the fact that most of Trump s racist talking points are straight from the terrifying playbook of one of the world s most infamous and dangerous dictators, Adolf Hitler.
This is nothing more than an effort to smear Clinton and make Black voters think twice about following her.Don t fall for this one folks.
This guy is a dangerous racist who supports Donald Trump.Featured image via Wikimedia Commons