Republican front runner Donald Trump has revealed a truly insidious First Day in the White House.
His number 1 priority?
Removing Gun-Free Zones from schools.To much of the world, schools being gun-free is standard.
The entire developed world has achieved consensus on the simple logic that deadly weapons and children don t mix.
It seems only the Republican Party of the United States and their followers reject this logic.
As a result, the U.S. leads the developed world in deaths by gun per capita and school shootings, by a distance which is as horrifying as it is embarrassing.As we can see from the data compiled by Quartz, the United States suffered almost the same number of mass killings in schools between 2000 and 2010 than 36 other nations combined.
This figure becomes yet more astonishing when they point out the fact that:In 2010, the US was home to a population of approximately 309 million.
The populations of these other countries totaled 3.8 billion.Yet, speaking to an audience in Burlington, Vermont on Thursday night Trump announced: I will get rid of gun-free zones on schools you have to and on military bases on my first day.
It gets signed my first day, You know what a gun-free zone is to a sicko?
he asked.
That s bait.
Trump timed the announcement to coincide with the President s Town Hall meeting on gun violence, which was airing on CNN.
President Obama, having been consistently thwarted in his efforts at bipartisan cooperation on gun control, will now use executive powers to implement a raft of measures to protect American citizens from out-of-control gun violence.Donald Trump and the Republican Party just failed a very big test.
Given the choice to operate with political courage in the interests of the American people, or with political opportunism in the interests of themselves and their donors, Trump and the GOP picked the latter.
In doing so, they put American lives in peril, and proved themselves unworthy of a place in the White House.Featured Image via Flickr