Donald Trump s new strategy to spin away from the sexual assault avalanche that is burying him apparently includes accusing Hillary Clinton of sexual assault.Because that s exactly what Trump minion Gina Loudon did during an appearance on CNN with Don Lemon on Monday night.Loudon and fellow Trump minion Betsey McCaughey tried to steer the discussion from Trump s sexual assault comments to claims of mass election fraud, which Trump has repeatedly tried to convince everyone is a thing that actually happens even though it is incredibly rare in our country.At that point, panelist Bakari Sellers had had enough and shut both women down to return the discussion to the topic at hand.
This is absurd, Sellers said.
Bless your heart, both of you, this is patently absurd.
You talked about the fact that Donald Trump somehow had allegations that were unproven.
No.
Melania Trump was on camera today, trying to deal with his own comments coming out of his mouth.
We weren t even at the allegations.
We were at the point that he said he likes to sexually abuse people.
You cannot be serious, Loudon exclaimed.
But Sellers refused to back down.
That s sexual assault, is it not?
he asked.Indeed, Trump bragged about groping women against their will back in 2005 while on a hot mic while on Access Hollywood.
Groping women against their will is the exact definition of sexual assault.
But Loudon has a totally different definition and she openly stated it on national television when she openly accused Hillary Clinton of sexually assaulting Bill Clinton s accusers.
Words are not sexual assault, she claimed.
What is sexual assault is what Hillary Clinton did to the women her husband absolutely, factually assaulted.
Wow.
Donald Trump s supporters literally just sunk to a new low in their desperate effort to paint Hillary as worse than the Republican nominee.Lemon and Sellers were stunned by the ridiculous accusation and former Philadelphia mayor Michael Nutter told the two women that they are embarrassing themselves.Loudon insisted that Hillary paid $100,000 to a private investigator to dig up bad stuff on these women, but when Lemon and Nutter told her there was no evidence of her claims, the best Loudon could offer is that there is an alleged tape and that she has heard it.
In other words, hearsay, which is not evidence.Nutter went on to slam Donald Trump as a liar and he actually listed off many of the things Trump has lied about, and unlike Loudon s claim, there is evidence to back him up.Here s the video via VidMe.Donald Trump has no business being a candidate for the presidency and his supporters should not be allowed on national media programs.
All they have done is lie throughout this campaign and accusing Hillary of sexual assault should be the last time Gina Loudon is ever invited back on CNN or any other news outlet.Featured image via screenshot