In February, Boston-based entrepreneur and inventor of Email V.A.
Shiva Ayyadurai announced his candidacy for the US Senate seat currently occupied by radical leftist Elizabeth Warren.Today, ShivaRatri, when Light overcame Darkness, we launched my campaign for US SENATE against @SenWarren.
Defend the American Dream!
Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) February 25, 2017Ayyadurai is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and is best known for his claim to have invented email.Ayyadurai is not afraid to take the fight to the very dishonest Democrat Senator Elizabeth Warren.
Yesterday, he tweeted evidence of a DNA kit he sent to Senator Warren for her birthday that was promptly returned.
The DNA kit was a clear jab at Warren after she lied about her Indian heritage as a way to jump ahead of other applicants for a teaching position at the prestigious Harvard University.I'm deeply saddened @SenWarren refused my thoughtful (gift-wrapped) Birthday Gift: the 23&me DNA Test Kit.
Most unfortunate!
#FakeIndian pic.twitter.com/BI7F20wDW8 Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) July 2, 2017Elizabeth Warren was listed as the Harvard Law s first woman of color in 1997 law review piece on diversity and affirmative action!Elizabeth Warren pushed back hard on questions about a Harvard Crimson piece in 1996 that described her as Native American, saying she had no idea the school where she taught law was billing her that way and saying it never came up during her hiring a year earlier, which others have backed up.But a 1997 Fordham Law Review piece described her as Harvard Law School s first woman of color, based, according to the notes at the bottom of the story, on a telephone interview with Michael Chmura, News Director, Harvard Law (Aug. 6, 1996).
GPDr.
V.A.
Shiva Ayyadurai has a pretty impressive resume:He s the inventor of email and polymath, holds four degrees from MIT, is a world-renowned systems scientist, inventor and entrepreneur.His love of medicine and complex systems began in India when he became intrigued with medicine at the age of five as he observed his grandmother, a farmer and healer in the small village of Muhavur in South India, apply Siddha, India s oldest system of traditional medicine, to heal and support local villagers.
These early experiences inspired him to pursue the study of modern systems science, information technology and eastern and traditional systems of medicine to develop an integrative framework linking eastern and western systems of medicine.