Despite his promises to drain the swamp, Trump is doing the exact opposite.
So far, his cabinet picks are basically a who s who of Washington insiders and big business executives, making the swamp slimier than ever.And the Democratic Party isn t missing the opportunity to highlight Trump s incompetence and hypocrisy.In a 30-second video released on Twitter, the Democrats lambasted Trump for hiring the very idiots who caused the financial crisis to undo all of the hard work done by the Obama administration to pull this country back from the brink of financial ruin.You can watch the video below: We ve seen so much economic growth over the last 6 years.
Now Donald Trump is hiring the people who created the crisis we recovered from.
pic.twitter.com/F7nQqDCmUM The Democrats (@TheDemocrats) December 3, 2016Although the list is always changing (you can see a live updated version by The New York Times here), here s a quick rundown of his current appointments and their anything-but outsider backgrounds:Steve Bannon is a white supremacist and nationalist, and architect of Breitbart, which he has called a platform of the alt-right.
Alt-right is the politically correct word for neo-Nazis that can t stand being called neo-Nazis.
He was also an investment banker at Goldman-Sachs, and ran his own financial firm, Bannon & Co.Reince Priebus, who was chairman to the RNC and instrumental in the rise of Paul Ryan, Scott Walker, and others, is about as establishment as you can get.
He s a lawyer and career politician, and was the chairman of one of two major political parties.
What is more establishment than that?!
Yet, for his early promotion of the Donald, he s getting rewarded with a spot in the White House.
Trump doesn t give a damn about draining the swamp; he s giving favors to friends.Flynn isn t as bad as Trump s other picks at first glance, that is.
He seems to have no clue what he s talking about with regard to many political issues, but on the subject of national security, he does at least have some expertise.
Unfortunately, that expertise is tempered with a let s bomb the shit out of everything!
attitude combined with extreme Islamophobia.
Lovely.
He s also been reported to have a loose relationship with the truth.
A leaked email from former Secretary of State and four-star general Colin Powell is even more telling: I spoke at DIA last month, Powell wrote to his son, Michael, on July 19 before relaying a story he apparently heard from Marine Lt. Gen. Vincent Stewart, the current DIA director.
Flynn got fired as head of DIA.
His replacement is a black Marine 3-star.
I asked why Flynn got fired.
Abusive with staff, didn t listen, worked against policy, bad management, etc.
He has been and was right-wing nutty every [sic] since.
(The Washington Post)Come on, Trump, you can t do better than that?
Who am I kidding of course you can t.None of those require Senate confirmation, so they re already a done deal.
The following names, however, are not yet set in stone, but are likely:I won t get into the many, many terrible policy positions of Jeff Sessions.
That s not important here.
What is important is that he is another career politician who is owned by the insurance industry and has no interest in fighting for the common citizen.
He s yet another swamp monster in an administration that won an election on the promise of changing business as usual in Washington.It s hard to know where to start with Betsy DeVos.
Her desire to privatize education, not improve it?
Her belief in creationism?
The fact that she thinks Christianity belongs in public schools?
Or maybe just that she s another billionaire swamp monster?
She married into Amway money.
Amway, if you re not familiar, is a massive pyramid scheme under investigation in many countries for its multi-level marketing scam ( multi-level marketing is code for pyramid scam ).
It s one of the largest privately held companies in the United States.
And she is a HUGE political donor who is very fond of money influencing the political process.You know who would make the best Secretary of the Treasury when you re trying to get rid of business as usual in Washington?
A billionaire investment banker and hedge fund manager who spent 17 years at Goldman-Sachs, that s who!
Here s a flashback to Trump just months ago: I m not going to let Wall Street get away with murder.
Wall Street has caused tremendous problems for us.
We re going to tax Wall Street.
Huh.
How about that.Steven Mnuchin been sued by Trump, partnered with George Soros, and has done basically anything he can to make as much money as possible.
It s hard to see how liberals or conservatives would support him, but Trump supporters will follow him no matter what he does or how many promises he breaks.And in case you forgot, people like Mnuchin caused the Great Recession.
Now we ve gone from not regulating them enough and allowing them to buy politicians to directly placing them in power!
That s some great swamp draining right there.Wilbur Ross is a predatory billionaire investor and former banker.
Is this starting to sound repetitive?
He also served under Rudy Giuliani, as well as Bill Clinton, and has been both a Democrat and a Republican as the need arises.
Not exactly a political outsider!And heads up, coal miners: He s currently under investigation by multiple agencies for his degree of responsibility in the deaths of a dozen coal miners in West Virginia.
The mine that collapsed had over 200 safety citations, and he was intimately familiar with the company and problems in question during the time leading up to the incident.
Do you think Trump really gives a flying fuck about you when he s hiring people like that?Elaine Chao has served under two previous Republican administrations already, as well as obtaining a White House fellowship under Reagan.
She was the Secretary of Labor under Dubya, and the Deputy Secretary of Transportation under his marginally more competent father, President George H.W.
Bush.She s also Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell s wife.
Not only that, but she s worked at multiple banks as well as the Heritage Foundation.
She is as deeply embedded in the world of politics and the swamp of Washington as it is possible to be.With this list of Washington insiders and bank executives on their way onto the White House team, it s more clear than ever that everything Trump told his supporters during his campaign was a lie.
He s in it for himself, his children, and his rich friends.
After that, he ll listen to anybody that pretends they like him or tells him what he wants to hear.
Sad!Featured image via screen capture from embedded video