Just remember this the next time we need help from our allies and they tell us to go f*ck ourselves.Donald Trump has been on a whirlwind foreign trip in which he has been embarrassing the red, white, and blue in every nation he has visited.First, he bowed like a princess before the Saudi king and even went full hypocrite by refusing to say radical Islam during his speech there.Then he went to Israel and confirmed that the Israelis were the source of the highly classified intelligence he leaked to the Russians.On Thursday, Trump delivered a speech in front of NATO leaders and insulted our allies.The whiny temper tantrum was all about Trump s complaint that some NATO nations have not paid enough for their own defense.
I have been very, very direct with Secretary Stoltenberg and members of the alliance in saying that NATO members must finally contribute their fair share and meet their financial obligations.
But 23 of the 28 member nations are still not paying what they should be paying and what they re supposed to be paying for their defense.
This is not fair to the people and taxpayers of the United States, and many of these nations owe massive amounts of money from past years and not paying in those past years.
Trump s speech may have gone down well with his conservative supporters in Redneckistan USA, but our allies were sure as hell pissed off.
The looks on their faces as Trump bitched about them spoke volumes.Here s the video via YouTube:This was supposed to be a speech to unite Europe and the United States against terrorism.
But what Trump did is divisive and totally counterproductive.
It s also hypocritical considering how much money the United States owes to other nations.
And, that s not how NATO works.Angering our allies won t help us win the war against terrorism.
If anything, it only lets terrorists know that they are succeeding.Furthermore, while Trump was busy humiliating himself and our country, he failed to throw his support behind Article 5, a crucial part of the military alliance with the other NATO members that says all members will come to defense of any NATO member that comes under attack.
In other words, if Russia attacked France tomorrow every NATO nation would be obligated to come to France s defense.
But apparently, Trump didn t want to do anything to make Vladimir Putin angry.
Trump s silence on Article 5 suggests that he would not come to the defense of any of our allies if they were to be attacked.Once again, Trump proves to be an embarrassment who has turned America into a laughingstock around the globe.Featured Image: Screenshot