Many people have looked to Donald Trump s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, to be a moderating influence on the erratic behavior of his father-in-law.
This is largely true, but there s just one problem: From sundown on Friday until sundown on Saturday, Kushner observes Shabat, as he and his wife and children are Orthodox Jews.
That means that Trump is left unattended with people like Chief Strategist Stephen K. Bannon and political operative Stephen Miller influencing his every move and appealing to his worst instincts.This seems to be the reason that some of Trump s biggest, most controversial and bumbling moves have happened on weekends because these are things far-right extremists like Bannon and Miller are all for, while Kushner never would have allowed them to happen if he could help it.
According to a source close to the situation, the timing of these blunders is no coincidence.
Here are just a few items that have occurred in Kushner s absence:And of course, we re less than two weeks into the Trump presidency, so who the hell knows what is coming next?
Well, it seems that Kushner is not happy with any of these developments at all.
He is reportedly increasingly uneasy at the influence of far-right extremists like Miller and Bannon on Trump in his absence.
Further, it seems that there is an intense power struggle within the White House, and Kushner seems to be losing.
He is incensed at that development as well.
He spent copious amounts of time setting up a call between Trump and Mexico s president, only to have Trump blow the whole thing up by impulsively tweeting that he should not meet with President Enrique Pena Nieto if there would be no wall payment.
According to Vanity Fair, Kushner was, quote, fucking furious.
In short, Trump is taking his marching orders from Bannon and Miller, and not Kushner, and that isn t good for anyone.
Kushner might be a rich, slimy sell-out, but at least he seems to be able to control Trump s worst instincts.
Now that said control seems to be badly slipping, we should all be very afraid.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images