Scott Walker emerged from the ashes of his failed Presidential campaign this week when the primaries came to Wisonsin.
But MSBNC host Chris Hayes gave him a further headache, by managing to destroy Walker s biggest lie, in just 16 brutal seconds.Walker is trying to pass tough voter ID laws which are likely to effectively disenfranchise the members of the community least likely to vote Republican, all in the name of preventing a voter fraud problem which doesn t actually exist.
Walker tried the argument on MSNBC host Chris Hayes this week, and got destroyed.
Alright, let s look at the facts, Hayes said.
There s the fact that despite dire warnings of voter fraud, a Wisconsin federal district judge ruled that the law s defenders and I m quoting could not point to a single instance of known voter impersonation occurring in Wisconsin at any time in the recent past.
The ruling took just 16 seconds to recite, but if the law passes regardless, more than 300,000 people (largely people of color, and people in poverty) will be unable to vote in the primaries.
It is the continuation of the GOP s plans to effectively rig the vote, by disenfranchising people least likely to vote for them.Minority and poor communities are already hit by felony disenfranchisement as the Sentencing Project reports:Nationally, an estimated 5.85 million Americans are denied the right to vote because of laws that prohibit voting by people with felony convictions.
Felony disenfranchisement is an obstacle to participation in democratic life which is exacerbated by racial disparities in the criminal justice system, resulting in 1 of every 13 African Americans unable to vote.Image via The Sentencing ProjectThe no-nonsense crushing shines a light on just how far the conservative media is failing its readers and viewers, by failing to do the most basic factcheck on these issues.
Whether conservative or liberal, we deserve a media which holds politicians and lawmakers to account when they lie.
Instead, we see the media playing partisan if our friends said it it s true, it our enemies said it, it s a lie.
The American public deserve better.Here s the video:Featured image via Flickr Creative Commons/Screengrab