September 11, 2001, was not only the day of the biggest terrorist attack to hit American soil, it was also a test of politicians, especially in the Bush administration and those serving New York.
Hillary Clinton was New York s Junior Senator at the time and in a newly uncovered video, she became livid at the Bush administration s lies, particularly about air quality after the attacks.First, a little background.
The attacks of 9/11 had devastating affects for the country.
It, after all, was the catalyst for two of the longest wars in America s history.
Nearly 3,000 people died as a direct result of the planes hitting the Twin Towers, but as of last year, nearly 21,000 people have filed eligibility reports claiming they became sick in the aftermath.Some of the victims weren t even in New York at the time of the attacks, but they felt a need to help, so they traveled to New York.
It s understandable if those people felt it was safe.
After all, the Bush administration told us it was.A week after two hijacked passenger jets were flown into the towers of the World Trade Center, killing 2,753 people 184 died in the Pentagon in Washington DC and 40 were killed when a United Airlines plane came down in a field in Pennsylvania (former Bush Environmental Protection Agency head, Christine Todd) Whitman issued a statement.
It said: I am glad to reassure the people of New York that their air is safe to breathe and their water is safe to drink.
Three days after the attacks, Whitman, who had previously been the Republican governor of New Jersey, told reporters: The good news continues to be that air samples we have taken have all been at levels that cause us no concern.
Source: The GuardianWhitman hasn t exactly acknowledged that she lied to the American people, but she has admitted that she s very sorry.
I m very sorry that people are sick, she said.
I m very sorry that people are dying and if the EPA and I in any way contributed to that, I m sorry.
We did the very best we could at the time with the knowledge we had.
She added: Every time it comes around to the anniversary I cringe, because I know people will bring up my name, they blame me, they say that I lied and that people died because I lied, [they say] people have died because I made a mistake.
I guess that s better than most members of the least introspective presidential administration in modern history.Hillary Clinton saw through it and she was livid, but as CNN s guest, Edward Pilkington of The Guardian, in the video below commented, she was also very well educated on the topic.
He called her a sponge for information.
Here s the video:We know that Hillary Clinton is incredibly smart, that she does like to immerse herself in knowledge and in research, but this video shows her as incredibly passionate when it comes to her constituents, and isn t that we want in our leaders?Featured image via video screen capture.