In a disturbing twist to an already-terrifying story, the man believed to be behind the spree killing in Kalamazoo, Michigan is reportedly an Uber driver who continued to pick up fares between his murder rampage.The suspect, identified as Jason Dalton by police, went on a shooting spree at several different locations that left six people dead and another two injured.
An 8-year-old child is said to be one of the victims.
A 16-year-old continues to fight for her life in a local hospital.
The Kalamazoo County Undersheriff told reporters that so far there is no known motive, just a guy with a gun who spent the night murdering innocent people.
In summary, what it looks like is we have somebody just driving around, finding people and shooting them dead in their tracks.
But perhaps there was a warning sign, and police may have missed it.In a Facebook post reportedly created just an hour before news of shootings began to fly in, a Kalamazoo woman wrote a lengthy complaint about an Uber driver named Jason who was acting aggressively, driving erratically, and appeared to be either on drugs or mentally unstable.
The post has since been deleted but it was captured by several news outlets.Police and state prosecutors now say they are looking into the post.UPDATE: Prosecutors confirm they are looking into whether this Facebook post is indeed about the Kalamazoo shooter.
pic.twitter.com/kS8K7vrYk9 Luke Stier (@LukeStier) February 21, 2016In the message, the woman says her fiance got into an Uber with the man and was instantly terrified by his behavior.
He was driving VERY erratically.
They sideswiped a car blowing through a stop sign at Henderson castle and West Main Hill, and the driver continued driving.
Then this man proceeded to drive 80mph down west main swerving in and out of oncoming traffic.She went on to say that she called 911, but the operator didn t seem all that concerned.
Uber later confirmed that Jason Dalton did indeed work for their company and that he had passed their background check.Statement from Uber after police confirmed to @woodtv that #KalamazooShooting suspect Jason Dalton was Uber driver.
pic.twitter.com/97b3mSclPF Danny Hopkins (@danny_hopkins) February 21, 2016Dalton has been arrested and a gun has been recovered from his vehicle.
So far police have no motive for what drove him to kill seemingly at random.In a sick coincidence , Michigan s Republican-led legislature is currently pushing to drop the requirement that Michigan gun owners get concealed carry permits and take a safety course in responsible gun use saying those burdens are an example of government overreach.
If only the victims of gun violence would get that level of sympathy from their lawmakers.Featured image via WOODTV8