Target stores are living up to their name by being the literal target of anti-LGBT, transphobic bigots and professionally-offended Christians, who are now showing up at their locations across the country.
Their intent, it seems, is to frighten patrons into being afraid to use the bathroom.
Walking up and down the aisles, and wearing shirts depicting stick figures having sex, they shout and scream about how God is the new judge of retail merchandise as they try to convince people the women s restrooms are loaded with perverts.Below are some videos taken in target stores, showing the preachers rebuking people for going to the bathroom.
Target this is your wake up call.
The Bible says that from the beginning God made them male and female.
He didn t make them transvestites.
He made them male and female Target, this is your warning.
You will be judged according to God s standards.
Not man s, but God s You need to repent You will be judged.
And if there are Christians in here, supporting this abomination, shame on you!
But you justify this place.
You have to stand by the bathrooms because perverts can go in there.
Because transvestites allowed.
Apparently, God can create a universe in 6 days but can t deal with the idea of someone peeing in a bathroom in a department store.One of these God Warriors, Michael Merichko, was charged with disorderly conduct following a disturbance inside a Target store in Illinois.
His obnoxiousness, coupled with the fact he was an unhinged white guy, convinced an entire shopping mall to go on lockdown because they thought he was an active shooter.via towleroadLuckily he was not, but frankly it isn t a stretch to think that some unhinged individual will eventually walk into a Target store and start shooting because God told them it was a good idea.Below is another religious idiot in St. Louis who is too obsessed with the idea of people peeing for his own good.Part 1: Part 2: The Republican party can be thanked for this.
If it wasn t for people like Ted Cruz using religion as a justification for hatred, Target would never have had to make a bathroom policy.
Transgender people have been using public restrooms forever without God destroying the planet as a result.
It took Republicans to make it a sudden problem for him.Featured image via video screen capture