Kayleigh McEneny wanted an answer and she got one that compelled her to finally stop talking.President Obama and the Democrats along with a few Republicans are taking Russian interference in our political process seriously while Donald Trump continues to defend his buddy Vladimir Putin.In fact, President Obama informed NPR that he intends to retaliate to make Russia pay for their espionage even if Trump himself is never punished for encouraging the espionage and taking advantage of it in the first place.
I think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take action and we will, President Obama said.
At a time and place of our own choosing.
Some of it may be explicit and publicized; some of it may not be.
But Mr. Putin is well aware of my feelings about this, because I spoke to him directly about it.
Anderson Cooper pointed out the President Obama only has one month left in office but Van Jones explained that he s still the president.
He went on to explain that Russia is a direct threat to our European allies and that we created NATO for that very reason.Of course, Kayleigh McEnany whined and claimed that President Obama and Hillary Clinton have worked with Russia in the past and demanded to know why they did so if Russia is such a threat.That s when Van Jones crushed McEnany into silence.
There was a time when the bigger threat was from Iran and the concern that Iran was going to get nuclear weapons, Jones replied.
So Hillary Clinton, in her brilliance, was able to pull together both the Chinese, not our friends every day, and the Russians, not our friends any day, in an alliance to deal with Iran.
You have to pick.
You have to have sequences.
And then Jones delivered the knockout blow by comparing how President Obama and Hillary Clinton have worked with Russia to how Donald Trump has invited Russia to attack us.
At no point do I believe that we said, Well, geez, we re going to now say that you can attack our country.
At no point did the United States tell Russia, you can hack our infrastructure, you can mess with our elections, and that s okay, too.
McEnany could only sit in silence knowing that she got schooled.Here s the video via YouTube:Obama and Clinton worked with Russia when it was necessary and beneficial to both nations and the world.
But when it came down to it, both were tough on Russia on issues of human rights and Russian aggression towards Europe, which is why sanctions were slapped against Russia after they invaded Ukraine and seized the Crimea.
Donald Trump not only asked Russia to keep hacking our infrastructure, he intends to drop the sanctions against them as a reward for helping him get elected and has expressed his intention to weaken NATO, which would just invite further Russian aggression without challenge from the United States.Donald Trump is a threat to national security and world peace and once President Obama leaves office people who foolishly voted for Trump are going to wish they had him back.Featured image via screenshot