One of the Bundy militiamen has lost his sole source of income thanks to his decision to join the merry mob of marauding morons in their armed occupation of the Malheur Wildlife Refuge in Oregon.
Was he skipping work?
Nah he would have to have a job for that.
Robert LaVoy Finicum tells Oregon Public Broadcasting that he lost his meal ticket children.Over the past decade, Finicum and his wife s home has served as nothing more than a revolving door for foster children, with more than 50 kids coming through their home.
The children, who often came from mental hospitals, drug rehabs, and group homes for emotionally distressed youth not only provided the happy couple with a steady income thanks to money they received from the state, but also with workers on his ranch (which barely makes enough money to stay afloat).
My ranch has been a great tool for these boys, Finicum said.
It has done a lot of good.
Unfortunately, when Finicum ran off to play terrorist with his friends and he left four young, emotionally disturbed boys home alone to be cared for by his wife, let s just say some flags were raised.
Within four days of Finicum s departure, the Arizona Department of Social Services began to remove his meal tickets from the home.
They didn t go out at the same time, Finicum said.
One was there for a year, one of the boys was there six months, another eight months, and a month.
I don t know where they ended up.
Rather than blame his involvement with a terrorist group or his own irresponsibility, Finicum says the removals resulted from pressure from the feds : They were ripped from my wife.
We are very successful (foster parents).
Our track records are good, it s been a good relationship.
(Federal authorities) must have gotten to the governor, who told the state to get them out of there.
OPB reports that this is a staggering loss of income from the Finicums, who have depended on the between $22.31 to $37.49 per day they were paid to take care of the children.
According to a 2010 tax filing, the Finicums received $115,343 in 2009.
At the maximum rate, this means they cared for an average of 8 children per day that year.
And it s exactly those dollar signs that concern Finicum, not the children he was tasked with caring for as his own: That was my main source of income.
My ranch, well, the cows just cover the costs of the ranch.
If this means rice and beans for the next few years, so be it.
We re going to stay the course.
Another of the Bundy militants, Blaine Cooper, also claims that Child Protective Services removed his children from his home.
At the Facebook page All Your Base, Cooper claimed that the removal of his children, which can not be independently verified, was an attempt by the FBI to draw him out, blaming the removals on bias media and asshole s like the page owner.
I hope people are seeing the sacrifices we re making here, Finicum said.
I want to show what my government is doing.
You need to understand the cost being paid by many people.
Finicum has pledged to die in defense of the militants armed encampment proving that he is someone who should not be entrusted with the care of children.
Watch him threaten violence against the government below:Featured image via NBC News