By now most of us know that anytime a member of the Trump campaign gets confronted about one of their leader s disgusting policies, it does not go well for them.
Wednesday night s segment of The Rachel Maddow Show was no different host Rachel Maddow grilled Trump s new campaign manager Kellyanne Conway for a solid 40 minutes.Maddow made sure to take full advantage of the fact that she had a Trump operative right in front of her, and she didn t waste a second.
For six intense minutes of the interview, Maddow confronted Conway about the Republican nominee s total and complete Muslim ban, which he d suggested in December.
Bringing up the fact that Trump had partially backtracked and flip-flopped on the idea, Maddow asked Conway if Trump still intends to enforce that policy.
Conway s response was just like all of Trump s indirect and avoidant.Conway said that Trump had clarified his proposal recently, but that it had also stayed the same.
While many interviewers might have accepted that answer and moved on, Maddow let Conway know that this wasn t going to be that kind of interview.
Maddow wouldn t let it go, and pressed her: There s a reason why we keep not moving on from this stuff.
December 7, when he made this statement, it was like every political firework went off at once.
Because nobody could believe he was saying, if you are from a specific religion, you re not allowed to come here.
If that s no longer the case, that s a big deal.
Maddow also fired off several of Trump s previous offenses such as his racist, inappropriate attacks on the Khan family and the Curiel family, stating that out of both of the responses Conway was trying to give her, only one of them can be true : In the same way that his statement of regret, if it s meant to apply to the Khan family, the Curiel family, we can t give him credit to that, unless he tells us that he s communicated that to them.
This is stuff of his own making.
If you want the campaign to not be about this stuff anymore, he s the one who has to end those controversies.
You re in a position of trying to defend what he said last week, and not refer to what he said in December, but only one of them can be true.
Conway responded by not answering the question and accusing Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton of flip-flopping over 20 times.
Conway also threw in an attack about the Clinton Foundation, accusing the former secretary of state of corruption.
Maddow once again put Conway back on task, But your own campaign is about your own candidate, right?Conway said: No.
There s a choice.
yes, this campaign is about two candidates.
If I can say one thing about the coverage, it s not that it s biased or slanted.
It s incomplete.
It s a referendum of Donald Trump, like you re going to the ballot box and it s going to be a big picture of Donald Trump with a light.
You either put a black x over him, or you say yay.
Maddow reminded Conway that one candidate is planning on banning people from the United States.
When Conway accused Clinton of hiding, Maddow dropped this truth bomb: Not doing press conferences is one thing.
But proposing a ban on people coming to the United States over a specific religion Conway said that Maddow could bring her cameras to interview The Donald himself, but it s doubtful that Trump would rise to the challenge especially after watching Maddow destroy Conway in this interview.You can watch this segment below:Featured image is a screenshot