Marco Rubio has officially joined the anti-Trump squad.
Rubio is now urging his supporters in Ohio to vote for their governor John Kasich.Ohio is Kasich s home state and is the only candidate who has a shot of taking down Trump in their primary election.
Michigan proved that Kasich has wide support in the rust belt region of the Midwest, though he did not have enough support in the peninsula to actually take down Trump.Rubio s campaign director, Alex Conant, told CNN that he and the campaign recognize that rallying behind Kasich is their best chance of keeping Ohio s 66 delegates out of Trump s hands.
Polls show Trump ahead in Ohio but if non-Trump supporter Republicans go all in on Kasich, it might be enough for the candidate to take the state.
If you are a Republican primary voter in Ohio and you want to defeat Donald Trump, your best chance in Ohio is John Kasich, Conant told CNN on Friday.Like any good communications director would Conant took the opportunity to drive the point home that what holds true for Kasich in Ohio, is also true of Rubio in Florida.
If you re a voter and Marco Rubio is not necessarily your first choice if you like John Kasich or you like Ted Cruz and you re here in Florida, you need to vote for Marco Rubio because he s the only one who can deprive Donald Trump of those 99 delegates, Conant went on to say.
And if we stop Donald Trump here in Florida, we can stop him in Cleveland.
He will not be the Republican nominee.
Rubio does stand the best chance to steal away with Florida s 99 delegates.
That s actually a huge problem for Republicans.
Polls show Trump blowing Rubio out of the water in the gator state.
In order for Rubio to take Florida, Both Ted Cruz and Kasich supporters would have to go all in for Rubio.That doesn t seem likely.
Cruz s campaign has burned many bridges with Rubio s campaign during the election.
As the runner-up, Cruz also has to maintain the posturing that comes with that position.One thing is for sure, next Tuesday s elections will probably decide who will take the Republican presidential nomination.
For Rubio, it will almost certainly be the end of his significance in the race, if not the end for him altogether.You can watch the relevant portion of the interview below.Featured image from Gage Skidmore via Flickr