Only supporters of Donald Trump could say something so stupid that a news anchor smacks their own head in frustration.When CNN host Alisyn Camerota organized a discussion with a bunch of Trump supporters, she apparently didn t expect the monumental stupidity she was about to receive.The group of Trump supporters, which included Susan DeLemus, Paula Johnson, and others whom Camerota has spoken to before throughout the 2016 Election, were totally ignorant of Trump s picks for his administration and repeatedly spouted falsehoods in order to defend him.DeLemus claimed that Trump only picked top people to fill his cabinet.
People that I m looking at that Trump has appointed or nominated have all been top of the class, number one in their field, extremely talented, great leaders on their own, she said.Of course, any reasonable person with a functioning brain understands that Trump has been scraping the bottom of the conservative barrel to fill government positions.
After all, no one can say with a straight face that Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions is the best attorney in the country.And no one can say that Sarah Palin is even remotely qualified to be Secretary of anything, much less Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Trump s pick to run the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos, is staunchly anti-public schools and funds a group that wants to dismantle child labor laws because mining would be exciting for kids.
In other words, she is definitely unqualified to shape the future of education in this country.But when the subject of protests against Trump came up, Camerota was flooded with idiocy spearheaded by Johnson.
Voting is a privilege in this country and you need to be legal, not like California where three million illegals voted, she claimed.
Where are you getting your information?
a confused Camerota asked.Johnson claimed she got the information from the media, including CNN, which means Johnson probably took reports on Trump s tweet about 3 million people voting illegally for Hillary Clinton as the truth because the media reported on it.Johnson repeatedly insisted that California let 3 million undocumented immigrants vote and claimed that President Obama encouraged them to vote.
All of the panelists agreed, with one even daring Camerota to Google it because it s on Facebook.
Well, Camerota did and found that Fox Business deceptively edited a clip of President Obama to make it sound like he encouraged undocumented immigrants to vote when, in fact, he did not.But that didn t sway Johnson from continuing to insist that California allows undocumented immigrants to vote, which caused Camerota to smack her own head in frustration because the stupid was clearly strong in this one.Here s the video via YouTube.Seriously, Donald Trump claim about 3 million illegal voters has been thoroughly debunked and has been trashed by members of his own party because it is so absurd.
This segment proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that Trump supporters are completely ignorant and have been brainwashed to believe anything that Trump says.
And yet they wonder why they are constantly mocked.Featured image via screenshot