With Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) canceling his Wednesday press conference, it left many wondering why he would do such a thing.One reason could certainly be because he doesn t quite know how to answer questions regarding Trump and his racist comments about a federal judge.
Ryan, of course, also endorsed Trump, so there s the question of why would he back a clear racist as well.Spotting this clear dodge of the press was none other that House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and she decided to have a little fun with it.Pelosi s Deputy Chief of Staff, Drew Hammill, tweeted out a pretend press release, clearly intended to mock Ryan s endorsement of Trump.It stated: Speaker Ryan to hide from Reporters TodayWashington, D.C. Speaker Paul Ryan will not be available to answer your questions today about his surrender to Donald Trump.
Speaker Ryan has cancelled his regular Wednesday press conference so you don t ask him about Donald Trump s racist commentary against a federal judge, and why, ahead of their national security agenda rollout tomorrow, the House GOP wants to hand the nuclear codes to a person who engages in textbook racism.
.
@SpeakerRyan in hiding today pic.twitter.com/NdCwZZfnY9 Drew Hammill (@Drew_Hammill) June 8, 2016BAM!
HA!Well, that certainly didn t mince words one bit.
And that press release certainly isn t wrong.
Sure, Ryan said he canceled his press conference to host India s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who just made an address to a joint session of Congress, but that s surely a cop-out considering a press conference takes barely any time at all out of his day, and you know, the fact that it s part of his job.Ryan has gotten himself into quite the pickle with his endorsement of Trump, who is clearly a bigot.
So, a press release stating Speaker Ryan to Hide from Reporters Today is perfectly accurate, because why on earth would he want to stand there and defend a racist?Well played, Pelosi.
Well played indeed.Featured Photo by Mark Wilson, Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images