Donald Trump is a small child in a 70-year-old man s body who somehow managed to get elected president of the United States.
It seems that world leaders are aware of this, and therefore are now devising methods to deal with him as such.
Case in point Trump s very first summit with the other member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).NATO officials are well aware that Trump has the attention span of a toddler who needs a nap, so they are going to keep the topics simple and make sure that any remarks are limited to two to four minute bursts.
In addition to the shortened speeches and elementary subject matter, the summit will have no formal statement after the meeting with the heads of state for the 28 countries in the NATO alliance.
Officials in the know say that the people involved in setting all of this up to accommodate Trump s childlike ways are really scrambling, as the summit is set to commence on May 25.
In short- they are going to Trump- proof the event.
From Uproxx: It s kind of ridiculous how they are preparing to deal with Trump, said one source briefed extensively on the meeting s preparations.
It s like they re preparing to deal with a child someone with a short attention span and mood who has no knowledge of NATO, no interest in in-depth policy issues, nothing, said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
They re freaking out.
People are scared of his unpredictability, intimidated by how he might react knowing the president might speak his mind or tweet his mind, [a] former official said.
Or, as another current senior NATO official put it before the meeting: We re bracing for impact.
As if this isn t bad enough, a big topic of this particular meeting of the NATO alliance will be how to share the costs and other burdens associated with NATO.
Of course, we all remember how Trump actually gave German Chancellor Angela Merkel a bill for supposed monies she owes to NATO on her very first visit to our country.
So, there s no telling what he ll say to other member nations on this topic at the summit.
This worry has not escaped the international officials preparing for this event.
Again, from Uproxx: His views of burden-sharing seem to be more ambitious than past presidents, and that could become a source of tension at the big NATO confab, said Alexander Vershbow, former deputy secretary-general of NATO.
The burden-sharing conversation may not go entirely smoothly.
This is beyond embarrassing.
With each passing day, Trump s childish temperament, incompetence, and buffoonery lessens America s standing in the world.
When will the Republicans in Congress wake up, admit they made a mistake by getting this man elected, and start preparing to oust him from office?Only time will tell.
Until then, #RESIST.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images