At this point, Jeb Bush s campaign is nothing short of pathetic.
Recently, the would-be third president in the Bush dynasty surely received a rude awakening when he had to beg a New Hampshire crowd to clap for him.Unfortunately, even though his own mother doesn t think he should be president, Bush refuses to give up.
With no chance to win unless almost every single one of his primary opponents spontaneously combusts or unless he possesses some sort of supernatural ability like mind control Jeb doesn t stand a chance.But what if Rand Paul s supporters join him?
Paul recently dropped out of the race after a humiliating fifth place finish.
Paul finished fifth among the GOP candidates with a rather unimpressive 4% of the vote, with thousands more supporters than Bush, who finished sixth.
Late night host Jimmy Kimmel took a moment Wednesday to imagine a fantastical world in which Jeb has a chance to finish fourth in a primary.
Jeb Bush is still running, but he doesn t know what to do, Kimmel said.
You know, if he loses, he can t go home because his father and brother will laugh at him.
I guess he s hoping that some of the people who supported candidates who are dropping out will get on board with him.
Fallon plays a mock ad encouraging those who wanted to stand with Rand to instead ebb with Jeb.
Jeb s still running, and he desperately needs your vote, the narrator says.
If we join forces, who know we might just make it to fourth place.
Unfortunately, Bush is so wildly unpopular that even if Paul s supporters instead joined forces with him in Iowa, he would have finished fifth behind Ben Carson anyway.
He s just that terrible.
You have to admit though with truly memorable GOP contenders like whatsisname, some guy, and another person dropping like birds in an acid storm, it takes a lot of guts for someone so grossly unqualified, unlikable, and pathetic to even consider staying in the race.Watch this hilarious segment below:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-jbVOzAe0rg?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0&w=560&h=315]Featured image via screengrab