When you have a crowd of people listening to this kind of idiotic drama, I think it s safe to say you should expect to be booed off the stage if you don t tow the line.
Here r the Black Net Roots speaker s dramatic introduction for Governor O Malley: Let s be clear Every single day folks are dying!
Not being able to take another breath!
We are in a state of emergency!
We are in a state of emergency and if you don t fill that emergency you are not human!
As the Washington Examiner noted Saturday, former Maryland governor and current presidential candidate Martin O Malley was being interviewed at the annual Netroots Nation conference and was making a statement about the need for civilian police review boards.
The interview was interrupted by a group of protestors chanting, Say, black lives matter!
In response to a question by one of the protestors about alleged instances of police brutality against African Americans, O Malley stated, I think all of us have a responsibility to recognize the pain and grief caused by lives lost to violence.
Black lives matter.
White lives matter.
All lives matter.
The statement is said to have drawn boos from the crowd.
A minute or two later, O Malley apologized.The incident illustrated neatly illustrated the cultural divide between the left and the rest of America.
Most people, without much of a thought, would agree that all lives matter, whether they belong to someone killed in an altercation with police or say a Marine gunned down by a terrorist.
The crowd at Netroots Nation disagreed.More importantly, O Malley failed the Sister Souljah test by apologizing for saying something that should be axiomatic.
A Sister Souljah Moment refers to an incident during the 1992 presidential campaign in which then Governor Bill Clinton condemned a rapper named Sister Souljah for racially incendiary lyrics in some of her songs.
The statement caused a great deal of consternation, but Clinton received praise for taking on an extremist who was part of an important Democratic constituency.
Clinton went on to be elected and then reelected four years later.
Via: The Examiner