Fox News host Greg Gutfeld has taken to Twitter to vent his rage at senior Fox hosts for treating GOP Presidential frontrunner Donald Trump with kid gloves, and he got brutal.Gutfeld made his remarks in response to the Republican Town Hall on Sunday night, and he was not pulling any punches.
He took aim at Greta Van Susteren and Sean Hannity.
As the moderators soft-pedalled Trump, Gutfeld began with a series of tweets mocking the fluffing.whew another rough one for trump.
how does he put up with this stuff!!
GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) April 4, 2016Soon after, he hit out again, mocking Trump s WINNER!
exaggerations.According to my score, Donald Trump won tonights debate by an overwhelming margin (i scored it 1012 to 0) GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) April 4, 2016And then again, savagely mocking Trump s macho bravado and schoolyard bully posturing:i have been informed tonight wasn't an actual debate, but nonetheless, the other candidates clearly were too scared to show up.
GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) April 4, 2016Just incase Gutfeld s dry attacks had been mistaken for Trump-level encouragement, he laid it on a lot thicker for his final hurrah:and get this: tomorrow Trump's gunna be on Hannity, so u know Donald will be facing the fight of his life.
Thoughts and prayers.
GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) April 4, 2016FYI I'm hosting a TownHall at my place tonite where Ill be questioning drifters I met at Port Authority.
leave your questions in Bryant Park GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) April 4, 2016It will come as little surprise to hear that Trump fans immediately jumped on Gutfeld with the usual hate-tweets about being un-American and so on.
But the Fox host beat them off like wanton flies.hahah.
best line ever: make jokes except about what i like!
https://t.co/91s0Yq2S9b GregGutfeld (@greggutfeld) April 4, 2016The tweets come just a week after Gutfeld spoke out openly about the division in Fox over Trump.
As the contest heats up the organization, like the Republican Party itself, is fracturing down the middle.
We as a show are facing internal strife, from a micro level to a macro level he said.
Look at The Five.
On any given day, we have tension over this nomination, over this candidate.
You can look at our network as a whole.
Of course, it s hard to feel too sorry for Gutfeld, working for an organization which cares so little for the facts, that it s viewers have been found to be less informed than those who watch no news at all.
After decades of his organization drilling the stupid into its viewers, they are now pliable to the twisted campaign of a chump like Trump.Featured image via YouTube Screengrab