President Trump keeps another promise.
The winning streak for Americans continues The Department of Homeland Security will stop processing any new applications for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) program.
I am here today to announce that the program known as DACA that was effectuated under the Obama administration is being rescinded, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Tuesday at a Justice Department news conference.Sessions was critical of the Obama program implemented through executive order in 2012 to give work authorization and government benefits, like Social Security to nearly a million illegal aliens.
MRCTV Watch: The brilliant Jessica Vaughan, from the Center for Immigration Studies, shared these important facts about DACA recipients in America, compiled by Harvard University researcher Roberto G. Gonzales, called the National UnDACAmented Research Project.
There are important (self-acknowledged) caveats to the findings: The research is based on an online survey of just over 2,000 self-described DACA-eligible respondents and about 200 follow-up interviews.
Gonzales believes that for a variety of reasons, the respondents are more educated and well-off than the DACA population as a whole.Nevertheless, the findings are interesting.
Here is a sample:73 percent of DACA recipients he surveyed live in a low-income household (defined as qualifying for free lunch in high school); 22 percent have earned a degree from a four-year college or university; 21 percent have dropped out of high school; 20 percent have no education beyond high school and no plans to attend college; 59 percent obtained a new job with a DACA work permit, but only 45 percent increased their overall earnings; 36 percent have a parent who holds a bachelor s degree; and 51 percent were already employed before DACA.
None of this is to suggest that these individuals should not be considered for an amnesty or legalization program, but to suggest that the arguments in favor of such a program are largely political rather than economic.
Immigrants who are not highly educated and who are working in low-paying jobs are more likely to access welfare and other public assistance programs over the course of their lives.