Just another big city destroyed by Democrats As the nation took to backyard BBQs and paused to celebrate the birth of our nation, the incessant gang warfare in and around the Chicago area continued without a hitch with 37 shootings and six deaths over the three-day weekend.
The tragic toll included the death of a 39-year-father and his two young girls in a nearby Chicago suburb.At least 64 people were shot in the nation s third largest city over the Independence Day weekend, including four people who were fatally wounded.
The grim violence in Chicago, which has recorded 329 homicides already this year, continued despite stepped up street patrols by the Chicago Police Department and the arrest of 88 gang members in two of the city s most violent neighborhoods ahead of the holiday weekend.Friday was atypical in that the shootings were relatively few and no one died, but the rest of the weekend more than made up for it.
Friday featured only five citizens wounded, all in separate incidents.Saturday rang in with a vengeance with 11 shootings and two deaths, while Sunday saw 14 shootings and one death.
Sunday also saw an additional three people murdered in a nearby suburb.
By Independence Day itself, another four citizens were wounded.One of the most tragic shootings of the holiday weekend was the death of 39-year-old Dionus M. Neely, who was shot and killed along with his ten-year-old and three-year-old daughters, Elle and India.The murders took place in the nearby Chicago suburb of Hazel Crest on Sunday morning just after 2 AM, police report.
Anyone who could kill a three-year-old and a ten-year-old, no matter what the circumstances, is nothing but pure evil as far as I m concerned, Hazel Crest Police Chief Mitchell Davis III said on Sunday afternoon.The long weekend brings the list of violence to 2,008 total Chicagoans shot, and 302 shot and killed, among the total 336 homicides in the Windy City thus far this year.
BreitbartReverend Jesse Lee Peterson has some thoughts on why crime is so high in majority black cities and why Americans need to STOP blaming cops for the fatherless crisis that is plaguing inner city communities.Fatherless homes combined with the left s policies and attacks on free speech are creating thugs and cop killers.
It s important to shine a light on this anti-cop mentality that has so contaminated America s inner cities.
The underlying cause of all this of course?
Young black men growing up without fathers.Progressives of all colors have intimidated most white Americans with the R word (racist), and now whites rarely comment on black criminality.
These same progressives are perpetuating the fatherlessness and anti-police attitude that is wreaking havoc on America s inner cities.Many blacks today have a serious issue with authority figures.
This problem starts in the home and manifests itself as early as preschool.A Department of Education study found that blacks make up 18 percent of all preschool children, but they account for 42 percent of suspensions.Education Secretary Arne Duncan blamed the problem on racial disparities, and was stunned that we were suspending and expelling 4 years olds.
Duncan is more stunned by the disciplinary action of the schools than he is by the rotten behavior of the kids.
No surprise.
Rotten kids are anti-authority so are progressives.Attorney General Eric Holder said a zero-tolerance approach eventually leads many students into the criminal justice system and promised to end the school-to-prison pipeline.
In other words, according to Holder, disciplining bad kids is creating a path to prison!
This is progressive wisdom.
Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton, the NAACP, the Congressional Black Caucus and other leftist black leaders have been excusing black criminals and stoking hatred toward police for decades.The 1992 Los Angeles riots, sparked by the police beating of Rodney King, resulted in the deaths of 60 people.
But Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., didn t call it a riot; she called it a rebellion.
The rap music industry has long promoted violence toward cops.
The most notorious perpetrators include: N.W.A.
(Niggaz with Attitudes) with their F tha Police lyrics, rapper ICE-T s Cop Killer album, and Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg s 187 (about murdering cops).
Video games like Grand Theft Auto also reinforce anti-police attitudes.Progressive mayors are allowing thugs and cop haters to flourish in our cities.Leftist NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio ended previous Mayor Rudy Giuliani s successful stop, question, and frisk program after complaints that it unfairly targeted minorities, and now violent crime has skyrocketed.According to CompStat figures, 129 people were shot last month a 43 percent increase over the same period last year.In Chicagoland, progressive policies and fatherlessness have created killing fields.
The recent Independence Day massacre, where 82 shootings resulted in 15 people killed, doesn t help the city s image.Instead of aggressively going after Chicago s gangs, Obama former Chief of Staff and now Mayor Rahm Emanuel is focused on the guns, even though Chicago has some of the nation s toughest gun-control laws.Progressives have created an environment that rewards irresponsibility and dependency.
Sending welfare payments to single women with children has resulted in the decline of black marriages.
Today, 73 percent of black kids are born out of wedlock.Since most black fathers are not around, these children never develop respect for authority.
In fact, they grow to hate the impatience and pressure their mothers put on them.Recently I interviewed Paul Raeburn, author of Do Fathers Matter?
Here are just a few of his findings: When fathers are absent during mother s pregnancy, the baby is more likely to be born prematurely.
The baby is four times as likely to die in the first year.
If the man is depressed, the child is eight times as likely to have behavior problems and 36 times as likely to have difficulty getting along with peers.
Kids with dads around are less likely to become bullies : Oxford researchers said when fathers were absent, children had higher rates of aggressive behavior.Obviously the missing link to end the cycle of violence and the anti-police attitude in the black community is to rebuild black families.
Progressive policies of providing financial incentives for single mothers who have kids out of wedlock must end.Progressives also bully people into not speaking truth about moral cause and effect.
They re not just immoral they are anti-moral.
Yet, Americans especially white Americans have to start speaking out about the anti-authority mindset destroying our inner cities.
If whites and blacks allow the lawlessness to continue, the chaos and anti-cop violence will spread everywhere.
And when police are not safe no one is safe.
Via: WND