A Georgetown University associate professor had a month-long meltdown after a Muslim woman explained why she voted for President-elect Donald Trump.Asra Q. Nomani, a former Georgetown journalism professor and Wall Street Journal reporter, wrote an op-ed in The Washington Post Nov. 10 explaining why she, as a Muslim woman and long-time liberal, voted for Trump.
I support the Democratic Party s position on abortion, same-sex marriage and climate change, Nomani wrote.
But I am a single mother who can t afford health insurance under Obamacare.
Here is a portion of Nomani s op-ed explaining why she s supporting Trump:A lot is being said now about the silent secret Trump supporters.
This is my confession and explanation: I a 51-year-old, a Muslim, an immigrant woman of color am one of those silent voters for Donald Trump.
And I m not a bigot, racist, chauvinist or white supremacist, as Trump voters are being called, nor part of some whitelash.
In the winter of 2008, as a lifelong liberal and proud daughter of West Virginia, a state born on the correct side of history on slavery, I moved to historically conservative Virginia only because the state had helped elect Barack Obama as the first African American president of the United States.But, then, for much of this past year, I have kept my electoral preference secret: I was leaning toward Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.Tuesday evening, just minutes before the polls closed at Forestville Elementary School in mostly Democratic Fairfax County, I slipped between the cardboard partitions in the polling booth, a pen balanced carefully between my fingers, to mark my ballot for president, coloring in the circle beside the names of Trump and his running mate, Mike Pence.
WPJust prior to the election Nomani explains why she s voting for Trump:C. Christine Fair, a previously friendly colleague, went on a 31-day screed against Nomani spanning across Twitter and Facebook.
According to Nomani s Dec. 23 follow-up complaint to the university, the Peace and Security Studies professor called her a wretch, clueless dolt and a fame-monger.Fair also compared Trump to Adolf Hitler and asserted that Nomani s vote for Trump helped normalize Nazis in DC.
She didn t clarify if she was referring to Trump supporters or actual Nazis marching the streets.She again attacked Nomani Dec. 6 with an open letter on Facebook, in which Fair told her to f*ck off and GO TO HELL.
It s unclear why Fair announces that she s a slut.
Nomani told The Daily Caller News Foundation that Georgetown professor Bruce Hoffman replied to her original Dec. 2 complaint on Dec. 3.
He told her he forwarded her complaint to professor Irfan Nooruddin.
Nooruddin is the faculty chair of Georgetown s School of Foreign Service.Nooruddin told Nomani in a Dec. 4 email that, I shall follow up directly with Professor Fair.
Fair posted her Facebook rant about Nomani two days after Nooruddin said he would speak with her.
Additionally, she threatened Nomani in an email Dec. 6 with legal action.
Your attempt to silence my opinion or force a dialogue by involving my employer is unacceptable and any further action on your part to involve Georgetown will be met with legal action, Fair wrote.
Your social media and email appeal to my employer with the intent or threat of damaging my employment status is a form of cyber bullying, which will not be tolerated.
Daily Caller