This week, Senator Ted Cruz lost the Indiana primary and just days after picking his vice presidential candidate, dropped out of the race for the Republican nomination for the White House.
Less than 24 hours after Cruz threw in the towel, Ohio Governor John Kasich gave up too, and there was one dumbass left standing: Donald Trump.
Suddenly, a scary realization hit Americans across the country: A reality star is one step away from becoming president and we have no idea how this happened.
Well, not everyone is surprised; in fact, Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) took Trump seriously from the very beginning.A video of ABC s This Week With George Stephanopoulos from July 2015 is making the rounds on the internet in the wake of Trump s candidacy and it shows Rep. Ellison warning a panel about the rise of Drumpf.
During the show s segment Ellison says: All I want to say is that anybody from the Democratic side of the fence who thinks that uh who s terrified of the possibility of President Trump, better vote, better get active, better get involved because this man has got some momentum and we better be ready for the fact that he might be leading the Republican ticket.
Maggie Haberman of the New York Times and George Stephanopoulos laughed out loud and George said, I know you don t believe that Ellison reasserted his warning explaining that Jesse Ventura won Minnesota and said, I m telling you, stranger things have happened.
Crooks and Liars named others who predicted his rise as well:It s not surprising then that among the folks that got it right last summer were liberals like Ellison:Digby, June 2015: Donald Trump has the potential to be a serious 2016 player.
And that says everything you need to know about the Republican presidential field and the state of our politics today.Michael Moore, December 2015: Donald Trump is absolutely going to be the Republican candidate for president of the United States.
It s going from being a joke to being a serious reality.Robert Creamer at Huffpo, August 2015: Trump is not going away.
He is, in fact, a real contender for the nomination.And we also predicted it, way back in August of 2015 with our article These 16 Quotes Explain Why Trump Will Be The Republican Candidate.
It s really shocking that so many people are surprised that Trump is the GOP nominee; I mean, this guy is the walking embodiment of everything right-wing.
He, like many members of the Tea Party, does not believe that President Obama is American.
He hates immigrants, but only the Hispanic and Muslim ones.
He doesn t like black people.
He disrespects women.
He wants to send our kids to war.
He hates the government, loves his tax breaks, has been endorsed by the KKK and lies ALL THE TIME.
There is nobody more perfect to represent the Republican party and if you are shocked, frankly you haven t been paying attention.The only thing left to do, for the sake of this country, is put our infighting aside and vote blue no matter who our candidate is.Watch Ellison s predictions:Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images