Donald Trump just got his ass handed to him by a former NATO Ambassador for claiming that Germany owes the organization money.On Saturday, Trump attacked Germany by accusing them of shortchanging NATO and owing money to the United States for defense.Despite what you have heard from the FAKE NEWS, I had a GREAT meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Nevertheless, Germany owes .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2017 vast sums of money to NATO & the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2017Once again, Trump demonstrated that he has no clue how NATO works and totally embarrassed himself by attacking an ally.Not only did German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen shoot down Trump s claims by pointing out that Germany has no debt account at NATO, a former American NATO Ambassador stepped up and thoroughly humiliated Trump by educating him on how NATO works in a series of tweets.1/ Sorry, Mr. President, that s not how NATO works.
The US decides for itself how much it contributes to defending NATO.
pic.twitter.com/8svkzRBEQb Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20172/ This is not a financial transaction, where NATO countries pay the US to defend them.
It is part of our treaty commitment.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20173/ All NATO countries, including Germany, have committed to spend 2% of GDP on defense by 2024.
So far 5 of 28 NATO countries do.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20174/ Those who currently don t spend 2% of their GDP on defense are now increasing their defense budgets.
That s a good thing.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20175/ But no funds will be paid to the US.
They are meant to increase NATO s overall defense capabilities, given the growing Russian threat.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20176/ Europe must spend more on defense, but not as favor (or payment) to the US.
But because their security requires it.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20177/ US does provide large military commitment to NATO.
But this is not a favor to Europe.
It is vital for our own security.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20178/ We fought two world wars in Europe, and one cold war.
Keeping Europe whole, free, and at peace, is vital US interest.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 20179/ A strong, united NATO, in which all contribute their fair share to defense, will secure that peace for all Alliance members.
Ivo Daalder (@IvoHDaalder) March 18, 2017As Ivo Daalder just explained, the commitment to NATO spending is a long-term plan that will occur by 2024.
The deadline is fixed and Trump cannot force other nations to pay what he wants them to pay.Also, the United States does not run NATO.
It s a defense pact between our nation and the nations of Europe designed for mutual defense and cooperation against threats to Europe and North America.
But Trump seems to think that it s an American operated security business or something.Trump is the most inept president in our history and he continues to prove it every time he opens his big mouth.Featured image via Mario Tama/Getty Images