The Electoral College should tell Donald Trump and his deplorable supporters to go f*ck themselves.The Electoral College convenes on December 19th to cast their votes for president.
And it will only take 38 of them to cast their votes against Trump to prevent him from taking office.You see, while we have an election every year consisting of electoral votes and the popular vote, all 538 from all 50 states are constitutionally required to have the final say on who becomes president.
As Alexander Hamilton explained in the Federalist Papers, the Electoral College is the last line of defense to choose a person who is To an eminent degree, endowed with the requisite qualifications to be President of the United States.And that is why millions of Americans are pleading with the Electoral College to exercise their power and vote against Donald Trump.Of course, Trump supporters are trying to bully and threaten the electors to make sure our country gets destroyed.
In fact, an elector in Texas reports that Trump supporters threatened to rape and murder his family if he doesn t vote the way they want him to vote.Christopher Suprun shared the grisly threat with his fellow elector Art Sisneros, who shared the threat with Texas Monthly.
You vote for Trump or we rape your wife and daughters with a knife before we kill you, the threat reads.
Do as told or face consequences.
Sisneros explained that he has also been receiving threats from Trump supporters.
The Trump supporters and the people on the right thought that I absolutely had to vote for Trump, and to do otherwise was some kind of treasonous act, he said.Except that Sisneros can vote for whomever he pleases when December 19th rolled around, and that is getting easier to figure out since left-wing groups are reportedly encouraging the electors to choose anyone but Trump, even if it s not Hillary Clinton.Right-wingers and Trump supporters, on the other hand, are being downright scary and are acting like the electors are required to vote for Trump.
They were far more aggressive and far more nasty, Sisneros said.
I received a lot of threats.
I just didn t think it would do any good to share them or make a big deal out of them.
There were several nasty ones to vote for Trump, or else.
Some of them were pretty vague like, We re going to hunt you down, that kind of stuff.
Some were like, We re going to find out where you work and come after you.
Frankly, threats like these ought to immediately disqualify Trump from office.
After all, he and his supporters are the ones threatening the electors with dire consequences.
This should really make it easy for the electors to reject Trump outright.
He is a danger to our democracy and his cabinet picks are a threat to our government and democratic institution.
Trump is even a danger to our continued survival as a free people considering Russia interfered with our election and helped Trump win so Putin can have a puppet in the White House.The Electoral College has a chance to do what they were designed to do and that is making sure that a demagogue and con artist is prevented from holding the highest office in the land.
So the electors need to have courage to save our nation.
Rejecting Trump is the right thing to do.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images