On Thursday during a visit to Mexico City, Mexico, Vice President Joe Biden apologized to the citizens of our neighbor to the South for the hateful rhetoric they have been hearing from our nation s Republicans especially the hate speech coming from Donald Trump s campaign: There has been a lot of damaging and incredibly inaccurate rhetoric and I would argue, I almost feel obliged to apologize for some of what my political colleagues said.
It is about Mexico, it is about Mexican people.Biden explained to President Enrique Pe a Nieto that it s a heated campaign season, and that Republicans are willing to say pretty much anything to be declared King or Queen of Stupid Mountain as they vie for the GOP nomination.
The words of Trump or any of his colleagues, the Vice President said, is the antithesis of how most Americans feel: It s a heated campaign season and I just want you to know, Mr. President, that the most heated rhetoric you ve heard from competitors for the nomination for president is not who we are as the American people.
It is not the view that is the view of the majority of the American people.
It s the exact opposite.
It s the opposite view.
The GOP s rhetoric toward Hispanics has been rather hateful, but Donald Trump has attracted the most scrutiny with his assertion that the Mexican Government sends people to the United States people who, according to the billionaire bankruptcy expert, are all rapists, drug dealers, and murderers.
In fact, he plans to build a wall and force Mexico to pay for it, because Trump is apparently too stupid to realize that tunnels are a thing.Trump s hate is so pervasive that two former Mexican Presidents have recently spoken up in opposition to the horrible rhetoric spouted at any of his rallies.
In early February, Felipe Calderon informed Trump that it is extremely unlikely that his country would build his signature campaign promise: We are not going to pay any single cent for such a stupid wall!
And it s going to be completely useless.
No offense, no offense to America.
So Donald Trump is ambitious but not exactly very well-informed man, I don t want to say ignorant, but he is not very well informed.
Later in the month, former President Vicente Fox was a bit more blunt: I declare.
I m not gonna pay for that f*cking wall!
Trump s anti-Hispanic hate speech has even inspired violence against a completely legal homeless man.
In August, two men inspired by Donald declared that the billionaire was right before beating the helpless and unarmed man with a metal pipe and urinating on him.
Rather than condemn the attack, Trump called the men passionate individuals who want to make America great again.
It is impressive that Biden would take it upon himself to apologize but those who truly bear the shame are our frenemies on the Right.
Unfortunately, they will never apologize because they are incapable of feeling shame.Watch Biden apologize below: Featured image via screengrab