The absolute hatred conservatives have for First Lady Michelle Obama knows no bounds and now we are being treated to another example of it.
In 2009, Mrs. Obama planted a garden on the White House lawn in an effort to promote healthy eating and to encourage others to plant their own home gardens as well.But conservatives have complained ever since because for some reason they oppose healthy eating.It s been seven years since the garden was planted and it has flourished, expanding from 1,100 square feet to 2,800 square feet and now Michelle is protecting what she and the White House staff have spent years developing by making it permanent.As we all know, Donald Trump has vowed to reverse or overturn everything President Obama and the First Lady have ever done over the last eight years.
That means Michelle Obama s garden could very well be plowed over just to spite Democrats and the Obama family.
Conservatives would certainly cheer on this petty act.
But Michelle has taken steps to ensure that the garden remains on the grounds for future First Families to enjoy by setting it in stone.With a stone walkway running through it and stone walls surrounding the plots consisting of steel and concrete, Michelle Obama officially dedicated the garden on Wednesday in a ceremony at the White House.
This little garden will live on as a symbol of the hopes that we all hold of growing a healthier nation for our children, Obama said.
I am hopeful that future first families will cherish this garden like we have, and that it will become one of our enduring White House traditions.
In addition, a message etched in the stone reads, White House Kitchen Garden, established in 2009 by First Lady Michelle Obama with the hope of growing a healthier nation for our children.
Now the garden is a historic symbol representing President Obama and his family s time in the White House, which makes it far more difficult, if not impossible, for the next president to get rid of.
And racist conservatives are enraged so much about it that they lost their shit and spewed hateful and racist remarks all over the internet.Here are some screenshots.And here are some tweets via Twitter.
@gatewaypundit I ll bet her gardening is done by others & will stop in her privileged life outside of WH Deplorable#22 (@donnakaye2014) October 6, 2016@gatewaypundit Woman grew up privileged but acts like she grew up poor in the ghetto, disgraceful person.
JRader (@ZZBlueComet) October 6, 2016@BigStick2013 @gatewaypundit plow it under ,no reminders of destruction of our constitution by obama Trumplican (@Trumplican1) October 6, 2016@nprpolitics Bulldoze it and put in a putting green.
Bill Ferrin (@WFerrin) October 6, 2016And from Facebook.As usual, conservatives have zero class and only have a capacity for hatred.
President Obama should seriously sign an executive order praising oxygen so we can watch right-wingers hold their breath in protest.Featured image via Wikimedia