Republican delusion never ceases to reach new ridiculous heights of absolute stupidity.In their race to make Oklahoma the most anti-abortion state in the nation, Republicans passed SB1552 in the House this week.
The legislation now moves to the Senate where it will likely also pass before then heading to the desk of GOP Governor Mary Fallin, who will likely sign it into law.
You know, because hating women and costing taxpayers millions of dollars to defend an unconstitutional law is what Republicans obsess with these days.But one Republican actually argued that Oklahoma taxpayers shouldn t worry about the cost of the legal expenses because according to him, God will pay the costs.Despite the fact that Oklahoma faces a $1.3 billion deficit, GOP state Rep. David Brumbaugh excused passing the bill by claiming that God will fix the state s crumbling economy and pay all the legal expenses resulting from forthcoming lawsuits if they do the moral thing and ban abortion.
Everybody talks about this $1.3 billion deficit, Brumbaugh said on Thursday.
If we take care of the morality, God will take care of the economy.
I ve heard almost every argument today about judicial challenge to this legislation and after much prayer and study, I ask myself this question, he continued.
Do we make laws because they re moral and right, or do we make them based on what an unelected judicial occupant might question or overturn?
No, Rep. Brumbaugh.
We make laws in this country based on the Constitution and the Supreme Court has ruled that the 14th Amendment prohibits banning women from making private choices regarding their own bodies, and that includes the right to choose to have an abortion.But if SB1552 passes in Oklahoma, women across that state will no longer get a choice because the bill makes it a law that doctors who perform an abortion other than for a woman who has suffered a miscarriage or their life is in danger to have their license revoked.
In short, women would not even be able to get an abortion within the first 13 weeks of pregnancy when 90 percent of abortions occur because doctors would be faced with having their license to practice medicine taken away from them.
Basically, Republicans are trying to ban abortion by punishing doctors who perform the procedure.Brumbaugh went on to compare abortion to slavery and then scoffed at the fact that the bill is unconstitutional.
Don t let people tell you, Unconstitutional arguments, Roe v. Wade, all this, he said.Once again, a Republican insanely believes that passing certain legislation will please God enough that all of our problems will be magically fixed.
Taxpayers in Oklahoma should be outraged that one of their own representatives is trying to dupe them in this way to excuse a bill that would strip millions of women of their reproductive rights.Featured Image: YouTube