If Jeff Sessions really cares about the law and the Constitution he ll read his own words about perjury and resign in disgrace.During his confirmation hearing to become Donald Trump s Attorney General, Sessions took a very clear question from Senator Al Franken and answered it with a very clear answer.Sessions was asked if he had any communication with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign.
I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians, Sessions responded.And as we now know, that was a complete and total lie that was told under oath.In other words, Sessions perjured himself in front of Congress.So far, Sessions has refused to resign, and that makes him a hypocrite considering what he once said about Bill Clinton in 1999 after Republicans failed to impeach the former president.According to the New York Times, here is what Sessions had to say after the acquittal.It has been proven beyond a reasonable doubt and to a moral certainty that President William Jefferson Clinton perjured himself before a Federal grand jury and has persisted in a continuous pattern of lying and obstructing justice.
The chief law-enforcement officer of the land, whose oath of office calls on him to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution, crossed the line and failed to defend and protect the law and, in fact, attacked the law and the rights of a fellow citizen.
Under our Constitution, equal justice requires that he forfeit his office.
For these reasons, I felt compelled to vote to convict and remove the President from office.
.
.
.It is crucial to our system of justice that we demand the truth.
I fear that an acquittal of this President will weaken the legal system by providing an option for those who consider being less than truthful in court.
Whereas the handling of the case against President Nixon clearly strengthened the nation s respect for law, justice and truth, the Clinton impeachment may unfortunately have the opposite result.Now the man who called for equal justice and said we demand the truth just got caught committing perjury and he is refusing to forfeit his office.Having an extramarital affair is not against the law.
But Republicans decided to go on a political witch hunt for it back in the 1990s even though several of those lawmakers who voted to impeach Clinton were themselves caught cheating on their spouses.Colluding with the Russians during a critical election on behalf of the Republican candidate and lying about it under oath is far worse than anything Bill Clinton ever did.By all rights, Sessions should be impeached from office, but Republicans are only interested in impeaching officials if it helps their agenda.
They are hypocrites and the whole lot of them do not deserve to hold office in this country.It s time for Jeff Sessions to look at himself in the mirror and decide if equal justice and the truth are as important to him now as he claimed it was then.
Because if not, he should not be the Attorney General.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images