Donald Trump has made a lot of offensive statements over the years, and Hillary Clinton is using them against him in a series of short video clips to educate people on what their possible next president thinks.
The first in a new series: a message from your potential next president on pregnancy, Clinton says to introduce the clip on Twitter.It s only an 18 second snippet.
Hail to the Chief plays in the background and then Donald Trump appears to give his brief thoughts on pregnancy.
Well you know, pregnancy is never it s a wonderful thing for the woman, it s a wonderful thing for the husband, it s certainly an inconvenience for business, Trump says.Here s the video via Twitter.The first in a new series: a message from your potential next president on pregnancy.https://t.co/LmUZI20JCo Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 27, 2016So all you women out there who manage to work and have a family, Trump wants you to know that you are an inconvenience for business.
Yeah, that s probably going to piss off a lot of women.
And that s the point.
Hillary Clinton is laying the groundwork for the general election by releasing these short clips featuring Trump and all the stupid and offensive remarks he has made on issue after issue over the years.Trump is already the Republican nominee so if Hillary captures the Democratic nomination, she would be battling Trump for the White House and America s future.The orange-tanned businessman certainly has a steep cliff to climb when it comes to women voters.70 percent of women hold an unfavorable view of Trump.
And an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll shows Clinton leading Trump 51 to 38 percent among female voters, a 13 point gap that is wider than President Obama s victory over Mitt Romney among women in 2012.
NPR reports that if the numbers hold the gender gap would be the widest it has ever been since 1952, which makes it clear that the Republican Party is in serious trouble if they think they can win election merely by courting the votes of white old men.Hillary certainly has plenty of ammunition to fire at Trump with future videos, too.
After all, we re talking about a guy who has suggested on mulitple occasions that he wants to have incestuous relations with his daughter, a guy who has openly stated that he is more interested in getting women pregnant than he is in helping to take care of the kids after they are born.
I like kids, Trump once said.
I mean, I won t do anything to take care of them.
I ll supply funds and she ll take care of the kids.
It s quotes like this that could bury Trump this November if Hillary Clinton gathers enough of them to use in short videos that will definitely appeal to those who don t have the patience to sit through an entire Trump interview or debate.Trump and and GOP should take note, because it looks like their poll numbers are about to get worse.Featured image via screenshot