After last week s election, Hillary supporters found a modicum of comfort in a photo, which quickly went viral.
The photo was taken the day after the election.
A woman named Margot Gerster, who was hiking through the woods in Upstate New York, ran into Hillary and Bill Clinton.
Gerster snapped a photo of her and the Democratic nominee and innocently uploaded it to social media.
That s when the sh*t hit the fan and she began receiving death threats.The photo was simply of the two women and Gerster s baby.
It in no way questioned or even referenced Donald Trump s election.
Instead, it was a reassurance that life goes on, even after a crushing defeat.Within what seemed like hours, the conservative media attacks began.
The chance encounter had to be fake, the argument went, because Gerster had met Hillary Clinton once before, many years ago.
As if people don t have chance encounters with people they have previously met.Gerster admits she met Clinton when she was a teenager, but that had nothing to do with last Wednesday s chance encounter: It was so long ago,I do not remember.
All I knew was that I was going to a nice dinner and Hillary Clinton was there, she said.The mom dismissed accusations she s a long-time ally of the Clintons who secretly planned and engineered the heart-warming, post-election snap.
If I were long-time friends of the Clintons, I wouldn t be keeping that a secret.
I d be bragging about it to everyone I know, Gerster said.Source: New York PostGerster insists, and Federal Election Commission records confirm, that she didn t even donate to Clinton.But, conservatives never let facts get in the way of a good conspiracy theory and Gerster says she s been getting death threats, although there s no record she s reported them to the cops.
I don t want to discuss this anymore, said Gerster, 30.
This story needs to go away.
It got a lot of positive feedback from a lot of people, but I don t want this to add on to this (blowback), I don t want to fuel the fire.
Who can blame her?
Trump has clearly unleashed an ugly and violent underbelly in America.
No one is safe.Featured image via Margot Gerster screen capture.