Things just went from bad to worse for the Republican Party.Being in charge just isn t what Republicans imagined it would be like.After all, they have majority control of the House and Senate and have the perfect puppet in the White House to rubber stamp their destructive agenda.But millions of angry Americans across the country, including Democrats, Republicans, and independents, have made Republicans in Congress incredibly nervous about the GOP healthcare bill.
Nervous enough to actually oppose it.The Trumpcare bill would strip healthcare away from 20 million Americans and cause premiums to skyrocket, both of which Donald Trump promised would not happen.
In short, he lied, and many Republicans don t want to commit political suicide with him.The Republican failure to pass their terrible bill is good for the American people, but it s politically harmful to the GOP because their failure to pass their own bill despite having majority control makes them look incompetent of governing.Keep in mind that Republicans have insisted for years that they are more capable of governing the United States than Democrats.
But when Americans actually put them in charge of the entire government it turns out Republicans were all talk and no walk.Rather than govern, Republicans have let Trump systematically destroy this country and now they have failed miserably in their first effort to pass a major policy on their agenda.And even Fox News is disgusted by how Republicans have performed.During his show on Fox Business on Friday, stalwart Republican cheerleader Stuart Varney literally called the entire Republican Party a disgrace and conceded that they can t govern, much to the surprise of Juan Williams.
I personally believe at this moment in time, the Republican Party is a disgrace, Varney declared.
I m serious.
I am serious.
We elected the Republicans to run the House, the Senate and the White House and the very, very first thing that comes up on the legislative agenda they vote no, they re split.
They can t do it.
They can t govern.
I am really fit to be tied.
Varney invited Williams to take shots at him and the GOP but he declined to do so, opting instead to point out that the Republicans who oppose this bill are doing so because it s a bad bill.Here s the video via YouTube:Indeed, the bill is not better than the Affordable Care Act.
In fact, it kills all of the good things the Affordable Care Act provides and takes America back to a time when the uninsured rate was shockingly high and people had to choose between paying for healthcare or paying their bills to avoid homelessness and starvation.But Republicans only have themselves to blame what the position they are in right now.
Rather than supporting a law that includes many Republican ideas such as an individual mandate, they chose to viciously oppose the law instead and demonize it for political gain.
Furthermore, they had seven years to come up with a better healthcare plan and couldn t even do that.
More Americans now understand that the Affordable Care Act was not the evil Republicans portrayed it to be and they now want to save it.
Americans are learning about all the good things Republicans would be destroying by repealing it.And now even Fox News is having a hard time defending Republicans on this issue.
And losing the support of their propaganda machine should signal to Republicans that they have royally f*cked up.Featured image via screenshot