All kinds of people from both the Left and the Right have been all over the cable news shows in recent days to tell the entire country not to be scared of President-elect Donald Trump.
However, Republican strategist Ana Navarro, who has been warning of the dangers of Donald Trump for months, just unleashed an EPIC tweetstorm that shows us all just how dangerous Trump s administration is to be for anyone not straight, white, male, and Christian.
Navarro focused on the appointment of Steve Bannon as Trump s Chief Strategist, which means we have a literal white supremacist in the White House.
Here is the series of tweets Navarro sent out:Oh, hell!
White supremacist, anti gay, anti Semite, vindictive, scary-ass dude named Senior Strategist.
After vomiting, be afraid, America.
https://t.co/cZvP3vccjS Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) November 13, 2016God help us all.
Really.
https://t.co/OPLDlsaejj Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) November 13, 2016Ax, "deeply disturbing" is when ur car gets scratched.
A white supremacist Neanderthal in WH w/President's ear is DISGUSTING & TERRIFYING!
https://t.co/LGRdp6Hn4G Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) November 13, 2016Don't know if Trump playing both sides.
I do know we're stuck w/him at least 4 yrs.
I hope he works to reign in racism/division he unleashed https://t.co/UFW6dAcccK Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) November 14, 2016Ana Navarro is right.
The worst thing we could do is to normalize Trump s campaign trail behavior, or to normalize the bigots he is surrounding himself with ESPECIALLY Stephen Bannon.
We are seeing the rise of bigotry in America in a mainstream sense in ways that we haven t seen in decades certainly I ve never seen anything quite like it in MY lifetime, and I am 35 years old.
This is not normal.
We must be vigilant.
Fear is a healthy emotion right now.
So is extreme caution.Trump is trying to normalize white supremacy and the Alt-Right, which is nothing more than the new Ku Klux Klan.
It s time to stop pretending that Trump s election is not a national tragedy, and stand up to him and his cronies, less we become a nation that celebrates the Jim Crow era and shuns and punishes diversity.Featured image via screen capture from YouTube