Sarah Palin, one of the nigh-innumerable deplorables in Donald Trump s basket, almost outdid herself in terms of horribleness on Friday.
I know, I know, it seems impossible but it s true.
Palin posted a link to an article on Facebook that shows a white man pulling a gun on peaceful African-American protesters in Charlotte only to get away with it.
They re not protestors, they re rioters and this changed some things!
Palin wrote triumphantly.The driver, a white man likely suffering from an affliction that causes his penis to not only be tiny, but inverted, decides to show the protesters what a badass he is by pulling a handgun on the crowd and holding it out the window of the vehicle.
Protesters begin to yell he has a gun, and the man can be sween violently swinging the door of his vehicle open as though he intended to attack the crowd.
Eventually law enforcement takes notice.
An officer walks over to the nice ammosexual s car, they have a nice friendly chat, and the man is allowed to leave without a single charge despite the fact that it is illegal in North Carolina to brandish a firearm or bring a gun to a protest.
In fact, it is illegal to keep a handgun under the front seat or in an unlocked glove compartment, or concealed without a permit (we do not know if the man had a permit or not, but pulling a gun on peaceful protesters is against the law regardless).
You may not carry a weapon at a parade, funeral procession, picket line, or other demonstration, except for guns carried on a rack in a pickup truck, state law decrees.
You may not carry a weapon during civil disorder, riot, or other disturbance involving three or more people.
White dude drives into crowd of peaceful protesters, draws gun, allowed to drive away alive.
With my own eyes, Heather Head, who filmed the video, writes on Twitter.
Though the usual conservative bunch jumped on Twitter to claim the man was black, Head pointed out that she had a first-hand view of the gentleman with a gun, and he looks pretty white bread to me.
Yes, he broke the law and was allowed to escape without learning a single thing from his actions via some form of punishment, but to Palin s followers he s a hero: Notice the language: animals.
Savages.
They should all be shot.
Hillary Clinton was exactly right these people are a basket of deplorables, or a billion more appropriate, less nice, terms.
Each and every one of these Trumpaholics will be voting in November.
Make sure you re out there too.Watch it below:Featured image via screen capture