The nation is in mourning for the lives of 50 people that were taken during a mass shooting that took place Saturday night at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida.
The shooter has been identified as Omar Mateen of Port St. Lucie, Florida.
The current number of people who are hospitalized with injuries from the shooting is 53.
This makes Saturday night s massacre the largest mass shooting in United States history.The massacre is already being heavily politicized, with Fox hosts actually blaming Obama for the shooting.
How they figure they can make that connection is anyone s guess.Here is how the presumptive presidential nominees reacted to news of the shooting on Twitter:Really bad shooting in Orlando.
Police investigating possible terrorism.
Many people dead and wounded.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 12, 2016Woke up to hear the devastating news from FL.
As we wait for more information, my thoughts are with those affected by this horrific act.
-H Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 12, 2016Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders appeared on MSNBC s Meet The Press early Sunday morning where he called the shooting horrific and unthinkable while calling for people to come together to create solutions to help end these types of tragedies.
He also called for the creation of a national instant background system that will help to keep dangerous individuals from getting these weapons.
"It's horrific, it's unthinkable," says @BernieSanders on #OrlandoShooting this morning on @MeetThePress.
#MTP #Orlando NBC News PR (@NBCNewsPR) June 12, 2016Mateen s motivations for the shooting are still currently unknown.
His father has spoken out publicly issuing an apology for his son s actions claiming that this had nothing to do with religion.
Mateen s father says that he saw his son become very angry previously when he would see two men kissing.Investigators are trying to determine whether this shooting is a matter of domestic terrorism or international terrorism.
Reports indicate that every person killed at the nightclub was shot with an assault rifle.
It has been reported that Mateen was also carrying a handgun and some type of explosive device.Featured image from Photo by Gerardo Mora/Getty Images