What a unique way for a President of the United States to spend his Memorial Day weekend apologizing to a nation who wanted to destroy us, but were defeated because of those brave men who gave all to defend our nation against evil Every visit our repulsive apologist President makes to a foreign country is calculated.
It s hard to imagine any reason other than campaigning for UN Secretary General for his visits, as he makes his way around to communist and former enemy nations apologizing for America s transgressions .
Will America survive the 7 months that still remain in this traitor s term?
President Barack Obama delivered a pious anti-war address in Hiroshima highlighting humanity s core contradiction of war, lamenting that humanity tried to justify war because of religion.
How easily we learn to justify violence in the name of some higher cause, he said.
Every great religion promises a pathway to love and peace and righteousness, and yet no religion has been spared from believers that have claimed their faith has a license to kill.
Obama blamed religious zeal or nationalist fervor for inspiring humankind to war throughout history, but urged the world to seek a future filled with peace.Watch here at the 7:50 mark:https://youtu.be/ikI0F7wVomoThe president did not explicitly apologize for America using the nuclear bomb to end World War II but rhetorically painted a vivid scene of the bomb that wasted the entire city.
Death fell from the sky and the world was changed, he said, pointing to the wall of fire that ended the lives of thousands of people.
Their souls speak to us, they ask us to look inward, to take stock of who we are and what we might become, he said.The president delivered his speech at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima after he laid a wreath of memorial at the and met with survivors of the nuclear attack.Obama wrestled with mankind history of using science and technological innovation to destroy each other, asserted that the nuclear bombs that ended World War II proved the horror that mankind possessed the means to destroy itself.
Yet, in the image of a mushroom cloud that rose into these skies we are most starkly reminded of humanity s core contradiction, he said.He argued that it was time for the United States and other countries with nuclear weapons to disarm their stockpiles.
We must have the courage to escape the logic of fear and pursue a world without them, he said.
Via: Breitbart News