Horror struck once again on Sunday as police officers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana were gunned down on in the line of duty.
Just days before his tragic death, one of the slain officers wrote these emotional words on Facebook about living his life as both a cop and a black man in America.Montrell Jackson, 32, wrote his post on the social media site on July 8, following the killing of five police officers in Dallas, Texas and the fatal police shootings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile.
I swear to God I love this city, but I wonder if this city loves me, wrote the 10-year veteran of the police force.
He then spoke of the troubling dichotomy he faced as an officer of the law and an African-American man living in America.
In uniform, I get nasty hateful looks, and out of uniform some consider me a threat.
I ve experienced so much in my short life and these last 3 days have tested me to the core.
According to local newspaper reports, Jackson was injured in 2007 while trying to rescue a toddler from a burning building.
His own son had just been born.
I ve experienced so much in my short life and these last 3 days have tested me to the core.
When people you know begin to question your integrity you realize they don t really know you at all all.
Look at my actions they speak LOUD and CLEAR, he said.Friends and family describe him as a gentle giant and a protector.
Darnell Murdock, a friend of Jackson s, said his whole goal as an officer of the law was to make you have a better day.
He was humble, kind and sweet, said Murdock.
He wasn t on there to write tickets.
I don t understand how this could happen to someone like him.
In his post, he begged his friends not to succumb to the hate taking over the nation and dividing us.This city MUST and WILL get better, he wrote.
I m working in these streets so any protesters, officers, friends, family or whoever, if you see me and need a hug or want to say a prayer.
I got you.
You can read his emotional post in its entirety here:Heartbreaking Facebook post from Montrell Jackson, one of the cops killed today.
(via @ChristeeAtwood) #BatonRouge pic.twitter.com/GgW5LdCct4 justin kanew (@justin_kanew) July 17, 2016Featured image via Twitter