Donald Trump thinks conservative icon William F. Buckley would oppose the National Review s attack against him.
William F. Buckley disagreed 16 years ago.Earlier this week, the National Review launched an all-out assault against Donald Trump, branding him a charlatan who isn t a real conservative.
Virtually every Republican presenting himself to voters swears so-help-me-God that he is a conservative, wrote Brent Bozell among multiple other writers for the publication.
Enter Donald Trump, not just with policy prescriptions that challenge the cynical GOP leadership but with an attitude of disdain for that leadership precisely in line with the sentiment of the base.
Many conservatives are relishing this, but ah, the rub.
Trump might be the greatest charlatan of them all.
In response, the billionaire Republican presidential wannabe took to Twitter to blast the National Review and he invoked its founder William F. Buckley, claiming that Buckley would be disappointed in his creation.National Review is a failing publication that has lost it s way.
It s circulation is way down w its influence being at an all time low.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 22, 2016Very few people read the National Review because it only knows how to criticize, but not how to lead.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 22, 2016The late, great, William F. Buckley would be ashamed of what had happened to his prize, the dying National Review!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 22, 2016The only problem with Trump s use of William F. Buckley as a defense is that Buckley actually wrote down what he thinks of Trump and the prospect of him running for office as a conservative candidate.
As it turns out, Buckley slammed Trump 16 years ago and predicted this very scenario that Trump is playing out today.
Look for the narcissist, Buckley wrote in 2000.The most obvious target in today s lineup is, of course, Donald Trump.
When he looks at a glass, he is mesmerized by its reflection.
If Donald Trump were shaped a little differently, he would compete for Miss America.
But whatever the depths of self-enchantment, the demagogue has to say something.
So what does Trump say?
That he is a successful businessman and that that is what America needs in the Oval Office.
There is some plausibility in this, though not much.
The greatest deeds of American Presidents midwifing the new republic; freeing the slaves; harnessing the energies and vision needed to win the Cold War had little to do with a bottom line.
In the final analysis, just as the king might look down with terminal disdain upon a courtier whose hypocrisy repelled him, so we have no substitute for relying on the voter to exercise a quiet veto when it becomes more necessary to discourage cynical demagogy, than to advance free health for the kids.
That can come later, in another venue; the resistance to a corrupting demagogy should take first priority.In short, William F. Buckley would be horrified that Trump is so far ahead in the Republican primary polls and would be disappointed that the conservative movement has become an anti-intellectualism and anti-science base of stupid people.
And with Sarah Palin endorsing Donald Trump, it stands to reason that if Buckley were still alive, he d die of embarrassment, but not before using his command of language to tell the new conservative base to go f*ck themselves.Featured Image: YouTube