If there s someone who has always stood up for the rights of women, it s Hillary Clinton.
In fact, it s been pretty much her life s work.
So, when a robotic, mansplaining candidate like Republican Sen. Marco Rubio decided he would throw jabs at Clinton and her stance on abortion rights, as well as abortion rights in general, she did not hold back her opinion of the Florida Senator.On ABC s This Week she said: It s really quite sad to see what Senator Rubio is becoming in this campaign.
Everybody understands that he is diving as far right as he possibly can.
I ve been on record for many years about where I stand on abortion, how it should be safe and legal.
And I ve had the same position that I ve had for a very long time.
But what s really going on here is an effort by the Republicans to keep pushing as far as they can to overturn Roe v. Wade, to defund Planned Parenthood, to make accusations and attacks that are really extreme It s just so unfortunate that politicians like Senator Rubio are trying to politicize these kinds of concerns and I don t think he should be allowed to get away with that.
Rubio had stated that Clinton would support abortion even on the due date of that unborn child during Saturday night s GOP debate.While appearing on CBS Face the Nation Clinton reiterated her disgust in his comments, saying: I think it s pretty pathetic.
This is something that illustrates how Senator Rubio has just been going as far as he can to try to, I guess, buttress his credentials with certain parts of the Republican constituency.
I ve been on record for years about where I stand on making abortions safe and legal, the exceptions that are appropriate that should be looked into.
And the very difficult choices that very few women have to confront that lead to excruciating kinds of decisions.
Decisions Rubio, sans uterus, will never have to face.It s disgusting that women and their reproductive rights are politicized each and every election cycle, because it s pretty much they only social issue the GOP has left to get people to the polls, especially now that marriage equality is law of the land.What a woman does with her body is her decision, and her decision alone.
No ifs, ands or buts about it.
And unless these Republican men are cool with restrictions for their bodies as well, they better STFU.Hillary Clinton calls Rubio's comments on her abortion stance "pathetic" & an attempt to "buttress his credentials" https://t.co/u7wY0TcpCn Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) February 7, 2016Video/Featured image: CBS News