When Ellen DeGeneres found out that Donald Trump watched Finding Dory as his immigration ban was causing worldwide chaos, she used it as a teaching moment.On Friday, Trump signed an unconstitutional executive order banning people traveling from seven countries from entering the United States.
International outrage ensued as people and governments around the globs condemned the ban and protests raged across the country.On Sunday, Trump watched the Disney/Pixar film in the White House as the protests continued and apparently learned nothing from watching it.So on Tuesday, DeGeneres told Trump what he should have learned.
I don t get political, so I m not gonna talk about the travel ban, DeGeneres began.
I m just gonna talk about the very nonpolitical, family-friendly, People s Choice Award-winning Finding Dory.
DeGeneres explained that the character of Dory lives in the ocean near Australia, but she decides to travel to America to find her parents, whom she remembers after getting her memory jogged.
Dory and her friends reach California, only to find a wall standing in their way and they proceed to do what is necessary to get around the obstacle.Finding Dory is about a fish named Dory and Dory lives in Australia.
These are here parents.
They live in America.
I don t know what religion they are but her dad sounds a little Jewish.
Doesn t matter!
Dory arrives in America with her friends Marlin and Nemo and she ends up at the Marine Life Institute behind a large wall.
They all have to get over the wall and you won t believe it but that wall has almost no effect in keeping them out.
Even though Dory gets into America, she gets separated from her family.
Other animals help Dory animals that don t even need her, animals that don t have anything in common with her.
They help her even though they re completely different colors because that s what you do when you see someone in need.
You help them.Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, walls are a main obstacle throughout the movie, but the characters find a way to circumvent them every time, just as immigrants are going to circumvent Trump s massive and expensive wall along the southern border.As the Berlin Wall teaches us, people will find a way no matter how deadly the risks are.At least 5,000 people entered West Germany across the heavily guarded wall to escape the tyranny of the Soviet Union.
138 people died trying.If people are desperate enough, they will find a way to live in America.
Travel bans and walls will not stop immigrants and refugees from seeking a better life for themselves and their families.Featured image via screenshot