On Sunday, Van Jones appeared on CNN s State of the Union where he referred to Donald Trump as a Superpredator.
The phrase is a racialized code word that was aimed at crystallizing the public s opinion to support tougher sentences for criminals in the 1990 s. Jones lambasted Trump for his violently misogynistic comments towards women.
I want to say a couple things.
First of all, this is the law and order candidate, Jones said to the show s panel.
Let s not forget, this is Mr. Law and Order, who is now on tape confessing to a crime.
He s confessing to sexual assault.
The problem isn t the talk, the problem isn t the bad words, the problem is the bad deeds.
He s saying he feels he has the right as a star to sexually assault women.
Jones then went on to recall the time that Trump worked to get five black boys charged with sexual assault.
Those boys turned out to be innocent.
They have become known as the Central Park Five.
The irony of all this and how it relates to Trump s current situation was not lost on Jones.
Now, the irony here is this for me this man came on to the scene politically in New York City attacking five innocent black boys accusing them of what?
Sexual assault.
He comes on the scene.
He says these five boys committed sexual assault and they were innocent.
He never apologized!
He said Mexican immigrants are rapists, sexual assaulters.
It turns out the sexual assaulter, the superpredator is the man running for president!
We have a superpredator named Donald Trump.
I want to challenge the media now: put up the pictures of those five young innocent black boys and Donald Trump and ask America, Who is a thug here?
Who is a thug?
It s Donald Trump.
Jones recently appeared in Netflix original documentary 13th.
In the documentary, Jones explains how Trump has held consistently racist views that have been used to support mass incarceration efforts in the U.S.
It is an excellent documentary that everyone in the U.S. absolutely MUST SEE.
As Jones explains in the interview and the film, Trump is a dangerous man who uses coded language to advance his racist agenda.
He brags that he would have had five innocent boys executed for a crime they did not commit.
At the time, Trump even paid top dollar for a full page ad urging New Yorkers to bring back the death penalty in order to have the Central Park Five be given a capital punishment sentence.
You can watch a clip from the segment below.
Featured image from video screenshot