PBS host Judy Woodroof asked Hillary if she believed President Trump is racist?
Hillary pauses for effect and then delivers her very scripted answer to Woodruff: Here s what I believe, I believe that he has given a lot of encouragement and rhetorical support to the Ku Klux Klan, he accepted the support of David Duke.
Hillary knowingly pushed the lie that Trump accepted the support of KKK member David Duke.
It s the same lie she s been peddling since Trump became her opponent in the presidential race, even though she knows there isn t one shred of evidence or proof to back up her sick claim.
Her answer to Woodruff is nothing more than a lame attempt to pin Trump a false allegation on our sitting President while deflecting from the truth about her ACTUAL ties to the KKK.
Watch Hillary attempt to paint President Trump as a racist .When President Trump was dropping out of the Reform Party primary in 2000, he clearly condemned David Duke during an interview with Matt Lauer.When pressed by Matt Lauer on why he saw the Reform Party as self-destructing, Trump commented: Well, you ve got David Duke just joined, a bigot, a racist, a problem, I mean, this is not exactly the people you want in your party.
Watch Trump s 2000 interview with Lauer here:What Hillary Clinton didn t mention to Judy Woodruff during her interview, was that her presidential campaign received more than $20,000 in donations contributed by members of the Ku Klux Klan.
Vocativ reported that a prominent member of the hate group Will Quigg of the California Grand Dragon for the Loyal White Knights said, For the KKK, Clinton is our choice .
Mr. Quigg, the leader of the Klan s California chapter, announced last month that he had abandoned supporting Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump in lieu of backing his likely Democratic opponent.
The Klansman claims that members have raised more than $20,000 for Mrs. Clinton and have donated it anonymously to her campaign.
She is friends with the Klan, Mr. Quigg told Vocativ.
A lot of people don t realize that.
Hillary never made any secret of her love and admiration for her mentor, the late Klan leader Democrat Senator, Robert Byrd.In a video uploaded to the State Department s official YouTube page on June 28, 2010, Clinton commemorated late Sen. Byrd by saying, Today our country has lost a true American original, my friend and mentor Robert C. Byrd.