According to Fox News viewers, that dastardly President Barack Barry Obama Hussein Soetoro Bin Laden is singlehandedly eliminating the Republican Party.
On Friday, Fox reported that middle-aged white people now account for a third of U.S. suicides.This is, of course, no laughing matter.
Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the United States.
Fox notes that the rate of suicides in our country have risen 24 percent in the past 15 years.
But the focus of the report, of course, was regarding white people:Suicides have long been most common among white people particularly older white males.
But most striking in the new report is the growth in whites ages 45 to 64.They were a third of suicide deaths in 2014, up from about a quarter in 1999.
The findings in this report are extremely concerning, said Nadine Kaslow, an Emory University researcher and past president of the American Psychological Association.The CDC data released Friday provides a detailed look at the latest year s suicide statistics, and a broader look at how much the situation has changed over 15 years.There were nearly 43,000 U.S. suicides in 2014.
More than 14,000 of them were middle-aged whites twice the combined total for all blacks, Hispanics, Asians, Pacific Islanders, American Indians, and Alaska Natives.In other terms a group that represents 18 percent of the U.S. population accounted for 33 percent of the suicides.No one knows why aging white people are killing themselves at such an alarming rate, though the report mentions that middle age can be a particularly hard time for whites, who don t have as many supportive relationships with friends, family, or religious communities as other demographics.
But not to worry the geniuses who pay attention to Fox for anything more than comic relief have some ideas.
One idea, anyway.
Obama.
Of course.
Is Obama forcing older white people to kill themselves?
Is this part of his plan to eliminate the white race, as some Trump supporters have alleged?
Suicide is many things.
It s a very real issue affecting millions of American families.
It s an issue that needs to be addressed.
It s sad.
It is not a joke, and it is certainly not something that anyone in their right mind would blame on the President of the United States.But, of course, this is the Fox crowd we re talking about here.
What else can we expect?Featured image via Getty Images/Robert Spencer (modified)