Donald Trump has had a rocky relationship with the press ever since his presidential campaign, and he s only punished them further for trying to report the truth since becoming the President-elect.On Monday, Trump was set to have an off the record meeting with television networks to try and hash out presidential press access.
This meeting was particularly important because Trump has previously limited press access, and has ditched two protocol press pools since getting elected.Some reporters in attendance were NBC s Deborah Turness, Lester Holt and Chuck Todd; ABC s James Goldston, George Stephanopoulos, David Muir and Martha Raddatz; CBS Norah O Donnell and Charlie Rose; Fox News Bill Shine, Jack Abernethy, Jay Wallace, Suzanne Scott; MSNBC s Phil Griffin; and CNN s Jeff Zucker and Erin Burnett.
It was a good group, and it could have been a very effective meeting if only things had gone according to plan.Unfortunately, instead of having a respectful conversation and coming up with an amicable way to move forward, what the press got was a baby Trump temper tantrum of epic proportions.
Or, as one person put it, It was like a f*cking firing squad.
Trump made zero attempt to hide his disrespect for the media.
According to The New York Post, one anonymous source said: The meeting was a total disaster.
The TV execs and anchors went in there thinking they would be discussing the access they would get to the Trump administration, but instead they got a Trump-style dressing down.
This claim was backed up by another person, who said: The meeting took place in a big board room and there were about 30 or 40 people, including the big news anchors from all the networks.
Trump kept saying, We re in a room of liars, the deceitful dishonest media who got it all wrong.
He addressed everyone in the room calling the media dishonest, deceitful liars.
He called out Jeff Zucker by name and said everyone at CNN was a liar, and CNN was network of liars.
This attack left reporters stunned, and even as they tried to keep bringing up press access to stay on topic, Trump barely let them speak.
While this is certainly shocking, this behavior is completely typical of Trump.
He has always hated the free press because it has held him accountable and reported on his mistakes and shortcomings.Americans on social media are already coming to terms with how terrifying this is:TwitterTwitterTwitterInterestingly enough, Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway had the nerve to say the meeting went well.
She said: Excellent meetings with the top executives of the major networks.
Pretty unprecedented meeting we put together in two days.
Disgraceful.Featured image by Christopher Furlong via Getty Images