As part of his presidential campaign, Donald Trump has made a frightening new attack on multiple religions within the United States and many in the media haven t even noticed it yet.Trump referenced the new, frightening vision he has for religion in the country in a speech he gave in Baltimore on Monday.
We will be one people, under one God, saluting one American flag, he said Monday at a speech to the National Guard Association in Baltimore.
Moments before, he claimed he d be a president for all Americans in an effort to portray himself as more of a uniter than his rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton.Trump s under one God line may sound like boilerplate presidential campaign rhetoric, even if it is a bit, um, Hitlerian.
(The Nazi Party slogan was Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Fuhrer!
or, One people, one empire, one leader! )
But the inclusion of the word one is new.
A review of transcripts suggests he debuted it last Tuesday during a speech in Greenville, North Carolina, and has since used it in campaign speeches in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Pensacola, Florida; and Washington, D.C.Based on Trump s claims that he is a Christian and the history of the Republican Party, it would probably be safe to say that Trump s one God is the Christian God.
But in America, based on the First Amendment to the Constitution, the free exercise of religion is enshrined in our customs.
Among those non-Christian religions practiced in America are Judaism, Buddhism, Islam, Hindu, and many others.
There is also agnosticism and atheism, both also protected under the Constitution.Trump has also demonstrated hostility towards one faith in particular Islam.
He has promised to ban Muslim migration to the United States and has expressed openness to using tracking devices on Muslims.Connected to this new attack, Trump recently spoke at an event designated by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group conference.
Among the headliners at the Values Voter Summit was the Family Research Council, who has compared being gay to drug use, and adultery and has compared gay rights activists to terrorists.Featured image via Flickr