Just a few days before election day, Donald Trump s dangerous supporters are ramping up their intimidation and fear tactics and it s truly getting out of hand.On Tuesday night, a historically black church in Mississippi was vandalized by these racist Trump lovers.
The church was not only set on fire, but it was vandalized with graffiti that said, Vote Trump making it clear that the crime was influenced by the Republican nominee s hateful, divisive rhetoric.
Greenville Mayor Errick Simmons has called what happened to the Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church a hateful and cowardly act and said: It is being investigated as a hate crime.
This is a direct assault on people s right to freely worship.
We are going to investigate the matter with all deliberate speed and will not rest until the perpetrator is arrested and prosecuted.
TwitterTwitterAccording to Simmons, the fire is being investigated in a joint effort by the the Greenville Fire and Police Departments, the local district attorney and the Washington County Sheriff s office, in addition to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives and the Jackson branch of the FBI.
A suspect has not emerged as of yet, but luckily no one was injured in the fire.Simmons said the fire affected the main sanctuary of the church, which sustained heavy fire and smoke damage.
The pastor s study and kitchen were also ruined.
Simmons has been in communication with Pastor Clarence Green and some of the members.
He said: He is doing as well as well as one can be doing to come and see his church engulfed in flames.
Last night he interestingly had a positive message to say that we cannot solve hate with hate.
We gotta love, and just rely on God.
Meanwhile, many Americans are noting that Trump s increasingly hateful messaging is having devastating consequences.TwitterTrump has not yet responded to what his supporters did to the black church, yet he was sure to tweet about two police officers in Iowa that were recently killed.Featured image via Angie Quezada and Drew Angerer / Getty Images