Trump s choice of pro-oil, pro-fracking, anti-big government, outspoken conservative and former Texas Governor Rick Perry for secretary of energy is sure to ruffle the feathers of leftists environmentalists not just in America, but around the world Rick Perry, President-elect Donald Trump s choice for Energy secretary, has close ties to the Texas oil industry and has corporate roles in two petroleum companies pushing to get government approval for the proposed 1,200-mile crude oil pipeline that has stoked mass protests in North Dakota.Perry s current roles as board director at Energy Transfer Partners LP and also at Sunoco Logistics Partners LP, which jointly developed the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline project, is a strong indicator of the pro-oil industry sentiment that will likely take root at the Energy Department under his oversight.
Perry is close to Texas energy industry executives, and his political campaigns, including two aborted presidential campaigns, benefited substantially from their donations.Trump announced his choice of Perry in an early morning release Wednesday from Trump Tower in New York.He called Perry one of the most successful governors in modern history, having led Texas through a sustained period of economic growth and prosperity by developing the state s energy resources and infrastructure, and making low-cost energy available to companies and families.
It is a tremendous honor to be selected to serve as Secretary of Energy by President-elect Trump, Perry said.
I am deeply humbled by his trust in me.
Perry s close relations with energy executives and his long-time dependence on them for political contributions signal an abrupt change of course at the Energy Department.
Perry is expected to welcome the four-state pipeline and similar projects, set an open-door policy for oil industry interests and possibly tear down the department altogether.
FOX 5As he said farewell to the Texas Legislature in January 2015, Rick Perry couldn t help but reflect on how energy technology and policy had transformed the state s landscape and fueled its economy during his record 14 years as governor.
Today, horizontal slant drilling is tapping oil and gas fields unreachable just a few years ago, he said, going on to scold New York for banning hydraulic fracturing.
In Texas, we have chosen jobs.
We have chosen energy security, and we will one day end America s dependence on hostile sources of foreign energy.
Although Texas longest-serving governor was, perhaps unsurprisingly, pro-oil and gas during his tenure, he didn t simply nod to those iconic, staple fuels: You can be proud that Texas produces more energy from wind turbines than all but five countries, he said.Indeed, Perry, left a nuanced energy legacy including overseeing booms in fossil fuels and renewables during his time in Austin.
(Texas is now the No.
1 U.S. producer of both natural gas and wind energy.)
Now, he is poised to take his experience to Washington, where President-elect Donald Trump has chosen him as U.S. secretary of energy.
The appointment would mark a full repair in Perry s relationship with Trump, whom he called a cancer on conservatism last year while the two men were in a crowded field for the Republican presidential nomination.If confirmed, Perry would become the third Texan to land that job, which involves overseeing energy research and policy with ramifications on the economy, environment and national security.
And he would certainly bring different perspective and background to the role than his two predecessors nuclear physicist Ernest Moniz and Physics Nobel laureate Steven Chu.Environmentalists and others question Perry s qualifications to lead the massive federal agency, particularly because he called for its elimination during his first unsuccessful presidential bid five years ago.
While they concede that he championed renewables during his tenure, they also describe a more fervent support for traditional fossil fuels.
TX Tribune