If you watched this live, you had to be loving Sarah Sanders.
She was on fire!APRIL RYAN BROUGHT UP THE TWEET FROM POTUS (see below) earlier today that has gotten so much attention from the left.
The liberal media went crazy when President Trump tweeted that Senator Gillibrand would come to his office and do anything to get a donation from him.Fast forward and you have April Ryan trying to get in the gutter by claiming Trump s comment was sexist in nature.
Sarah Sanders shot back that you would believe that only if your mind is in the gutter Sarah Huckabee SandersWRECKS Gutter Girl April Ryan Only if your mind is in the gutter would u interpret it that way.
She was referring to saying Senator Gillibrand would do anything for a contribution.
U don't need to read into that.
#PressBriefingpic.twitter.com/sLX90wrDPg STOCK MONSTER (@StockMonsterVIP) December 12, 2017HERE S WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED:Lightweight Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a total flunky for Chuck Schumer and someone who would come to my office begging for campaign contributions not so long ago (and would do anything for them), is now in the ring fighting against Trump.
Very disloyal to Bill & Crooked-USED!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2017Anyone who knows Washington should know that donations do buy access.
It s the truth.SARAH SANDERS JUST SHUT DOWN CNN S JIM ACOSTA IN AN EPIC BACK AND FORTH: I M NOT FINISHED Sarah Huckabee Sanders was hot today when she went off on CNN s Jim Acosta over the fake news that s been constant the past few days.
Jim Acosta also would not be quiet so Sanders had to get loud and forceful: I m not finished Sanders was making a point about reporters making a mistake vs when they report fake news on purpose There is a big difference.Go Sarah!
There s a big difference between making honest mistakes and purposely misleading the American people something that happens regularly.
Sarah Huckabee SandersFox News Insider reports:White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders battled CNN reporter Jim Acosta, accusing the mainstream media of purposefully putting out false information.As he began a question, Acosta told Sanders at Monday s press briefing that journalists make honest mistakes and that doesn t mean it s fake news.
Sanders started to answer but Acosta and another reported interjected.
I m sorry.
I m not finished!
she countered.
There s a very big difference between making honest mistakes and purposefully misleading the American people, something that happens regularly, she shot back.Acosta asked for an example of a story that was intentionally false and meant to mislead Americans.Sanders called out the false report by ABC News Brian Ross on former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, which earned Ross a four-week suspension.She called it very telling that Ross was suspended.
Acosta kept pushing Sanders to let him ask his original question about allegations of sexual misconduct against President Trump, but she refused.