Ever since Donald Trump s true character was revealed in his presidential campaign, his racism, bigotry and misogyny has easily convinced Americans that he is without question one of the most evil, revolting human beings this country has ever seen.
Thanks to Marvel Comics, Trump is finally going to be portrayed for who he really is a villain.Marvel Comics has transformed The Donald into an orange-faced villain with tiny hands, hilariously named M.O.D.A.A.K.
(aka Mental Organism Designed As America s King) in the publication Spider-Gwen Annual #1.
The comic is set in an alternate universe where Peter Parker s girlfriend, Gwen Stacey, was the one bitten by a radioactive spider instead of him.The brilliant minds behind this masterpiece are Jason Latour, Chris Visions, and Jim Campbell, who released the comic just this week.
In Spider-Gwen, Trump is pretty much doing exactly what he does every day as the Republican Party s presidential candidate act like an egotistical bigot.
Trump s character is seen bossing a minion around, calling him derogatory names such as foreign filth and announcing If America will not act, M.O.D.A.A.K.
must!
as he tries to rule America.
True to Trump s character, his rival ends up being Captain America who is portrayed as a woman.Here are just a few of the amazing panels:MarvelMarvelYou can watch a report on Trump s comic book alter-ego below:It just so happens that Trump has played the role of a villain before several times.
At last year s New York Comic-Con, io9 went to Artist s Alley at the Javits Center to have Trump drawn into various bad guys one of them was Modok.
And in Issue No.
1 of Steve Rogers: Captain America, there was a character named Red Skull that gave a hateful anti-immigration speech that could have been taken directly from one of Trump s speeches.
Calling for a race war, Red Skull said: I have just come from Europe my homeland, in fact.
And do you know what I saw there?
It was an invading army.
These so-called refugees millions of them marching across the continent, bringing their fanatical beliefs and their crime with them.
They attack our women, and bomb our cities.
And how do our leaders respond?
Do they push them back and enforce the borders, as is our sovereign duty?
Of course not.
They say, Here, take our food.
Take our shelter.
Take our way of life, and then take our lives.
Despicable.
Trump as a villain was clearly meant to be.Featured image via screenshots