Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid has it out for Republican nominee Donald Trump.On Thursday on the Senate floor, Senator Reid (D-Nev.) unleashed a rant against the business mogul with a bitterness that makes you wonder just how long he had been holding it in.
Reid is approaching retirement as January draws near, and it s clear that the Democratic leader wants America to understand just how important it is to make sure that the country isn t left in Trump s little, orange, greedy hands.Making reference to a Newsweek article that questions the Trump Organization s international business ties and suggests that a President Trump could be disastrous for national security, Reid called Trump a spoiled brat and a notorious con artist whose questionable, scammy business practices would only spill over into his administration if he becomes President.
Reid said: Let s be clear about Donald Trump.
He s a spoiled brat, raised in plenty, who inherited a fortune, used his money to make more money, and he did a lot of it by swindling working men and women.
Why would he change as president?
The answer is simple.
Trump won t change.
He is asking us to let him get rich scamming America.
Donald Trump is only trying to help one person Donald Trump.
If given the opportunity, Donald Trump will turn America into a big scam, just like Trump University.
Reid also raised some eyebrows by calling Trump a human leech.
Trump is a human leech, who will bleed the country and sit at his golf resort laughing at the money he has made.
You can watch Reid s amazing anti-Trump rant below: Reid s rant is pretty epic and judging from his other statements about Trump, there s probably many more Trump disses on the way before his retirement.
Just earlier this week, Reid attacked Trump for insulting Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton s health by calling Trump fat and drawing attention to his own unhealthy lifestyle.
Reid said: Take a look at this character that s running for president.
He complains about her health?
What does he do?
He s 70 years old, he s not slim and trim, he brags about eating fast food every day.
Look at his health a little bit.
Let s just say we hope Harry Reid keeps this up!Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images