In the days following the massacre at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Donald Trump has tried to claim that he is a better ally to LGBT Americans than Hillary Clinton.
Trump said: Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists into our country and who suppress women, gays and anyone else who doesn t share their views or values.
But a few months ago, Trump posed for a photo alongside Robert Jeffress, a right-wing pastor who is notorious for being anti-LGBT.
In the photo, tweeted by Trump, the two men stand next to each other with their thumbs up.Honored to pray for my friend, @realDonaldTrump, at tonight's Dallas rally.
#TrumpDallas c: @DanScavino pic.twitter.com/BcgWuszPnu Dr. Robert Jeffress (@robertjeffress) June 17, 2016Robert Jeffress, a pastor from Dallas known for his anti-LGBT sentiment, shared a photo in which he posed with Trump at the candidate s rally at Gilley s, the city s famous honky-tonk.
Honored to pray for my friend, @realDonaldTrump, at tonight s Dallas rally, Jeffress tweeted, along with a photo in which they both held their thumbs up.
Trump retweeted the image on Friday.Jeffress has pushed rhetoric on gay people eerily similar to that espoused by extremist groups like ISIS.The First Baptist Church pastor in February 2015 was quoted as saying the gay rights movement will pave the way for that future world dictator, the Antichrist, to persecute and martyr Christians without any repercussions whatsoever.
Jeffress last month celebrated his state s leaders decision to refuse to comply with President Barack Obama s directive to create more accessibility for transgender students in public schools, saying it s time for an all-out rebellion against this absolute tyranny of the Obama administration.
In reality, anti-LGBT rhetoric has been the norm within Republican politics.
All the leading candidates for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination were connected to the anti-LGBT movement, most blatantly Senator Ted Cruz, but the practice spread to the entire party.While Democrats dragged their feet to become completely in favor of LGBT equality, the party is also the first to nominate a presidential candidate President Obama who supported same-sex marriage.
By contrast, the notion of repealing the right to same-sex marriage is still popular within the Republican party.Featured image Joe Raedle/Getty Images