By winning the presidency, Donald Trump just made the world more unsafe than ever before.Any anti-America groups who want to punish the United States and send a message to Trump can easily do so by targeting Trump s hotels and resorts around the globe.And they will be easy targets, too, because they all have Trump s name on them.Donald Trump is about to become the face of the United States.
As horrifying as that is, Joy Reid explained during Meet The Press on Sunday that terrorists can now provoke Trump and challenge the United States by attacking buildings with his name on them.
You start to have anything with a Trump name on it around the world becoming an instant terrorist target, Reid said.
How do we react to a world in which the name of the president of the United States is plastered all over hotels and hot spots?
Indeed, this is yet another reason why Donald Trump should sell his company.
Continuing to own it places thousands of people around the world at serious risk.
Hotels have been a prime target of terrorists for years, and Trump becoming president gives terrorists a new target.
If President Bush or President Obama had had hotels with their names on them in other nations you can bet terrorists would have targeted them as well.
But they didn t. Trump, however, does.
And Trump s thin-skin makes him an even better target because these terrorists want the United States to go bankrupt with never-ending wars.
And if anyone will be quick to take America to war anywhere on Earth, it s Donald Trump.Trump s foreign entanglements also make him and our country vulnerable.Reid explained that Trump s foreign business ties could threaten our foreign policy because other nations could seek to re-write our policy by threatening Trump s businesses or calling in a debt.
We cannot discount how his personal conflicts of interest wind up influencing his foreign policy, Reid said.
We don t know to what international banks he is in debt.
We don t know the extent to which his own pecuniary interests might influence his foreign policy, if his children are still running his company and there s a hotel to be built in Dubai, does that influence his reaction if the government of Dubai acts in a way we don t want, in Turkey or other countries.
Here s the video via VidMe.It is absolutely critical that Trump put an end to his conflicts of interest.
And the best way he can do that is to sell his company.
Because any building with his name on it will become a target of terrorism over the next four years and there is not enough security to protect every building he owns.
He owns hotels in Las Vegas, Chicago, and New York City just to name a few in the United States and he owns properties in Turkey, Panama, South Korea, the Philippines, India, Panama, and Uruguay.
Again, just to name a few.So there are literally dozens of targets in the United States and around the world for terrorists to attack and Trump s name will be the bulls-eye.
Terrorists are going to attack these properties to piss Trump off.
And they are hoping Trump will launch war after war in retaliation so that more American treasure is wasted, and more American blood in spilled.Featured Image: Wikimedia