In yet another example of the rash of hate crimes that has accompanied Donald Trump s presidency, a 51-year-old man was arrested Thursday night after opening fire in a crowded bar.
His reason?
Some folks were a little too dark for his taste.Adam Purinton was arrested Thursday just after midnight at an Applebee s in Missouri after he bragged to a bartender that he had shot someone.
He mentioned he had been involved in a shooting and we went out there and picked him up, Assistant Clinton Police Chief Sonny Lynch said, explaining that the restaurant s bartender had contacted law enforcement.
Earlier in the night, Purinton was drinking at Austin s Bar and Grill in Olathe, Kansas.
According to a bartender he began using racial sluts before drawing his weapon and opening fire on Srinivas Kuchibhotla and Alok Madasanim, two regulars at the bar who work as engineers at GPS manufacturer Garmin as well as Ian Grillot, a random bar patron who heroically stepped in to help the men.
From what I understand when he was throwing racial slurs at the two gentlemen (Kuchibhotla and Madasani), Ian (Grillot) stood up for them, bartender Garret Bohnen says.
We re all proud of him.
According to other witnesses, Pruinton yelled get out of my country before opening fire.
Grillot went above and beyond in defending the two victims of this vicious attack.
The Independent reports: Grillot said in an interview from his hospital bed that when the shooting broke out, he hid until nine shots had been fired and he thought the suspect s gun magazine was empty.
I got up and proceeded to chase him down, try to subdue him, Grillot said in a video from the University of Kansas Health System posted on the Star website.
I got behind him and he turned around and fired a round at me.
Grillot said that the bullet went through his hand and into his chest, just missing a major artery.
It s not about where he (victim) was from or his ethnicity, Grillot said.
We re all humans, so I just did what was right to do.
Kuchibhotla died at an area hospital and Madasani and Grillot were taken in for treatment.
They are in stable condition unlike the man who committed this hate crime and his ideological clones.
While it seems pretty clear that this is a hate crime, FBI special agent Eric Jackson explains that it s too early to make that determination.
This was a violent crime and we want the best prosecution that relates to this because there are victims of this crime and we want the community to know that, he says.
We re looking to make sure that the individual involved in this is held accountable for his actions.
Unfortunately, we can expect to see more and more of this as Trump continues to amp up the anti-immigrant rhetoric.
Recently, it was made public that The Donald intends to remove neo-Nazis and other white supremacists from the Countering Violent Extremism program, which will focus solely on Muslims not white almost certainly Christian terrorists like Purinton.This is one act of terrorism that Trump will not mention.Featured image via screengrab