Watching the healthcare bill he staked his entire presidency on flame out in the Senate seems to have broken Trump s brain.
Within 24 hours, he was on Twitter having a spittle-laden meltdown over the negative coverage he s been receiving.
Two articles one by the New York Times and the other by the Washington Post seem to have pushed him over the edge.First, there was the New York Times, which found a number of Senate Republicans willing to call him a moron:Senate Republican leadership has made it known that it would much rather negotiate with Mr. Pence than a president whose candidacy many did not even take seriously during the 2016 primaries.
And some of the White House s efforts have clearly been counterproductive.Then there was the Washington Post, which discovered that Trump had photoshopped a picture of himself onto the cover TIME magazine and hung it in his golf courses.The framed copy of Time magazine was hung up in at least five of President Trump s clubs, from South Florida to Scotland.
Filling the entire cover was a photo of Donald Trump.
Donald Trump: The Apprentice is a television smash!
the big headline said.
Above the Time nameplate, there was another headline in all caps: TRUMP IS HITTING ON ALL FRONTS .
.
.
EVEN TV!
But that wasn t true.The Time cover is a fake.There was no March 1, 2009, issue of Time magazine.
And there was no issue at all in 2009 that had Trump on the cover.So Trump being Trump promptly lost his mind.The failing @nytimes writes false story after false story about me.
They don't even call to verify the facts of a story.
A Fake News Joke!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 28, 2017The #AmazonWashingtonPost, sometimes referred to as the guardian of Amazon not paying internet taxes (which they should) is FAKE NEWS!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 28, 2017Trump s attack on the Washington Post was particularly insane, not just because he seemingly invented the term guardian of Amazon, but that he demanded Amazon pay a non-existent internet tax the price for Amazon s owner also owning the Washington Post.
It s how a particularly nasty dictator in a particularly nasty banana republic might behave.
Hate the message, go after the messenger and everyone the messenger associates with.
It confirms much of what Trump s critics have been saying: Trump is at war with the free press.How will the administration defend Trump s meltdown?
By hiding.
Sean Spicer ran into the metaphorical bushes, quickly releasing a revised press briefing schedule that demanded no cameras be allowed to film.White House briefing today: Off camera with @PressSec pic.twitter.com/fyBLIUmdj5 Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) June 28, 2017When it comes down to it, even Sean Spicer seems to know that the president s actions and comments are indefensible.
He s banking on the fact that if he isn t filmed, perhaps history will forget his humiliating role in this administration.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images