On Sunday, Meet the Press host Chuck Todd revealed more specifics that help make the case that Donald Trump is raking in big money from his campaign or at least his businesses are.During the segment, Todd explains that since much of Trump s lavish campaign spending is being spent buying products his and his family s businesses make, or at properties they own, Trump s found a legal way to funnel campaign contributions back into his private business.
Rachael Maddow first made the case that Trump s campaign was a money making scheme earlier this week.
Now, Todd is making a very similar case, while providing even more examples of Trump s campaign spending.
Todd explained: We ll start with Eric Trump s businesses.
The Trump campaign paid nearly $5,000 to Eric Trump Wine Manufacturing.
It spent over $91,000 to rent out three different Trump golf clubs in Florida for events.
$136,000 to Trump restaurants including Trump Grill and Trump Cafe in Trump Tower.
Over $420,000 to rent Trump s Mar-a-Lago club in Florida.
That also doubles as his vacation home.There s been more than $430,000 of Trump campaign money spent on rent at the Trump Tower.
Of course, it s his Fifth Avenue skyscraper that does double as Trump s campaign headquarters.And the biggest expense of all has been $4.6 million the campaign has paid to Tag Air, which is the name of Trump s private airline.All told, the campaign has spent over $6 million at Trump-owned businesses out of about $63 million spent through the end of May.So 10 percent of all campaign spending has gone back to Trump or Trump affiliated businesses.
Again, none of what Trump is doing is illegal.
Todd also points out that while the world was reacting to Brexit, Trump flew to Scotland to promote his new golf course there hardly offering more than a few idiotic sentiments on one of the biggest political shocks of the 21st century.
That s not something a true presidential candidate would do.
Combined with his campaign s lack of direction and well, a complete lack of campaigning the past month, evidence is quickly piling up that Trump s campaign has never been about anything other than publicity, while making him and his family a ton of money at the same time.You can watch the segment below.Featured image from video screenshot