You know how white supremacists have been calling Trump their God-Emperor?
Apparently, that has gone to The Donald s head, as his DOJ lawyers actually argued that he is completely untouchable by any court and his decisions are absolute.On Tuesday, August Flentje, Special Counsel to the Assistant U.S. Attorney General, was asked a question that should have been an automatic no Does the President have unchecked power?
Are you arguing then that the president s decision in that regard is unreviewable?
Judge Michelle T. Friedland asked Flentje at one point in the Trump administration s attempt to get the Muslim ban back up and running.
To most, the idea of any leader having unlimited and absolute power in any area of the government is frightening, but to the Trump administration it s just the way things should be.Flentje hesitated briefly, then provided a single-word answer that reveals everything you need to know about the mindset of Trump and his team of white supremacists, Christofascists, and other Deplorables: Yes.
Judge Friedland presses DOJ, are you arguing Pres Trump's power here is unrevieable by courts?A: yes#9thCircuit Ari Melber (@AriMelber) February 7, 2017Naturally, Americans are not happy about this:As with GW Bush, Trump's expansive claims of unreviewable executive power will likely lead courts to impose new limits on the President Adam Winkler (@adamwinkler) February 7, 2017Senators must ask Gorsuch if he agrees with the Trump DOJ that the EO travel ban is "unreviewable" by federal courts.
Amy Fried (@ASFried) February 5, 2017Q: Are you arguing Pres Trump's power here is unreviewable by courts?A: Yes.
pic.twitter.com/L4RHXa8YxB Joe (@activistmode) February 7, 2017The "real risk" question.
DOJ Special Counsel basically asserts president's decision is unreviewable #9thCircuit (((Trump Trash))) ?
(@Trumpster_Fire) February 7, 2017Trump says travel ban "unreviewable."
Not true.
I'm reviewing it right now: 0 out of 5 stars.
#ban #travel #TRUMP #TrumpBan #LawandOrder ELMURO (@EL_MURO_QUE_RIE) February 5, 2017he Trump administration s position seems to be that a minority of voters elected with the help of a Russian dictator s hackers and propagandists and a rogue FBI agent a dictator rather than a President.
While campaigning, Trump called himself the law and order candidate.
Apparently, he thinks he is above both.You can listen below:Read more:Featured image via Getty Images (Chip Somodevilla)