As Donald Trump looks like he s going to be leading the Republican Party in the general election, many conservatives are either jumping ship entirely, or at least voicing their disapproval in various ways.
For Katrina Jorgenson, the communications chairwoman of the Young Republicans National Federation, this meant resigning from her position and writing a lengthy Facebook post about why she would never support The Donald.Jorgenson posted the message on Monday afternoon, stating that because her principles would not allow her to get behind Trump s divisive, vulgar rhetoric, she was announcing her resignation.
In the post, she shamed those who supported Trump, and made it clear that this was a major step backwards for the future of the GOP.
She wrote: Regretfully, I am resigning from my position as Communications Chair with the YRNF.
With the practically fulfilled nomination of Donald Trump as our presidential candidate, I can no longer continue to carry out the duties of this position.
My principles will not allow it.
We have been told for years how we are the future of the party, this is our opportunity to seize that future.
But if we have instead decided to uphold a man who does not represent us or our views I cannot participate in that.
Jorgenson didn t hold back she called the business mogul a hateful fascist and called him out on his forever growing list of controversies.
Jorgenson also expressed bitterness that Trump s rise had forced Republicans to compromise their beliefs and principles.
In doing so, she criticized other conservatives for supporting a candidate that was going to destroy the entire Republican Party, and most likely the country if he gets into the White House.
In denouncing the presumptive Republican nominee, Jorgenson stated that there was absolutely no way that she could continue her role in the Young Republicans National Federation and still maintain her dignity, knowing full well that she was going against her values: Many of you may choose to support Trump in order to beat Hillary Clinton, that is your decision.
For me, I cannot support a candidate who endorses bigotry and lawlessness, with a minimal understanding of the fiscal policies long associated with our party, even if he does have an R after his name.
I could not later tell my children I did the right thing, instead I would have to live with allowing my politics to be corrupted.
I cannot stand by and continue to write newsletters and posts that so strongly conflict with my personal values.
I will not surrender my beliefs.This is not the way forward.
I will not quietly fall in line.
I will not give up my principles.
You can read her entire post here, which immediately received praise from like-minded viewers.
Many other #NeverTrumpers were more than happy to back Jorgenson s decision up, telling her that she had done the right thing:FacebookFacebookFacebookFacebookTrump has divided the Republican Party in a major way, and it will likely never be the same again.
And now that the GOP has allowed such a divisive fear mongering idiot to lead their party, Trump is threatening to divide and destroy America the same way.Featured image via Katrina Jorgensen Facebook