Donald Trump s White House is the leakiest in living memory.
This is because the people around him understand that he is incompetent and never should have been president in the first place.
They simply work there to hold things together, not because they like it.
Working for Donald Trump is the hardest job in Washington these days.
To make that worse, Trump is increasingly volatile due to the fact that he now realizes just how much trouble he could be in over the Special Counsel investigation into Russia.When a Trump adviser was interviewed for a Politico article on the Russia scandal and Trump s flirtation with ordering the firing of Special Counsel Robert Mueller, naturally at one point a comparison to President Richard Nixon s Saturday Night Massacre was made.
However, it might be Nixon s ghost that keeps Trump from doing it.
It seems that the orange wannabe president is not oblivious to how Nixonian people think he is.
It has also been pointed out that many lawyers in the modern day Department of Justice likely would not do Trump s bidding, no matter how many people he fired.
Brian Fallon, formerly of the Obama Justice Department and the Clinton campaign says of the situation: I think the Watergate scenario would make most self-respecting lawyers loath to put themselves in the role that Bork ended up playing.
Most career-minded independent lawyers that have high regard for the Justice Department as an institution would be loath to be the modern-day equivalent to Bork.
An unnamed adviser to Trump says that Trump is definitely aware of what such actions would look like.
From Politico:But Trump, too, is cognizant of the comparison to Nixon, according to one adviser.
The president, who friends said does not enjoy living in Washington and is strained by the demanding hours of the job, is motivated to carry on because he doesn t want to go down in history as a guy who tried and failed, said the adviser.
He doesn t want to be the second president in history to resign.
Of course he doesn t want to look like a loser to the entire nation and world.
Trump only got himself elected to prove that he could do it.
He never actually wanted the job, or even believed he could do it.
He just wanted to prove everyone wrong and sit in the Oval Office like some kind of king, lording over everyone.
However, he is quickly learning that the federal government is not the Trump Organization, and that he is not above the law.
The best thing that could happen is for the whole administration to wind up in prison for treason, and we get a new election and elect someone competent to run this great nation.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images