What a hero what a guy what a crazy world we live in today So much for vetting these criminals!AN asylum seeker held up as an example to others when he was signed by AC Milan after arriving in Italy has been exposed as a fraud after he was accused of rape in Germany.Former AC Milan player, Yusupha Yaffa, moved to Germany after being signed by Eintracht Frankfurt and is currently on loan to MSV Duisburg.But after he was arrested in Frankfurt for the attempted rape of a 19-year-old, prosecutors discovered irregularities in his asylum seeker papers in which he claimed to have been 17-years-old.And now it has been revealed that in fact he was an incredible nine years older than he claimed, and instead of being 19 the age in his player paperwork stipulates that he was born on 31 December 1996 he is actually aged 28.When he had applied in Italy in 2009 for asylum after arriving from Gambia, he had claimed that they had been lost and when giving his personal details had apparently not told the truth.In the Italian Gazzetta dello Sport, it was noted that the player had admitted on a Facebook page that he lied.
The magazine quotes him writing: I gave immigration officials at the time in Cuneo (in Northern Italy) a fake date of birth.
Instead of 31 December 1996 I was born on 14th of November 1987.
His parent club Eintracht Frankfurt have posted a 100,000 EUR (75,000 GBP) bail for the player which meant he only spent one night in investigative custody before he was freed pending a trial over the rape allegation.The revelation means that instead of being treated by the juvenile court, his paperwork will now be handed over to the regular court where he will be considered an adult, and could face a much higher sentence if convicted.
As a teenager he would have probably expected a suspended sentence, but as an adult he is likely to get three years if convicted.
Via: UK ExpressHe ll receive a much higher sentence as an adult?
Three years?
That s the punishment for raping in Germany?
Wow!
No wonder rape is such a common occurrence with these refugees.