When CNN held a discussion about the investigation surrounding Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton s use of a private email server, Trump campaign senior adviser Barry Bennett stunned host Kate Bolduan and everyone watching by casually mentioning waterboarding.Bennett said: She has continued to lie about it.
She told us the lawyers signed off on it.
The Inspector General said that s not true.
She said she would cooperate with all the investigations.
She stonewalled the IG and now everyone s taken the fifth.
You couldn t get the truth out of Hillary if you waterboarded her!
Questioning Clinton s honesty is a strange thing coming from an advisor to Trump there is an endless amount of evidence showing Trump lying through his teeth on just about any subject, whether it s denying he said something or fabricating facts.
And physically punishing Clinton is the golden standard for the Trump campaign the presumptive Republican nominee has repeatedly threatened to throw Clinton in jail over her emails.Once Bennett said the word waterboard, Bolduan was nearly speechless, and obviously could not believe what she d just witnessed.
All she could manage to get out was, What?
Bennett shamelessly repeated it for her: You couldn t get the truth out of her with a waterboard.
In complete disbelief, Bolduan said, And you brought in waterboarding!
Hearing this from Bennett is no surprise.
Throughout his entire campaign, Trump has mentioned waterboarding and shown a disturbing interest in torture techniques that are worse than waterboarding .
In March, right after the Brussels terror attacks, Trump said, I d go further.
I d listen to the military people, but I d go further.
And by the way, torture works.
In April, the offensive candidate even said, I love it, I think it s great when he spoke about waterboarding.
And the apple doesn t fall far from the tree Trump s son Eric once said that waterboarding was no different than what happens in frat houses every day.
It s really no wonder why Trump attracts such violent advisors, delegates and voters.You can watch this ridiculous interview below:Featured image via video screen capture