Here s an excerpt from the Advocate, a Louisiana paper on Barack Obama s disappearing act following the Louisiana floods:Sometimes, presidential visits can get in the way of emergency response, doing more harm than good.
But we don t see that as a factor now that flood waters are subsiding, even if at an agonizing pace.
It s past time for the president to pay a personal visit, showing his solidarity with suffering Americans.And if the president can interrupt his vacation for a swanky fundraiser for fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton, as he did on Monday, then surely he can make time to show up for a catastrophe that s displaced thousands.Obama playing golf at Martha's Vineyard with Larry David today Manu Raju (@mkraju) August 18, 2016These pictures of @realDonaldTrump with children at a Houston shelter are fascinating.
This is Trump the Grandpa, who public never sees.
Garrett Haake (@GarrettHaake) September 2, 2017It wasn t long before members of his own team turned on him.
Some of them even called for him to be fired.
Haake had to know that whenever a reporter dares to say something positive about our President, they will pay a heavy price with either their peers and/or their readers.Here are some of the vile responses Haake got in response to his tweet:Of course, you can t be a real leftist unless you find a way to compare President Donald Trump to Hitler:You know who *else* was great with grand-kids?
pic.twitter.com/zA2VC0Cw2x James Doyle (@priusjames) September 2, 2017To which we responded:When you only have 201 followers, but suddenly become popular with leftists for posting pictures of Hitler.
100% FED UP!
(@100PercFEDUP) September 3, 2017Who exactly, do these leftists think are telling or forcing Donald Trump to act a certain way?
So predictable.
He's being forced to act human, and the media eats it up.
SAD!
cathy vogt (@pgdayton) September 2, 2017Sorry to be cynical but this is Trump doing what he *had* to do bc the joke of his first visit.
Trump is doing what he's being told to do.
Jackie Tallarido (@JackieTallarido) September 2, 2017Haake responded to his critics, by trying to explain why he dared to compliment our President :Literally everything any president does in any disaster area is a photo op.
I was only noting how different this one was vs. daily Trump.
Garrett Haake (@GarrettHaake) September 3, 2017God forbid the media normalize President Trump .
If we didn t know better, we d almost believe there was a serious effort to de-normalize President Trump by the Left.Puh-please.
Stop this normalizing.
Peter Chan (@peterchanNYC) September 2, 2017This follower is convinced, President trump and the thousands of people who showed up to see him are only people who are part of his base.
Maybe they haven t seen the results of the election, but Houston voters went for Hillary over President Trump.
Sorry LOLS@Trumpsters, but those are likely Hillary voters who are happy to see a president who cares enough about them to make 2 trips to Texas since the floods turned their lives upside down.The only people he fools with this photo op are his base.
The rest of us know he's doesn't like people or children.
LOLS@Trumpsters (@SusanSaysHi) September 2, 2017Ani Sangye s response was classic liberal, Trump would sexually assault those girls when they grow up.
She must ve been living in another country when Bill Clinton was impeached for lying to a grand jury about having sex in the Oval Office with a 19-yr old intern: Trump would sexually assault those girls when they grow up.
Ani Sangye (@SangyeH) September 2, 2017LOL!
And then there s the leftist who threatens to unfollow anyone who doesn t tow the liberal line:Unfollowing you for the stupidity of this retweet.
There's no evidence he was a good father or husband AND he's ONLY there for rescue PR LarsManwaring (@LManwaring) September 2, 2017What kind of attack on someone with whom a liberal disagrees, would be complete without mentioning FOX News?
Ouch!we re all perfectly aware of Trump the Grandpa: Senile & watches way too much Fox News.
Jason Braatz (@jasonbraatz) September 2, 2017It appears that through it all, Haake maintained a good sense of humor, as he ended his commentary with this tweet:This tweet has elicited responses comparing Trump to Hitler, Stalin and Satan, and several calling for me to be fired.
Thanks everyone.
Garrett Haake (@GarrettHaake) September 2, 2017