Today, the FCC voted to repeal the net neutrality rules that govern internet service providers and how they treat certain websites.
The left, along with major social media sites like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter were all openly opposed to repealing Obama s net neutrality rules.ABC News The five commissioners of the FCC voted along party lines three Republicans to two Democrats to roll back the rules, imposed in 2015 under President Barack Obama.JUST IN: FCC votes 3-2 to repeal Obama-era #NetNeutrality rules.
https://t.co/4VEkXXEf23 pic.twitter.com/M7pYZa4dlT ABC News (@ABC) December 14, 2017The left reacted to their decision with apocalyptic style tweets.Here s a typical leftist reaction on Twitter to the repeal of Obama s net neutrality:Me after finding out #NetNeutrality was repealed.
pic.twitter.com/e7V05o0DJ8 (@exsuzx) December 14, 2017America s most prominent Socialist weighed in on the topic:This is an egregious attack on our democracy.
The end of #NetNeutrality protections means that the internet will be for sale to the highest bidder.
When our democratic institutions are already in peril, we must do everything we can to stop this decision from taking effect.
https://t.co/8GGrJFMdrU Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) December 14, 2017Of course, #VeryFakeNewsCNN lied about the vote:Hey @CNN, absurd headlines like this are why people don't trust you.
pic.twitter.com/dnAL7RM3NK Curtis Kalin (@CurtisKalin) December 14, 2017The public debate over the rules had been heated at times and Thursday s decision came after a brief delay when, on the advice of security, FCC chairman Ajit Pai announced that they would need to take a recess and the hearing room was evacuated.Watch, as the room is cleared during the net neutrality vote:NEW: FCC meeting on net neutrality takes abrupt recess due to security concerns https://t.co/Vxi2egdIqZ pic.twitter.com/sEIW14RmGy CBS News (@CBSNews) December 14, 2017Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai was in the middle of his speech during a hearing on net neutrality Thursday when he was interrupted by security responding to a bomb threat.
I am being advised by security that we are going to have to take a break, Pai calmly told the audience.
Soon after, a security guard could be heard loudly advising everyone in the room both the Commissioners and the public visitors to exit and leave their belongings in the federal agency chambers.Foundation that there was a specific bomb threat.
Another senior official in the room said someone called into the office and said a briefcase was set to explode.The Commissioners and the audience were eventually allowed back in after Federal Protective Services surveilled the area and situation.A bomb threat occurring right during the middle of Pai s testimony is not surprising as public intrigue around the issue of net neutrality has become so intense that many incensed people have resorted to vile, racist actions.
Daily CallerIs This The New Normal For The Left When They Don t Get Their Way?Repeal supporters claimed the rules unnecessarily regulated the industry and impeded upon the free market.Under the rules rescinded Thursday, internet service providers were prohibited from influencing loading speeds for specific websites or apps.
The vote rolled back the policies that treated the internet like a utility and could potentially lead to the creation of different lanes of speeds for websites or content creators willing to pay for them.
Critics worry that those costs could be passed along to consumers.Internet service providers will have to disclose whether they engage in certain types of conduct, such as blocking and prioritization, following Thursday s decision.
They must further explicitly publicize what is throttled and what is blocked, with the information posted on an easily accessible website hosted by the company or the FCC.Repeal is a hallmark victory for the FCC s Republican chairman Ajit Pai whose 11-month tenure has seen him strongly advocate for reduced regulation.
Pai was named FCC chairman in January by President Donald Trump, who has made no secret of his interest in reigning in Obama-era business regulations.In July 2017, net neutrality supporters organized a Day of Action in support of net neutrality regulations; large tech companies like Facebook, Google, and Amazon all showcased their support for the regulations.Net neutrality is the notion that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) shouldn t be able to slow down, speed up, or block data as it is routed from its content originator to end users in order to favor particular sites.
The net neutrality regulations put in place under the Obama administration involved subjecting the Internet to Title II of the 1934 Communications Act, where it s considered a public utility that is subject to the iron grip of the FCC.The FCC is now trying to kill these regulations, and they are right do so.
Here are seven reasons why.1.
The instances of ISPs slowing down or blocking data to favor certain sites over others are few and far between.2.
Under Title II, the Internet is subject to a bevy of regulations at the whim of the FCC.3.
The FCC can also subject ISPs to a slew of taxes under Title II.4.
The FCC also has the power to prevent ISPs from charging websites at rates they deem to be unfair and ends paid priority.
5.
It s a form of censorship.6.
It s crony capitalism in favor of web giants like Facebook and Google.
That s why they support net neutrality, since it targets their competitors.7.
The better way to ensure net neutrality is to breathe more capitalism into the ISP market rather than government control.