Colin Powell is NOT voting for Donald Trump, at least according to emails disclosed by a hacker group to BuzzFeed and on DCLeaks.com, who reported that the leaks came from Russia.The emails reveal that Powell thinks Trump is a national disgrace, and that his campaign is built on racism.
He also has strong opinions on the birther movement, which Trump thoroughly embraced.In an Aug. 21 email from Powell to Miller, he blasted Trump for embarking on a racist movement that believes President Obama was not born in the US.
Yup, the whole birther movement was racist, Powell wrote.
That s what the 99% believe.
When Trump couldn t keep that up he said he also wanted to see if the certificate noted that he was a Muslim.
Powell says that Trump has no chance at the African-American vote:The leak shows that Powell criticized Trump s lack of outreach to black voters, saying there is nothing he can say to convince black Americans to give him their votes, and criticizing the birther movement.
He takes us for idiots, Powell wrote, according to CBS.
He can never overcome what he tried to do to Obama with his search for the birth certificate the whole birther movement was racist.
Source: Huffington PostPowell doesn t think Trump has a much better chance with women, at least not after he aligned himself with disgraced former Fox News head, Roger Ailes, who left after numerous allegations of sexual harassment.
And Ailes as an advisor wont heal women, don t you think?
Powell wrote.The Republican former Secretary of State isn t a Hillary Clinton fan either.The latest email leak reveals Powell also criticized Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for her handling of her email scandal, saying she could have killed this two years ago by merely telling everyone honestly what she had done and not tie me to it, according to The Intercept.Documents released this month as part of the FBI s investigation into Clinton s emails showed Powell had told Clinton to be very careful if she used a Blackberry for email, warning that if her use of a BlackBerry became public knowledge, those emails could become official record[s] and subject to the law.
Powell s only advice seemed to be for the media, which he accused of giving him too much attention.
You guys are playing this game, you are his oxygen.
A spokesman for Powell admits that the emails are legitimate and that Powell was hacked, although, if Powell s people know who did the hack, they aren t admitting it.
As for Powell s advice to Clinton, well, perhaps he should have followed it as well.Featured image via Kris Connor/Getty Images.