A Fox host engaged in some seriously f*cked up wishful thinking on Tuesday and every American should be outraged.Bill O Reilly s original goon with a punchable face Jesse Watters smiled during an episode of The Five as he relished the idea of a terrorist attack in October that would scare voters into flocking to Donald Trump s campaign.
If there s one more terror attack, maybe in October, this is gonna make Trump s plan look a lot more appealing, Watters claimed.Yeah, that s right.
A Trump-supporting Fox host just gave ISIS an idea for how they could seriously interfere with our democratic process.
Watters literally talked about this evil October surprise as if it would be a good thing because it could help the Republican nominee beat Hillary Clinton in November.Fellow host Juan Williams was disgusted by Watters remark and slammed him as anti-American for thinking of such a thing.
Oh my god, what wishful thinking, Williams responded.
Anti-American!
That s unbelievable!
Of course, Watters then played the victim.
Why would you say that that s what I m thinking?
he asked.
How dare you?
Williams demanded to know why Watters would put such a thought out into the world, especially since ISIS is likely watching.
How dare you?
Watters whined again.
It s prudent political analysis, he claimed.
Oh that s what it was.
I see, Williams replied.
I thought it was desperation.
No, I know about October surprises, Watters arrogantly claimed.Here s the video via YouTube.This is about as despicable as it gets.Next month will be the 15th anniversary of the September 11th attacks in which nearly 3,000 Americans perished.
And as ISIS continues to commit attacks around the world, Jesse Watters is thinking about how great it would be for Trump if only a terrorist attack could happen in this country specifically in October with the goal of affecting the outcome of the presidential election.
It s one thing to talk about an October surprise, but Watters got specific and he smiled about it because he thinks it s an opportunity for Trump.
This went beyond simple political analysis.Terrorist attacks kill people.
They are bloody and violent.
There is nothing funny or happy about a terrorist attack, especially at a time when Trump is calling for assassinating Hillary Clinton and claiming that the election is rigged.
This election is tense enough as it is without Watters throwing the thought of a possible terrorist attack into the mix.Jesse Watters is sick and he should apologize to every American who has lost a loved one because of an act of terrorism.
And he should apologize to America as a whole.
Because what kind of American, what kind of human being smiles at the idea of a terrorist attack so that their political party can gain an advantage?
This is unforgivable and Fox News should be ashamed for letting a prick like Watters step foot inside their studio.Featured image via screenshot