It s a trap!
That s the messaging that the Trump campaign has decided to go with when asked about Trump s response to the father of a Muslim man who died while serving as an American Army captain overseas.
It s a narrative that the Trump campaign uses often if Trump says something horrible on camera it s because the media twisted his words.
One of Trump s surrogates, Scottie Nell Hughes, tried to use this tactic during a segment on CNN s New Day on Sunday morning.The father, Khizr Khan, spoke at the Democratic National Convention, where he called out Trump for his proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States.
Khan said during his speech that Trump has sacrificed nothing or no one in his life.Trump, a billionaire, responded by saying: I think I ve made a lot of sacrifices.
I work very, very hard.
I ve created thousands and thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs, built great structures.
I ve had tremendous success.
I think I ve done a lot.
This response came out during an interview with George Stephanopoulos.Hughes says that she was initially disappointed with Trump s comments about Khan.
However, once she realized that the interview was a part of the media s agenda to make Trump look bad, which is apparently something he could never do on his own in the mind of a Trump supporter, she has to tell people the truth it s all a giant media conspiracy.
Now that I ve read the questions and the Trump campaign and others have released the full transcript, you can see what a setup this is.
Which was nothing but to trap Mr. Trump going forward.
The truth is that Trump is trapped.
He is trapped by the vile rhetoric that he has spewed throughout the primary election.
He went full fascist and it is preventing him from being able to effectively pivot more to the middle in order to win the votes he needs to win a general election.Hughes, like many other Trump supporters, are in for a rude awakening when if they are capable of doing so they realize that they backed a losing candidate.You can watch Hughes desperately try to rationalize Trump s horrendous comments below.#Trump to #KhizrKhan "I've made a lot of sacrifices" @VictorBlackwell gets reax from @scottienhughes @asbthelawhttps://t.co/imMsHa8ARQ New Day (@NewDay) July 31, 2016Featured image via video screen capture