Several top Republicans have yet to endorse Donald Trump as the GOP presidential nominee.
On Sunday, Republican National Committee chair Reince Priebus had some strong words for those individuals.
Appearing on CBS Face the Nation, Priebus issued a thinly veiled threat directed towards those who have yet to get on board the Trump bandwagon, which Reince described as one of the biggest movements as far as people across this country in modern history.
The right-wing reactionary movement is missing key GOP politicians such as Ted Cruz and other former presidential hopefuls.
While they may not be considered a part of the #NeverTrump crowd, these GOPers have not really done much of anything to support the current Republican presidential candidate.They all agreed to support the eventual presidential nominee no matter who wins the election, and Priebus is expecting them to put party before country.
We re a private party.
We re not a public entity.
Those people need to get on board, Priebus told the show s host, John Dickerson.
And if they re thinking they re going to run again someday, I think we re going to evaluate the nomination process, and I don t think it s going to be that easy for them.
I think these are things that our party s going to look at in the process.
I think people who gave us their word, used information from the RNC, should get on board.
What s interesting is that Trump has previously dragged his feet when it comes to endorsing other GOP candidates, such as House Speaker Paul Ryan.
It s also interesting to note that the pledge that Priebus is referencing was reportedly designed to discourage Trump from running as an independent or on a non-establishment party campaign.
It has no legal significance and is simply just a promise.The fact that Priebus, had to threaten though he insists that his comments are not a threat top members of his Party show that the GOP is still cracking under the weight of trying to hold up Trump s campaign.
You can watch the video below.Featured image via video screen capture