Many are suggesting that the former comedian, turned militant, leftist activist, Rosie O Donnell needs to be treated by federal authorities like every other American when it comes to being held accountable for her actions.
O Donnell broke the law when she offered to pay two Republican lawmakers for voting against Trump s tax cut bill on Twitter.
Even offering this is illegal.
You are not above the law but I guess you are since the Feds haven't been knocking on your door.
with all these tweets you obviously are not joking.
Androgynous Priest (@AndrogynPriest) December 21, 2017After ex-comedian Rosie O Donnell s meltdown on Twitter before the Senate s big tax vote Tuesday night, President Donald Trump can reasonably direct federal authorities to lock her up and even to take some money out of her fat-ass pockets, which he once infamously cited as a personal goal.Starting a few hours before the legislation passed, O Donnell tweeted:so how about this i promise to give 2 million dollars to senator susan collins and 2 million to senator jeff flakeif they vote NO NO I WILL NOT KILL AMERICANS FOR THE SUOER RICH DM me susan DM me jeff no shit 2 million casheach ROSIE (@Rosie) December 20, 2017Even after another Twitter user, Louise Mensch, replied that O Donnell was irresponsibly advocating bribery, O Donnell doubled down.i disagree it is obvious there is a price corker had one collins tooflake almost brave he crawled out backwards2 million to any GOP senator who votes noon KILLING AMERICANS MILLIONS WITH OUT HEALTH CARE MY GOD HAVE WE NO SO ROSIE (@Rosie) December 20, 2017Federal law addresses O Donnell s actions.18 U.S. Code 201 criminalizes the attempted bribery of federal officials by whoever directly or indirectly, corruptly gives, offers or promises anything of value to any public official with intent to influence any official act.
The penalty?
For Rosie, she could spend up to 15 years in jail, suffer a lifetime ban from elective office and pay up to a cool $12 million:The statute calls for a fine of not more than three times the monetary equivalent of the thing of value, whichever is greater, or imprisoned for not more than fifteen years, or both, and may be disqualified from holding any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States.
In court, O Donnell would probably argue that her attempted bribe was in jest, or perhaps a syndrome of a mental illness.After all, her attorneys would argue, who, while seriously attempting to bribe members of the U.S. Congress would do so in such a reckless, public manner that would all but ensure a conviction?
Daily CallerThe emboldened screwball doubled down on her vile tweets calling for people to rise up against our government and mobilize , to call 911 and again, offered to pay US Senators millions of dollars to vote against tax cuts for working, American families.WE CANNOT SIT AT HOME WHILE THEY ROB OUR NATION YOUR NEIGHBORS HEALTH CARE FOR THE FUCKING MERCERS AND KOCH BROTHERS FUCK THEM RISE UP ROSIE (@Rosie) December 20, 2017She even asked her followers to call 911 to report a fake crime.
There has to be a law against this:call 911 crime in progressUS SENATEthis is too much ROSIE (@Rosie) December 20, 2017What does Rosie mean when she calls on people to mobilize against our government?
Isn t that the same thing as calling for a coup?
Isn t that also considered to be illegal?WHY HAVENT THE MOBILIZE PEOPLE MOBILIZED https://t.co/wEucdcLqoH ROSIE (@Rosie) December 20, 2017And then, she doubled down on stupid with this tweet:heres the thing al i am not looking to give more money to a corrupt system however this bill is criminal i therefore offer 2 million for any GOP senator that votes no to them personally or directed to A NON PROFIT OF THEIR CHOICE no strings attached DO WHATS RIGHT ROSIE (@Rosie) December 20, 2017Here s how a few Twitter users responded:What you just tweeted is criminal check yourself on that !
LaDeplorable (@NenaPacino) December 20, 2017Send that 2 million and any benefit you receive from the tax cuts back to the government.
Better yet, why not go out in the streets of L.A. and find 40 homeless people and give each 50 grand for job training for a career that will change their life 4ever.
D.B.
(@boingboingbong) December 20, 2017