While some of the most important questions about this jihadi couple are being left unanswered, the media is circling the wagons around the Islamaphobia narrative to ensure that no Muslims have hurt feelings.
Syed s parents knew that he was becoming more radical, and one look at that wife could ve told you she wasn t Mary flippin Poppins.
Why did friends and relatives distance themselves from these radicals, but never once bother to contact authorities about their radicalized behavior you know, just in case they might shoot up a Christmas party in an act of workplace violence.
Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik, both devout adherents to the Religion of Peace, are a glimpse into the future of America.
I ve written about the unchecked flood of refugees poised to pour into the United States and the willful blindness of those who ignore the stated intention of those who would do the nation harm to infiltrate that mass of humanity with the intent to cause havoc.
And now, it has begun.Of course, regardless of whether Syrian refugees are allowed in or not, Tashfeen Malik and Syed Farook would have committed the San Bernardino shooting.
Farook was born an American, and Malik was a Pakistani with a K-1 visa; essentially, a mail-order bride.Fianc e visas were bad enough when it was just war brides and gold diggers from the former-Soviet Union countries, but now these bitches are trying to kill people.The ISIS claim of responsibility for the San Bernardino shooting is definitely iffy.
Terrorists aren t known for being the most honest sorts and would claim a tornado tearing through an Oklahoma trailer park as their doing, if they could find the Sooner State on a map.I imagine the State Department will exercise the same sort of diligence and care in vetting all the Syrian refugees as was giving to Tashfeen Malik.
We only have every person who ever came into contact with her saying Malik was a hard-core ideologue with Jihad tendencies.
Attending Al-Huda International Seminary wasn t a tip that she might not be terribly friendly to the United States?Al-Huda is basically post-graduate school for those who hate the great Satan, America.
Oh, by the way, there are campuses in the United States and Canada.
And they offer convenient internet classes for those who would like to learn jihad from the comfort of their own homes.Neither the Saudis nor the Pakistanis want to claim this chick.
Both are pointing at the other and saying, She went rogue on your watch.
That s saying a lot for two countries that are absolutely lousy with terrorists and terrorism to the point it is, at least, their number two export.As the investigation deepens, it s coming out that these two were Jihadis long before ISIS came to anyone s attention.
In the aftermath, there is a litany of friends and family, associates and acquaintances, who had distanced themselves from the Muslim Bonnie and Clyde and did absolutely nothing to tip off the rest of the world that Farook and Malik were becoming dangerous.In the weeks and months to come, I predict a long line of people who knew what was going on.
Not just the neighbors, who harbored strong suspicions, but didn t say anything because they were scared to death of the Liberal Social Justice Warriors letting slip the social media dogs of war against them for being Islamophobes, racists, and all around bigots.What I m talking about are fellow Muslims, who knew damn well they were killers-in-waiting.As I write this, the FBI is putting together enough evidence to arrest Farook s father.
No doubt, his mother will be occupying a jail cell in short order, too.
Regardless one s opinion on laws imposing the duty to report certain crimes, being arrested for failure to report a pending terror attack tells me there is probable cause to believe they possessed the information.Just where is this vast majority of Muslims who abhor what Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik did in San Bernardino?
You know, the ones who supposedly love America and her freedoms.A few representatives of mosques and lawyers for the family have been condemning their act in the week since the shooting spree, but what about the rank-and-file sorts who actually knew them?
Neither was on any sort of watch list or under investigation.
The government had no reason to be keeping tabs on them.
Yet, the very people who were in positions to point them out did nothing.To say Not all Muslims are terrorists, is like saying, Not all Fords explode.
A true statement on its face, but losing sight of the fact that an identifiable sub-group of Fords exploded under the right circumstances.Readers who remember voting for Ronald Reagan at least once probably also remember the fuel tank controversy involving the Ford Pinto.
If you don t, Google it out because I m not your History professor, and you won t understand what I m about to say.There were about 2.7 million Pintos in the United States when Ford initiated their recall in the fall of 1978.
Eventually, 27 deaths that would not have otherwise occurred were attributed to fires subsequent to low-speed, rear-end collisions.
Every model of Ford since has borne the stigma of the Fiery Ford.
I know a guy who still says he drives a Ford Exploder.
Not all Fords explode.
Not all Ford Pintos explode.
Not all Ford Pintos of an identifiable body type explode; it specifically requires addition of a low-speed, rear-ending that also breaches the integrity of the gas tank, along with a spark to ignite the whole mess.
And it helps for the body panels to crumple in just the right way to prevent the doors from opening and trapping the occupants inside.So, tell me again why we are unable to pick out the dangerous Muslims?As coincidence would have it, there are about 2.77 million Muslims in the United States with fourteen dead and twenty-one wounded just last week in San Bernardino.
Is twenty-seven dead bodies the magic number before somebody says, You know, there seems to be an awful lot of people dying when Muslims are around.
Maybe we should stop letting them come here until we get a handle on this problem?
Via: Carlos Cunha