Governor Chris Christie wasted no time after suspending his presidential campaign to swoon over Donald Trump, the clear favorite to win the Republican Presidential nomination, in hopes his support would result in improving his own public image in the Republican Party, with an eye on a position in Trump s presidential administration.On Monday, Governor Chris Christie should have been in New Jersey to attend the funeral of 31-year-old New Jersey State Trooper Sean Cullen, who was killed in the line of duty last week after being struck by a vehicle in response to a highway car fire.
Instead, Governor Christie is ignoring his duties as Governor to be a full-time surrogate for Donald Trumps presidential campaign, as Christie was in Florida campaigning on Trump s behalf.Lt.
Gov.
Kim Guadagno attended the funeral in place of Governor Christie, who referred questions about his scheduling to the Trump campaign, who, not surprisingly, did not reply to the media s requests for comment on the issue.This is the third police funeral Governor Christie has missed since December.
It is disgraceful that a public official elected by the people is ignoring the public servicemen who sacrificed themselves in the line of duty.The president of the state troopers union, Christopher Burgos, criticized Governor Christie for his actions.
We are focused on honoring our fallen brother today, and quite frankly we did not expect someone who has consistently shown disdain for law enforcement to pay his respects to the Cullen and State Police family, said Burgos to Politico New Jersey.
May Sean rest in peace.
A wonderful family.
Tragic, he said.
Gov s decision making is predicated on selfish political opportunism, that much is clear.
1,000 officers attended the funeral to mourn the fallen New Jersey State Trooper.
He orders flags flown at half-mast, but couldn t stay for the funeral?
New Jersey state Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat, told New York Daily News .
It s a choice that symbolizes how he feels about the State of New Jersey.
It isn t even his campaign.
Featured image via Flickr