Bernie Sanders just received a major endorsement in Nevada.
The Clark County Black Caucus announced on Thursday that they have decided to endorse Sanders in the Democratic primary race.
This comes just before the Nevada caucuses are held on Saturday.So cool:RT @DammitPete: @YvetteBWilliams @DJShakespeare @CCDBC @BernieSanders #FeelTheBern pic.twitter.com/wgWBTkewXO Yvette B. Williams (@YvetteBWilliams) February 19, 2016BernieSanders gives @CCDBC a shout out for CCBC endorsement.
We believe in you & new deal for America.
#FeelTheBern pic.twitter.com/r2qp6AXIzy CCBC-NV Black Caucus (@CCDBC) February 19, 2016Clark County is the largest county in Nevada.
With both Sanders and Hillary Clinton working overtime to win over minority voters, this is a huge win for Sanders.
Sanders has not polled as favorably among black voters as Clinton has in the past.The endorsement that came from the CCDC shows just how far Sanders has come in the past few months.
Yvette Williams, chairwoman of the caucus said that the endorsement, wasn t a very difficult decision.
The CCBC released a statement which in which Williams wrote that while Clinton is qualified, their choice to for who they want to be the next president of the United States is Sanders.
Williams writes: With continuing unemployment disproportionately impacting Black Nevadans, over representation in prisons and the justice system, low performing schools, and lack of economic opportunity, we are looking for a President that will dismantle broken systems, and provide access to a new deal.
A leader that will fight for wealth and racial equality, quality universal healthcare and lower prescription costs, debt free college education, jobs for American workers, restore and protect voting rights, and work to end racial injustice.
Your commitment to getting big money out of politics and restoring our government back to its people is an important concern of CCBC members.
Clinton once held a substantial lead over Sanders in Nevada.
That lead is gone as polls show the two candidates tied in a dead heat.
Endorsements from black intellectuals such as Michelle Alexander and Ta-Nehisi Coates (albeit tacit ones) have helped to shine a light on Sanders record for standing up for civil rights.
They along with a strong backlash against several failed attempts by people to try and smear Sanders record, have helped the candidate.A win in Nevada would be a major boost to the Sanders campaign.
Sanders lost to Clinton in Iowa by a hair, in what was a virtual tie.
That coupled with a landslide win in New Hampshire and a win in Nevada would make Sanders the clear front runner of in the Democratic primary.
That might change once again when it comes time for the South Carolina primary.
Featured image from Gage Skidmore [CC BY-SA 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons