The law and order candidate broke the law again.Donald Trump recently declared that he would reverse President Obama s deal with Cuba to reopen diplomatic relations between our two nations after 50 years.
All of the concessions that Barack Obama has granted the Castro regime were done with executive order, which means the next president can reverse them, Trump said earlier this month.
And that is what I will do unless the Castro regime meets our demands.
Those demands include freeing political prisoners and expanding religious liberty.That s funny, because the Republican nominee certainly didn t give a shit about either of those things when he violated the United States embargo against Cuba back in 1998.A Newsweek investigation revealed:A company controlled by Donald Trump, the Republican nominee for president, secretly conducted business in Communist Cuba during Fidel Castro s presidency despite strict American trade bans that made such undertakings illegal, according to interviews with former Trump executives, internal company records and court filings.Trump s company spent a total of $68,000 for the trip to meet with government officials, bankers, and businessmen in order to gain a foothold on the island just in case the American government ended the embargo.
But Trump broke the law and he tried to cover up his crime by funneling the money to a consulting firm and making it look like a charitable effort.In 1999, Trump traveled to Miami for the first day of his presidential run as the Reform Party candidate and hypocritically told the Cuban-American crowd that he would keep the embargo in place because any money spent there goes to Fidel Castro.
He s a murderer.
He s a killer.
He s a bad guy in every respect, and, frankly, the embargo must stand if for no other reason than, if it does stand, he will come down.
And so, Donald Trump admitted that he gave $68,000 to a murderer and a killer who is a bad guy in every respect.
Now to make things clear, President Obama only reopened diplomatic relations with Cuba, which is within his executive power.
The embargo is still in effect.
But Republicans have whined about Obama s Cuba policy ever since.So what will they say about Trump s blatant violation of the embargo itself and the fact that he spent $68,000 on the trip, money that dictator Fidel Castro must have appreciated?If Republicans don t condemn Trump for this they will be committing hypocrisy at the highest level.
It will make it clear for every American that they don t care about law and order as much as they care about power.
Donald Trump broke the law and tried to make a deal with Fidel Castro s Cuba and he was merely a businessman.
Just imagine what laws he could violate and get away with as president.Featured image via Spencer Platt / Getty Images