Just two months shy of the one-year anniversary of Rich s death, FOX 5 has learned there is new information that could prove these theorists right.Rod Wheeler, a private investigator hired by the Rich family, suggests there is tangible evidence on Rich s laptop that confirms he was communicating with WikiLeaks prior to his death.Now, questions have been raised on why D.C. police, the lead agency on this murder investigation for the past ten months, have insisted this was a robbery gone bad when there appears to be no evidence to suggest that.Wheeler, a former D.C. police homicide detective, is running a parallel investigation into Rich s murder.
He said he believes there is a cover-up and the police department has been told to back down from the investigation.
The police department nor the FBI have been forthcoming, said Wheeler.
They haven t been cooperating at all.
I believe that the answer to solving his death lies on that computer, which I believe is either at the police department or either at the FBI.
I have been told both.
When we asked Wheeler if his sources have told him there is information that links Rich to Wikileaks, he said, Absolutely.
Yeah.
That s confirmed.
Wheeler also told us, I have a source inside the police department that has looked at me straight in the eye and said, Rod, we were told to stand down on this case and I can t share any information with you.
Now, that is highly unusual for a murder investigation, especially from a police department.
Again, I don t think it comes from the chief s office, but I do believe there is a correlation between the mayor s office and the DNC and that is the information that will come out [Tuesday].Just as in the Rich case, several of the people who died mysterious deaths were shot spontaneously and in public places, sometimes from behind, sometimes by unknown assailants and often just before they were set to release incriminating evidence concerning the Clintons activities.
In most cases, there were no signs of theft at the crime scenes.
And while some of the deaths were ruled suicides, other cases remain a mystery.Rich worked for the Democratic National Committee as a data analyst and reportedly sent more than 44,000 DNC emails to WikiLeaks, including 17,761 attachments, from January 2015 through the end of May 2016.
As WND reported, the DNC staffer had been in contact with WikiLeaks Director Gavin MacFadyen, who died just 17 days before the election of lung cancer.Rich was mysteriously shot and killed July 10, 2016.
As WND reported, Rich was murdered near his affluent neighborhood in Washington, D.C.
He was shot in the back with a handgun at 4:18 a.m. while he walked home, and nothing was taken from him.
Rich, who called several people as he later walked home, was talking on the phone with his girlfriend, Kelsey Murka, when he was accosted a block from his house.
He was transported to a local hospital and was pronounced dead at 5:57 a.m.
If it was a robbery it failed because he still has his watch, he still has his money, he still has his credit cards, still had his phone, so it was a wasted effort except we lost a life, said Rich s father, Joel, shortly after the bizarre murder.On July 22, just 12 days after Rich s death and days before the Democratic Party Convention in Philadelphia, WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails from DNC officials.Those leaked emails revealed, among other things, that the DNC tried to tip the scales in favor of Hillary Clinton s campaign and prevent Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders from becoming the party s nominee.
The leaks were cited by some Democrats as one explanation for Clinton s election loss.
Many accused the Russians of hacking and turning the tide for then-GOP candidate Donald Trump during the 2016 election.In one email released by WikiLeaks, Clinton campaign Chairman John Podesta said he d like to make an example out of the person who leaked the emails.
I m definitely for making an example of a suspected leaker whether or not we have any real basis for it, Podesta wrote on Feb. 22, 2015, according to WikiLeaks.Only days after Rich s murder, Hillary Clinton cited the DNC staffer s death in her speech advocating for more gun control.
From Sandy Hook to Orlando to Dallas, and so many other places, these tragedies tear at our soul, Clinton said in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, on July 12.
And so do the incidents that don t even dominate the headlines.
Just this past Sunday, a young man, Seth Rich, who worked for the Democratic National Committee to expand voting rights, was shot and killed in his neighborhood in Washington.
He was just 27 years old.
Surely we can agree that weapons of war have no place on the streets of America.
The bizarre shooting of Rich shares some similarities with other murders listed in WND s exclusive report, Clinton death list : 33 spine-tingling cases.
Many of the individuals included in the list were shot to death, though some of the deaths were ruled to be suicides.
Others were killed in plane crashes, car wrecks and freak accidents.Vince Foster was deputy White House counsel and Hillary s friend and law partner who had connections to the Clintons Travelgate and Whitewater scandals.
In 1993, Foster was found dead in a park with a fatal gunshot wound to his mouth.
As WND reported, his suicide was the subject of much speculation and three official investigations.Investigations by the U.S. Park Police, the Department of Justice, the FBI, Congress, Independent Counsel Robert B. Fiske and Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr concluded Foster s death was a suicide.
However, as WND reported in 2003, one of Starr s key investigators challenged the official line, insisting the probe s result was predetermined, only a few plotters were required to engineer the result, the crime scene was altered and that major newspaper editors killed stories by reporters pursuing the truth.
The Washington Post reported that federal investigators were not allowed to enter Foster s office after his death, but White House aides enter[ed] Foster s office shortly after his death, giving rise to speculation that files were removed from his office.
In his 2005 book The Truth about Hillary: What She Knew, When She Knew It, And How Far She ll Go to Become President, Edward Klein wrote of Hillary s involvement in the effort to remove Foster s files:As WND reported in February 2016, recently discovered evidence unearthed from boxes stored deep in the National Archives lend credence to theories about foul play and cover-up that have been hinted at by at least three books and countless articles.The newest piece to the puzzle was uncovered by two citizen researchers, one of whom was a witness involved in the case from the beginning.
What had only been suspicions about missing death-scene photographs are now listed as facts in public documents.The smoking-gun information comes from two documents: a two-page letter of resignation and a 31-page memo both written by Starr s lead prosecutor, Miguel Rodriguez.Rodriguez refers in his letter to photographs showing a wound on Foster s neck a wound that did not exist according to accounts in Starr s official government report.The obvious questions: How could a suicide victim be found with two wounds a .38-caliber gunshot into the mouth that exited through his head and another wound on the right side of his neck that one of the paramedics described as a small-caliber bullet hole?
And why would the government investigators go to great lengths to cover it up?Jerry Luther Parks: Shot in chest by mysterious gunmanTwo months after Foster died, Jerry Luther Parks who had been head of security for Bill Clinton s headquarters in Little Rock, Arkansas, during the 1992 presidential campaign and gubernatorial years was shot through the rear window of his car with a semiautomatic handgun.As WND reported, Jerry Luther Parks was reportedly watching a news bulletin on the death of Foster when he turned from the television and muttered, I m a dead man.
His son, Gary, was with him in the room.
It was July 21, 1993.
Foster had just been found dead in Fort Marcy Park, about seven miles from the White House, across the Potomac River in Virginia.
Foster had been shot through the head, said the bulletin, an apparent suicide.British journalist Ambrose Evans-Pritchard interviewed the Parks family extensively.
In The Secret Life of Bill Clinton, he reported that Parks was a nervous wreck for the next two months.
He packed a gun and drove evasively to shake off any possible pursuers.
At one point, Parks told his family that Bill Clinton was cleaning house and that he was next on the list.
On Sept. 23, 1993, as Parks was driving to his suburban Little Rock home along the Chenal Parkway, a white Chevrolet Caprice with two men inside drove alongside and peppered Parks car with semiautomatic gunfire.
Parks car ground to a halt.
A man emerged from the white Chevy, fired two rounds into Parks chest with a 9-mm pistol, then sped off.Several witnesses watched the murder.
The killers were never found.
As with so many other Arkancides the name given to the long list of suspicious deaths among Arkansas associates of the Clintons Big Media ignored the event.One of the last people to see Foster alive was Linda Tripp, who then worked as a secretary for Foster s boss, White House Counsel Bernard Nussbaum.
Tripp testified before Kenneth Starr s grand jury on July 28, 1998, that the reason she had leaked Monica Lewinsky s story to Michael Isikoff at Newsweek was that Tripp hoped the spotlight of national publicity might protect her from physical harm.
I am afraid of this administration, Tripp told the grand jury.She continued: I have what I consider to be well-founded fears of what they are capable of I had reasons to believe that the Vince Foster tragedy was not depicted accurately under oath by members of the administration I knew based on personal knowledge, personal observations, that they were lying under oath.
So it became very fearful to me that I had information even back then that was dangerous.
A juror asked, But do you have any examples of violence being done by the administration to people who were a threat to them?
Tripp named Jerry Parks: [T]he behavior in the West Wing with senior staff to the president during the time the Jerry Parks [murder report] came over the fax frightened me.
He had been killed, she said.The flurry of activity, the closed-door meetings and the hush-hush atmosphere in the White House all struck her as ominous and frightening.
Maybe you had to be there, said Tripp.
[The news of Parks death] was something they wanted to get out in front of.
There was talk that this would be another body to add to the list of 40 bodies or something that were associated with the Clinton administration.
At that time, I didn t know what that meant.
I have since come to see such a list.
After the murder, Gary Parks told a staffer of the New York Observer his father and Vince Foster had investigated Clinton s affairs at Hillary s request.
He said that Vince Foster had called up his father, who was working as a private investigator, to look into Clinton s romantic life in about 1980, after Bill Clinton had lost the governor s office following his first term.
Parks said Hillary wanted a divorce.
It looked like maybe the juggernaut she d believed in, and married, was over.
Clinton had by then lost two big races and won two.
Till the Comeback Kid boy is Bill Clinton gutsy won back the governorship in 1982.
But in the early 80s, Parks said, Hillary asked her law partner Vince Foster to prepare a divorce case and Foster called Parks, who compiled a dossier of women s statements.
Parks said that Hillary later decided against a divorce, but that his father held on to the dossier.
Then in 1993, Parks said, after Vince Foster went to Washington, he demanded the return of the file, and even called Jerry Parks in the days before his, Foster s, death, to demand it.
And that two months later his father was murdered, because, Parks said, he had held out on returning the file.
(The L.R.
police never solved his father s murder, not when I was looking into it a few years afterward.)
John Hillyer: Mysterious timing of deathNBC cameraman John Hillyer had been working on an investigation of a drug-smuggling operation in Mena, Arkansas, while Clinton was the state s governor.
He also helped with a 30-minute video called Circle of Power and The Clinton Chronicles.
As WND reported, video journalist Pat Matrisciana (producer of The Clinton Chronicles ) began working on the film project in the early 1990s, he didn t realize what he and his cameraman were getting into.
I had been contacted by a man named John Hillyer, an NBC cameraman who wanted to tell the real story about what was happening in Arkansas, he said.When Matrisciana and Hillyer arrived in Arkansas and began interviewing people for the video, the criminality and intrigue were far worse than they had imagined.
It was like going into some sort of banana republic that was run by a dictatorship, he said.
We were followed on a regular basis.
Matrisciana set up a safe house in an apartment complex in Little Rock where he and other journalists and investigators would meet to discuss stories of drug trafficking in Mena, the murder of two teenage boys there and whether or not Bill Clinton was involved in any of those activities.Hillyer and Matrisciana developed a friendship with Gary Parks, the son of Jerry Luther Parks, a former security chief of Clinton s presidential campaign.
According to Matrisciana, Jerry Parks had been hired several years earlier by Foster on behalf of Hillary Clinton to put Bill Clinton under constant surveillance.
Gary would go on surveillance stakeouts with his father as Jerry gathered photographic evidence of Clinton visiting with prostitutes, Gennifer Flowers and other women.When Foster s body was found in Fort Marcy Park, Jerry became paranoid that he might also be targeted for murder.
He was right.
When Jerry was assassinated in his car in September 1993, Gary and Jerry s widow believed it was related to his surveillance of Clinton.Gary Parks regularly stayed at the safe house, but was awakened one night when the door was kicked open by would-be assassins.
When he quickly loaded his M-1 carbine, the sound of the bullet being chambered scared off the killers and they fled into the parking lot.
Gary went to the window and thought he recognized one of the men as a member of the Gov.
Clinton s security staff.On another occasion, when Matrisciana and others were preparing for a radio talk show at the safe house, an investigator scanned the apartment for bugs and discovered eight of them.During the course of their investigation, Matrisciana and Hillyer discovered a trail of unsolved murders of people who knew details about the teens deaths.
Others who died mysteriously had inside information on drug ties to the political establishment in Arkansas.
On one occasion, Hillyer was planning to conduct an interview with a former official of the Democratic National Committee, but the man never showed up for the interview.
Hillyer learned the next day that the man, C. Victor Raiser II, and his son, Montgomery Raiser, had died in a plane crash.Matrisciana and Hillyer were also going to interview a hermit who lived in the mountains near where the teens had been killed.
Two days before the scheduled interview, the hermit died.Hillyer started to fear for his own life, telling Matrisciana that he thought they would kill him by making it look like he had a heart attack.
After the film was completed, Hillyer went on to other projects and ended up living in Atlanta.
In 1996, Matrisciana received a phone call from Hillyer.
John told him he had uncovered new information that needed to be put on video, but that they couldn t talk on an unsecured phone.
They planned on meeting to discuss the new information, but Hillyer died of a heart attack three days later, on Nov. 29, 1996.Did someone get to Hillyer?
Matrisciana doesn t know.
Were the hermit and DNC official killed for what they knew?
Or were these simply coincidences?
Again, Matriciana said he doesn t know, but he did think the deaths were unusual, considering the number of other people who have died under mysterious circumstances in Arkansas.Blacklisted News -On July 3, attorney Shawn Lucas, 38, helped serve the DNC with a lawsuit claiming then-DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz rigged the primary for Hillary Clinton.
The complaint was served before Wasserman Schultz resigned amid the Wikileaks email scandal on July 24.Less than one month after he helped serve the lawsuit, Lucas girlfriend found him dead in his bathroom.Beverly Ann Fields, chief of staff at the Washington, D.C., Medical Examiner s office, told WND, The cause and manner of death for decedent [Shawn] Lucas are still pending.
Victor Thorn authored four books on the Clintons: Hillary (and Bill): The Sex Volume, Hillary (and Bill): The Drugs Volume, Hillary (and Bill): The Murder Volume and Crowning Clinton: Why Hillary Shouldn t Be in the White House.
Thorn reportedly committed suicide with a gun on his 54th birthday on a mountaintop in Pennsylvania.Inquisitr reported that Thorn made several appearances on The Russell Scott Show and told the host, Russell, if I m ever found dead, it was murder.
I would never kill myself.
As WND reported, Joe Montano, who served as chairman of the Democratic National Committee before Debbie Wasserman Schultz and was an aide to Hillary s running-mate, Tim Kaine, reportedly died of a heart attack after the Wikileaks DNC email dump.
Montano was only 47.Former United Nations General Assembly President John Ashe was found dead in His New York home, and the cause of death was reported as a heart attack, as WND reported.
But the local Dobbs Ferry police said his throat had been crushed, presumably by a barbell he dropped while pumping iron.
The death by barbell of disgraced U.N. official John Ashe could become a bigger obsession for conspiracy theorists than Vince Foster s 1993 suicide, the report by Richard Johnson said.It s because Ashe was scheduled to testify in just days with Chinese businessman and co-defendant Ng Lap Seng, who was accused of smuggling $4.5 million into the U.S. and lying that it was to buy casino chips and more.The New York Post said Ng earlier was identified in a 1998 Senate document as the source of hundreds of thousands of dollars illegally funneled through an Arkansas restaurant owner, Charlie Trie, to the Democratic National Committee during the Clinton administration.
One source told me, Johnson wrote, During the trial, the prosecutors would have linked Ashe to the Clinton bagman Ng.
It would have been very embarrassing.
His death was conveniently timed.
Gareth Williams, a transatlantic MI6 spy whose dead body was found naked, padlocked and stuffed in a 32-inch by 19-inch duffel bag that was sitting in his London bathtub had illegally hacked secret data on Bill Clinton, according to the U.K. Sun.
The news site noted, [H]is death is still one of Britain s most mysterious unsolved cases.
Scotland Yard had announced the death as a suicide, saying he locked himself in the bag.But his DNA wasn t found on the lock.
There were no palm prints on the edge of his bathtub.For the entire chilling list of people who crossed the Clinton s and ended up dead, go to WND