It s not clear whether Trump called in a favor or Fox News decided to impress the new boss by taking the initiative, but in any case the most hamfisted attempt to lie on Trump s behalf just came out of the Fox News official Twitter account.
It did not go well.Following a weekend in which Trump visited his own Virginia golf course twice and took the night off to have a large dinner at his own DC hotel, Fox News released an urgent news alert : Pay No Attention To The Man Behind The Curtain, Nothing To See Here!News Alert: @POTUS spending weekend working at the White House.
pic.twitter.com/kAtZVQE2Mr Fox News (@FoxNews) March 26, 2017Setting aside for a moment the sheer lunacy of the bar being set so low for Donald Trump that spending three consecutive days in the official presidential residence is considered worthy of a news alert, the statement was a complete and total lie.
There are photographs that prove Trump was not in the White House this weekend.
They also prove that he wasn t working this weekend at any location.
He appears to have spent much of the past three days golfing.Here s Trump watching the Golf Channel with a few friends at his golf resort in Virginia on Sunday morning:Someone just posted this on Instagram from Trump s golf club.
POTUS appears to be watching Golf Channel with 2 other people.
pic.twitter.com/5LpVRHR1Do Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) March 26, 2017And here s Trump in golf attire at the same golf course the previous day, shortly before another photograph emerged of him on the course in a golf cart:@BraddJaffy just saw this on IG: pic.twitter.com/96kIwnAFHS Alex Marshall (@a_r_marshall) March 25, 2017And here s Trump s own staff admitting he played all 18 holes on Saturday.Trump golfed 18 holes yesterday on the "championship" course here with the club pro and a club member, fellow members tell me today.
pic.twitter.com/pnyOYajRAj Jennifer Jacobs (@JenniferJJacobs) March 26, 2017And here s Trump heading to his DC hotel to throw a dinner for himself and his friends on Saturday night.
(Not sure what the occasion was, but it certainly wasn t in celebration of the healthcare bill he and Paul Ryan failed to pass the day before.
)The press pool has arrived at the Trump International Hotel where the president is going to have dinner.
Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) March 26, 2017Fox News has been working hand-in-hand with Trump since the inauguration but this lie was so monumentally bold that the internet was having none of it.
Thankfully, the comments under the tweet made it clear that absolutely nobody was buying this cover up.News Alert: Ferris Bueller sick and snoring loudly in his bedroom.
https://t.co/FK20XuMt7L Nick (@NickSchug) March 26, 2017Why would a supposed news organization propagate such an absurd falsehood when there's widespread proof to the contrary?
pic.twitter.com/v4dZdISHKp Matt McDermott (@mattmfm) March 26, 2017He was at his golf course earlier today.
@FoxNews pic.twitter.com/2KSGl8qddr Erick Fernandez (@ErickFernandez) March 26, 2017.
@FoxNews fixed it for you pic.twitter.com/u5A1Y8gbJr Matt McDermott (@mattmfm) March 26, 2017@FoxNews @POTUS Do any of you ever feel bad when you think about your long-ago dreams of being real journalists?
Dennis Perkins (@DennisPerkins5) March 26, 2017As one user put it: Come on, Fox News, have a little self-respect.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images