Donald Trump s national security adviser Michael Flynn has resigned in disgrace, and Kellyanne Conway should do the same after this disastrous interview.While President Obama was still in office, Flynn contacted the Russian ambassador to talk about lifting the sanctions placed upon them in retaliation for interfering with our election process.This is a violation of the Logan Act, which bars citizens from negotiating with foreign powers.Trump was not in office yet, so Flynn was not yet in his official position either, which means he broke the law.Flynn also lied to Mike Pence about the contact and Acting Attorney General Sally Yates had warned Trump of Flynn s actions last month and warned him that Flynn could be blackmailed by the Russians.Trump would later fire Yates, but kept Flynn on staff despite the illegal actions and threat of blackmail.Then on Monday night, Flynn resigned.
But Kellyanne Conway insists that Flynn had Trump s full confidence up until the very end when he all of a sudden changed his mind.
I think misleading the vice president really was the key here, Conway told Matt Lauer on the TODAY Show on Tuesday morning.
I spoke with the president this morning, and he asked me to speak on his behalf, and to reiterate that Mike Flynn had resigned.
He decided that this situation had become unsustainable for him.
But that was not good enough for Lauer, who proceeded to call Conway out.
You re saying that was the straw that broke the camel s back, but the White House knew about that last month when the Justice Department warned the White House that General Flynn had not been completely honest in characterizing that conversation with the Russian ambassador.
Lauer went on to remind Conway that the Justice Department further warned Trump that Flynn was a blackmail risk.Conway responded by repeating her previous statement and even admitted that Flynn was still present at meetings.
Lauer was not amused.
Kellyanne, that makes no sense!
Last month, the Justice Department warned the White House that General Flynn had mislead them!
And that as a result he was vulnerable to blackmail.
And at that moment he still had the complete trust of the president?
Conway then insisted that the media move on and stop reporting on the scandal.Here s the video via Twitter.
That makes no sense.
@MLauer to @KellyannePolls while discussing Trump s former national security adviser Michael Flynn pic.twitter.com/94SaFlQJxo TODAY (@TODAYshow) February 14, 2017This is a major scandal because it exposes the fact that Trump is incapable of controlling his own staff and that he will continue to trust his friends even if they are dirty.
Trump s national security adviser was a threat to national security and Trump didn t do anything about it.
Trump should have to answer for that and if he doesn t like it he should resign.Featured image via screenshot