We are all getting whiplash from Donald Trump s constant flip-flopping on his immigration policy over the last few weeks.
Trump had been touting one of the most racist, heartless and problematic solutions to immigration throughout his entire campaign until just a few weeks ago, when he suddenly walked it back and softened his position.
That decision confused everyone and especially angered his equally racist supporters and Trump has been stuck in a vicious back-and-forth pattern ever since.Last week, Trump said all undocumented immigrants in the U.S. must leave and then get in line to come back to America.
This week, he made another pivot in his immigration policy, stating that he hasn t ruled out giving some immigrants a path to legalization.
When spokesperson Katrina Pierson went on CNN to try to clear things up, it became apparent that everyone in the Trump campaign is confused now.In trying to defend her boss, a struggling Pierson said that it would be impossible for Trump to deport all the undocumented immigrants in America because there could be 2-3 times more immigrants than what the estimates say.
Using the usual imaginary statistics that the Trump campaign has become infamous for, she said: We are continuously hearing that there s not 11 million [undocumented immigrants], there could be 20 million, there could be 30 million.
This is important because Mr. Trump can t promise to deport every single illegal alien in the country if there s 30 million.
While she was speaking, the host noticed that Pierson was absolutely lost and said, We understand that it s complicated which only infuriated Pierson and made her raise her voice.
But as hard as she tried, Pierson couldn t give any solid reasoning for why Trump s ever-changing policy could work, because the truth is that it won t. The only thing that was cleared up in this interview was the fact that not even Trump s own campaign can keep up with his policy changes.Watch Pierson stumble through this interview below:.
@KatrinaPierson on Trump s changing immigration stance: He said from beginning he d be a negotiator in Congress https://t.co/G4qVqhxleN New Day (@NewDay) September 6, 2016Featured image is a screenshot