Bernie Sanders appeared with Conan O Brien on Tuesday night.
The segment of the show was hardly funny, but it didn t matter.
It was about the frightening fact that the President Elect of the United States has the self-control of a toddler with an intellectual sophistication to match, and an apparent desire to totally destroy our democracy.The first tweet Conan and Bernie talked about was this one:In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016Sanders correctly pointed out that the argument is ridiculous, and beyond that, dangerous.
First of all, it s delusional.
It s totally insane, Sanders said.
But what s even scarier in his view is that Trump is sending a signal to Republicans all over this country, urging them to suppress the votes of poor people, people of color, immigrants and others who might vote against them.
My own view is we have got to work overtime to bring more people into the political process, not make it harder for people to participate.
Source: The Daily BeastThen, there was this tweet:Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag if they do, there must be consequences perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016Bernie acknowledged, after saying that there were far more important issues than flag burning, that that too is a hidden message, and that is be careful if you are prepared to dissent.
We re watching you, is the message, even though the Supreme Court ruled that flag burning is free speech.
I worry about the future of this country, Sanders said, especially given the fact that the cornerstone of the president-elect s campaign was bigotry against Mexican-Americans, Muslims, and other groups.Here s the video:We hear you, Bernie.
Everyone with a modicum of intelligence is worried for the future of this country, and frankly of the planet, under a Trump presidency.
While Bernie is right that Trump s tweets hint at his dictatorial leanings, we shouldn t let his tweets distract from Trump s actual dictatorial moves and the fact that the swamp Trump claimed to want to drain is being filled with the dirtiest water in the country.Featured image via video screen capture.