This week Jimmy John s sandwiches offered $1 subs as a promotion for Customer Appreciation Day, hoping to revamp their image after the public caught wind of owner Jimmy John Liautaud s disgusting business practices and hunting fetishes.The company started posted their $1 sandwich day on Facebook and Instagram earlier this week and people immediately called them out.
According to Raw Story, the admin on the business official Facebook page began deleting comments from posters who pointed out just how shady their CEO is.
Specifically, anyone who reminded potential customer s about Liautaud s history as a big game hunter, had their comments immediately deleted.In 2015, the CEO admitted to the Chicago Tribune that he had killed a rhinoceros, elephants, and a leopard in the past, but claimed he doesn t hunt there anymore: I choose to hunt and I choose to fish, he said.
Everything I ve done has been totally legal.
And the meat has been eaten, if not by me than by someone I m with.
I don t hunt big African game anymore.
He claimed that it had been ten years since his last hunt in Africa, even though the pictures that outed him were from 2010.In addition to killing innocent elephants, Liautaud has contributed tens of thousands of dollars to the Republican Party.
In 2011, Chicago Business reported:He s faced down a union-organizing drive and boycott in Minnesota.
His Arizona franchisees have been picketed over his contributions to candidates who back that state s year-old anti-illegal immigration law.
And he s stepped up his support of Republican candidates and causes, giving $100,000 to Sen. Bill Brady in the last few days of his losing gubernatorial bid and prominently co-hosting a big fundraiser Downstate last month for GOP presidential front-runner Mitt Romney, to name just two.He is also one of the disgusting CEOs who protested being forced to provide his employees with healthcare when the Affordable Care Act took effect.
In fact, he hated it so much that he made an appearance on Fox News and said that he would begin cutting his workers hours in an attempt to avoid it.As if all of that wasn t reason enough to avoid his company, in 2014 Democrats in the House of Representatives sent a letter to the Labor Department and Federal Trade Commission asking for them to investigate Jimmy John s after the company forced employees to sign non-compete agreements.
The letter stated: There is no justifiable business interest in imposing such a restriction on restaurant employees that are not privy to any of the company s proprietary information.
Furthermore, we believe this practice can intimidate working individuals, many of whom are struggling to support themselves and their families while earning barely above the minimum wage.
With all of these unsavory facts out there, it s not surprising that Jimmy John s would try to woo people with $1 sandwiches.
Unfortunately for them, there are thousands of people like me who want everyone to know how horrible the company and its CEO really are.
It is going to take a helluva lot more than cheap sandwiches to make us forget all of this.Featured image Instagram