Donald Trump is currently leading in the polls in New York State, but he won t be receiving two votes from his own kids.
On Monday, Donald Trump admitted his son, Eric, and daughter, Ivanka, forgot to register to vote as Republicans before the deadline in March to be eligible to participate in the New York primaries on April 19th.
They were unaware of the rules and they didn t register in time, Trump told Fox News.
So they feel very, very guilty.
They feel very guilty but it s fine.
As we reported over the weekend, both Ivanka and Eric are registered to vote, but not affiliated with either political party.
Their oversight is illuminating to the disorganization of the Donald Trump campaign.When Donald Trump first announced his presidential campaign in the Republican primaries last year, media outlets couldn t stop covering the circus sideshow of the Republican Party, which has taken over as Donald Trump is on track to win the Republican Presidential nomination.
The funniest thing about it is he barely had to try.
A few racist speeches, vague promises, and egotistical rants about how America needs to be great again, and only Donald Trump, a winner, can make it that way, and the majority of Republican voters have rushed to get behind this fascist demagogue.
The remainder of the Republican Primary is now left between Donald Trump and Ted Cruz, both vying for who can fearmonger more Republicans into supporting them while Republican establishment candidate and Ohio Governor John Kasich, who has his own brand of crazy, tries to hold onto being considered viable.In the defense of Trump s kids, voter registration should be automatic, as states such as Oregon and California have done, and the entire voting process, from registration to casting a ballot should be facilitated.
They aren t the only two people who have been shut out of the Democratic process because they either lacked the information necessary to ensure their participation or weren t responsible enough to take the time to register with a party affiliate.Featured image via Flickr