Donald Trump thought he could bully the Department of Energy.
He was humiliatingly wrong.Last week, Trump and his team sent a letter to the DOE demanding a list a department employees and labs working on climate change.
You know, because Trump and his supporters deny that climate change is real and would like nothing more than to purge those studying it from the government.Trump specifically wants to know who worked with President Obama to fight climate change, which is a threat to the planet that is already having devastating effects on our country.
Temperatures have risen every year, resulting in every year becoming the hottest on record.
Hurricanes have become more frequent and more destructive.
And flooding is now a constant worry along the coast.Well, the Department of Energy fielded feedback from their workforce about Trump s demand and the response was overwhelming.
Trump can go f*ck himself.The Washington Post reports, The Department of Energy received significant feedback from our workforce throughout the department, including the National Labs, following the release of the transition team s questions.
Some of the questions asked left many in our workforce unsettled, said Eben Burnham-Snyder, a department spokesman.
Our career workforce, including our contractors and employees at our labs, comprise the backbone of DOE (Department of Energy) and the important work our department does to benefit the American people.
We are going to respect the professional and scientific integrity and independence of our employees at our labs and across our department.
We will be forthcoming with all publically-available information with the transition team.
We will not be providing any individual names to the transition team.
Burnham-Snyder s email had the last sentence in boldface for emphasis.So lets just recap.
Donald Trump has already pissed off the CIA and most of the intelligence community, angered China, and now he has infuriated the Energy Department.Seriously, how is Trump supposed to run the government if he can t even get along with the people who make our government work?The good people at the Energy Department are doing this country a service by researching climate change.
We desperately need to address it or many of our coastal cities, including our nation s capital, could be under water in a matter of decades.
And it would kill our economy and leave millions of people homeless regardless of their political affiliations.Trump is targeting the Department of Energy and is demanding names he should never receive.
Federal employees should not be persecuted for doing their jobs and they certainly should not be persecuted for understanding science.
And even when Trump takes office and puts Rick Perry in charge of the department, it should still deny Trump the names he seeks.
In fact, it should refuse to work with Rick Perry until Trump drops his witch hunt entirely.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images