The FBI is only just now beginning to take down the Bundy terrorists in Oregon, and Cenk Uygur is furious that it took them this long to take action.Ever since the redneck wannabe soldiers seized the federal buildings at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge on January 2nd, many have pointed out that if the militants weren t white, the occupation would have been put down harshly on day one and most of the gunmen would have been killed.But because Bundy and his buddies were white anti-government right-wingers, they were treated with kid gloves by the Justice Department and law enforcement, and only time will tell whether they are actually punished for their many crimes or just receive a slap on the wrist.Cenk Uygur, however, didn t hold back on Wednesday while laying the smackdown on the FBI for treating the militants as if there are separate laws for white gun-toting conservatives.
He became particularly upset after one militant outright called for killing law enforcement officials, something that would almost certainly cause police to drop the hammer if the militant were a Muslim or a black man.
We re going to have a conversation with these guys?
They were free to come and go for three weeks, there was no perimeter.
The FBI says, Oh don t worry, we just set up a perimeter Why didn t you set up a perimeter the first time they captured a federal building, armed, talking about how they re going to murder people who come and try to take it from them.
And here are these guys on camera saying, We re going to murder the cops if they come to get us.
You stole, sh*t, you criminal, you thug!
The Young Turks host then went off on how much leeway law enforcement have given to Bundy and his militants over the last three weeks just because they are armed white guys on the political right-wing fringe, pointing out that if a left-wing environmental group had done the same thing they would have been instantly executed without getting the opportunity to exercise their right to go in front of a judge or being heard by a jury of their peers.
Look at the white privilege here, and it s not just white.
It s right-wing privilege.
Because if left wingers had taken over, environmental groups had taken over and say, Oh, we re going to do this and we re going to do that.
It doesn t matter if it s a Latino, a black group or it s just white Greenpeace or animal rights guys, nobody gets to come and go and threaten cops and talk about killing them!
This is white privilege.
You can steal stuff, you can steal federal stuff and they don t even arrest you for three weeks!
This is insane, man.
There s two different laws in the country and we walk around pretending it isn t. Here s the video via YouTube.
Uygur s remarked begin at the 5:30 marker.He s right, of course.
If the militants had been Muslim or black there would not have been a standoff at all.
Law enforcement would have fired every bullet they could get their hands on into the compound until every single one of them were killed.
Now, federal law enforcement should be applauded for waiting out the terrorists and taking them down with little bloodshed.
But the point is that police should have the same tolerance and discipline no matter what color a person is or what religion or political views a person holds.
If anything, this standoff demonstrated perfectly that we live in two separate Americas, one where police will do everything in their power to not kill you as long as you are a white gun nut, and one where police will become trigger-happy monsters when they come upon unarmed people of color and then hide behind their badges while they do everything to justify their unlawful actions.Featured Image: Screenshot