When you re running for re-election in your toughest campaign yet, in a state with a heavy Hispanic voting population, what s the one thing you shouldn t do?
Well, for starters, you shouldn t underestimate the voting bloc that could make or break you.But John McCain doesn t care.
Even though he runs neck-in-neck with Democratic Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick in a general election matchup, he is adamant he and the GOP don t need the Hispanic vote to win:An interesting phenomenon right now is the huge turnouts for the Republican primaries, low turnout for the Democrat primaries.
Now if all those people would get behind the Republican candidate, I think we could win this election despite the alienation, frankly, of a lot of the Hispanic voters.Two things: one, there s no correlation between primary turnout and wins in the fall in the last 11 elections (a statement that was rated true by Politifact), and two: do not underestimate Hispanic voters.
As the Huffington Post notes, the Hispanic and Latino voting bloc could tip the scales for Democrats in Arizona.
And, as of right now, the majority of them support Ann Kirkpatrick.The angry white vote can only carry McCain so far.
And with a mounting challenge by Tea Partier Kelli Ward, McCain can t afford a split Arizona Republican Party.Like Donald Trump, Republicans are cashing in on their last ditch effort to convince enough angry, latently racist white voters to save them, and screw the rest.Kirkpatrick jumped all over McCain s idiotic comments, saying:I wonder what thousands of Latino families across Arizona will think when they hear that John McCain is willing to alienate them as long as he and Republicans win in November.
McCain, who already revealed that his Latino outreach efforts are a pure, political move, has changed his positions on important issues such as immigration reform and the DREAM Act, depending on who he talks to or whether it s an election year.
And McCain has repeatedly promised to support Donald Trump if he becomes the GOP nominee, in spite of Trump s racist, anti-Latino rhetoric.Donald Trump?
Alienation?
Flip-flopping?
It s as if McCain is dying to retire.
Let s make sure in November he gets what he deserves a swift kick in the behind.Featured image via Wikipedia