Wow!
Conservative Ann Coulter was in fact targeted by Delta employees who wanted to make the popular Republican uncomfortable.
Coulter tweeted out a screenshot of a back and forth that confirms the employees decided to mess with her because of her political affiliation:BEWARE OF @DELTA REPUBLICANS.
Texts from a flight attendant: It was political.
@Delta still won t give a reason.
pic.twitter.com/Tcxp2DlPa0 Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 18, 2017In case you missed it: CONSERVATIVE FIREBRAND ANN COULTER DESTROYS Delta Airlines On Twitter For Kicking Her Out Of Reserved Seat There are some people you probably shouldn t cross.
Donald Trump is one, and conservative author and political analyst Ann Coulter is the other one Conservative columnist Ann Coulter flew into a fit of fury Saturday after Delta Airlines booted her from her reserved Comfort+ seat which comes with 3 additional inches of legroom and gave it to another passenger.In a two-hour tweeting tantrum,she quoted her exchange with a flight attendant: Why are you taking me out of the extra room seat I specifically booked?
she asked.Their answer, she said, was I don t know.
Before Coulter posted a picture of the woman Delta gave her extra-legroom reserved seat to, she tweeted this:Suckiest @Delta moved me from my PRE-BOOKED SEAT & gave it to some woman, not elderly, child, or sick.
I have pictures so don t lie, @Delta!
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 16, 2017But at least @Delta was nice @ it, summarily snatching my ticket from my hand & ordering me to move w/o explanation, compensation or apology Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 16, 2017The 6-foot-tall Coulter, who is 55, tweeted a picture of the woman who got her aisle seat on the flight from LaGuardia to Florida, noting, Delta didn t give my extra room seat to an air marshal or tall person.
NYP.
@Delta didn t give my extra room seat to an air marshall or tall person.
Here s the woman given my PRE-BOOKED seat: pic.twitter.com/iDNB8xXXOd Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 15, 2017The long-legged Coulter, who still appeared to furious about Delta s decision to boot her from her reserved seat with extra legroom, tweeted again to Delta about the daschund-legged woman who they gave her seat to:So glad I took time investigate the aircraft & PRE-BOOK a specific seat on @Delta, so some woman could waltz at the last min & take my seat.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 15, 2017Hey @Delta, if it was so important for the dachshund-legged woman to take my seat, she should have BOOKED THE SEAT IN ADVANCE.
Like I did.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 16, 2017The sharp-tongued conservative firebrand continued to rip into Delta Airlines in a series of tweets criticizing their customer service:.
@Delta motto: "How can we make your flight more uncomfortable?"
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 16, 2017.
@Delta employee questionnaire: What is your ideal job: Prison guard?
Animal handler?
Stasi policeman?
All of the above: HIRED!
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) July 16, 2017A Delta spokesman said it appeared Coulter was in the same extra-room row, just in a different seat.
But he promised to look into it.