The Republican party has been good at one thing thus far this election year: They ve managed to assemble a group of individuals who ve made the Party of Lincoln seem comical.
Whether its Trump s antics, Cruz s lies, or Rubio s roboticism, it s not looking to good for the party to take back the presidency.
The latest comic book tale comes from one John Kasich who said that women left the kitchen to vote for him when he first ran for office in 1978.In a sign that Fox News is desperately trying to resurrect an establishment candidate for the nomination, host Megyn Kelly, who has earned a reputation for being straightforward and even tough on candidates when they say stupid things, was surprisingly playful with Kasich.
After playing a clip of Kasich s kitchen remark, Kelly was friendly and self-deprecating: I can certainly say that if it were my husband, he d say, For the love of God, get out of the kitchen!
No one wants you in here!
You do bad things in here!
The two then had a creepy chuckle which immediately put Kasich at ease.
She even went as far as to rationalize his women in the kitchen comment, saying: Back in 1978 when you first ran for office, 70% of women were not working out of the home full time, they just weren t. The vast majority of women were at home and things have changed a lot since then.
These comments put Kasich at ease and he then went on to say how much he supposedly respects women by giving examples.
He said: But let s be real about this.
You know, my campaign manager is a woman, she used to be my chief of staff and if I m president, who knows?
She ll have one of the highest positions in the country.
I have a lieutenant governor who s a woman.
You know, the situation is, I appointed a lady to the Ohio Supreme Court, you know, obviously a woman.
And I ve a number of very influential women cabinet members.
Not only did Kelly let him off the hook with his comments and rehabilitated him, but she conveniently forgot to ask Kasich about signing a bill that would defund Planned Parenthood in his home state of Ohio.After Kelly had admirably grilled Trump about his comments about women, she disappointingly let Kasich off the hook.
This is a sign Fox News is playing favoritism in its quest to rehabilitate an establishment candidate for the nomination.Here s the video:Featured image via screenshot