Trump and his allies expect us to dismiss the 35-page dossier that details Donald Trump and his team s ties to the Russian government, but a lot of crazy stuff keeps happening that makes it impossible.When it was just former MI6 agent and author of the report Christopher Steele, who is in hiding to protect himself from both Trump and Putin s goons, saying that President Asterisk s closet is overflowing with skeletons (and Russian hooker urine) it was one thing, but the existence of audio and even video of Trump engaging in incriminating acts was confirmed by at least four sources, including one in the American intelligence community.
Israeli intelligence officials have also been warned about sharing intel with Trump s administration for fear that it will be leaked to Vladimir Putin.
And then there s the little matter of what happened to a gentleman who helped Steele compile his incriminating yet not entirely verified report Oleg Erovinkin was a former general in the KGB and the FSB.
He is suspected of feeding information to Steele, and he was found dead in his car on Boxing Day.
Russian state-run media initially reported that foul play was involved when Erovinkin s body was found in a black Lexus [and] a large-scale investigation has been commenced in the area.
Erovinkin s body was sent to the FSB morgue.
Since then, the cause of death has been downgraded to heart attack.
The Telegraph reports:Erovinkin was a key aide to Igor Sechin, a former deputy prime minister and now head of Rosneft, the state-owned oil company, who is repeatedly named in the dossier.Erovinkin has been described as a key liaison between Sechin and Russian president Vladimir Putin.
Mr Steele writes in an intelligence report dated July 19, 2016, he has a source close to Sechin, who had disclosed alleged links between Mr Trump s supporters and Moscow.The death of Erovinkin has prompted speculation it is linked to Mr Steele s explosive dossier, which was made public earlier this month.
Mr Trump has dismissed the dossier as fake news and no evidence has emerged to support its lurid claims.The Russian state-run RIA Novosti news agency reported Erovinkin s body was found in a black Lexus [and] a large-scale investigation has been commenced in the area.
Erovinkin s body was sent to the FSB morgue .No cause of death has been confirmed and the FSB continues to investigate.
Media reports suggested his death was a result of foul play.It was later claimed he died of a heart attack.
Christo Grozev, an expert on Russia-related security threats, believes Erovinkin is the key source to whom Mr Steele refers in his dossier.
Insiders have described Erovinkin to me alternately as Sechin s treasurer and the go-between between Putin and Sechin .
One thing that everyone seems to agree both in public and private sources is that Erovinkin was Sechin s closest associate, Grozev says.
I have no doubt that at the time Erovinkin died, Mr Putin had Mr Steele s Trump dossier on his desk.
He would arguably have known whether the alleged story is based on fact or fiction.
Whichever is true, he would have had a motive to seek and find the mole, he adds.
He would have had to conclude that Erovinkin was at least a person of interest.
At this point, it will be difficult for our own intelligence agencies to get to the bottom of this situation.
Recently, for example, Trump decided to retain James Comey yes, the guy who interfered in the election on his behalf as the head of the FBI.
The Donald also has the power to fire Comey if the ongoing investigation is not positive for Trump.
At around the same time as the announcement, the Bureau cleared Michael Flynn of any wrongdoing in his numerous, suspicious calls to the Russian ambassador.Our country is in a bad place and we need more information to correctly determine what is going on with any of this information the current administration and his despotic allies will go to any lengths to hide.Was Erovinkin murdered because of his knowledge of information that could greatly hurt Trump and his BFF Putin?
Maybe, maybe not.
Putin is exactly the sort of person who has been known to leave a trail of dead journalists in his wake for reporting too much.
It s not outside the realm of possibility that he had a former KGB agent murdered for knowing too much.Featured image via Getty Images (Drew Angerer)/Twitter