Fox News Channel has issued a blistering press release attacking Republican presidential front runner Donald Trump.
The release comes in response to yet another Twitter tirade from Trump in which he described Fox News primetime host Megyn Kelly as crazy, sick, and called for a boycott of her show The Kelly File because Always a hit on Trump!
Everybody should boycott the @megynkelly show.
Never worth watching.
Always a hit on Trump!
She is sick, & the most overrated person on tv.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2016In response, Fox blasted Trump for his childish tirade, noting his his extreme, sick obsession with her and that he had issued an endless barrage of crude and sexist verbal assaults that is beneath the dignity of a presidential candidate who wants to occupy the highest office in the land.
The full statement:Donald Trump s vitriolic attacks against Megyn Kelly and his extreme, sick obsession with her is beneath the dignity of a presidential candidate who wants to occupy the highest office in the land.
Megyn is an exemplary journalist and one of the leading anchors in America we re extremely proud of her phenomenal work and continue to fully support her throughout every day of Trump s endless barrage of crude and sexist verbal assaults.
As the mother of three young children, with a successful law career and the second highest rated show in cable news, it s especially deplorable for her to be repeatedly abused just for doing her job.Trump has been whining and complaining about Kelly ever since she confronted him in the first Republican debate with his history of sexist and misogynist comments about women.
Here s video of that moment:Trump then accused her of bleeding out of her whatever and later boycotted a debate on Fox because Kelly was on the panel of moderators.The friction between Fox and Trump is strange, because the right-wing network has set the antagonistic and nasty tone towards American life that Trump has capitalized on.
Studies have shown that Fox has featured Trump far more than any other Republican presidential candidate, contributing to his rise to the top of the field.Fox News built this monster just like Dr. Frankenstein did, and now their village is under attack.Featured image via Flickr