If you ve recently gotten into an online political debate, it s likely that you ve encountered some people claiming to be former Democrats who are now supporting Trump.
Many Democrats dismiss these people as trolls, and as it turns out, they are probably right.
There is a giant epidemic of people (mostly two users) spouting the exact same verbiage throughout social media.Does this sound familiar?I come from a family of Democrats and switched to Republican to over for Mr. Trump!
My 80 year old father who s been a life time (sic) Democrat is voting for Donald Trump!Here it is, twice, from two different users:I suppose that could be a coincidence, in a parallel universe, but a quick Google search shows that it s not.
Both Kim Smith and Daniel Mazurkiewicz show up dozens of times with the exact same quote.
Here s just a sample of the Google results:It s not just Facebook.
There is also this:There are also a string of fans of that particular comment:A look at their Facebook pages reveals something kind of strange.
Daniel Mazurkiewicz s first post was in April.
His image is a watermarked Getty Images picture.
Smith appears to have disappeared.There are a couple of possible explanations.
One is that these people are classic paid internet trolls.
It was revealed just the other day that the Kremlin is behind a massive troll campaign to help boost the billionaire.In his research from St. Petersburg, (freelance journalist Adrian) Chen discovered that Russian internet trolls paid by the Kremlin to spread false information on the internet have been behind a number of highly coordinated campaigns to deceive the American public.It s a brand of information warfare, known as dezinformatsiya, that has been used by the Russians since at least the Cold War.
The disinformation campaigns are only one active measure tool used by Russian intelligence to sow discord among, and within, allies perceived hostile to Russia.Source: Business InsiderIt s not just Russians, though.
Trump has paid people to cheer for him.
Trump has also been his own cheerleader, by posing as his PR people in the past.
In other words, there s a good chance that Kim Smith and Daniel Mazurkiewicz are, in fact, Donald Trump posing as his supporters.Featured image via John Moore at Getty Images.