You would think Charlotte is lost to the liberals There are lefty Democrats living there who don t understand that they don t get to decide who is involved in local government THE VOTERS DO!
Dimple Ajmera decided to characterize President Trump as divisive but it s ironic that SHE is the one who s dividing people.
After her nasty remarks about Trump, the Trump supporters filled the next City Council meeting in protest.
Awesome!
Charlotte City Council member Dimple Ajmera drew the ire of the local Republican Party after she said that Republicans who support Trump should not be involved in local government:DANGEROUS RHETORIC: Republicans that are supporting Trump, they should have no place on city council whatsoever or in the mayor s race, Ajmera said on the news show Flashpoint on WCNC, which aired Sunday.Ajmera, a Democrat, was appointed to the council in January to replace John Autry, who left council to join the N.C. General Assembly.
Ajmera is running for one of four at-large seats this fall.Ajmera stood by her comments Tuesday.
Charlotte rejected Trump in the 2016 elections, she said.
So people are upset by what he represents.
He values divisiveness.
We can t let that divide us as we tackle important issues like economic mobility and as we address the issues of last September.
Half of those attending Monday s City Council meeting carried Trump-Pence signs, and waved small American flags.The two sides re-fought the 2016 presidential election after City Council member Dimple Ajmera said on a television show last week that Trump voters shouldn t be on City Council or in the mayor s race controversial comments that she has backed repeatedly.Her campaign manager, Dan McCorkle, attended the meeting, waving his own pro-Ajmera signs.
McCorkle told Trump supporters that Hillary Clinton received more than 70 percent of the vote in the city of Charlotte.LIBERAL BUZZWORDS WE VE COME TO EXPECT:Sebastian Feculak spoke at the council s public forum.
I wanted to applaud Dimple for standing up for equity and unity, he said.
You are welcome here no matter what.
Our politics are not for xenophopia, racism or sexism.
If the Republican Party won t hold them accountable, I m glad our leaders will.
VIA: CHARLOTTE OBSERVER