In a video that everyone should see, GQ special correspondent Keith Olbermann had strong words for Donald Trump in response to his refusal to accept defeat if Hillary Clinton wins on Election Day.During the debate in Las Vegas last night, moderator Chris Wallace asked Trump point-blank if he will accept the results of the election.
Trump replied by saying that he will have to look at it at the time and that I will keep you in suspense.
In other words, Trump is leaving open the possibility that he will reject the results on Election Day and refuse to concede defeat because he thinks he will be cheated of victory, which gives his rabid supporters the opening to follow through on their threats of bloody violence if the election doesn t go their way.Trump s insistence that the election is rigged and his refusal to say that he will accept the results and bow out with dignity like every other losing presidential candidate has done throughout American history is a threat to our democracy and the public safety.And Keith Olbermann was so outraged by Trump s debate answer that he exploded in righteous condemnation.Olbermann said Trump s remarks make him ineligible to run for president and told Trump to burn in hell for undermining our sacred democratic tradition of peaceful transfer of power.
It was the first time in American history, through dozens of venomous painful campaigns and a series of impossibly close elections, the first and only time that a candidate of a major party had violated the fundamental precept of our democracy.
It shakes every one of our freedoms, it mocks every dead American soldier, it spits in every sacrifice made under our flag.
It has no comparison, Olbermann continued, citing Al Gore, Andrew Jackson, and Samuel Tildon as examples of candidates who conceded defeats after close nasty elections.
It foments revolution.
It was and is the moral equivalent of treason.
And this time it slipped passed no one.
Not the moderator, not Fox News, not even Breitbart.com.
No one.
It was not a flash of anger from a man who gets angry once an hour.
It was not another slab of red meat thrown to his crazed supporters.
It was not another outrageous statement to throw up against the wall in this cheap reality game show version of a presidential campaign.
He meant it!
He means it!
Olbermann made it clear that Trump is a danger to our values and Constitution and he only got angrier as he outed Trump as the unpatriotic sore loser that he is.
Donald Trump is not invested in Democracy!
Donald Trump is not invested in our Constitution!
Donald Trump is not invested in America!
Donald Trump is not invested in preventing people from being killed on the streets after an election like this were a Third World police state!
Burn.
In.
Hell!
In fact, Trump is so dangerous now that Olbermann called upon Republican leaders to to do everything within legal means to end Trump s candidacy because if they do not, they are responsible for whatever happens on Election Day and after.
This is bigger than who is the next president of who is the next RNC chair or who is the next Speaker of the House, Olbermann declared.
This is our democracy imperiled from within by a man you have permitted to speak for you.
Compel him to withdraw!
Now!
Litigate against him, find enough doctors and have him declared psychiatrically incompetent.
At minimum, cut off his funding completely and denounce him in the strongest possible terms because this nightmare, this fascist, this Trump is now your responsibility He must not be allowed the opportunity to keep us in suspense.
Here s the video via Twitter.NEW: after he again subverts the sanctity of our elections, my message to @realDonaldTrump: Burn.
In.
Hell.
pic.twitter.com/q2gvPAgq9P Keith Olbermann (@KeithOlbermann) October 20, 2016Donald Trump is insane and his supporters are insane enough that they may end up committing acts of bloody violence whether Trump concedes or not.
That s how deranged they are because of Trump s rhetoric.The Republican Party needs to be severely punished at the polls for this on Election Day.
They need to lose by a landslide to end this extremism and bloodthirstiness once and for all.Featured Image: Screenshot