Donald Trump does not care about Jewish people.
If he did, he would have strongly condemned anti-Semitism long ago instead of pandering to groups that commit it.In cities across the country on Monday, Jewish community centers were evacuated after receiving bomb threats.This is yet another escalation of the attack on Jewish people in America since Trump was elected in November.
Hate crimes are on the rise, and so is anti-Semitism.
Trump has been repeatedly called upon to condemn anti-Semitism but he has refused to do so or only weakly does so because he would lose his supporters on the extreme right-wing.On Tuesday, a full day after the bomb threats, Trump finally made a short statement pathetically denouncing anti-Semitism.
The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil, Trump said.Of course, Trump has contributed to this hate by ignoring it and has insulted Jews ever since taking office a month ago.Shortly after Trump s late statement, Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect Executive Director Steven Goldstein scolded Trump in a statement.
The President s sudden acknowledgement is a Band-Aid on the cancer of anti-Semitism, he began.
His statement today is a pathetic asterisk of condescension after weeks in which he and his staff have committed grotesque acts and omissions reflecting anti-Semitism, yet day after day have refused to apologize and correct the record.
Make no mistake: The Antisemitism coming out of this Administration is the worst we have ever seen from any Administration.The White House repeatedly refused to mention Jews in its Holocaust remembrance, and had the audacity to take offense when the world pointed out the ramifications of Holocaust denial.
And it was only yesterday, President s Day, that Jewish Community Centers across the nation received bomb threats, and the President said absolutely nothing.When President Trump responds to anti-Semitic proactively and in real time, and without pleas and pressure, that s when we ll be able to say this President has turned a corner.
This is not that moment.
.
@POTUS @realDonaldTrump do not make us Jews settle for crumbs of condescension.
What are you going to do about #Antsemitism in @WhiteHouse pic.twitter.com/95Z5GP1OBc AnneFrankCenter(US) (@AnneFrankCenter) February 21, 2017Trump s campaign was heavily supported by Nazis and Trump even hired a Nazi by making Steve Bannon his top adviser.
So while Trump s statement on Tuesday is a start, it s not enough because his anti-Semitic supporters still believe he is one of them and that he doesn t really believe what he s saying when he condemns them.
That s because Trump s statement was weak and his previous actions and words make it clear that he is not a friend to Jews.Featured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images