Far-right conservative and resident anti-Semitic bigot, Ann Coulter, has harsh words for Hillary Clinton.
Of course, Coulter hasn t liked anything any Democrat has ever done in the whole entire history of everything, and has never been afraid to say so.
This, however, is way over the line of gross, sick and disgusting, even for someone like Coulter.She compared Hillary to Hitler.
Hitler comparisons are nothing new and fly all over the place from both the left and the right.
Coulter, however, managed to combine her anti-Semitism with her ugly Hitler comparison to ask a question about where Bernie Sanders supporters were on Night 2 of the DNC:Bernie Sanders is Jewish.
By asking if Hillary had his followers gassed, she s saying that Hillary is at least as horrific as Hitler, if not more so since she s not our president yet.
It s also a not-so subtle dig at both Bernie and his supporters.There are just no words to describe how twisted that is.
It s not just an offensive slam against a presidential candidate.
It s an offensive slam to everyone who survived the Holocaust, who lost loved ones in the Holocaust, who are descended from Holocaust survivors, and who witnessed the Holocaust.It s worse than offensive, actually.
It s abhorrent.
It s repugnant.
It s repulsive.It s also classic Ann Coulter, which tells us something about her character.Coulter is a Trumpette, meaning she s all but in love with Donald Trump and everything he stands for, including his dangerous hate.
She ll say anything hateful to a) take down his opponents, and b) make sure he notices her.Coulter s anti-Semitism runs very deep in her black and shriveled heart.
She links to, and regularly cites, an alt-right website known as VDARE, which is a white supremacist site with strong anti-Semitic undertones.
She also got upset with all the talk about Israel during one of the GOP debates, and she said that Jews are just Christians in need of perfection back in 2007: That is what Christians consider themselves: perfected Jews.
If ever there was someone who needs to get lost and stay lost, it s Coulter.
Asking if Hillary had Bernie s supporters gassed, as though she threw them into gas chambers because they were a threat to her, goes way beyond the boundaries of pretty much everything.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images