While nearly every governor in the country is either looking for ways to take healthcare away from their citizens, or at the very least, shying away from President Obama s signature legislation, California s governor, Jerry Brown, is about to make it bigger.
Not just bigger, though, he s opening it to *gasp* undocumented immigrants.The legislation directs California to negotiate a waiver with the federal government to expand coverage to a population that was intentionally carved out from Obamacare during the law s drafting.
The California proposal is sure to receive strong opposition from anti-immigration forces and could reignite a fierce health reform controversy in the Obama administration s final months.The plan s supporters say there s no reason undocumented immigrants should be barred from the exchanges if they can afford a plan without federal aid.
The proposal, they argue, could help spur enrollment among mixed-status families with a combination of legal residents and undocumented immigrants who may have been reluctant to purchase health insurance because of misguided fears about deportation.Source: PoliticoThis is a pretty gutsy move in an election year where immigration is front and center.
It s sure to anger all of the Trump voters, who are looking forward to the imaginary wall the billionaire claims to want to build.
Like clockwork, they re taking their complaints to Twitter:Corrupt as Hillary&Obama is Jerry Brown!
California liberals will soon want a bail out like Detroit while they give illegals Obamacare!
Mary carr (@Marycar08639249) June 8, 2016 California lawmakers try to extend ObamaCare to illegal immigrants via the @FoxNews app Fuck #jerrybrown https://t.co/5RSsr7Qoci (@casello_tony) June 6, 2016California Moves Toward Extending Obamacare to Illegal Immigrants- Really?????
Who is paying for this #JerryBrown ????
Nancy (@NancyLovesDean) June 4, 2016Actually, Nancy, the immigrants would be paying for it.
It s a much better deal than we have now.
When undocumented immigrants get sick, they don t have a lot of options.
Many go to emergency rooms, where taxpayers often get stuck with the bills.
This would take the burden off of taxpayers.
It would also expose fewer people to contagious diseases after all, healthcare is in the public interest.
Jerry Brown knows this.
I m not sure why Republicans don t.It s pretty understandable that Republicans would be upset.
They ve been telling voters for years that Obama wanted to include undocumented immigrants and now they re saying that about Hillary Clinton.California s legislation might not pass federal standards.
So far, that s the only roadblock.
If it does, look for the Obamacare expansion to take place possibly as early as next year.Featured image via Justin Sullivan with Getty Images.