Donald Trump s Attorney General just got schooled on the Constitution.Earlier this week, Jeff Sessions bitched about a judge on an island in the Pacific having the power to block an executive order.
I really am amazed that a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific can issue an order that stops the President of the United States from what appears to be clearly his statutory and constitutional power, Sessions said.Of course, Sessions is a hypocrite because he cheered on judges who blocked executive orders issued by President Obama.But because the order was issued by his rich white boss, Sessions is all of a sudden complaining.Judge Derrick Watson stood up to Trump and his racist administration a couple months ago by blocking parts of the immigration ban that barred Muslims from certain nations from entering the country.
Trump s ban caused international chaos and violated the civil rights of thousands.Hawaii is not merely an island in the Pacific, however.
It s also an official state under the same Constitution that Jeff Sessions and Donald Trump violate on a daily basis.In the Constitution, the founding fathers created the Judicial Branch of our government to serve as a check on executive and legislative power.
The judiciary has the power to review executive orders and laws and can block and strike them down if they are found to be unconstitutional.Judge Watson exercised his judicial power.Sessions statement is a disgraceful attempt to undermine the judicial branch.Hawaii Attorney General Dougal Chin fired back at Sessions on Thursday by explaining how the Constitution works.
President Trump previously called a federal judge in California a so-called judge.
Now U.S. Attorney General Sessions appears to dismiss a federal judge in Hawaii as just a judge sitting on an island in the Pacific.
Our Constitution created a separation of powers in the United States for a reason.
Our federal courts, established under Article III of the Constitution, are co-equal partners with Congress and the President.
It is disappointing Sessions does not acknowledge that.
Indeed, America needs an Attorney General who actually understands the Constitution, and Sessions clearly does not.One of Sessions Justice Department lackeys even tried to pathetically clarify the offensive remarks.
Hawaii is, in fact, an island in the Pacific a beautiful one where the Attorney General s granddaughter was born.
The point, however, is that there is a problem when a flawed opinion by a single judge can block the President s lawful exercise of authority to keep the entire country safe.
Wrong.
If Trump and his administration think the ruling is flawed then they should seek opinions from higher courts.
That s how the system works.
The White House and Justice Department can t just ignore a court ruling because they disagree with it.
Also, national security should not be used as an excuse to ignore the Constitution.
That s a slippery slope to tyranny.
If that excuse were acceptable Trump and Sessions would use it all the time to justify anything and everything they do.Jeff Sessions should be embarrassed for attacking the judicial branch the way he did and he definitely deserved the humiliation he has been receiving.
Frankly, he should resign in disgrace.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images