When House Democrats staged a 26-hour sit-in to protest the House s refusal to take up anything having to do with gun legislation, most people probably didn t expect the GOP to throw a tantrum, and then take their balls and go home.
However, after the humiliation of the latest fruitless Benghazi panel, you d think that they d be a little more skittish about launching more investigations that are politically motivated.
You d be wrong.
They re about to do it again.House GOP leaders are looking at launching a frivolous investigation, this time into the House Democrats who were involved in last month s sit-in, to determine whether they should be punished for it.
Republicans just can t get past the idea that something is only American, is only patriotic, if they agree with it.
Very little is more patriotic than civil disobedience, and that s what the sit-in was.Republicans weren t so quick to jump to investigating Ted Cruz when he and a small cadre of Senate members shut down the entire government for 16 days because of Obamacare, or that Tea Partiers have disrupted other business in both the House and the Senate.
They and their minions will say that s because Cruz & Co., and every other Republican, didn t break any rules, and House Democrats did.But at least the Democrats didn t bring the entire government to a standstill.
It s only when Democrats disrupt Congress that it s a problem.House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy even said: Members of Congress (need) to adhere to the rules and the decorum of what is expected of being on the floor.
What an odd interest in adhering to the rules all of a sudden.
This is the GOP that s been having all sorts of fun passing closed rules to block amendments.
In fact, they broke the record for the most closed rules in Congress.
While the party in power can change the rules and make rules all they want (or, at least, that s how that power seems to be used), the House GOP has never shown any interest in actually doing things the right way.McCarthy believes that this isn t what democracy should look like, and claimed he d never seen such blatant flouting of the rules.
Oh, please.
What absolute bullshit.Nevertheless, they re looking into whether Democrats intimidated the floor staff to break decorum rules so they could engage in a purely political stunt, the purpose of which was to line their coffers with campaign cash.
Those are ridiculous allegations on their face.
Like Hillary Clinton can t possibly be innocent in Benghazi, House Democrats can t possibly have actually done this to try and spur movement on gun legislation.Because that would make the GOP look worse than they already do.Because they can t have this black mark on their record in an election year.Because admitting a mistake and making good-faith efforts to fix it and move forward just aren t the GOP s style.Because the GOP is more about political stunts these days than actually working for the people.That s what Benghazi is for them a political stunt intended to try and polish an image that s so badly tarnished it s permanently black.Democrats, and the public in general, are sick to death of Congress refusing to do anything anything at all about gun violence in this country.
They don t even want to fund research into gun violence as a public health issue because they believe all such research will be politically biased against guns and gun owners.
The GOP is too far up the NRA s ass now to be saved.It s a shame Republicans can t see past their own haughty, disgustingly dark brown noses with the NRA brands on them.
They might actually have a chance to remain politically relevant if they d stop with the stunts, plus they d actually be working for the people!
Imagine that!Featured image by T.J. Kirkpatrick/Getty Images