Trump s campaign has been desperately trying to win over all the minority groups it has spent the last several months offending and excluding, and that was obvious after the pandering we saw Trump do at the Republican National Convention.Not only did Trump s daughter Ivanka talk about the gender wage gap to target women, but Trump also gave a shout-out to the LGBT community after basically ignoring them during his campaign.
Regardless of these efforts to expand his reach, we all know who Trump s primary fanbase is: white men.While it s obvious to most of us just why conservative white males flock to Trump to champion their racist, misogynistic views of the world, congressman Sean Duffy (R-WI) had a completely different theory to why Trump is so popular for this demographic white men have been neglected in politics up until Trump.
In an interview with CNN, Duffy explained that it was because FINALLY, white men had a candidate that spoke to them.
Referencing Trump s closing speech at the RNC, Duffy said: I think what a lot of people want, the greatest line of the speech was when he pointed at the camera and said, I m going to fight for you.
There are so many people who feel like they ve been left aside.
There s a viewpoint that says, I can fight for minorities, and I can fight for women, and if you get that, you make up a vast majority of the voting block and you win.
And white males have been left aside a little bit in the politics of who speaks to them.White males have been left aside a little bit in the politics of who speaks to them not in regard to the economy and culture but who speaks to them politically.
Donald Trump is, I think, speaking across a wide breadth of people in a way that I think you re going to see these numbers pop.
You can watch this cringe-worthy segment below:.
@RepSeanDuffy: White males have been left aside a little bit in the politics of who speaks to them #RNCinCLE https://t.co/tcE7ntFYNE New Day (@NewDay) July 22, 2016The hosts were pretty much left speechless that Duffy would seriously say something this stupid out loud and on television.
Duffy actually, with confidence, said that white men have finally found a candidate that plays to their concerns nevermind the fact that 80% of Congress was composed of white males in 2015, despite that they are only 31% of the American population!This is such a horrific example of someone oblivious to white male privilege.
And if anyone understands how underprivileged white men are in this country, surely it s Duffy, who once complained about how he s struggling to make ends meet on his measly $174,000 per year salary.Featured image via screenshot