We can expect another angry, weeks-long tantrum from Donald Trump after Meryl Streep s speech at the Human Right s Campaign s 2017 Greater New York Gala Dinner on Saturday.
Suddenly, at one point in the 20th century, for reasons I can t possibly enumerate in my two remaining minutes, the clouds parted.
Something changed, Streep said, speaking of the advances in civil rights we have made in recent history.
For the first time in 39,999 years, women began to be regarded as, if not equal, at least deserving of equal rights.
Men and women of color demanded their equal rights.
People of sexual orientation and gender identification outside the status quo also demanded equal regard under the law.
But then she turned her eye toward an orange, thin-skinned coward who threatens to undo decades and decades or work: Which brings us to now.
We should not be surprised that fundamentalists, of every stripe, are exercised, and fuming.
We should not be surprised that these profound changes come at a steeper cost than we originally though.
If we live through this precarious moment- if his catastrophic instinct to retaliate doesn t lead us to nuclear winter, we will have much to thank our current leader for.
He will have woken us up to how fragile freedom is.
The whip of the executive, through a Twitter feed, can lash and intimidate, punish and humiliate, delegitimize the press and imagined enemies with spasmodic regularity and easily provoked predictability, she told the crowd.Streep recently sent Trump into a rage fit after her speech at the 2017 Golden Globes when she went for Trump s throat over his decision to mock a disabled reporter s condition: This instinct to humiliate, when it s modeled by someone in the public platform, by someone powerful, it filters down into everybody s life, because it kinda gives permission for other people to do the same thing.
Disrespect invites disrespect, violence incites violence.
And when the powerful use their position to bully others, we all lose.
Trump has been very stressed lately with his Muslim ban dying in multiple courts and all.
We can probably expect The Donald to cheer himself up by attacking Streep again, which he seems to think is his job.
Watch some clips from her speech below:Sing for us all, Meryl Streep.
?
@HRC pic.twitter.com/yNqrZpOUI6 Jordan Roth (@Jordan_Roth) February 12, 2017Meryl Streep pays tribute to LGBTQ pioneers and those on the front lines of fighting for civil rights.
pic.twitter.com/J6PdfbVTDm Raymond Braun (@raymondbraun) February 12, 2017Featured image via screengrab