Donald Trump may have campaigned on a promise to bring back jobs, but it doesn t seem like he intends to fill those jobs with American workers, and neither do his children.
Trump s son, Eric Trump, is the owner of a winery in Virginia and he just asked the government to let him staff his vineyard with foreign workers.Trump Vineyard Estates petitioned the Department of Labor to bring in six foreign workers to fill positions at the winery.
Ironically, he wants to do this through the temporary work visa program known as H-2.
His father railed against this program during the campaign despite having exploited it himself for years.Trump s businesses, which include various hotels, have reportedly gotten permission from the federal government to bring in 263 temporary foreign workers over the years.Earlier this month, Trump asked for permission to hire 45 foreign workers to staff his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida as waiters, waitresses, and housekeepers.
Trump defended his move by arguing that he just can t find people here in the states to fill these positions.
But CareerSource Palm Beach County, a nonprofit job placement agency, tells a very different story.
We have hundreds of qualified candidates and hundreds of job orders for various hospitality positions such as servers, chefs, cooks, bartenders, housekeeping, guest services, spa services, recreation, maintenance and more, CareerSource spokesman Tom Veenstra said.It is damn near impossible to believe that Trump s vineyard can t manage to find six people in Virginia looking for work.
The idea is absurd.
In Palm Beach County, approximately 35,766 were searching for work in October and VareerSource said Trump has only ever hired one person through their agency.
Temporary foreign workers offer the added benefit of being willing to work for minimal pay and in difficult working conditions.
In other words, you can pay them less and treat them worse than Americans.
What a way to Make America Great Again, huh?Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images