While vice-president Mike Pence gave a commencement speech Sunday at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana where he was the bigoted governor before joining team Trump, a large group of graduating students walked out.
One of the students wore a rainbow cape, while some of the others who walked out in protest sported rainbow flags on their graduation caps.
Congratulations to a generation of promise.
We are proud of you all, Pence said, according to WNDU.
For this son of Indiana, it is great to be back home again.
Pence praised Donald Trump s executive order on religious freedom and targeted what he called political correctness on campus, saying it was wholly outside the American tradition.
He criticized what he called college safe spaces.
While this institution has maintained an atmosphere of civility and open debate, far too many campuses across America have become characterized by speech codes, safe spaces, tone policing, administration-sanctioned political correctness all of which amounts to the suppression of free speech, he said, according to The Huffington Post.
These practices are destructive of learning and the pursuit of knowledge.
We re glad that Pence believes in the First Amendment because his boss certainly doesn t. Valedictorian C.J.
Pine gave an address prior to Pence s speech in which he called for equal rights and religious freedom for Muslims and people of all faiths.
Our generation must stand against the scapegoating of Muslims, Pine said.
If we are going to build walls between American students and international students, then I am skewered on the fence, Pine said.Father John Jenkins, Notre Dame s president, called for less division.
Too often the love that fires our passion is twisted into a hatred in which we disagree, Jenkins said.Watch:A large group of students just walked out of Notre Dame's commencement during VP Mike Pence's address.
#ND2017 pic.twitter.com/g3dCuqPbXg WNDU (@WNDU) May 21, 2017Last week, over 1,700 Notre Dame alumni signed a letter to express their disappointment over the school s decision to have Pence give the commencement address.While Trump was on the campaign trail he said to ask the gays about his actions to help LGBTQ groups compared to Hillary Clinton.
However, Trump chose Mike Pence as his vice-president, a man who has been hostile to the gay community.Since Pence is an advocate of free speech and is supposedly against political correctness then he must have been really proud of the students who walked out during his speech.Image via screen capture.