When Hillary Clinton called half of Trump supporters deplorables, she said they exhibited racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic views and that such views made them irredeemable at least in the political realm.
The only thing that was wrong with her statement is that she left out a key prejudice among Trump supporters anti-Semitism.It s no secret anymore that with the rise of Donald Trump the United States has seen a rise in anti-Semitic rhetoric, particularly aimed at those in the media who write unflattering (yet unbiased) articles about Trump.According to CNN:The ADL [Anti-Defamation League] says it found 2.6 million tweets containing language frequently found in anti-Semitic speech between August 2015 and July 2016.
19,253 of those tweets were directed at American journalists, the ADL found; the top 10 most targeted journalists (all of whom are Jewish) received 83 percent of them.The ADL says, There is evidence that a considerable number of the anti-Semitic tweets targeting journalists originate with people identifying themselves as Trump supporters, conservatives or extreme right-wing elements.
Thanks GOP, you ve built this!
The party that is pro-Israel is now becoming the party that tells Jewish reporters to go back to the ovens when they report on Trump in a negative light.Journalists such as Politico s Hadas Gold, NYT s Jonathan Weisman, and Julia Ioffe have all faced disgusting and deplorable attacks, with Trump supporters painting ovens and Nazi-era Juden stars and bullet holes on their profiles.Gold, who was also profiled with a Juden star, told CNN:Anti-Semitism has a long history, but this election has brought about a rise in fear of the other and despite being a vital part of American history for hundreds of years, Jews are often still seen as the other.Weisman also spoke to CNN, and noted that it s not just Antisemitism that has up-ticked this election, but hatred all around:I am troubled by the uptick of hate in this country writ large.
I would not be so bold as to say that Antisemitism on Twitter is the worst of it.
I would say Muslims being beat up in the street, Hispanics being ostracized at school those are far worse.
This is just a single manifestation of growing hate and bullying in this country.And we all know whose fault that is.
While Trump has been openly hostile to journalists referring to them as absolute scum and saying that he hates them he has also dog whistled antisemitism through his conspiracy riddled theories as to why he is losing.
When Trump says they are part of a globalist, banking and media conspiracy against him, it doesn t take a genius to see who they pertains to.
Just look back through history and browse white-supremacist websites.
Whenever they are mentioned as holding all the power and influence, it s almost overwhelmingly referring to Jews.Hillary Clinton is right: a large chunk of Trump supporters are deplorables.
They exhibit racism, sexism, homophobia, Islamophobia and xenophobia.
But now we have another notch to add to their belt: anti-Semitism.Featured image via Sean Rayford/Getty Images