Donald Trump just got his ass handed to him by the retired Admiral who oversaw the raid that finally took down Osama Bin Laden.Last week, Trump viciously accused the media of treason and called them the enemy of the American people in a tweet that has since been condemned across the country.The FAKE NEWS media (failing @nytimes, @NBCNews, @ABC, @CBS, @CNN) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2017Well, one critic of Trump s tweet knows all about who our enemies really are and he called Trump out during remarks to a group of journalism students in Texas.Retired Admiral William McRaven is the Chancellor of the University of Texas System, but he is most notable for being the commander who oversaw the daring raid in Pakistan in which Osama Bin Laden was killed by SEAL Team Six ten years after Al-Qaeda terrorists perpetrated the 9/11 attacks.Six years later, Trump is referring to the press as the enemy while ISIS and other terrorist organizations are benefiting from his rhetoric.That doesn t sit well with McRaven, who called Trump s attack on the media the greatest threat to democracy on Tuesday.
The president said the news media is the enemy of the American people, McRaven said.
This sentiment may be the greatest threat to democracy in my lifetime.He then urged his audience to challenge Trump s statement.
I will tell you as journalism majors, as Americans, you should challenge that sentiment and that statement every opportunity you can.
We must challenge this statement, and this sentiment, that the news media is the enemy of the American people.
By attacking the free press like he did, Trump is on the slippery slope toward arresting and jailing journalists for doing their jobs.
Conservatives are praising Trump s assault on the media, but they would have cried bloody murder if President Obama has said the same about Fox News and right-wing media outlets.
Trump and conservatives hate facts because facts weaken their arguments.
Facts and evidence derail their agenda and they know it.
That s why they are waging war on facts.
Getting rid of facts makes it easier to fool the people and easier to force a destructive agenda upon them.As Admiral McRaven said, Trump is a threat to democracy and the media needs to continue revealing his incompetence and treachery to the American people.
Because without a free press, our freedoms would be quickly taken from us a president who fancies himself a king.Featured image via Sean Rayford/Getty Images