This is exactly what Bill Maher had in mind when he invited Milo Yiannopoulos to come on his show.In response to Yiannopoulos being unable to speak at UC Berkeley earlier this year because protesters refused to let him spew his hate on their campus, Maher decided to bring on Real Time.
After scheduled panelist Jeremy Scahill dropped out in protest, Maher blasted the decision.
Liberals will continue to lose elections as long as they follow the example of people like Mr. Scahill whose views veer into fantasy and away from bedrock liberal principles like equality of women, respect for minorities, separation of religion and state, and free speech, Maher said in a statement.
If Mr. Yiannopoulos is indeed the monster Scahill claims and he might be nothing could serve the liberal cause better than having him exposed on Friday night.
And expose him he certainly did.Yiannopoulos attacked transgender people during the show which drew condemnation from the audience and a beat down from Larry Wilmore.
I think it s just sad because these are the same arguments that were used against gay people, like they were aliens who just wanted to f*ck anything that moved, and that s why we should avoid them, Wilmore said.Yiannopoulos tried to interrupt but Wilmore would have none of it and continued schooling the alt-right hate-monger.
There is a difference without a distinction.
It s like when people try and compare gay and black.
Yeah, they re not the same thing, but we share the same invisibility.
People didn t see us in society, and gay people hid out from society.
But there are a lot of the same issues that you have to deal with when you re marginalized.
Proving that he lost the argument, Yiannopoulos went on to insult Wilmore by telling Maher he should book guests with high IQs.
This coming from a college dropout who makes his money by spewing sexism and anti-gay rhetoric despite being raised by his mother and grandmother and being gay himself.Well, Wilmore didn t let Yiannopoulos get away with it.
Hold on, Bill.
First of all, you can go f*ck yourself.
If your argument is that these people are stupid, you didn t hear a word this man said, Wilmore fired back in reference to Malcolm Nance, an intelligence analyst who worked in Naval Cryptology.
Because he can talk circles around your pathetic douchey little ass.
Here s the video via YouTube:Milo Yiannopoulos fell flat on his face and demonstrated why he shouldn t be be booked to speak anywhere ever again.Featured image via screenshot