Donald Trump just posted a provable lie on Twitter that makes him look like a complete hypocrite.In retaliation against the Washington Post for correctly reporting that Trump is displaying fake Time magazine covers of himself at his golf resorts, Trump attacked the Post as fake news and took aim at Amazon, which owns the Post, seemingly threatening the Internet giant and accusing it of not paying their taxes.The #AmazonWashingtonPost, sometimes referred to as the guardian of Amazon not paying internet taxes (which they should) is FAKE NEWS!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 28, 2017Not only is there no such thing as internet taxes, Newsweek pointed out that if Trump is somehow referencing Amazon s legal battle to not pay state sales taxes he is spreading fake news because Amazon lost in court and has been paying sales taxes in the 45 states that have a sales tax ever since.The president may be referring to Amazon s years-long fight against paying state sales taxes.
But Amazon lost that battle, and recently has been adding states where it does pay sales tax.Amazon now pays sales tax in all 45 states that have a sales tax.
On April 1, Amazon began collecting sales taxes in Hawaii, Idaho, Maine and New Mexico, the last four holdouts.
Alaska, Delaware, Montana, New Hampshire, and Oregon do not have a state sales tax.If Trump was, in fact, referring to sales tax in his tweet, the tweet is fake news.Trump s tweet also smacks of hypocrisy since he actually does not pay his taxes.
Trump has refused to release his tax returns and the only tax return we have seen shows that Trump may not have had to pay federal income taxes for two decades after he wrote off a $900 million business loss.Furthermore, Trump is currently suing the town of Briarcliff Manor, New York in an effort to force the town to cut the property taxes on his $38 million Westchester golf course and resort.
Trump currently pays just $500,000, but he is trying to pay only half that amount by devaluing the worth of his own property despite bragging that it was worth $50 million on his 2016 financial disclosure forms.Trump has been disputing the taxes in court for years even though the town already gave him a generous tax break in 2008.
Childishly, Trump sends a check every year marked Paid Under Protest.
Donald Trump is a hypocrite who lies through his teeth.
And by attacking Amazon and the Washington Post, he is attacking Jeff Bezos, who just so happens to be a member of Trump s own American Technology Council.
That will probably change soon.Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images