A new poll of New Hampshire voters could show an alarming collapse for Senator Marco Rubio.
The poll, conducted by a pro-John Kasich super PAC, may change the trajectory of the 2016 Republican presidential campaign.The poll, conducted by the pro-John Kasich New Day for America Super PAC, shows Rubio plummeting to fourth place in the primary here, with 10 percent of the vote.
Most of the polling conducted in the immediate days before the debate showed Rubio in second place.The survey, which was based on phone calls to 500 likely voters (margin of error plus or minus 3 percent), was conducted Sunday, the day following the latest Republican debate.
Rubio came under scathing attack from Chris Christie, who cast the first term Florida senator as too unready, ambitious, and superficial to occupy the Oval Office.By comparison, the most recent average of polling in New Hampshire shows Rubio pulling in 15.1 percent, in second place behind Donald Trump at 31.3 percent.While the super PAC poll may be a statistical outlier, Rubio received criticism on both the left and right for his performance in the Republican debate on Saturday night.
After Governor Chris Christie pointed out that Rubio had performed the same mini-speech twice before at the event, Rubio again returned to his comfort zone.The next day, the nickname Marcobot began circulating for the senator, and video of his exchanges with Christie went viral.A pro-Democratic super PAC constructed robot costumes out of cardboard and appeared outside a Rubio event with the label Marco Roboto.
Rubio's new tag alongs: Marco Roboto +Rubio Talking Point 3000.
"The costumes came out about as well as his debate."
pic.twitter.com/jpswCAKYwX Jane C. Timm (@janestreet) February 7, 2016In a post-debate appearance on ABC s This Week, Rubio tried to do some damage control on his mistake by doubling down on it:Shown a video of his repeated remarks produced by the Clinton super PAC Correct the Record, Rubio said he would pay them to keep running that clip.
That s what I believe passionately, he said.
It s one of the reasons why I m not running for re-election to the Senate and I m running for president.
This notion and this idea that somehow all this is an accident Obamacare was not an accident, Dodd Frank was not an accident, the deal with Iran was not an accident.
Even if the poll results end up being just a super PAC leaning too hard on the scales, the glitch in Rubio s delivery has opened up a line of attack for Democrats, along with his extremist position that women shouldn t be allowed to have an abortion, even in cases of rape and incest.Many in the media have continued to hype Rubio as a winning Republican establishment candidate, even though he only mustered a third place finish in the Iowa caucus.
If he fails to win in New Hampshire, the path to the nomination will continue to be filled with obstacles he never anticipated.Featured image via Flickr