The project was set to begin on March 1st and would have brought environmentally friendly high speed rail to California.But that project is in serious jeopardy after Donald Trump s Transportation minion Elaine Chao, who also happens to be Mitch McConnell s wife, ordered an audit of the $647 million grant awarded to CalTrain to help cover the costs.Despite promising to support infrastructure programs and create more jobs in America, Trump has apparently decided to break that promise in the name of petty partisan politics.Trump has threatened California in recent weeks with funding cuts because U.C.
Berkeley canceled a Milo Yiannopoulos speech.
Yiannopoulos is a Trump supporter and was recently exposed as an advocate of pedophilia.Trump also threatened to defund California in retaliation of the state continuing to offer sanctuary to immigrants.
If we have to, we ll defund, Trump said.
We give tremendous amounts of money to California.
If they re going to have sanctuary cities we may have to do that certainly that would be a weapon.
And Trump apparently pulled the trigger of that weapon on Friday by pulling the plug on the high speed rail project.The project would have converted the rail system running between San Jose and San San Francisco to run on electricity, which would have helped fight climate change.
It also would have created nearly 10,000 new jobs.
It would also have increased the number of people who use the system and would have cut operation costs.Trump made the decision after 14 California Republicans sent him a letter asking him to kill the project.
That s only 14 out of a delegation of 55, 40 of whom are Democrats.
That means Trump willfully sided with the minority party in California on this project.Here are the names of the Republicans the people of California can blame for losing out on this major infrastructure project.
They are each up for re-election in 2018.Dana Rohrabacher Darrell Issa David G. Valadao Devin Nunes Doug LaMalfa Duncan Hunter Edward Royce Jeff Denham Ken Calvert Kevin McCarthy Mimi Walters Paul Cook Stephen Knight Tom McClintockAn audit of the project would certainly be a partisan witch hunt that would take months to complete, thus killing a project that California needs and wants.It would help fight climate change, create thousands of jobs, and start America on the path to catching up with the rest of the world when it comes to bullet train transportation.
This project shouldn t be canceled, it should be demanded across the country.Featured image via Wikimedia