Over the last nine years or so, there has been one cardinal rule in Republican politics: Never, ever say anything good about President Barack Obama.
In a sign that things may be changing, that things might soon start looking a little less partisan, one major Republican one whose career ambitions were thwarted by Obama in 2008 has made a stunning admission.
Sen. Jon McCain said America was better off under Obama than it is under Trump.
No, you aren t dreaming.McCain, once blamed the shooting at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando on Obama Barack Obama is directly responsible for it, because when he pulled everybody out of Iraq, Al Qaeda went to Syria, became ISIS, and ISIS is what it is today thanks to Barack Obama s failures, utter failures, by pulling everybody out of Iraq.
So the responsibility for it lies with President Barack Obama and his failed policies.
Source: LA TimesThe Orlando shooter was American born and raised, but why let an inconvenient fact get in the way?McCain seems to have had a change of heart about Obama s foreign policies, though, at least after five months under Donald Trump.
In an interview with the Guardian, McCain was asked about Trump s foreign policy, specifically in relation to the United Kingdom.
As you recall, after a deadly terrorist attack in London, Trump, rather than offering condolences and assistance to one of our greatest allies, took to Twitter to pick a fight with the city s mayor, who happens to be Muslim.After Mayor Sadiq Khan said after the attack that Londoners need not be alarmed by the increased police presence, Trump took the words out of context to make it sound as if he wasn t taking the attack seriously.At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is no reason to be alarmed!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2017Then when Khan responded, Trump said this:Pathetic excuse by London Mayor Sadiq Khan who had to think fast on his no reason to be alarmed statement.
MSM is working hard to sell it!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 5, 2017While Trump hasn t exactly been disinvited from his scheduled state visit, he disinvited himself over concerns that there might be protests.
In other words, Trump seems to be choosing to ignore whatever parts of the world aren t nice to him.
So far, we have Saudi Arabia and Russia.When the Guardian asked McCain about Trump and Great Britain, he said this:Senator John McCain, a prominent Republican voice on foreign policy, was visibly irked when asked by the Guardian what message Trump had sent to the United Kingdom, one of America s most enduring allies.
What do you think the message is?
The message is that America doesn t want to lead, McCain said, while adding of the rest of the world: They are not sure of American leadership, whether it be in Siberia or whether it be in Antarctica.
Asked if America s standing on the global stage was better under Barack Obama, McCain, a fervent critic of the previous administration s foreign policy, responded: As far as American leadership is concerned, yes.
While McCain isn t always in lock-step with his party, he has become increasingly partisan in recent years.
He endorsed Donald Trump during the election and in last week s Senate hearing for fired FBI Director James Comey, McCain focused only on Hillary Clinton s emails, completely ignoring possible Trump/Russia connections.
Still, this could be the sign of a changing tide.
It only takes a handful of Republicans to realize that Trump is sending the nation on a dangerous course and it needs to stop.