Only hours before he is set to deliver the last State of the Union Address of his historic presidency, President Obama found time to lampoon Donald Trump s chances of becoming president.The Today Show asked President Obama if he could possibly imagine a scenario where Trump wins on Election Day in November, only to receive a ten word quip in response.
Well, I can imagine it in a Saturday Night skit, Obama hilariously said.Then President Obama took a serious tone and warned that anything is possible.
After all, who would have ever predicted that George W. Bush would use the conservative-leaning Supreme Court to steal the 2000 Election?
That s why Obama warned Americans to not be complacent, essentially telling them that staying home on Election Day could give Trump the victory ever has nightmares about.
But Obama was also expressed faith that Americans would reject Trump and his hateful rhetoric.
I m pretty confident that the overwhelming majority of Americans are looking for the kind of politics that does feed our hopes and not our fears, that does work together and doesn t try to divide is that isn t looking for simplistic solutions and scapegoating.
Vice-President Joe Biden was also interviewed by Today, and he warned that allowing Trump to become president would only make America weaker.
He is divisive I think he d have to acknowledge that he s very divisive and that s not healthy.
We always do best when we act as one America.
We always do poorly when we appeal to our fears and our differences.
Here s the video via Today.Trump currently enjoys a wide lead in New Hampshire and has regained the lead in some Iowa polls over Ted Cruz.
It s not decided yet, but Trump appears to be heading toward becoming the Republican presidential nominee and he ll either face Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders in a general election that is sure to be one of the nastiest presidential contests in history.
Some Democrats have suggested that they will stay home if their preferred Democratic candidate is not on the ballot.
And that is precisely the kind of complacency and irresponsibility that President Obama just warned against because that kind of divide is exactly what would let Trump become the leader of the free world with a Republican-dominated House and Senate instead of keeping him in Saturday Night Live skits where he belongs.Featured Image: Instagram