Quick thinking trolls have taken a novel approach to shutting down George Zimmerman s disgraceful gun auction for the weapon he used to murder 17-year-old Trayvon Martin: Bid absurdly high and make it all but impossible for Zimmerman s racist fans to get a legitimate number.Enter user Racist McShootface , who took it upon him or herself to pay a whopping $65 million for the murder weapon.
Only he or she never intended to actually pay.
Instead, Zimmerman s auction has gone haywire.
After Mr. McShootface was deleted, another user named Tamir Rice after the 12-year-old boy who was killed by Cleveland police, jumped into the fray.
Others have joined in as well.screengrab via GawkerZimmerman has had an extremely difficult time selling the gun he used to shoot Trayvon with.
His initial auction was suspended after major outrage swept nearly every corner of the internet.
His second auction was also deleted.
Now his third is being systematically destroyed from within by trolls hoping to make it impossible for real bidders to get the gun.Sadly, it s not for lack of trying.
As Gawker notes, at least one bidder appears to be legitimate and he has already tried to pay $485,000 for the gun Zimmerman sickly refers to as American history.
That paragon of morality angrily lashed out at the trolls who kept derailing the auction, at one point saying that he hoped their children got murdered.
A desire which, for a man prepared to spend $500,000 on a gun used to kill a child, seems believable.Since being acquitted for the murder of Trayvon Martin, who was walking home with a bottle of iced tea and a bag of skittles when he was accosted by Zimmerman who assumed he was up to no good, Zimmerman has had nearly endless run ins with the law.
At times nearly broke, Zimmerman has quite literally cashed in on the murder that made him infamous, by selling anything he can to his disturbed supporters.
While appalling, it was almost inevitable that Zimmerman would get around to selling his murder weapon to the highest bidder.Thankfully, the internet has a nearly endless capacity to troll assholes like George Zimmerman.Featured image via Joe Burbank-Pool/Getty Images