Hollywood police spokeswoman Miranda Grossman said Thursday that the body of 37-year-old Beranton J. Whisenant Jr. was found early Wednesday by a passerby on the city s beach.
She said detectives are trying to determine if the death was a homicide, suicide or something else.
WPTVThe cause of death including whether Whisenant was murdered was still under investigation.However, The Miami Herald reported that the death is being investigated as a crime by the Hollywood Police Department.According to ABC News, the 37-year-old prosecutor s body bore a head wound.In 2013, CNN quoted an expert who called murders of prosecutors in the United States beyond rare, and reported that only 13 prosecutors have been killed in the line of duty in the past 100 years.
Murders of federal prosecutors are rarer still, although it s not clear yet what happened to Whisenant.Whisenant worked for the U.S. Attorney s Office in Miami in its major crimes unit.
He had joined the office in January.
Court records show he had been handling several visa and passport fraud cases.The federal prosecutor s body was discovered lying on the city beach on Wednesday, May 24.
His body had washed up on the beach, and The Miami Herald reported that it s not clear whether he died there.
Whisenant may have suffered a head wound caused by a possible gunshot or other type of trauma, The Herald reported.According to ABC News, Whisenant was married and was a father of three.
Whisenant lived in Miramar with his wife, Ebony, a physician who teaches at Florida International University s College of Medicine, reported Miami Herald.Whisenant was handling some serious cases for the federal prosecutor s office in Miami.
PACER, the federal court record website, lists him as an attorney in 39 cases.
Not all of those date from his time in the U.S. attorney s office, but there are a number of May filings listed.His recent cases focused on illegal immigration issues.
For example, in one recent case, a woman was accused of re-entering the U.S. illegally from Guatemala who had previously been ordered removed from the United States.
In another recent case, a man was accused of buying a fake Italian passport and trying to enter Miami with it.Whisenant was assigned to the Major Crimes Unit.
His LinkedIn page says that Whisenant had only been in the U.S. Attorney s office for five months.According to ABC News, Whisenant had been working on visa and passport fraud cases, according to court documents.
Heavy