At around 12:40 am on Saturday, July 9, two Houston, Texas police officers shot and killed Alva Braziel.Immediately after the shooting, police released a series of statements in an attempt to show that the shooting was justified.
As KHOU reports here:Houston Police Department spokeswoman Jodi Silva said the two officers were on routine patrol just before 1 a.m. when they spotted the man, holding a gun.Silva said when police approached him, the man was pointing the gun straight up in the air.
She said they ordered him to drop it.
She said a bystander did, too.
Who is speaking with the suspect, telling him, Put the weapon down.
Put the weapon down,' Silva said.Instead, officers said, the man pointed his gun at them.Watch the video below, courtesy of KHOU:Newly released video from a gas station near the scene of the officer-involved shooting appears to show Braziel with his hands in the air at the time he was shot.At the beginning of the video, Braziel can be seen walking up the street toward the gas station where the security footage was captured.
He does not appear to be waving a gun or behaving erratically.At the 27-second mark, the first police car arrives on the scene.
According to police they were just driving by and saw Braziel waving a gun around in the street.
The video does not support this statement.It shows Braziel raising his hands in the air the minute he sees police coming.Eleven seconds after the first police car pulls up, Braziel falls to the ground, his body struck by ten bullets.Watch the security footage below, courtesy of Kory Watkins on YouTube:Police also claim that a bystander was trying to convince Braziel to put the gun down.
The video also casts doubt on this statement.One unidentified witness to the shooting, who posted this video to YouTube, states that Braziel didn t do nothing.
She states: They just rolled up on him.
They said the man was shooting in the air and the police just came up and started shooting.
They just shot at somebody, whoever was walking, they just shot him.
Watch the video below:According to Houston police, both officers involved in the shooting were wearing body cameras.
The police department has not yet released the footage from the officer s cameras.The two officers who pumped ten bullets into Alva Braziel have been placed on leave pending an internal investigation.Image credit: video screen capture KHOU