This explains a report we heard this morning of Putin and Obama seen having a serious conversation at the Global Warming Summit in Paris.
It s being reported that the two leaders spoke of the Syrian civil war and Ukraine.
Does anyone else think this photo is pretty awkward?
This is a huge deal and is basically giving Putin a big reason to go after Turkey.
Here we go!Russia has received additional intelligence confirming that oil from deposits controlled by Islamic State (IS, formerly ISIS/ISIL) goes through Turkey on an industrial scale, President Vladimir Putin said speaking on the sidelines of the climate change summit in Paris.Moscow has grounds to suspect that the Su-24 was downed by Turkish jets on November 24 to secure illegal oil deliveries from Syria to Turkey, he said.
At the moment we have received additional information confirming that that oil from the deposits controlled by Islamic State militants enters Turkish territory on industrial scale, he said.
We have every reason to believe that the decision to down our plane was guided by a desire to ensure security of this oil s delivery routes to ports where they are shipped in tankers, Putin said.Terrorists have been abusing the visa-free regime between Russia and Turkey to move freely, the Russian leader said adding that Ankara failed to address the issue after Russia raised it.
We have been asking [Ankara] for a long time to pay attention to the threat posed by some terrorists active in separate regions of Russia, including the northern Caucuses, that have been emerging on Turkish territory, Putin said.Moscow has asked Ankara to stop this practice, he added, but pointed out that we have traced some located on the territory of the Turkish Republic and living in regions guarded by special security services and police that have used the visa-free regime to return to our territory, where we continue to fight them, he added.Answering a question as to whether Moscow wants to form a broad based anti-terrorist coalition, Putin said Russia has always supported this initiative, but this cannot be done while someone continues to use several terrorist organizations to reach their immediate goals.
Putin admitted he personally was saddened by the worsening relations with Turkey.
He elaborated that problems do exist and they emerged a long time ago and we have been trying to resolve them in dialogue with our Turkish partners.
Putin said he has heard Ankara s comments that it was not President Recep Erdogan who made the decision to down the Russian jet.
However, for Russia it doesn t really matter which official made the decision.
As a result of this criminal campaign our two soldiers died a crew commander and a marine, who was part of the rescue team of the [Su-24] crew, he said adding that Turkish actions were a huge mistake.
Via: RT