Two avid Democrats took to Twitter this week to bring a little more public exposure to an issue far too many people are beginning to ignore: party infighting.
Susan Sarandon and Deborah Messing, women well-known for being champions of liberal causes, ended up in a Twitter battle that could only be referred to as unfortunate.The incident occurred when Sarandon, in an interview with MSNBC, seemed to come out in support of the Bernie or Bust movement that has huge numbers of Bernie Sanders supporters vowing to either stay home or support Donald Trump if Sanders loses the Democratic nomination:Susan Sarandon backing Bernie Sanders is no secret, and certainly there s nothing wrong with it.
Unfortunately, the growing movement inside the Sanders support base to take such a harsh stance of another Democrat to the point that you would cut off your own nose to spite your face by allowing a Republican especially Donald Trump into the White House just doesn t make sense.
The language Sarandon used seemed to say she would go so far as to support Donald Trump, which fellow actress Jamie Lee Curtis just couldn t let slide:I respect but disagree with @SusanSarandon.
A possible support of Trump over @HillaryClinton is dangerous 2 women, minorities & immigrants.
Jamie Lee Curtis (@jamieleecurtis) March 29, 2016Sarandon cleared that up immediately, tweeting back:Of course I would never support Trump for any reason.
If you watch the interview you'll see that's not what I said.
https://t.co/wQk0cMmeyp Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) March 29, 2016No, it isn t. What she said is that Trump would cause a revolution, and when asked what she would do is Bernie lost, she said she would wait and see.
Deborah Messing, another avid Democrat and political activist, chimed in at that point and engaged in a back and forth with Sarandon that highlights the Democratic party s issues with unity, something we re supposed to be better at than Republicans:Susan Sarandon muses tht Trump prezcy wud b better 4 the country thn Hillary.Wonder if she'd say that if she were poor,gay,Muslim or immgrnt Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 2016LOL that I would ever vote Trump.
https://t.co/pnENMgmbvm Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) March 29, 20161-What kind of revolution?!
A WALL?!
#ImWithHer but if it's Bernie/Trump I will ABSOLUTELY support BS.
https://t.co/nqPGCDStCX Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 20162- the idea that Susan Sarandon wud say that NOT supporting Hillary in a HRC/Trump race is a legitimate choice for Democrats, is insane.
Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 20163- There are people who need protections, and B Bernie or Hillary have that as a priority.
Trump does not.
https://t.co/oLueAHCaUe Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 2016To be fair, Messing makes excellent points, but is she attacking an ally?
From the video it seems that Sarandon is only an ally if Bernie Sanders wins, but she again clarifies her position:.
@DebraMessing if it weren't for Sanders & whose interests HC doesn't represent, it is a dilemma.
(2/2) Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) March 30, 2016And again Messing fires back:1-You are not a first time voter.Your position,as a life long advocate 4 the underepresented,is what matters to me.
https://t.co/oLueAHCaUe Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 20162-Your voice is powerful and influential.
You not clearly disavowing Trump implies that u consider him (vs Hillary) https://t.co/oLueAHCaUe Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 20163- There are people who need protections, and B Bernie or Hillary have that as a priority.
Trump does not.
https://t.co/oLueAHCaUe Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 30, 2016Both of the Democratic candidates for president have loyal followings.
Sarandon is suggesting that Bernie supporters aren t necessarily Democrats but Independents and even Republicans.
Her support for her candidate is unwavering.
It s unfortunate that she felt the need to attack Secretary Clinton the way she did, but she is entitled to her opinion.
Messing was also sticking to her convictions, which seem to be more consistent with putting a Democrat in the White House regardless of the nominee.#BernieOrBust is perhaps the most absurd political movement considering if the senator loses the primaries he will undoubtedly throw his support behind Clinton.
Clinton has already proven what she will do if she loses when she not only supported Barack Obama in 2008 but called for a quorum call nomination at the Democratic National Convention that both ended the voting and united the party around a single candidate.The candidates will continue their battle because that s what candidates do.
Their supporters will continue to support them because that s what they do.
If Hillary Clinton should win the nomination and Bernie Sanders supporters make good on their promise to stay home, polish off your passport; you ll have a brighter future in Canada.Featured images by Alberto Rodriguez and Bravo/Getty Images