San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz tore a book from the nasty Democrat women s playbook on Wednesday and wore a black t-shirt emblazoned with the word nasty during an interview with Univision s Jorge Ramos.
In case anyone forgot, Hillary Clinton actually was called a nasty woman by then-candidate Trump during one of the presidential debates.
Hillary and her liberal Hollywood friends turned Trump s remark about her into a fundraiser to support abortion.
The t-shirt was in response to President Trump s tweet criticizing the politician where he referred to her actions as nasty and NOT the mayor.
It hasn t taken the American public long to figure out that the mayor of San Juan is not only nasty , but ungrateful and apparently, someone who just can t get enough attention.
Does she really believe that constantly criticizing the President of the United States is going to help the people who are relying on her to speed up or improve the aid they re getting?
Cruz told Ramos she wore the shirt because it was one of the expressions that the president used to describe me.
I was a nasty mayor, People reported.
When it bothers somebody that you re asking for drinking water, medicine for the sick and food for the hungry, that person has much deeper problems than what we can discuss in an interview, Cruz said.
"What is truly 'nasty' is to turn your back on the Puerto Rican people": mayor of San Juan pic.twitter.com/2GVgJNqmve Al Punto Univision (@AlPunto) October 5, 2017 What really is nasty is showing your back to the Puerto Rican people, Cruz added.The island was recently hit by powerful Hurricane Maria and has been working to restore power and clean water to the territory.Cruz criticized the Trump administration s hurricane response to the island.
Last Friday, the mayor appeared on television in a black shirt with white letters that read, HELP US, WE ARE DYING.
Cruz argued that federal aid had been slow to reach Puerto Rico following Maria, which knocked out power to the entire island.In response, Trump tweeted on Saturday, Such poor leadership ability by the Mayor of San Juan, and others in Puerto Rico, who are not able to get their workers to help.
FOX News