Trump s appointment of Breitbart chief Steve Bannon, along with his decision to have at least two people at the top of his campaign who will let him run amok, has further frightened and infuriated Republicans to the point where they re finally seeing reality about the candidate they put at the top of their ticket.
As the layers of their delusions continue to be peeled back, former Minnesota Rep. Vin Weber says: Look, we are in a terrible position.
The Republican Party has made a mistake of historic proportion and when you do that, you find yourself in a place with no good solutions.
Trump s idiocy has started to affect down-ticket races all across the country, particularly in the Senate.
Senators in tight races saw their numbers drop considerably between August 3 and August 15.
This is good news for Democrats, but the GOP s continued insistence that Trump will, ultimately, work for them is rapidly becoming a pipe dream.It s hard to feel sorry for them over that, though, because they re the ones who stuck themselves with a candidate who can t even run a cohesive campaign.
In fact, Weber sees conniving manipulation in Trump s decision to have three people managing his campaign: We now have a CEO, a campaign chairman and a campaign manager.
That tells me that no one is in charge of this campaign.
Trump is playing these three people against each other.
Indeed, since the campaign manager is still Paul Manafort, Trump could be playing him against the other two.
When Manafort replaced Corey Lewandowski as campaign manager back in June, everyone saw it as a sign that Trump was ready to take on the mantle of campaigning for the general election.
They expected a pivot, effected in part by Manafort.But he s not pivoting, and he won t. Manafort failed miserably there.
Since Trump s strategy of alienation worked so well during the primaries, he can t see any reason at all to change: I am who I am.
It s me.
I don t want to change.
Everyone talks about oh are you gonna pivot?
I don t want to pivot.
I mean you have to be you.
If you start pivoting, you are not being honest with people.
That s a laugh coming from the man who spreads lies as easily as people spread the common cold.
It s even sillier coming from someone who s trailing so badly in the polls that he s reduced to tweeting the ones where he s only a couple of points behind Hillary.His campaign is quickly becoming the only Republican entity that s still mired in the delusion that he can win anything at all.
Hell has frozen over: The GOP is starting to admit, outright, that they fucked themselves sideways with a rusty chainsaw in nominating Donald Trump for president.Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images