The All Lives Matter movement may have just found its new spokesperson.
On Wednesday morning, Rudy Giuliani gave everyone who denies racism more reason to be loud in their cause to ignore social justice issues.
And unfortunately, Giuliani s words were meant to defend the most racist American of all.The former mayor of New York City went on MSNBC earlier today to argue that Trump couldn t be racist, even though Trump has been supported by white supremacists all over the country and has an ever-growing history of racist behavior.
But not only did Giuliani say that Trump is not a racist, he said that NO ONE is a racist pretty much solidifying that he should never be in any position of power considering he does not understand the current state of America or the basic human rights issues that many Americans are facing today.
Giuliani said: Racist?
The last thing in the world Donald Trump is is a racist.
I ve known him for 28 years.
The man likes white people.
He likes black people.
He likes Hispanic people.
He plays golf with them.
Giuliani has obviously forgotten the time that Trump called Mexican immigrants drug dealers, immigrants and rapists, or the fact that Trump wouldn t rent apartments to black people in the past among several other racist things Trump has done over his lifetime.
But it gets worse.
In an astounding, baffling display of white privilege, Giuliani argued that racism wasn t actually a thing.
To say that Donald Trump is a racist is outrageous, and to call anyone a racist is outrageous Then, Giuliani railed against Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton for talking about racism in America and actually treating it as the serious issue that it is.
He said: If she thinks we all have implicit bias, Hillary, I got news for you: I don t. Maybe you do.
I have no racial guilt.
Not a single bit of it.
Which is why I m willing to tell the truth about black crime and what has to be done about it.
Truly, it s enough to make your brain hurt.
Here s a clip of this moron talking:[ad3media campaign= 1240 ]Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images