The occupation of the Malheur Wildlife Reserve in Harney County, Oregon, has now reached the two week mark, and there are no signs of a coming resolution.
Many people want this over and done with, especially those whose lives have been disrupted by the presence of Cliven Bundy s sons and a bunch of other pathetic wannabe patriots.
Well now, the founder of another militia group, the Oath Keepers, has a message for the authorities who are monitoring the situation.Stewart Rhodes uploaded his warning message to the group s website, and insisted that the government better watch out because there will never again be a free Waco, and if they aren t careful there will be a conflagration so great, it cannot be stopped, leading to a bloody, brutal civil war.
While Rhodes and his group are deliberately staying out of the Bundy situation, his message was no less threatening.
In the piece, entitled Warning to U.S. Military and Federal LEOs: Do Not Follow Orders to Waco Ammon Bundy Occupation, or Risk Civil War, Rhodes said: This situation (Oregon occupation) must not be handled in a military or paramilitary fashion, using military assets, military rules of engagement, or otherwise attempting to end it suddenly by use of dynamic assault, resulting in catastrophic loss of life, as has occurred twice in recent American history, with horrific results (at Ruby Ridge in 1992, and at Waco Texas in 1993).
If you do it Waco style here, you risk pushing this nation over the edge into a civil war, because there are no more free Wacos.
This is precisely why, frustrating as it is, these people are still being allowed to occupy this space unlawfully.
The authorities have already suggested that another Waco is exactly what these idiots want.
Rhodes went on to say: Despite that reality of there being no emergency here, we have very good reason to believe that ideologue leftist bureaucrats within the Obama Administration such as within the D.O.J., and their politically minded perfumed prince puppets within the D.O.D.
are pressuring you to prepare to use military assets and military rules of engagement to conduct a dynamic raid.
We hear things.
We ll just leave it at that.
After this warning, Rhodes went on to attack the Obama Administration, as well as President Obama, himself.
We agree, and therefore we warn you to do this right, no matter what the Obama Admin overlords try to demand.
Do it right, or risk starting a conflagration so great, it cannot be stopped, leading to a bloody, brutal civil war.
And do it right, because it is your duty to refuse those orders, under your oath to defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic.
And that includes the domestic enemies now occupying Washington D.C.
Your brothers in heaven are watching.
Do the right thing.
Stand down, and refuse to obey evil, ghoulish sociopaths who salivate at the prospect of watching Americans die on camera, like they watched during Benghazi, he stated.
Tell them that if they want American patriot blood, they need to strap on a plate carrier, chest rig, and an M-4 and go do it themselves.
That s what these numbskulls don t get.
These people are not patriots.
They are criminals.
This occupation cannot go on forever.
Something will have to be done.
While it is understandable that no one wants to see bloodshed, this cannot continue indefinitely.Then again, the Oath Keepers are a fringe group of lunatics much like these Bundy idiots, only much more organized, which also makes them more dangerous.
Hopefully, the authorities aren t listening to a word they have to say, and will move to get these yahoos out of that wildlife refuge so that the local residents can get back to living their lives.Featured image via screen capture from Raw Story