You know, because in fantasyland Republicans never questioned the citizenship of America s first black president.But that s exactly what they did for years and Donald Trump led the charge by going on or calling into Fox News every chance he could in order to demand President Obama s birth certificate.It was Trump who constantly claimed President Obama was born in Kenya even though Hawaii newspapers from the time announce Obama s birth.Trump and his birther fans were finally utterly humiliated when President Obama released his birth certificate to the public.And now that birtherism is coming back to bite Trump on the ass as he tries to convince black voters that he isn t a racist.Part of the reason why black voters reject Trump is because he questioned the citizenship of President Obama simply because he is black.
But Trump wants everyone to pretend he didn t say any nasty things about President Obama and Trump pawn Rudy Giuliani is demanding that Democrats apologize for Trump s birtherism.Giuliani, who has taken to forgetting about 9/11 recently, appeared on CNN with Jake Tapper on Sunday and was grilled because Trump has not apologized for his birtherism.
Many African-Americans say they are still troubled by Mr. Trump having suggested over and over, falsely, that the first African-American president was born in Africa and thus ineligible to be president Tapper began.Giuliani immediately blamed Hillary Clinton for starting the birther conspiracy, but Tapper quickly fact-checked Giuliani, which forced him to blame Clinton s campaign instead.Giuliani then attempted to portray Trump as a hero for resolving the conspiracy, claiming that black people have a faulty memory.
He literally thinks black people should thank Trump for being a birther.But Tapper was quick to remind Giuliani that it was President Obama who resolved the conspiracy by releasing his birth certificate in 2011 while Trump was still pushing his birtherism four years later in February 2015 when he told CPAC that he thinks the birth certificate is fake.
So apparently Trump thinks it hasn t been resolved, thus blowing Giuliani s claim out of the water.
Should he just apologize for this if he really wants to reach out to minority voters?
Tapper asked.Giuliani replied by demanding that Democrats apologize for calling Trump s birtherism racist and went on to bash President Obama.
If everybody apologized for all the things they said in politics, all we would be doing on television shows is apologizing.
Maybe all the Democrats should apologize for calling Donald Trump a racist and calling him all kinds of terrible names and it gets a little silly.
Food stamps have gone up two and a half times under Barack Obama, he added.
He should be ashamed of himself.
Jobs should have gone up two and a half times.
My only point is that many African-Americans are still mad about Donald Trump having tried to invalidate Barack Obama by claiming he was born in Africa, Tapper responded before giving up and moving on.Here s the video via YouTube:Giuliani seems to be forgetting that the recession that began under George W. Bush and the Republicans in 2008 caused more families to need food stamps in the first place, which is why the number of people on food stamps has gone up.
Also, President Obama has set a record for the most consecutive months of jobs created and is actually one of the best job-creating presidents over the last 40 years.Once again, Giuliani gets caught talking out of his ass and he must be truly desperate if he is resorting to demanding an apology from Democrats for Trump s racism.Featured Image: Screenshot