Republicans claim that racism doesn t exist anymore.
But if that is true, why does this sh*t keep happening?
An African-American man in North Carolina posted a horrifying video to YouTube that shows a crazy white lady UNLOADING on him and his family simply because they have skin darker than a freshly-bleached Klan hood.
A volunteer at the Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center at Winston-Salem was captured on video screaming at Isaiah Baskins and his family when they visited the center.Before Baskins began filming, he says the woman called him a n*gger and ordered him to leave.
At the start of the video, the woman is on the phone demanding that someone (apparently security) come up here and TAKE THESE PEOPLE OUT OF HERE.
After she slams the phone, she begins pushing and shoving the man, who simply asks what is wrong with her, baring her teeth like someone just spilled grape juice on her freshly-washed robes just before an important cross burning.
Get your damn underwear out of here, she screams.
Gray underwear.
Apparently, the color of Baskins underwear, which may or may not have poked above the waistline of Baskins pants, makes him a dirty old creep.
She demands that the family be removed because she doesn t want to see it.
On YouTube, Baskins sums up the situation:Went to Baptist hospital for my daughter appointment and went into the family resource center and became a victim of racism before I started recording she called me a nigger and said get my black kids out We wasent bothering anybody I was just taking to someone I just met in the hospital.
After i grap my camera she say my pants and gray underweare keep it real u called me a nigger and my kid little black kids.
Out of no where she flips and put me and my kids out them pushes me and kicks me Racism is still real Wake forest baptist medical center.In a statement provided to FOX8, Wake Forest explained that the woman is no longer a volunteer with the organization: Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center is shocked and appalled at the behavior demonstrated by our volunteer in this video.
We deeply regret this and have apologized to those affected by this behavior.
This behavior does not reflect our identity or our values.
This individual is no longer a volunteer with our organization.Wake Forest Baptist is dedicated to providing an inclusive environment for all, with respect, dignity and compassion.
This commitment is unwavering and reinforced every day by our dedicated faculty and staff.
Watch the woman s insane rant below:Featured image via screengrab