Already demonstrating her inability to keep her mouth shut, Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle seemingly leaked the fact that Trump has made up his mind to fire Sean Spicer as press secretary.
She told Mercury News that Trump s staff have already contacted her and she s in talks to take over once the deed is done.This is news to everybody because the Trump White House has so far refused to confirm rumors that Spicer is on his way out.
Guilfoyle seems pretty convinced.
She spoke with the self-assured tone of a person who has already committed to the job in her head.
I m a patriot, and it would be an honor to serve the country, Guilfoyle said.
I think it d be a fascinating job, it s a challenging job, and you need someone really determined and focused, a great communicator in there with deep knowledge to be able to handle that position.
Leaving nothing to chance, she also took pains to bash Sean Spicer with some ruthless concern trolling.
If you want to be successful and do communications with President Trump, you have to be someone who he actually wants to spend a little bit of time with, she said on the air.
You ve got to insist on getting in front of POTUS, talk to him, and have like five, six minutes with him before you go out there and take the podium, and otherwise you re driving blind.
It has to be somebody with a very close relationship, where there s trust there, there s inherent loyalty, someone who s been there from the beginning, she added.
Loyalty has become a major sticking point for Trump, whose paranoia and sense of alienation has left him with very few friends even among the White House.Adding more fuel to the fire, Guilfoyle (mockingly?)
wished Sean Spicer the best going forward.Spicer was noticeably absent from Tuesday s press briefing.
The last time reporters saw him, he was engaged in a screaming match with Steve Bannon and Sarah Huckabee Sanders.WH comms staffers just put the TVs on super loud after we could hear yelling coming from room w/ Bannon, Spicer, Sanders Adrian Carrasquillo (@Carrasquillo) May 15, 2017Despite having nothing to do with either decision, Trump reportedly blames Spicer for both the James Comey and Russia classified intel leaks.
Shortly after the Comey scandal erupted, Axios reporter Jonathan Swan was hearing that Trump was finished with Spicer.I can independently confirm reporting that President Trump has been sounding people out about removing Sean Spicer as Press Secretary.
1/2 Jonathan Swan (@jonathanvswan) May 11, 2017Guilfoyle, however, may have screwed up her chances by blowing the story open before Trump was ready.
As the New York Times Maggie Habermann points out, one way to lose an opportunity is to confirm it s happening.
Trump, who hates anyone stealing his limelight, has previously torpedoed done-deals after they were leaked to the press out of sheer spite.This is quickest way to end a negotiation with Trumpland, to talk about it https://t.co/lLEYoNw0A2 Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) May 16, 2017It s likely Guilfoyle decided to risk a high-stakes gamble.
The best way to make your case to Trump is through the media and with massive doses of flattery.
The risk is getting too much attention and angering Trump.
Her bet was that Trump would like the nice things she said about him more than he hated that she undermined his decision.
(If all of this seems a bit high school drama, that s because it is.
)Now it is left to be seen whether her gamble will pay off.Featured image via Allison Shelley/Getty Images