Paul Joseph Watson nails it again.
In the video below, Watson does a brilliant job of exposing the hypocrisy of the media and why they are not to be believed or trusted when it comes to offering actual news without a nauseating leftist bias.From Ned Ryan of Fox News You may have heard of the scandal brewing in Washington.
Presidential advisers cutting sweetheart deals with a foreign power, signing million dollar lobbying contracts with that foreign power, bribes being proffered, and the foreign government gained unprecedented access to government agencies and crucial U.S. natural resources?
And what if I told you that foreign power was Russia?Collusion you say?
Perhaps.
Collusion with Trump?
Nope.I m talking about a news story that fittingly is coming back from the dead just before Halloween to scare a lot of Democrats, Bill and Hillary Clinton and Obama administration officials.
If you want to take a deeper dive on this issue, read the book Clinton Cash, by Peter Schweizer, president of the Government Accountability Institute.
But here are the basics.A decade ago, a long-time Clinton Foundation donor, Frank Giustra, sold his uranium company to another firm, Uranium One.
With that deal, Uranium One now owned uranium mines in the western U.S., including Wyoming, with about 20 percent of U.S. uranium production capacity, and about ten percent of the actual uranium mined in the U.S.In 2009, Rosatom, Russia s nuclear agency, took a 17-percent position in Uranium One.
A year later, in the summer of 2010, Rosatom bought majority control of the Uranium One, effectively giving the Russian government-controlled entity proprietary access to one-fifth of the U.S. uranium supply.And then there s that whole phony Trump-Russian dossier story Watch, as Paul Joseph Watson DESTROYS the liberal media for force-feeding their viewers with 24/7 phony Trump-Russian coverage, without having so much as ONE actual identifiable or legitimate source to back up their assertions.
But when ACTUAL evidence is put forth about REAL collusion with the Russians by Hillary Clinton and the DNC for the purposes of affecting the outcome of the election, the media goes silent.Enjoy: