Donald Trump s army of deplorables are viciously attacking First Lady Michelle Obama because she dared to condemn his predatory sexual behavior towards women.On Thursday, Mrs. Obama took a powerful swing at the Republican nominee over his comments about sexually assaulting women and his predatory behavior that makes him totally unfit to be president.
This is not something we can ignore, she said.
It s not something we can sweep under the rug as just another disturbing footnote in a sad election season.Because this was not just a lewd conversation.
This wasn t locker room banter.
This was a powerful individual speaking freely and openly about sexually predatory behavior.
And actually bragging about kissing and groping women.
Using language so obscene that many of us are worried about our children hearing it when we turn on the TV.
To make matters worse, it now seems very clear this isn t an isolated incident.
It s one of countless examples of how he has treated women his whole life.The First Lady also urged parents to reject Trump because rewarding him with the presidency will only send a bad message to children, especially boys.
In our hearts we all know that if we let Hillary s opponent win the election, then we are sending a clear message to our kids that everything they re seeing and hearing is perfectly okay.
We are validating it, we are endorsing it.
We are telling our sons that it is okay to humiliate women, telling our daughters that this is how we deserve to be treated, that bigotry and bullying are perfectly acceptable.
Is that we want for our children?
Let s be very clear, strong men, men who are truly role models don t need to put down women to make themselves feel powerful.
Michelle Obama is no stranger at being attacked for any little thing she does and this time was no different as conservatives swarmed the internet to smear her as much as possible with all sorts of horrendous remarks.
@CNNPolitics @CNN too bad her husband isn t a decent man.
Wonder if she actually knows any.
Oh her!
She s a decent man!
Deplorable Tiffany (@1tiffanyl) October 13, 2016@CNNPolitics @CNN @MichelleObama How do you feel about your sleazy husband flaunting his erection to other women?
Just curious.
FRAUD ALERT!!
(@redco2012) October 13, 2016@CNNPolitics @CNN Michelle Obama is an embarrassment!
I can t wait until your go Deplorable Marmy #DT (@Loofie68msncom2) October 13, 2016@CNNPolitics @benshapiro And exposing her daughters to revolting rappers and music about bitches and ho s that have been welcomed to WH sal (@tevet) October 13, 2016@CNNPolitics @CNN nothing like our own first lady standing in front of millions of you as she supports fraud, corruption n destabilization ?
Trump STRONG (@allabouttrump) October 13, 2016@CNNPolitics @CNN your husband is an insult to all Americans!!
Deporable American (@wendytogo34) October 13, 2016@CNNPolitics @CNN Oh please Michelle Obama @FLOTUS with your fake half cry and faux outrage .don t you have packing to do???
Ferkslaw (@ferkslaw1) October 13, 2016And these are just the tip of the iceberg.Conservatives somehow STILL support Donald Trump despite the fact that he is an admitted sexual predator and creepy pervert.
And in order to defend their hero, they repeatedly bring up Bill Clinton even though he was never charged with committing a sex crime and is NOT running for president.Hillary Clinton was absolutely right.
Trump s supporters are deplorable.Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images