Even the women of Fox News refuse to buy Trump s bullshit claim that he is a feminist.That why when Fox Business contributor Bernard McGuirk referred to the Republican nominee as the ultimate feminist on Tuesday all four women of Outnumbered immediately lit him up for it.Fox host Sandra Smith asked if Senator Susan Collins refusal to endorse Donald Trump will hurt him even more among women, a demographic Trump is struggling to gain support from because he has repeatedly attacked them throughout his campaign and has generally treated them like shit his entire life.Indeed, Trump thinks that women are objects who are nothing more than sexual conquests and incubators.Nevertheless, McGuirk still had the gall to declare that Trump is a feminist because he attacks men and women equally, which drew the ire of the four female hosts around him.
If a woman attacks Donald Trump, he ll attack her back just like he would with a man!
McGuirk continued.
He doesn t look at her as a delicate little flower.
We can t you let you get away with that, Smith said before Meghan McCain gave McGuirk a piece of her mind, informing McGuirk that Trump desperately needs women right now more than he needs white men.
Facts are a stubborn thing.
He s doing very poorly with women, specifically college educated women, which is a demographic that normally just easy for Republicans to scoop up.
He s got you, Bernard, he needs me.
He needs Sandra.
I like you, I respect you.
In all fairness, it s directed at us!
It s not directed at you.
He s already got white men.
McCain and her fellow hosst were particularly outraged by McGuirk s claim because Trump has relentlessly attacked New Hampshire Senator Kelly Ayotte for criticizing his attacks on a Gold Star family who lost their American soldier son when he sacrificed his life to save his fellow brothers-in-arms.
I don t know Kelly Ayotte, Trump said.
I know she s given me no support zero support and yet I m leading her in the polls.
I m doing very well in New Hampshire.
We need loyal people in this country.
We need fighters in this country.
We don t need weak people.
We have enough of them.
Clearly, Trump attacked a woman for rightly standing up to him rather than admit he was wrong.One Fox host concluded that Trump may be an equal opportunity attacker but that doesn t make him a feminist.Here s the video via YouTube.And women overwhelmingly agree, which is why over 70 percent of women view Trump unfavorably and why Hillary Clinton is poised to win the women vote by an even larger margin than President Obama did in 2012.Featured Image: Screenshot