Donald Trump is a misogynist.
We all know that.
He has demonstrated it many times, and anyone with access to cable or the internet has seen the numerous advertisements from Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton s campaign using Trump s own words as we see images of young girls and women with body image issues.
That s to say nothing of the week-long weight-shaming episode he engaged in with the winner of Miss Universe 1996, Alicia Machado, who revealed that Trump publicly humiliated her during her reign for putting on a few pounds, and even referred to her as Miss Piggy.
As horrific as all of those examples are, though, that s nothing compared to what has just been released.
It is a 2005 conversation between Trump and Billy Bush, who worked for Access Hollywood at the time.
Trump and Bush were on a bus, and they were discussing women s bodies.
Trump had only been married to Melania for eight months at the time, but he was going on and on about some married woman he had been attempting to sleep with.
On the audio, Trump s clearly recognizable voice can be heard saying: I moved on her actually, she was down in Palm Beach and I failed.
I ll admit it.
I did try to fuck her, she was married and I moved on her very heavily.
I took her out furniture shopping.
She wanted to get some furniture and I told her I ll show you where you can get some nice furniture, Trump is heard saying.
I moved on her like a bitch, and I could not get there, and she was married.
And all the sudden I see her and she s got the big phony tits, she s totally changed her look.'
He says of women he finds attractive in general: I m automatically attracted to beautiful women I just start kissing them, it s like a magnet.
I don t even wait.
And when you re a star, they let you do it.
You can do anything Grab em by the pussy.
Trump then goes on to talk about a pretty woman who was to greet them at the bus: Woah, woah.
I gotta use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her.
Of course, the Trump campaign is brushing it aside.
Trump himself says in a statement: This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago.
Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course not even close.
I apologize if anyone was offended.
No, this is most certainly NOT just locker room banter at this point.
This is just another chapter in a lifetime of misogyny, of objectifying, bullying, and mistreating women.
If this doesn t show that Donald Trump is a clear sexist who engages in regular bouts of disgusting lewdness and belongs nowhere near the White House, I don t know what will.Listen to his disgusting words below (warning: explicit language):Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images