Sean Spicer is the former communications man for the Republican National Committee.
He will also be joining the communications team for the upcoming Trump Administration, and he is getting a head start by stoking the fires of Trump s ongoing feud with the press.
Speaking with The Hill, Spicer whined about how the media treats Trump.
He began: There s some positive aspects here and there, but largely it still continues to not treat him with the respect that he deserves.
I think for a lot of folks inside the beltway, and inside pundit-world, they don t fully appreciate the understanding that he has of where the American people are.
They continue to mock him in ways, when it frankly just shows the lack of understanding that they have of where the American people are and what they think.
Spicer then went on to whine about the positive coverage of Democrats in the press, saying: There are countless examples of the media engaging overtly or covertly cheering on Democrats and there s no accountability.
But it s also not even frowned upon.
The thing is, though, the press realizes what the Republican Party doesn t, which is that Trump is a petty, vengeful, lying, unqualified, corrupt Russian stooge who has duped just enough Americans in the right states to be elected president.
That does not mean that he is deserving of respect, though.
In fact, respect is earned, not given, and Trump has shown the media zero respect.
Rightfully, they are giving it back in kind.
He has not earned their respect, and therefore should not expect them to roll over and give it to him.Spicer then went on to give the press another reason to be frustrated with Trump, saying that the White House press briefings that they and the American people have become so accustomed to might not be the same in a Trump White House: It will be a daily something.
When I say something, maybe it s a gaggle, maybe it s an on-camera briefing.
Maybe we solicit talk radio and regional newspapers to submit questions because they can t afford to be in Washington but they still have a question.
Maybe we just let the American people submit questions that we read off as well.
This is most definitely vague, and when it comes to vague with Team Trump, that is an ominous sign, most likely.Spicer then said that he had spoken with former White House press secretaries, from both major parties, and said of them: Whether Republican or Democrat, every one of these predecessors has been unbelievably generous with their time, counsel and advice.
The respect for the institution is one that is shared by all of them.
Speaking of former Bill Clinton White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry s saying that perhaps these briefings should no longer be televised, Spicer said: I think his conclusion his points are right.
The second the cameras come on it becomes more of a show than an attempt to be more informative.
So, in other words, they want to cut the American people off from knowing the day to day workings of our own government.
The talk then turned to Trump s insistence on using Twitter for insults, policy announcements, and everything in between.
Many Americans including Trump s own supporters believe he needs to stay off Twitter.
Spicer, however, scoffed at this notion: I think this is nonsense.
I really do.
Because at the end of the day the American people want more than anything else is results.
And success.
And he s delivering already.
And I think the American people the people who have their jobs because of his actions the taxpayers who have watched him save tax dollars, are appreciative, and I m not too sure they re concerned with the means by which he achieves that.
So, in other words, we can look forward to the Tweeter-in-Chief.
We already knew that, though.
Spicer ended his remarks with words of caution to the press: Journalists and everyone in America has a Constitutional right to express themselves or write what they want to write.
But he equally has a right to make sure that the record is set straight, the facts are known, and that people can t just take potshots without being held accountable.
So, this war with the media will continue for the next four years.
Considering Trump s thin-skinned, vengeful, vindictive nature, this could mean that he and his sycophants use the bully pulpit of the White House to bully journalists and dismantle the First Amendment.
Scary times indeed, folks.
#RESIST.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images