Some red state Republican legislators are having severe emotional problems over the idea of a person carrying a bag of weed across state lines from Colorado.
They seem to think that this is some kind of issue that is going to destroy their state with rampant crime.
Oklahoma and Nebraska got so worked up over it, that they tried to force the SCOTUS to shut down Colorado s legal weed industry.The Republican argument is that it s causing crime to come across state borders.
As a result, they petitioned the SCOTUS to force Colorado to shut down their legalized weed industry citing that marijuana is still illegal under federal law.To call this court case a layer cake of profound Republican hypocrisy, would be understating it.
Let s run down a couple important points.Republicans are arguing that the supremacy clause of the Constitution means that federal law completely overrules state law, in regards to marijuana legalization.
These are the same Republicans who HATE the federal government and insist that federal laws on things like guns should simply be ignored or nullified as the confederates like to say.
They insist that state s rights are a thing, even in the face of their beloved supremacy clause.Republicans are A-Okay with things like guns flowing from states with weak gun laws into states with higher gun regulation.
They do not care about the crime, terror, violence and death these cause because the NRA told them they are not allowed to care.
That joint you brought home in your pocket, though, is an outright declaration of war by Colorado apparently.The SCOTUS rejected the case, saying that the states did not try to pursue the avenues available to them in lower courts first.
The Department Of Justice said, Entertaining the type of dispute at issue here essentially that one state s laws make it more likely that third parties will violate federal and state law in another state would represent a substantial and unwarranted expansion of this court s original jurisdiction.
The likelihood of this case meeting any success on behalf of red states is low at best.
The precedent set by some states being allowed to sue to rewrite the laws in other states would be a disaster for the courts, not to mention for Republicans corporate overlords.
The NRA would be in a gasping panic over a state like Illinois or Connecticut suing Virginia over its lax gun laws causing otherwise banned firearms to cross state lines.Featured image via wikicommons