Since the rise of presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump, the GOP has been throwing up their hands in disbelief and trying to blame everyone but themselves for the success of such a horrendous presidential candidate, all while completely ignoring the fact that conservatives have paved the way for a candidate like Trump to succeed with decades of hateful rhetoric and ignorance.Bill Maher expertly pointed this out on Friday night during his HBO show Real Time, when he sent a very special message to Republicans: stop blaming liberals for the candidate you created!
Pointing out several headlines that showed that conservative think pieces have been pointing the finger at liberals, Maher destroyed the concept that liberals condescension and political correctness forced otherwise reasonable people into Trump s hateful embrace.
Maher brilliantly dissed the illogical, rage-driven individuals that support Trump, sarcastically stating that they would vote rationally if not for overbearing liberals, scientists, and historians and nutritionists telling real Americans that they re dumb.
It hurts their feelings when we insult their values with our facts.
He continued: I m sorry you find it irritating when liberals point out that global warming exists or that racism exists or that gay people exist.
But here s the thing: You people were wrong about all that.
Maher also attacked conservatives opposition to facts and reason which has been going on long before Trump entered the political arena.
Maher hilariously joked that liberals were to blame for things like the man-bun and gluten free cupcakes so the GOP must accept blame for the racism and widespread hatred of Muslims, because those are the very attitudes that the Republican party has propelled over the last several years.
They are what is truly to blame for Trump s rise.Maher even stated that he himself has mocked political incorrectness in the past, criticizing liberals for overreactions.
However, Maher said that none of that justifies embracing a dangerous buffoon simply because his lack of political correctness is cathartic.
To a huge round of applause, Maher sent a message straight to the GOP: Trump is your problem.
But somehow the party of personal responsibility doesn t want to take responsibility for this one.
You can watch the brilliant segment below:Featured image is a screenshot