Hillary would never have labeled one of her largest donors, longtime friend, and the financier of violent anti-American protesters around the world an enemy of the state.
But fortunately for America, Hillary s not our president.
Fortunately for America, both the Senate and the House are controlled by Republicans who understand we have a lot to lose if they continue to sit back and let this radical billionaire throw hundreds of millions of dollars at these violent, anti-American groups.
Soros goals are not consistent with those of our Founding Fathers.
His agenda is counter to protecting our freedoms and defending our national security.
It s time our legislators consider taking the same steps as Israel and Hungary to send George Soros a message that we consider him an enemy of the state, and that we re not going to just sit by and watch him force his radical agenda on America.
Israel s foreign ministry has issued a statement denouncing U.S. billionaire George Soros, a move that appeared designed to align Israel more closely with Hungary ahead of a visit to Budapest next week by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.Soros, a Hungarian-born Jew who has spent a large part of his fortune funding pro-democracy and human rights groups, has repeatedly been targeted by Hungary s right-wing government, in particular over his support for more open immigration.In the latest case, Prime Minister Viktor Orban has backed a campaign in which Soros is singled out as an enemy of the state.
Let s not allow Soros to have the last laugh say billboards next to a picture of the 86-year-old investor, a campaign that Jewish groups and others say foments anti-Semitism.Soros, who rarely addresses personal attacks against him, has not commented on the billboards.
But Hungarian Jewish groups and Human Rights Watch, an organization partly funded by Soros, have condemned the campaign, saying it evokes memories of the Nazi posters during the Second World War .
ReutersThere s one big problem with the statement by Soros Human Rights Watch group, Soros admitted he was no friend to the Jews during the Holocaust in a 1990 interview with Steve Kroft of 60 Minutes .
The interview was suspiciously scrubbed from the internet for some time, but has just recently resurfaced.
Knowing there were problems ahead for the Jews, Soros father, who was a successful lawyer, bribed a government official to take 14 year old George Soros in and say he was his Christian godson.
While hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews were being shipped off to the death camps, George Soros accompanied his appointed godfather around confiscating property from Jews.
George admitted it wasn t difficult at all to take part in taking property from the Jews.
Kroft asked Soros if it bothered him?Soros: It created no problem at all.Kroft: No feeling of guilt?Soros: No.Why should Israel tread lightly when it comes to this monster who had no feelings of guilt about taking property from fellow Jews during the Holocaust?Watch:Soros was born in Hungary, they are interestingly, the second nation to consider George Soros to be an enemy of the state.
Fox News When Soros talks of chaos, it s a subject he knows well.
The only question is his involvement.Most everywhere Soros, his foundations or his investment money has gone, trouble has followed.He s helped start revolutions, undermined national currencies and funded radicals around the world.Soros has been convicted of insider dealing in France and fined $3 million, fined another $2 million in his native Hungary.His foundations have been accused of shielding spies and breaking currency laws and his investing strategy has been targeted for harming several national currencies.That s not the story the broadcast networks have been telling about Soros for the past five years.There were 29 mentions of Soros during that time but only one gave any hint at trouble, and that was merely to mention he was still known as the man who broke the Bank of England.
But ABC followed that description up with: That was all legal.
Only a sex scandal with a 28-year-old Brazilian actress gave Soros any negative publicity at all.But there have been lots of negatives in Soros s past as he s spread his influence around the world.
Soros wears criticism like a badge of honor.
I have now come under attack in several countries: in Hungary from Hungarian nationalists; in Romania from the Vatra Romanesca; in Slovakia from the communist party newspaper Pravda; in the Soviet Union by the organ of the hard-liners Sovietskaia Russiya, he claims in Underwriting Democracy.
Soros s Open Society Fund was created in 1979 as a charitable lead trust.
Even its creator admitted his motives were basically selfish and he wanted a tax gimmick.
He did it as a trust for his children While Soros has been known worldwide for his investment skills, he hasn t always managed to stay clear of the authorities.He was found guilty in France of an insider trading case about 20 years ago and has repeatedly failed at having that news pulled from his record.According to The New York Times, in September 2011, a French panel upheld his conviction because he had bought and sold shares of Soci t G n rale in 1988 with the knowledge that the bank might be a takeover target.
He was fined $3 million.His fund ran into problems in Hungary, where Soros was born and lived till his late teen years.
At issue was how he handled an investment into the the country s largest bank : OTP.
His fund was fined $2 million by Hungarian regulators last week for having manipulated OTP s stock price, wrote The New York Times in 2009.