It doesn t get any clearer than this that Iowa Rep. Steve King is a racist.During a story about King introducing Sarah s law, a program that allows parents to check if someone around their child has ever been convicted of sexual offenses against children, cameras busted the Republican openly displaying a Confederate flag on his office desk.Here s the video via YouTube.
The flag can be seen at the 26 second mark.This pretty much confirms that King is a racist who fantasizes about secession.
After all, he is a vicious critic of Black Lives Matter and has always hated President Obama, whom he directly blamed for the Dallas shootings in a post on Twitter.#DallasPoliceShooting has roots in first of anti-white/cop events illuminated by Obama Officer Crowley.
There were others.
Steve King (@SteveKingIA) July 8, 2016Furthermore, King tried to block the addition of Harriet Tubman, a former slave who escaped and became a prominent abolitionist who helped other slave gain their freedom via the Underground Railroad, to the $20 bill in defense of slave-holder Andrew Jackson, who is going to be moved to the back.King claimed that putting Tubman on the $20 bill is racist while he tried to portray his effort as unifying This is liberal activism on the part of the president that s trying to identify people by categories, and he s divided us on the lines of groups, King said.
This is a divisive proposal on the part of the president, and mine s unifying.
It says just don t change anything.
King is also a fan of secession.
When the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union last month, he cheered the vote on Twitter.
Congratulations to UK, especially @Nigel_Farage & UKIP, for your noble & farsighted national decision to #BreExit.
WesternCiv can be saved.
Steve King (@SteveKingIA) June 24, 2016Texas conservatives also cheered the decision and have used it to push their own secession movement.Democratic candidate Kim Weaver, who is challenging King for his seat, told the De Moines Register, Like a lot of Iowans, I m disgusted by his gross insensitivity to the millions of Americans for whom that flag is a symbol of racism and division, and I join them in calling on Mr. King to remove it immediately.
Even Iowa s GOP governor opposes King s display of the Confederate flag because Iowa was a Union state during the Civil War.Indeed, 76,242 Iowa men fought against the Confederacy.
Iowans fought bravely with distinction at the Battle of Wilson Creek in Missouri and many are buried at Vicksburg National Cemetery.
King s support of the Confederate flag is an insult to their memory and the memory of the 13,000 Iowans who died trying to defeat the Confederacy.
It s also disgraceful to the Iowans who were killed by Confederate bushwhackers who repeatedly raided the southern part of the state during the war.Iowa heavily backed Abraham Lincoln and the Union, so Steve King s display of an enemy flag is totally offensive, especially since he is supposed to be a United States congressman.Featured Image: Screenshot