The cops should leave this woman, and all of her people, alone unless they ve done something really wrong, and swerving all over the road because she s driving while intoxicated doesn t count.
Why?
Because driving while rich is apparently a thing in Manhattan, on par with, say, driving while black in Liridona Selimaj s apparently warped mind.A former real estate broker, Selimaj is one of Manhattan s more affluent residents, and she claims that the cops just pick on her and other rich people.
They pulled her over because she was driving a new Range Rover, according to the bizarre claim.
Assistant District Attorney Christopher Mills read off her full statement at her arraignment: You re picking on me because I was driving an expensive car.
You make no money, and you re poor you re picking on rich people.
I had one drink.
I m not taking your test, so take me to jail.
I ve been through this before.
That s right, she thinks the NYPD specifically went after her and arrested her because they re jealous of her status and money.
She does have a prior DWI from 2009, and another arrest that s sealed, so she has been through this before, and she probably thinks those were just due to jealousy, too.
In all her righteous anger, she also allegedly said: How can you say I was swerving?
I m not drunk.
I wasn t doing anything you were saying I was doing.
I was swerving because it was a new car.
The police report says she had bloodshot, watery eyes, was unsteady on her feet, was slurring her speech, and had alcohol on her breath.
She was, in a word, sloshed.
Driving while rich.
The stupid, it burns!
If anything, the police are more likely to leave wealthy people alone and target poor people, especially poor minorities.
It s the same with the courts.
What Selimaj just did was show herself to be the perfect example of how the affluent expect special treatment, even when they ve broken the law.It s also an insult to all the people particularly poor minorities who are wrongly targeted by the police.
Don t tell her that, though.
Remember, she s just a victim.
All rich people are just victims of the law.Featured image by Spencer Platt/Getty Images