Alleged president Donald Trump announced on his Twitter timeline that he and Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed forming a cybersecurity unit and that s like joining forces with a pedophile to combat child abuse.
Russia not only interfered with our 2016 presidential election but they also breached more than a dozen power plants, including a nuclear facility in Kansas.Even spineless Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) has had it with Trump s newest idea.
On Sunday, Rubio took to his Twitter account to unleash a series of tweets to blast Trump s insane announcement.The Florida senator said Putin can never be a trusted ally or a reliable partner.
While reality & pragmatism requires that we engage Vladimir Putin, he will never be a trusted ally or a reliable constructive partner, Rubio tweeted.While reality & pragmatism requires that we engage Vladimir Putin, he will never be a trusted ally or a reliable constructive partner.
1/3 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 9, 2017 Partnering with Putin on a Cyber Security Unit is akin to partnering with Assad on a Chemical Weapons Unit.
We have no quarrel with Russia or the Russian people.
Problem is with Putin & his oppression, war crimes & interference in our elections, he continued.Partnering with Putin on a "Cyber Security Unit" is akin to partnering with Assad on a "Chemical Weapons Unit".
2/3 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 9, 2017 We have no quarrel with Russia or the Russian people.
Problem is with Putin & his oppression, war crimes & interference in our elections, he added.We have no quarrel with Russia or the Russian people.
Problem is with Putin & his oppression, war crimes & interference in our elections 1/3 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) July 9, 2017While it s nice that Rubio blasted Trump s notion of partnering with Putin on cybersecurity, we await the Florida Senator s response to the bombshell report that was published Sunday evening in which the former reality show star s son, Donald Trump Jr., admitted to trying to collude with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer in order to get dirt on Hillary Clinton.
Paul Manafort, the campaign s chairman at the time, and Jared Kushner, Trump s son-in-law and adviser, also attended the meeting at Trump Tower which took place just two weeks after Trump won his party s nomination.A spokesman for Trump s legal team said the amateur president was not aware of and did not attend the meeting which was in his building and attended by his daughter s husband.Let s hear Marco Rubio s opinion on that, too, since the Florida Senator admitted to Russia s interference in our elections.
Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images