Hillary Clinton isn t just looking ahead to the Democratic National Convention, which kicks off this week, but she s also looking at the farcical clown show that was the Republican National Convention.
When RNC speakers weren t busy spreading malicious lies for the purpose of driving fear, they were busy attacking her (and sometimes President Obama).
Overall, very little was said about what they will do, and it made Hillary kind of sad.Speaking on 60 Minutes, she flat-out said [emphasis mine]: I don t know what their convention was about, other than criticizing me.
I seem to be the only unifying theme that they had.
There was no positive agenda.
It was a very dark, divisive campaign.
And the people who were speaking were painting a picture of our country that I did not recognize you know, negative, scapegoating, fear, bigotry, smears.
I just was so, I was saddened by it.
I seem to be the only unifying theme they had.
That s a sad testament to how far the GOP has fallen if there ever was one.
Republicans still can t decide how to unify behind someone as vile as Trump, and the RNC wasn t well-attended in part because of that.
The fact that they can only unify in their hatred of Hillary is, indeed, sad.The only other unifying theme they have is the impending collapse of the U.S., which is something of which the GOP has been trying to convince us since Nixon ran for president.
That s not really new and can t be seen as true unity.
It s dogma.Then there are prominent Republicans like Ted Cruz, who openly refused to endorse Trump even in front of an audience made up entirely of Republicans.
Trump s presence at the top of the party threw a huge monkey wrench into the GOP s plans to take over the country, and now they don t know what to do with him.It d be hilarious if it wasn t so sad.
It d be ridiculously depressing if it wasn t so hilarious.
That s the massive contradiction of the Republican Party they can only agree on how they feel about Hillary.
Everything else?
The GOP civil war escalates.Hillary may well want a real race with a real opponent, and instead she got the three-ring political circus that is Donald Trump and Mike Pence, and the nickname Crooked Hillary.
The GOP is done if they can t figure this out, and it s looking increasingly like they can t.Featured image by Gustavo Caballero/Getty Images