Pope Francis has delivered a strong message to corporate types who exploit people for profit and attempt to cleanse their souls by donating to the church, telling them: we don t want your blood money.During his general audience in Vatican City on Wednesday, in which he railed against the exploitation of working people by feckless employers, the Pope said: The people of God and the church don t need dirty money.
They need hearts that are open to the mercy of God.
It is far from the Pope s first intervention on the matter of unrestrained and crony Capitalism that has come to define (at least) the last thirty years of human history.
Last Summer, the Pope referred to the global dominance of Capitalism s 1% as the new colonialism in a speech in Bolivia pointing to the removal of liberty, human rights and opportunity created by gross inequality and the resulting centralization of wealth and power.
He continued: In this third world war, waged piecemeal, which we are now experiencing, a form of genocide is taking place, and it must end.
Throughout his time as Pontiff, Pope Francis has continued to exercise the message of New Testament Jesus.
A personal show of compassion, and a determination to enable poor and vulnerable people to make the best possible lives for themselves, and the widest possible contribution to their communities.What is so interesting about this though, is that the political party that considers itself the party of God on earth, the Republican Party, asset there delivering the opposite message.Somewhere along the line, Young Republicans confused Atlas Shrugged with the Bible and it s radical right-wing author Ayn Rand for Jesus.
Republicans don t worship Jesus, they worship Ayn Rand.
Republicans don t preach the gospel, they preach The Fountainhead.
Instead of restraining the power of big business to hold unique influence over public and personal life, the Republican party has devoted itself to the opposite.Things have come to such a head, that Republican leaders are now openly denouncing the Pope and his interpretation of the Bible, rather than taking instruction from his leadership and questioning their own.
In doing so, they are by their own definition, committing the sin of Pride and we all know what pride comes before.
A Fall.You can see how The Young Turks handled Pope Francis assault on crony capitalism in the video below: Featured image via Flickr Creative Commons