It s hardly a well-kept secret.
Forty years of Republican policies have proven that they don t give a crap about the people who voted them in.
Progressives know that, but there are still millions of people who are buying the GOP lie.
Now, a GOP candidate for Congress is under fire for being honest.
She told a debate crowd on Tuesday that the difference between Democrats and Republicans is that Republicans don t care whether people are able to make a living, even if they work full-time.In a televised debate just two weeks ahead of the high-profile special election that will fill the vacant House seat in Georgia s Sixth Congressional District, Republican Karen Handel delivered her opponent what one commentator called a gift-wrapped present Tuesday night by declaring her opposition to a livable wage.
I do not support a livable wage, she said, adding that this is an example of the fundamental difference between a liberal and a conservative.
No, that was not out of context.
She doesn t think the people who serve our food or the people who sell you your necessities or the people who care for your children are worthy of having a living wage, and it s not just her.
It s the entire Republican Party.Here she is saying it:.
@karenhandel doesn t want workers to make enough money to livepic.twitter.com/9Gxiahq8Zb jordan ?
(@JordanUhl) June 7, 2017Did you catch her contradicting herself?
She wants fewer regulations and lower taxes so small businesses can create well-paying jobs, but to her, apparently, well-paying doesn t need to be enough to live on.
Also, there s the fact that wages and regulations do not correlate.If Twitter is any indication, she might have just put the final nail in her own electoral coffin.
If there s anything Republicans hate, it s honesty.someone explain, with a serious face, how paying people less creates better paying jobs for people who don t make enough to live on.
John (@johnwjohnsoniii) June 7, 2017It is class war out in the open.
And it isn t Dems waging it.
Steve Douglas (@Duramadera) June 7, 2017That SHOULD be enough to hand the election to Ossoff.
Northernsmasher (@jaharrison763) June 7, 2017Who needs a livable wage ?
Who needs clean air or water?
So proud to be a conservative Karen Handel?
Adam Bernstein (@Iamthebassman) June 7, 2017Are u fuckng kidding me?
U don t support a LIVABLE WAGE?
Why should workers not be able to live to support business so they can thrive?
Linda Di (@lpassionflower) June 7, 2017OK?
so creating more non-livable wage jobs is her goal for small business?
American Monkey (@SAmericanMonkey) June 7, 2017If they are living in the gutter outside the workplace they have no excuse for being late.
Glenn Holmes (@Koalaburger) June 7, 2017Then again, Republicans are heartless and the people who will be voting for her don t give a sh*t about anyone.
Republicans don t believe hard-working Americans deserve a home, food, childcare or healthcare.
Corporations, and the wealthy, though, need their tax cuts and an extra subsidy on top of that.
The truth is that if a business won t pay living wages, taxpayers end up making up the difference through public benefits like food stamps.This particular election has become a symbolic referendum on Donald Trump and in Republicans in general.
That district is generally considered a Republican stronghold, but with ineffective and corrupt leadership in D.C., the Democratic candidate, Jon Ossoff has a decent chance of winning.
While it s too early to get polls from last night s debate, Ossoff s odds are looking much better.Featured image via WSBTV video screen capture