When Cliven Bundy was engaged in an armed standoff against federal authorities in 2014 on his Nevada ranch, Republicans like Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and a host of others threw their support squarely behind the criminal.
Now, less than two years later, his sons are engaged in an armed occupation of a federal wildlife reserve in Oregon and six GOP lawmakers from various states have gone to meet them to applaud the latest criminal act waged by far-right, anti-government extremists.Rep.
Dallas Heard (R-OR) recently brought in a group of out-of-state lawmakers to meet with the Bundy Militia, against the recommendations of law enforcement officials.
The other five Republicans include Reps. Graham Hunt and Matt Shea of Washington; Reps. Judy Boyle, Heather Scott and Sage Dixon of Idaho.
Another GOP fool, Rep. Michelle Fiore of Nevada, took part in the meeting by telephone.
Fiore, if you remember, is the same lawmaker who said she would like to shoot Syrian refugees.
A real gem.On the meeting with the other lawmakers and Bundy nuts she said: It s refreshing to see a representative like Dallas Heard care and lean on the side of citizens, versus our federal government Everyone knows I m a supporter of the Bundy family.
Our relationship is pretty well documented.
To be perfectly clear, she is a supporter of people who have pointed guns at federal law enforcement officials and others who have threatened to shoot anyone who tried to forcibly remove them from the land they are illegally occupying.
By doing so, she, and her fellow Republicans, support the Sovereign Citizen movement the Bundys belong to.
The movement that police officers all across the country have deemed on of the most dangerous threats to this country possibly more so than the Islamic terrorists she claims to be so worried about.According to The Oregonian: Heard confirmed the meeting with the militants, including top leader Ammon Bundy, in a phone conversation.
He described the trip as a fact-finding mission.
Heard said he was worried about violence and wanted to prevent another tragedy such as the shooting last year at Umpqua Community College, which is in his district.
I was concerned that some of my constituents might have been mixed up in this, Heard said.
A good shepherd s job is to take care of all his flock.
So, in order to prevent another massacre by an ammosexual(s), he went and supported with the very people who have said they want to engage the federal authorities in a Wild West shoot out and made videos saying goodbye to their family members?
That seems legit.By meeting with these dipsh*ts, Republicans encouraged their dangerous behavior.
The Bundy hillbillies are already emboldened by their father s success at holding off police officers by threatening to kill them, now they are receiving the same support he did.
The more people applaud their volatile behavior, the less likely they will be to end their asinine occupation of the Refuge.
Furthermore, while it is our lawmakers jobs to represent us, it is borderline treasonous to represent a group of people who want to take over the government.Republicans, always showing how much they love America.Featured image via Twitter