The former CIA Director told a House committee that Obama started to spy on Trump after he cracked a joke about Russia releasing Hillary Clinton s lost emails:Russia, if you re listening Rush Limbaugh reported:The Obama administration had ZERO EVIDENCE that the Russians were tampering with the US election but started listening in on Donald Trump and his top advisers phone calls after Candidate Trump cracked a joke at a campaign press conference!Director of Central Intelligence Agency John Brennan takes questions from reporters during a press conference art CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, December 11, 2014.
The head of the Central Intelligence Agency acknowledged Thursday some agency interrogators used abhorrent unauthorized techniques in questioning terrorism suspects after the 9/11 attacks.
CIA director John Brennan said there was no way to determine whether the methods used produced useful intelligence, but he strongly denied the CIA misled the public.Rush Limbaugh reported:RUSH LIMBAUGH: Did you hear yesterday in all the double-talk that Brennan was using, he said that there was no evidence of any collusion, but there was a basis to start a CIA-FBI investigation.
Now, what would the basis be if there s no evidence?
There s no evidence, but there was a basis.
No evidence!
He s just the latest in a long line of officials in the intelligence community, in Congress, and the Obama administration who say there s no evidence of collusion.Trump-Russians?
No evidence the Russians tampered with votes.
But there was a basis to start an investigation.
Do you know what it was?
Do you know what it was?
Trump s joke!
When Trump said/put out a call, Hey, Russia, maybe you can find 30,000 emails by Hillary Clinton that nobody can t find That joke.
I kid you not!
That joke and the dossier that was totally made up, like Trump hire prostitutes to urinate on the bed that Obama slept it in Moscow.
Those two things are the bases to start all of this.
Trump telling a joke.I ve told you the left has no sense of humor, and they don t. And I ve seen it a thousand times!
People on the left really believe that Trump was sending a message to the Russians to hack Hillary s server.
We were way past that when this happened.
Hillary had already done something with 60,000 of her emails.
Thirty thousand she turned over to the State Department; 30,000 she deleted.
She said they were irrelevant, but they were somewhere.Kim Dotcom was saying he had em or could get em.
Everybody was wondering where they were.
Trump, at a press conference, made a joke, a typical Trump joke, Hey, Russia!
It s the kind of thing I would do, and I laughed myself silly.
That is one of the bases for starting this whole cockamamie thing.
By the way, in all these leaks of Trump phone calls, why aren t there any leaks of Trump phone calls and collusion with Russia?