Johnny Carson must be rolling over in his grave to see what s happened to late night comedy where he dedicated 30 years of his life to actually making people of all political persuasions laugh.
If Johnny Carson had a particular political leaning, his viewers wouldn t have known what it was.
When it came to criticizing President s of the United States, he was always funny but never hateful and certainly never vile.
A lot has changed since then.
It wasn t so long ago that comedians like Stephen Colbert only dreamed of sitting in one of the coveted late night comedy spots like the one Johnny Carson created.
David Letterman s hate for conservatives and Republicans didn t really surfaced until he was nearing the end of his career, and although many wish he would keep his hateful opinions about our President to himself, he is a private citizen now and is not accountable to anyone for his petty remarks.
The big question is, will anyone at CBS hold his predecessor Stephen Colbert responsible for his vile remarks about Trump having oral sex with Vladimir Putin?
Will Colbert s advertisers pull their advertising dollars from his show like they did to FOX News Bill O Reilly, after unproven allegations of sexual assault were made against him?As sad as it was to the world of comedy when Johnny Carson passed away, it s a good thing he isn t able to see how that the hateful and spiteful liberal Stephen Colbert has disgraced and replaced what once was considered late-night comedy.Last night, Stephen Colbert responded to #FireColbert backlash over a crude oral-sex joke he made about President Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin on Monday, May 1.
Trump supporters and others thought the comment was inappropriate and called for the comedian to be dropped from the CBS show.The TV host, 52, opened his Wednesday, May 3, episode by addressing the controversy.
Welcome to The Late Show, he said.
I m your host, Stephen Colbert.
Still?
I am still the host?
I m still the host!
Colbert went on to explain that his scathing monologue was spurred by Trump abruptly ending an Oval Office interview with fellow CBS correspondent John Dickerson.
Now, if you saw my monologue Monday, you know that I was a little upset at Donald Trump for insulting a friend of mine, he said.
So at the end of that monologue, I had a few choice insults for the president in return.
I don t regret that.
He, I believe, can take care of himself.
I have jokes; he has the launch codes.
So, it s a fair fight.
US MagazineWatch liberal bully Stephen Colbert and his childish I don t regret what I said response to his viewers:For anyone who cares to watch Colbert s vulgar remarks, they can be seen in the video below at around the 11:13 mark: