Is it possible the curtain has been pulled back, and the truth about the intolerant Democrat Party is out there for the whole world to see?
Will DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz take the utlitmate hit to keep Bernie fans under control?
When will the media expose Hillary s involvement in the DNC and media s coordinated take down of Bernie Sanders?Bernie Sanders campaign manager Jeff Weaver said his team was disappointed by the emails from the Democratic National Committee leaked through WikiLeaks, which seemed to reveal staff in the party working to support Hillary Clinton.
Someone does have to be held accountable, Weaver said during an interview with ABC News.
We spent 48 hours of public attention worrying about who in the [Donald] Trump campaign was going to be held responsible for the fact that some lines of Mrs. Obama s speech were taken by Mrs. Trump.
Someone in the DNC needs to be held at least as accountable as the Trump campaign.
We have an electoral process.
The DNC, by its charter, is required to be neutral among the candidates.
Clearly it was not, Weaver said, responding for the first time to the growing controversy.
We had obviously pointed that out in a number of instances prior to this, and these emails just bear that out.
Another member of Sanders staff, Rania Batrice put it this way: Everything our fans have been saying and they were beaten down for and called conspiracy theorists and now it s in black and white.
One of the newest leaks is an email thread about Sanders faith.
Sanders, who is Jewish, did not bring up his religious faith much during the campaign trail and some DNC staffers were hoping he would.
But the email itself does not mention Sanders by name, so readers are to infer that it may have been him.
But it remains to be seen if these leaked emails are fakes.DNC CFO Brad Marshall sent an email, with the blunt subject line No Sh*t, to DNC communications director Luis Miranda, CEO Amy Dacey, and deputy communications director Mark Paustenbach, discussing if Sanders would be bringing up his faith during the Kentucky and West Virginia primaries: It might may no difference, but for KY and WVA can we get someone to ask his belief.
Does he believe in a God.
He had skated on saying he has a Jewish heritage.
I think I read he is an atheist.
This could make several points difference with my peeps.
My Southern Baptist peeps would draw a big difference between a Jew and an atheist.
Dacey replied with a simple Amen about the topic.
Sanders had discussed his Jewish heritage in the past, but has remained mum on all other religious aspects of his life.
Marshall told The Intercept he did not recall writing this email and it wasn t necessarily geared toward Sanders.
Uproxx Via: Slate And InterceptThe email dump comes at a crucial time, just days before the party s national convention in Philadelphia, with thousands of delegates representing both campaigns gathering from across the country.
Weaver and several other members of the Sanders staff have said they are worried the news could disrupt the goals of the convention.Weaver said the emails showed misconduct at the highest level of the staff within the party and that he believed there would be more emails leaked, which would reinforce that the party had its fingers on the scale.
Everybody is disappointed that much of what we felt was happening at the DNC was in fact happening, that you had in this case a clear example of the DNC taking sides and looking to place negative information into the political process.
ABC NewsDEMOCRATS WILL ATTEMPT TO FIX CRISIS BY DISALLOWING Blabbermouth Schutlz from speaking at the DNC but will that be enough?Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz will not speak at or preside over the party s convention this week, a decision reached by party officials Saturday after emails surfaced that raised questions about the committee s impartiality during the Democratic primary.The DNC Rules Committee on Saturday named Rep. Marcia Fudge, D-Ohio, as permanent chair of the convention, according to a DNC source.
She will gavel each session to order and will gavel each session closed.
She s been quarantined, another top Democrat said of Wasserman Schultz, following a meeting Saturday night.The Democrat familiar with the decision said it was done in hopes of preventing chaos on the convention floor among Sanders supporters.
Via: CNN