Now that Donald Trump has completed his disastrous first overseas trip, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer must once again answer to the U.S. media as Trump continues to disgrace the country on its own soil.Following the Memorial Day holiday, it was back to business as usual with Spicer nearly losing his mind at a press briefing earlier today.
When reporters asked Spicer about Trump s claims about fake news, Spicer pretty much imploded as he sparred with reporters.Spicer tried to defend his mentally incompetent boss by pointing out a tweet in which a BBC reported had made a mistake, claiming that Trump had not been wearing a translation earpiece when he met with foreign leaders.
This mistake was quickly and publicly corrected by the reporter as soon as it was realized, but Spicer pathetically latched onto that one incident as proof of fake news.
Spicer whined: On Friday, the president was having a great discussion at the G7 and someone from the BBC, and ultimately an incoming reporter for the New York Times retweeted that the president was being rude by disrespecting the Italian prime minister.
When in fact, you all in all of the meetings watched the president with that one earpiece that s been used by all the other presidents That s just fake!
Spicer s example was beyond ridiculous, and reporters not only reminded him that the inaccurate tweet had been corrected, but that it hadn t gone any further to major newspapers.
But Spicer was beyond reasoning with.
He fired back, looking as if a meltdown was just moments away: I was asked to give an example, and I did it.
And when another reporter said the BBC reporter s tweet didn t affect how Trump s overseas trip was covered, Spicer s reply was nothing but disrespectful and dismissive.
He replied sarcastically: Well, thank you, I appreciate it, you get to decide what is big and what is not.
A lot of things have been pushed out based on unnamed unaccountable sources that is very troubling.
Clearly, Spicer forgot that his own boss is the king of using anonymous sources and perpetuating fake news.
You can watch Spicer fight with reporters below:Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images