If you claim to be a Christian but support Donald Trump and all the hate and bigotry he embodies, you re a hypocrite.And that s exactly what Michael Moore told Joy Reid during her Saturday morning show on MSNBC.Ever since Trump won the election on Tuesday night his deplorable supporters have been terrorizing minorities and women across the country, causing fear and panic in communities to the point that a movement has begun in which people wear safety pins to signify to others that they are safe to be near.But Moore believes more has to be done, particularly by white people.
White people, no matter how painful, have a responsibility to reject anybody who stands in front of a camera who spews racism.
Who spews sexism, misogyny.
Who brags about being a sexual predator.
I don t care what your race is, but especially if you re white.
Because that means that you belong to the race that s been in power forever.
This a country that was founded on genocide and built on the backs of slaves.
So you have a special responsibility as a white person to always object to anybody who uses racism, who spews this hatred.
Moore the wondered how white Americans will feel when they wake up one morning and realize that they ve been shitty human beings because they did nothing when they had a chance to stand against the hate.
And that led to Moore calling out white people who call themselves Christian.
And do not call yourself a Christian if you are not willing, literally, to put your body in front of whoever is coming to hurt the other the people who are not you.
Here s the video via Twitter.MMFlint on the special responsibility he says white people have during #DonaldTrump presidency #AMJoy https://t.co/Ih87pHq8AB AM Joy w/Joy Reid (@amjoyshow) November 12, 2016Moore is absolutely right.
Because of Trump, the responsibility falls on white people to stand up against the racism, sexism, bigotry, and hate that he has incited against any American who isn t white or Christian.
So whenever we see these behaviors we need to be brave and take a stand because being silent isn t an option.Featured Image: Screenshot