The Republican Party has spent more than seven years pushing anti-government ideas.
After President Obama was elected in 2008, there was an explosion of right-wing domestic terror organizations in the USA.
The Southern Poverty Law Center released a study that found these organizations experienced an eightfold growth from 2008 (149 groups) to 2012 s 1,360 radical militias.
A young man in Tampa, Florida belonged to one of these patriotic militias and now he is in jail for making bombs.A potential right-wing terrorist was arrested this week after his business partner reported that he d seen bombs inside his house.
Kenneth Ray O Neill recently went to his partner Michael Ramos home and saw a crate with about half a dozen pipe bombs in it.
Ramos, who s a member of the United States Patriot Army, told O Neill that he made the bombs from materials purchased on Amazon with his girlfriend s credit card.
According to Fox 13 News:Ramos said he made the black powder filler with supplies and chemicals purchased from Amazon.com, then added bird shot to the powder.
Written in the affidavit, Ramos said it would kill the neighbors if one of the bombs went off.
O Neill told police that he warned Ramos that if he did not get rid of the bombs, he was going to go to the police.
Ramos became hostile when his partner and his brother, Ryan O Neill, issued the ultimatum.
According to Kenneth, Ramos was standing next to an AK-47 assault rifle when the conversation took place.
Ryan calmed Ramos down and the brothers left that s when the authorities were informed.On Monday search warrants were executed on the patriot s home and agents found eight pipe bombs, tear gas and smoke grenades.
They also found the AK-47, a pistol and a large quantity of ammo.After his arrest Ramos told police that he had the bombs for preparedness/protective reasons.A look at Ramos Facebook and you can see that he is clearly a nutjob: I m sure he s totally harmless and just needs security.
Right.This is a common excuse among the insane right.
They claim that they stockpile weapons because they need to protect themselves, but it s not exactly clear who they are protecting themselves from.
If it s from Obama you have to wonder why?
It s been seven years since he was elected to office and he has tried exactly zero times to take over the world and confiscate their guns.I imagine it is really hard to walk through life with so much fear .and stupidity.
Thankfully, Ramos business partner did the right thing and contacted police before someone was hurt.
Featured image from Facebook