The spoiled son of a New York millionaire went full affluenza on an Uber driver, calling him a minimum wage f*ggot on camera in a fit of privilege that has to be seen to be believed.As Heavy.com reports:Jake Croman, son of New York City landlord Steven Croman, is seen in a video verbally harassing Uber driver Artur Zawada after Zawada canceled a ride on the University of Michigan frat bro.The video was posted on March 23 and quickly went viral with more than 300,000 views.In the video, Croman, a member of Tau Kappa Epsilon, is seen berating Zawada along with frat brothers.
But Croman is the ringleader of the harassment, calling Zawada a f*ck and a f**got.
He continues, You wanna kick me off?
Kick me off, you little piece of sh*t. You re an Uber driver!
Go f*cking drive, you little f*ck!
He then proceeds to call Zawada a minimum wage f*ck before storming off with his cronies.The footage is astonishing because it lays bare the sense of entitlement and privilege of these trust fund frat bros.
While their wealth is no more than an accident of birth, they strut about as if they invented the light bulb.
Worse, they actually scoff about the fact that Zawada will spend the rest of the day working while they sit on their a** and watch TV.
Newsflash fellas: Zawada is worth ten of you.But clearly, these are values Croman and his cronies learned at home.
According to the NY Daily News, the frat bro s father has been branded a slumlord, found to be using illegal tactics to force out rent-stabilized tenants.
His latest scam, reports Crains New York, is to undertake highly disruptive renovation works in efforts to force out tenants, making way for those he can charge higher rents.Little wonder then, that his son shows so little respect for his fellow New Yorkers.Croman s fraternity, Tau Kappa Epsilon, has released a statement announcing their own investigation of the incident.
It reads: At the conclusion of our swift, thorough investigation, we will handle the situation with appropriate action, Depending on the details of the investigation, this could include the expulsion of membership.
Something tells us that this is not going to be enough to correct Croman s attitude.
An attitude which stems from an unacceptable wealth gap, which rewards this spoiled boy s father for abusing those without the financial clout to fight back.Featured image via screengrab