Are we finally watching the end times for Hollywood celebrities, who have been worshipped like golden idols by Americans who believe them to be flawless and infallible human beings?
Is the morally superior facade of Hollywood actors like Meryl Streep and Gwenyth Paltrow, who admonish and berate Americans that would dare to support President Trump, while sucking up to serial sexual abuser Harvey Weinstein?
What about actress Ashley Judd who America watched while she wore her p*ssy hat, go off on an insane rant at the Women s March in DC, over Donald Trump s remarks about a woman, to another man, during a private conversation, while she hid the ACTUAL sexual assault that was allegedly committed against her by mega-Democrat donor Harvey Weinstein.
Judd claims she was asked to meet Weinstein for a breakfast meeting at the Peninsula Beverly Hills Hotel some 20 years ago.
She said the meeting turned into him inviting her up to his hotel room and claimed he asked to give her a massage and watch him shower.
A disgusting audio of Weinstein begging an Italian model to watch him shower in his hotel room was just released today.
You can find the story and the audio HERE.Gwenyth Paltrow claims that she was also sexually abused by Harvey Weinstein when she was 22 years old.
So that was 23 years ago, why the silence until now?
How many countless women could have been saved by Paltrow or Judd if they came out and pressed charges against Weinstein decades ago?
Neither one of them has any trouble publicly bashing Trump.
But, oh yeah, bashing Trump is a resume enhancer in Hollywood, while ignoring a Hollywood producer who s a sick pervert, is perfectly acceptable, as long as he s the one who signs your enormous paychecks.Gwyneth Paltrow claims that she was sexually harassed by Harvey Weinstein when she was just 22: https://t.co/ZtZlJFXZ6z pic.twitter.com/oqRm7WSO9q E!
Online UK (@EOnlineUK) October 10, 2017Is your skin crawling yet?
Wait until you watch the video below and read about the horrific experiences these former child actors had with full-grown men in Hollywood.Cernovich The recent exposure of serial sexual predator and Hollywood Democrat kingpin Harvey Weinstein raises, even more, questions than it answers.In a now famous photo, Weinstein can be seen grabbing young actress Emma Watson in a compromising position.While the public controversy currently centers around Weinstein s sexual abuse of power over young women, the question remains how young were Weinstein s victims?Former child actor Corey Feldman has publicly stated that I was molested and passed around, while discussing how in Hollywood adult males in the industry would pass young stars back and forth to each other.
Feldman revealed that his co-star Corey Haim was raped at 11-years-old.Actor Elijah Wood confirmed Feldman s claims in May 2016, describing Hollywood as a den of vipers in an interview, and saying If you can imagine it, it s probably happened.
Wood said he was protected from abuse by his mother, who didn t let him go to Hollywood parties, but he said other young child actors were regularly preyed upon by those in power.Wood also compared Hollywood s sexual predators with known pedophile and English TV personality Jimmy Savile.
You all grew up with Savile, Wood said.
Jesus, it must have been devastating.
Clearly something major was going on in Hollywood.
It was all organized.
X-Men director Bryan Singer is among those publicly accused of sexual abuse of young boys in Hollywood.Was Weinstein one of the men Elijah Wood says is sexually preying upon young children in Hollywood?
Is Weinstein one of the men Feldman says would pass young stars around?The questions must be asked when an apparent industry of pedophilia and sexual abuse has been in the open and yet kept secret for decades.Watch this disgusting interview with former child actor Corey Feldman regarding pedophilia in Hollywood: I can tell you the #1 problem in #Hollywood WAS and IS and ALWAYS will be pedophelia.
@RedNationRising #MAGA pic.twitter.com/ARb0W7QYnC DONNA WARREN (@DonnaWR8) October 9, 2017