Donald Trump reportedly wants to use the National Guard as his deportation force.According to the Associated Press, a leaked memo written by Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly revealed that Trump might call up 100,000 National Guard troops to round up undocumented immigrants.BREAKING: Trump administration considers mobilizing as many as 100,000 National Guard troops to round up unauthorized immigrants.
The Associated Press (@AP) February 17, 2017The plan would be an unprecedented militarization of immigration enforcement as far north as Portland, Oregon, and as far east as New Orleans, Louisiana.
The memo states that the National Guard would only be used if a state s governor approves, but seeing as how Trump has the power to call up any National Guard unit he wants, he could easily ignore the wishes of governors.Let s say California Governor Jerry Brown refuses to let Trump use the California National Guard to round up immigrants.
Trump could just ignore him and call them up anyway just because Brown is a Democrat and Trump doesn t like to be told no.Meanwhile, Republican governors will probably have no problem unleashing the military against immigrants.White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer denied that such a memo exists.. @seanspicer tells @kwelkernbc immigration plan is 100% false: There is no effort to utilize the national guard to round up immigrants Benjy Sarlin (@BenjySarlin) February 17, 2017And Assistant mouthpiece Michael Short also denied it.Not true.
https://t.co/T8rA87kJaU Michael C. Short (@MCShort45) February 17, 2017Twitter proceeded to point out that Spicer and Short lack credibility.
@MCShort45 Let me guess, the memo is real, but reporting on said memo is fake news?
Ryan Parker (@TheRyanParker) February 17, 2017@BenjySarlin @seanspicer @kwelkernbc Yet AP says it has a memo written by John Kelly.
This is when that credibility issue comes into play.
Chanty (@Chantelesque) February 17, 2017Donald Trump s effort to round up immigrants in this country is exactly the same as what Hitler did to the Jews.
And you can bet Trump will have to order concentration camps be built because the government will have to house them somewhere while they await deportation.This action is absolutely un-American.
It s cruel and a total affront to humanity.
Donald Trump is not merely rounding up immigrants who have serious criminal records.
He s treating all undocumented immigrants as criminals.It should also be noted that if Trump is allowed to use the National Guard for such an action, he could use the National Guard to do even more sinister things.
And it could be American citizens who become the targets.Featured image via Andrew Harrer Pool/Getty Images