Lou Dobbs has had it with this kangaroo court situation and the Trump Russia Fake News.
He and Tom Fitton of Judicial Watch discuss the fact that Mueller s appointment could be constitutionally suspect ..@TomFitton: I think the special counselor regulations, and Mueller s appointment, are constitutionally suspect.
https://t.co/OTC2kFtmii pic.twitter.com/b5s704lR6F FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) September 21, 2017Fitton s best point: Mueller is investigating himself in my view.
The firing of Comey led to his appointment.
Comey s leaking of information led to his appointment and Sessions recused himself almost immediately Today, we hear that Mueller is going after Trump s notes on policy clearly adding to the question of whether he s going over the line in the investigation.Lou has been a voice of reason and concern throughout the entire Trump Russia debacle:THIS IS HUGE!
Lou Dobbs joined Sean Hannity to discuss the constant effort to destroy President Trump.
Dobbs has mentioned a coup before (SEE BELOW) but is doubling down on his concern that the deep state and lefty media are in a full court press to get Trump out of office ASAP.Lou Dobbs had this to say about the effort to destroy Trump: The double standard is more than that by a long measure.
This is an effort to subvert the administration of President Donald Trump.
It is nothing less.
It is an effort by the Deep State to roll over a duly elected president and a legitimate government and to break the will of the American people.
This is no longer about Republicans and Democrats, conservatives and liberals, this is about a full-on assault by the left, the Democratic party to absolutely carry out a coup d etat against President Trump.LOU DOBBS AND CLINTON CASH AUTHOR DISCUSS THE DEEP STATE AND THE EFFORT TO TAKE DOWN TRUMP: Never in American history has there been a more highly organized group of people, the deep state , attempting to subvert the will of the American people, in this case, the Trump presidency.
Peter Schweizer discusses the efforts of the deep state , their conspiracy campaign against Donald Trump and its potential impact on President Trump s administration.TAKE NOTES AND CALL OUT YOUR CONGRESSMEN IF THEY RE NOT SUPPORTING PRESIDENT TRUMP!