Just confirming what anyone paying attention already knew.
The Huffington Post isn t interested in reporting the news they re strictly serving as a propaganda arm of the progressive left Earlier this month, while political news organizations were wrestling with the rise of Donald Trump, Washington Post senior politics editor Steven Ginsberg offered a philosophy: In my view, making decisions solely according to who may win the nomination is the worst way to cover a presidential election, he said.
A whole lot happens on the way to the nomination and you can t explain what s happening with the candidates or the country without being on top of all of it.
Since then, Trump s influence in the Republican primary has only grown.
He has surged to the front of the pack, leading his rivals by 3 points in the most recent Fox News and USA Today/Suffolk polls, respectively.
He has raised issues that have resonated with conservative voters and forced other GOP candidates to come forward on where they stand.
It is very likely that he will appear near center-stage at the inaugural Republican debate, on Aug. 6, and lead the pile-on against Jeb Bush.In other words, Trump is a major character in this chapter of the 2016 presidential election story.
And as Ginsberg said, you can t explain what s happening with the candidates or the country without being on top of all of it.
On Friday, however, the Huffington Post s politics team announced that they would no longer cover the candidate as a political story.
After watching and listening to Donald Trump since he announced his candidacy for president, we have decided we won t report on Trump s campaign as part of The Huffington Post s political coverage.
Instead, we will cover his campaign as part of our Entertainment section, they wrote.
Our reason is simple: Trump s campaign is a sideshow.
We won t take the bait.
If you are interested in what The Donald has to say, you ll find it next to our stories on the Kardashians and The Bachelorette.
A quick fact-check: 1.
Huffington Post is taking the bait, because they re continuing to cover Trump and will continue to benefit from the clicks.
2.
Trump s campaign isn t a sideshow.
He s leading the field, and is therefore a daily preoccupation for other candidates.
(Hours after posting its note, Huffington Post sent an email clarifying that the impact [Trump is] having on the Republican Party and the immigration debate is itself a real thing, which it will cover as substance, but anything that tumbles out of his mouth will land on the Entertainment page.
)One might conclude that Huffington Post s announcement amounts to the same Trump-style grandstanding they claim to condemn.
On a larger level, they seem to miss the point that all politics is theater.
Countless statements have tumbled forth from the mouth of candidates top-tier and third-tier that were made precisely to rile up the base, bait an opponent, get free play in the media, etc.
The Huffington Post politics team has covered these stories, and will almost surely continue to do so even when they come from candidates who have a less of a shot at their party s nomination than Trump.Via: Politico