Fox News The Five host, Jesse Watters let loose on liberal crybaby co-host Juan Williams during their most recent show.
Waters lost it over liberals who would dare to call President Trump and his family unpatriotic .
Watters started his rant by saying, I m very sick of the Democrats calling the Trump family unpatriotic!'
He went on to say that the left are now the McCarthyites .He was only getting started however.
Watters then gave Juan Williams a history lesson that just about blew the doors off the Fox News set.Watters to Williams: Let s remember what party defeated the Soviet Union, while the Democratic Party was trying to appease and mimic Communism.
Party.
Democrats have been cozying up to dictators and our enemies for years.
Giving the Iranians billions of dollars, giving North Koreans billions of dollars.
Shaking Hugo Chavez s hand, shaking the Castro s hands.
The Clinton s were taking money from Chinese nationals in 1996 reelection campaign and then selling satellite technology to the Chinese that enabled their missile program to blow up.
The media colluded with the Democrats, letting Hillary cheat during the debates.
President Obama, palling around with domestic terrorists, sitting in the same church as an American-hating preacher.
The Democrats undermining the military.
Juan Williams attempted to break in and stop Watters, but Jesse was on a roll and he wasn t giving up.Watters continued, Giving birth to ISIS.
Lying about a terrorist attack.
It was at that point, that Juan Williams was practically begging for mercy!
Stop, stop!
How much more can we take.
Watters finished his rant by telling Williams, Donald Trump s family has done more for this country than any Democrat elected official.
He s provided more jobs in the real estate industry, in the fast-food industry, in the fashion industry, in the hotel and casino industry.
He s created more wealth than anybody in this entire So to smear them as the mafia or unpatriotic is shameful.
And I think everyone needs to wake up and realize, that this family s a patriotic family and what s happening now is a coup against the will of the American people!
Watch: VIDEO: Jesse Watters shuts Juan Williams up gives him a history lesson on the DEMOCRATS' connections to Russia!
pic.twitter.com/e3E2O330V8 Newt-Trump Fan Club (@NewtTrump) July 16, 2017Well done Jesse well done!!
!