Despite his tweets, apparently Trump isn t being investigated for obstruction of justice, according to Jay Sekulow, a member of Trump s legal team.On Friday morning, President Trump tweeted: I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director!
Witch Hunt.
I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director!
Witch Hunt Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 16, 2017According to NBC, Sekulow was adamant that Trump is not under any investigation on NBC s Meet The Press .
Let me be clear here, said Jay Sekulow, a member of the president s legal team.
The president is not and has not been under investigation for obstruction.
Sekulow goes on to say that Trump was actually responding to news reports of an investigation.Funny, because that s not what it sounded like from Trump himself.
Surely the President of the United States knows how to be clear in his official White House tweets.
The tweet from the president was in response to the five anonymous sources purportedly leaking info to the Washington Post, Sekulow said, referring to the Washington Post s report that Special Counsel Robert Mueller s investigation into Russian interference in the election, now also includes a look at whether President Trump attempted to obstruct justice.
He s not afraid of the investigation there is no investigation, Sekulow said, adding, there is not an investigation of the President of the United States, period.
Ah but Sekulow first said He s not afraid of the investigation , that implies something else entirely.
It sounds like Trump and his team are working to cover up an investigation and have it become hush hush and forgotten about.We all know Trump tells it like it is on Twitter, covfefe or otherwise.
Trump doesn t know when to shut up or keep his mouth shut.
Unfortunately for him there s only so much his team can do.
Or try to do.Sen.
Marco Rubio, R-Fla, also noted on NBC s Meet The Press that one thing we ve learned from the testimony of multiple people now is the president is pretty fired up about this and doesn t believe that he did anything wrong.
The president wants people to say that, he said.If that s the case, again I ask: what does Trump have to hide then?Featured image by Joe Raedle/Getty Images