How damaging is Donald Trump?
Just ask the Republican National Committee.
They ve lost out on a lucrative advertising deal with Buzzfeed because Trump is offensive.
Media outlets need advertising dollars to function, so the fact that Buzzfeed would give up any ad money at all, just to stand on principle, says a lot about how awful Trump really is.
The RNC has to be smarting from that.Their response to this is as weak and watery as their reluctant decision to accept Trump as their nominee and standard-bearer.
According to CNN, the RNC s chief strategist and spokesman, Sean Spicer, said: Space was reserved on many platforms, but we never intended to use BuzzFeed.
It is ironic that they have not ruled out taking money from a candidate currently under investigation by the FBI.
Excuses, excuses.
It s like they re back in kindergarten and saying, I didn t want to be your friend anyway!
in order to save face.
And by all means, invoke the investigation into Hillary s email server to smear Buzzfeed and deflect attention from the real problem, which is Trump.
That just compounds the flimsiness of their response.Earlier on Monday, Buzzfeed CEO Jonah Peretti explained in a letter that they won t accept Trump ads because Trump is dangerous.
He compared Trump ads to cigarette ads, saying that they don t run cigarette ads for that same reason.
They don t want to be seen as endorsing something that s fundamentally bad for them and for us.Peretti is especially concerned about Trump wanting to limit freedom of the press, ban Muslims and get rid of immigrants: The Trump campaign is directly opposed to the freedoms of our employees in the United States and around the world and in some cases, such as his proposed ban on international travel for Muslims, would make it impossible for our employees to do their jobs.
They do intend to continue covering Trump, though, and their coverage is brutal enough for him to specifically target them at rallies and elsewhere.
The RNC, though, doesn t want to look like they re sucking on sour grapes over this, but they can t avoid it now.
Such a shame our hearts bleed pink carbonated peanut butter for them.Featured image by Alex Wong/Getty Images