Donald Trump is pretty terrible.
He s exactly the sort of person who would suggest that Muslims be banned from entering the United States.
He s the type of guy who would force any Muslims in the United States to register in a national database and wear special badges, then throw them in concentration camps as a temporary measure.
Trump has spoken openly about building a wall between the United states and Mexico to keep brown people out, openly encouraged his supporters to beat African-Americans at his rallies.
Hell, he even has been known to keep a book of Hitler s speeches by his bedside for light reading.
He s repeatedly lied throughout his campaign in an effort to paint himself as the best option to serve as President of the United States.
But the Washington Post has revealed yet another facet of Trump s douchebaggery: he s also the type of guy who would pretend to be his own public relations person so he can talk himself up.The Washington Post has uncovered an old recording of what sounds like The Donald talking himself up while speaking to reporters.
The recording is from 1991, and is between the now-GOP nominee sorry, John Miller and a reporter from People Magazine.
Sue Caswell was covering Trump s media circus-of-the-time his divorce from Ivana Trump, who says her former husband brutally raped her in just one of the many incidents that led to the end of their marriage as well as his relationship with Marla Maples.The spokesman had some interesting insight into Trump s personal life, telling Caswell that he really didn t want to make a commitment to Maples because he s coming out of a marriage, and he s starting to do tremendously well financially.
He assured Caswell that Trump is a good guy who isn t going to hurt anybody and treated his wife well you know, aside from the horrific abuse, and all: Have you met him?
He s a good guy and he s not going to hurt anybody.
The one article said he was going to throw her out of the apartment is total nonsense.
He is going to always treat her well as he treated his wife well.
I mean, he paid his wife a great deal of money.
He did it in a very bad period of time and, ultimately, that was settled.
There were those that say that that was even put that way.
I don t know if you heard that but that Trump became poor until he got his divorce.
And then all of a sudden, he s been doing very well and I guess you probably heard that, too.But he treated his wife well and he treated and he will treat Marla well.
He s somebody that has a lot of options, and, frankly, he gets called by everybody.
He gets called by everybody in the book, in terms of women.
Trump explained that he is sort of handling PR because [Trump] gets so much of it, and that he was simply doing the PR gig part-time, and even took the time to regail Caswell with a tale of the time he met Madonna.Other reporters say they received similarly suspicious calls from Miller or John Barron, and those reporters all say Trump was the person behind the calls.
In fact, some of his top aides and Trump himself have confirmed that he was doing his own PR work.
In 1991, People reported:Just two weeks ago, though, Ms. Maples was not even taking The Donald s calls.
Not after a PEOPLE reporter played her a tape on June 26 of a man saying that he was a Trump publicist named John Miller.
A shocked, devastated Marla identified the voice as that of Trump himself.
He announced, among other things, that he d traded in his Georgia peach for an Italian model (Carla Bruni).
When I heard his voice on that tape saying those things, I said, Whoa!
Uh-uh.
No more, says Marla.
If he could say all that stuff and act like it s cool to have this playboy image, then oh my gosh, all I could say was, Baby, you re on your own.
So she packed a bag, ducking the press as well as The Donald s persistent appeals to reconcile, and took refuge at the Greenwich, Conn., home of her close friend, morning talk show host Kathie Lee Gilford.
There she talked, prayed (she and Kathie Lee are both devout Christians) and came to a Donald-less conclusion: I realized I was not going to die without this person in my life.
Meanwhile a penitent Don Juan-ald had come to the opposite conclusion.
The John Miller fiasco he called a joke gone awry.
What I did became a good time at Mar-la s expense, and I m very sorry, says the newly humbled tycoon.
As for his wandering eye, I d felt that I needed space and freedom after the divorce, so I took the opportunity to go out with other women, but I kept coming back to Marla.
I realized, why go looking for something when you already have exactly what you want?
Despite all of this, on Friday Trump denied that he was the guy behind the calls.
I don t know anything about it, Trump said during an appearance on NBC s Today: I have many, many people that are trying to imitate my voice, and you can imagine that.
This sounds like one of these scams, one of the many scams.
It doesn t sound like me.
It was not me on the phone, he rambled.
And it doesn t sound like me on the phone, I will tell you that.
It was not me on the phone.
Hear that folks?
It wasn t him on the phone.
It wasn t him with a bone.
It wasn t him on a train.
It wasn t him on a plane.
It wasn t him on a boat, in a moat, or you get the idea.
Sure, he may have admitted it in the past, but he s running for President now.
Why tell the truth?
This was so farcical, that he pretended to be his own publicist.
Here was this so-called billion-dollar real estate mogul, and he can t hire his own publicist, Carswell said upon listening to the tape for the first time in more than two decades.
It also said something about the control he wanted to keep of the news cycle flowing with this story, and I can t believe he thought he d get away with it.
Unfortunately, he keeps getting away with things.
Despite his horrific remarks, his repeated lies, and his generally awful attitude, The Donald has managed to land himself the spot as the 2016 GOP nominee.
Republicans have repeatedly given him a pass no matter what he says or does because he represents all that is terrible about our society bigotry, hatred, racism, xenophobia and that is exactly what appeals to them.Compared to Trump s numerous other lies this is a small one, but it does show how important it is to him that he controls the narrative.Listen to the call below:Featured image via Getty Images/Isaac Brekken