Disgraced former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn has asked for immunity in exchange for testifying in the FBI s continuing investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and he has an answer from the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Two Congressional sources told NBC News that the committee declined Flynn s lawyer s request.According to a senior congressional official with direct knowledge of the case, Flynn s lawyer was told it was wildly preliminary and that immunity was not on the table at the moment.
Another source weighed in to say that the committee communicated that it is not receptive to Flynn s request at this time.
The senior congressional official added that Flynn s lawyer had conveyed the offer of testimony in exchange for immunity from prosecution to the Justice Department.Alleged president Donald Trump tweeted this morning:Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2017The thought is that either the authorities have nothing on Flynn or they have bigger fish to fry and there s only one person above the former National Security Adviser in this scenario: Donald J. Trump.
Or, the evidence already collected on Flynn is damning and they don t need to make a deal the latter of which is possible.Flynn was fired after lying about speaking with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak about Obama-era sanctions.
From there, things got worse for Flynn.
He also met with Kislyak for about 20 minutes at Trump Tower in December.
Just one week later, Flynn registered with the Justice Department as a foreign agent for $530,000 worth of lobbying work he did before the 2016 election that could be construed to have principally benefited the Republic of Turkey.
In a statement Thursday, Flynn s lawyer Robert Kelner said no reasonable person would get questioned in such a highly politicized, witch hunt environment without assurance against unfair prosecution.
However, in 2016, Flynn was seen at a Trump rally leading Lock her up!
chants then saying that if he did one tenth what Hillary Clinton did, he would be in jail.
In addition, on Meet the Press last year, Flynn said, When you are given immunity, that means that you ve probably committed a crime.
Ouchies!
Life sure comes at you fast AF, huh?Photo by Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images.