Donald Trump is stuck in a court battle over his failed Trump University scheme, and because he will do anything to win, he has, of course, gone out and gotten the best attorney money can buy for this.
To that end, he hired Daniel Petrocelli, who has represented everyone from Enron s Jeffrey Skilling, to major companies like Warner Bros. and Disney.
Petrocelli is also the lawyer who represented the Goldman family in their successful wrongful death suit against O.J.
Simpson.So Trump has a skilled, powerful attorney, and in other news, fire is hot.
However, Petrocelli is both a strange and notable pick for The Donald.
Why?
His political donation history shows that he s not anything like a Trump supporter, or even Republican.
In fact, he s a registered Democrat, and he s already maxed out the amount he can personally donate to none other than Hillary Clinton.While Trump rails against the law firm representing the plaintiffs in this case he claims they ve given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Hillary s campaign he s ignoring the fact that his own lead attorney has those kinds of ties to Hillary, too.
If the plaintiffs attorneys are out to get him because they re Hillary supporters, then it follows that he should worry that his own lead attorney can t be trusted to represent him skillfully and fairly for that very same reason.For instance, Petrocelli has been very quiet while Trump rails about everyone being biased against him, especially in this court case.
He also directly contradicted Trump s racist whining that Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who is presiding over the Trump U. case, can t be fair to Trump because of his Mexican heritage.
The judge is doing his job, said Daniel Petrocelli, shaking his head, when asked if planned to seek Curiel s recusal.
We re not seeking to recuse the judge.'
This doesn t worry King Donald?
How many brain cells does he have rattling around in his head?Of course, Trump himself has come under fire from Republicans for his past support of Democrats.
However, Petrocelli s support isn t exactly in the past.
Records show that his most recent donations to Hillary were in January of this year.He also has a long history of giving financial support to other Democrats, too, such as Dianne Feinstein and even Al Gore.
He might be able to separate his political leanings from his work, but this is a very high profile case involving a presidential candidate, and the fact that he s a major supporter of his client s opponent won t help Trump s falling poll numbers, or his terrible image among conservatives.This actually speaks more to Trump s intelligence and foresight or lack thereof than it does anything about Petrocelli himself.
He s completely undermined his own everyone is against me argument, and proven that he s nothing but a dimwitted, walking contradiction who looks for sparkle and jazz.
Yes, he hired Petrocelli for his skill in the courtroom, but he s so paranoid and distrustful that this makes no sense.
Chances are, a lot of his other picks for a lot of other positions will make no sense either.Featured image by Dave Einsel/Getty Images