Donald Trump is himself, a pervert.
We all knew that.
Despite the fact that we have audio proof of this, the family values party embraced him with open arms.
However, the longer Trump stays in office, the more dirt that comes out about him and those associated with him.
Case in point the Kentucky state chair for Trump s 2016 presidential campaign.Tim Nolan is a member of the Board of Education of Campbell County in California, Kentucky.
He is also a former judge, and he happened to run Donald Trump s state campaign there.
On Friday, he was led away in handcuffs on a most disturbing charge: that he trafficked a child for sex.
The local press, River City News, says that the indictment against Nolan accuses him of making a minor a victim of commercial sexual activity.
This isn t any old scandal that just got dug up, either Nolan allegedly was engaging in these activities while he was running Trump s campaign in the state of Kentucky in August of last year.
Nolan has also been referred to by local reporters as an outspoken and controversial type who is constantly riding for the local Tea Party.In addition to being a child sex trafficker, Nolan is also an avowed racist who was removed from the Kentucky Boxing and Wrestling Commission after a Ku Klux Klan photo appeared on his Facebook page.
Of course, since the Trump campaign was just fine with white supremacists, Klansmen and the like, they never bothered to do anything about Nolan s association with their election efforts.Nolan s supposed misdeeds were looked into with great interest by the Campbell County Police, which resulted in this indictment.
Another interesting twist is that while the crimes and indictment occurred in Campbell County, the arraignment did not happen there.
Why, you might ask?
Well, because it would be a conflict of interest to have him appear in a courtroom where his daughter, Taunya Nolan, is a County Court Clerk.These scandals with people surrounding Trump just keep getting sicker and sicker.
After all, there was just another Trump state campaign chair, Ralph Shortey of Oklahoma, who was caught in a seedy motel room smoking weed and preparing to have sex with a teenage boy.
Now, this.Wonder how many more Trump folks are going to be exposed as sexual predators?
Well, considering who their boss is, there s really no telling.
All we can do is pop the popcorn and wait.
Watch a news report on this developing story below:Featured image via video screen capture