European nations have naively opened their borders to millions of Muslim males who have no intention of assimilating.
As they make their way across Europe, police forces find themselves ill-equipped to handle the extreme increase in sexual assault and violence, so citizens are now finding themselves in a position where they are being forced to take matters into their own hands.A group of young concerned Germans made a video warning that they would no longer sit back and watch their culture and history being destroyed.
The video can be viewed by clicking HERE.On February 4, 2015, we reported about a fast growing group of vigilantes who call themselves the Soldiers of Odin.
The self-styled Soldiers of Odin march in a mob, wearing bomber jackets with their logo on the back.
They have vowed to take direct action to protect their wives, girlfriends and children after a migrant influx to the liberal Scandinavian country.
Persons linked to Islamist groups in Oslo say that they have formed a group called Soldiers of Allah .Via a central source in the Islamist environment, the Norwegian newspaper VG has received a statement, and photographs of the planned uniform.The group has been named Jundullaah which translates to Soldiers of Allah .
In response to the group of unbelievers in Soldiers of Odin, who are patrolling the streets, we Muslims have chosen to create a group to patrol the streets, initially in the capital Oslo, to forbid evil and call for the good, says the statement.The planned uniform , is decorated with the black flag of the terrorist organization Islamic State (IS) on the back, with a small logo on the chest.On Tuesday, Labour s Muslim deputy chairman, Hadia Tajik, said that the Soldiers of Odin defy Norway s rules on private security businesses and she tried to illustrate the problem as follows: It is as if the Islamists would be the uniformed ones, take to the streets and call themselves guards or vigilantes.
It is very undesirable and unfortunate for our country, devastating, said Tajik.Now it s exactly what is about to happen.Great tip, Tajik.The information that Islamists in Oslo are in the process of establishing a group, is also confirmed by the temporary spokesman of the Prophet s ummah who calls himself Abu Arijon.
He said that the plan is to start in Oslo, then Drammen and T nsberg.Many of the people in Soldiers of Allah come from the environment around the Islamist group the Prophet s Ummah, where spokesman Ubaydullah Hussain currently is in custody and charged with recruiting for IS.
Soldiers of Allah inform in the statement themselves, that almost everyone in the group is on the Watch List of the Police Security Service (PST).
Is PST aware of the group Soldiers of Allah planning to patrol in Oslo?
We can not comment on individuals or individual groups, says senior adviser in PST, Siv Als n, to VG.So there it is.
Regular street battles could soon be a reality in Norway.
Soldiers of Odin against Soldiers of Allah, with the police in between.
However, it will most likely not be started by the Soldiers of Odin, but the rabid Islamists in the soldiers of Allah.
And then, even though the Soldiers of Odin claim to be a peaceful group, the Viking has clearly awaken illustrated by the logo on the back.
And being attacked by Islamists, they will have no other choice than to go berserk again, after a thousand years in hibernation.All hell is breaking loose in countries all across Europe.
Are Americans paying attention, or has Obama s manufactured race war distracted us from his plan to seed Muslims in our small towns and communities across America through the US State Dept.
Refugee Resettlement Program?