Congressional Republicans plan on dogging Hillary and the FBI about her emails and use of a private server from now until kingdom come.
It s a matter of mishandling classified info, they say.
She potentially put our national security at grave risk, they claim.
We have to investigate every last letter of every last word of every last sentence here, they insist.
But when it comes to investigating a true threat to national security, they re blocking attempts at every turn.Of course, we re talking about Donald Trump s potential ties to Russia.
Congressional Democrats keep running into roadblock after roadblock in trying to open an investigation into that.
GOP staffers told The Daily Beast that while it seems their bosses are privately concerned about the issue, they would rather continue harping on Hillary.It s politics.
Disgusting politics that really does put us at risk.
The problem is likely that Trump is their nominee which really should make it all the more concerning.
Given the GOP s apparent need to protect our security (they re angry with Obama for not going after ISIS the way they want in addition to insisting that Hillary jeopardized our security with her email server), one would think they d be all over this.Intelligence briefings given to both the Senate and House Intelligence Committees point to Russia using hacking as a means to influence our elections: Communications and documents stolen in those hacks have been selectively leaked online since, by a hacker claiming to be unaffiliated with the Russians going by Guccifer 2.0.
But analysis by private-sector cybersecurity firms have concluded that the character is most likely a front for the Russians to cast doubt on their culpability.Two other hacks both of state election boards have also been loosely tied to potential Russian hackers.
In Illinois, thousands of voter role records were accessed, and Arizona was also targeted.
Though nothing was done to influence elections in those states, experts believe Russian hacking is designed to cast doubt in the security and validity of the election.
It s true that some Republicans are suffering some measure of buyer s remorse over the party s nomination of Trump, but in blocking investigations that are this important, all they ve done is unmask themselves as the impostors they are.
To some, this is black-and-white.
Kurt Eichenwald of Newsweek went on Twitter to call them out for this blatant hypocrisy:GOP Congress spends a year and a half investigating Clinton emails, but refuses to investigate whether Russia is hacking our election?
WTF?
Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) September 30, 2016And he s got it.
Republicans have attacked Hillary on everything under the sun because they hate her, and they fear her, and they don t want her to be president.
It s not about national security with her.
They won t go after Trump for something far more dangerous and frightening because they re protecting their own.
It s Republican politics at its finest.Featured image via Aude Guerrucci-Pool/Getty Images