CNN host Anderson Cooper s reactions to Kellyanne Conway throughout this interview are priceless.After firing FBI Director James Comey on Tuesday, the wicked witch of the White House made her return to the cable news circuit to spout more bullshit in defense of her mentally defective boss.Conway was repeatedly reminded that Trump loved Comey during the 2016 campaign, but she repeatedly made an ass of herself by pretending that candidate Trump no longer exists.
As a candidate, Donald Trump praised James Comey, Cooper said.
Donald Trump talked about this on the campaign all the time.
All of sudden the White House is concerned about James Comey s handling of Hillary Clinton s email?
I think you re looking at the wrong set of facts here, Anderson, Conway bewilderingly replied.
In other words you re going back to the campaign.
This is the president of the United States, he acted decisively today, he acted at the direction of his deputy attorney general.
He makes complete sense because he has lost confidence in the FBI director and he took the recommendation of Rob Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has been on the job for two weeks.
Cooper then proceeded to grill Conway.
That makes no sense, he fired back.
He said one thing as candidate and now he s concerned as president?
Clearly, this White House is under investigation, the people around the president are under investigation.
You would agree with that, yes?
In defiance of the facts, Conway disagreed and whined about people who are obsessed with Russia.
Then she argued that since she s around Trump and not under investigation that others cannot be.
I m around the president, Conway said.
I m not under investigation.
So that person doesn t exist anymore?
Cooper asked.
Candidate Donald Trump, that s a fictional character we are no longer allowed to refer to?
We can only refer to the Donald Trump who exists today?
Conway accused Cooper of being mean and claimed that Trump fired Comey because he needs confidence in his FBI director and he doesn t have it.
Throughout the interview, Cooper can be seen reacting to Conway s most inane responses with facial expressions.
At one point, he even rolled his eyes because of how ridiculous her answers were.Here s the video via YouTube.Clearly, CNN wasted their time and ours by inviting Conway on to spread Trump s propaganda.
The only thing saving this interview is Copper s reactions to being gaslighted.The only reason why Trump fired Comey is because the FBI is investigating his Russia scandal.
Trump just impeded that investigation and obstructed justice by firing the man in charge of it.
Now Trump will likely put someone in charge who will drop the investigation.
This is exactly the kid of shady shit that Richard Nixon did in order to cover-up his involvement in Watergate.
He resigned rather than face impeachment.
Trump should not only face impeachment, he should actually be impeached and put in prison.Featured Image: Screenshot