Facebook CEO and founder, Mark Zuckerberg is clearly making an effort to recognize the recent deaths of two black men, who the media has determined (without a trial) are victims of unjustified deaths at the hands of white police officers.
The Michael Brown trial proved without a shadow of a doubt that he NEVER had his hands up when he was shot, and that furthermore, he was attempting to overtake Officer Wilson and steal his gun when he was shot and killed.
The Freddie Grey case has been tried in courts and every cop has been exonerated.
But who needs facts when burning down cities and killing innocent cops who are fathers, husbands and sons is so much more effective when it comes to angering the black community into voting for Hillary?
When the CEO of social media giant Facebook, who reaches BILLIONS of people around the world, openly sides with a radical, leftist, violent organization, that many consider to be a terrorist group, the whole world is in very big trouble.On Friday, Facebook s Menlo Park headquarters put up a giant sign declaring that Black Lives Matter and held a moment of silence for the people who had died.
"Your pain is our pain."
#blm #blacklivesmatterA post shared by Trish (@trishytreesh) on Jul 8, 2016 at 2:36pm PDTA close-up of the sign shows that the words are formed from individuals names, including Emmett Till, Trayvon Martin, Oscar Grant, Eric Garner, Oscar Grant, Michael Brown, Jordan Davis, Kimani Gray, Renisha McBride, Jonathan Ferrell, and Amadou Diallo.When Zuckerberg put this sign up in front of the Facebook HQ s, did he consider putting a sign up honoring the lives of the MURDERED COPS in Dallas by RACIST cop killer Micah X. Johnson?
Or how about the other cops who ve been murdered at the hands of racists inspired by the BLM movement?
Oh wait..never mind.
That wouldn t help Obama s cause to agitate black voters, thereby encouraging them to turn out the vote for Hillary in November.
And it s pretty clear whose team Facebook is on This instagram user posts a picture of the BLM sign at the Facebook HQ s. The first comment suggests that unless other companies get behind the Obama-Holder-Sharpton race/cop war movement, they should stop spending money with them.
Maybe no one told this person, but Facebook is SUPPOSED to be a social media PLATFORM and NOT a social media political opinion influencer!
Facebook has played a major role in capturing evidence and disseminating fury in the recent glut of police-involved violence.
After a police officer shot Castile, his fiance Diamond Reynolds went live on Facebook with damning footage of the aftermath.
The video has since racked up more than 5 million views.
(Facebook briefly took the video down late Wednesday night due to what it called a glitch.
)The next day, Thursday, users again turned to Facebook Live to broadcast footage from a protest in Dallas, that captured sounds of gunfire when a sniper shot multiple people, leaving five police officers dead.In the aftermath of Castile s death, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg heralded the power of Facebook Live.
The images we ve seen this week are graphic and heartbreaking, and they shine a light on the fear that millions of members of our community live with every day, he wrote.#AltonSterling and #PhilandoCastile s lives mattered.
Black lives matter.
We need racial justice now.
pic.twitter.com/mXTC0zRfqJ Google (@Google) July 7, 2016Via: Fusion*These photos were posted on Instagram by people who claim to work at Facebook.