It s disgusting enough that Donald Trump jumped to serial womanizer and harsser Roger Ailes defense in the wake of a growing sexual harassment scandal at Fox News.
When asked how he d respond if his daughter, Ivanka, was being harassed the way that Ailes harassed many women, his answer was positively vile.Kirsten Powers, a Fox News contributor and USA Today columnist, pointedly asked Trump that very question.
His reply?
I would like to think she would find another career or find another company if that was the case.
Because it should always be incumbent upon the woman to handle the situation quietly, instead of her harasser s responsibility to, oh, we don t know, maybe not harass women.
Novel idea, yes?
Trump literally just said he wouldn t want his daughter to report it, to complain, to fight for herself, or to out her harasser.
From there, given his defense of Ailes and his own proclivity towards womanizing and harassment, we can assume that he expects her to work to avoid ruining her harasser s career and life at all costs.Just over a week ago, Trump told NBC s Chuck Todd the following: Some of the women that are complaining, I know how much he s helped them Now, all of a sudden, they re saying these horrible things about him.
Piling on a bandwagon, in his opinion?
Perhaps.
Maybe he thinks they re jaded because Ailes passed them over for promotion, or worse, because Ailes didn t hit on them, but hit on other women in front of them and they were jealous.
The mind of a misogynist can create all kinds of theories as to why women would dare ruin a career as obviously stellar as that of Roger Ailes.Most women can t just up and quit their jobs because they re being harassed.
Even if they all could, they should absolutely not be expected to.
Why?
Because the harassment is not their fault, and it should be on their harasser to go find a new damn job.
It s the harasser who was wrong.Ivanka stands by her father in his bid for the presidency, and he should not be telling her to tuck tail and run in the face of harassment, as if the harassment is her fault.
That is victim-blaming at its absolute worst.
He s a horrifically sick bastard for that.Featured image by Jeff Swensen/Getty Images