Donald Trump has created nothing but division in our country, and amplified every racists fear that they might lose all their white privileges if minorities are actually given equal opportunities and treated with respect.
This couldn t have been more apparent than in a shocking video that was taken on Brooklyn s L train over the weekend.In the video below, a man in a white suit and top hat yells profanities at an African American woman, calling her C*nt over and over again, as well as fat.
What did she do to deserve this disgusting, misogynistic attack?
Nothing, except sit down on the last seat on the train.But this man wasn t just a misogynist, the attack also became racially motivated, as he continues to yell the C-word and eventually says put that back in the f*** fields where they belong.
This behavior makes it completely predictable that he would stop attacking this woman for a second to yell at the top of his lungs, DONALD TRUMP 2016!
As soon as this childish passenger reveals that he s a Trump supporter, the black woman he d been attacking understands that she s not dealing with a sane human being and says reveal exactly who you are.
Which of course only makes this man-child more furious as he yells, among several other things: Calm for me b***, you sitting down there b***.
At one point, a woman who seemed to know the rabid racist was embarrassed by him and tried to calm him down by saying, Les!
That s enough.
All the black woman could do in response to this attack was wonder what everyone else on the train was probably thinking: Are you five years old?
This encounter finally ended when the Trump supporter got off the train at Jefferson St. station.The video is only 2 minutes long, but it s more than enough to get the sense that Trump supporters are likely the most dangerous, illogical people on the planet right now.
You can watch this disgusting Trump lover attack a woman for basically doing nothing below (warning: graphic language):Featured image is a screenshot