Democrats are reportedly furious at deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein after a classified, closed-door meeting on Friday.
The meeting was held to update members of the House of Representatives on the probe into the Trump campaign s ties with Russia, and to reassure members of the House that the newly-appointed special counsel has all the tools he needs at his disposal.
Many Democrats clearly weren t swayed by Rosenstein s remarks.
Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) spoke to the core of the Democratic representatives issues with the briefing.
After the meeting, he told reporters, There was considerable frustration in the room.
This renewed my confidence that we should not have confidence in this administration.
Just came out of the House briefing by the Deputy AG.
It renewed my confidence that we should have no confidence in this Administration.
Seth Moulton (@sethmoulton) May 19, 2017Moulton went on, [Rosenstein] refused to answer a lot of questions.
There s definitely concern about the control of the administration and whether or not Mueller has the authority that he truly needs.
Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL), who is a member of the House Intelligence Committee, added, I just don t think he was prepared to talk about much.
He didn t do anything to satisfy anybody in that regard.
Rep @MaxineWaters leaves the Rosenstein briefing, throws up her hands, and says, "Waste of time!
Another waste of time!"
Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) May 19, 2017Rep.
Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) appeared to be even more angry about Rosenstein s briefing.
He called the meeting useless, and implied it only served to escalate tensions between House Democrats and the FBI.
Gallego said, He caused more confusion and anger among members of Congress.
Mbrs are walking out of Rosenstein briefing upset at lack of clarity on Mueller/Comey.
Say it didn't instill confidence in process Chad Pergram (@ChadPergram) May 19, 2017 The skepticism persists, said Rep. Linda S nchez (D-CA), vice chairwoman of the House Democratic Caucus.
We got a lot of, Trust us, we ve got integrity, we re straight shooters, we don t have ulterior motives.
I mean, it s basically, Trust us, she said.
And I m operating under [the guideline], OK, trust but verify.
We need factual information.
"There wasn't a damn bit of classified information.
It was a colossal waste of my time" Dem Rep Mike Thompson on Rosenstein briefing.
Erica Werner (@ericawerner) May 19, 2017Republican lawmakers had a decidedly different take on the meeting.
They appeared to be reassured by Rosenstein s promises, and trust the administration not to interfere with the special counsel.Rep.
Darrell Issa (R-CA) said, What I learned, and I m very satisfied with, is the special prosecutor will have the breadth of scope necessary to follow all leads directly and tangentially.
Photo by Win McNamee via Getty Images.