After several days of silence, Hillary Clinton finally made a statement on the disgraced billionaire Hollywood movie producer and mega-Democrat donor, Harvey Weinstein.
Well, actually Hillary really didn t come out and make a statement, true to form, Hillary hid behind her former State Department communications director, Nick Merrill, as he posted a response on behalf of Hillary about the monster predator, and one of her top donors to her presidential campaign, the virulently anti-Trump, Harvey Weinstein.Perhaps the delay in the statement was due to the pressure from Americans for Democrats to return or donate campaign contributions from the disgraced scumbag Hollywood kingpin.From Deadline: Something in the neighborhood of $1.8 million was raised at Harvey Weinstein s star-packed fundraiser for Hillary Clinton in New York City Monday night, sources tell Deadline.
The event for 50 or so Clinton supporters at Weinstein s Manhattan home drew some major Hollywood names, including Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lopez, Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick, Candice Bergen, Bethenny Frankel and designers Vera Wang and Tory Burch.Don t hold your breath waiting for Hillary to return the $1.8 million that Weinstein and his co-hosts Jennifer Lopez, Sarah Jessica Parker, Matthew Broderick and Leonardo DiCaprio raised for Crooked Hillary s presidential campaign.Here is the statement that Merrill released on behalf of the hiding Hillary:Statement from Secretary Clinton on Harvey Weinstein: pic.twitter.com/L1l2wl9l0I Nick Merrill (@NickMerrill) October 10, 2017Funny, Hillary was not only silent about the rape Juanita Broaddrick claims her husband Bill committed, according to Broaddrick, Hillary went out of her way to silence her.I was 35 years old when Bill Clinton, Ark.
Attorney General raped me and Hillary tried to silence me.
I am now 73 .it never goes away.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) January 6, 2016Broaddrick tweeted about Hillary s silence on the sexual assault charges against Weinstein.
Broaddrick suggested that perhaps Harvey Weinstein could now spill about his pervert buddy, Bill Clinton.
Hillary won't talk about Weinstein kinda makes you wonder what HW could spill about his pervert buddy, Bill Clinton pic.twitter.com/OZY8bUPIYS Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) October 10, 2017Broaddrick didn t just go after Hillary for her silence over serial sexual offender Bill Clinton, she DESTROYED Meryl Streep for supporting the enabler of a rapist husband.
Maybe now, Meryl, you can understand how wrong you were to support an enabler of a rapist husband.
Wake up Hollywood!
https://t.co/ZgRx7hIUN0 Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) October 9, 2017