Mexico s former first lady, Margarita Zavala, wasted no time slamming Donald Trump, who is set to make an appearance in Mexico, visiting current president Enrique Pe a Nieto, who invited the Republican nominee.From her twitter, Zavala denounced Trump on behalf of the Mexican people:Sr. @realDonaldTrump aunque lo hayan invitado, sepa que no es bienvenido.
Los mexicanos tenemos dignidad y repudiamos su discurso de odio.
Margarita Zavala (@Mzavalagc) August 31, 2016Translation: Sr. Donald Trump: although they have invited, know that you are not welcome.
Mexicans have their dignity and repudiate hate speech.Needless to say, Zavala s tweet was met with praise from Mexican citizens and other Spanish speaking individuals, who like Zavala, were offended by Trump s never ending barrage of outrageous lies about their country.Zavala, whose husband is former Mexican President Felipe Calderon, served in the country s Congress in the 1990s and is reported to be running for President herself in 2018.
She was the country s first lady from 2006 to 2012.
Calderon made headlines earlier this year when he told CNBC that Mexico would not pay a single cent for such a stupid wall.
Zavala is right Mexico denounces hate speech, and they especially denounce Donald Trump, whose favorability in the country is a whopping 2 percent.
If Trump thinks the world doesn t respect us now, he should see how much we ll be hated if he wins.With President Pe a Nieto s approval rating at 23 percent, Mexico could very well find themselves electing their first female president, Margarita Zavala, in 2018.
Imagine if the United States and Mexico, two close allies, both had strong female leaders guiding the conversation, breaking up the good old boys club, and strengthening Latin-American relations.With Mexico up in arms about Trump s visit (and rightfully so), the message has been sent: our allies south of the border appear to be With Her.
And they appear to be with Zavala, at least on this issue.Featured image via Gage Skidmore