On Tuesday night, one lone city, Richmond, California, unanimously voted to impeach Donald Trump.
They hope they are only the first.
Unfortunately with this president it s oddly appropriate, said Richmond City Councilmember Jael Myrick.Councilmember Gayle McLaughlin spearheaded the resolution, which calls on Congress to investigate the president s business holdings, something his critics believe are grounds for impeachment.
This is our voice, she said.
This is our country.
We have a right to speak up.
Of course, cities can t impeach a president.
That s up to Congress, as one resident mentioned: Actually you don t have a voice because the GOP controls Congress and you people are stupid enough to think Congress will impeach Trump, said Richmond resident Mark Wassberg.Another resident had an answer for that: A lot of politicians aren t willing to go on the record to do this because it can go against them, said Richmond resident Ellen Faden.
But as grass roots, as Bernie said, we have to start from the grass roots.
Source: ABC 7 NewsHere s the video:While Richmond may be the first city to formally (and yes, toothlessly) endorse impeachment, the movement is gaining momentum among the voters.
So far, nearly a quarter million people have signed a Change.org petition for impeachment, and that s just the tip of the iceberg.
There are other petitions as well.Whether or not it will happen is still to be seen.
Trump has already violated his oath of office by profiting off of the presidency.
He has already violated the Emoluments Clause in the Constitution, which states that leaders cannot accept large gifts from foreign states.
There might be several examples, but the most damning is the fact that, after years of being denied a trademark for plastering his name all over China, his trademark was suddenly approved last week.Richmond is in a fortunate situation.
Its Congressperson and its two Senators are all Democratic.
It might just take some gentle urging from other cities and constituents to get the ball rolling.
This is certainly a start, if impeachment (Pence) is what we want.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images