Florida mom and hardcore gun nut Jamie Gilt is back in the news again after police recommended that she be charged in the incident that left her with a gunshot wound in her back.You probably all remember this idiot but if you don t, she is the pro-Second Amendment nutter who ran a Facebook page, Jamie Gilt For Gun Sense, (it s been deleted) where she bragged about letting her 4-year-old son handle a firearm.
All of her responsible gun owning ways came to a head earlier this month when she left her freedom extension within reach of her small son and he picked it up, shooting while she was driving.On Tuesday, Putnam County Sheriff s Capt.
Gator DeLoach announced that the department is recommending she be charged for her stupidity, but their recommendation will surely piss you off.
According to CBS News:Police say they are recommending a charge of allowing a child access to a firearm.Gilt could face up to 180 days in jail, reports CBS affiliate WJAX.
The State Attorney s Office will ultimately make a decision on if charges will be filed.That s right, the police think that she should only be charged with a misdemeanor even though her actions put her son in mortal danger.
CBS News also reported that the Florida Department of Children and Families have opened a case, but it looks as though she still has custody of her son.
This is unbelievably outrageous.At the very least Gilt should have been charged with felony child neglect.
According to Florida law, felony child neglect is defined as:A caregiver s failure or omission to provide a child with the care, supervision, and services necessary to maintain the child s physical and mental health, including, but not limited to, food, nutrition, clothing, shelter, supervision, medicine, and medical services that a prudent person would consider essential for the well-being of the child.This woman left a deadly weapon within reach of her four-year-old son.
Not only was it within reach, but he handled the weapon and shot her.
He could have very easily shot himself and died.
Thankfully, though, her dumb ass was the only person injured.
Now, if that isn t a failure to provide supervision I have no idea what is.This woman should never be allowed to own a gun again and she should not be allowed custody of her child until she takes some very intensive parenting classes.
Her refusal to practice proper gun safety almost killed that little boy, and if she walks away from this with nothing but a misdemeanor charge we will have witnessed another great injustice in the state of Florida.Featured image via CBS