When watching Donald Trump speak, you d think he was running for prom king the way he assumes this election is all about himself and not the country.
Just count how many times he uses the words me, I, my or myself within a speech.
He s not running to lead the nation, he s running to have the nation line up behind him.
He has it exactly opposite of the true intent set forth by our Founding Fathers.
The President of the United States serves the nation, it s not the other way around.Knowing this full well, Barack Obama, before he was elected as the 44th President of the United States, delivered a commencement speech to Knox College in Illinois back in 2005.
He spoke of who we are as a nation, and what should be expected of us, our nation and our government.One part of his speech touched upon the very important message that we are all in this together.
We re not a nation of me, or myself like Trump would like you to believe, but rather a nation of we and us.
After all, the nation s motto is E PLURIBUS UNUM, which means, out of many, we are one.Here is that very poignant moment from then Senator Obama: In Washington, they call this the Ownership Society.
But in our past there has been another term for it Social Darwinism, every man and woman for him or herself.
It s a tempting idea, because it doesn t require much thought or ingenuity.
It allows us to say to those whose health care or tuition may rise faster than they can afford tough luck.
It allows us to say to the Maytag workers who have lost their job life isn t fair.
It let s us say to the child born into poverty pull yourself up by your bootstraps.
And it is especially tempting because each of us believes that we will always be the winner in life s lottery, that we will be Donald Trump, or at least that we won t be the chump that he tells: Your fired!
But there a problem.
It won t work.
It ignores our history.
It ignores the fact that it has been government research and investment that made the railways and the internet possible.
It has been the creation of a massive middle class, through decent wages and benefits and public schools that has allowed all of us to prosper.
Our economic dominance has depended on individual initiative and belief in the free market; but it has also depended on our sense of mutual regard for each other, the idea that everybody has a stake in the country, that we re all in it together and everybody s got a shot at opportunity that has produced our unrivaled political stability.
Bravo!
That man should be president.
Oh wait, three years later he was.We need to remember that we re all in this together, and we really don t need someone who thinks he s running for prom king as our next president.
Part of being an American is embracing the fact that we are all individuals striving for excellence, but recognizing that our excellence is only possibly because we have a society set up for all of us, not just the few.
Or rather, that s the way it should be, and what we need to get back to.
Electing Trump would further destroy the fabric our the nation that Republicans have been trying to tear apart slowly but surely since 1980.
So, come November, no matter who get s the Democratic nomination, vote blue.Watch Obama s speech here, with those remarks beginning at the 13:19 minute mark:Featured image via video screen capture