The Seattle Seahawks will become the first team to join 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in protesting during the National Anthem.According to starting linebacker Bobby Wagner, the team has a big surprise in store for the opening game of the season when the Star Spangled Banner is sung.
Wagner said that the entire team will be taking part, but he did not say if the players plan to sit or kneel.
Anything we want to do, it s not going to be individual.
It s going to be a team thing.
That s what the world needs to see.
The world needs to see people coming together versus being individuals, Wagner said.Last Thursday, Seahawks cornerback Jeremy Lane became one of the first two players to join Kaepernick when he sat on the sidelines during the National Anthem.
He was supported by head coach Pete Carroll, who recently stood up for Lane when the inevitable criticism came following last week s game.
[Lane] s pretty clear on what he did and what he was trying to express and I think it is very simple and so we ll leave that up to him, Carroll said of Lane s decision to protest.Starting wide receiver Doug Baldwin also expressed his support for Kaepernick and his protest via social media.
Baldwin defended Kaepernick s protest when he faced harsh criticism for his decision to sit, and later kneel in honor of the military, during the National Anthem.
Baldwin blasted those condemning the 49ers quarterback and reminded them what free speech actually means.We honor those who fight for our right to freedom of speech and then condemn those who exercise that right?
Doug Baldwin Jr (@DougBaldwinJr) September 2, 2016Don t tell me you just disagree with the methods.
You really mean to say you disagree with the cause.
Doug Baldwin Jr (@DougBaldwinJr) September 2, 2016To change the status quo you have to upset the status quo.
Not by going with the flow.You have to stand/sit for what you believe in.
Doug Baldwin Jr (@DougBaldwinJr) September 2, 2016Kaepernick was joined in kneeling on the sidelines during the anthem last week by fellow 49er Eric Reid.
U.S. Women s National Team soccer player Megan Rapinoe, and several members of the West Virginia Tech volleyball team have also chosen to sit or kneel rather than stand during the Star Spangled Banner, to show their solidarity with Kaepernick and the issues he is trying to bring attention to.Kaepernick has said that he is not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color.
Speaking of the police brutality epidemic plaguing America, Kaepernick added that, There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
Featured image via Ezra Shaw/Getty Images