Steve Bannon, Donald Trump s new campaign CEO, is the former chairman of the radical alt-right media company Breitbart.
On Sunday, Reliable Sources host Brian Stelter and former Breitbart spokesman Kurt Bardella explained that the site is the de facto SuperPAC of Donald Trump.
The two, along with former NPR CEO, Ken Stern explained the significance of the merger.Stelter begins the segment by describing the political merger as Trumpbart.
We could call it a political merger, Trumpbart.
This week, GOP pollster Kellyanne Conway became the new face of Donald Trump s campaign, appearing all across TV.
But it s Steve Bannon who may be the new inner voice of the campaign.
Until Tuesday, he was the executive chairman of the far-right website Breitbart.
On Wednesday, he became the Trump campaign s CEO.
Stelter asks Bardell to describe Breitbart to people who may not be familiar with the media site.
Bardell responds, saying: I think you look at it as the de facto SuperPAC of Donald Trump.
And really for the last year, year and a half in the Republican primary, they have been the rapid response arm of the Trump campaign.
Anytime anything, Bardell says before being interrupted by Stelter.
Rapid response arm of the Trump campaign?
Let s underscore that You re saying it s even, what, further to the right than Fox News?
Oh my gosh, it s not even a they make Fox News look like MSNBC, Bardella clarifies.
I think that any time that there was a controversy, something that Trump may have said that was generating headlines, Breitbart was the first destination that you could go to to see in real time what the Trump line of thinking was.
It was the most sympathetic voice for Trump, and anytime that anyone in the mainstream media would in any way, characterize, or attack, or question Trump s tactics, they were the place that you could go to for that sympathetic ear for Trump.
This merger comes at an odd time for the Trump campaign it might end up being Breitbart that benefits from the merger.
Trump has already tried and failed to pivot to the center multiple times on his most controversial positions.
Having Bannon on board his campaign is only going to make that task that much more difficult.
Breitbart, on the other hand, has a spokesman who they can use to make whatever reactionary conspiracy they might have go mainstream.You can watch the segment below.Featured image from video screenshot