Yet another conservative is openly expressing his support for the #NeverTrump movement and it s none other than Michael Reagan, the son of former President Ronald Reagan.On Monday, Michael took to Twitter to tell his followers that he would not be voting for The Donald on Tuesday, and that he firmly believes that his father would also refrain from voting for the business mogul if he was still alive.
Of course, Reagan was immediately attacked by Trump s die-hard followers, who tried to argue his claim that the former President wouldn t have backed Trump if he were here today.
Here s how that went:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterReagan is one of an overwhelming amount of Republicans abandoning the GOP solely because Donald Trump is the presumptive Republican nominee.
No one can forget that when Trump was announced as the leader in the GOP race, conservatives all across the country reacted by burning and tearing up their voter registration cards.
In some cases, GOP voters left their affiliation with the party altogether.Reagan has spoken against Trump before, with the assertion that his father would not approve of the business mogul being the GOP nominee.
A few months ago, during an interview with Newsmax, Reagan slammed Trump s campaign, and the Republicans who support it: My father would be appalled by what s going on with this campaign.
Are you a Trump Republican, or are you a Reagan Republican?
Because you cannot be both.
The words of Reagan s son are particularly humorous considering that Trump has compared himself to Reagan before, when he claimed he evoke[s] the name Ronald Reagan.
Trump said on CBS s Face The Nation: Ronald Reagan was a fairly liberal Democrat, and he evolved over years and he became more and more conservative.
And he was not a very conservative person, but he was pretty conservative.
And he ended up being a great president.
Clearly, no one else sees the similarities besides The Donald, and many GOPers such as Reagan s son don t have any faith in Trump to be a great president .Featured image via Wikimedia