When it comes to Donald Trump, there s really not much you can believe that comes out of his mouth except for what can only be assumed is a putrid odor, and this is explained by the fact that he talks out of his ass.Beautifully proving this point was none other than Last Week Tonight s John Oliver in a segment utterly dismantling Trump s plan for a border wall with Mexico.Point by point, down to the size, capability, location, and price tag, Oliver successfully turns Trump s plan into a decaying pile of pig shit.
It s absolute nonsense, and better plans have been constructed on the back of a napkin at Chuck-E-Cheese by a desperate father brainstorming his escape from the chaos.However, knowing that this great wall is pretty much one of the few things Trump talks about, Oliver said: The border wall is one of the few policy proposals Trump has talked about in detail, so instead of mocking or dismissing it out of hand, tonight let s take a serious proposal by a serious presidential candidate seriously.
It was then that the dismantling began, and there was absolutely no refuting it.
And no matter how much the wall costs, Oliver points out that according to the Sierra Club, The Congressional Budget Office estimates that wall maintenance costs will exceed the initial construction costs within seven years He then used this brilliant comparison: It s a big, dumb thing that only gets more expensive over time.
It s like getting a pet walrus: You think it s stupid now, wait until you learn what a bucket of sea cucumbers costs.
You ve not prepared for that!
Which pretty much sums up the realism of the wall and how it s going to be built and maintained, because Mexico has made it damn clear they re not going to be the ones paying for it.
And if you need proof that this wall is just simply never going to happen, the Washington Post fact checked everything right here.Trump has no plans to actually build this wall.
He has no plans for anything.
He s talking out of his ass, and because so many Americans are racist shiteaters, they gleefully consume every last ounce of his poppycock.Kudos to Oliver for this brilliant takedown.
Well f*cking done.Featured image via video screen capture