Kellyanne Conway advertised Ivanka Trump s clothing and product line during a Fox News interview on Thursday morning.
And that is expressly forbidden by federal regulations.On Wednesday, Donald Trump lashed out at the retailer Nordstrom for dropping his daughter s product line after months of boycotts and lack of sales made it unfeasible to continue carrying them.My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom.
She is a great person always pushing me to do the right thing!
Terrible!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017On Fox & Friends, Conway literally begged Fox viewers to buy Ivanka s products.
Go buy Ivanka s stuff is what I would tell you, she said after accusing Nordstrom of attacking Donald Trump by targeting his daughter.
I hate shopping, I m going to go get some myself today.
This is just a wonderful line.
I own some of it.
I fully I m going to give a free commercial here.
Go buy it today, everybody.
You can find it online.
And with those words, Conway broke Federal Code 2635.702, which bans public employees from using their office for private or personal gain, including for family members.
Donald Trump did this through Conway and she works for him, making her a public employee.Federal Code 2635.702 specifically states,An employee shall not use his public office for his own private gain, for the endorsement of any product, service or enterprise, or for the private gain of friends, relatives, or persons with whom the employee is affiliated in a nongovernmental capacity, including nonprofit organizations of which the employee is an officer or member.It further states that, An employee shall not use or permit the use of his Government position or title or any authority associated with his public office to endorse any product, service or enterprise.
There are only two exceptions to this rule and neither excuse what Conway did.And that why former ethics czar Norm Eisen called out Conway during an appearance on MSNBC and called for an investigation and penalties.
By doing this ad I have never seen anything like it it s a violation of the rules, pure and simple.
I imagine that you are going to see complaints flowing in.
The responsibility to oversee this in the first instance is with the White House counsel, Don McGahn.
He s going to need to look at the rules, look at the precedents and decide what range of penalties might apply.
And I think the Office of Government Ethics will also have a look at it.
So, it s a serious matter.
Here s the video via YouTube:Kellyanne Conway and Donald Trump violated federal regulations and ethics rules.
He literally used his office to advertise his daughter s shitty products by sending Kellyanne Conway on Fox News and there needs to be consequences for what they did.Read more:Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images