Fox News created a monster, and now he is eating them alive.Over the course of President Obama s presidency, Fox News gleefully welcomed Donald Trump to the studio, whether in person or via telephone to make crazy attacks against him, thus instantly making him a star among the network s conservative viewers.And it seems like the honeymoon between Fox and Trump would never end as Fox initially supported Trump s presidential campaign.But then Trump totally turned against Fox News, particularly host Megyn Kelly, and it s been downhill ever since.As Trump continues to lead in the Republican primary polls by a large margin, he has been able to keep massive support from conservatives while repeatedly attacking Fox News.And the Republican billionaire continued slamming Fox News on Wednesday morning at a rally in South Carolina and on Twitter, where he took aim at Fox for being biased.
Fox News is so biased it is disgusting, Trump wrote, accusing the network of of trying to kill his campaign via negative messaging..@FoxNews is so biased it is disgusting.
They do not want Trump to win.
All negative!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2016Trump then expanded upon his attack during the rally.
I get treated so badly.
I was watching Fox this morning.
They treat me so badly.
Fox treats me, like, worse than anybody.
But I get treated badly by the media.
I don t even I don t really understand why.
They have pundits on that are just one after another negative, negative, negative.
It started where actually nobody they all thought I wasn t going to run and they said, he ll never run, he ll never run and then they look bad and then they just don t stop.
Some of them have become much better but I think Fox in particular treats me so badly, it s incredible.
Here s the video via YouTube.Because of Trump, it s very possible that Fox s audience is now split on how to feel about the network, which affect ratings.
And remember, Fox News only has themselves to blame.
Featured image from Wikimedia