The protesters win by scaring people into silence which is known in the law as the heckler s veto.
when the hecklers scream so loudly, or in this case advertised their intention to scream that the speaker can t speak.
When this happens on property owned by the government a prima fascia case has been made I m afraid we are in danger of losing free speech.
JUDGE NAPOLITANOThis is what happened when pro-Trump supporters held a peaceful rally in Berkeley:THE BIRTHPLACE OF FREE SPEECH IS NOW OFFICIALLY A PLACE OF OPPRESSION Berkeley students came together to shut down the free speech rights of gay, conservative activist Milo Yiannopoulis in February.
Students violently attacked fellow students who tried to attend Milo s scheduled speech, random fires were lit, windows were broken and rocks were thrown.
Using violence, threats and intimidation to shut down opposing views is not only un-American it should be illegal.
But we re not talking about just any college or city in America, we re talking about UC Berkeley, the former home of free-speech UC Berkeley has now banned conservative commentator and author Ann Coulter, citing security threats.According to Young America s Foundation, student organizers of an upcoming Ann Coulter event at the university were emailed by Berkeley administrators who claimed they were unable to find a safe suitable venue for Coulter.
UC-Berkeley, a publicly-funded university, first imposed a series of ridiculous requirements on the speech allegedly in the name of safety.
Coulter, we were informed, would be required to deliver her speech in the afternoon; only students would be allowed to attend; and the speech location would not be announced until close to the event, they continued.
Against our advice, Coulter agreed to all these requirements.
In return, she requested two measures, which actually had something to do with safety.
This is as clear-cut a case as it gets that public universities are using taxpayer dollars to shut down conservative speech, while allowing liberal speech only, Young America s Foundation proclaimed.
UC-Berkeley has for example, welcomed the corrupt former President of Mexico, Vicente Fox, who has cursed at and mocked Donald Trump, currently the President of the United States.
The university, and U-C chancellor Janet Napolitano personally, have revealed themselves to be using taxpayer money for an unconstitutional purpose.
Even after Coulter went along with their ruses and guises to shut down her speech, they simply announced, like Kim Jung Un, that it was cancelled.
We have no intention of acceding to these unconstitutional acts, the organization concluded.
The Ann Coulter lecture sponsored by Young America s Foundation will go forward.
Ron Robinson, the President of Young America s Foundation, further declared in a quote that Berkeley disappoints anyone who really believes in free speech.
Their actions to ban conservatives while giving leftists a platform reinforces this fact, Robinson claimed.
It s a shame that Berkeley is robbing its students of the opportunity to receive a well-rounded education.
Breitbart