A former evangelical Christian is ripping conservatives for repealing the Affordable Care Act.Bruce Horst knows what it is like to have pre-existing conditions while trying to purchase health insurance.
Prior to Obamacare, insurance companies refused to cover him, leaving him and his family vulnerable if a health crisis ever arose.
But because of Obamacare, people with pre-existing conditions can no longer be denied health insurance.Obamacare literally saved Horst and his family from the threat of bankruptcy over a medical issue.But last week during a late night vote, Republicans in the Senate and House voted to repeal the healthcare law that covers over 30 million Americans.And conservatives cheered.Well, that didn t sit well with Horst, who despite being an atheist, probably knows the Bible better than most of these so-called evangelical Christians do.So Horst took these fake Christians to the woodshed on Facebook for applauding the death sentence Republicans just handed to millions of human beings.
I have the simple conviction that it is immoral to give a person medical help according to how much they can pay, Horst wrote.
Or maybe it s because of what I ve read in the Bible.
In 2010 I had been a Conservative Evangelical Christian for all of my adult life.
I began to realize that others around me despised the thought of allowing people like me the benefit of affordable health insurance.
For some reason, all of the Christians that I knew thought that offering health insurance to people like me would put them at some kind of a disadvantage that they were not willing to accept.
Frankly, they had been lied to so they believed those others were going to get healthcare and make their own healthcare inadequate.As a Christian, I believed that I would be judged on the Final Judgment Day on how I took care of the least of these as described in the Bible book of Matthew, chapter 25.
I came to the sober realization that Christians around me had no such convictions.
If they didn t believe Jesus words as recorded in the Bible, why should I?
Then one day I discovered I could no longer believe any of it.While conservatives complain that not as many people are attending church anymore, it turns out their hypocrisy and heartlessness is one of the reasons why people such as Horst have stopped believing.
Stripping millions of Americans of the healthcare they need just further proved that Horst was right to leave the church when he did.Horst went on to call out Republicans in Congress and blasted how the hypocritical conservatives are when they claim to be pro-life.
I understand that Congress is about to take away the healthcare coverage of about 18 million of our fellow Americans.
And they are doing this at the insistence of Conservative Evangelical Christians.
I have friends who are alive today because of Obamacare.
Probably all of us do.
To me, this proves my Christian friends are not pro-life, but instead they ve been told they are as a matter of manipulation, probably to keep them putting money in the offering plate, or voting for the right candidate.
One thing is clear to me, they are not really pro-life.I don t know what Congress is going to do with healthcare in the next few days.
I would love to be surprised to find that President Trump has convinced Congress to extend healthcare coverage to all, and I would be among the first to be grateful for this.
While even if this does occur, if my Christian friends insist that healthcare only be given to people based on their ability to pay for such care, I would have to believe that the Jesus of the Bible would say to them, depart from me, I never knew you.
Just like He did in Matthew 25.In other words, conservatives are going to hell for condemning millions of Americans to suffer.
It s not what Jesus would do and any conservative who says otherwise is only pretending to be a Christian.Featured Image: i.ytimg.com