The exclusive below from Fox news skips the fact that the Trump dossier had been circulated around but was NEVER proven to be true AT ALL!
Why did John McCain feel it necessary to bring this fake dossier to the attention of anyone in the U.S. intel community?
The Deep State desperately wants to destroy President Trump and this happens to be Exhibit Numero Uno:The man who says he acted as a go-between last year to inform Sen. John McCain about the controversial dossier containing salacious allegations about then-candidate Donald Trump is speaking out, revealing how the ex-British spy who researched the document helped coordinate its release to the FBI, the media and Capitol Hill.
My mission was essentially to be a go-between and a messenger, to tell the senator and assistants that such a dossier existed, Sir Andrew Wood told Fox News in an exclusive interview with senior executive producer Pamela K. Browne.Fox News spoke to Wood at the 2017 Halifax International Security Forum in Nova Scotia, Canada.
As Britain s ambassador to Moscow from 1995-2000, Wood witnessed the end of Russian President Boris Yeltsin and the rise of Vladimir Putin.Just after the U.S. presidential election in November 2016, Arizona GOP Sen. McCain spoke at the same security conference.
Wood says he was instructed by former British spy Christopher Steele to reach out to the senior Republican, whom Wood called a good man, about the unverified document.HERE S WHAT MCCAIN HAD TO SAY A FEW MONTHS AGO PUT THIS IN THE CONTEXT OF WHAT WE KNOW NOW:THE RUSSIAN LAWYER MET WITH SIMPSON OF FUSION GPS BEFORE THE MEETING WITH TRUMP JR IT WAS A SET-UP!Watch RINO Senator John McCain express his concern overt the seriousness of Donald Trump Jr. s meeting with the Russian lawyer about the lifting US sanctions on Russian adoption.
It s curious that the reporter never asked McCain about his efforts to smear our president with a unsubstantiated dirty dossier from an ex-spy:In August 2016, Steele came to me to tell me what was in it, and why it was important, Wood said.
He made it very clear yes, it was raw intelligence, but it needed putting into proper context before you could judge it fully.
August 2016 is a critical period, just after the FBI opened the Russia meddling probe, and after then-director James Comey recommended against prosecution for Clinton s mishandling of classified information.Wood said Steele had already been in contact with the FBI at the time.
He said there was corroborating evidence in the United States, from which I assumed he was working with an American company, Wood said.British court records reviewed by Fox News as well as U.S. congressional testimony revealed that Steele was directed and paid at least $168,000 by Fusion GPS founder Glenn Simpson to push the research that fall to five American media outlets.
According to British court documents, Steele met with The New York Times (twice), The Washington Post (twice), CNN, The New Yorker and Yahoo News (twice).
Each of these interviews was conducted in person and with a member of Fusion also present, according to the records associated with separate civil litigation against Steele and Fusion GPS.Wood said he d heard of Fusion GPS, as the group Steele was working with, but had never heard of Mr. Simpson.
Three weeks after Trump won the presidential election, at the Canadian security conference, the details were finalized for the dossier hand-off to McCain.Read more: Fox News