This is such a sad, tragic and misunderstood story by so many.
Was the now deceased father of 11, LaVoy Finicum simply defending his rights as defined in the U.S. Constitution, or did he cross the line?Oregon protest leader Ammon Bundy and seven others were arrested Tuesday night.
Protester LaVoy Finicum was killed in the confrontation with police and the FBI.video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo playerThe daughter of Malheur Refuge occupation spokesman LaVoy Finicum, reportedly killed by federal agents during a traffic stop north of Burns, said Wednesday her father was a loving man and loved freedom more than his life.Finicum s daughter Thara Lynn Tenney posted a message on her Facebook page last night asserting that her father had already surrendered before he was gunned down.
I want the world to know how my father was murdered today.
His hands were in the air and he was shot in the face by the American authorities.
Ammon Bundy reported there are 6 witnesses to this evil, wrote Tenney.Her testimony was echoed by another eyewitness, Victoria Sharp, who was in the car with Finicum when the group were pulled over by cops and federal agents.
Sharp claims that Finicum put his hands out of the car window and asked the police to allow the women to leave the car.
They shot at him, but they missed him, said Sharp, adding that the group then attempted to drive away in the car but were shot at again by police.
When we crashed and stopped for a second, he got out of the car, he had his hands in the air, he s like just shoot me then .and they did, they shot him dead, said Sharp.Challice Finch said she is heading back to Arizona from her home in Texas to be with her family.Finch s father reportedly was killed by federal agents during a traffic stop on Highway 395 in Harney County, law enforcement officials are quoted as saying.The traffic stop led to the arrest of Ammon Bundy and several militia members, who appeared in U.S. District Court in Portland Wednesday afternoon.LaVoy Finicum had told reporters he would die before he would go to prison.Finicum, a rancher from Colorado City, Arizona, traveled several hundred miles to join the Bundy militia at the refuge.Now there s video The FBI released video of LaVoy Finicum s shooting.
He had his hands up.
He s a great man, and just because he s dead doesn t mean his fight will not go on.
He s now a martyr, Finch said.Nevada Assemblywoman Michelle Fiore tweeted My heart and prayers go out to the LaVoy Finicum s family.
He was just murdered with his hands up in Burns, OR.
Ryan Bundy has been shot in the arm.
Federal agents say all in the two obeyed orders to surrender, except for two people, Finicum and Ryan Bundy.Finch said her father texted her hours before leaving to meet with the Grant County Sheriff Glenn Palmer on Tuesday, a trip interrupted by the fateful traffic stop.
He sent me a text to just check on me, making sure that I was doing good and to remember to pray and to let me know that he was thinking of me, and that he loved me and was praying for me every day.
Finch said.On Wednesday Cliven Bundy, father of Ammon Bundy, told reporters his son told him the FBI murdered militia spokesman LaVoy Finicum with his hands up.
LaVoy Finicum was murdered.
Cold-blooded murder.
They shot him with his hands up.
https://youtu.be/kkIw2F6cfeoVia: Gateway Pundit