We ve written numerous articles on the horrible human rights record in Saudi Arabia and how the U.S. keeps pushing them as arbiters of great human rights.
It s very puzzling!Saudi Arabia is not only horrible when it comes to all human rights, they are especially abysmal when it comes to women s rights (see list below).
Electing Saudi Arabia to protect women s rights is like making an arsonist into the town fire chief Hillel Neuer, executive director of UN Watch.So why did the UN just vote to make Saudi Arabia a member of the Women s Rights Commission?
The Economic and Social Commission of the United Nations voted for this but it s not clear which countries voted for this because the vote was held behind closed doors.This is one more example of why we need to turn the United Nations building into condos and shut it down!Even Obama s State Department s recent human rights record on Saudi Arabia says that women s rights there remain less than satisfactory:Women continued to face significant discrimination under law and custom, and many remained uninformed about their rights.
The law does not provide for the same legal status and rights for women as for men, and since there is no codified personal-status law, judges made decisions regarding family matters based on their interpretations of Islamic law.
Although they may legally own property and are entitled to financial support from their guardian, women have fewer political or social rights than men, and society treated them as unequal members in the political and social spheres.
The guardianship system requires that every woman have a close male relative as her guardian with the legal authority to approve her travel outside of the country.
A guardian also has authority to approve some types of business licenses and study at a university or college.
Women can make their own determinations concerning hospital care.
Women can work without their guardian s permission, but most employers required women to have such permission.
A husband who verbally (rather than through a court process) divorces his wife or refuses to sign final divorce papers continues to be her legal guardian.
Can you believe it?
Women in Saudi Arabia were just allowed to vote!
Can you also believe that Saudi Arabia is head of the human rights council at the United Nations even though this barbaric place is one of the biggest human rights offenders around?
Yes, the beheadings this year are in record numbers for this barbaric Middle Eastern country.
We recently posted rare footage of a tour bus catching a public execution on the side of the road.Oh, the amazing thing is that Saudi Arabia has accepted ZERO refugees except guest workers.
They have a tent city set up for millions (yes, millions) but refuse to let the refugees into their country.
Human rights my ass!Here are 7 things that women in Saudi Arabia still can t do:1.
Go anywhere without a male guardian.Saudi women must accompany a male relative, known as a mahram , whenever they venture out of the house.
Mahram accompanies the women at all times, including for shopping trips and visits to the doctor.2.
Drive a car.Although there is no official law that bans women from driving, the country s deeply held religious beliefs prohibit it, with some clerics argue that female drivers undermine social values.
3.
Wear clothes that show off their bodySaudi women s dress code is governed by a strict interpretation of Islamic law.
Women must wear a long black cloak and a head scarf.
Religious police would stop them if they expose too much flesh or wear too much makeup.4.
Interact with menSaudi women are expected to limit their interactions with men other than their family members or relatives.
The majority of public buildings including offices, banks and universities have separate entrances for men and women.
Public transportation, parks, beaches and amusement parks are also segregated in most parts of the country.
Unlawful mixing will lead to criminal charges.5.
Go for a swimSaudi women are not expected to swim in public swimming pools or used by male members.6.
Compete in sportsWomen athletes are looked down upon by the conservative Saudi society.
It s generally hard for women to compete freely in sports.
Though they are allowed to participate, they had to be accompanied by a male guardian and wear a Sharia-compliant sports kit that covered their hair.7.
Try on clothes when shoppingSaudi women are not expected to try on clothes while shopping.
Doing so, may attract punishment.Via: Zee News IndiaTHOUSANDS SHARED THIS CARTOON SHOWING HOW RIDICULOUS SAUDI LAWS ARE FOR WOMEN: