It is a violation of federal election laws to use campaign funds to pay for personal expenses, but that s exactly what California Rep. Duncan Hunter has been busted for doing.According to the San Diego Union Tribune,Campaign finance reports show $5,339 in such charges during 2015 alone: $1,128 in travel, $1,650 to Hunter s children s school in El Cajon, $1,424 for video games and $1,137 paid to an oral and facial surgeon.The forms list only one personal expense that was actually paid back by Hunter $169 on Oct. 21, with no indication of which personal expense was being reimbursed.
None of the other outstanding charges were listed as repaid, or as an ongoing debt to the campaign for the year-end accounting.So it s hard to believe that Hunter will actually pay back the funds he and his family have stolen to enrich themselves like he said he would do in a statement.
There was no taxpayer money involved, and I take full responsibility, Hunter said before claiming that he s going to pay everything back by tomorrow morning, with interest.
Hunter has been a member of the House of Representatives since 2013, and it didn t take long before he and his family started personally gaining financially off campaign funds.Even his own wife gets paid $3,000 a month as his supposed campaign manager.And Hunter clearly knows that he has been breaking the law all this time even though he lamely blamed the video game charges on his own son despite admitting that he and his wife are the only ones who had a campaign credit card.The Tribune reports that a $1,650 payment on Sept. 21 to Christian Unified Schools where Hunter s three children attend was listed as a personal expense to be paid back on Hunter s form for the period ending Dec. 31.
Hunter literally listed a payment as a personal expense, which provides all the evidence the Federal Election Commission needs to throw the book at him.This is yet another example of the hypocrisy Republicans have demonstrated.
For years, the GOP has attacked food stamp recipients of living on the dole.
Meanwhile, a Republican like Hunter uses campaign funds to pay for lavish personal expenses instead of using his own bank account.
The difference is that food stamp recipients actually NEED food stamps to put food on the table.
That s not laziness, it s survival.
What Hunter is doing on the other hand, is laziness and theft and not only should he be forced to pay back every cent, he should be forced to resign.Featured image: YouTube