Donald Trump s tax return: we ve heard about little else over the last few days.
Voters are asking for them.
Mitt Romney is asking for them.
Trump initially told us that he wouldn t provide his taxes because the IRS is auditing them.
Well, the IRS weighed in on that issue a couple of months ago, and they didn t mince words.IRS Chief John Koskinen explained in an interview with C-SPAN, The taxpayer controls his returns.
There s nothing in an IRS audit process generally that would keep you from sharing that information generally, any way you wanted to.
Koskinen further stated, It would be rare for someone to be audited every year, and that someone would not undergo another audit for a few years, two or three at least, after IRS audit the previous year.
It would be rare, Koskinen stated.Source: Greenville GazetteHere s the video:Even that hasn t stopped Trump from sticking to his audit story.In interview I told @AP that my taxes are under routine audit and I would release my tax returns when audit is complete, not after election!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 11, 2016On Friday, though, his words were harsher, telling George Stephanopolous that it s none of (his) business.
Aside from his supporters, few people are buying the audit story.
Some are speculating that he might be a lot less wealthy than he says.
Romney speculates that there might be something a lot more nefarious, like mob connections.There s also another possibility, and frankly, it could be a combination of everything: Trump is simply pandering to his voters.
Angry white men hate the IRS.
The love paved roads and wars and many other things our tax money gives us, but they resent the fact that a percentage of their paychecks are going to the common good.
As a matter of fact, Trump was one of the only candidates who didn t say he wanted to abolish the IRS altogether.There s a good reason for that kind of rhetoric.
Polls show that among Republicans, especially Tea Party Republicans, only 15 percent view the IRS in a favorable light, while 62 percent of Democrats do.
What could possibly be a better tactic than turning yourself into a victim of the evil feds?
For Trump voters, nothing.Featured image by Scott Olson at Getty Images.