MSNBC host Lawrence O Donnell did not hold back on Thursday night.Earlier in the day, House Republican leadership saw the writing on the wall and canceled the vote on their healthcare bill.So far, 27 Republicans are leaning against the legislation it does nothing that Donald Trump promised it would do like lower premiums and cover everyone.Indeed, the bill would make premiums skyrocket uncontrollably and would strip healthcare from over 20 million Americans.
Senior citizens would suffer the brunt of the financial pain as they would would be charged ten times as much for health insurance under the bill than they are under the Affordable Care Act, which really has made health insurance more accessible and affordable.But after the vote in the House was canceled, Trump lashed out at House Republicans and demanded that a vote be taken on the bill on Friday because he refuses to negotiate any longer on it.So during his show on Thursday night, Lawrence O Donnell took Trump to the woodshed for quitting and noted that President Obama never quit trying to get the Affordable Care Act passed.
If you are a House Republican and this is a tough vote for you, the president is saying to you on the front page of the New York Times tomorrow, I quit, and I quit in the Senate.
I do not have the patience or the ability to stay focused on this and get it through the Senate, which is much harder than getting it through the House.
O Donnell is absolutely right.
Senate Republicans are even more concerned about the Trumpcare legislation.
If passed, the damage will even touch their own voter base, which could result in the Senate flipping back to the control of the Democrats.
The Senate is much more vulnerable to being lost than the House is since Republicans have guaranteed control of the House through gerrymandering.But O Donnell had even stronger words for Trump just a few seconds later.
This is the laziest, most ignorant president in history, O Donnell declared.
President Obama never once said something like this in the crusade to get that thing passed because he knew how to stay with it and get it passed.
Here s the video via YouTube:Trump is throwing a fit because he expects Congress to ass whatever he wants them to pass and it just doesn t work that way.
The Congressional Budget Office analysis of the bill was disastrous for the GOP.
And the bill is hated more by Americans than the Affordable Care Act ever was.
And thousands of their constituents have showed up at Republican town halls across the country to express their anger over their effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act.In the end, letting this bill die is probably the best move Republicans can make unless, of course, they propose replacing the Affordable Care Act with universal healthcare.
But we all know that will never happen even though it would cover everyone and bring the cost of healthcare down dramatically.One thing is certain, though.
When Donald Trump hears what O Donnell just said about him his head is going to explode.Featured image via screenshot