On Saturday, Donald Trump truly became the President with his latest in a series of dumbass attacks against MSNBC host Mika Brzezinski.For days, The Donald has been hammering Brzezinski in a nonsensical act of revenge because she laughed at the fake TIME Magazine covers Trump hangs all over his golf courses.
Crazy Joe Scarborough and dumb as a rock Mika are not bad people, but their low rated show is dominated by their NBC bosses, Trump whined.
Too bad!
Crazy Joe Scarborough and dumb as a rock Mika are not bad people, but their low rated show is dominated by their NBC bosses.
Too bad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 1, 2017On Thursday, The Donald began his series of assaults against low I.Q.
Crazy Mika whom he says he refused to meet with at the Mar-a-Lago because she was bleeding badly from a face-lift.
After Trump s attack, Mika and her husband-to-be, Joe Scarborough, revealed that The Donald had threatened them with a negative story in the National Enquirer if they didn t stop saying mean things about him something commonly recognized by even the world s most prolific idiots as blackmail.Trump confirmed this story in his Friday morning toilet tweets:Watched low rated @Morning_Joe for first time in long time.
FAKE NEWS.
He called me to stop a National Enquirer article.
I said no!
Bad show Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 30, 2017Apparently, Mister 45 s latest outburst was yet another childish attack spurred by the morning show couple s blackmail revelation and Americans are f*cking sick of it:Don t you have a country to run?
Actually I take that back stick to tweeting.
You ll do less damage w/ your petty internet tantrums.
John Kinnear (@askdadblog) July 1, 2017It s #saturdaymorning, do you know where your President is???
Yep putting out another tweet storm.
Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) July 1, 2017Hmm you create fake TIME covers and hang them in your hotels and resorts and then you go crazy when someone teases you about it?
SAD!
Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) July 1, 2017Have you thought about getting a grown-up to help you tweet?
Or just giving it up?
You re doing yourself terrible damage worldwide .
pic.twitter.com/4lqShUJJ0E Jack Schofield (@jackschofield) July 1, 2017If you defected to Russia, you wouldn t have to worry about the #TrumpRussia scandal, and Putin says they have the world s best prostitutes.
pic.twitter.com/jIkljhmIf5 Jack Schofield (@jackschofield) July 1, 2017Are all of your horrible tweets supposed to be examples for Melania to use in her campaign on cyber-bullying?
Tommy Campbell (@MrTommyCampbell) July 1, 2017You are a disgrace to the office and this country.
Jamie Grayson (@TheBabyGuyNYC) July 1, 2017How s your wife s cyber bullying campaign going?
kara vallow (@teenagesleuth) July 1, 2017I ll put money on the fact that that rock has a higher IQ than you.
Prove it?
Of course not.
Coward.
Angel Goulet (@AngelGoulet) July 1, 2017It s almost depressing to think that it could be three and a half more years before we have someone in the Oval Office who isn t a complete embarrassment to himself (or herself) and country.Featured image via Getty Images/screengrab