Whitewashing Hitler and the Holocaust seems to be all the rage among today s Republicans.
There was the time when the White House remembered the Holocaust on Holocaust Remembrance Day, but forgot to mention the Jews, at all.
Yesterday, Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Hitler didn t use chemical weapons.
He s been trying, and failing, at backtracking ever since.
Now, a Republican in North Carolina, on his Facebook page, compared Abraham Lincoln to Hitler.It was a comment by GOP Legislator Larry Pittman.
He posted his newsletter on Facebook, and among the rest of the hate, he commented this to a person telling him to get over the Supreme Court ruling that made same-sex marriage the law of the land (something he hopes to overturn, at the state level):And if Hitler had won, should the world just get over it?
Lincoln was the same sort if tyrant, and personally responsible for the deaths of over 800,000 Americans in a war that was unnecessary and unconstitutional.Obviously, his followers let him have it, but perhaps the best answer was this one:The Civil War was unnecessary and unconstitutional?
What on earth were you thinking?
The Republican Party used to be proudly called the Party of Lincoln.
I have no idea what to call it now, at least that could be repeated in polite company.Couldn t NC Rep #LarryPittman find someone else to compare #Hitler to rather than #Lincoln ?
@maddow #ncpol https://t.co/4sjhsCHPOs pic.twitter.com/LLSQv6y47q Indy Week (@indyweek) April 12, 2017Pittman clearly has no idea whatsoever what the Constitution says or he would not be putting forth a bill that would try to nullify federal law.
That is against the Constitution.
Now, so is slavery, although I m sure that s something else Pittman would like to nullify.Racism is nothing new for Pittman.
Like Donald Trump, he was a birther.
He said this about President Obama: Someone had posted something [on Facebook] with a picture of Barack Obama and across it said traitor, Pittman said.
And, you know, I don t always agree with the guy, I certainly didn t vote for him but I gotta defend him on this one.
I just don t think it s right at all to call Barack Obama a traitor.
There s a lot of things he s done wrong but he is not a traitor.
Not as far as I can tell.
I haven t come across any evidence yet that he has done one thing to harm Kenya.
Source: MSNBCBut hey, this is Trump s country now.
It s totally cool these days to let your racist flag fly high.
Double points if that flag belongs to the Confederacy.Image of Hitler via BBC | Image of Lincoln via Wikipedia.