Donald Trump is now saying that he knows more about computer hacking than the experts at the CIA and our other intelligence agencies.During an interview with the New York Times prior to a New Year s Eve party at Mar-a-Lago, Trump once again defended Russia and Putin by questioning the validity of an assessment by the intelligence community concluding that Russia meddled with our political process.
I just want them to be sure because it s a pretty serious charge, Trump said before invoking the lack of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
If you look at the weapons of mass destruction, that was a disaster, and they were wrong.
So I want them to be sure.
I think it s unfair if they don t know.
But that s not exactly true.
Former CIA official Tyler Drumheller said in 2006 that the Bush Administration ignored intelligence concluding that Iraq did NOT have weapons of mass destruction.
When presented with the assessment, Bush and his team refused to believe it and went to war in Iraq anyway.So when Trump blames the intelligence community for getting WMDs in Iraq wrong, it s inaccurate.
They actually got it right.
Bush was the one who was wrong by ignoring them.Trump didn t stop there, however.
Just like when he claimed to know more about ISIS than our generals, Trump claimed to know more about hacking than the experts at our intelligence agencies.
And I know a lot about hacking, Trup continued.
And hacking is a very hard thing to prove.
So it could be somebody else.
And I also know things that other people don t know, and so they cannot be sure of the situation.
He basically said the same thing on Twitter in December.Unless you catch hackers in the act, it is very hard to determine who was doing the hacking.
Why wasn t this brought up before election?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2016So apparently, Trump fancies himself a military genius and a computer expert.Seriously, Trump needs to stop pretending he knows things that he doesn t really know.
The reality is that he has never served in our military.
He s an expert at draft-dodging but he is certainly no expert on ISIS.
And while he clearly knows how to use social media, Trump definitely does not know how to hack a computer.
HOur intelligence agencies know how to trace hacks because hacking leaves traces and signatures that can be used to determine where the hack originated.That s how we know Russia hacked us.
It s incredibly dangerous for Trump to claim that he knows all this stuff and that he knows more than the experts.
Because then he can undermine the experts all the time and his gullible supporters will believe him instead of the facts, which is what Trump has been doing for over a year and a half now.
If Trump knows more about something, it s being a con artist.
He s been doing that for decades so he s total pro.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images