Only a liberal man who works for a magazine that made a fortune by exploiting women would complain that President Trump s female Deputy Press Secretary isn t giving him enough respect.
Yesterday a 56-year-old reporter representing Playboy magazine had an epic meltdown in the White House press briefing room after White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee-Sanders put him in his place following the release of an undercover bombshell video by Project Veritas that exposed CNN as a network that fabricates news for ratings.Brian Karem complained about journalists being called out as fake news when they report falsehoods, and protested on behalf of the honor of all White House journalists.
Conservative TreehouseIn an effort to capitalize on his moment in the sun, today 56-year-old Brian Karem runs to the Associated Press and claims Sarah Sanders and Sean Spicer (White House Press Secretaries) are bullying him and not giving him enough respect:AP The reporter who accused White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders of inflaming the public against the media at a press briefing says he did it because he s tired of being bullied by the administration.
There s a time and a place for everything and the time has come to stand up and be counted, Karem told The Associated Press on Wednesday.
I m tired of taking it.
I want friendly relationships, but those who want respect, show respect.
We have shown that man and shown the administration respect for six months, and all we re getting in return is a lack of respect, derision and bullying.
Karem, 56, is not a representative of the large national media organizations repeatedly described as fake news by the president.
Besides his editing, he writes for Playboy, where his first-person account of the confrontation was posted late Tuesday.
Note to Brian Karem: when a woman like Sarah Huckabee Sanders stands her ground and defends a man she respects and admires that s been unjustly accused of wrongdoing, is not called bullying she s simply not allowing herself to be steamrolled by the bullies in the media BOOOM Sarah Huckabee Sanders advises ALL to watch Veritas Video where CNN producer admits they realize Trump/Russia is a hoax but dont care!
pic.twitter.com/tng5DUmKq3 STOCK MONSTER (@StockMonsterUSA) June 27, 2017