On Wednesday morning, Donald Trump announced that he would be launching a full-scale investigation into why so many women and minorities were allowed to vote for his opponent voter fraud, including those registered to vote in two states.
Depending on the results of his investigation, President Asterisk says he plans to strengthen regulations to ensure that only white, straight men get to vote for the rest of time our elections are fair and only corrupt government officials and brutal foreign dictators have a say.I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time).
Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017Now, Trump is completely wrong about it being a crime to be registered in two states.
Voting in two states is a crime.
But let s humor him.
Let s say that is voter fraud.
He really doesn t have to look far at all to find someone.Trump senior advisor Steve Bannon is a lot of things: he s an anti-semite, a white supremacist, a douchebag, and an alleged domestic abuser.
He s also a proud registered voter in the state of New York and in Florida.Bannon registered to vote in New York shortly before the election and cast his ballot for Trump in only that state.
But he is also registered to vote at the home of a friend, Andy Badolato, in the Sunshine State.
He changed his address in Florida in August, shortly after reports surfaced that he was previously registered at an abandoned house.
Bannon did not commit voter fraud in any way, but according to Trump he is a criminal simply because he has an outdated registration in Florida.This must be uncomfortable for Trump, whose false claims about what does and does not constitute fraud has nailed one of his senior minions, but it s likely that he will ignore it because it doesn t quite fit his narrative that millions of people voted illegally for Hillary Clinton, and that is why he lost the popular vote.Did you ever think you would see the President abuse the powers of his office to satisfy his ego and push a debunked conspiracy theory?
Yeah, we didn t either, but here we are.Featured image via Getty Images/Mark Wilson