If you had any doubt in your mind that Republicans are absolutely repugnant, this should seal the deal.
In a tweet aimed at Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), a woman who is a double amputee from serving this country, the National Republican Senatorial Committee just tweeted out one of the most horrific things ever imaginable.
They said: Tammy Duckworth has a sad record of not standing up for our veterans.
They have since deleted their tweet, but screen captures live forever:Nice try, @NRSC You can delete your tweet, but screenshots are forever.
PS I'm a registered Illinois voter.
pic.twitter.com/mdzc9iHECe Blue Gal/Fran (@bluegal) March 8, 2016The link they sent went to a long list of things meant to bash Duckworth.
THAT is still live for now.They literally, time and time again, went after Duckworth on her supposed history with veterans.Now, you can go after a candidate on a lot of things regarding policy, but to outright say that Duckworth doesn t stand up for Veterans and to write an entire article as a vendetta against her, a veteran who literally sacrificed life and limb for this nation, isn t just horrible, it s outright reprehensible.
Not to mention a horrific metaphor of standing up for our veterans when Duckworth is often left to a wheelchair because she lost both her legs while serving.Let s also remember that Duckworth has received decorations for her actions, including the Purple Heart, the Air Medal, and the Combat Action Badge.
Here is what the Veterans group VoteVets.org thinks of Duckworth and her record: Since her recovery at Walter Reed, Duckworth has dedicated her life to public service, advocating on behalf of disability rights and Veterans.
She served as the Director of Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs where she implemented many first-in-the-nation, programs for Veterans, especially in the areas of health care, mental health, housing and employment.
She also initiated a new grant program, awarding lottery funds to non-profits working on Veterans disability, homelessness, long-term medical care and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
She was nominated by President Barack Obama and confirmed as the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Assistant Secretary under Eric Shinseki.
While at VA, Tammy led an unprecedented era of increased communication between the Department and the Veterans they serve.
There is NO recovery from this for Republicans.
Sorry, there just isn t. They may not want her as a Senator, but this is just LOW.Many people had the reaction I had when seeing the tweet:At least they deleted the Tweet, but they should still delete their account.
Wow, just wow.Featured image: Wikimedia Commons/Twitter