While Donald Trump was on the campaign trail he blasted the Bush administration, saying they lied about the existence of weapons of mass destruction, a talking point which led our country to invade a sovereign nation.
Trump has blasted politicians who voted for the Iraq War.
Trump argued that the move to topple Saddam Hussein may have been the worst decision in presidential history.
But now, he s bringing Dick Cheney on board to help ensure that Rex Tillerson is confirmed next year as Trump s secretary of state.Some Republicans have made it clear they have reservations about Tillerson s relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
So, Cheney is now Trump s surrogate in order to serve as a bridge between the Trump team and skeptical Republicans.
Cheney is a former oil executive and longtime friend of Tillerson s, according to Politico.It s a scenario no one could have possibly foreseen: that one of the key architects of the Iraq War, which Trump slammed on the campaign trail, is now being enlisted as an emissary for a man Trump wants to help steer his ship of state.Wrong, Politico.
At the present time, nothing is surprising anymore after Trump s election.Another transition aide said Cheney s imprimatur may serve as a good housekeeping seal of approval with Republican skeptics.
And indeed, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio received a call from the former vice president earlier this week.
The goal: To move Marco the right way, according to a source familiar with the conversation.
Rubio will cast a pivotal vote on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which must approve the nomination before it proceeds to the full Senate.Cheney is also in close contact with senior Trump aides and speaks frequently with Mike Pence who has said he hopes to model his vice presidency on Cheney s. Mike relishes the advice, said a senior transition aide.
The aide added that Cheney wants to be helpful to Trump s administration.You can t make this stuff up.
Please just wake me up in four years.
That swamp is now filled with terrifying creatures.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty