CNN s Brian Stelter called out Fox & Friends for doing a disservice to viewers, but his reasoning may leave you scratching your head .
In fact, we re sure it will leave you puzzled.As you probably know, it was reported on Thursday that Trump s approval at the end of his first year in office is on par with Obama s approval rating at the same time during his presidency.Daily Caller reports: Fox & Friends shared this fact on air Friday morning, leading the president to tweet this out:While the Fake News loves to talk about my so-called low approval rating, @foxandfriends just showed that my rating on Dec. 28, 2017, was approximately the same as President Obama on Dec. 28, 2009, which was 47% and this despite massive negative Trump coverage & Russia hoax!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 29, 2017Cue Brian Stelter.
According to Stelter, it is a disservice to make any comparisons of poll numbers that are favorable toward Trump.
It is especially bad if Trump signals that he is happy with what has been reported.
This is a prime example of how Fox & Friends does a disservice to viewers, Stelter tweeted.This is a prime example of how Fox & Friends does a disservice to viewers: https://t.co/ErJBOTAHbo Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) December 29, 2017Let s review the facts.On Dec. 28, 2009, according to a Rasmussen poll, Obama had a 47 percent approval rating.
On Dec. 28, 2017, Trump had a 46 percent approval rating.
Obama s approval rating on December 29, 2009 just one day later was 46 percent, the exact same as Trump s.So Brian Stelter is apparently angry that Fox News reported poll numbers that are factually accurate because they happen to be favorable to the president.
Very unbiased.FOX COULD START TELLING LIES LIKE STELTER AND CNN DO ALL THE TIME:Watch this classic moment where The Weather Channel CEO calls baloney on the Global Warming claims by Stelter: John Coleman, Founder, The Weather Channel, appeared on CNN s Reliable Sources with host Brian Stelter, after writing an open letter to UCLA denying the existence of anthropogenic global warming.
This is a great takedown:Coleman told Stelter that CNN has taken a very strong position on global warming that it is a consensus.
Well there is no consensus in science.
Science isn t a vote.
Science is about facts, and that he was terribly disappointed by his former network, The Weather Channel, because it has bought into [climate change].
But so has all the media.
That s no big surprise.
Coleman notes that he is not a paid shill (as has been claimed) of the Koch Brothers, concluding his letter with a link to Heartland s Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change (NIPCC) website.
Coleman s open letter to UCLA was sent to numerous local television stations in the Los Angeles area, as well as the Los Angeles Times.Coleman produced a special report for KUSI-TV, entitled Global Warming: The Other Side.
The program suggests that Global Warming is a scam and presents what Colemen contends is evidence of a deliberate manipulation of world temperature data by NASA and other groups.