White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has the hardest job in Washington.
He has to, on an almost daily basis, face a firing squad of reporters and try to explain his boss s crazy behavior.
This is especially true when it comes to Donald Trump s infamous Twitter habit.There have been several explanations from White House officials about how reporters and the American public should treat Trump s tweets.
Now that Trump has had a spectacularly nutty weekend on Twitter even by normal Trumpian standards, Spicer had to answer on Monday, point blank, if every crazy tweet is an official statement from the White House.
Spicer said of the tweets: The president is the president of the United States so they are considered official statements by the president of the United States.
To that end, that means that Trump s repeated attacks on London Mayor Sadiq Khan at a time when we should be supporting our closest ally through a crisis are official White House statements.
That means that the infamous covfefe tweet is an official White House statement.
That means that every lie, every personal attack, every crazy or vulgar or downright bizarre thing Trump has tweeted since taking office on January 20th is an official White House statement.
Think about that, and weep for this nation, folks.After that clearly not well thought out response, Spicer went on to say that Trump is in no way worried that he will hurt his Muslim ban case with the Supreme Court with his tweets in that direction, either.
Spicer didn t really address the tweets themselves, only sticking to the White House party line and saying: The court should follow the law.
There s no question that we should prevail.
Of course, if Trump continues to undermine his own case, they won t prevail, and that is sure to result in more attacks on the judiciary via you guessed it Twitter.What a crazy time to be living in.
But what did we expect?
Elect a clown, expect a circus.Watch the video of Spicer s bizarre remarks below:Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images