Jeb Bush was supposed to be the adult among the children in the 2016 Republican presidential primaries.
He was even considered the inevitable nominee by some, particularly due to his fundraising capability.
They sure were wrong, as you will see below.Jeb never really caught fire among voters, but somehow he did among billionaires and other corporate interests looking to pen a 4-year lease on an American president.
Jeb had a total of $155.6 million raised for his presidential bid as of February 1st, 2016.
$31.9 million was by him directly, with nearly $124 million more by PACS.
On the night of the first caucus in the nation, he had spent a total of $24.3 million about $14 million of it in Iowa alone.For all the inevitability his money supposedly ensured, Jeb ended up with a humiliating 2.8 percent portion of the vote during the Iowa Republican Caucus.
This worked out to just over a measly 5,000 votes, which netted him one whole delegate.
Ouch.
Going with just the Iowa money for the ad-buys leading up to the caucus, Jeb ended up paying about $2,800 per vote.Dang, Jeb.
https://t.co/RGVSCgsJaL pic.twitter.com/6tJjkEZMZS Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) February 2, 2016To put this into context, Ted Cruz spent under $250 dollars per vote he received, and Trump spent even less.
The pair claimed both first and second place at the end of the night.
This begs the question, Have we hit the limit of how much money is able to influence an election?
While you can t deny the effect that vast sums of corporate money have in politics, all the money in the nation won t polish everyone to an acceptable level of shine.
Jeb is an embarrassing example of that in the 2016 election cycle.While technically Jeb has a possibility of finding new footing for himself in New Hampshire, the likelihood of a campaign resurrection is low.
Trump is looking far stronger there with a 38 percent lead, as Cruz comes in second at 12 percent.
Jeb is in the rear guard again at a weak 10 percent.
He has the most money to burn, outside of Trump.
Do you think it would help him at all, or is the Bush legacy too much of a curse for him to bear?Featured image from Flickr