If Chris Christie is looking for his testicles Ted Cruz s campaign manager knows exactly where they are.Trump supporters are throwing a temper tantrum because Ted Cruz did not kiss Donald Trump s ass at the RNC Convention on Wednesday night.
And no one threw a bigger hissy fit than New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.
I think it was awful, Christie said about Cruz s speech.
And quite frankly, I think it was something selfish.
Cruz urged Republicans to vote your conscience and refused to flatly endorse Trump for president, drawing a chorus of boos from the audience after he finished speaking.
He signed a pledge, Christie continued.
And it s his job to keep his word.
I think it was too cute and I think you saw at the end of the speech that the crowd was waiting for him to do the right thing and realized that he wasn t going to do it.
Well, Cruz Campaign Manager Jeff Roe fired back during an appearance on the Chris Stigall Show in Philadelphia on Thursday and let s just say that Chris Christie is not going to like hearing the truth.
That guy turned over his political testicles long ago, Roe said of Christie.
So I don t take what he has to say with any meaning.
You know, he embarrassed himself pretty quickly in this.
Indeed, after repeatedly bashing Trump during his short campaign, Christie dropped out of the race and soon became Trump s personal whipping boy.
Trump has humiliated Christie on multiple occasions and has even used him as a personal food delivery boy.
Christie had apparently been hoping that Trump would pick him as the vice-presidential running mate but Trump added insult to injury by choosing Mike Pence instead.Roe went on to deny that Ted Cruz signed any such pledge to endorse Trump by the convention.
Let s just go through history here and time.
Ted didn t sign a pledge.
He didn t sign a pledge to support a nominee by convention.
You know, this speech went further than Ronald Reagan went on Gerald Ford.
It went further than Kennedy did for Carter.
Here s the audio via Buzzfeed.Chris Christie is owned by Donald trump and he knows it.
He probably even has Trump s name stamped on his ass.
Christie spent a lot of his time bashing Trump on the campaign trail last year and even once promised to not endorse Trump after dropping out of the race.But Trump holding on to Chris Christie s balls does explain this look on his face on Super Tuesday.Featured image via YouTube