John Oliver absolutely humiliated Mitch McConnell and the GOP for vowing to block any Supreme Court nominee picked by President Obama.During his show on Sunday, Oliver had wanted to recap the last three months he has missed since going on break, but due to the unexpected death of Justice Antonin Scalia he changed the plan and focused instead on how Republicans vowed to obstruct President Obama from filling Scalia s empty seat on the bench.Indeed, Scalia s body wasn t even cold yet before Republicans declared their willingness to desecrate the Constitution he loved so much, and Oliver ripped them apart for it.
There is now a huge vacancy on the Supreme Court that needs to be filled, or if you listened to the Republicans in the last 24 hours not, Oliver began before showing a clip of Donald Trump telling Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to delay, delay, delay until a new president can fill the seat in 2017.
And Oliver really slammed McConnell since he often obstructs anything President Obama and Democrats try to get done.
Well, that does not bode well because Mitch McConnell is actually pretty good at delaying things for people whether it s legislation, court appointments, or orgasms.
Believe me, if you ever need to delay, delay, delay an orgasm, just picture this face and I guarantee you nothing will happen possibly for the rest of your life.
Oliver then took aim at the Strom Thurmond Rule, an unwritten rule in the Senate that supposedly dictates that presidents can t nominate Supreme Court Justices in the last six months of their final year in office.
Yes, the Strom Thurmond Rule.
Now, I m not surprised that there is one but I thought that it was always about hush money required to keep your secret family a secret or how racist an old person is allowed to become before their age is no longer an excuse.
Oliver then revealed McConnell as a hypocrite for even bringing up this bullshit rule because he has condemned its use in the past, specifically in 2008.
And yes, there s video, which Oliver happily played.
Our Democratic colleagues continually talk about the so-called Thurmond Rule, under which the Senate supposedly stops confirming judges in a presidential election year, McConnell said on the Senate floor.
This seeming obsession with this rule that doesn t exist is an excuse for our colleagues to run out the clock on qualified nominees who are waiting to fill badly needed vacancies.
Yes, it seems the Thurmond Rule is a bit like God: when things are going your way, you don t bring it up a lot, Oliver pointed out.
But as soon as you re in trouble it is all that you talk about.
He also pointed out that the rule is about the last six months of a presidency, which for President Obama doesn t begin until July 20th.
He also pointed out that Republicans are shitting all over Scalia s memory by disobeying Article II Section II of the Constitution which says the president shall appoint judges of the Supreme Court with the advice and consent of the Senate.In other words, Senate Republicans must do their job just as President Obama must do his.But as Oliver noted, leave it to Republicans to honor Scalia s memory by stretching the definition of late term.
Here s the video via YouTube.
Featured image from screen capture