Time and time again, Donald Trump appeared on the Howard Stern Show.
During his interviews, he rated women on a scale from one to ten, told Stern it was okay to call his daughter Ivanka a piece of ass, and bragged about his own sex life.
(I ll wait while you gag.)
These comments have come back to bite Trump in his orange derriere repeatedly throughout his run for the White House.Howard Stern, who happens to be a Democrat, is finally commenting on the impact his past shows have had on this year s election.
He said that having the billionaire on his show to talk about sex and degrade women was no accident, Trump fit the part by nature.
Stern also said that he was not replaying the tapes of the GOP nominee s old interviews because he considers Trump a friend and doing so would be a betrayal.
Donald Trump did the show in an effort to be entertaining and have fun with us, Stern said on his Sirius satellite radio show.
I fully knew what I was doing when I interviewed Trump.
I knew I had a guy who loved to talk about sex.
I had a guy who loved to evaluate women on a scale of 1 to 10.
These are avenues I went down because I knew it would entertain the audience.
Stern said that he was stunned that the tapes from his show hadn t surfaced earlier.
He added that he had asked Trump what the heck he was thinking when he launched his bid for the presidency.
I said, Why are you doing this?
Why would a guy with billions of dollars (run for president)?
Don t you know what they re gonna do to you?
Don t you know they re gonna open up everything?'
The shock jock also weighed in on the Pu**ygate tapes that recently turned up in which Trump bragged that he could sexually assault women because he is a star.
Stern is known for his raunchiness, but even he said that Trump s locker room talk defense was a load of crap.
I have never been in the room when someone has said, Grab them by the pussy,' said Stern.
No one s ever advocated going that step where you get a little bit, Hey I m going to invade someone s space.'
Featured image via Steve Pope/Getty Images and Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images