Now that Republicans are only a month away from officially nominating a racist, sexist, bigot, companies responsible for funding the Republican National Convention are pulling out, and for good reason: bigotry isn t good for business.Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase, Motorola, Ford, Walgreens and UPS (all of whom sponsored the 2012 convention) have announced they will be pulling out of this year s convention.
Although none of the companies have publicly said why they are pulling out, Trump s continuous slamming of the Ford Corporation could explain why the motor company is calling it quits.
Sources close with Wells Fargo say they will continue to sponsor the Democratic National Convention because of a large market outreach in Philadelphia.Coca-Cola has also pulled out of the RNC, citing bad publicity.Reports are surfacing that delegates for the RNC are gearing up to stage a coup against trump, thus brokering the convention and thwarting the billionaire s chances of taking on Hillary Clinton (who would mop the floor with him).Their decision to pull out comes as the RNC is close to reaching their goal of $64 million to fund the convention.
With these companies now retracting their monetary support, the RNC will have to find new ways to make up for the lost funds.
Maybe they could ask their nominee?
He is a billionaire, after all.Several months ago, the New York Times reported Apple, Walmart, and Google are considering pulling out as well, as public pressure mounts against the presumptive nominee.Republican fundraising consultant Carla Eudy told the Times:I have talked to several people at companies who have said, I ve always gone to the convention, I ve always participated at some level, but this year we re not putting it in our budget, we re not going, we re no going to sponsor any of the events going on.Things aren t looking good for the RNC, and yet Reince Priebus insists everything is O.K.
when, in fact, nothing is O.K.
The public is turning against them, big business is turning against them, and members of their own party are turning against them.Cleveland will be a catastrophe, and it s all thanks to Donald J. Trump.
Congratulations, GOP, you built that.
Now, reap what you sow.Featured image via Ron Jenkins/Getty Images