Conservatives have something to say about absolutely everything.
This time, they re throwing a temper tantrum over one of the major messages of the Rio Olympics climate change.
The Opening Ceremonies featured climate change as one of the central themes, so of course conservatives came out in droves to whine and cry about politicizing the Games on social media.The display started with a boy and an endangered Pau-Brasil tree in the center of the stadium.
Then a video of the world played, showing how several major cities would be affected from rising sea levels as the Antarctic ice sheets melt.
It was an important message to highlight, and some were pleased that Rio did it.Those people weren t likely anti-science conservatives, though.
Brazil has its own environmental problems, so of course that crowd thinks Rio is being massively hypocritical in saying anything about climate change.
Here s a hint as to why it s not: One of the purposes of the Opening Ceremonies is to showcase the host nation.
It s entirely possible that the Rio organizing committee wanted to send a message about climate change to their own government, as well as to the rest of the world.The anti-science, climate change is a hoax crowd wasn t going to let that go unnoticed, though.
Everything is evil, liberal propaganda to them if it doesn t fit their narrative, and this part of the Opening Ceremonies definitely didn t fit with what they like to hear (what did they want?
Something flashy and superficial, no doubt).
So they took to Twitter to lash out as only conservatives can when they re faced with facts.Rio Olympics so far, quite boring pushing global warming propaganda.They mention N Pole losing ice but NEVER mention growing ice at S Pole PolitixGal (@PolitixGal) August 6, 2016 #OpeningCeremony at #RioOlympics just went full SJW retard on global warming.
Highlighted slavery but no mention of Emperor who ended it ??
The Mad Monarchist (@MadMonarchist1) August 6, 2016*And now we interrupt the Rio Olympics Opening Ceremony with a global warming awareness segment* Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) August 6, 2016 Oh God, we re getting a tedious bilingual lecture on Global Warming at the #OpeningCeremony of the #RioOlympics Please, stop it.
Tunku Varadarajan (@tunkuv) August 5, 2016Makes sense Brazil would focus on global warming.
Probably distracts from Zika, corrupt government, and ocean of poop.
Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) August 6, 2016 When does Obama storm onstage, grab a mic, and shout IMMA LET YOU FINISH BUT I WAS THE GREATEST OF ALL TIME ON GLOBAL WARMING Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) August 6, 2016So much propaganda at #OpeningCeremony, from Climate Change to Refugees , it s like watching Democrat convention.
https://t.co/OMDRcv1x1Z Nick Short (@PoliticalShort) August 6, 2016 Rio Olympics ratings fail, down 28%.
Spread global warming all u want.
Nobody is watching you morons https://t.co/UsRD52YVEn Kathleen Dang (@Bkvar2) August 6, 2016@SarahNEmerson Rio Olympics opening ceremonies sanctimonious call to arms over global warming from country slashing & burning rainforests righteous axe (@righteousaxe) August 6, 2016Conservatives are so fun to watch when they re in hissy-fit mode, are they not?
They d scream about someone declaring the sky blue if they could.
At least when liberals decry anti-climate science speeches and displays, we have the science on our side with which to do so.
They just want to whine.Featured image by Clive Mason/Getty Images