The stock market lost over 350 points after ABC News erroneously reported that General Flynn was in communication with the Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during Trump s campaign.
It turns out that after the stock market plunge and the feeding frenzy by the leftist media, ABC News got it wrong.
Flynn was actually in contact with the Russian Ambassador during the Trump transition period, which is an entirely different story.
In fact, according to a video that was uncovered by citizen journalist Jack Posobiec, Obama s State Department told reporters during the Trump transition period, that the State Department didn t have any problem with the transition team meeting with any foreign officials (See video below).
According to CNN correspondent Jim Acosta, the Obama regime actually gave the go-ahead for Flynn to have conversations with the Russian Ambassador: On Friday, the White House said that it was the Obama administration that authorized former national security adviser Michael Flynn s contacts with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during President Trump s transition, according to CNN.
Flynn pleaded guilty on Friday to lying to the FBI about his contacts with Kislyak in the month before Trump took office, the first current or former Trump White House official brought down by special counsel Robert Mueller s investigation into Russian election meddling.
Court records indicate that his communications with Kislyak were directed by a Trump transition official, with multiple news outlets reporting that official was Trump s son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner.
They are saying here at the White House that Flynn s conversations with Sergey Kisylak were quote, authorized by the Obama administration, CNN correspondent Jim Acosta said.General Michael Flynn released the statement below: After over 33 years of military service to our country, including nearly five years in combat away from my family, and then my decision to continue to serve the United States, it has been extraordinarily painful to endure these many months of false accusations of treason and other outrageous acts.
Such false accusations are contrary to everything I have ever done and stood for.
But I recognize that the actions I acknowledged in court today were wrong, and, through my faith in God, I am working to set things right.
My guilty plea and agreement to cooperate with the Special Counsel s Office reflect a decision I made in the best interests of my family and of our country.
I accept full responsibility for my actions.
The HillWatch Obama s State Department clarifying to a reporter that they have no problem with General Flynn and the Trump transition team talking to foreign officials:Obama State Dept: We have no problem with General Flynn and the incoming administration contacting foreign officials pic.twitter.com/FwZDaHU8lO Jack Posobiec (@JackPosobiec) December 2, 2017