Conservatives are now committing sexual assault because they are emboldened by Donald Trump.During the campaign, audio surfaced of Trump telling Billy Bush that he likes to grab women by the p*ssy without their consent.
National outrage ensued and women had more proof that Trump only treats women like objects.Well, a Republican lawmaker in Connecticut was arrested on Wednesday for grabbing a woman by the genitals in the Greenwich Town Hall.Christopher von Keyserling has been serving on the Greenwich Representative Town Meeting board since 1985.
But when the 71-year-old crossed paths with a woman in the hallway and engaged in a political debate, he told her I love this new world, I no longer have to be politically correct and then grabbed her between the legs without her consent.
It would be your word against mine and nobody will believe you, Keyserling told the woman in an effort to scare her from reporting the incident to police.So Keyserling must have been shocked when law enforcement arrested him at work and charged him with fourth-degree sexual assault.Keyserling s lawyer, Phil Russell, likely another creepy guy who thinks sexual assault is like flirting, defended his client by claiming the act was nothing more than a playful gesture, even though police have video footage of the crime that corroborated the woman s story.
In almost 30 years of practicing law in this town, I would say Mr. von Keyserling is the one person I would never suspect of having any inappropriate sexual predilections, Russell claimed.
There was a playful gesture, in front of witnesses.
It was too trivial to be considered anything of significance.
To call it a sexual assault is not based in reality.
Let s make this clear.
Keyserling s attorney is literally saying that grabbing a woman by the genitals is not sexual assault, but simply a trivial playful gesture that women should find flattering.This, ladies and gentlemen, is how rape culture continues to be a plague in our country.
And Donald Trump is only making it worse.Featured Image: Ty Wright/Getty Images