Jared Kushner, senior White House adviser and son-in-law of President Donald Trump, was interviewed by special counsel Robert Mueller s office at the beginning of November, according to a source familiar with the process.
As part of an interview that lasted approximately 90 minutes, Kushner was quizzed mainly on his interactions, meetings, and any general contact he had with former national security adviser Michael Flynn, as well as his son, in regards to Flynn s private business dealings with his firm, Flynn Intel Group.
Mr. Kushner has voluntarily cooperated with all relevant inquiries and will continue to do so, Kushner s attorney, Abbe Lowell, said in a statement given to NBC News.The news of Kushner s interview first came to light when grand jury testimony related to Flynn s private business dealings was postponed by prosecutors working for Mueller, the reason for which is still unclear.
This postponement came just a week after Flynn s attorneys alerted President Trump s legal team that information related to the case could no longer be shared between the two parties, nor are they allowed to publicly comment on the matter.
It is not uncommon for defense teams to share information, but the practice is considered unethical once a conflict of interest arises, not that Donald Trump has ever been particularly concerned with matters as trivial as ethics.
The fact that Flynn s attorneys are no longer sharing information with Trump s legal team is in no way proof that Flynn is cooperating with the special counsel, but it is a decent sign that he is working with them, but Trump s team has been expecting this for quite some time.
It is probably a plea deal, Jay Sekulow, a member of President Trump s legal team, told CBS News earlier in the month.
That is the assumption.
And if it is a plea that doesn t necessarily mean it has anything to do with the president.
The Manafort indictment didn t have anything to do with the campaign or Trump.
Michael Flynn served as the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency until he was fired from the position in 2014 by former President Barack Obama, however, he still retained a security clearance, even during Trump s presidential campaign and transition into the White House until Flynn s role was terminated 23 days into Trump s presidency.
Any possible cooperation Flynn has with the prosecution could give Mueller s counsel insight into the Trump campaign s operations and potential dealings with Russia, as well as the first few weeks of his presidency.The FBI is already looking into both Flynn s Trump lobbying and Flynn Intel Group s research work for an unfinished film for which the firm was paid $530,000 by a Turkish businessman.
Employees of Sphere Consulting, who did public relations work on the film, have been turning over documents requested by Mueller s investigators and sitting for voluntary interviews for several months.Featured image via Olivier Douliery Pool/Getty Images