How is a man with ties to a US based terror organization, who according to authorities, was caught planning to deliver a large cache of weapons to a secretive Islamic compound in upstate New York allowed to roam the streets while he awaits a trial that won t take place until November?
This incredible story should make every American wonder how serious we are about fighting homegrown terrorism in the United States A long-time associate of a U.S.-based Islamist terrorist organization, Muslims of America (MOA), was arrested in New York following the discovery of a large cache of weapons that were intended for MOA s Islamberg headquarters in Hancock, NY.Ramadan Abdullah, 64, was arrested in Johnson City, NY, and is no stranger to law enforcement.
Abdullah was previously arrested along with another man in 1977 for attempting to rob a Brooklyn candy store, resulting in a murder.At the time, police searched Abdullah s home and discovered enough material to build 50 bombs.
Even so, the charges against Abdullah were ultimately reduced.Abdullah was arrested on May 31 after attempting to steal four boxes of ammunition from a local Gander Mountain store.
When asked by police about the purpose of the ammunition, Abdullah s answers raised suspicion among police who obtained a search warrant for a storage locker he was renting in the town of Union.During the search, the police discovered the following:8 assault weapons 4 loaded handguns 1 loaded shotgun 2 rifles 64 high-capacity ammunition feeding devices flak jacketsThousands of rounds of ammunition, including .50-caliber armor-piercing roundsPolice searched other residences linked to Abdullah and found a loaded handgun, and more high-capacity ammunition feeding devices and ammunition, including .38-caliber rounds.New York State Police Major Jim Barnes declined to confirm whether Abdullah was associated with terrorist groups or organizations but noted that police believe Abdullah had traveled overseas.
There s no indications there was a plan in place to commit an act of violence.
However, it begs the question, what was he doing with all this and what were his intentions down the road?
Barnes said.Johnson City Police Chief Brent Dodge said, It s just a tremendous blessing to be able to take all these high power weapons and high power ammunition off the streets, and who knows what kind of large scale tragedy that this investigation may have prevented later down the road.
Abdullah is a longtime associate of the U.S.-based Islamist cult Muslims of America.Apparently, a Muslim man with a large cache of weapons set to be delivered to a secretive Islamic compound in upstate New York, who also has a prior criminal record, doesn t pose enough of a security threat in the eyes of the judge, to keep him in jail until he is tried.
The Johnson City man facing 16 charges in a massive weapons bust was granted release on bond Tuesday, as he awaits a Nov. 13 trial in Broome County Court.Ramadan Abdullah, 64, has pleaded not guilty to an indictment charging more than a dozen felonies connected to his arrest in June, which police described as being one of the area s largest gun takedowns in recent memory.Judge Kevin Dooley granted Abdullah s release from jail on bond Tuesday, after defense lawyer Matthew Ryan presented the court with two Binghamton properties that would be put up for collateral.
(MOA), which has been described as a terrorist organization in documents from the FBI and other agencies.
A 2003 file says MOA is linked to terrorists in Pakistan, including Al-Qaeda affiliates.The group s headquarters is a 70-acre compound in Hancock, NY called Islamberg.
It is just a 50-minute drive from where Abdullah was arrested.Dennis Michael Lynch visited Islamberg to see what was really going on in the remote Islamic compound.
Here is a clip from his visit:MOA is led by a radical cleric in Pakistan named Sheikh Mubarak Ali Gilani, who demands a cultish loyalty from his followers in America.
Gilani indoctrinates them to follow a hate-filled extremist ideology that includes violent jihad against perceived enemies of Islam and a belief that they are fulfilling apocalyptic prophecies.The group has claimed to have 22 Islamic villages across the U.S., mostly in rural areas, which have been used as guerilla training compounds.
The group also has a history of committing acts of terrorism and crimes including murder, gun smuggling, narcotics trafficking and money laundering.A 2007 FBI report warns that MOA possesses an infrastructure capable of planning and mounting terrorist campaigns overseas and within the U.S.
It says members of the MOA are encouraged to travel to Pakistan to receive religious and military/terrorist training from [Sheikh] Gilani.
Confidential sources inside MOA say that Ramadan Abdullah has been a significant member of the group since it first formed in the United States in 1980 and helped buy the land that became Islamberg.
Additional research substantiates their information that he is close to MOA members.They say that he is an elder and often visits Islamberg to spend time with older members but does not live inside the commune.
He s also provided firearms instruction for MOA, they report.The sources say that Abdullah s weapons were destined for the group, specifically Islamberg.Via: Clarion Project