Because idiots haven t harmed America enough yet.An anti-vaxxer propaganda film will be screened at the Tribeca Film Festival in April, and you can blame Robert DeNiro for the resulting drop in America s overall IQ and the outbreak of preventable disease.DeNiro is a legendary actor who is apparently willing to torpedo his reputation and career by allowing disgraced British medical doctor Andrew Wakefield to screen his so-called documentary Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe at the festival that had been an annual event since 2002.Wakefield published a paper in 1998 claiming that there is a link between autism and the MMR vaccine.
But as it turns out, Wakefield s study was bogus and has been thoroughly debunked by scientists and medical professionals who then booted Wakefield out of the medical field for professional misconduct.Celebrities such as Jim Carrey, Jenny McCarthy, and Kristin Cavallari have jumped to Wakefield s defense in recent years, which has caused thousands of the fans among others to hold back from vaccinating their children.
And as the anti-science movement continues to grow, the public health becomes more and more at risk.Just last year, a measles epidemic hit the United States for the first time since the disease had been largely eradicated from our shores in 2000, causing the first death of an American by measles in 12 years.Even Fox News own medical expert roundly condemned the anti-vaxxer movement.
Let me be clear on this, I see no debate whatsoever, NYU Langone Medical Center associate professor of medicine Marc Siegel said.
This is the greatest vaccine that has ever been created in the history of vaccines.
You know we stamped out measles in the United States in 2000.
It was incredible because measles is the most contagious virus known to man.
If you had measles there would be a 90 percent chance that I would get it by sitting next to you if I weren t vaccinated.
It s so much more contagious than the flu.
We were talking about Ebola, this is a million times more contagious than Ebola!
But Robert DeNiro wants to have that debate anyway even though it will just give credibility to a moronic movement that deserves none whatsoever.
And the backlash has been so great that DeNiro released a statement on Facebook defending the screening.
Grace and I have a child with autism and we believe it is critical that all of the issues surrounding the causes of autism be openly discussed and examined.
In the 15 years since the Tribeca Film Festival was founded, I have never asked for a film to be screened or gotten involved in the programming.
However this is very personal to me and my family and I want there to be a discussion, which is why we will be screening VAXXED.
I am not personally endorsing the film, nor am I anti-vaccination; I am only providing the opportunity for a conversation around the issue.
No, Mr. DeNiro.
All you are doing is giving an open platform to anti-vaxxers to spread their misinformation and scare more parents into not getting their kids vaccinated.
You are perpetuating their lies and anti-science views and you should be ashamed of yourself for it.
America is already witnessing the return of viruses such as whooping cough, measles, rubella, and many others because a growing number of parents ridiculously believe their kids will get autism if they get them vaccinated even though there is zero scientific evidence linking autism to vaccines.Wakefield s goal with this propaganda film is to assert that the government and scientific community are covering up the link and that vaccines have caused an autism catastrophe in this nation because of it.
There is no true debate in this film and there won t be a real conversation after it is screened.
It ll just be one big echo chamber designed to indoctrinate more believers into the anti-vaxxer movement, which DeNiro looks to be apart of despite his claims otherwise.
And when children die because of his stupidity, their blood will be on his hands.Featured image: Wikimedia