Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson isn t doing too well in the polls, and a recently released interview is not going to help him.
Apparently, Johnson is beginning to feel the pressure and he s taking it out on the press by giving unpredictable interviews unless he s just trying to take a page out of Donald Trump s book by acting erratic.When Johnson was interviewed by the Guardian s Paul Lewis, there were several tense, uncomfortable moments such as when he yelled at Lewis for mentioning his dwindling poll numbers or questioning his tax policy.The interview begins on an awfully uneasy note when Johnson flat-out admits to Lewis that he s stupid while sporting a very creepy smile and it s clear that Lewis doesn t understand if Johnson s being serious or not.
The interview is confusing from the start, as Johnson doesn t seem focused or able to control his mood.The worst part was toward the end of the interview when Lewis corrected Johnson that his support in the polls was now only 6%, not the 10% that Johnson claimed.
Johnson responded by blowing up and yelling: Why are you even interviewing me?
I don t get it.
If I m doing so poorly, is this to preside over a funeral here?
It s not a funeral!
It s a celebration!
Another horrible moment came when Lewis asked Johnson to explain his tax plan.
Lewis brought up the fact that most economists disagree with Johnson s approach to nix federal income tax and enforce nationwide consumption tax which made Johnson unravel right in front of the camera.
Johnson admitted that Congress wouldn t approve of his tax plan, and then fired back with a weird detour about legalized marijuana: Look, I don t want to argue.
I don t want to argue, really.
Look, I came out for the legalization of marijuana, let me just use that as an example.
And I will tell you, I had people in my face for years and years and years talking about how stupid and idiotic it was that we should allow marijuana to be legal.
Lewis was understandably shocked, and he had to ask Johnson why he d bring up marijuana when they d been talking about taxes.
Johnson yelled, It s leadership!
As we ve seen with the Aleppo situation, Johnson just doesn t do very well with interviews and this video should be a clear sign that voting for Johnson won t get America very far, especially when that vote could have been used against Republican nominee Donald Trump.
You can watch this bizarre exchange below:Featured image is a screenshot