Like father, like son.
Eric Trump didn t miss a beat when he was asked whether or not his sister Ivanka could make a good vice president.
Of course, he mused, she s got the looks.Eric was on Fox and Friends doing a fluff piece about his father when the discussion of vice presidential picks came up.
Contrary to much of the information leaking out of the Trump campaign, the younger Trump was adament that people were begging his dad for the chance to be his vice president.
Eric didn t mention a single actual name, which makes sense because it was a lie.According to many people the New York Times spoke to, the answer would be an emphatic no: Never, said Chris Schrimpf, a spokesman for Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio.
No chance.
Hahahahahahahahaha, wrote Sally Bradshaw, a senior adviser to Jeb Bush, when asked if he would consider it.
Scott Walker has a visceral negative reaction to Trump s character, said Ed Goeas, a longtime adviser to the Wisconsin governor.Or, as Senator Lindsey Graham put it, That s like buying a ticket on the Titanic.
Likewise, many of Trump s own top choices have since publicly rejected the offer including Iowa Senator Joni Ernst and Tennessee Senator Bob Corker.So Fox and Friends were left floating hypotheticals with Eric.
They brought up Ivanka, whose only qualification appears to be that she briefly made a business out of selling scarves that were dangerously flammable.
Eric was smitten with the idea in his own creepy way.
I agree, she s got the beautiful looks.
She s got she s smart.
She s smart, smart, smart, she s certainly got my vote.
She s got the beautiful looks?It appears Eric has taken after his dad in routinely objectifying and sexualizing the women in the Trump family.
Donald Trump has spoken at length about the attractiveness of both of his daughters, including musing about the eventual size of daughter Tiffany s breasts while she was still an infant.
For Ivanka he s said (joked?)
several times that she is so attractive that he would be dating her if she weren t his own offspring.
Yeah, she s really something, and what a beauty, that one.
If I weren t happily married and, ya know, her father It s unclear whether Trump actually fantasizes about sleeping with his own daughter or if his own worldview is merely so warped by misogyny and sexist gender ideals that his only pride for a woman like Ivanka is that she grew up to be attractive.
Neither option should instill confidence in this man.
The fact that his son is showing the same tendency to reduce his sister to a sex object is equally troubling.And these are the people who are to represent the family values crowd.
Good grief.Featured image via Fox News