A Maricopa Country judge has finally stood up to the vile, crooked, racist Sheriff Joe Arpaio and charged him along with three of his top cronies with being in contempt.
His crime?
He hasn t stopped his illegal and unconstitutional racial profiling of Hispanics.Thanks to that darn liberal activist group the ACLU, Arpaio will be in hot water if he continues to practice his clearly racist policies.Judge G. Murray Snow, after a lengthy yearlong investigation after the ruling in Ortega Melendres v. Arpaio, concluded that Arpaio was in contempt on one charge while Chief Deputy Jerry Sheridan was found in contempt on two counts, and retired Chief Brian Sands and Lt. Joe Sousa each were found in contempt of one.In the 162-page ruling, Judge Snow wrote:In short, the Court finds that the Defendants have engaged in multiple acts of misconduct, dishonesty, and bad faith with respect to the Plaintiff class and the protection of its rights.The three contempt charges stem from three requests from Judge Snow that Arpaio and his band of thugs refused to comply with:According to ArizonaCentral:Snow found that deputies had detained and turned over to federal authorities at least 157 individuals who had not committed state crimes, in violation of his order.Snow said both Arpaio and Sheridan made numerous misstatements under oath.Not only did Sheriff Joe and his deputies knowingly fail to comply with a court ruling, they openly flaunted it and thought that they were above the law.Now the Department of Justice is getting involved.
After slapping down Sheriff Joe last year over his racial profiling, the DOJ will work closely with Snow to implement proper sanctions.
Should Snow feel so inclined, he may refer the case to criminal contempt.
Perhaps jail time might await the Sheriff?
One can only hope.But while we wait for this monstrosity to be put in prison, the people of Arizona are faced with another option: voting him out of office.
This is an election year, and Sheriff Joe is running.
Every election his support shrinks.
In 2000, Arpaio won with 66 percent of the vote.
In 2012, he garnered only 51 percent.With Trump on the rise as the GOP s newest face, Hispanic voter registration has spiked all across the southwest, including Arizona something that should scare Arpaio and his cronies to their core.
This is what happens when you rule with fear instead of the common good.Now it s 2016, and this man s reign of terror and shame must come to an end.
Let the courts deal with him in court, and let s have the voters throw the bum out of office once and for all.Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images