A Trump supporter proclaimed that there s no such thing as facts before getting humiliated by facts.During an appearance on NPR s The Diane Rehm Show, Trump mouthpiece Scottie Nell Hughes attacked facts and characterized them as lies the media, scientists, and liberals tell.
Well, I think it s also an idea of an opinion, Hughes said in response to The Atlantic s James Fallows remark that Donald trump is peddling lies to gullible people.
And that s on one hand I hear half the media saying that these are lies, but on the other half there are many people that go, no, it s true.
And so one thing that has been interesting this entire campaign season to watch is that people that say facts are facts, they re not really facts.
Everybody has a way, it s kind of like looking at ratings or looking at a glass of half-full water.
Everybody has a way of interpreting them to be the truth or not true.
Hughes went on to say that there s no such thing facts and then turned around and said that only conservatives have facts to back up their claims.
There s no such thing, unfortunately, anymore of facts.
And so Mr. Trump s tweet amongst a certain crowd, a large a large part of the population, are truth.
When he says that millions of people illegally voted, he has some in his amongst him and his supporters, and people believe they have facts to back that up.
Those that do not like Mr. Trump, they say that those are lies, and there s no facts to back it up.
Hughes comments did not sit well with Politico correspondant Glenn Thrush, who proceeded to school her.
First I ve got to pick my jaw up off the floor here, he began.
There are no objective facts?
I mean, that is that is an absolutely outrageous assertion.
Of course there are facts.
There is no widespread proof that three million people voted illegally.
It s been checked over and over again.
We had a Pew study that took place over 15 years that showed people had more likelihood of being struck by lightning than voting illegally in an election.
Facts are facts.
I m sorry you don t like the facts.
Indeed, while conservatives are using edited videos and things they heard on social media as proof of their claims, fact-checking organization Politifact did their homework and found exactly where Donald Trump got his claim that three million people voted illegally.
It turns out he got it from conspiracy theorist Alex Jone s InfoWars, which got their numbers from some guy who claimed to be affiliated with VoteFraud.org.
But there is no report from that organization and the guy refused to provide evidence to support his dubious claim, which was rated false by Politifact.So Hughes was talking out of her ass when she attacked facts.
Thrush, on the other hand, was absolutely right.
A comprehensive study of voter fraud found only 31 cases out of 1 billion votes cast from 2000 to 2014.
Donald Trump is wrong.
Conservatives are wrong.
And Scottie Nell Hughes should be ashamed of herself.Featured Image: YouTube