After former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton unloaded on Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump in a major foreign policy speech on Thursday, the candidate responded not with substance or facts, but with a petulant tirade focused on how Clinton looks and sounds.
That was a phony speech, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said at a rally in San Jose, Calif. That was a Donald Trump hit job.
His response to Mrs. Clinton s speech seemed to focus more on style than substance.
She does not look presidential, he said.
My temperament is so much tougher and so much better than her temperament.
He crowned the Democratic front-runner with the insulting title he has long reserved for former rival Sen. Ted Cruz, whom he called Lyin Ted.
Lying, crooked Hillary, he said at the rally.
She made up my foreign policy.
In her speech, which many observers described as the best she has delivered in the campaign, Clinton picked apart Trump s extreme rhetoric point-by-point.
She plainly explained that like many across our country and around the world, I believe the person the Republicans have nominated for President cannot do the job.
She described his ideas as bizarre rants, personal feuds, and outright lies, and said he is not someone who should ever have the nuclear codes because it s not hard to imagine Donald Trump leading us into a war just because somebody got under his very thin skin.
Clinton went on to describe President Obama s decision to make the call to kill Osama bin Laden as as crisp and courageous a display of leadership as I ve ever seen and contrasted that with Donald Trump sitting in the Situation Room, making life-or-death decisions on behalf of the United States.
She concluded, making Donald Trump our commander-in-chief would be a historic mistake.
Trump didn t respond to Clinton s speech on substance, nor did he address the points she made about the style of his decision making.
Instead he went after how she looks and speaks.
Thin skin, indeed.Featured image via YouTube