Donald Trump picked a fight with the wrong woman.Even though the Republican nominee claims to not watch Morning Joe on MSNBC, it s pretty clear that he does based on the Twitter tantrums he has been throwing in response to Mika Brzezinski.Brzezinksi has been very critical of Trump recently and her criticism continued on Monday after former physician Howard Dean called Trump a classic narcissist.Unlike Trump and his team, who have spewed unfounded claims about Hillary Clinton s health, Brzezinski called for mental health professionals to evaluate him because he sure seems to be exhibiting tell-tale signs of being a psychopath, a term former Obama campaign manager David Plouffe used on Sunday during an interview with Chuck Todd.
It s time to hear from somebody in the mental health community, to look at this person who has been on television for months and to give us a sense of what we have going on here, Brzezinski said.
And, I m sorry, let s just not let s stop pretending we re dealing with someone who we can completely understand.
When you see someone who you think has problems, you know it.
And there s not anybody at this table who doesn t think he has some sort of problem.
Let s ask the questions.
Let s do this at this point.
Let s set up someone and ask the questions.
Does anyone think that s completely outlandish and only because I have some sort of weird, snarky slant to it and I want to be smart?
I think there s an issue there.
Joe Scarborough pointed out that it might be more accurate to call Trump a sociopath, but said a psychiatrist cannot come on and diagnose somebody.
Here s the video via Twitter.Plouffe brands Trump as a psychopath The #morningjoe panel reacts.
https://t.co/wbCipJ4P5z Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) August 29, 2016But Trump has already drawn some mental health professionals to publicly weigh in with their own evaluations, most notably Dr. Drew Pinsky and Fox News pundit Charles Krauthammer.On CNN, Pinsky said: The question, though, is, are some of the reckless qualities that everyone is getting so disturbed about on the campaign going to be translated into office should he get elected?
That s a pretty hard thing to predict.
I don t know if this is just somebody playing politics, or is this somebody who really can t contain their impulses?
When I hear people that are impulsive with their speech, I worry about hypomania and bipolar types of conditions.
And in a column earlier this month, Krauthammer, who is a board-certified psychiatrist, wrote that Trump s hypersensitivity and unedited, untempered Pavlovian responses are, shall we say, unusual in both ferocity and predictability.
This is beyond narcissism.
I used to think Trump was an 11-year-old, an undeveloped schoolyard bully.
I was off by about 10 years.
His needs are more primitive, an infantile hunger for approval and praise, a craving that can never be satisfied.
He lives in a cocoon of solipsism where the world outside himself has value indeed exists only insofar as it sustains and inflates him.
Featured Image: Screenshot