Daryush Valizadeh is a sexist and misogynist who is lobbying to make rape legal on private property, and he is a fan of Donald Trump.Trump s past statements and behavior towards women has emboldened men who think women are inferior and can do with them as they please.And Valizadeh wrote a manifesto celebrating Trump s win as the moment legal rape activists have been waiting for to make their goal a reality.I m in a state of exuberance that we now have a President who rates women on a 1-10 scale in the same way that we do and evaluates women by their appearance and feminine attitude.
We may have to institute a new feature called Would Trump bang?
to signify the importance of feminine beauty ideals that cultivate effort and class above sloth and vulgarity.
Simply look at his wife and the beautiful women he has surrounded himself with to remind yourself of what men everywhere prefer, and not the beauty at every size sewage that has been pushed down our throats by gender studies professors and corporations trying to market their product to feminist fatsoes.
The President of the United States does not see the value in fat women who don t take care of themselves, and neither should you.
We now have a President who will not encourage anti-male propaganda, rape culture, and female victimhood.
While I do have minor concerns on the influence of his feminist-minded daughter, Ivanka, Trump will not continue the attack on men that has been institutionalized since the sexual revolution and accelerated during the eight years of Obama.
Because our current cultural dystopia is the result of intense long-term manipulation, it is more than enough for Trump to simply not touch the gender issue to allow the culture to return to a more patriarchal order.
Stop feeding the rot and it will die off, allowing biology to naturally reassert itself.We ve experienced so many changes in the past decade that we haven t had a chance to understand what s going on and adapt.
Instead, we ve been reacting from one blow to the next, whether it s the loss of our jobs through witch hunts or the rape culture horror that has turned a banal consensual hookup into possible incarceration.
Trump s victory gives us room to begin pushing back against the fictions that have put men in harm s way.This jackass went on to brag that men like him will be able to say what they want to do what they want to women and get away it whether Trump changes the laws or not, suggesting that men can go right ahead and rape all the women they want without consequence.This is our moment.
The door is opening for a renaissance of masculinity where men can take pride in being men, and the best part of it is that we don t need to wait for Trump to do anything.
His victory is more than enough for us to apply our own individual strength in seizing the bull s horns where we can come out of the politically incorrect closet and assert our beliefs and behaviors.
It would be icing on the cake if Trump rolled back anti-masculine laws and policies, but it s not required, because the power to change ourselves and our country is within our hands.This creepy asshole literally believes Donald Trump s election victory is one step closer toward making it legal for men to rape women.Across the country, Trump supporters have already committed over 300 hate crimes, including crimes against women such as assault.If Valizadeh has his way, we are about to see sexual assault crimes skyrocket, which means America just became an even more dangerous place for women because of Trump s victory.Featured Image: WomanSurvival.com