While most of America can see right through to the flaws of Donald Trump s policies, it s always a special moment when someone from Fox News recognizes it.Earlier today, Fox host Shep Smith tore Trump s latest executive order apart, noting that it could actually ruin America s economy instead of help it.
Smith, who has been a vocal critic on Trump before, expertly pointed out that Trump s announcement of a Buy American and Hire American order will actually cause the cost of goods in America to skyrocket.Trump s new plan will review the H-1B visa program for foreign workers; a program that many massive companies use.
Pointing out that the program serves a purpose, Smith explained: Tech giants including Amazon, Apple, Google, and others all hire thousands and thousand of using it.
Even automakers, including Ford and GM, use this program to find engineers.
Executives for those companies argue they can t always find enough American workers with the skills needed for the specific jobs.
They also claim the program encourages students to stay in the United States after school.
Then, Smith went after Trump by pointing out that even the POTUS himself doesn t buy or hire American when it comes to his own businesses: But the White House says the companies take advantage of those visas, that they bring in large numbers of foreign workers pay them less, and drive down wages.
President Trump himself has gone back and forth over this program.
And as for the president s push to buy American, opponents point out the obvious, that some of the president s own products were made from workers from about a dozen other companies.
And besides the price of everything at your Walmart and your local store and everywhere else goes way up for you.
Smith is exactly right and brilliant for exposing Trump s own hypocrisy, and for explaining to conservatives that the man they elected is not going to help America like they thought he would.You can watch Smith take down Trump below:Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images