21st Century Wire says The FBI released 27 never before seen images chronicling the destructive Pentagon attack on 9/11.
While the FBI move appears to be an effort to be more transparent, they ve refueled old conspiracy suspicions hidden in plain sight.
COVER-UP?
Photo Illustration 21WIRE s Shawn Helton To this day, the attacks on September 11th, 2001, have remained some of the most enigmatic crimes of the century.There has been an endless dispute over the how of 9/11 and the who, as well as the various methods used to carry out the atrocities of that day.
There s an even heavier debate over what brought down WTC Building 7 and since then, other 9/11 rabbit holes have also challenged the nature of the planes said to be involved in both New York and Washington DC.Whatever your thoughts are concerning planes or other theories on 9/11 it s still worth noting that even the mainstream media admitted at the time that there was, no evidence of a plane at all, following the destruction of a portion of the Pentagon s western side.Watch as Jamie McIntyre, a former Senior Pentagon correspondent for CNN, suggests the lack of evidence supporting the official story surrounding American Airlines flight 77 .Here s one telling image released by the FBI that doesn t appear to support the official story of American Airlines flight 77 s fuselage crashing into the Western side of the Pentagon.
Its as if logic and reason were also casualties on 9/11 where is the rest of the plane and why is the crater so small?
PENTAGON TALES What really happened here?
(Image Source: vault.fbi.gov)In another telling image, part of the damage seen at the Pentagon on 9/11 looks errily reminiscent to that of the Oklahoma City bombing INTERIOR EXPLOSION?
Why does this look similar to the damage at OKC IN 1995?
(Image Source: abcnews)The FBI releases also contained images of twisted plane parts that curiously lacked evidence of fire damage given the devastating crime scene, it s hard to see how that would be possible.See the FBI photos here for yourself and ask yourself one single question: where is the Boeing passenger airliner?
.
More from Free Thought Project below BREAKING: The FBI Just Released Never Before Seen Photos of 9/11 Pentagon WreckageClaire Bernish Free Thought ProjectAfter surreptitiously releasing to the public one week ago, the FBI unceremoniously announced today the unprecedented release of never-before-seen images from the attacks of September 11, 2001, and some of the pictures evoke still more questions.Others could be seen as putting to rest a popular theory American Airlines Flight 77 never actually smashed into the Pentagon.
The FBI Vault release is minute in size, to say the least with a mere 27 images comprising the file and does not include video, audio, nor anything other than photos.But, given the stony silence from the U.S. government toward families of victims of the attacks, even the meager disclosure is a welcome morsel of information with the potential to provide answers.Indeed, in the very first image, labeled plainly, 9-11 Pentagon Debris 1, a single piece of wreckage sits isolated on a parcel of lawn bearing the American Airlines logo and marked with letters and numbers.More from Free Thought Project here SEE ALSO: What to Expect From BBC Panorama and Guardian s Whitewash of UK Gov t Funding Terrorists in SyriaSEE ALSO: The Guardian Exposed Conning Public into Financing Independent Journalism SEE ALSO: White Helmets & Local Councils Is the UK FCO Financing Terrorism in Syria with Taxpayer Funds?SEE ALSO: A Guide to Mainstream Media Fake News War PropagandaSUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV