Donald Trump still refuses to release his tax returns.
So when Fox blowhard Eric Bolling tried to defend him for it he was utterly laid to waste by his own colleague.As usual, the panel of Fox hosts were busy trashing Hillary Clinton and attacking her over her recently released tax returns.
But Bolling claimed that he cares more about the transcripts of Hillary Clinton s speeches to Goldman Sachs, remarking that he really wants to see them.Julie Roginsky then chimed in suggesting a trade in which Trump would release his tax returns in exchange for the release of the speech transcripts which drew approval from the panel.
But Roginsky pointed out that she doesn t think Trump will do it because the New York Times reports that his tax returns will show that Trump pays zero percent in taxes while Clinton paid 43.2 percent in federal, state, and local taxes in 2015.In short, his tax returns would be embarrassing, and would spark outrage as it would be clear that Trump doesn t pay taxes while Hillary Clinton does.Roginsky s colleagues immediately jumped to Trump s defense by claiming that he can t release his taxes because he is being audited, but Roginsky didn t let that excuse fly.
She pointed out that Trump is only being audited for a couple years of his taxes and said it doesn t stop him from releasing other years.
In fact, an audit doesn t prevent releasing any tax returns at all even if they are under audit.Bolling, of course, continued making excuses for Trump and claimed that he can t release any of his taxes because the current audit could somehow affect his past returns.
And that drew a sharp rebuke from Roginsky in which she called him out for being a total hypocrite.
You are are coming up with Kool-Aid excuses!
If this was Hillary Clinton, you d be the first to demand that she release those taxes.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, if Hillary refused to release her tax returns, Fox would immediately begin demanding that they be released and it would be a never ending topic from now till Election Day.
But because Trump is the Republican nominee, Fox News has no problem defending him for refusing to release his own.
That is except Julie Roginsky.
She not only would like Trump to release them, she s tired of the lame excuses pushed by Trump apologists like Bolling.Featured image via screen capture