There are two things anyone with familiarity with Fox News host Sean Hannity learns quickly: He is one of the most unlikable people working in television and he is really, really sensitive about it.On Wednesday, Hannity managed to exemplify both of those traits when he learned that Politico reporter Marc Caputo quoted a Marco Rubio staffer as calling Hannity a f*cking a**hole.
Rather than take the high road or, better yet, analyze his own actions to figure out why people despise him, Hannity did what comes naturally to him: He threw a very public, very embarrassing temper tantrum.Here s what Caputo said, quoted from an anonymous Rubio staffer, that set Hannity off: "But Marco gives Donald a taste of his own medicine and Hannity gets all offended.
He's a pussy and a sellout."
Boy, they're angry 2/2 Marc Caputo (@MarcACaputo) March 2, 2016Crass?
Sure.
Accurate?
Definitely.
It s no secret that Hannity has been a big fan of Donald Trump s since the very beginning.
He once bragged that he encouraged Trump to get into the presidential race in 2012.
He s been a major cheerleader ever since.
In February, Trump was facing serious accusations about courting white supremacists so he booked a 30 minute softball interview with his friend Hannity and the issue never even came up.
Instead, the two shared some laughs, complimented each other, and generally behaved as if it was a Trump 2016 infomercial paid for by Fox News.So when it came to defending his reputation against this charge of favoritism, Hannity simply ignored his indefensible actions and lashed out.
Hilariously, Hannity didn t blame Rubio s campaign staffer so much as the reporter who relayed the message.
On Twitter, the conservative pundit went a bit nuts.He tried I know you are, but what am I?
Glad Politico let's u use such big words that accurately describes yourself asshole.
And u r "impartial" to politics https://t.co/bCn2UL8wc0 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) March 2, 2016He tried blaming it on liberals.Typical lib media, u missed my point.
I always liked the REAL @marcorubio NOT THE GUY I SAW LAST NIGHT!
https://t.co/BETSWuiZ49 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) March 2, 2016Before finally landing on Do you know who I am?!
Would love to play but I have 14 million radio listeners depending on me.
Have fun with your 20,000 Twitter follows https://t.co/BETSWuiZ49 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) March 2, 2016Sadly, this is not the first time Hannity has had a public meltdown after being stung by the fact that people don t like him.
In 2014, Mediaite ran a survey asking several dozen cable news hosts from Fox News, CNN, and MSNBC what they felt about their fellow pundits.
Hannity was overwhelmingly voted worst (even by his own co-workers).
He didn t take it well.
@TheMattWilstein Lets do the BEST OF MEDIAITE CONCHA.
ALL THE REST OF U MEDIAMATTERS WANNABEES SUCK IMHO .
#badge of honor Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) December 22, 2014And just like his latest tantrum, Hannity blamed the messenger.
Mediaite didn t decide who the best of Fox News was, Fox News hosts did and they all said they didn t like Hannity.
Likewise, Politico s Caputo didn t call Hannity a f*cking a**hole , Rubio s campaign did.Hannity may have 14 million radio listeners from the bitter clingin proud clingers set, but he gets absolutely no respect from his fellow media personalities.
Even the peers at his own network see through his hack journalism and abrasive personality.
And they have a right to be mad.
Every time Sean Hannity runs a doe-eyed fluff piece on Trump, it reminds us that Fox News is shamelessly enabling Trump s rise to power.
And when you are the guy with 14 million fans who is cheerleading a bigot like Trump, it makes you a f*cking a**hole.Featured image via Fox News screengrab