The conservative media, quite literally having nothing better to do, decided rock bottom wasn t deep enough and dug a little deeper.
What they found was that President Obama will be moving to a house that s vaguely near an Islamic Center.
Surely this changes everything!With Obama s time in office coming to a close, the family announced that they would be staying in Washington D.C. after they left the White House so that Sasha and Malia could finish school there.
The house they chose is one befitting a former president and was once owned by a senior adviser to Bill Clinton.The move will put the Obamas in one of Washington s wealthiest ZIP codes, in a secluded precinct backing up to Rock Creek Park that is home to diplomats and a focal point of the capital s cocktail-party circuit.
The home itself is luxurious; photographs posted by Washington Fine Properties, which listed it when it sold in 2014, show spacious rooms with hardwood floors, white marble countertops, his-and-her master bathrooms and a terrace with formal gardens.Conservatives, naturally, promptly lost their minds.
The Obamas, they reasoned, should not be allowed to live in a nice house.
I ll leave the reasons why this particular First Family can t live in a nice house or, say, eat in a fancy restaurant up to your imagination.But the crack team of conservative airheads over at Tucker Carlson s The Daily Caller took another approach: A quick Google Maps search found that the Obamas new home is wait for it sort of near an Islamic Center.Here s how the Daily Caller s Eric Owens framed it:The mammoth, multi-million-dollar mansion where President Barack Obama and his family will reportedly live after the first family exits the White House is located 1,096 feet from the Islamic Center of Washington one of the largest mosques in the Western Hemisphere.What follows is hundreds of words devoted to painfully describing every detail about the Islamic Center and its function.
(Hint: Muslims do Islam in there, if you can believe it.)
Hilariously, Owens also notes that the embassy of Oman and the former embassy of Iran are close to Obama s new mansion.
This presumably means something.It s hard to fathom that we are approaching President Obama s final months in office and the right-wing movement has yet to let the Obama is a secret Muslim conspiracy go.
A quick scroll through The Daily Caller s comment section cesspool finds that a strong majority of readers truly believe this to be the case.If you re curious as to why places like The Daily Caller are obsessing over Obama s proximity to Islamic Centers and the number of bathrooms in his new house, it just might have to do with the fact that President Obama is riding a wave of popularity.
Having used his second term to nail one legacy affirming accomplishment after another, Obama currently enjoys a favorability rating that is higher than Reagan s and a strong wind at his back as he closes out a presidency that people like Tucker Carlson and Eric Owens insisted would be a country-destroying disaster.But let s ignore all that because a thousand feet away from Obama s new house is an Islamic Center.
Good grief.Featured image via The Wire