Donald Trump went on quite a tweetstorm this morning, lashing out former Director of the FBI James Comey and the agency.
Trump is losing his sh*t after his former national security adviser flipped in the investigation into any possible collusion between his campaign and Russia.
On his former FBI Director, Trump called him a liar, writing, I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn.
Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!
Then he claimed his FBI is the worst in History!
and said it was in tatters.
After years of Comey, with the phony and dishonest Clinton investigation (and more), running the FBI, its reputation is in Tatters worst in History!
he wrote.
But fear not, we will bring it back to greatness.
After years of Comey, with the phony and dishonest Clinton investigation (and more), running the FBI, its reputation is in Tatters worst in History!
But fear not, we will bring it back to greatness.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2017That tweet prompted a statement from the President of the FBI Agents Association in a series of tweets.
Every day, FBI Special Agents put their lives on the line to protect the American public from national security and criminal threats, FBIAA President Thomas O Connor wrote.
Agents perform these duties with unwavering integrity and professionalism and a focus on complying with the law and the Constitution.
This is why the FBI continues to be the premier law enforcement agency in the world, he continued.
FBI Agents are dedicated to their mission; suggesting otherwise is simply false.
James Comey also weighed in.
I want the American people to know this truth: The FBI is honest.
The FBI is strong.
And the FBI is, and always will be, independent.
Me (June 8, 2017) pic.twitter.com/OZ1ZiBrMNL James Comey (@Comey) December 3, 2017Former President Barack Obama s Attorney General Eric Holder also took a shot at Trump s tweets.
Nope.
Not letting this go.
The FBI s reputation is not in tatters, Holder tweeted.
It s composed of the same dedicated men and women who have always worked there and who do a great, apolitical job.
You ll find integrity and honesty at FBI headquarters and not at 1600 Penn Ave right now.
Nope.
Not letting this go.
The FBI s reputation is not in tatters .
It s composed of the same dedicated men and women who have always worked there and who do a great, apolitical job.
You ll find integrity and honesty at FBI headquarters and not at 1600 Penn Ave right now Eric Holder (@EricHolder) December 3, 2017What the FBI agents are saying is that Donald Trump is fake news.Photo by Tom Pennington/Getty Images.