Donald Trump threw an early morning temper tantrum on Twitter again.Last week, Trump let his daughter Ivanka take over for him at the G-20, giving her his seat at the conference table.National outrage ensued because Ivanka is not an elected official, nor does she have any political or diplomatic experience.
The incident also served as a reminder of the nepotism practiced in Trump s White House.On Monday morning, Trump lashed out and actually attacked Hillary Clinton s daughter Chelsea in defense of his irresponsible decision to let Ivanka take his place.When I left Conference Room for short meetings with Japan and other countries, I asked Ivanka to hold seat.
Very standard.
Angela M agrees!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2017If Chelsea Clinton were asked to hold the seat for her mother,as her mother gave our country away, the Fake News would say CHELSEA FOR PRES!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 10, 2017Someone should ask German Chancellor Angela Merkel about this, because it s likely she ll contradict Trump s claim.Of course, Bill Clinton never let Chelsea take his seat at the G-20, and President Obama certainly never let his daughter Malia take his seat at the G-20 either.Both would have been criticized for it and Hillary would have been criticized for it as well, especially by conservatives, who would have thrown the mother of all hissy fits.In fact, I don t think a president has ever let their kids take over for them in such way, so despite what Trump claims, it is NOT very standard.
Trump s effort to defend his bad decisions by bringing up what is very much now a hypothetical is pathetic.
We ll never know if Hillary would have done such a thing because she isn t president.
But Trump is, and that means his behavior is open for criticism.Besides, Chelsea Clinton herself responded to Trump and made it clear that her parents would never have considered doing what Trump did.Good morning Mr. President.
It would never have occurred to my mother or my father to ask me.
Were you giving our country away?
Hoping not.
https://t.co/4ODjWZUp0c Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) July 10, 2017And Twitter users responded by blasting Trump to smithereens.HRC praised Trump s kids at a debate.
Now Trump tries to use Chelsea as a political human shield.
What a classless comment.
Adam Best (@adamcbest) July 10, 2017Let s get real.
If Chelsea sat in POTUS HRC s seat for five minutes everybody from Sean Hannity to Paul Ryan would be screaming impeachment.
Adam Best (@adamcbest) July 10, 2017If Chelsea Clinton had been asked to hold the seat for her mother , Republicans would have been outraged Edward Hardy (@EdwardTHardy) July 10, 2017Nepotism and misogyny at the same time.
Shameful.
Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) July 10, 2017Is that what you were busy doing?
Giving the country away?
Jemaine Clement (@AJemaineClement) July 10, 2017No, your side would be calling for @HillaryClinton s impeachment.
https://t.co/DT9Zns7iew Evan O Connell (@evanoconnell) July 10, 2017Chelsea also has a PhD in international relations.
So .. she s sort of more qualified, yo Andrea Kuszewski (@AndreaKuszewski) July 10, 2017Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images