One of the things that happens when one runs for president is the fact that the United States Secret Service and other intelligence and security agencies begin to protect that person and his or her family.
If said family is that of the elected President or Vice-President, that protection becomes the expense of the American taxpayers no matter where those people are.
In the case of Donald Trump becoming president-elect, that means that New York City is now paying astronomical amounts of money to protect the Trump family.
This is especially expensive, seeing as how the Trumps, prior to The Donald running for and eventually winning the presidential election, lived in a golden glass tower in the middle of New York City s Fifth Avenue, which is one of the busiest streets in the world.Well, one person is sick of Trump being able to milk the taxpayers of New York City a city that in no way voted for him for huge amounts of money and even more inconvenience to protect him and his family and their staff in the Fifth Avenue version of a palace in America.
New York City Police Department Deputy Commissioner of Intelligence, John Miller, is sick of the Trumps bleeding a city that can t stand the guy and his family and didn t want them in the White House to begin with, and he doesn t want the people of New York City footing the bill on this one.
Miller says of the chaos and money Trump is causing the city: We went down to Washington and we described those costs to our congressional delegation from New York.
They got it immediately.
But Congress has failed to pass a budget again.
And to get funding for this, they had a continuing resolution.
We asked them to add $35 million to reimburse New York City for [Trump s security].
They came up with a figure of $7 million, which covers a piece of the overtime but not the rest of it.
Miller continued on, saying that New York City is obviously disappointed, with the idea of protecting Trump via taxpayer dollars in a city that clearly despises the man.
Miller continued: We really won t be able to gauge the long-term costs, John, until we know: Is he coming home every weekend?
Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images