Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders knows that most Trump supporters voted out of fear and anger rather than actual policy or facts and he found a way to perfectly expose this truth on national television for all to see.
During an MSNBC town hall in Kenosha, Wisconsin (aka Trump Country ), Sanders confronted Trump voter Gail Sparks about her inaccurate views on what Trump actually stood for.Sparks admitted that she hadn t voted in 2012, but got herself to the polls for Trump this year because she wanted change.
She connected with his fear mongering about undocumented immigrants she even called them those people and accused them of stealing jobs and being the reason she made less money.
But when Sparks brought up the social safety net, Sanders couldn t take it anymore and had to stop her in her tracks to give her the facts.
Sparks said: Who s paying for this?
Who s paying for the Medicaid?
Who s paying for the Social Security?
Who s paying for the Medicare?
Now, have any of you seen down on the streets that it seems as though we have become the silent minority and not the majority?
MSNBC host Chris Hayes asked Sparks who she was talking about and Sparks responded, The people who need the Medicare, the people who need the Social Security, who need the help with the education.
That s when Sanders respectfully decided to prove to her that she d made the wrong choice when she voted.
Sanders said: Good point.
Let s see if we can go forward on this.
I am assuming that you believe, correct me if I m wrong, that we should not cut Social Security or Medicare or Medicaid.
Is that correct or not?
Sanders let Sparks agree that the social safety net shouldn t be cut before dropping an epic truth bomb.
He continued: Do you know who is now working very hard to try to do that?
Republicans in Congress have a plan under the guise of saving Medicare and saving Social Security, making devastating cuts.
That s what the Republicans are now trying to do.
As Sanders went on, a look of shock, disappointment and embarrassment washed across Sparks face but Sanders didn t stop: The other point that you made is, who is going to pay for this stuff?
And that is a very fair point.
What all of us should know is that over the last 25 years, there has been a massive transfer of wealth in this country from you to the top one-tenth of one percent.
In other words, the middle class has shrunk and trillions of dollars have gone to the top one-tenth of one percent.
Do you think it s inappropriate to start asking those people to pay their fair share of taxes so we can adequately fund Medicaid and make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
Is that an unfair thing to ask?
Sparks took a second to digest what Sanders was saying and replied, I don t think it s an unfair thing to ask.
They got rich off of us, so it s time they put back.
Sanders said, Okay, that s what I m saying.
This conversation between Sparks and Sanders proves that a lot of Trump supporters have no idea what Trump and the GOP are actually doing, and they re just as unclear on Trump s policies as he is.
You can watch this amazing conversation with Sanders below, starting at about the 4:15-minute mark:Featured image via screenshot