The idea of a Donald Trump presidency has been terrifying from the second he rode down that escalator and announced that he was running for president.
However, his behavior in recent weeks has been so completely unhinged that people on both sides of the political aisle have been questioning his mental stability.
Even the sitting president did something completely unprecedented and came out and said that Trump is quote, unfit to serve as president.
Now, a Democratic congresswoman from California, Karen Bass, has done what no one has had the courage to do, and started a Change.org petition calling for Donald Trump to undergo a mental health evaluation.
Bass, who had a career in healthcare prior to running for office, says of her decision to move forward with what is surely to be a controversial move regarding the other party s standard-bearer in her petition: Donald Trump is dangerous for our country.
His impulsiveness and lack of control over his own emotions are of concern.
It is our patriotic duty to raise the question of his mental stability to be the commander in chief and leader of the free world.Mr.
Trump appears to exhibit all the symptoms of the mental disorder Narcissistic Personality Disorder (NPD).
Mental health professionals need to come forward and urge the Republican party to insist that their nominee has an evaluation to determine his mental fitness for the job.
Also, in case people had any doubt about what Narcissistic Personality Disorder is and how Trump fits the profile, Rep. Bass laid all of that out as well.
From The Hill:In her petition, Bass laid out the nine symptoms of NPD, which are a grandiose sense of self-importance, a preoccupation with fantasies of unlimited success, a belief that he or she is special and can only be understood by others with a similar status, a requirement of excessive admiration, a sense of entitlement, interpersonal exploitation, lack of empathy, envy of others and arrogant or haughty behavior.Well, that definitely describes Trump s public behavior to the letter, and therefore Rep. Bass s request is completely justified.
Hopefully, the GOP leadership heeds this warning and even if it is done privately has Trump evaluated, if for no other reason than the fact that they actually care about the American people they represent.You can sign this very important petition here at Change.org.Featured image via Joshua Lott/Getty Images