Being the wife of failed Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz is no easy task, but Heidi Cruz has just proven that she s a nut job in her own right.
Either that, or Ted damaged a few brain cells when he elbowed her in the face after suspending his campaign.Although Ted s disaster of a campaign ended a week ago, Heidi s not ready to give up just yet and why would she, considering that Cruz s family spent months claiming God wanted him to run for president, and he failed?!
To try to save face, Heidi portrayed her husband s failure as just one part of a longer, bigger journey you know, just like the fight to end slavery!
During a conference call with the Cruz campaign s National Prayer Team, Heidi made this baffling comparison between her husband s campaign and the abolition of slavery when she said: I don t want you to feel like any of this was in vain.
I believe in the power of prayer.
This doesn t always happen on the timing of man, and God does not work in four-year segments.
Be full of faith and so full of joy that this team was chosen to fight a long battle.
Think that slavery it took 25 years to defeat slavery.
That is a lot longer than four years.
Heidi also spoke on Ted s decision to end his campaign after Trump crushed him in the Indiana primary a win that marked Trump as the GOP s presumptive nominee.
Heidi said: I want to assure all of you that this was not a race we gave up.
This was a race that no longer had a viable path to victory, and it would ve been very demoralizing for you all and the troops to go through nine states of losses.
We left on a high note.
We left when there was no possible way that we were going to win.
Mrs. Cruz also repeatedly said that this (failed) campaign was just the beginning for Ted although it s unclear what that actually means.
Completely forgetting that Cruz is one of the most hated Republicans by fellow Republicans and many of his conservative colleagues wanted NOTHING to do with him, she said: We have changed the Republican Party.
This is no longer about the establishment and the old way of doing things versus the Constitution.
This party is now being deceived, but the old battles are behind us, the new ones are before us.
It was our first national race, but we have changed the Republican Party by Ted being in the Senate and Ted running this race.
Heidi tried to assure callers that her husband was planning an enormous agenda for when he got back to the Senate.
We are not only keeping this band together, we have been having meetings five hours a day since the time we dropped out.
Every single person in our leadership team in our campaign, Ted and I will probably be working with on a weekly basis in the next four years.
The failed candidate himself joined the call later, expressing his disappointment that he was out of the presidential race but urged his fans to continue supporting him.Ted and Heidi are in for a rude awakening just like the outcome of his presidential campaign has proven, Ted is too unlikeable to gain a significant following and support for his ideas.
It doesn t matter that God wanted him to be the president America s voters clearly don t. And certainly, comparing a presidential campaign to an emancipation movement probably isn t winning over anyone.Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images