I was just going to put up the video of this disgusting display of brattiness when I happened to read that Janet Napolitano is the president of UCSB.
Well, well, well, Does anyone remember she went straight to UCSB after leaving the Obama administration as head of the DHS.
Napolitano is an open borders advocate and is part of the reason we re where we are today with our border crisis.
I also happened to see that the college had just approved that illegals attending UCSB can participate in the student loan program funded with TAXPAYER DOLLARS.
How many of you have applied with your children for a student loan only to be turned down?
Yea, it s very difficult to obtain one of these loans.
How in the world did we get here?
It s because we have lying, two-faced politicians who selling the taxpayers down the river Shameful!The protest at UC Santa Barbara occurred on the same day that UC President Janet Napolitano announced more than 3,000 undocumented undergraduate students would now have access to a system-wide student loan program funded by taxpayers.SANTA BARBARA A cadre of University of California-Santa Barbara students took to the quad Thursday to protest the participation of U.S. Customs and Border Protection recruiters at a campus job fair, loudly chanting f*ck your borders, f*ck your walls among other slogans.The 50 or so student protestors who lined the outside of the campus building hosting the career fair held aloft a large banner stating Undocumented Unafraid, and also chanted Hey hey, ho ho CBP has got to go.
We do have undocumented students here on campus who are at potential risk, said UCSB graduate student Idalia Robles in an interview with The College Fix.
This is a very triggering event for people in those circumstances.
There is no space on this campus for an organization that continues to threaten the safety of students.
A video taken by a College Fix reporter shows students continuing to chant similar slogans sometimes in English and other times in Spanish as the demonstration continued into the afternoon.Several students declined to be interviewed by The College Fix, but the group appeared to include a mix of members from several student organizations on campus.
Robles said demonstrators had mostly converged to show solidarity with undocumented students.
This event is a university endorsed event, right?
And there is the presence of Customs and Border Patrol.
We are in a Hispanic serving institution.
One of the concerns that are very present in the Chicano-Latino-Mexicana community is that of immigration and the abuse of power at the hands of immigration officers, she said.
As someone committed to social justice, I know that this is something crucial.
Students at the public university were notified Monday via email about career fair participants, along with a statement by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.The CBP statement read: Uniformed CBP staff will be on site with the sole purpose of providing students with BorderPatrolHiring1information about a broad range of career opportunities.
The CBP personnel will be attending in a recruitment capacity.
CBP recently launched a national recruiting strategy to aggressively recruit women, minorities, veterans, and college students.
Current openings entail not only frontline law-enforcement positions, but also a variety of administrative, professional, and technical functions.
Read more: The College Fix