Are you, or is someone you know, a legally blind patriot who really wants to exercise their Second Amendment rights?
Well, move on down to Georgia and you can do just that.
No, this is not an Onion story.A man in the Southern state is making his friends very, very nervous because he is one of these legally blind patriots who are walking around strapped.
David Bunch s friend, Eule Stewart, is outraged that his state allows someone to carry a weapon even after they have been declared visually impaired: I don t see anybody in their right mind giving a blind man a license to tote a gun in public He says that he can see shadows, pretty much, just shadows and movement.
Think about that for a moment: Bunch is only able to see SHADOWS and the state of Georgia is like, That s cool, bro.
Go ahead and carry this deadly firearm.
He literally would not be able to see if an intruder was coming into his home, or if it was one of his friends stopping by unannounced.What s worse is that the state actually pulled his driver s license because he is unable to see well enough to drive but he is STILL allowed to own a shotgun:Stewart said he offered to help his friend get around after Georgia pulled Bunch s driver s license.In January, Stewart said he drove Bunch to a Dawsonville gun shop to buy a 12-gauge shotgun.
He asked me what the gun looked like, Stewart said.
I said, Well, it s a nice looking gun.
You know, I d like to have a gun like that.
And he said, I ll take that one.
That s right, he couldn t even see the shotgun he was buying!Georgia isn t the only state that puts our lives in danger by allowing people who cannot see to own guns.
The blind citizens of Iowa, Wisconsin, Texas, Michigan and a few other states also allow it.
All of this is possible because there is no federal law banning the visually impaired from carrying and the chances of that changing with the NRA-puppets in control of the Senate and House, are slim to none.As we all know, the GOP isn t the least bit interested in keeping us safe as long as the NRA and gun lobby continue to keep their campaign coffers full.
Featured image via YouTube screenshot (image of Iowa man, not Bunch)