The liberal billionaire donor just called out Donald Trump for being a con artist who threatens democracy.Conservatives fear George Soros.
For decades they have painted him as the bad guy who somehow controls the government behind the scenes.It s a right-wing tall tale, of course, meant to scare other conservatives into staying in line rather than using their brains to decide who to vote for.It s not often that Soros speaks out, but when he does it is powerful because his experience as a Jewish child in Nazi-occupied Hungary continues to resonate.
I am an 86-year-old Hungarian Jew who became a US citizen after the end of World War II, Soros wrote in an op-ed on Wednesday.
I learned at an early age how important it is what kind of political regime prevails.
The formative experience of my life was the occupation of Hungary by Hitler s Germany in 1944.
I probably would have perished had my father not understood the gravity of the situation.
He arranged false identities for his family and for many other Jews; with his help, most survived.
Soros story is especially important now as countries across Europe move to the extreme right-wing as white nationalists once again aim to grab absolute power.
They ve even managed to grab power in the United States through Donald Trump.
And Soros warns that democracy is in danger.I find the current moment in history very painful.
Open societies are in crisis, and various forms of closed societies from fascist dictatorships to mafia states are on the rise Democracy is now in crisis.
Even the US, the world s leading democracy, elected a con artist and would-be dictator as its president.
Although Trump has toned down his rhetoric since he was elected, he has changed neither his behavior nor his advisers.
His cabinet comprises incompetent extremists and retired generals.He then predicted what the United States faces under Trump s regime.
[T]he US will be preoccupied with internal struggles in the near future, and targeted minorities will suffer.
The US will be unable to protect and promote democracy in the rest of the world.
On the contrary, Trump will have greater affinity with dictators.
That will allow some of them to reach an accommodation with the US, and others to carry on without interference.
Trump will prefer making deals to defending principles.
Unfortunately, that will be popular with his core constituency.In short, dictators around the world, especially Vladimir Putin, will have more freedom to pursue their evil agendas without being challenged by America.
Our leadership on the world stage will be greatly diminished as nations like Russia and China take advantage of Trump s ineptness.America faces a four-year long disaster that could become permanent if Republicans have their way.Of course, conservatives are lashing out at Soros in response because his name is a trigger for them.
@georgesoros Jan 20th comes around the search warrant is going to be issued & enjoy Russia & Putin dick in your mouth @realDonaldTrump Jimmy Taouil (@JimmyTaouil) December 28, 2016@georgesoros @OpenSociety happy to see your petulant rant!
Hope Trump is the nail in the coffin for your failed socialist globalist NWO pic.twitter.com/8t0fJdKbGo GGIRL (@OurtownU) December 29, 2016@georgesoros Ha!
How dare you post anything!
You are a criminal,a hater,an enemy of freedom,democracy!!
And we in the republic of the USA antony donavan (@donavan_antony) December 25, 2016@georgesoros @OpenSociety Everything George Soros says he means the opposite he s the definition of evil and he s proud of it.
Who s Next (@ThomasYarduk) December 29, 2016@georgesoros @OpenSociety Just go to a hospice home, George.
We are onto your one world govt plans.
#MAGA Jon #MAGA?
(@jgriner7) December 29, 2016@georgesoros @OpenSociety Finally Soros will get what he deserves from Trump Admin.
Jail for you George.
Ben Dover (@BKossucare) December 29, 2016Clearly, Soros hit paranoid conspiracy theory-obsessed conservatives with the truth where it hurts the most so they are now whining about it.
Now we only have to wait for Donald trump to throw a tantrum.Featured Image: Wikimedia