When Senator Bernie Sanders speaks about a political revolution, he means grassroots organization propelling not just him to the presidency, but other progressive candidates into elected office as well.
While Hillary Clinton has built upon her lead in the Democratic Primary, Bernie Sanders supporters should still fight to help progressive candidates across the country on local, state, and federal levels.
Many of these candidates represent the issues and concerns Bernie Sanders addressed that makes his candidacy so appealing to thousands of Americans.While his opponents court wealthy campaign contributors, the 6 8 tattooed Fetterman hosts meet and greets in Pennsylvania dive bars to raise small individual campaign contributions.
The Harvard University graduate came to Braddock, PA in 2001 to help local youth earn their GEDs.
In 2005, he won the election for mayor by a single vote and has helped transform a forgotten remnant of the once prosperous American steel industry into a budding new haven for small businesses, artists, and developers.
Pennsylvania holds its Democratic Primary on April 26th.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz s public image was significantly damaged as her leadership of the DNC as its chair was highly scrutinized by both Clinton and Sanders supporters, in addition to many of her colleagues.
The corruption and poor leadership she has exhibited inspired Wall Street activist, Tim Canova, to become her first Democratic Primary challenger since she first was elected to congress in 2004.
The primary will be held on August 30th.Congressman Grayson took a career risk, especially since he is running in a Democratic Primary against a fellow Congressman, Patrick Murphy, to formally endorse Senator Bernie Sanders for president.
Grayson is known for his productivity in congress getting bills amendments proposed and passed, but he is also well known for irking Republicans and his fellow Democrats as well.
The proud progressive offers an alternative to the moderate Patrick Murphy, who switched to the Democratic Party shortly after contributing to Mitt Romney s failed 2012 presidential bid.On June 7th, Tom Fiegen is running for the Democratic nomination to unseat Republican incumbent U.S.
Senator Chuck Grassley.
Fiegen, a proponent for campaign finance reform, wants to help the working class people who are all too often his clients as a bankruptcy lawyer in Iowa.A former Nevada Assemblywoman, Flores comes from a family of 13 children, born into a poor family in a low income neighborhood in the Las Vegas area, she turned her life around after a brief stint in juvenile detention, returning to school, and going on to college to become a lawyer, and eventually a state legislator by the age of 31.
She maintains a strong lead against her opposition in the Democratic Primary on June 14th.Progressive candidate, Jesse Sbaih faces a tougher road in winning the Democratic nomination for Nevada s 3rd congressional district s seat.
The immigrant from Jordan came to the U.S. with his family at the age of 11, and worked his way through school as a dishwasher.
Now he runs his own law firm and is running for congress to put many progressive reforms proposed by Senator Bernie Sanders into legislation.
Like most pro-Sanders candidates, Sbaih is funding his campaign on small, individual contributions rather than Super-Pac or corporate money.Zephyr Teachout, an Associate Law Professor at Fordham University, took the Democratic establishment by surprise after she won 34 won 34 percent of the vote in the 2014 Democratic Primary against incumbent Democrat, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo.
This year, she is running for congress and will most likely take the Democratic nomination in the primary on June 28th.Senator Bernie Sanders campaign has also highlighted progressive superstars already in office.
Aside from Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard, who made national headlines after resigning for her position as DNC Vice Chair to endorse Sanders, self-proclaimed socialist, Kshamas Sawant, was elected to Seattle s City Council in 2013, and re-elected in 2015 despite opposition from the Democratic Party establishment.
Sawant was a key leader in pushing for the passage of a $15 minimum wage in Seattle and has led efforts to combat increasing city wide rents.
When you occupy elected office it is absolutely critical you remain unfailingly loyal to the needs of working people which means you can never be bought and every moment you have to use your position to amplify the voice of working people, the voice of people of color, and the voices of the marginalized, she told the Huffington Post in a December 2015 interview.Featured image via Marc Nozell on Flickr