Governor Scott Walker from the good state of Wisconsin did a very strange thing on Tuesday: he posted a close up picture of his right hand.
Now, why on earth did he do such a thing?
Don t ask us we haven t a clue.
And neither does the rest of the internet.
But, that didn t stop them from completely roasting the governor in truly epic fashion shortly after the occurrence.
And for that, we say, it made the strange affair all very well worth it.Given the recent stir about Trump s small hands, though, it s entirely possible Walker was joining in with Senator Marco Rubio and ganging up on him about it.
Recently, Marco took off the gloves (pun intended) and started making fun of Trump s spray tan and even suggested he had a small pecker due to the size of his fingers.
He s always calling me little Marco.
And, I ll admit, he s taller than me, he s like 6 2.
Which is why I don t understand why the size of his hands are from someone who s 5 2.
And you know what they say about men with small hands.
They re probably only doing it because Trump has already made it known how much he hates it.
Trump once went so far as to write the author of an article who called him a short-fingered Vulgarian.
And he reportedly still sends hateful messages.
Talk about insecurity.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.If Governor Walker truly was trying to take a dig at Trump, it ended up hurting him in the process.
Those weren t even the half of it.
It would simply take too long to post every single hilarious response he received.
And we can only imagine the responses will continue throughout the day, as well as into the foreseeable future.Yes, Walker sure does have a lot of time on his hands now that he s no longer running for president (dropped out in September 2015).
When he s not signing a bunch of new bills into law taking away the rights of unions, or trying to get rid of a woman s right to choose, Walker has a new hobby: showing the world what his fingers look like.
If he keeps this up, he may even have a new job as a right-wing hand model someday.
Anything would be better than him being governor.Featured image via Flickr