CNN was quick to scoop up Corey Lewandowski after Donald Trump kicked him out of his role as campaign manager, but his first week on the job is going pretty much exactly how you would expect it to go terribly.Not only has Lewandowski proven himself to be pretty much like a paid spokesman for Trump, but his defense of the disgraced GOP candidate isn t being received well.
Earlier this week, Lewandowski revealed that he was under contract and couldn t criticize The Donald, even after being fired from the campaign.
Today, Lewandowski got called out by Hillary Clinton surrogate Christine Quinn for hyping Trump up to be an expert on the Brexit decision a suggestion that was clearly false.On Monday s edition of CNN s New Day, Lewandowski made another pathetic defense of Trump by trying to reframe the candidate s disgusting reaction to Brexit, where he mostly spoke about how much the decision would be good for his Scotland golf resort.
Lewandowski s defense was: Obviously the U.S. dollar has become much stronger now against the British pound.
If you re going to spend money in Europe, now would actually be a good time to go with the fall of the pound.What you have is a world view, so what you have is someone who is saying, Let s look at this from the U.S. perspective.
If you want to go and travel overseas just from a monetary perspective now is the right time to do that because what you re getting is more for your dollar.
Quinn wasn t having it.
She ripped into Lewandowski, firing back, Donald Trump is not running to be travel agent of the world, he s running to be president of the United States.
She continued: What he said wasn t a commentary on international markets, it was, When the pound goes down, more people will come to my golf course.
Donald Trump s main concern isn t the international markets, it isn t the impact that Brexit will have on hard working Americans 401Ks, it s himself.
How can he make more money, how can he put more money in his bank account?
Lewandowski compared the Brexit decision to Trump s rise in the GOP, and Quinn once again called him out and put him back in his place.
She said: Trump touted that he saw this coming.
That s ridiculous because when he was first asked about Brexit by the press, he didn t appear to know what it was.
Lewandowski tried to counter by insisting that People are too smart, they are tired of being told what to do.
He then tried to commend Trump for being a selfish moron: You know what Donald Trump said about Brexit?
What he said was, you don t have to listen to me because it s not my decision.
He didn t weigh in like Hillary Clinton did, like Barack Obama did, saying that you can t do this.
Quinn fought back, Because he didn t know what it was.
Lewandowski was fighting a losing battle.
Trump s reaction to Brexit was just as terrifying as it was humorous it truly proved that Trump knows nothing about foreign affairs, and hasn t spent any time educating himself since the beginning of his presidential candidacy.
If only some of the hours he spent getting into fights on Twitter were being used for learning about how the world works.
But instead, he once again exposed himself as an unfit choice for President.
And when people like Lewandowski try to make sense of his idiocy, they only make themselves look equally foolish.You can watch the embarrassing video below:Featured image via screen capture