White House press secretary Sean Spicer said on Thursday that the federal government could crack down on recreational marijuana use across the country, even in states that have legalized weed.
This from the party of states rights.
Just yesterday, Spicer said that transgender students rights are a states rights issue.
Coincidentally, the states that have legalized recreational marijuana use voted largely for Trump s rival, Hillary Clinton.
Hmm Spicer just compared recreational marijuana to the opioid crisis after an Arkansas reporter asked whether alleged President Donald Trump was OK with the state s medical marijuana law, rules for which were recently approved by the state s Medical Marijuana Commission.Spicer said the Department of Justice will be taking action against states that have legalized recreational marijuana.Spicer: DOJ will be taking action against states that have legalized recreational marijuana.
Radley Balko (@radleybalko) February 23, 2017Then this happened:Spicer said Trump approves of medical marijuana use which could help provide relief to the chronically ill as opposed to recreational use, which Spicer suggested was tied to the opioid crisis many states are currently facing.Watch: There is still a federal law that we need to abide by when it comes to recreational marijuana and other drugs of that nature, Spicer said.This is going down really well on Twitter.So let s break down @seanspicer today: He says states should have the right to decide trans bathroom use, but not recreational pot use?
pic.twitter.com/q1mxLMWSf6 Emily C. Singer (@CahnEmily) February 23, 2017@FatChickinLA @radleybalko I know several Trump supporters who also happen to be potheads.
Wonder how his supporters who smoke will cope.
Nora (@Puzycat69) February 23, 2017@radleybalko @peterfeld but, what about state rights?
He just said state rights!
Alexandra Halaby (@iskandrah) February 23, 201771% of Americans don t want a crackdown on state marijuana laws.
So what will the Trump admin do?
Crack down on em!
https://t.co/aB9WB4QmZy https://t.co/9yNJb2uILn Emily C. Singer (@CahnEmily) February 23, 2017According to 300 economists, including three Nobel laureates, if the government legalized marijuana it would save $7.7 billion annually.
Let s look at Washington state where it garnered more than $250 million in marijuana sales in 2015.
About $62 million of that constitutes marijuana excise taxes.Donald Trump did well in areas where many opiate overdoses and deaths occurred.
The opioid crisis is real and deadly.
That needs to be addressed so naturally, Republicans want to gut Obamacare, the health care law which has helped addicts get direly needed treatment.
And Sean, marijuana is not an opioid, ya big dummy.
Chemical Dependency is called a disease because it s progressive, chronic and fatal.
Marijuana is none of those things.Try not to take everyone s fun away, k?