Donald Trump is rising in the polls, has the media wrapped around his little finger, and people are starting to take him seriously.
With all these things going in his favor, with 50 days left until the election, you d think he would stick to staying on script.But, as always, he screws it up.Just hours after denouncing birtherism (and then falsely accusing the 2008 Clinton campaign of starting it), Trump delivered another off-color, off script speech in Miami where he (yet again) hinted at Hillary Clinton s assassination.After incorrectly claiming that Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment (which she can t do), Trump said: I think that her bodyguards should drop all weapons.
They should disarm.
I think they should disarm immediately, what do you think, yes?
Take their guns away, she doesn t want guns.
Take them, let s see what happens to her.
Take their guns away, okay.
It will be very dangerous.
And just like that, Trump basically called for an assassination of Hillary Clinton, and the basket of deplorables cheered like the rabid dogs they are.Just five weeks ago, Trump hinted that angry gun rights supporters could take matters into their own hands assassinating Hillary Clinton should she win the presidency: Hillary wants to essentially abolish the Second Amendment.
If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do folks.
Although the Second Amendment people maybe there is, I don t know.
After those comments were made, Trump received intense backlash from both the left and the right.
Although his people maintain he was not advocating for assassination, but rather them getting out to vote, his campaign promised to stay on script the remainder of the race.Clearly they aren t following their own advice.Former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot in the head at a constituents meeting thus forcing her to resign from Congress demanded Trump apologize and disavow his dangerous comments: In his more stable moments, Mr. Trump has said he regrets some of the ugly insults and dangerous threats he has leveled during the course of this campaign.
We call on him to immediately renounce these comments, apologize to Hillary Clinton, and acknowledge that once again he has gone dangerously too far.
If anyone knows the danger of stoking political violence, no matter how innocent it may seem, it s Gabrielle Giffords.
Republicans, Independents, and weary Democrats should ask themselves: is this who they want representing them?
A man who makes a casual reference to violence against Hillary Clinton?Any presidential candidate who is so cowardly he has to call on his opponent to essentially be assassinated should in no way even remotely be considered for the job.
Perhaps Trump s secret service agents should have a word with the Republican candidate about jokes regarding death.When will the American people stand up and say enough is enough.
Enough of the off-script jokes, enough of the blatant disregard for cordial campaigning, enough of the deplorable and reprehensible comments.Featured image via Joe Readle/Getty Images