Angry constituents have inundated town hall meetings over concerns of Obamacare being repealed and other issues.
There is so much frustration with constituents over Trump s policies that Republicans in Congress are avoiding in-person town hall meetings.
Vice News reports that 200 Republicans in Congress are skipping town hall meetings with their constituents in February.
Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN) will not allow protesting, or what he calls disruptive behavior at his upcoming town hall Wednesday or the event will be canceled.
Specifically, no chanting will be allowed at the Snowflake s event.
Of course, we never heard the same to be said when tea partiers descended on Democratic lawmaker s town hall meetings and shut them down over Obamacare.
Republicans are feeling the heat and so is the alleged president.
The so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal activists.
Sad!
Trump said on Tuesday.The so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal activists.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 21, 2017In order to discredit those who offend our fragile POTUS, Trump routinely uses the term so-called, just as he did with a federal judge who ruled against his Muslim ban.Rep.
Justin Amash (R-Mich.) pushed back against Trump s claim that liberal activists are organizing agitated protests in Republican districts.
They are our fellow Americans with legitimate concerns.
We need to stop acting so fragile.
I m proud to defend liberty and the Constitution, he tweeted.They are our fellow Americans with legitimate concerns.
We need to stop acting so fragile.
I m proud to defend liberty and the Constitution.
https://t.co/2CcD02mXzl Justin Amash (@justinamash) February 22, 2017Amash called out Trump before after the amateur president kept attacking Rep. John Lewis.
Dude, just stop, he tweeted in January.Dude, just stop.
https://t.co/UCIqhqGnXu Justin Amash (@justinamash) January 15, 2017He s not wrong but he s in a swing state so we re wondering if he s pandering to voters in his area, however, he has faced packed town halls in his home state recently with hundreds of constituents.
I think it is critical that members of Congress hold in-person town halls like this, Amash said at an event about two weeks ago, according to The Hill.
There aren t enough of people on either side of the aisle who do it.
Image: Gage Skidmore via Flickr.