Actress Gabrielle Union did not hold back after the ladies of The View asked her to comment on Donald Trump s attack on Meryl Streep.Joy Behar wanted to hear what Union thought about Streep s speech at the Golden Globes, in which she called out you know who for attacking people.Union did not hold back.
She talked about someone who openly mocked a disabled reporter, so if you weren t somebody that openly mocked a disabled reporter, you wouldn t have your panties in a bunch, she began.
Somebody had their panties in a bunch because he openly mocked a disabled reporter and it was captured on video.
He panders to hate and that s what she talked about.
Union went on to say that Streep did not attack Trump, but simply shined a light on his terrible behavior.
That s called being accountable for your actions.
Indeed, Streep never mentioned Trump by name and merely called out his divisive and petty behavior.
Yet, Trump accused Streep of attacking him and lied about mocking New York Times reporter Serge Kovaleski on Twitter.Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn t know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never mocked a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017 groveling when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Union also put conservatives in their place for telling Streep that she should be making political statements because she s an entertainer, pointing out that Trump made political statements all the time while he was the star of a reality TV show.
If you got a publicist and you care about the ratings of the Apprentice, you re in entertainment, Union said.
So, you re one of us, honey.
Then Union was asked what she thinks about Kellyanne Conway s insistence that we should ignore what Trump says and does and look at what s in his heart instead.
You know, because Trump doesn t mean any of the bad things he says or does.
I once looked into his heart, Union responded.
It grabbed my butt.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump and Kellyanne Conway are two of the worst people on the planet right now.
He lies and hurls insults and she defends him.
That s why we need people like Streep and Union to use their public platforms to call them out on their bullshit.Featured Image: Screenshot