President Trump on Saturday criticized Hillary Clinton, the Democrat he defeated in the 2016 White House race, for her recent and repeated questioning of the election results.
Crooked Hillary Clinton is the worst (and biggest) loser of all time, Trump tweeted.
She just can t stop, which is so good for the Republican Party.
Hillary, get on with your life and give it another try in three years!
Crooked Hillary Clinton is the worst (and biggest) loser of all time.
She just can t stop, which is so good for the Republican Party.
Hillary, get on with your life and give it another try in three years!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 18, 2017The Republican president was likely responding to a Mother Jones interview published Friday in which Clinton questioned last year s election results, amid evidence that Russia tried to influence the race outcome.
She called for an independent commission to investigate the matter.Clinton, in the interview, also alleged voter suppression in the 2016 race, saying, In a couple of places, most notably Wisconsin, I think it had a dramatic impact on the outcome.
FOX NewsIn case America has forgotten why Donal Trump trounced Hillary in the polls, watch the short clip from their second presidential debate below:The very sick Hillary Clinton barely made it through to the November election without needing a stretcher, while running her very lackadaisical 2016 presidential campaign.
It would be very interesting to see Hillary attempt a comeback 4 years later.Watch, as Hillary collapes while attempting to enter her van after leaving a 9-11 memorial service early, reportedly because she was suffering a mysterious medical situation that required her to leave during the ceremony.
At first, her campaign said she was suffering from heat exaustion, after the American public refused to buy their excuse, the campaign then said she had pnuemonia.
After several weeks of watching her being propped up and carried around by the arm like a candidate who has one foot on a banana peel and the other in her grave, following her 9-11 incident , we re definitely not buying it.This IS NOT heat related.
#HillarysHealth pic.twitter.com/PFNfCEVFrV John Cardillo (@johncardillo) September 11, 2016And then, there is the long list of crimes committed by Hillary, that she has yet to be prosecuted for.The list of Hillary s crimes continues to grow, even after the election.
Just before the 2016 presidential election, Breitbart put together a list of a few of the most well-documented crimes and national security nightmares that are in her resume.
Here is the list:Clinton is promising expanded numbers of Syrian refugees brought to the United States, despite the fact that 99.1% of the 13,210 refugees admitted to the US in 2016 are Muslim and the FBI has said there is no way to adequately vet them for terrorist connections and sympathies.Our true national scandal is not that Clinton has so far escaped indictment, it is that so many of our civic and political institutions have been corrupted by a misguided loyalty to the Clinton crime syndicate.From the board rooms of Wall Street to the editorial boards of local newspapers and the town halls of the League of Women Voters, the defense of the progressive cause has come down to defending the indefensible pay-for-play cronyism, open borders and national security breaches on a global scale.A full chronicle of Hillary Clinton s crimes will someday fill a large shelf of books, if not a whole library.There could be no better news for President Donald Trump in 2020, than the announcement that Hillary was going to throw her hat in the ring for the third time.
Bring it Hillary America can t wait!