If Trump isn t willing to attach his name to something, you know it must really be bad no matter how wonderful he says it is.On Monday, House Republicans passed what they dubiously refer to as the American Healthcare Act, which repeals the Affordable Care Act.The bill would strip healthcare from millions of Americans, including the millions who were able to access Medicaid coverage.
The bill also defunds Planned Parenthood and sticks senior citizens with higher costs among a litany of other things that screw over the American people.On Tuesday, Donald Trump praised the bill on Twitter.Our wonderful new Healthcare Bill is now out for review and negotiation.
ObamaCare is a complete and total disaster is imploding fast!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 7, 2017Of course, the only reason why the Affordable Care Act is imploding is because Trump and Republicans have been sabotaging it.But as wonderful as Trump says the Make America Sick Again bill is, his propaganda minister Kellyanne Conway is desperate to make sure Trump s name is not attached to it.After being asked by Fox News host Bill Hemmer if it would be okay to call the bill Trumpcare, Conway was quick to reply that Trump s name should not be associated with it in such a way.
It s the American Health Care Act, and I think it s aptly named that for this reason, Conway said.
It wants to cover, it wants everyone to have access to coverage, and that is something that didn t happen under Obamacare I ll call it Trumpcare if you want to, but I didn t hear President Trump say to any of us, I want my name on that.
It s not about branding according to someone s name.
This is serious business.
Here s the video via YouTube:Gee, that didn t stop Republicans from branding the Affordable Care Act as Obamacare, even though the landmark healthcare law was aptly named because it actually made healthcare more accessible and affordable for millions of Americans.Trump s American Healthcare Act only strips millions of Americans of their healthcare coverage.
It does nothing to give coverage to everyone.
If Trump wants to cover all Americans he would push for universal healthcare, not a bill that takes healthcare away from millions, including people who voted for him.The real reason why Conway doesn t want Trump s name on the bill is because it s a bad bill that will harm a lot of people.
In fact, it will likely lead to the deaths of many Americans.Trump and his Republican sycophants don t give a shit about all the people they are going to hurt by repealing the Affordable Care Act.
Ad they certainly do not care about this country and its future.
They only care about themselves.Featured image via screenshot