How does the old saying go?
The more unapologetically defensive you appear, the more guilty you probably are or something like that.
That at least seems to be the case with Donald Trump any time he is scrutinized on, well, pretty much anything.
However, when it comes to his claim that he s raised money for veterans, even though many are saying he s grossly exaggerating the amount, he really doesn t like being called out on the discrepancy.During a press conference on Tuesday, Trump was asked by ABC s Tom Llamas: Mr. Trump, writing a one million dollar check is incredibly generous, but the night of that Iowa fundraiser you said you had raised $6 million.
Clearly you had not.
Your critics say you tend to exaggerate, you have a problem with the truth.
Is this a prime example?
Trump responded: No, I raised almost $6 million.
Some of it didn t come through, but more money is coming through.
The number is probably is going to be when we finish it probably going to be over the $6 million.
Trump then proceeds to blast the media, and then at one point called out Llamas directly, even calling him a sleaze for having the audacity to point out facts.
Trump said: But what I don t want is when I raise millions of dollars, have people say, like this sleazy guy right over here from ABC.
He s a sleaze in my book.
You re a sleaze because you know the facts and you know the facts well.
Ironically, Llamas does seem to know the facts well, and Trump doesn t like being called out on the fact that he s been exaggerating.Llamas took to Twitter shortly after saying:Trump just called me a "sleaze."
Should be an interesting week.
Tom Llamas (@TomLlamasABC) May 31, 2016What sort of person running for leader of the free world behaves like this?
Trump is completely thin-skinned and bullies anyone who dare question him.
If he can t handle being scrutinized, how the hell is he going to lead the nation, or for that matter, work in our diplomatic world interests across the globe.
Truth is, he wouldn t be able to.
He s remarkably unqualified and we need to make sure he gets nowhere near the Oval Office.Watch Trump lose his damn mind here:Featured image via video screen capture