Comedian and former Daily Show correspondent Samantha Bee launched her first show at the helm of Full Frontal this week with an all-out skewering of the 2016 Presidential election race, focusing her best lines as the GOP clown car.Introducing the race as the most deranged electoral sh*t show in a generation , Bee quickly moved onto to hilarious vocal assaults on individual candidates.After taking a moment to lampoon the outfit of Bernie Sanders, who she said appears to have shown up at the debate wearing the party s big tent, she told Hillary Clinton to f*ck off after a clip of the former Secretary of State making a transparently inauthentic attempt at being folksy.
But Bee was really just warming up, because then she turned to the GOP.
Or, as Bee put it: We ll be honest with you people.
We wont like two hours of jokes about the Democrats.
But we had to throw them all away because then the Republicans laid out a banquet of all-you-can-eat crazy.
She began with an attack on Iowa winner and fist-faced horsesh*t salesman Senator Ted Cruz.
Then, the scene cuts to an interview with CNN s Dana Ford, and Heidi Cruz (the Senator s wife).
Ford asks Heidi to explain why her husband is so thoroughly disliked by his fellow Republican Senators, candidates and well everyone in the country.
As the scene pauses on the screen behind her, Bee gives a response on Heidi s behalf: It s not his fault, Dana, My husband has stage four cancer of the personality.
Bee also skewers the candidate for this warped effort to utilize his own daughter to political advantage, by attempting to kiss her on camera.
It all goes horribly wrong when she reels back from her dad s creepy advances.
Let s just look at that again.
Bee takes apart Marco Rubio for exploiting his own children at a political rally, wing a clip of Rubio prompting his son to a truly abysmal gag.
For what benefit?
Oh look at that!
Marco Rubio finally found a way to look like the big boy in the room!
she says.No candidate is left untouched in Bee s brilliant rant, which might just be the finest assault on the GOP clown car yet in the 2016 race.You can watch the piece in full in the video below: SamBeeseg1 by lookatmyshirt Featured Image via Screengrab