Donald Trump has already proven to America that he attracts the energy that he puts out.
This has been especially true for his loyal supporters, as his racism and xenophobia have attracted white supremacists, fascists and neo-Nazis from all over the country.
However, his fear mongering tactics don t just appeal to his fans.
It turns out, some of the presumptive Republican nominee s delegates are just as racist and hateful, and it s creating a movement that is becoming more of a threat to America s safety with every passing day.A recent example of just how deadly Trump s supporters are can be shown with the recent words of David Riden, a top delegate to Trump who will be attending the Republican National Convention.
In an interview with Mother Jones, Riden had some terrifying words for how he would like to correct our government, which he claims is way off away from the Constitution right now.
His solution would be to slaughter America s current leaders (aka President Barack Obama) for not satisfying his highly inaccurate interpretation of the U.S. Constitution.
And in case you felt that might have just been an exaggeration, Riden was kind enough to clarify what he meant so there s no room for interpretation.
He said: The polite word is eliminated.
The harsh word is killed.
Riden continued to say that these certain leaders should be killed by American citizens with weapons.
And if people have tanks, assault weapons, if they have bombs they need to have the weaponry necessary to be able to overthrow the federal government.
In Riden s perfect world, America looks like this: (P)eople have the right to assemble, bear arms, go to Washington, DC, or wherever necessary, and go into military battle against the government and replace those in government with individuals that will uphold the Constitution.
It s no surprise that Riden is supporting Trump.
Riden is a former nuclear engineer and is a member of the sovereign citizen movement, which believes that the government is conspiring to take away their guns, human rights and land.
He was also an attendee of the Continental Congress of 2009, which is a huge gathering of white supremacist and right-wing hate groups.
It s been noted that these groups have grown at a feverish pace during Obama s presidency, and Trump has expertly tapped into that racism and hate like no candidate before.
When it comes to people like Riden, Trump just keeps adding fuel to the fire.Featured image via Elijah Nouvelage / Getty Images