Even Fox News is calling Donald Trump out for attacking the media.After a press conference that will go down as the most embarrassing and confusing ever given in this nation s history, Fox News host Shep Smith blasted Trump for attacking the press, specifically CNN reporter Jim Acosta.Trump often praises Fox News while bashing the other major news outlets and once again attacked the media during his first solo press conference in which he appeared to be just telling reporters what he was told to tell them.Trump repeatedly referred to CNN as fake news and personally attacked Acosta while he was trying to ask questions about the Russia scandal that has engulfed the White House.
Russia is fake news, Trump claimed.
Russia this is fake news put out by the media .The leaks are real.
You re the one that wrote about them and reported them.
I mean the leaks are real.
You know what they said.
You saw it and the leaks are absolutely real.
The news is fake because so much of the news is fake.
If the information coming from the leaks is real, then how can the stories be fake?
Acosta asked.Trump responded by trashing CNN for not taking him at his word instead of verifying his claims and reporting the truth.
He then praised Fox & Friends for kissing his ass like a good propaganda machine.
When you call it fake news, you re undermining the confidence in the news media, Acosta shot back.
Trump replied by telling Acosta that he knows when he should get good or bad stories in the news and suggested that the media should get in line and write the stories he wants them to write.Seriously.Trump went on to excuse his demand by saying he won the election and claimed his administration is running smoothly despite all the recent reports that say otherwise.Well, Shep Smith was not amused and he took Trump to the woodshed for it.First, Smith addressed Trump s disastrous attempt to hold a big boy conference all by himself.
It s sort of our job to let you know when things are said that aren t true, Smith said in defense of the media.
This president keeps telling untrue things and he does it every single time he s in front of a microphone some of them aren t really big, but they re coming from the president.
He then attacked the logic of Trump s claim that Russia is fake news.
He says Russia is a ruse, it s fake news.
The leaks are real, but the news is fake.
So, that s impossible.
It s very confusing, especially when Trump says thing that are demonstrably, unquestionably, opinion aside, 100 percent false.
Then Smith passionately defended Acosta.
He s an accomplished reporter a guy I ve never met, but a good reporter.
[Trump was] treating him like I m not even going to use the word.
I m not going to give Twitter the love it needs.
It s crazy what we re watching everyday, it s absolutely crazy.
He keeps repeating ridiculous throwaway lines that are not true at all and sort of avoiding this issue of Russia, as if we re some kind of fools for asking the question.
Really?
Smith continued into an epic conclusion.
Your opposition was hacked, and the Russians were responsible for it, and your people were on the phone with Russia on the same day it was happening, and we re fools for asking the questions?
No, sir, we are not fools for asking this question, and we demand to know the answer to this question.
You owe this to the American people.
We have a right to know, we absolutely do, and that you call us fake news and put us down like children for asking this question is inconsequential.
The people deserve that answer.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump should be ashamed of himself and the media should absolutely keep doing their jobs by calling out Trump s lies every day.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images