The Smithsonian s Museum of African-American History opened to much fanfare, and also, much hatred from white people who think that such a thing is an affront to white history and therefore, reverse discrimination.
Since Trump was elected, hate crimes and incidents have skyrocketed, and now, some racist asshat (or more than one) has decided to take their hatred straight to that museum.By hanging a noose.Yes, seriously.
Someone hung a noose up in the Museum of African-American History.
And not just once, but twice over the last four days.
The noose isn t an innocent symbol.
It s a stark and painful reminder of the days when lynching was common practice, particularly against black people.Which is precisely the reason these people hang nooses like that.
According to a spokesman for the Southern Poverty Law Center, it s been a long time since we saw hatred like this: We haven t seen such mainstream support for hate in decades, not since the Civil Rights era 50 years ago.
We re witnessing a moment when there are tremendous challenges to the country that we built on pluralism and democracy.
The civil rights accorded every American are firmly under threat.
But people of color, women, the LGBTQ community, and every other marginalized group out there is apparently a direct threat to the straight, white, Christian American, and Trump s election has empowered them to act like they re just taking their country back from the scourge of political correctness they so decried during the campaign.The Smithsonian issued their own statement about this, and they cut whoever it is that s responsible for the nooses: The Smithsonian family stands together in condemning this act of hatred and intolerance, especially repugnant in a museum that affirms and celebrates the American values of inclusion and diversity, wrote the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution David Skorton in an Institution-wide email.
We will not be intimated.
Cowardly acts like these will not, for one moment, prevent us from the vital work we do.
People who do this are trying to drag our country back to a time when they were comfortable because they could step on everybody different from them.
We can t let that continue to happen.Featured image by Astrid Riecken via Getty Images