President Obama took aim at Donald Trump and his violent racist rhetoric on Saturday, and it makes us wish he could run for a third term.
America is pretty darn great right now, Obama thundered in Dallas in a direct rebuke of Trump s campaign claim that American has somehow gotten worse over the last eight years.
America is making strides right now!
America is better off than it was right now!
The American people should be proud of what we have achieved together in the last eight years since the recession hit.
We are great right now.
Obama then went after Trump and the other GOP candidates for turning the election into a childish circus where lies reign over facts and violence against other Americans is encouraged, something that has led to multiple clashes between Trump supporters and protesters.
What the folks who are running for office should be focused on is how we can make it even better not insults and schoolyard taunts and manufacturing facts, not divisiveness along the lines of race and faith.
Certainly not violence against other Americans or excluding them.
We re a better country than that.
Here s the video via YouTube.But President Obama was not done yet.
As the crowd laughed, Obama turned Trump and his multiple business scams into a punchline.
Imagine what Trump would say if he actually had a record like this instead of selling steaks, Obama quipped.
Has anybody bought that wine?
Obama asked the audience.
I want to know what that wine tastes like.
I mean, come on, you know that s like some $5 wine.
They slap a label on it, they charge you $50, saying this is the greatest wine ever.
Come on!
And then President Obama lambasted Republicans for saying how shocked they are over Trump s racist rhetoric, reminding them that their front-runner is the same guy who would not drop his obsession with Obama s birth certificate.
Republicans didn t say anything then, Obama pointed out, because Trump s rhetoric was not aimed at the GOP like it is now.Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, the Republican Party and Fox News built the monster that is now taking over the party and invited white supremacists to take a prominent seat next to him.Trump s status as front-runner should be the end of the Republican Party as a legitimate political organization, but it appears Trump is merely replacing it with a fascist organization that will be even worse.
In their desperation to oppose President Obama at every turn using hate and fear to gin up opposition and extremism, Republicans created the atmosphere for someone like Trump to rise and thrive and now they are paying the price for it.
And so is America.
One wonders how long it will be before even Republicans wish that President Obama could stay in office for another four years.Featured image via video screen capture