The president s Saturday morning address is chock-full of good news for working class Americans.
Unemployment is at the lowest it s been since before Bush tanked the economy.
With 70 straight months of job growth, confidence that the American jobs market will reach full employment is high.
As President Obama points out, however, it s never enough to stand on your laurels.One of the major problems with the recovery has been that when companies started hiring again, they hired at lower wages.
It may have been out of fear that thew worst may still be ahead or it could be out of a need to recoup the losses they experienced from 8 years of Bush policies.
Regardless, the working class American is the one who pays the price.
Most of corporate America operates on bottom line numbers, not whether or not their employees can afford to eat.
Passing on the losses to those who work their butts off to rebuild their companies has become standard operating procedure.The President has vowed to change that in his final year in office, starting with those who need it most.
He s initiating a plan of not just improved unemployment insurance and job training for those who still can t find a job, but wage insurance for those people making under $50K per year who are re-hired for a job at a lower wage.
The plan would cover up to $10K in wage replacement over two years to struggling families making less now for the same job they were doing before they were let go.The president says in his address: If a hardworking American loses her job, regardless of what state she lives in, we should make sure she can get unemployment insurance and some help to retrain for her next job.
It s a way to give families some stability and encourage folks to rejoin the workforce because we shouldn t just be talking about unemployment; we should be talking about reemployment, Moving the country forward has been the goal of this administration from day one.
It used to be that we could be sure that Republicans would block whatever the president tried to do, causing him to move on to the next thing, but lately he s been taking matters into his own hands, not giving a sh*t what the Republicans think or want.That s the way we like it, Mr. President.
Keep up the good work.Watch President Obama s full address below:Featured image via screen capture