The Trump administration has brought to our attention to multiple tragedies of which we were previously unaware in their effort to justify The Donald s attempt to ban Muslims from entering the country first Kellyanne Conway s reminder of the totally real Bowling Green Massacre (her credibility was among the victims) that definitely happened, then Sean Spicer s Atlanta attack that was really real, and finally Donald Trump reminding us what s happening last night in Sweden.
Who would believe this?
Sweden!
Trump told the crowd at his first campaign rally for the 2020 election (that for some reason is happening a month into his presidency).
They took in large numbers, they re having problems like they never thought possible.
As it turns out, nothing actually happened in Sweden nothing that would in any way support Trump s Muslim ban, anyway.
A Swedish publication compiled a list of what went on in Sweden Friday night:So basically what s going on in Sweden right now is moose lovin .
Sweden?
Terror attack?
What has he been smoking?
Questions abound, former Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt tweeted in response to Trump s stupidity.Sweden?
Terror attack?
What has he been smoking?
Questions abound.
https://t.co/XWgw8Fz7tj Carl Bildt (@carlbildt) February 19, 2017Even Chelsea Clinton, daughter of The Donald s arch-nemesis and all-around badass, decided to have a bit of fun with the Idiot-in-Chief s Sweden flub.What happened in Sweden Friday night?
Did they catch the Bowling Green Massacre perpetrators?
Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) February 19, 2017 What happened in Sweden Friday night?
Did they catch the Bowling Green Massacre perpetrators?
Clinton tweeted.
Naturally, her take on the Sweden situation is quite popular:.
@ChelseaClinton we lost the Swedish Bikini team horrible tragedy Roland Scahill (@rolandscahill) February 19, 2017@ChelseaClinton It's not funny.
Four unicorns almost lost their lives.
FOUR!
Pray for Sweden.
Tony Posnanski (@tonyposnanski) February 19, 2017@ChelseaClinton I think so.
I hear it was unpresidented.
Jody Ahern Bundrick (@Jody_Bundrick) February 19, 2017@ChelseaClinton Je Suis Ikea.
E (@esheikh_) February 19, 2017@ChelseaClinton This just in photo of Swedish Terrorist!
pic.twitter.com/DPBGhsBXC8 Diane W (@BellaLuna_468) February 19, 2017@ChelseaClinton #lastnightinsweden carnage in this school pic.twitter.com/7az0gBIEjI Jenny Lee (@ironmite) February 19, 2017Donald Trump and his team of white supremacists, bigots, and swamp creatures must think we re idiots.Featured image via Getty Images (Mark Wilson/Stephanie Keith)/screengrab