Actor Morgan Freeman, beloved not just for his on-screen persona but also his silky smooth voice, has put his skills to good use with a powerful new ad for Hillary Clinton s campaign.Shot largely in black and white and titled All the Good, the ad spans the years from Clinton s origins: This church taught her to do all the good you can, for all the people you can, for as long as you can.
to her on the campaign trail.
She understands that this country can t reach it s potential, unless we all do.
And as ever, Freeman has an uncanny ability to make you sit up and listen regardless of the subject matter.And for Clinton fans (or fans of Morgan Freeman s voice), this ad is slated to be just one in a series that the actor will record for the Clinton campaign.
A longer version of the ad will also begin appearing on televisions across America later this month.Despite a few desperate conservatives trying to claim Freeman as their own, he has long established himself as a fierce advocate for Democrats.
Early in Obama s first term, Freeman slammed the Tea Party for the way he said they were intentionally trying to sabotage Obama based on his race.
The tea partiers who are controlling the Republican party their stated policy, publicly stated, is to do whatever it takes to see to it that Obama only serves one term, he tells Piers Morgan.
What underlines that?
Screw the country, we re going to do whatever we can to get this black man out of here.
In 2012, he lent his voice to Barack Obama s reelection campaign, with similarly powerful results.In contrast, Republican candidates have struggled to find celebrities willing to attach their names to campaigns.
Almost every other day, a conservative candidate is served with a cease-and-desist order for using the music of America s biggest pop icons.
It s left Republicans struggling to scrape the bottom of the barrel of D-listers.
While Sanders and Clinton pick up George Clooney and Susan Sarandon, Ted Cruz and Trump are literally squabbling over the family members of Duck Dynasty.And then there is whatever this is supposed to be:Waiter, I'll have what she's having.
RT @passantino: This has to be the best line from Palin s endorsement https://t.co/XtXE23SzYn Saeed Jones (@theferocity) January 20, 2016With celebrities like Sarah Palin, who needs Oscar winners like Morgan Freeman.
Right, Republicans?Feature image via Flickr