During presidential campaigns, it is pretty standard procedure for there to be a press corps that travels with the major party candidates.
However, last night, Donald Trump s press corps was late getting to his rally.
Instead of doing what any normal, reasonable candidate would do and telling the crowd to wait patiently for the press to arrive, Trump held the rally without them.
They got there 3 minutes and 28 seconds before the rally ended.
As if that weren t bad enough, Trump actually bragged about snubbing the press, and mocked them for their travel issues: I have really good news for you.
I just heard that the press is stuck on their airplane, they can t get here.
I love it.
They re trying to get here now, they re going to be about 30 minutes late.
They called us and said, Could you wait?
I said, Absolutely not, let s get going.
The media members on Twitter were not going to let Trump and his campaign get off that easy, though.
They took to Trump s own favorite social media platform and slammed the Trump campaign for allegedly screwing around with their travel situation, so that they would miss the rally.
They also blasted the candidate himself for not having the same sort of official press pool that Trump s Democratic rival Hillary Clinton and, indeed, every presidential candidate in modern history prior to Donald Trump has.
Here are just a few of those tweets, via The Hill:Trump doing this rally without his traveling press corps even here is an absurd joke.
Phil Mattingly (@Phil_Mattingly) September 16, 2016This week, Conway said Clinton treats the press like second class citizens.
Please note that Trump is speaking right now and we are on a bus Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) September 16, 2016Here's another view of Trump's traveling press corps as Trump is on stage in NH pic.twitter.com/xdIqIFrl8m Noah Gray CNN (@NoahGrayCNN) September 16, 2016And now apparently he's on stage mocking the fact that he started without the press arriving.
2/2 https://t.co/kABvyvUack Jeremy Diamond (@JDiamond1) September 16, 2016The traveling Trump press saw 3 minutes and 28 seconds of his rally in Laconia.
Nick Corasaniti (@NYTnickc) September 16, 2016This is disgraceful, but hardly surprising.
Trump hates the press.
In fact, he hates them so much that he has actually banned a multitude of media outlets from having press credentials to cover his rallies, just because he doesn t like what they have to say about him.
This is just another new low for Donald Trump and his travesty of a campaign.
Hopefully, the media keeps hounding him, and treats him just as badly as he treats them.Featured image via Mark Wallheiser/Getty Images