Ben Carson Dr. Ben Carson Dr. Ben Carson the brain surgeon has been tapped as one of Donald Trump s cabinet members.
Now, despite Carson s expertise being in medicine, Donald Trump has chosen Carson to head the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which is the agency that gives low-income families access to housing.Despite living in the inner city of New York for all of his life, Donald Trump has a long habit of conflating black people with the inner city.
Republicans in general have that habit.During the second presidential debate, Donald Trump was asked whether he could be a president to all the people in the United States.
He had a very specific answer: I would be a president for all of the people, African Americans, the inner cities, he replied.
Later in the debate, he spoke again of how he was going to help the African Americans, who lived in inner cities, suffering from high poverty rates, bad educational systems, and no jobs.Source: The AtlanticWell, it s simply not true.
Most African-Americans do not live in the inner city and most live above the poverty line, but that doesn t stop Trump and Republicans from their two dimensional view of African-Americans, which is likely the exact reason Trump chose Carson as his inner city spokesperson.
Carson is African-American, and the fact that he has literally no experience at doing anything remotely relevant to that job is completely beside the point.
You see, black people, according to Trump, are black before they are anything else even black brain surgeons.
Am I reading too much into the nomination?
Well, here are Trump s words: I am thrilled to nominate Dr. Ben Carson as our next Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Ben Carson has a brilliant mind and is passionate about strengthening communities and families within those communities, Trump is quoted as saying in a statement released by his transition team Monday.Source: Washington PostTo be fair, Carson did grow up in public housing.
Although, he turned his back on the inner cities and despite the fact that he wouldn t be where he is without government assistance, he, like so many Republicans, wants to deprive others of government assistance.And then there s the fact that he has no experience in the government, and even he acknowledged that he was too inexperienced for a position he might have actually been qualified for.
His name had been fielded for being in charge of the Department of Health and Human Services.
Carson is reported to have turned it down, citing his lack of government qualifications.So why is he suddenly qualified for HUD?
Well, it s likely because the Trump administration has no plans whatsoever to help those in need find housing.
Carson will be a figure head, but his skin is dark, so who better to tell poor people that they ll be screwed for the next four years?Featured image via Ty Wright/Getty Images.