Ted Nugent is a mentally unstable man with almost as many insecurities as guns.
His frequent rants run the gamut of violent and racist talking points.
He s threatened to kill Hillary Clinton.
He s threatened to kill President Obama.
There isn t a minority group that he hasn t tried to incite his rabid all-white, all-conservative fanbase into attacking (verbally or otherwise).But something is happening that may finally make Nugent shut the hell up.Following his latest racist rant, this time focused on Jewish liberals, calling them soulless sheep to the slaughter (and posting a picture of holocaust victims, just to make sure his low intelligence followers really got it), the backlash came not only from liberals who are constantly calling Nugent out for his disgusting views but also from the people who typically defend him: Fellow conservatives.Nugent must have assumed this was just another mundane backlash so he characteristically told his critics eat me.
He may want to rethink that.
Instead of just shouting at him on social media, they did something far more terrifying for the gun-obsessed lunatic: They are calling on the NRA to kick him out.Up until now, the NRA could be forgiven for having tolerated Nugent s excesses.
He is, after all, a rock star rather than a politician, and his passion for the Second Amendment has been admirable.
It takes all sorts to make a movement those who can offer the visceral case are just as important as those who can crunch the numbers and parse the laws.
But there is always a line somewhere, and Nugent has unapologetically leaped across it.As Media Matters documented, even far-right gun groups have spoken out against Nugent s latest anti-Semitic smears.
If the NRA had hoped to be able to weather this storm and continue to keep Nugent as one of the members of their board (yeah, he s a board member of the organization.
), it doesn t look like they are going to get any defense from their allies.
EVERYONE wants him gone.His haters were even more adamant.
The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence released a strong statement condemning Nugent and started a petition to have the NRA drop him from their ranks.
Tell the NRA: The repeated racist statements of NRA board member Ted Nugent are grossly offensive and intolerable.
Remove him from your Board of Directors.
Which probably terrifies Nugent who, underneath his tough talk, has always been a coward.For him, the NRA represents the last vestige of respectability.
As more and more of his former supporters distance themselves from his ugly behavior, he needs the NRA to be on his side.
Without them he will look like what he is: A has-been musician who needs serious psychiatric help.
He s not an ambassador for gun rights.
He s not a board member of a large organization.
Just a sad, angry racist shouting into an increasingly empty room.While it s frustrating to watch Nugent repeatedly slur minorities, it will feel extremely gratifying to watch one of these unhinged rants finally destroy the only thing he loves: His NRA membership card.Feature image via Flickr