Rudy Giuliani threw a hissy fit over Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards reaction to Donald Trump visiting the flood damage in his state, and Edwards called him out for it.On Friday, the former New York mayor who now forgets about 9/11 posted a statement on Twitter whining about Bel Edwards asking the Republican nominee to do something to help the victims of the flooding instead of just showing up to do a photo-op.Instead of following Gov.
Bel Edwards s advice, Trump proceeded to get that photo-op, which consisted of him handing out play-doh instead of real supplies such as food and water.But Giuliani criticized Bel Edwards for making such a request and said that reaction towards President Obama is not the same negative reaction President Bush received after Hurricane Katrina.Giuliani said that Trump showed true leadership by going to the flood ravaged state and then plugged his book in the same breath.Then he bragged about being the mayor of NYC during the September 11th attacks.Here s the full post via Twitter.Giuliani statement on Louisiana s governor criticizing Trump trip: During the September 11 attacks, I welcomed pic.twitter.com/wFDRW5qhyi Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) August 19, 2016On Sunday, Bel Edwards fired back by telling CNN s Dana Bash that there is not a double standard here.
I believe Mayor Giuliani got it completely wrong.
I have not been critical of Mr. Trump s visit.
I have tried not to comment because I don t want to get tied up in the politics of whether it s the president, whether it s Hillary Clinton or whether it s Donald Trump.
I have tried not to comment.
And the comments that I have made have been very reserved.
So I think he was off base there with that comment.
So I think he was off base there with that comment.
Bel Edwards went on to point out that the reason President Obama has not visited Baton Rouge yet is because he asked him to come next week instead.Here s the video via CNN.But Edwards explained why President Obama was right not to visit yet during an interview with Rachel Maddow on Thursday.
It is a major ordeal, they free up the interstate for him.
We have to take hundreds of local first responders, police officers, sheriffs, deputies and state troopers to provide security for that type of visit.
I would just as soon have those people engaged in the response rather than trying to secure the president.
So I d ask him to wait, if he would, another couple weeks.
So President Obama s presence would have been a major distraction and would have kept first responders from doing their jobs to help those in need.But that doesn t mean President Obama has done nothing like Republicans would have us believe.
Gov.
Edwards said on that point: I do want you to know, and your viewers to know, that within hours of me making a request for a federal declaration I got it from the president.
He called me.
I want you to know that I ve been speaking to Valerie Jarrett just about every day.
He dispatched the FEMA administrator to meet with me for an entire day.
Today I had the Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson.
We ve also had the four-star general who runs all of the guard for the country here today.
And that s in addition to FEMA workers who have been embedded in the state in preparation for the relief effort.President Bush was not so much criticized for not visiting as much as he was criticized for not being prepared and not doing enough to help the victims in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, a storm that took the lives of nearly 2,000 people.
FEMA was completely disorganized under Bush s watch.
But President Obama has been on top of this latest disaster in Louisiana since the beginning.So Giuliani is out of line for criticizing President Obama.
And he is out of line for criticizing Bel Edwards for making a reasonable request of Trump.
Louisiana needs help, not photo-ops.
Trump visited a Republican dominated area to make it look like he was universally welcomed in the state when it is clear that he wasn t. President Obama s presence would have only hindered the rescue and recovery effort.
And you know Republicans would have whined about that if he had visited.Featured image via screen capture