Right-wing provocateur, Neo-Nazi, all around douchebag and Breitbart News editor Milo Yiannopoulos is finally getting his comeuppance for being a terrible human being.
It seems that even the internet hellhole of misogynists, anti-Semites, racists, white supremacists, and other assorted bigots that is Breitbart has had enough of Milo since he came under fire for videos in which he openly defended pederasty.
These revelations got him banned from speaking at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), and now it seems that they may even cost him his job.The Hill is reporting that Milo s fellow employees at Breitbart are disgusted by his remarks, and a fair number of them are threatening to leave the company if Milo isn t given his walking papers.
An unnamed senior editor leaked to the Washingtonian that Milo has been a problem for some time now, and that this is the straw that breaks the camel s back for at least half a dozen Breitbart employees: The fact of the matter is that there s been so many things that have been objectionable about Milo over the last couple of years, quite frankly.
This is something far more sinister.
If the company isn t willing to act, there are at least half a dozen people who are willing to walk out over it.
Talking abut young boys and somehow seeking to ameliorate concerns over young boys relationships with older men I m pretty sure everyone in the company would vomit upon hearing these words.
What right-thinking person doesn t feel sick to their stomach when hearing something like that?
Granted, considering the filth that is printed at Breitbart and the types of people who frequent the place, this reaction to Milo s defense of the indefensible here is hardly something that redeems them.
But, at the end of the day, if Milo is shunned from polite society and has all of his platforms taken away, it s better for society as a whole.
If he s too much for Breitbart, chances are he s too much for any other outlet or news network as well.UPDATE: It is also being reported that Simon & Schuster will not be publishing Milo s book, Dangerous.Simon & Schuster is canceling the publication of 'Dangerous' by Milo Yiannopoulos "After careful consideration."
Full story coming soon.
Publishers Weekly (@PublishersWkly) February 20, 2017Here is the statement from the publisher:Statement: After careful consideration @simonschuster and its @threshold_books have cancelled publication of Dangerous by Milo Yiannopoulos (((Adam Rothberg))) (@AdamRothberg) February 20, 2017Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images