It s been several months, and hundreds of hours of rallies, since the last time scientists took a hard look at Donald Trump s intelligence, and the new data did not help the Republican front runner look any smarter.In a new analysis of the language Trump uses, scientists discovered that he is talking to his supporters at a 5th grade level the lowest of any candidate in the race.The study, done by the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, seems to confirm what an earlier, albeit less scientific, analysis by the Boston Globe found: Donald Trump has either the language development of an 11-year-old child, or he thinks his supporters do.The results can often times be laughably bad.
Here, for example, is an answer Trump gave to Jimmy Kimmel when asked to defend his call to ban Muslims from the United States.
He falls into a Rubio-esque repeat of the same two or three meaningless sentences: Look, we have people coming into our country that are looking to do tremendous harm.
You look at the two look at Paris.
Look what happened in Paris.
I mean, these people, they did not come from Sweden, okay?
Look at what happened in Paris.
Look at what happened last week in California, with, you know, 14 people dead.
Other people going to die, they re so badly injured.
And when he gets flustered, not only does his grammar go out the window, but so does his ability to spell.
He winds up shooting off angry tweets like this one which contain astoundingly misspelled words.
"one of the dummer people on television" pic.twitter.com/JP6zZpxelb James Cook (@JamesLiamCook) June 25, 2015@BigDaveBets @realDonaldTrump you know there a thousand screenshots just like this one lol.
pic.twitter.com/En6k9dwS6B Ricky Spanisssssssh (@micahsgrrl) February 26, 2016The study also looked at past presidents to compare how the new crop stacks up.
The researchers found that while most candidates were around the average, there were two notable exceptions Donald Trump and George W. Bush circling the very bottom.George W. Bush, of course, is well known for having been one of America s least intellectual presidents.
He was voted into office largely because he was a guy Republicans wanted to have a beer with and not because he had the brain power to effectively do the job.
In fact, his legendary stupidity was used as a selling point.
He wasn t an elitist because he didn t (or couldn t) use big words and never excelled in school.
His opponent, Al Gore, his supporters claimed was too smart.
A major turn off for them.Trump seems to be banking on the same anti-intellectual thinking.
The simpler the words, the more they adore him.
What his fans don t remember is that Bush s ability to be fun in a bar didn t translate into a good presidency.
He left America in an historic recession and multiple wars.
A bit more thinking would have been nice.Featured image via Flickr