Donald Trump seriously thought having the hardest job on Earth would be easy.
LOL!After 100 days on the job, many of which Trump spent at his lavish Florida resort playing golf, Trump stated during an interview with Reuters that he thought the presidency would be an easy job that he could just sail through.Trump complained about how his current job requires him to do much more work than he is accustomed to doing and waxed nostalgic about his life before taking over the White House.
I loved my previous life.
I had so many things going, Trump said.
This is more work than in my previous life.
I thought it would be easier.
This demonstrates just how woefully unprepared Trump was to become president.
And it certainly shows.After all, Trump s administration has been a complete failure only three months in.His unconstitutional executive actions on immigration have been blocked by federal judges.
His effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act went down in flames, much to the relief of millions of Americans.
His environmental record is a disaster.
He still denies science and is cutting funding to scientific agencies and organizations.
He has alienated our allies while continuing to praise Russia and Putin.
He is embroiled in an ever-growing scandal.
And he has turned America into a laughingstock around the world.And that s just the tip of the iceberg as Trump threatens World War III over North Korea and a government shutdown looms because he refuses to negotiate with Democrats.The only president who has had an arguably worse first 100 days is William Henry Harrison and that s only because he died 30 days into his presidency.
But at least he didn t embarrass the nation and destroy it from within.The fact is that being president is a tough job.
It s also a lonely job.
There s a reason why presidents go grey during their years in office.
It s a stressful job.
Every decision made affects the nation and the world.
Maybe if Trump spent less time golfing, tweeting, and watching cable news he would know that being president means working with Congress, including Democrats.
Instead, Trump would rather act like a dictator and just sign executive orders between tee times and whine when he doesn t get his way.Clearly, Trump doesn t know what hard work is.Featured Image: Tom Pennington/Getty Images