The State Department has a special cable designed so that employees can formally protest a policy, and this one is the largest ever.Over the weekend, chaos swept the nation and the globe after Donald Trump signed an unconstitutional executive order banning travelers from seven countries from entering the United States, even if they have green cards.
Leaders around the world condemned the action and massive protests occurred.After acting Attorney General Sally Yates was fired for refusing to defend the unconstitutional order, Trump and his team said that anyone who disagrees with Trump s policy should quit their jobs.That didn t sit very well with many State Department employees, who proceeded to use the special cable to voice their dissent against Trump s policy.According to the Wall Street Journal,People familiar with the dissent cable said the document had approximately 1,000 signatures.
The State Department maintains a special dissent channel as a formal and confidential vehicle for officials to express alternative views.The cable is the largest such protest ever, said Hannah Gurman, a professor at New York University who wrote a book about dissent at the State Department.
Ms. Gurman said the second largest, relating to Syria, was one signed by 51 State Department officials last June.That s right.
The State Department protest of Trump s ban is the largest ever recorded and literally dwarfed the protest against one of President Obama s policies last year.This is a pretty big deal and shows just how unpopular Trump is at the State Department.Clearly, a large percentage of the 25,000 employees at the State Department do not like what Trump is doing.And they have every reason to be opposed to Trump.Trump has been making a mockery of diplomacy and our foreign policy long before the election in November.
And ever since that day Trump has been making a mess by overturning decades of policy that created stability and security and built alliances.Trump is threatening our allies and moving our nation to the brink of World War III.
He is abandoning American values in favor of fear and hate.
And Russia s influence over the State Department makes things even more dangerous.Our country faces a threat unlike any we have ever faced before.
This threat is from within and he is sitting in the White House.
Every employee at the State Department and every citizen in this nation should be horrified by what Trump is doing.
And we need to do something about it before he destroys everything we hold dear.Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images