Real-life Saturday morning cartoon villain Donald Trump kicked off his day with a delusional rant about President Obama.
In what appears to be a effort to shift focus away from the fact that his administration has more ties to Russia than a Moscow bondage club by leveling some rather interesting accusations at the right wing s favored bogeyman.
Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
Trump tweeted after reading that it s totally true on white supremacist propaganda mill Breitbart.
Is it legal for a sitting President to be wire tapping a race for president prior to an election?
Turned down by court earlier.
A NEW LOW!
I d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election!
said Trump, adding that this is Nixon/Watergate.
While he is correct that this will end for him very much like Watergate did for Nixon, it seems that he might not want to advertise that he was tapped.
Congressman Ted Lieu of California pointed out via Twitter:Mr. President: If there was a wiretap at Trump Tower, that means a fed judge found probable cause of crime which means you are in deep shit.
https://t.co/i7dUMtHXmo Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) March 4, 2017Shortly after, President Obama responded to Trump s asinine claim via spokesman Kevin Lewis: A cardinal rule of the Obama Administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice.
As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen.
Any suggestion otherwise is simply false.
Earlier Saturday, Obama s former deputy national security adviser, Ben Rhodes pointed out that even if our last legitimate President wanted to he could not order wiretaps of citizens:No President can order a wiretap.
Those restrictions were put in place to protect citizens from people like you.
https://t.co/lEVscjkzSw Ben Rhodes (@brhodes) March 4, 2017Trump is really worried about something.
Whatever could it be?Featured image via screengrab