America has become Entitlement Nation where thousands line up for housing is this a need or just a want?
Those in need like the disabled or our veterans are the ones Section 8 was meant for, yet able bodied Americans started to line up TWO DAYS before the voucher giveaway.
Are thousands upon thousands of people REALLY in need of free housing?
My answer came in the form of a Facebook post that clearly defined for me the fact that people use these entitlements when they REALLY don t need them:The comments below this picture were very telling this is the norm for many Americans:Laura- That s awesome!
Lasuzy- Wow..you should of seen the line here in Modesto Ca it never ended,lucky there was no numbers,so I assume all in line got a application its been 5 years ago,still waiting to be called Karen- Wow back when i had applied for just the LA County it took 17 years for them to send me the card telling me my packet was coming.
But by the time my packet came i was already in housing out here in San Bernardino county and had been for some years Ray- My BROTHER there going to wait a long time I ve been on the waiting list 8 years.
GODBLESS.
Florence- I wish I can get section 8 so I can do more for my grand sons I raise .it s hard But thank God that he provides every day Jennie- Oh cool, hopefully they call all those people back quicker than LA does SOUNDS LIKE THIS HUD/SECTION 8 HOUSING IS A RACKET FOR THOSE WHO FEEL ENTITLED TO THE FREEBIES!Thousands of people lined up Monday morning for the chance to apply for low-cost, government-subsidized housing in the city of Norwalk.Officials with the City of Norwalk Housing Authority began handing out applications at 8 a.m. at the Norwalk Arts and Sports Complex.
Roughly 3,000 applications for the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Program waiting list were scheduled to be distributed through Sept. 24 or until all applications were handed out, city officials said.
By just past 7 a.m., a line of people could be seen going all around what appeared to be nearly a city block, according to aerial reports: A fact sheet distributed by the city prior to the event warned prospective applicants that it may be many months or several years before we are able to assist you with your rent.
This is not an emergency program.
The city of Norwalk has a population of just under 107,000 as of a 2013 census.HOUSING EXPENDITURES HAVE SKYROCKETED:THIS IS FROM 2005 SO JUST IMAGINE WHAT IT IS NOW!
Via: CBS