We know Trump is a sexual predator.
We know he s racist.
We know he welches on contracts.
We know he flies off the handle at the slightest hint of an insult.
We know his foreign policy will get us into war with the entire planet, and his other policy positions are as solid as fresh Jell-O; all of which could destroy us even without a war.
We know he lies about pretty much everything.
Yet, for inexplicable reasons, people still support him, and that s incredibly maddening.However, many people don t know what to say when a Trump supporter says, Why shouldn t I vote for him?
Hillary s the devil!
Hillary Derangement Syndrome isn t a good enough reason to vote for Trump, though, especially since there s no proof of all those accusations of crimes, whatever the right-wing We just KNOW she s a criminal!
crowd says.
Here s a long list of reasons why Trump has neither the mentality, nor the temperament, to be President.Trump denied housing to black people and lied to black applicants about apartment availability in violation of the Fair Housing Act.He stereotyped black people as welfare recipients by complaining that the government was trying to force him to rent to welfare recipients in the wake of this scandal.Casino bosses felt compelled to order black people off the floors when Donald and Ivana would visit.Trump ran smear campaigns against the Central Park Five, a group consisting of four black males and one Latino male, who were sent to prison for a brutal rape they didn t commit.
He still smears them.Trump actually said, Black guys counting my money!
I hate it, and I think that the guy is lazy.
It s probably not his fault, because laziness is a trait in blacks.
It really is.
He wanted The Apprentice: White People vs. Black People .He was a major player in the birther lies about President Obama, including claiming Obama was a secret Muslim.
He believes well-educated black people have advantages over well-educated white people in the jobs market.He said that Obama hadn t been very good for the thugs who are so happily and openly destroying Baltimore.
He openly praised some of his supporters for beating up a Black Lives Matter protester at one of his rallies.He said black people live in poverty, with terrible schools, and then asked them what they had to lose voting for him.He called Mexicans criminals and rapists.
He denigrated Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who s presiding over one of the Trump U. cases, saying his Mexican heritage meant he was biased against Trump.He said Mexicans and other immigrants were killers and rapists.He accused Mexico of sending their bad people up to us to deal with.In response to questions about these comments, he said, Well, somebody s doing the raping, Don!
I mean somebody s doing it!
Who s doing the raping?
Who s doing the raping?
He made a very similar comment about Muslims about 9/11: Well, somebody s blowing us up.
Somebody s blowing up buildings, and somebody s doing lots of bad stuff.
He said I love Hispanics!
in a tweet of himself eating from a taco bowl in Trump Tower (this is like eating a watermelon or fried chicken and saying, I love black people!
).He called supporters who beat up a homeless Hispanic man passionate.
He lied about Native Americans having a well-documented history of criminal activity to stop them from building a casino that would compete with his casinos in Atlantic City.He told the House Native American Affairs Subcomittee that the Mashantucket Pequot Nation, a Native American community in Connecticut near where he wanted to open a casino don t look like Indians to me.
They don t look like Indians to Indians.
He s repeatedly called Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who has Cherokee ancestry, Pocahontas.
He s told Jews that he s a negotiator, just like them, and doubled down on that stereotype that Jews control the world s business dealings by saying, Is there anyone who doesn t renegotiate deals in this room?
He said Jews weren t going to support him because he doesn t want their money.
They re going to want their own politician.
He wanted to rent apartments only to Jews and executives.
He tweeted an anti-Semitic picture of Hillary Clinton.He wants to ban all Muslims from entering the U.S., and force the Muslims already living here to register and wear some kind of ID.He said there s no choice but to close down mosques in the U.S.When attacking the Khans the Gold Star family who lost their son in Iraq and blasted him from the stage of the DNC he mocked both Khizr and his wife, Ghazala, for their culture by saying, If you look at his wife, she was standing there.
She had nothing to say.
She probably, maybe she wasn t allowed to have anything to say.
You tell me.
He will not condemn the white nationalists/supremacists that make up the core of his base, and claims not to know who some of them, like David Duke, are.
He wants to punish women who get abortions.He d shut down the U.S. government if it would help get Planned Parenthood defunded.He believes sexual assault in the military is the inevitable result of putting men and women together.He believes pregnancy is an inconvenience to business.He believes that women who are sexually harassed at work should find another career.
He even says his own daughter should do that.He bragged about sexually assaulting and harassing women with Billy Bush on a bus for Access Hollywood.
The women who won on The Apprentice did so largely on their sex appeal.He openly talked about the size of his female contestants breasts and which ones he d like to have sex with, and wanted women he worked with on the show to wear shorter skirts and bare more cleavage.He asked the men on The Apprentice to rate the women there on their physical attributes.He s told women they wouldn t have their jobs if they weren t beautiful, and fired women for losing their looks.He painted women who won t sign pre-nups as calculating gold-diggers, and accused women in general of being nothing more than manipulators of men in his book, The Art of the Comeback.He believes women enable their husbands philandering (so Melania does, too, we suppose).He admitted to ogling Hillary Clinton during the 2nd general election debate, saying he wasn t impressed.
He loves lines in movies that demean women, such as, Bitch, be quiet, from Pulp Fiction.
He s joked that if Ivanka wasn t his daughter, he d be dating her.He s talked about Ivanka as a piece of ass.
He told two 14-year old girls that he d be dating them in a couple of years.He said something similar about a 10-year old girl.He wasn t afraid to say that a 12-year old Paris Hilton was hot.He thinks walking into a dressing room full of undressed, underage girls is perfectly okay.He said that an 18-year old Lindsay Lohan is deeply troubled and therefore probably great in bed.
How come the deeply troubled women, you know, deeply, deeply troubled, they re always the best in bed?
He got into a months-long feud with Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly because she dared to ask him about his sexism in the 1st GOP primary debate.He s stalked and harassed other female reporters who were negative about him.He said, Women, you have to treat em like shit.
He pitched a show he wanted to call Lady or a Tramp?
It was to be a reality show about out-of-control party girls, and whether they could be turned into ladies.
He called a breastfeeding mother disgusting because she needed a break from a court deposition to pump her breasts.He has a history of calling women ugly, slobs, pigs, dogs, bimbos, Miss Piggy, and other misogynistic terms.He keeps claiming that polls show that he won the first two debates in landslides (the credible polls show nothing of the sort)He claimed he never told people to check out Alicia Machado s sex tape (he literally said check out [her] sex tape )He says Hillary has no childcare plan (it s been available for months)He said that Obama and Hillary are the founders of ISIS (no, not even close)He claimed to have sent investigators to Hawaii to investigate Obama s birth certificate, and said that they couldn t believe what they were finding (har de har har)He said that the NFL sent him a letter complaining about the debate schedule (the NFL stated they did no such thing)He claimed that Ted Cruz s father was seen with Lee Harvey Oswald when President John.
F. Kennedy was shot (nobody has been able to corroborate this)He blasted the 2016 omnibus spending bill as funding a flood of undocumented immigrants (it strengthened border security)He ran an ad claiming to show Mexicans streaming across our border (the footage of people streaming across a border was actually from Morocco)He claimed thousands of Arabs in New Jersey were cheering in the streets as the Twin Towers fell (he s the only one who ever saw this)He keeps saying he can t release his tax returns because of an audit (the IRS says otherwise)He said he has a fiduciary duty to his businesses and his family to pay as little tax as possible (no such fiduciary duty exists since these are personal returns, not corporate returns)He claims it was Hillary who started the birther conspiracy (she didn t, here s who did)He says he never supported the war in Iraq (he said on Howard Stern s show that he supported it)He believes Tim Kaine oversaw a huge increase in undocumented immigration as governor of Virginia (such immigration was flat under Kaine)He claimed Hillary would print instant work permits for undocumented immigrants (they wouldn t be instant, and such permits would go to foreign graduate students already here legally)He claims NATO created a new terrorism division because of him (he had nothing to do with it)He said he saw a top secret video of Iranian officials offloading $400 million from an American plane (no such tape ever existed)He says Hillary filibustered away legislation that would have reformed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the bill never even faced a cloture vote)He s said we ve got no system to vet refugees (we have an extensive system to vet them)He said that the wives and families of the 9/11 hijackers were sent back to Saudi Arabia two days before the attacks for safety (total baloney)He claimed that Trump University had an A rating from the Better Business Bureau (not really; it did once, but its final rating was a D-)He accused Ted Cruz of having a double passport (there s no such thing as a double passport, and Cruz renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2014)He said that Syrian Christians can t come into the U.S. (we have no religious test for refugees)He sued the Department of Justice for defamation after they sued him for violating the Fair Housing ActHe has threatened multiple outlets, including with lawsuits and even sent cease-and-desist letters, for making him look bad.
Such outlets include:He threatened to sue Louisiana delegates for standing by Ted Cruz during the primaries.He also threatened to sue Ted Cruz over alleged voter fraud in Iowa after losing the primary there.He threatened to sue Cruz over a negative political ad.He wanted to sue Bill Maher after Maher bet $5 million for Trump to prove he wasn t the spawn of his mother having sex with an orangutan.
He tried to sue reporter Timothy O Brien for questioning his wealth in a 2005 biography called TrumpNation.
One of his advisors said, Every critic, every detractor, will have to bow down to President Trump.
He vowed to get revenge on Republicans who turned their backs on him following the revelations that he s a sexual predator.He threatened to start a super-Pac in 2018 for the sole purpose of taking down both Ted Cruz and John Kasich for perceived slights during and after the primaries.He believes that his poll numbers are falling apart because of an international conspiracy involving Hillary, Democrats, banks, and the media, rather than because of anything he s done.He believes Hillary has corrupted the FBI so they would absolve her of wrongdoing in her email scandal.He believes that immigration officials are allowing undocumented immigrants into the country specifically to vote for Hillary.He thinks that Hillary conspired with the debate organizers to hold the first two debates on NFL game days, in an effort to ensure fewer people saw him on the debate stages.He believes that the entire election is rigged because Hillary isn t in prison, and has repeatedly threatened to jail her after he s elected.There s a strong possibility that his entire circus of a campaign is his revenge on a political class that s been laughing at him for 30 years.He repeatedly and viciously attacked a Gold Star family who angered him from the stage of the DNC.He said he wanted to hit other DNC speakers so hard, their heads will spin.
He wants to open up libel laws after he s elected for the sole purpose of suing the press for saying bad things about him.The most well known scam is probably Trump University, in which students paid ever growing amounts to learn secrets that didn t exist from instructors that Trump didn t even know, despite his claims.He has funneled millions from his campaign to his own businesses, legally, but with clear intent to line his own pockets with campaign funds.He used Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection to insulate himself from the fallout of his failed business ventures.
He claims he was just playing the game.
He tried to force tenants on Central Park South out of their rent-controlled apartments so he could knock the building down and build expensive luxury condos.He used undocumented Polish immigrants to help build his signature Trump Tower, in New York.
Part of the purpose of this was to avoid paying union pensions and other compensation.He had his father swoop in on one of his troubled Atlantic City casinos and buy $3.5 million worth of chips instead of getting a bank loan, which was a violation of New Jersey gaming laws.When he dabbled in the condo-hotel business, condo buyers often purchased from him because of his allegedly good name, and a belief that they d deal directly with him, only to find that he was barely involved.He has refused to pay his contractors, along with workers such as plumbers and even dishwashers, in his buildings.
His excuses are along the lines of bad workmanship, but other employees admitted in court that some managers determined painters had already been paid enough, so he refused to pay any more.He bought up tons of his own books to drive their sales up.His non-profit organization, the Trump Foundation, can t legally solicit donations because it never filed the requisite paperwork through the State of New York.
Records show that the foundation didn t always make the donations it claimed.
It s also implicated in some of the donations to states attorneys general that were initiating investigations into him.His businesses have had business in Cuba, in one way or another, for at least the last 20 years, in violation of the embargo.
He claims this isn t true.How anybody can vote for Trump, knowing all of this, is beyond the realm of sanity.
Trump is an evil, disgusting liar of a piece of dirty pond scum.
He has no business being anywhere near the White House.
Ever.Featured image by Sarah Rice via Getty Images