The nightmare that is Donald Trump just keeps barreling on, and there seems to be no end in sight.
In fact, it seems that he just might become the GOP nominee for the 2016 presidential election.
There are endless reasons that this is beyond scary, and he has given us yet another.Earlier this week, Trump showed just how ignorant he is of the law in a bumbling interview with George Stephanopoulos on ABC s This Week.
The host didn t go easy on Trump in a conversation about the Supreme Court and the appointment of justices, and Trump showed himself to be utterly unqualified to be in any position of political power, much less president of the United States and leader of the free world.
Here is a transcript of the exchange, courtesy of The New Civil Rights Movement:STEPHANOPOULOS: Let s talk about some of the issues.
Judges.
What kind of judges will you appoint?
Will they be conservative?What does that mean to you and how will you ensure it?TRUMP: Well, first of all, we have a lot of judges that have to be appointed because we have a lot of openings in terms of judges.
And I m very happy about that, to be honest, because I think, you know, appointing judges is a very important and a very, frankly, a very, very important element of what we re doing.STEPHANOPOULOS: But Ted Cruz says he s going to appoint rock rib conservatives with a paper trail.
What are you going to do?TRUMP: Well, I m going to appoint conservative judges.
I m going to appoint people that have great reputations, that are great with the legal profession STEPHANOPOULOS: Like?TRUMP: Well, I can say like any you know a judge who is a totally underrated and not spoken is Justice Thomas.
I mean, if you look at if you look at some of the judges that we have like on the Supreme Court, Justice Roberts turned out to be a nightmare for conservatives.
I mean STEPHANOPOULOS: But how are you going to TRUMP: Wait, let me first say.
Ted Cruz, was the one that really wanted Justice Roberts to go on the Supreme Court.
You know that, right?
Have you heard that?STEPHANOPOULOS: So, how are you going to make sure you don t get a Justice Roberts?
Are you going to ask your appointees TRUMP: Well, excuse me, excuse me, how are they going to make sure?
Bush appointed him.
And Cruz was the biggest advocate.
Cruz fought like hell to get Justice Roberts in there.
Justice Roberts turned out to be an absolute disaster.
He turned out to be an absolute disaster because he gave us Obamacare.
So, you tell me, ask Cruz, why did he push STEPHANOPOULOS: I m asking you.
How are you going to make sure?TRUMP: No, I m asking you, why did he push so hard to have a judge who has absolutely set the conservative movement back and said everything STEPHANOPOULOS: When I interview him, I ll ask him.
How you re going to make sure you don t get betrayed by your appointees.TRUMP: I will study it carefully.
I will work with people that I respect, conservative people, and we ll appoint judges that will be good.
And I don t think I ll have any catastrophic appointment like Justice Roberts, which was really more than anybody else, pushed by Cruz and Bush.With this level of incompetency on full display for all to see, Trump went on Fox News Sunday to redeem himself on the same issue and this time, he did what every Republican does when trying to woo audiences and cover up for mistakes: he turned the discussion to those Fox viewers hate the most: LGBT people.
In fact, Trump says that if he is elected president, the justices on his Supreme Court will be those who oppose marriage equality, and he would find a way to have them throw out the Obergefell v. Hodges decision that made equal marriage the law of the land.First, Trump dodged the question, simply telling host Chris Wallace: They have ruled on it.
I wish it was done by the states.
Wallace didn t let Trump off the hook though, and plowed on, finally forcing Trump to say to the conservative audience on the issue of justices who would overturn the marriage equality decision: I would strongly consider that, yes.
There you have it, folks.
We knew Trump was a bigot, but he had never come out and said he d actively work to roll back LGBT right on this level.
Not surprising at all, though.
Just another reason to make sure his fantasy of ruling America never becomes a reality.Featured image from Gage Skidmore/Flickr