Trump s team is working very hard to accommodate the Narcissist in Chief on everything, up to and including how he will, or won t, be more responsible with his tweeting.
Sean Spicer, Trump s pick for White House press secretary, actually championed Trump s approach to disseminating information via Twitter by calling it a direct pipeline to the American people.
Spicer also played up the results Trump gets when he tweets.Not everyone likes or appreciates this, and Trump has proven that his use of Twitter, now that he s actually been elected, is dangerous in several ways.
Senator Chuck Schumer, the incoming Senate Minority Leader, absolutely destroyed Trump in a speech about it today: So, Mr. President, the issues facing this country are many These issues are too important for mere words.
Our challenge is too entrenched for mere tweeting.
Making America great again requires more than 140 characters per issue.
With all due respect, America cannot afford a Twitter presidency.
We have real challenges and we have real needs to get things done.
And many Americans are afraid, Mr. President-elect, that instead of rolling up your sleeves and forging serious policies, for you, Twitter suffices.
In other words, Schumer just said what we re all thinking: Trump needs to buckle down instead of playing around on social media while avoiding real work.
The presidency is a serious job and requires a serious head.To deal with the issues that Schumer lists in his speech creating jobs, raising incomes, making college and healthcare affordable, rebuilding our infrastructure, making trade laws work for American workers, keeping Americans safe from violence and terrorism, and taking care of our vets Trump actually has to work.
He can t fuck around while everyone else tries to do his job for him.
That s something he doesn t seem to get.Trump won t like any of this especially since he recently said he likes Schumer more than many Congressional Republicans.
Trump no doubt expects return favors for daring to say that.Trump uses Twitter to brag about things he s done, and also about things he hasn t done.
He also uses it to blast individual companies for not doing exactly what he wants, when he wants, and sends their stocks tumbling.
One of these days, those tumbles won t be temporary and he ll actually bankrupt someone with a single tweet.And that s assuming he doesn t get us into a nuclear war via his damned Twitter account.
Schumer is right.
We can t afford a Twitter presidency.
We can t afford a president who does nothing and claims credit for every good thing that happens via Twitter.
If Trump doesn t step up to the plate, someone else will have to.Watch this segment of Schumer s speech in full below:.
@SenSchumer: America cannot afford a Twitter presidency.
Watch his complete remarks here: https://t.co/jaQiaVstYx pic.twitter.com/sVovDH72Lf CSPAN (@cspan) January 3, 2017Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images