The Republican National Convention got off to a rocky start on Monday.
The evening portion opened with what else but Benghazi.
Patricia Smith, who s son, Sean Smith, was killed that fateful night in Libya, spoke at the RNC.
This should have been a big deal to the presumptive nominee, but Trump is a narcissist.Trump is ever so worried about Benghazi, but apparently not enough to decide not to interrupt this grieving mother s big moment by calling into Fox News for a live interview smack dab in the middle of her speech.
MSNBC and CNN continued to cover Smith s emotional remarks, but Fox cut away from her to broadcast Trump s interview.What did he have to say that was so important?
Not much.
He gave a brief preview of what he plans to say on Thursday night when he accepts the GOP nomination, promising a fairly lengthy speech that will cover many themes one of them is law and order.
O Reilly asked if he intended to discuss the recent police killings that have taken place in Baton Rouge and Dallas, and Trump said that he would definitely be talking about this issue.Of course.
It s a big issue; it s a horrible issue; and it s going to be a very important one.
It s called law and order.
We want law and order.When he was asked about the Black Lives Matter movement, Trump said that some of the protesters are essentially calling death to the police, and that s unacceptable.
He promised that if he makes it into the White House he will look into it very seriously.
O Reilly pressed him on just what that meant, and Trump said that he would perhaps talk with the attorney general about it or do something, but at a minimum, we re going to have to be watching.
Meanwhile, Patricia Smith was publicly mourning the death of her son at the RNC, slamming Hillary Clinton for her role in Benghazi.
Benghazi!
This has been the GOP s favorite witch hunt for years, but Trump thinks it is more important to talk about what he is going to talk about?
Really?
No narcissism there.
Nope.
None at all.You can watch the interview here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=USE4T27je0U]Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images