Donald Trump s days in the White House could be numbered if Republicans stop denying reality.On Thursday, Trump delivered an insane press conference in which he spewed a string of lies and bragged about how many electoral votes he received.He repeatedly claimed that the media pushes fake news and openly praised conservative outlets like Fox News for kissing his ass.Overall, Trump demonstrated once again that he is totally unfit to hold the office he occupies and that is why lawmakers are actively pursuing ways to kick him out of the White House before he does something even crazier.Earlier this week, Rep. Earl Blumenauer called for a congressional review to explore the constitutional process to remove an unstable person from the presidency.
It s not normal behavior, Blumenauer said.
I don t know anybody in a position of responsibility that doesn t know if they re being rained on, and nobody I work with serially offers up verifiably false statements on an ongoing basis.
And that s why Rep. Ted Lieu is going to introduce a bill to require a psychiatrist work at the White House.Because if Trump is mentally unfit to be president (He is.)
then the American people have a right to know and he should be removed from office so he can t harm anyone else or this nation ever again.
I am not a mental health professional, so I don t know in terms of any sort of medical expertise on this, Lieu said in defense of the bill.
But I do see and hear the same things that other people see and hear, and a lot of people have concluded that what s going on is not normal.
So what do I do with that as a member of Congress?
Anyone who can launch 4,000 nuclear weapons in minutes absolutely should be questioned on any matter related to their physical and mental health.
Exactly.
Trump is so unstable and predictable that he could literally launch a nuclear strike any time over the smallest slight.
The fact that random guests at the Mar-a-Lago parties can take pictures with the guy who carries the nuclear football is also worrying.Even Republicans think Trump s behavior is disturbing even if they do refuse to admit that he should be kicked out of office.Rep.
Mike Simpson told The Hill that, The behavior is somewhat disturbing, but thinks it s a stretch to question Trump s mental and emotional stability.So the question is how much more proof do Republicans need before they admit that Trump is dangerous and needs to go?
Because the fact that they are willing to defend him after all the insanity and chaos we have seen in the White House so far makes one wonder if they are mentally and emotionally stable enough to be congressmen.A Republican judge was brave enough to call for Trump s impeachment earlier this week.
Republicans in Congress would be wise to listen to him.If President Obama had acted like Trump is acting they would have moved to impeach him on the first day.
America has already put up with four weeks of Trump s bullshit and it s only getting scarier.It s time for Republicans to recognize the reality of the situation and do what s best for the country instead of what s best for the Republican Party.
And that means Trump should be impeached immediately.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images