There s no doubt about it: Trump and his campaign are in full meltdown mode.
If he were a nuclear power plant, he d be Chernobyl s number four reactor in the early stages of its spectacularly horrific failure.Panicked Republicans are openly calling for the RNC to pull Trump s funding and send it into down-ticket races.
Trump himself, despite being a narcissistic jagoff, is starting to beg for help in places like Ohio and, oddly enough, Utah.And Time has captured everything about this in one beautifully accurate cover:Trump should hate this Time magazine cover, but he ll probably hang it in his office https://t.co/nXe6GuTZ4h pic.twitter.com/u6wAyvBO75 Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) August 12, 2016Time has gone into some depth on what s happened in Trump s camp.
They go beyond listing the obvious, like the thinly veiled threat to Hillary Clinton, his bizarrely ridiculous claim that Obama founded ISIS (on which he later doubled down), his childish feud with a Gold Star family, and his equally childish refusal to endorse Paul Ryan, John McCain and Kelly Ayotte in their re-election bids, among other things.He s now anywhere from six to fifteen points behind Hillary nationally in the polls, and trails her badly in several key swing states.
His atrocious approach to running for President isn t just costing him deep-red Utah, it s also throwing other traditionally red states, like Georgia, into play.Time points out, correctly, that Trump doesn t understand that the people who attend and cheer at his rallies aren t going to be the people who decide this election.
There s a solid chance that he s incapable of understanding that his ego won t let him.
In Jacksonville, he actually said: I don t know why we re not leading by a lot.
He could stand to look in the mirror, but he needs a magic mirror to see the truth.
He still thinks he s infallible, and that the turnouts at his rallies, along with his Twitter supporters, are accurate indicators of how the country as a whole sees him.
So he looks at the polls and finds himself baffled at how he could possibly be losing.After all, he only tells the truth (pardon us while we laugh hysterically).For Hillary, this is awesome news.
She needs the next 90 days to be all about Trump and his meltdown, and that s what s happening.
Trump may love the spotlight, but he doesn t like the spotlight to be so negative.
Time has him on their cover, but in a very negative and unflattering light.In short, they ve highlighted a meltdown he s only now beginning to realize, if not understand.
And when he finally comes to terms with it, his ego will feel nothing but total humiliation.Featured image by Joe Raedle/Getty Images