The inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump is only a week away, and many of us are still having a really hard time accepting the fact that an erratic, corrupt businessman and former reality television star will be leading the country soon.Trump s inauguration isn t a pleasant thing to discuss for most of us.
The majority of Americans want nothing to do with it.
Not only have most celebrities refused to perform for Trump, but the parade has been shortened thanks to the lack of interest.
Trump s inauguration is going to be a depressing day for most Americans, especially considering that the majority voted AGAINST him.
However, there is one beautiful thing we should be very grateful for, and that s the fact that Trump and his supporters are going to be terribly outnumbered.Trump s big day isn t going to be ruined merely because no one wants to sing for him.
Instead of being surrounded by praise, he s instead going to be greeted by an insane amount of courageous protesters, and it will be a harsh reminder that he doesn t deserve this position, and he has the lowest approval rating in modern history.The numbers are staggering.
It turns out, there will NINE TIMES more busloads of protesters than supporters.
As PoliticusUSA reports: Protesters have reserved six times more parking permits for buses (1,800) for the Women s March on Washington than Trump supporters have requested for the inauguration.
NBC4 in Washington, D.C. stated: Councilmember Charles Allen told News4 about 200 permits were requested for the inauguration on Friday, Jan. 20.
The city has received about 1,800 permits for the following day, Jan. 21, when thousands are expected to attend the Women s March on Washington in protest of President-elect Donald Trump.
The Women s March on Washington has a message for Trump, his corrupt administration, and the Republicans who are threatening our human rights and freedoms: In the spirit of democracy and honoring the champions of human rights, dignity, and justice who have come before us, we join in diversity to show our presence in numbers too great to ignore.
The Women s March on Washington will send a bold message to our new government on their first day in office, and to the world that women s rights are human rights.
We stand together, recognizing that defending the most marginalized among us is defending all of us.
This movement is going to be a big slap in Trump s face as he realizes that Americans aren t going to take his sh*tty policies and bigotry lying down.
The majority of us are now united against him.Featured image via Joe Raedle / Getty Images