SUBTITLED VIDEO:HERE S ANOTHER JOURNALIST S TAKE ON WHAT S HAPPENED TO SWEDEN: SWEDEN: FROM ABBA TO ALLAH In the 1970s Sweden was a stable and wealthy country that was admired by many outsiders.
It had international pop artists such as ABBA, sports stars like Bj rn Borg and Ingemar Stenmark as well as Volvo cars.
Some outsiders still maintain this rosy image.
In 2016, Sweden was still ranked as the world s goodest country.Unfortunately, being good in the Western world today seems to mean being suicidal.In just two generations, Sweden has become an increasingly dysfunctional and crime-ridden country.
The main cause of this negative transformation is non-European mass immigration.I have been chronicling Sweden s decline for many years.
My reports were falsely dismissed as fantasies made by an alleged right-wing extremist.
This denial is no longer possible.Many alternative media and independent websites are now describing these issues.
Major media in Britain, Germany, the USA and even in Russia have also finally discovered Sweden s Multicultural problems.
This is causing huge embarrassment to the ruling elites in Sweden.
They are used to being admired.
They are not accustomed to international ridicule, or being viewed as an example of what not to do.Events reached a peak when U.S. President Donald Trump publicly made negative remarks about the problems in Sweden.
The Social Democratic Prime Minister Stefan L fven has repeatedly rejected suggestions that the authorities have lost control.
On February 20, 2017, the former Prime Minister Carl Bildt accused President Trump of engaging in misinformation and slander against Sweden.
That very same night, violent riots once again erupted in one of the no-go zones near Stockholm that allegedly do not exist.Car burning in Sweden, January 2017 All former Swedish governments since the 1970s, including those led by Mr. Bildt and Mr. L fven, have directly contributed to the massive problems Sweden is currently facing.Carl Bildt served as Prime Minister of Sweden from 1991 to 1994.
He was in charge of a center-right coalition government by Swedish standards.
Bildt served as Minister for Foreign Affairs between 2006 and 2014 in the center-right coalition of PM Fredrik Reinfeldt.
These governments also continued mass immigration, just as the Socialist Prime Ministers Olof Palme, Ingvar Carlsson, G ran Persson and Stefan L fven did.The Swedish author Astrid Lindgren published the first stories about Pippi Longstocking in the 1940s.
If they were updated for today, perhaps Pippi would have to flee from the suburbs of a Swedish city after having been gang raped by immigrant boys.
Alternatively, she might have been a radical Feminist who donned the Islamic veil in order to express her solidarity with the Muslims who are colonizing her country.The Swedish mass media and political elites are very careful not to suggest any connection between rapes and mass immigration from Third World countries.
Yet there is every reason to suspect that such a connection exists.
We know from other Western European countries that immigrants from certain regions and cultures, particularly from the Islamic world and Africa, are disproportionately represented as perpetrators in rape cases.READ MORE: GATE OF VIENNA