This video shows what happens when a large population of muslim immigrants refuse to assimilate with the culture of residents living in the country where they have immigrated.
Instead, muslims in Britain and in countries all over the world are demanding the citizens who have been living there for centuries conform to their extreme radical religious views.
In May, new census data published by the British government showed that Islam is set to become the dominant religion in Britain within the next generation.On being informed that the girl did not want to get married, Mohammed Shahid Akhtar, Imam of Birmingham s Central Jamia Masjid Ghamkol Sharif Mosque, said, She s 14.
By Sharia, grace of Allah, she s legal to get married.
The Muslim population of Britain topped 3.3 million by the end of 2013 to become around 5.2% of the overall population of 63 million, according to figures extrapolated from a recent study on the growth of the Muslim population in Europe.At the same time, opinion surveys consistently show that voters in Britain view Islam and the question of Muslim immigration as a top-ranked public concern.
The British public, it seems, is increasingly worried about the establishment of a parallel Muslim society there.But government efforts to push back against the Islamization of Britain have been halting and half-hearted.What follows is a chronological review of some of the main stories involving the rise of Islam in Britain during 2013.In January, Muslim gangs were filmed loitering on streets in London and demanding that passersby conform to Islamic Sharia law.
In a series of videos, the self-proclaimed vigilantes who call themselves Muslim London Patrol are seen abusing non-Muslim pedestrians and repeatedly shouting this is a Muslim area.
One video records the men shouting: Allah is the greatest!
Islam is here, whether you like it or not.
We are here!
We are here!
What we need is Islam!
What we need is Sharia!
The video continues: We are the Muslim Patrol.
We are in north London, we are in south London, in east London and west London.
We command good and forbid evil.
Islam is here in London.
[Prime Minister] David Cameron, Mr. Police Officer, whether you like it or not, we will command good and forbid evil.
You will never get us.
You can go to hell!
This is not a Christian country.
To hell with Christianity.
Isa [Jesus] was a messenger of Allah.
Muslim Patrol will never die.
Allah is great!
Allah is great!
We are coming!
In a January 23 interview with the online newspaper International Business Times, Anjem Choudary, a radical preacher who has long called for Sharia law to be implemented in Britain and other European countries, defended the gang, saying: This is a wake-up call for society to ask, where are we headed?
There is a clash between Islam and liberal democracy in hotspot areas of London.
Choudary has previously led a campaign, known as the Islamic Emirates Project, to turn twelve British cities including what he calls Londonistan into independent Islamic states.
The so-called Islamic Emirates would function as autonomous enclaves, ruled by Sharia law and governed entirely outside British jurisprudence.In February, Choudary was filmed urging his followers to quit their jobs and claim unemployment benefits so they have more time to plan holy war against non-Muslims.Excerpts of the speech, published by the London-based newspaper The Sun on February 17, drew renewed attention to the growing problem of Muslims in Britain and elsewhere who are exploiting European welfare systems.In the video, Choudary is recorded as saying that Muslims are justified in taking money from non-Muslims, whom he mocks for working in nine-to-five jobs their whole lives.
He says: You find people are busy working the whole of their life.
They wake up at 7 o clock.
They go to work at 9 o clock.
They work for eight, nine hours a day.
They come home at 7 o clock, watch EastEnders [a British soap opera], sleep, and they do that for 40 years of their life.
That is called slavery.
.
.
.
What kind of life is that?
That is the life of the kuffar [a non-Muslim].
Choudary urges fellow Muslims to learn from revered figures in Islamic history who only worked one or two days a year.
The rest of the year they were busy with jihad [holy war] and things like that, he says.
People will say, Ah, but you are not working.
But the normal situation is for you to take money from the kuffar.
So we take Jihad Seeker s Allowance.
In March, the London-based newspaper The Independent reported that at least 100 British Muslims are currently active as jihadists fighting in Syria, which has replaced Afghanistan, Pakistan and Somalia as the main destination for militant Islamists seeking to obtain immediate combat experience with little or no official scrutiny.Also in March, St. John s Episcopal Church in Aberdeen, Scotland, became the first church in the United Kingdom to share its premises with Muslim worshippers.
Church officials now welcome hundreds of Muslims praying five times a day in their building because the nearby mosque is filled to overcapacity and Muslim worshippers are forced to pray outside.
Via: American Renaissance Here is how muslims treat homosexuals walking through muslim areas in Britain:https://youtu.be/yYRl_9QUjk4Britain First is a Christian organization committed to stopping the Islamization of Britain.