Donald Trump is going to throw a temper tantrum tonight.It s been a couple weeks since Trump embarrassed himself by attacking Saturday Night Live and Alec Baldwin over a cold-open mocking him for obsessing with Twitter instead of listening to national security briefings.
Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Trump whined.
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can t get any worse.
Sad.
Just tried watching Saturday Night Live unwatchable!
Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can t get any worse.
Sad Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016And Alec Baldwin immediately fired back with an offer for Trump.
@realDonaldTrumpRelease your tax returns and I ll stop.
Ha ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) December 4, 2016Four days later, Trump continued to whine about the skit during an interview on the Today Show in which he appeared to threaten Saturday Night Live.
There s nothing funny about it, Trump complained.
The skits are terrible.
I like Alec but his imitation of me is terrible.
Frankly, the way the show is going now and when you look at the work they re doing who knows how long that show s gonna be on.
It s a terrible show.
Well, Trump better put on his big boy pants because Baldwin is returning to SNL to portray Trump once again and he broke the news to Trump on Twitter.Baldwin first retweeted John Fugelsang s tweet mocking Trump for misspelling unprecedented on Saturday morning.Nixon was evil but he wasn t ignorant.
W was ignorant but he wasn t evil.
The incoming combo is #unpresidented John Fugelsang (@JohnFugelsang) December 17, 2016Then Baldwin compared Trump to a biker a girl brings home to meet her family.Trump is like that biker the girl brings home.
DAD: You re not marrying him.
GIRL: Yes I am!
I LOVE WAYNE!!!!
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) December 17, 2016And then he revealed that he will be playing Trump again on SNL tonight and refused to apologize for it.I won t apple-agize.
Tonight at 11:30.
Live.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) December 17, 2016 @snl tonight pic.twitter.com/otoph91mrg ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) December 17, 2016Now we just have to watch the skit and wait for Trump to lose his sh*t on Twitter about it.
Because we all know that Trump s behavior is definitely unpresidented.
Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images