PAUL SPERRY SPOKE WITH LOU DOBBS ON HIS REPORT ABOUT OBAMA S SHADOW GOVERNMENT:Obama has two things going for him: The judiciary is his lethal weapon.
He stacked the courts during his 8 years with liberal judges who can make things really difficult for President Trump.
We ve seen it in action with the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals on Trump s Executive Order.
President Trump should shake this court up ASAP!
Yes, he can do it and he should!
NEWT: JEFFERSON WOULD ABOLISH THE 9TH CIRCUIT COURT:The second thing that s troubling is the shadow government that Obama is setting up just blocks away from the White House.
He s not going to let his legacy go down without a fight.
He ll use the power of the evil doers like George Soros to pay for an army of destructive anarchists:PAUL SPERRY OF THE NYP: When former President Barack Obama said he was heartened by anti-Trump protests, he was sending a message of approval to his troops.
Troops?
Yes, Obama has an army of agitators numbering more than 30,000 who will fight his Republican successor at every turn of his historic presidency.
And Obama will command them from a bunker less than two miles from the White House.In what s shaping up to be a highly unusual post-presidency, Obama isn t just staying behind in Washington.
He s working behind the scenes to set up what will effectively be a shadow government to not only protect his threatened legacy, but to sabotage the incoming administration and its popular America First agenda.He s doing it through a network of leftist nonprofits led by Organizing for Action.
Normally you d expect an organization set up to support a politician and his agenda to close up shop after that candidate leaves office, but not Obama s OFA.
Rather, it s gearing up for battle, with a growing war chest and more than 250 offices across the country.Since Donald Trump s election, this little-known but well-funded protesting arm has beefed up staff and ramped up recruitment of young liberal activists, declaring on its website, We re not backing down.
Determined to salvage Obama s legacy, it s drawing battle lines on immigration, ObamaCare, race relations and climate change.Obama is intimately involved in OFA operations and even tweets from the group s account.
In fact, he gave marching orders to OFA foot soldiers following Trump s upset victory.
It is fine for everybody to feel stressed, sad, discouraged, he said in a conference call from the White House.
But get over it.
He demanded they move forward to protect what we ve accomplished.
Now is the time for some organizing, he said.
So don t mope.
Far from sulking, OFA activists helped organize anti-Trump marches across US cities, some of which turned into riots.
After Trump issued a temporary ban on immigration from seven terror-prone Muslim nations, the demonstrators jammed airports, chanting: No ban, no wall, sanctuary for all!
Run by old Obama aides and campaign workers, federal tax records show nonpartisan OFA marshals 32,525 volunteers nationwide.
Registered as a 501(c)(4), it doesn t have to disclose its donors, but they ve been generous.
OFA has raised more than $40 million in contributions and grants since evolving from Obama s campaign organization Obama for America in 2013.OFA, in IRS filings, says it trains young activists to develop organizing skills.
Armed with Obama s 2012 campaign database, OFA plans to get out the vote for Democratic candidates it s grooming to win back Congress and erect a wall of resistance to Trump at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue.It will be aided in that effort by the Obama Foundation, run by Obama s former political director, and the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, launched last month by Obama pal Eric Holder to end what he and Obama call GOP gerrymandering of congressional districts.Obama will be overseeing it all from a shadow White House located within two miles of Trump.DON T LET THE LEFT BE THE DEATH OF AMERICA!
PLEASE DON T BE SILENT!
SHOW UP AND SPEAK UP!