Michigan s governor Rick Snyder is desperately trying to retain some credibility by increasing his presence in the media.
It isn t working.
All he is doing is proving to the world that he is as much a scumbag as the world thinks he is.In an interview with Fox 2, Snyder said that he would let his grandchildren be bathed in Flint, Michigan.
During the interview, Charlie LeDuff asks Rick Snyder: Would you have your grandchildren bathe daily in that water coming out of those pipes, now?
Yeah, because again, that s the advice I ve gotten, Snyder says.
I wouldn t let my child chew on a Chinese made toy, I don t think I d let my child, as just as person, a rational person that doesn t know that much, bathe in water what we know there s high levels of lead, LeDuff responds.
You would let your grandchild bathe in that?
Snyder then tries to squirm his way out of the gaffe he just made by giving this poor explanation for his claim: We don t know that there s necessarily high levels of lead in every bath tub.
But again, there could be this risk.
But we ve been told by the experts by itself You just don t leave them by themselves.
you need to monitor that to make sure they don t drink the water.
Here s the interview.It really sounded like Snyder was trying to make the contamination of Flint s water sound safer than it is, didn t it?
That s really weird because just hours earlier, Snyder went on CBS for an interview where he said that they don t want people to assume that the water in Flint is safer than it is.During that interview, Snyder was again, completely hammered for his utter incompetence.
Snyder failed to answer even basic questions about what people desperately want to know.The interviewer, Scott Pelley, asks Snyder: Governor, is the water in Flint safe today?
Snyder responds, saying: We don t want to consider it safe, Scott.
I think we ve seen progress in terms of improvements in the water testing.
But until it s been thoroughly tested, including third-party verification, we want people to assume that they should be using filters, or bottled water as an interim measure.
Pelley presses Snyder: So fair to say you don t know what the lead content is in the water?
Snyder responds, saying: Well, again we don t want people to believe it s safe.
Extensive testing is going on, has been going on for some time.
At that point, Pelley seems to have had enough of Snyder s evasiveness.
He grills Snyder, saying: I don t understand why you can t give us the latest testing data and what it shows for the water in Flint.
What is the number?
Snyder, still trying to down play his incompetence, says: I don t have the number at the top of my head of the very latest data.
And it varies by parts of the city.
To this, Pelley eviscerates Snyder, saying: I would think that the governor of Michigan would have those numbers at the top of his mind right now.
You can watch the interview below.Featured Image Credit: Video Screenshot via Fox 2