Watch well-organized anti-Trump terrorists pull individual Trump supporters into their crowd, while surrounding them in order to keep friends from helping them, while they mercilessly beat and stomp on them in video below.
According to the student newspaper at Hillary s alma mater, this is okay to do because these people are perceived to be hateful because they support a different political ideology:https://twitter.com/TEN_GOP/status/853347335463743492American citizens shouldn t have to fear for their lives because they hold an opposing political view to those on the left.
In a post-Obama and Hillary America however, this has sadly become a new reality.
While cops are being told to stand down as violent protesters are bloodying Trump supporters from Chicago to Berkeley, CA, we now have radical leftist institutions of higher learning like Wellesley College whose students are actually condoning violence against Americans if they dare to take a political view that is in opposition to theirs.Wellesley College made news last month when professors declared speakers with objectionable views are not only offensive to students, but actually diminish their liberty.
Now, the student newspaper at the elite private college has taken it a step further justifying violence against anyone who either continue to speak hate speech or refuse to adapt their beliefs to accepted progressive norms, saying then hostility may be warranted.
The shocking statement came in an editorial in the student newspaper, The Wellesley News, entitled Free Speech Is Not Violated At Wellesley.
Wellesley students are generally correct in their attempts to differentiate what is viable discourse from what is just hate speech, the paper declared.
Shutting down rhetoric that undermines the existence and rights of others is not a violation of free speech; it is hate speech.
The founding fathers put free speech in the Constitution as a way to protect the disenfranchised and to protect individual citizens from the power of the government.
The editorial board at the paper then ascribes a new meaning to the First Amendment.
The spirit of free speech is to protect the suppressed, not to protect a free-for-all where anything is acceptable, no matter how hateful and damaging, the demand.The reason hate speech exists is that the United States is a racist country, according to the paper.
We have all said problematic claims, the origins of which were ingrained in us by our discriminatory and biased society.
Luckily, most of us have been taught by our peers and mentors at Wellesley in a productive way, the paper continues.As for speakers and student who do not conform to what the paper deems acceptable speech, the editorial says violence may be justified.
(I)f people are given the resources to learn and either continue to speak hate speech or refuse to adapt their beliefs, then hostility may be warranted, the editorial states.Read more: Daily Caller