Newsweek just published a damning investigative report detailing how Donald Trump is already fundamentally changing American foreign policy to enrich himself, even if it means being a puppet for dictators.Ever since Russia helped him win the election, Trump has refused to sever ties with his company, which builds hotels and resorts around the world.But Trump s business interests are putting him in the position of being controlled by other nations because every decision he makes could jeopardize his company and the profits it brings in.For instance, Trump is getting awfully cozy with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte, who is busy slaughtering thousands of his own people in a supposed effort to rid his country of drugs.Governments around the world have condemned the killings.
So has the United Nations.
But because Trump has a hotel that is nearing completion in the Philippines, he is already sucking up to Duterte.
Trump has even invited Duterte to the White House.That s right, Trump is palling around with a mass murderer because he doesn t want to lose money.
Seriously.According to Newsweek,The Trump family has an enormous financial interest in keeping Duterte happy.
Trump Tower at Century City in Makati, Philippines, is on the verge of completion, with potential buyers having placed deposits on at least 94 percent of the condominiums, according to Century Properties, the Trump Organization s business partner there.In addition, Trump has also been trying to build hotels and resorts in Taiwan, which is probably the reason why he pissed off China by calling the Taiwanese president.
American presidents have recognized China as the one and only China in the world since 1979, which is why presidents do not directly contact Taiwan.
By doing so, Trump is signaling that he recognizes Taiwan as a nation, something the Chinese dispute.
But once again, Taiwan has leverage over Trump because his business is trying to build resorts there.
So Trump is willing to risk war with China for the sake of profiting from Taiwan.
Trump could also be just using the threat of doing business in Taiwan in order to force Beijing to allow Trump to build hotels in China instead.The same goes for Russia, too.
Trump has been trying to build a hotel in Moscow for decades.
Now he can give Vladimir Putin something in return for allowing construction to commence.
In other words, Trump may drop all sanctions against Russia and ignore their aggression towards Europe in exchange for a multi-million dollar business deal for himself and his children.Turkey is currently trying to blackmail Trump by holding his financial interests hostage.
Turkish President Erdogan had a Turkish executive who works with Trump s business partner arrested, which is putting pressure on the cash flow Trump s company receives from Turkey.
Millions of dollars are at stake if Trump doesn t bow down to Erdogan s demand that the United States hand over a person the Turkish government claims is a terrorist, even though they have provided no evidence to support the claim.
Once Trump takes office, he will likely do what Turkey wants in order to keep the money flowing to his pockets.Trump also has conflicts of interest with Japan and Argentina.When Ivanka Trump sat in during her father s meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and was included in a phone call with Argentine President Mauricio Macri, there were business deals at stake in both countries.At the same time, officials with her clothing company were working on a licensing agreement with Sanei International.
The largest shareholder of Sanei s parent company is the Development Bank of Japan, which is wholly owned by the Japanese government headed by Abe.And Argentina recently stopped blocking a building project from moving forward after Trump and his daughter spoke with Macri on the phone only days after the election.In short, Trump is using the presidency to increase his family s fortune instead of dong what is best for our country.
And this is a major threat to our democracy and our security because other nations now have the power to influence Trump simply by threatening to pull the plug on building projects or cutting off profits from being sent to Trump s bank account.
It s a MAJOR conflict of interest that sets up a constitutional crisis the second Trump takes office.
And that cannot be allowed to happen if we do not want America to be trampled over by foreign governments.Featured image via Steve Pope/Getty Images