Since the shooting in Orlando, Donald Trump has been yammering on about how he was right about radical Islamic terrorism and Muslims all along.
He s also been blasting President Obama for the way he s handling ISIS, connecting Obama to the Orlando massacre.
He just recently stepped that up, claiming again that he was right about all this, and also bringing Hillary Clinton into the ring of his accusations.
He even has a source to back all this up now!
The big question now is, Bro, do you even news?
USA Today decided to answer that question with, No, he clearly doesn t. Why?
Because he said: Hillary Clinton received a classified intelligence report stating that the Obama administration was actively supporting Al Qaeda in Iraq, the terrorist group that became the Islamic State.
His source for that?
Breitbart, which is less reliable than Fox News.
They referenced a government memo from 2012 on the situation and called it an intelligence report.
Trump took that story and used it to gloat about being right about everything:An: Media fell all over themselves criticizing what DonaldTrump may have insinuated about @POTUS.
But he s right: https://t.co/bIIdYtvZYw Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 15, 2016USA Today, however, looked at that so-called report, and found that it doesn t say what either Trump or Breitbart claim.
Here s the relevant information:DIA memo, August 2012: A. Internally, events are taking a clear sectarian direction.B.
The Salafist, the Muslim Brotherhood, and AQI [Al Qaeda in Iraq] are the major forces driving the insurgency in Syria.C.
The West, Gulf countries, and Turkey support the opposition; while Russia, China, and Iran support the regime.AQI supported the uprising against Syrian president Bashar al-Assad from the beginning, and so did the U.S. That s not a secret in any form of the word, and it takes an amazing leap of twisted logic to assume that means Obama was actively supporting even working with Al Qaeda.
USA Today s report says that, for this to be true, several more countries would have to have been involved in this conspiracy, too.Now it s getting so complicated that it defies description.To that end, though, USA Today reached out to several Middle East experts about this.
One such expert, Andrew Tabler, said: The US never supported AQ in Iraq not sure where that came from.
Another expert, Perry Cammack, called Breitbart s story amazingly poor reporting, and said: If anything the Obama administration has been criticized for doing too little to support the Syrian opposition, and it s frankly for exactly this reason.
As far as Hillary s involvement, that s Trump and Breitbart grasping at some very small, slippery straws.
While the memo does list the office of the Secretary of State, Cammack says it would likely have been read by worker bees, and incorporated into a larger briefing for Hillary to review later.In other words, that notation is meaningless, and Trump s accusation is baseless.USA Today concluded their report by saying that Trump s claims are the kind of conspiracy theories they d debunk in an article, and debunk, they did.
They shot down this conspiracy theory rather soundly with basic research of which neither Trump, nor Breitbart, is capable (and they ll eventually be banned for this).Featured image by Mark Lyons/Getty Images