Another conservative Christian hypocrite gets exposed and you ll enjoy the hilarious twist at the end.A female parishioner at the Orlando Baptist Church in Florida forced Pastor David Janney to step down in disgrace after she revealed through a lawsuit that he had an affair with her and promised her hush money to stay quiet about it.In 2015, Janney made sexual advances toward Arlene Miranda, a church member since 2008, and sent her text messages professing his fantasies about her.
In September of that year, Janney and Miranda had sex at the offices of his charity World Hope, Inc.Afterward, he sent this text regretting that there wasn t a better time or place for their affair and told her that he needed to talk with God and work things out.
You re beautiful, you re very sexy, your body is amazing and you re very passionate, the married 61-year-old pastor wrote.
I wish we had a better place and a better time for today.
You re more than I fantasized.
Be proud of yourself.
[A]md now please give me a few days to work through my mind my heart and talk to my Lord.
More than anything I want to be the man of God and your pastor.
Janney later told Miranda to stop texting him out of fear that his wife might catch him, to which Miranda asked if she was just a one-night stand.
I have tried to help you with your feelings, he replied as if she s to blame for the situation.
I do not have the ability to deal with your feelings all the time.
You have to get a handle on this.
According to the lawsuit, Miranda sought council from another pastor at the church, who also seemed to fault her for the affair.
Miranda was told she has a religious duty to the church and should remain silent to protect Janney.Once he learned that the person in this affair was David Janney, Pastor Don told Plaintiff that she had a religious duty to protect Defendant, the church, and the Orlando Baptist Church community by keeping the affair quiet and silently repenting and praying.This all led up to church officials arranging to pay Miranda for her silence, but once it became clear that they were all lying to her just to cover their own asses, she filed a lawsuit.The church, of course.
would rather pretend the affair never took place and released a bullshit statement on Janney s resignation where they stress that him stepping down has nothing to do with the allegations.
Pastor Dave Janney resigned as the Senior Pastor effective Sunday, February 7, 2016, not because the allegations against him are true, but because he felt his resignation was in the best interest of the Church.
Orlando Baptist Church is saddened by the resignation of Pastor Dave Janney.
He leaves with our love and support.
As a church we desire to extend grace and love to all, in all that we do.
The church will be forming a pulpit committee that will lead in the process of selecting a new pastor.
Ultimately our church members will be able to ask questions of, and vote for, any new pastor.
In other words, let s not hold the so-called man of God accountable for his actions even though they go against everything he preaches.Here s a report of the lawsuit via WFTV.Hilariously enough, Pastor Janney is the same Pastor Janney who participated in a campaign call for Mitt Romney in 2012 with a group of conservative Christians who blasted Newt Gingrich for his moral failures.
You know, because Gingrich had a history of cheating on his wives and then leaving them for the other woman.
When I look at his life I m not concerned about being embarrassed or distracted by his personal issues, Janney said when he explained his support of Romney over Gingrich three years before inducting himself into the Hypocritical Christian Hall of Fame.Gingrich must be laughing his ass off right about now.
Featured Image: Wikimedia