Where there s a will, there s a way and these awesome students certainly don t lack the will to succeed in their quest to protect their precious First Amendment Right!
The Portland State University Students For Trump chapter were back at it, this time holding an event called BUILD THE WALL , where they literally brought a replica wall to campus.At first campus police told them they could not bring it on the university property because it is a structure and they didn t have a permit.
What s quite interesting about that is the fact that the wackjob SJW groups on campus have been getting away with violating policy after policy over and over during their protests and marches.
They use amplified devices, march through the halls of the buildings screaming and yelling, they literally took over a PSU board of trustees meeting that cause the board members to flee, and they staged a die in in the street, all of which were ignored by campus police and, as far as this author can tell, no punishment was handed down.
If there were, then they were so light that it did not cause any of the students to think twice before doing it all again at the next protest.The students began setting up The Wall off campus, then realized what cucks the campus police are and that none of the policies would be enforced, so they returned to the park blocks in the heart of the campus.
This time a city park Ranger decided to tell them the wall had to go.
The students made the case that The Wall was a sign and not a structure .
The Ranger cucked himself off and the students continued on, with police monitoring both on the ground in uniform, and in plain clothes from the balcony of a nearby building, where an officer had a video camera and was filming the event.WATCH HERE:WATCH these awesome students give offended liberals a lesson in tolerance and truth:And what could possibly offend a liberal more than LGBT s for Trump?
Mainstream media asked the Trump students to clarify on the race issue.
One old bag and her daughter (?)
went on about how Trump s immigration policy is racist, and while a Trump supporter is calmly responding, the young hagling just says Let s go.
Fuck Donald Trump while, as usual, flipping everyone off.Via: Progressives Today