Independent conservative presidential candidate Evan McMullin has been busily warning the world about Donald Trump ever since the reality star became president-elect.
McMullin is a former operative for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
He is also an expert on autocrats.
He once went on a tweetstorm warning the nation that Trump shows all the signs of being a dictator in the making.
Now, he is back to warn us again this time about where Trump s loyalties really lie and it s NOT with the United States of America.McMullin sent out tweets on Saturday, saying that Trump, is, quote, not a loyal American.
First, McMullin condemned Trump s Russia-friendly secretary of state pick:In Tillerson, Trump has identified a potential secretary of state unlikely to oppose Trump's alignment with Putin.
https://t.co/xc8aWzOOW6 Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) December 10, 2016Then, he warned everyone that Trump is steadily dismantling all of the things that have protected us from Russia for decades:.
@realDonaldTrump is purposely dismantling barriers that protect our nation from dangerous Russian subversion, which he has also welcomed.
Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) December 10, 2016Finally, McMullin told all Americans what we definitely need to heed, that Trump is not loyal to this nation, and since he will be running it for the next four years, we need to realize that and act in our best interest:It must be clear that Donald Trump is not a loyal American and we should prepare for the next four years accordingly.
@realDonaldTrump Evan McMullin (@Evan_McMullin) December 10, 2016This is as dangerous as it gets, folks.
Trump is literally about to hand control of this nation over to Vladimir Putin.
Putin is no friend of the United States.
He is a bully, a thug, and a killer.
He is the enemy of democracy everywhere, and we have a man who is a sympathizer to Russia and Putin about to become president.We must resist.
We must not normalize this.
Our very lives as we know them may depend on #TheResistance.Featured image via George Frey/Getty Images