You know, because Republicans are now pretending that they acted like adults over the last eight years.In 2009, Mitch McConnell infamously declared that Republicans would actively work to sabotage the government and America in order to make President Obama a one-term president.
Of course, his plan failed but he never stopped the unprecedented obstruction, hissy fits, and utter disrespect towards President Obama and whatever policy ideas he proposed.
Basically, if Obama suggested it, Republicans hated it, even if it was their idea originally, like the individual mandate in Obamacare.But now that Donald Trump is about to take over the White House due to help from the Russians, McConnell is whining because Democrats intend to show him what karma looks like.Last week, McConnell complained after Senate Democrats promised to block Trump s Supreme Court nominees, calling such a thing something that Americans won t tolerate.
Except that McConnell and Republicans blocked President Obama s Supreme Court nominee for nearly a year until the nomination recently expired.
But now Republicans all of a sudden expect Democrats to kiss Trump s ass.And McConnell demonstrated his hypocrisy again on Sunday during an interview with Face The Nation host John Dickerson.The Office of Government Ethics recently sounded the alarm that they are being pressured to rush Trump s cabinet picks through a system of checks that McConnell himself insisted upon in 2009, such as financial disclosures, tax returns, and background checks, when President Obama made his cabinet picks.
But now McConnell is pretending that Republicans treated President Obama with nothing but deference and respect and said that Democrats should treat Trump the same way and resorted to using petty insults.The Democrats are really frustrated that they lost the election, McConnell said.
We confirmed seven Cabinet appointments the day President Obama was sworn in.
We didn t like most of them, either.
But he won the election.
So all of these little procedural complaints are related to their frustration at having not only lost the White House, but having lost the Senate.
I understand that.
But we need to, sort of, grow up here and get past that.
Here s the video via VidMe.Funny, I seem to remember Republicans leaving countless federal and judicial positions unfilled because they pledged to make President Obama fail.
And to this day hundreds of positions remain unfilled all because Republicans hated that a black guy was elected president.McConnell insisted on these rules being followed in 2009, so he must follow his own rules.
But it gets even worse for McConnell when you consider that his wife has been nominated to be Secretary of Transportation, so one wonders what McConnell wants to desperately hide so much that he now thinks it s no big deal to skip procedure.Seriously, Democrats should declare war on Trump in a way that makes the Republican war against President Obama look like a sissy fight.
Turnabout is fair play, after all, and if anyone deserves to be obstructed and blocked, it s Donald Trump.
And Republicans only have themselves to blame.Featured Image: Screenshot