Donald Trump has made it clear that he has a very large place in his heart for Vladimir Putin, so big in fact, that he s taken his side against fellow Americans.Earlier today, Trump tweeted a response to a statement from Putin:Vladimir Putin said today about Hillary and Dems: "In my opinion, it is humiliating.
One must be able to lose with dignity."
So true!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 24, 2016Well, first off, Hillary won the popular vote, and Trump is in constant denial of that.
Also, if the situation were reversed Trump would have thrown a giant temper-tantrum in response.
Not to mention the fact he s taking the side of a foreign country against his fellow American people.
Of course, how could he be against the man who helped him win the election?
Donald Trump has no room to say what s dignified and what s not, in fact, he probably doesn t know what the word even means.
Either way, Trump is getting plenty of comments in response to this tweet, and their completely justified.Our next President parroted an attack against his own citizens by a foreign adversary who launched a cyberattacks against the US.
https://t.co/RbWDMJ20Ug Jon Favreau (@jonfavs) December 24, 2016The sad part is, Jon has an excellent point.
Apparently, Donald Trump would rather please Vladimir than the 65 million Americans who voted for Clinton.The Rude Pundit also made a great remark in response to the president-elect s tweet:Seriously, arrest this fraud.
Let's have the fight that would cause.
What would do more damage?
That or his presidency?
https://t.co/q9JrAGeJtd The Rude Pundit (@rudepundit) December 24, 2016It s probably safe to say Trump s presidency would do more damage, but sadly we won t know for sure until it s too late.Michael McFaul also responded to Trump s nearly treasonous tweet:So now the President-elect and an autocrat in the Kremlin team up to trash an American.
Unprecedented.
Will Republicans speak up?
https://t.co/Vef1g5tiFK Michael McFaul (@McFaul) December 24, 2016Michael made a small mistake in this tweet though, it wasn t an American, it was 65 million Americans.The tweets don t stop here though, they continue on, calling Trump on all the irony of his tweet.The President-elect is tweeting lessons in how to "lose with dignity" from an authoritarian who murders his political opponents.For real.
https://t.co/1PG5T1wn2w Mo Elleithee (@MoElleithee) December 24, 2016The president elect taking the side of an authoritarian dictator against half the country https://t.co/TUpmNbaJNp Michael Cohen (@speechboy71) December 24, 2016Donald Trump continues to embarrass himself on Twitter and it s awesome because we get to laugh and make fun of him all the time.
Well, sort of.
The major downside about this is Trump is serious about what he says, and everything he says is garbage, but that s what we have to deal with for the next four years.He's quoting Putin.
This is going to be a long four years.
https://t.co/iKzEP4fTlW deray mckesson (@deray) December 24, 2016Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images