Star Trek opposes Donald Trump for obvious reasons.In a lot of ways, Star Trek has predicted the future of Earth and humankind.
Technologically, Star Trek has inspired many of the inventions we take for granted today such as cell phones, tablets, and laptop computers.
Currently, scientists are working on developing transporters, tractor beams, and other tech found in the Trek universe.But the vision of Star Trek is a Utopian future where war, disease, hate, hunger, and sexism no longer exist and the only thing people work for is to better themselves because money is unnecessary.
The nations of Earth are united and so we set out into the wider universe in search of new life and new civilizations to join us.But Donald Trump has no interest in creating a better future designed to help and unite all humans.
If elected to the presidency, Trump will slam the brakes on progress and take us back to an era before Star Trek was even an idea.
And that is so scary that the casts and crews across the various Star Trek series are uniting against Trump and urging people to vote for Hillary Clinton if we want to continue the path toward a brighter and more hopeful future.
Star Trek has always offered a positive vision of the future, a vision of hope and optimism, and most importantly, a vision of inclusion, where people of all races are accorded equal respect and dignity, where individual beliefs and lifestyles are respected so long as they pose no threat to others, the group Trek Against Trump wrote on Facebook.We cannot turn our backs on what is happening in the upcoming election.
Never has there been a presidential candidate who stands in such complete opposition to the ideals of the Star Trek universe as Donald Trump.
His election would take this country backward, perhaps disastrously.
We need to elect a president who will move this country forward into the kind of future we all dream of: where personal differences are understood and accepted, where science overrules superstition, where people work together instead of against each other.The resolution of conflicts on Star Trek was never easy.
Don t remain aloof vote!
We have heard people say they will vote Green or Libertarian or not at all because the two major candidates are equally flawed.
That is both illogical and inaccurate.
Either Secretary Clinton or Mr. Trump will occupy the White House.
One is an amateur with a contemptuous ignorance of national laws and international realities, while the other has devoted her life to public service, and has deep and valuable experience with the proven ability to work with Congress to pass desperately needed legislation.
If, as some say, the government is broken, a protest vote will not fix it.
Do this not merely for yourself but for all the generations that follow, the post concludes.
Vote for a future of enlightenment and inclusion, a future that will someday lead us to the stars.
Those who signed the statement include George Takei, Walter Koenig, and the families of Leonard Nimoy and Jimmy Doohan of the original series, Jonathan Frakes, Wil Wheaton, and Brent Spiner of The Next Generation, Kate Mulgrew, Robert Picardo, and Tim Russ of Voyager, Scott Bakula, Dominic Keating and Connor Trinneer of Enterprise, Ren Auberjonois and Armin Shimmerman of Deep Space Nine, and Chris Pine Zachary Quinto, and Zoe Saldana from the new Star Trek film series.
Along with many other Trek actors, the signatories also include writers, directors, and the son of Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry.Here s the full post via Facebook:Star Trek is the idea of the future we all want to believe can be reality one day.
But letting Trump become president would be a major setback for that dream.
We need a president who will boldly take America into the future, not a coward who fears it.Featured image via Wikimedia