It s no secret that President Trump is very much a hands-on type of manager.
Should anyone really be surprised by the firing and hiring of people in his inner-circle, as he assesses their job performances, to ensure the most qualified people are in place for key positions of his administration?
The next couple of weeks should be interesting as Trump figures out which direction he ll go with press briefings, and who, if anyone, will represent him as a trusted and competent spokesperson.
The inside scoop from Infowars, is that he s already made that decision White House sources have told Infowars that Sean Spicer could be fired within the next week as President Trump begins a purge of establishment advisers who he feels have failed to properly investigate leaks coming from within the administration.Speculation is already swirling as to whether or not Spicer will return after he was benched and temporarily replaced with Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Spicer has behaved like a deer in the headlights in recent weeks and is not able to handle the pressure of the job, according to one source.They add that Spicer will be gone by next week and that former prosecutor and current Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle, who was previously considered for the role, is currently the favorite to replace him.
InfowarsBack in October, she was seen entering Trump Tower and rumors began swirling she was up for a position on the communications team.
By December, the speculation hit its fever pitch and political observers were sure Guilfoyle would be involved with the operation somehow, whether as press secretary or in an ancillary role.
Even some of her Fox News colleagues spoke out in favor of her heading to the White House.Still, a New York Times report yesterday said, while Mr. Trump has raised the Fox News host Kimberly Guilfoyle to allies as a possible press secretary, he has spent several hours with Mr. Spicer this week, praising his television ratings during the briefings.
Though Trump has been claiming he wants to stop the briefings, his actions indicate otherwise.
Who knows, but maybe we ll see Guilfoyle at that podium sooner than we think.
The only question left then would be who will play her on Saturday Night Live?A report from the AP out today also notes that Trump is mulling expanding the communications team and has eyed hiring producers from Fox News.
-Mediaite