There s nobody your standard issue right-wing nutjob loves more than Chris Kyle.
His story is the stuff of ammosexual dreams.
Not only did he join the military to go fight terrorists, he scored more kills than anyone in Iraq.
He also told some blatantly fictitious stories about things he did here at home, but his military career?
Not even those darned lefties who think glorifying killing women and children for any reason is wrong could deny what s written in black and white.
Ultimately, it seems, it s those same records that will cheapen the legacy of Chris Kyle.An investigation by The Intercept reveals that while Kyle does have a remarkable military record, it wasn t enough for his ego.
In his book, American Sniper, Kyle said: All told I would end my career as a SEAL with two Silver Stars and five Bronze [Stars], all for valor.
That s awfully impressive.
Unfortunately, it s a lie.
According to internal Navy documents, Chris Kyle received one Silver Star and three Bronze Stars.
Why anyone would need to embellish a career already that impressive is truly baffling, but Kyle did.
Is it really that big of a deal, though?
So the guy told a little fibsky what s the harm in that?
Apparently, when it comes to Navy SEALS and valor, there is little that is worse.
According to The Intercept:Kyle was warned at least once before American Sniper was published that its description of his medal count was wrong, according to one current Navy officer, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak about the case.
As Kyle s American Sniper manuscript was distributed among SEALs, one of his former commanders, who was still on active duty, advised Kyle that his claim of having two Silver Stars was false, and he should correct it before his book was published.Current and former Navy SEALs interviewed for this article, who agreed to speak on background because they feared being shunned by their close-knit community, did not dispute Kyle s heroism in combat, but saw the inflation of his medal count as significant because they consider battlefield embellishments to be dishonorable.Not only did Kyle lie, he was called on it.
It may have been one thing if he could have claimed he thought he had medals or that, aw, gee there were so many I got mixed up, but that time came and went.
Not only do Kyle s lies about shooting looters after Katrina or killing carjackers with his 2nd Amendment now get the pants on fire rating his military career is now in question as well.
Who is to say that he didn t embellish other things?
The man was obviously constitutionally incapable of telling the truth.Maybe it s a good thing.
Maybe a few fewer women and children met their end with what Kyle called 180 grains of justice.
Featured image by the Fort Worth Star-Telegram/Getty Images