Overwhelmed by the sadness of the mass shooting in Orlando, Florida where 50 people were killed, the 70th Annual Tony Awards and host James Corden sent a message to hateful bigots everywhere.Conservatives are applauding the mass shooting, which occurred at an LGBT night club.
But the Tony Awards countered the hate with an opening number celebrating diversity.In his opening remarks, Corden declared that hate will never win and sent support and condolences to the victims and their families.
Good evening.
All around the world, people are trying to come to terms with the horrific events that took place in Orlando this morning.
On behalf of the whole theater community and every person in this room, our hearts go out to all of those affected by this atrocity.All we can say is you are not on your own right now.
Your tragedy is our tragedy.
Theater is a place where every race, creed, sexuality and gender is equal, embraced and loved.
Hate will never win.
Together, we have to make sure of that.
Tonight s show stands as a symbol and a celebration of that principle.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, it was exactly that as Corden then launched into a number featuring himself singing in every Broadway play imaginable, including The Lion King, Grease, and Les Miserables just to name a few.And then he sang about how any kid could be on Broadway some day no matter what they look like or who they are.
To the theatre kids of any place with stardust in their eyes, Corden sang as children of all ages and ethnicities took the stage.
Of every color, class and race, and face, and shape and size.
To the boys and girls, transgenders too, to every Broadway would-be.
Don t wonder if this could be you.
It absolutely could be!
Here s the video via YouTube.And the diverse Tony Awards wouldn t be complete without a shot at the Oscars and Donald Trump, which James Corden also provided.
Think of tonight as the Oscars, but with diversity, Corden joked.
It s so diverse, Donald Trump has threatened to build a wall around this theater.
Featured image via screen capture