Trump s attempt at self-fellation following his kinda-sorta victory in the election went a bit limp when he threw himself a party and no one came.
Sure, there were people there, but many of the seats at his Cincinnati rally Thursday remained unwarmed by the freedom farts of his racist, xenophobic, and otherwise deplorable fans.The Guardian s Ben Jacobs posted a photo of the event shortly before Donald Trump was scheduled to speak a time that, before he was elected, would have virtually ensured a stadium packed with meth-addled, cretinous assorted bigots.
Let s just say it was underwhelming.
Trump s victory tour in Cincinnati an hour before he takes the stage pic.twitter.com/1zriYO7s21 Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) December 1, 2016 Sure, Trump supporters will undoubtedly say, he chose the worst possible angle to something-something l genpresse.
Calling the rally surprisingly uncrowded, the Daily Telegraph s Ruth Sherlock also tweeted a photo of the extremely disappointing crowd:Crowd gathering at #Trump thank you rally in #Cincinnati #Ohio surprisingly uncrowded.
pic.twitter.com/7ZX1VwIhAV Ruth Sherlock (@Rsherlock) December 2, 2016One Trump supporter fired back at Sherlock, calling her out on her lying photo by tweeting one of people who were actually there.
Crowd gathering at #Trump thank you rally in #Cincinnati#Ohio surprisingly uncrowded.
@Rsherlock Funny how your pic looks nothing like the pics of people who were actually there.
#FakeNewsAlert!https://t.co/tl1YqVNXkg E.D.
Skovbo (@EDSkovbo) December 2, 2016Unfortunately for him and anyone else who will inevitably use that photo in their nonsensical claims that the media is lying to them, this photo is from a rally in October same venue, different (and far fewer) people.Where is the horde of people who used to flock to Trump s rallies?
Maybe 50,000 of them were being held outside by a freedom-hating fire marshal.
Perhaps that dastardly lying media used camera tricks and Photoshop to try to embarrass him.
Were there actually eleventeen million vampires present that the lying media s lying cameras didn t capture?Perhaps they just weren t there because the far fewer than half of Americans who voted for him are waking up to the fact that they just made a gigantic f*cking mistake.
In any case, we re sure to hear what a success Trump s victory party was, and how the media is unfairly attacking him for being unable to fill a room as President-elect.Featured image via screengrab