On Friday, Donald Trump and several of his GOP colleagues will speak at the National Rifle Association s annual Institute for Legislative Action leadership forum.
Without a doubt, the event is going to be overrun with racist, right-wing gun nuts especially because Bearing Arms editor Bob Owens is co-sponsoring the event.Owens is probably tickled pink that he s going to see Trump at the event, as the two men have tons in common.
One of the main similarities between them is that they re both wildly racist.
When Owens isn t spewing nonsense about radical Democrats needing to be hanged for starting a civil war against conservatives and gun owners, he s dabbling in his other hobby smearing the families of slain black children.Owens has repeatedly targeted and gone out of his way to torture the grieving families of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice and Jordon Davis with his vile hate speech.
Not too long after Martin was killed by George Zimmerman, Owens called the teen a violent, drug-abusing thug who appeared to get off on hurting people and a semi-literate violent criminal.
He also trashed the musical about Martin s life, saying that it was an attempt to whitewash a thug s death.
In 2013, Owens said that Martin s mother had raised a monster and that her activism against the Stand Your Ground laws that helped her son s murderer George Zimmerman get acquitted were merely for personal enrichment.
Owens said: As for why Fulton and her attorneys and Democratic lawmakers in general want Stand Your Ground laws repealed, that s blisteringly obvious as well.
Money.A provision of Stand Your Ground law in many states is that if a person is found not guilty during a criminal trial, then that defendant win (sic) civil immunity, and that keeps the families of deceased street thugs from suing the survivors for millions of dollars in civil court.
Owens remarked, Good people will arm themselves against violent young predators like Trayvon Martin because any society that hopes to survive simply has no choice.
Owens attitude toward younger victims of senseless, racially motivated attacks didn t improve over time.
When 12-year-old Tamir Rice was shot by police officers who claimed they thought his toy gun was real, Owens placed the blame on Rice s family once again.
Owens said: The Rice family doesn t care anymore about being responsible after Tamir s death than they did about teaching him to be responsible with realistic toy guns while he was alive.
Owens also condemned Lucy McBath for becoming an activist against Stand Your Ground laws after her son Jordon Davis was shot and killed.
Owens said, she has become radicalized, and now travels the nation attempting to strip law-abiding citizens of their most basic natural right as a human being, the right [to] bear arms for self-defense.
Owens complete lack of human decency has been seen throughout Trump s campaign, not only within the candidate himself but also in his supporters.
One thing has become clear: Trump really appeals to America s worst, and has gained a massive following amongst racists.
Just this week, White Nationalists at The American Freedom Party said that Trump had several KKK delegates that the media isn t aware of.
He s gotten the support of white nationalists like David Duke and William Johnson, who admitted that he wants Trump s divisive rhetoric to make racism more mainstream.As Owens has chosen to ignore the fact that racism exists and that racially motivated attacks have become a major issue in the United States, it s clear that Trump s ignorant, hateful rhetoric is the perfect messaging for the NRA sponsor.
And just as Trump never backs off from a one-sided feud, Owens isn t going to stop torturing these suffering families with his disgusting comments.Featured image via Twitter