Bill O Reilly is back!
And if you listen to his first podcast on his website BillOReilly.com you d almost think nothing happened.
O Reilly uses his first podcast to announce he ll be broadcasting his show every Monday though Friday and that eventually, he plans to turn it into an actual news program.
But will Bill O Reilly s own website be enough for his gigantic ego?
Will it be enough for the fans who are used to turning on the TV and don t want to go to their computer or phone to watch him?Bill has built the largest conservative audience on TV.
Many of his loyal fans are convinced the Murdoch brothers have used these allegations against him as an excuse to remove him from their network as they work to bring the FOX News channel more to the center and away from its right-leaning roots.O Reilly was dismissed overnight following allegations of sexual harassment by at least six women.
It has been reported that Lachlan s wife Sarah Murdoch helped influence the decision.
Last year the former Fox News creator, Roger Ailes, was sacked in similar circumstances, going on to advise Donald Trump s presidential campaign.It has also been suggested by many social media users that Roger Ailes and Bill O Reilly might form their own conservative leaning news network to compete against FOX News.In any case, for those who are missing the voice of a man they ve listened to for over 20 years Here you go.Bill O Reilly s first podcast started out like this (audio is below):Hey, I missed you guys.Welcome to the No Spin News on BillOReilly.com, a completely different experience than what you ve had in the past.
And everybody is listening this week, or can listen Monday through Thursday.Next week we ll go back to just Premium Members only for the No Spin News, a service for you.So, what we re going to do here is about fifteen minutes, twelve minutes of the headlines.
This is an extended Talking Points Memo that will cover the world each day.And then as we develop the website, we ll have guests and things like that, and this will become longer and longer and longer, into a genuine news program.That s the vision right now.I am sad that I m not on television anymore.
I was very surprised how it all turned out.
I can t say a lot, because there s much stuff going on right now.But I can tell you that I m very confident the truth will come out, and when it does, I don t know if you re going to be surprised but I think you re going to be shaken, as I am.
There s a lot of stuff involved here.Now, I can t say anymore because I just don t want to influence the flow of the information.
I don t want the media to take what I say and misconstrue it.
However you, as a loyal O Reilly listener, have a right to know, I think, down the lane what exactly happened.
And we are working in that direction, okay?Click on this LINKO'Reilly's back!
Check out Bill's first No Spin News since leaving FNC https://t.co/hiv184nXgU Bill O'Reilly (@billoreilly) April 24, 2017