Alleged president Donald Trump is plagued with scandals after being on the job for just a few weeks.
The amateur president frequently calls networks critical of his actions fake news while being supportive of Fox News.
Well the story unfolding right now about Trump and his disgraced former national security adviser is from Fox News.According to what a source told the network, Trump was given a comprehensive summary of the contents of Michael Flynn s phone calls with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak prior to Flynn s resignation.The summary of the transcript was delivered by people outside the White House.According what what Trump said recently, Flynn did nothing wrong.
But previously, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said that there was an erosion of trust with Flynn after the revelations of his talks to the ambassador about sanctions.
To be clear, this means that Flynn lied to Mike Pence.
Trump pretty much fired Flynn, but at the bizarre news conference Thursday, the Liar-In-Chief said, Mike was doing his job.
He was calling countries and his counterparts I would have directed him to do it if I thought he wasn t doing it.
I didn t direct him, but I would have directed him because that s his job, he added.
What Trump is saying is that he would have directed Flynn to take those actions while Obama was still in office.
Trump referred to Flynn as a wonderful man after his resignation knowing full well what took place.Last month, Flynn denied in an FBI interview that he discussed sanctions against Russia with the Russian ambassador.
That was a lie.
By the way, it s a felony to lie to the FBI.
Flynn led Lock her up!
chants at a Trump rally during the campaign saying that if he did 1/10th of what Hillary Clinton did, he d be in prison.
Off you go, Flynn!Let s let Seth Abrahamson break this down for us.BREAKING: Fox News is reporting Trump was fully briefed on the Flynn call with Russia after it happened and allowed Pence to be lied to.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) February 17, 2017BREAKING: Per FNC we know Trump either ordered the illegal Flynn call & tried to cover it up or just tried to cover it up.
One or the other.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) February 17, 2017Man, if only we had some historical precedent for what happens to a president when he is caught trying to cover up a crime.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) February 17, 2017Trump needs to release his taxes so we can see if he s beholden to Russia.
To reiterate, Trump knew about the calls and allowed his vice-president to be lied to.
Go on, Mr. Trump, call Fox News fake news now.
We ll wait here.Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images.