Senator Cory Booker was none too happy with what went on at the Republican National Convention.
The Los Angeles Times reports that the beloved New Jersey senator took to the microphone at a DNC press conference this week to express his anger over the chaotic convention, particularly with regards to the treatment of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.
Booker was very concerned that his colleagues on the other side of the aisle let their convention take on such a violently vitriolic tone, saying: These chants of lock someone up, take away their liberty, throw them in prisons that s why we had a revolution in this country against those ideas.
But what s worse on the spectrum of things that have been spewed in this convention, that s one of the least offensive.
He continued: And no one s condemning this in the Republican Party?
No one s saying this is not who America is?
Senator Booker even tweeted a photo of himself hugging Hillary Clinton, with a message of solidarity pushing back against the disturbing tone of the GOP convention:Proud to be in Cleveland supporting Secretary Clinton and pushing back against the hate, hyperbole and lies.
pic.twitter.com/jb2t0kH8jN Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) July 21, 2016Unfortunately, no, the RNC isn t condemning any of this.
While this isn t what America is, it is certainly what the Republican Party is.
All we have to do is look at the increasing violence at Donald Trump rallies that hasn t deterred people from supporting him at all.
In fact, Trump himself often encouraged that violence, right from the podium.Trump is the GOP now.
He s their standard-bearer, the leader of their party.
That s who they are.
They have put a violent, bigoted fascist at the top of their ticket and urged people to vote for him.
The hatred and bigotry running through that party is embodied in Donald Trump.
I, personally, am not at all surprised that party leaders like Reince Priebus, Paul Ryan, and Mitch McConnell said nothing about the lock her up chants and calls for violence against Hillary Clinton.
The Party of Lincoln is now the Party of Trump, and that is A-OK with the GOP.
After all, it s who they ve always been, but they just needed someone to be that voice.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images