A rather interesting detail has emerged about Donald Trump s mother that is threatening to derail part of Trump s campaign that he s heavily relied on to win over America s most racist voters.According to a recent report released by The National, Trump s mother, Mary Anne Macleod, was actually a poor Scottish immigrant that came to the United States to make a better life for herself a realization that stands in stark contrast to the story the business mogul has been telling.It shouldn t come as a shock that The Donald would hide the fact that his mother came to America with nothing but $50 in her purse.
Why wouldn t he want people to know that his mother came to the country dirt poor and became a multi-millionaire philanthropist, other than the fact that he has slammed immigrants all throughout his presidential campaign?
After all, his website says this: The influx of foreign workers holds down salaries, keeps unemployment high, and makes it difficult for poor and working-class Americans including immigrants themselves and their children to earn a middle-class wage.
Nearly half of all immigrants and their US-born children currently live in or near poverty, including more than 60 per cent of Hispanic immigrants.Every year, we voluntarily admit another two million new immigrants, guest workers, refugees, and dependents, growing our existing all-time historic record population of 42 million immigrants.We need to control the admission of new low-earning workers in order to: help wages grow, get teenagers back to work, aid minorities rise into the middle class, help schools and communities falling behind, and to ensure our immigrant members of the national family become part of the American dream.
The low-earning worker that Trump is trashing on his website is the very person his mother was when she left Scotland to come to America in 1930.
Despite that he has his mother to thank for the opportunities he was given, Trump can still find it in himself to say foolish, hateful things like, We re building a wall.
It s going to be a wall that is not nobody s going through my wall.
Trump builds walls.
I build walls.
The report by The National isn t the first time the fact that Trump is the son of an immigrant has threatened to ruin his hateful anti-immigrant rhetoric.
Earlier this year, Trump s former GOP rival Ted Cruz called Trump out during a childish birther fight.
Cruz said: The legal issue is quite straightforward, but I would note that the birther theories that Donald has been relying on, some of the more extreme ones insist that you must not only be born on U.S. soil, but have two parents born on U.S. soil.
Under that theory, not only would I be disqualified, Marco Rubio would be disqualified, Bobby Jindal would be disqualified, and interestingly enough, Donald J. Trump would be disqualified because Donald s mother was born in Scotland, You can watch that moment below:But before Cruz, Real Time s Bill Baher did an even more amazing job at highlighting the hypocrisy in Trump s immigration stance and it goes much deeper than his own mother.
Laying into the presumptive Republican nominee, Maher pointed out that two out of three of Trump s wives have been immigrants.
Maher said: Nobody brings this up about Donald Trump, who is always on about, We can t have foreigners coming into this country!
His first wife is from Czechoslovakia.
His current wife is from Slovenia.
So, if you think crawling under a wall is the most disgusting way to become an American, somewhere there is a Panamanian woman hiding in a truck full of chickens with ten pounds of heroin-filled condoms in her stomach who s thinking, Well, at least I didn t have to blow Donald Trump.
Featured image via Tom Lynn / Getty Images