Donald Trump and the GOP appear to have finally found the messaging that they are using to sell Trump s flip-flop on banning Muslims from entering the United States.During an interview on MSNBC s Meet the Press Sunday morning, Trump told the Chuck Todd that he doesn t consider his recent changes to his proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States a rollback.
I actually don t think it s a rollback.
In fact, you could say it s an expansion.
I m looking now at territory, Trump told Todd.
People were so upset when I used the word Muslim.
Oh, you can t use the word Muslim.
Remember this.
And I m okay with that, because I m talking territory instead of Muslim.
We re going to have tough standards, Trump went on to say.
And if a person can t prove that they re from an area, and if a person can t prove what they have to be able to prove, they re not coming into this country.
And I would stop the Syrian migration and a Syrian from coming into this country in two seconds.
Let s be clear, Trump s proposal is a rollback.
His initial call for a unilateral ban on Muslims entering the United States is both incredibly bigoted and unconstitutional.
It also happens to be impossible to enforce and would severely damage the United States reputation.
Even if Trump were to become president, it is hard to see how such a proposal would actually be implemented.That s why this rollbacked version of his proposal is actually far worse.
That s because it can actually be implemented.
While still divisive among the GOP, Trump would have far more support for his modified approval.
More than half of the governors in the United States want to ban Syrians from entering the United States as of last year.
There are even a few Democrats who would jump on board the xenophobia train.So, yes this is a rollback.
It s also an expansion as Trump refers to it, in the sense that it is something that could actually become policy.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhpwEO7b7eoFeatured image via video screenshot