The next time any flag waving, faux-patriotic Republican tells you President Obama didn t care about the troops, veterans, or the welfare of the American public, tell them that he donated over $1 million to various charitable causes.
Then ask them how braggadocios he was about it.That s right, President Obama, during his time in office, not only saved the country from economic collapse, but used his own money to help his fellow countrymen.
According to a Forbes analysis of his tax returns from 2009 to 2015, 54 percent of all donations went to various organizations that help children.However, the biggest recipient of President Obama s generosity was the Fisher House Foundation, which is tasked with supporting the families of veterans.
This organization received over $390,000 over the course of Obama s eight years in office.
This donation s were given on behalf of the royalties President Obama accumulated from his children s book, Of Thee I Sing.According to Forbes:He gave away $190,000 more to children s causes, including $48,000 to Boys & Girls Clubs.
He also gave away $19,500 to the Mosaic Youth Theatre of Detroit.
Another $13,500 went to the Christopher House, a Chicago-based group that supports poor working families.
Even after he moved to Washington, Obama remained loyal to his Chicago roots.
He poured $11,500 into the Midtown Educational Foundation, which offers enrichment programs to poor urban youth in the Windy City, and he gave $20,500 to two groups fighting hunger in Illinois The $1.1 million of donations Obama declared on his tax returns also do not include the $1.4 million he directed the Nobel Committee to give 10 charities after he won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009.
The biggest recipient of those funds was, again, the Fisher House Foundation, which got $250,000.
Another $200,000 went to the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund, and most of the rest went to various scholarship funds.Remember when Republicans made fun of President Obama for being a community organizer and working to make Chicago a better place?
Even when busy running the free-world, he never turned his back on where he came from or the people who put him where he is.
That s a class act.Perhaps the most telling was how the president doled out his own money in the face of heartbreaking national tragedies.
The Forbes analysis shows that President Obama gave $2,000 to a fund for families and victims affected by the Boston bombing in 2013.
That same year, he gave $2,000 to the Sandy Hook Promise Foundation.
Remember when conservatives mocked him for crying over these tragedies?While president, Obama made over $10 million, with a majority (75 percent) of that coming from book royalties.
That means President Obama gave 11 percent of his earnings to charity.Contrast that to Donald Trump who is worth $4.5 billion.
Because Donald Trump refuses to release his taxes, it is not know just how much he gives to charity.
According to Forbes:Filings for the Donald J. Trump Foundation reveal that he gave $0 to his own charitable foundation from 2009 to 2014, the most recent year on record.
(He donated $2.8 million from 2001 to 2008.)
After he stopped giving in 2009, other donors gave $4.4 million to the Trump foundation over the next six years, which Trump in turn doled out to various groups, apparently fooling some recipients into thinking the money came from him.Yeah Donald Trump cares, and Obama is the heartless elitist.
Sure.
Whatever you say.I would love to see how much Rush Limbaugh, Ann Coulter, Sean Hannity, Bill O Reilly, Tomi Lahren and the other conservative frauds have given to the troops and their families.Simply put, President Obama was and still is a generous, compassionate, loving human being.
He truly loves this country and the people who make it great.
The haters are all talk, no action all while collecting a paycheck while faking support.Read more:Featured image via Darren Hauck/Getty Images