Republican front-runner Donald Trump has caused a lot of outrage since stepping into the race for the White House, and with good reason.
The billionaire is the worst person to run for the highest office since white supremacist George Wallace in 1968.
But for all the anger he has caused, he s also given comedians a whole lot of material.
The latest comedian to capitalize on the Trump train wreck is Russell Brand and it is hilarious.Brand has long been a champion of economic and social justice in both the United States and the U.K.
The comedian often speaks out about politics and once said: I have never voted.
Like most people I am utterly disenchanted by politics.
Like most people I regard politicians as frauds and liars and the current political system as nothing more than a bureaucratic means for furthering the augmentation and advantages of economic elites.
Although, I don t agree with him not taking advantage of his right to vote in the U.K., I do agree that lots of people have become disenchanted with politics.
Actually, part of the reason Donald Trump has risen to the top of the GOP race is because he isn t part of the establishment and his imbecilic fan club believes he is honest but, I digress.Brand has a successful v-blog called The Trew News which has unfortunately been on hiatus for the last six months.
However, on Tuesday, the comedian surprised us all by posting a short new video online where he absolutely pummels Trump.
In the video titled Trump Pixar-Hitler or aged-baby?
Brand says: I like him cause he s like a big rich baby.
I just want to breastfeed him.
Come here you silly c*nt, have a bit of t*t-milk.
He is like a giant, rich baby and he proves it every time he lashes out at people who do not give him what he wants.
He d be a disaster for this country and everyone knows it, even comedians from other countries.
We are a laughingstock all over the world thanks to him and all the dumbasses who support him.Watch the rest of Brand s remarks in his video: Featured image via Instagram