Joe Biden once again demonstrated why the American people love him so much.During her confirmation hearing, Betsy DeVos was grilled by the Senate.
Her lack of qualifications and opposition to public education made it clear that she should not be the Secretary of Education.
But her family has bought politicians over the years so it s surprise that she had enough Republicans in her pocket to narrowly get confirmed.One of the big questions DeVos refused to answer was about sexual assault on college campuses.
Under the Obama Administration, Title IX was interpreted to also mean that colleges must work to stop sexual assault on campus.
When asked about this, Devos balked.
Senator, I know that there s a lot of conflicting ideas and opinions around that guidance and if confirmed I would look forward to working with you and your colleagues and understand the range of opinion and understand the issues from the higher-ed institutions that are charged with resolving these and addressing them and I would look forward to working together to find some resolutions, DeVos said.After being pressed to answer, DeVos replied, It would be premature for me to do that today.
After being confirmed, she finally answered the question by revoking the guidance set up by President Obama and declared on the Department of Education website, This is an issue best solved at the state and local level.
In other words, DeVos is perfectly happy to continue letting rape culture continue on college campuses.
She won t lift a finger to help women.And that makes Joe Biden angry.
It bothers me most if Secretary DeVos is going to really dumb down Title IX enforcement, Biden told Teen Vogue.
The real message, the real frightening message you re going to send out is, our culture says it s OK. You know, the major reason why women drop out of college when they re a freshman is because of sexual assault.
Not their grades, sexual assault.
And so, it would be devastating.
Biden went on to slam DeVos for enabling rapists and said parents should not have to worry about safety on college campuses.No father or mother should drop their kid off this late August, early September at their first day at college and drive away worried [if she is] going to be safe.
Parents don t drive away saying, Is she going to do all right in school?
Is she academically qualified?
Will she show up for class?
How well is she going to do?
That s not the conversation going on.
The conversation that s going on is, is she going to be safe?
That is an obligation of the school, and Title IX is the vehicle, and when Secretary DeVos by her silence didn t affirm that rape and sexual assault are forms of sexual discrimination God, if anything is sexual discrimination, it s rape and assault.
And that s why schools have an obligation under Title IX to prevent this from happening.Indeed, parents should only have to worry about how well their daughters will do in school, not about if some asshole is going to violate their bodies.By ignoring sexual assault on college campuses, Betsy DeVos is part of the problem.
And when young women are raped and the rapists get away with it, DeVos should be held responsible.
She is in a position of power to do something about this and if she won t do it she should be dragged into court alongside the rapist.Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images