Last week, Private Investigator Rod Wheeler appeared on Fox5 news in DC with an update in the unsolved murder of DNC IT expert Seth Rich, claiming proof exists on Rich s laptop proving he was Julian Assange s source for leaked DNC emails during the 2016 election an account in direct conflict to the Russian hacking narrative based on a discredited IT firm s report.Wheeler walked back his statements the next day, however the fuse was already lit Weaponized autists on Reddit and 4chan began furiously digging back into the Seth Rich case for clues in the still unsolved murder and they went deep.Among the findings were Seth Rich s Reddit account, email addresses, and Twitter accounts one of which was in support of candidate Bernie Sanders.
As an aside before joining the DNC, Rich moved to Washington DC to take a job with polling and research firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner whose founder Stanley Greenberg was a senior advisor to President Bill Clinton.Reddit s the_donald goes darkAs Seth Rich posts reached a crescendo Friday night dominating the front page of /r/The_Donald, the Conde Nast-linked website shut the subreddit down for around 12 hours following a moderator s unrelated declaration of war on the rest of Reddit over censorship completely killing the Seth Rich momentum.
When The_Donald was reopened, officially to aid the Seth Rich effort the offending moderator had been banned and two other mods were removed from their positions.
Seth Rich posts, however, are notably sparse.
Oh, and Reddit edited Seth Rich s account during the lockout.Meanwhile in New ZealandKim Dotcom is pissed and has been plotting revenge against Hillary Clinton, Obama, and Hollywood after being targeted in the biggest copyright infringement case in history which included a massive illegal (and then legal) raid on his New Zealand mansion by 76 armed officers and two helicopters.Dotcom tweets that Democrats attacked his family and stole his assets in a copyright infringement case and appears to be suggesting that he was paying them back by sending Rich s DNC emails to Wikileaks:Democrats destroyed my business, attacked my family, stole my assets in a pay4play strike for the @MPAACounterstrike:Trump Presidency Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom) May 19, 2017Sean Hannity has offered Dotcom a national platform (which Kim retweeted)I knew Seth Rich.
I know he was the @Wikileaks source.
I was involved.
https://t.co/MbGQteHhZM Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom) May 20, 2017Dotcom accepts Hannity s offer to expose the DNC hacker on his Tuesday night show:Stay tuned.
Public invitation Kim Dotcom to be a guest on radio and TV.
#GameChanger Buckle up destroy Trump media.
Sheep that u all are!!!
https://t.co/3qLwXCGl6z Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 20, 2017Kim Dot.com hits the Democrats and their #FakeNews partners with this tweet where he s putting them on notice that they re about to be exposed:How will Democrats and their #FakeNews partners brush away the fact that I had insider knowledge about upcoming leaks?
#SethRich https://t.co/SwFLGbeUbQ Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom) May 21, 2017Meanwhile, Wikileaks founder Julian Assange just doubled down on his silence about #SethRich being the DNC leaker with this interesting tweet this morning that Kim Dot.com retweeted:WikiLeaks has never disclosed a source.
Sources sometimes talk to other parties but identities never emerge from WikiLeaks.
#SethRich Julian Assange (@JulianAssange) May 22, 2017Sean Hannity, Rush Limbaugh and Newt Gingrich all discussed the mysterious murder of DNC staffer last week, who, according to Rich s parents was getting ready to work for Hillary s campaign when he was murdered on his way home from a local bar late at night.
Here is a compilation of Hannity and Limbaugh s remarks on the Rich case:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KXn6FzWBS4oWhy were no employees of Joe s City Bar where Rich was last seen questioned about his final hours leading up to his murder?
Why was the surveillance tape in the bar not seen by investigators?
WND A manager of the Washington, D.C., bar where Democratic National Committee worker Seth Rich was last spotted hours before he was shot and killed last summer told WND that D.C. police officers never interviewed the bar s staff or requested any evidence from the bar, including the bar s surveillance video from that night, as part of an investigation into Rich s murder.The revelation backs up a claim made by a private investigator who worked on the case who said D.C. police were told to stand down on the investigation.WND also can report that the investigator recently was ordered to cease and desist his work on the murder case.
The police never asked for the surveillance video from that night, a manager of Lou s City Bar told WND.His name is being withheld for this story.He said the bar s surveillance video runs in a cycle of 30 days and that, by now, any footage that may have existed of Rich the last night he was seen alive has been taped over.Furthermore, the manager said police never asked for any other kind of evidence from the bar such as Rich s bar receipt from that night.
The manager did note he wasn t sure if Rich paid using a credit card or cash.
Seth Rich s girlfriend, best friend and parents all speak out about the brutal murder that DC detectives are calling a botched robbery that left Rich dead while leaving all of his valuables, including his wallet on his person.
Seth Rich s parents admitted that after Seth was shot, police reported that he was quite talkative .
If Seth was quite talkative, then why aren t there any leads on his killers?
Seth s parents appear to be Hillary sycophants.
They appear to be very proud of their son as they tell Crime Watch Daily that he was just getting ready to go to work for Hillary s campaign.
They also adamantly stand behind the Democrat Party and claim they are angered by any claim that a hit was ordered on Rich by online citizen journalists.As more and more evidence is being revealed about Rich s possible role as the leaker of the DNC emails to Wikileaks, the attitude of Seth s parents towards citizen journalists has taken a surprising turn.
In this video that was just released, Rich s parents appear to be praising the work of citizen journalists that are forcing the investigation into Seth Rich s death via social media.https://twitter.com/RedPillDropper/status/866071104112209921According to research conducted by a 4Chan citizen journalists, Joseph Capone, the owner of Lou s City Bar where Rich was last seen alive, visited the East Wing of the White House 4 days before the murder of Seth Rich.A visit by a Joseph P. Capone to the East Wing of the White House on July is verified on the government White House visitor log website.
We cannot verify that this is the same Joe Capone who owns Lou s City bar where Seth was last seen.
According the White House Museum website, the East Wing is reserved for the first lady and her staff, including the White House social secretary and correspondence staff.
:Crime Watch Daily investigated the murder of Seth Rich and compiled an interesting video that includes interviews with Seth s girlfriend, best friend and parents.Although there are pockets of darkness, for the most part this neighborhood is pretty well-lit.
Investigators tell Crime Watch Daily in the early morning hours of July 10, Seth was walking home.
He was only about a block and a half away from home when he was gunned down, shot in the back.
The officers who were there and they said Yeah, he was quite talkative, he did not realize he had been shot,' said Joel Rich, Seth s father.But an hour and a half later at a nearby hospital, Seth was pronounced dead.Heartbreaking news to Kelsey Mulka.
She was just on the phone with him, and in a split-second he was gone.
Now Mulka is breaking news in our exclusive interview, revealing details, telling Crime Watch Daily there was no sign of trouble in his voice that terrible morning.