Donald Trump attacked the First Amendment on Tuesday and George Takei clobbered him for it.Trump called for jailing Americans who burn the flag, and suggested they be stripped of their citizenship as further punishment.Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag if they do, there must be consequences perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2016Burning the flag is a form of expression that is protected by the Constitution.
The Supreme Court has ruled that way twice, and that included support from Justice Antonin Scalia, whom conservatives often hail as a hero.Trump s tweet immediately drew massive condemnation from people on both sides of the aisle.
Even Fox legal analyst Andrew Napolitano blasted Trump for his blatantly unconstitutional statement.But Trump also pissed off someone else.George Takei also went after Trump.
And his perspective on the subject gives him far more standing on this subject than Trump will ever have.I pledged allegiance to the flag every morning inside an internment camp.
I would never burn one, but I d die to protect the right to do so.
https://t.co/O5ecSQkyC2 George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 29, 2016If anyone had reason to burn a flag it s George Takei.
He never did so, but that was his choice.
Despite this, he is still defending people who choose to burn it because it s freedom of expression.
And Takei actually made another point.
There are people who have been mistreated under our flag in this country.
Taking away their right to express their anger would only marginalize people and that is not right.Takei wasn t done though.
He posted another tweet later reminding Trump that he is responsible for protecting and defending the Constitution now, so he better do his damn job.Mr.
Trump, one of your sacred duties as President will be to uphold the Constitution.
That means honoring and protecting free speech.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) November 29, 2016A lot of people may find the act of burning the flag reprehensible and that s their right.
But there are also those who see burning a flag as a message to the government in opposition of a policy or a lack of action to fix an issue.
Silencing this form of expression would be tyrannical.
If Trump is allowed to take away this form of freedom of speech, nothing stops him from taking away other freedoms as well.
At that point, we might as well rip up the Constitution.Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images