It s not news to say that Donald Trump is a phony.
He s neither a great businessman nor as wealthy as he says he is.
He contradicts his own words far more often than he contradicts the words of his opponent.So, who is the real Donald Trump, and does he believe a single word of what he says?
Well, we can t know that for sure, but what we do know is that in 2008, Trump was a Hillary Clinton supporter.
In fact, he called her fantastic in a Fox News (yes, Fox News) interview.
Now, to be fair, he also said he was a fan of Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney.
He also, despite not knowing much about him, called Barack Obama very capable.
Even eight years ago, Trump was asked whether he would ever run for president.
He said he would probably never run because -you read this right he s too honest.
Here s the video:That s wasn t the first or the last time Trump praised the woman who s standing in his way of becoming Dictator in Chief.
Last month, Clinton put out an ad showing Trump heaping her with praise.The ad features the words, Donald Trump reveals the truth about Hillary Clinton and shows Trump saying on FOX News, Hillary Clinton, I think, is a terrific woman.
In another clip, Trump praises her and Bill Clinton, saying, I know her very well and I know her husband very well, and I like them both They are just really terrific people.
The ad also quotes Trump praising Hillary Clinton as a smart, tough and a very nice person, and said, She really works hard, and I think she does a good job.
Source: TimeDoes it really matter what Trump said about Hillary Clinton in the past?
He can t even keep his story straight about what he said yesterday.
The damage here is not that he s contradicting himself.
His supporters really don t care about that.
The damage here is that Trump s supporters hate Hillary Clinton even more than they like Trump.
If we could somehow play this on a nonstop loop at Walmart or wherever Trump supporters congregate, we might see a rash of exploding heads.Featured image via video screen capture.