Far too many people don t understand the awesome simplicity of the Republican war on women.
They try to analyze the underlying causes; blame some on religion, some on chauvinism.
Overthinking is a strictly Democratic problem.
To the good ol white boys club of the GOP, women are just inferior creatures in need of nurturing: weak and restrained; helpless at best.
Yeah, sadly it really is just that simple to figure out why their war exists.
They have no respect for their mothers.
Ouch OK, that was harsh.
Republicans, in general, find women to be beneath them.
Republican women depend on their men because their fathers told them to, just like their mothers told them to just pull the Republican lever and vote the straight ticket.Naturally when the time came to review the guidelines for selective service, Republicans went bonkers.
It seems women have always been exempted from the draft because they weren t allowed to be in combat roles and the draft is for extreme-case national emergencies where combat would be likely.
Things have changed.
Women are now allowed in not some but ALL combat roles if they can pass the training the same as a man.
Two women made national headlines as the first members of the Army Rangers earlier this year, they probably would have gladly signed up at 18 for the draft we haven t used since we stopped sending kids off to be slaughtered in Vietnam in 1973.Republicans still can t reconcile.
Rep Duncan Hunter (R-CA) told The Hill: The draft is there to get more people to rip the enemy s throats out.
I don t want to see my daughters put in a place where they have to get drafted.
You mean you wouldn t want to see your daughters treated as equals among their peers.
You wouldn t want to witness how incredibly strong any human being can be when put into extraordinary circumstances.
You want them at home, right next to your sons, watching the horrors of war turned into a game show on Fox News.
It s difficult as a father to imagine your daughters trotting off to war.
It s just as difficult to imagine my son going.
Hunter was right.
The draft is there for extreme situations to get more people to rip the enemy s throat out.
Do we just keep searching through the men and eliminate half the population s prospective ability to do just that?
I don t know if these old men have been paying attention, but women aren t the delicate flowers they once were in the stone age when they were kids.The amendment passed the Armed Services Committee and moves forward to the house floor where a bunch more men will debate how awful it would be for their daughters to fight for their country and their freedom while they happily send the sons of the poor and working class and anyone who commits a misdemeanor who has a penis.
There are a ton of exemptions available for people to be excluded from the draft, and certainly motherhood would be one.
Don t worry, Republicans, there won t be moms pushing strollers across battlefields just yet.Featured image from Daniel Bendji/Getty Images