Just when you thought support of Donald Trump would drop to zero it turns out there is still one group that backs him 100 percent.
Despite claiming to be all about family values and biblical principles, conservative evangelical leaders still refuse to revoke their endorsement of the Republican nominee.In 1995, Trump made vulgar comments about women while bragging to Access Hollywood reporter Billy Bush that he can grope any woman he wants because he is famous.
You know I m automatically attracted to beautiful I just start kissing them, Trump said.
It s like a magnet.
Just kiss.
I don t even wait.
And when you re a star they let you do it.
You can do anything.
Grab them by the p*ssy.
The offensive remarks were finally enough to cause many Republicans to condemn Trump and call for him to drop out of the race.But conservative Christian leaders like Family Research Council president Tony Perkins and Faith and Freedom Coalition president Ralph Reed say they both still support and want Trump to be President of the United States.
My personal support for Donald Trump has never been based upon shared values, it is based upon shared concerns about issues such as: justices on the Supreme Court that ignore the constitution, America s continued vulnerability to Islamic terrorists and the systematic attack on religious liberty that we ve seen in the last 7 1/2 years, Perkins said.
Voters of faith are voting on issues like who will protect unborn life, defend religious freedom, create jobs, and oppose the Iran nuclear deal, added Reed.
Ten-year-old tapes of private conversation with a television talk show host rank very low on their hierarchy of concerns.
Wow.These two so-called men of God are literally still supporting Donald Trump and think his remarks aren t a big deal at all.
And they have the nerve to call themselves Christians.
It makes one wonder what it will take to make these assholes change their minds about Trump?Because sexually assaulting women certainly doesn t bother them at all.
And frankly, they should be ousted from their positions and ostracized by the Christian community they claim to represent.Featured image via Wikimedia