For as smug as he always appears to be, Donald Trump Jr. might want to wipe that entitled grin off his face.
Especially when he finds out he may be going to prison.According to the New York Times: President Trump s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton before agreeing to meet with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer during the 2016 campaign, according to three advisers to the White House briefed on the meeting and two others with knowledge of it.
And now, coming forward is Richard Painter, a former White House ethics lawyer who served under former President George W. Bush, and is telling us that what Trump Jr. has allegedly done borders on treason.
Painter said: This was an effort to get opposition research on an opponent in an American political campaign from the Russians, who were known to be engaged in spying inside the United States We do not get our opposition research from spies, we do not collaborate with Russian spies, unless we want to be accused of treason.
Adding: If this story is true, we d have one of them if not both of them in custody by now, and we d be asking them a lot of questions This is unacceptable.
This borders on treason, if it is not itself treason.
The punishment for treason is: Whoever, owing allegiance to the United States, levies war against them or adheres to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort within the United States or elsewhere, is guilty of treason and shall suffer death, or shall be imprisoned not less than five years and fined under this title but not less than $10,000; and shall be incapable of holding any office under the United States.
It is absolutely one of the worst crimes, if not the worst crime, one can commit against one s nation.
If true, it also shows that Trump s presidential campaign absolutely did collude with Russia in the months leading up to the 2016 election.Here s Painter on MSNBC: Bush 43 WH ethics lawyer on NYT story/Donald Trump Jr. and Kushner meeting with Russian lawyer: This borders on treason via @MSNBC pic.twitter.com/Ceu5xLYgnB Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) July 9, 2017Featured Photo by Getty Images