There s a lot being said about football players across the NFL standing together in unity against police brutality.
This is even more pertinent now, as even more black men have been gunned down in the street just this week by police.Using his press conference to bring further awareness to this topic was none other than Seattle Seahawks star cornerback Richard Sherman.
He said: I m not going to answer any questions today, and it s no offense to you guys, but the state of things in the world today is very interesting.
I think you have players that are trying to take a stand and be aware of social issues and try to make a stand and increase people s awareness and put a spotlight on it and they re being ignored.
Whether they re taking a knee or whether they re locking arms, you know, they re trying to bring people together and united them for a cause.
And I think that the last couple days a couple more guys have gotten shot and killed in the middle of the street and more videos have come out of guys getting killed, and I think people are still missing the point.The reason these guys are kneeling.
The reason we re locking arms is to bring people together.
To make people aware that this is not right.
You know, it s not right for people to get killed in the street.
Sherman then explains how he s been proactive in the community and even needing to go so far as to train young people of color on how to behave with the police, but still being fearful that they might get shot.
He says, that s an unfortunate time to be living.
Especially when people are being killed for no reason.He then has some choice words by those who are supposedly offended by those standing up against police brutality by quietly using their First Amendment right of dissent and protest to bring awareness to the plight.
Sherman says: When a guy takes a knee, you can ignore it.
You can say he s not being patriotic.
He s not honoring the flag.
I m doing none of those things.
I m saying straight up, this is wrong and we need to do something.
And something most certainly needs to be done, and done now.Watch Sherman speak here:Wow this is a must-watch.Seattle Seahawks Richard Sherman addresses police killings of African American men at presser, then walks out.
pic.twitter.com/GOAOSgufAx Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) September 22, 2016Featured image via video screen capture