You know what s adorable?
When a white supremacist Christian attempts to Jesus his or her way out of trouble after getting caught being him or herself.
In this case, we re talking about West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey s now-former spokeswoman s participation in an extremely popular white supremacist propaganda video.
THE Stop White Genocide Video features a bunch of women reciting lines from The Mantra, a sort of ode to whiteness written by popular South Carolina racist Bob Whitaker.
The video, which boasts that is has previously been removed from YouTube and that it is banned in 18 countries, features Carrie Bowe reciting many lines that will surely embarrass everyone she holds dear.
One line spoken by Bowe lays the groundwork for a string of hate speech even your racist, drunk uncle wouldn t break out at Thanksgiving dinner:I ve been thinking a lot about a phrase I ve been hearing: that anti-racist is a code-word for anti-white.The women, including Bowe, complain about the obvious truth about the ongoing program of genocide against the white race.
In fact, the former spokeswoman even has the final speaking line: Anti-racist is a code word for anti-white.
Bowe, who started working for WV s Republican attorney general in January 2015, was fired within hours of the Charleston Gazette-Mail exposing her role in the racist video.
The employee s conduct and statements, which occurred years before being employed by the attorney general s office, were not previously disclosed until today, which is contrary to the transparency requirements for being a member of this office, do not reflect the opinion or the perspective of the attorney general or this office, Morrisey spokesman Curtis Johnson wrote in a statement regarding the termination.Bowe inexplicably claims that she didn t know what the finished product would look like despite the horrific phrases she personally spouts off in the white supremacist garbage video.
In a post on Facebook, she attempts to garner sympathy from her friends by not even mentioning what she did:Bowe told West Virginia Public Broadcasting that she is embarrassed and heartbroken because she thought the video was meant to further discussion on race relation from a white perspective an assertion easily disproved by the very choice phrases she spoke.
Growing up, you could not question why some races could talk or behave a certain way and it was seen as OK, whereby if the behavior was repeated by a white person, it was automatically racist, Bowe explained.
As a child and a teenager, the inability to even question this was confusing and, really, the opposite of the honest dialogue we need to have in order to understand different cultures and their history better.
She has not explained how the final solution to the black problem she references ties into an open, healthy discussion on race relations.One must wonder: was she fired because she spouted off KKK rhetoric, or was it because Morissey wants to be re-elected?
In any case, we re sure there s a spot for her with the Trump campaign.Watch the video below:Featured image via screengrab