Well, well, well As a famous reverend once said, Obama s chickens have come home too roost OR AS MIKE HUCKABEE SAID:.
@GovMikeHuckabee: I think it's easier to find Bigfoot and Amelia Earhart than it is to find collusion between the Russians and Donald Trump pic.twitter.com/RA68QqD9kG Fox News (@FoxNews) October 29, 2017Obama for America (OFA), the former president s political organization, has directed nearly a million dollars to the very same law firm that funneled money to Fusion GPS, the firm behind the infamous Steele dossier.Since April of 2016, Obama For America (OFA) has paid over $972,000 to Perkins Coie, records filed with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) show.The Washington Post reported last week that Perkins Coie, an international law firm, was directed by both the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and Hillary Clinton s campaign to retain Fusion GPS in April of 2016 to dig up dirt on then-candidate Donald Trump.
Fusion GPS then hired Christopher Steele, a former British spy, to compile a dossier of allegations that Trump and his campaign actively colluded with the Russian government during the 2016 election.
Though many of the claims in the dossier have been directly refuted, none of the dossier s allegations of collusion have been independently verified.
Lawyers for Steele admitted in court filings last April that his work was not verified and was never meant to be made public.FEC records as well as federal court records show that Marc Elias, the Perkins Coie lawyer whom the Washington Post reported was responsible for the payments to Fusion GPS on behalf of Clinton s campaign and the DNC, also previously served as a counsel for OFA.
In Shamblin v. Obama for America, a 2013 case in federal court in Florida, federal court records list Elias as simultaneously serving as lead attorney for both OFA and the DNC.OFA, which managed Obama s successful re-election campaign in 2012, retooled after that campaign to focus on enacting the president s agenda during his final term in office.
The group reorganized again after the 2016 election and planned to use its staff and resources to oppose President Donald Trump.
During the entire 2016 campaign cycle, the group spent only $4.5 million, according to FEC records.Federal records show that Hillary Clinton s official campaign organization, Hillary For America, paid just under $5.1 million to Perkins Coie in 2016.
The DNC paid nearly $5.4 million to the law firm in 2016.The timing and nature of the payments to Perkins Coie by Obama s official campaign arm raise significant questions about whether OFA was funding Fusion GPS, how much Obama and his team knew about the contents and provenance of the dossier long before its contents were made public, and whether the president or his government lieutenants knowingly used a partisan political document to justify official government actions targeting the president s political opponents named in the dossier.
According to the Washington Post, Fusion GPS was first retained by Perkins Coie on behalf of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and Hillary Clinton s presidential campaign in April of 2016.At the same time that Hillary s campaign, Obama s campaign organization, and the DNC were simultaneously paying Perkins Coie, the spouse of one of Fusion GPS s key employees was working directly for Obama in the West Wing.
Shailagh Murray, a former Washington Post reporter-turned-political operative, was serving as a top communications adviser to Obama while the Obama administration was reportedly using information from the dossier to justify secret surveillance of Trump campaign staff.
Murray is married to Neil King, a former Wall Street Journal reporter who was hired by Fusion GPS in December of 2016.
While at the Wall Street Journal, King worked alongside Fusion GPS s core team, even sharing bylines with Glenn Simpson, the Fusion GPS executive who personally hired Steele to probe Trump s alleged Russia connections.As you might suspect, Neil King was a thick as thieves with CNN, the WSJ and the Washington Post.
The lines between investigating the truth and fake news were blurred in a big way when King and Catan jumped from the WSJ to Fusion GPS.
As the Daily Caller reported:CNN s reporting on the Trump-Russia dossier has left out at least one crucial fact: the close ties between the network and the opposition research firm at the center of the dossier controversy.CNN s reporting on the dossier, led by justice correspondent Evan Perez, has been favorable to the firm, Fusion GPS, and hyped the dossier s credibility.
Left out of Perez s reporting, which has relied largely on unnamed sources, is his personal closeness to Fusion GPS operatives.
Fusion has repeatedly been described in Senate testimonies as a smear-for-hire operation that manufactures misleading or false media narratives for its clients.
Another Fusion founder, Tom Catan, worked as a reporter for the Journal at the same time as Perez and Simpson.
The third Fusion co-founder, Peter Fritsch, worked above Perez and Simpson as the senior national security editor.KING (FUSION GPS) ON THE RIGHT -Photo posted on Facebook by Perez (CNN)Simpson and Fritsch left the WSJ in 2011 to launch Fusion.
Perez jumped from the paper to CNN in 2013.
Another longtime Journal reporter, Neil King, left the paper to join Fusion in December 2016.PEREZ ( LEFT) AND ALL OF FUSION The importance of the fake dossier and how it was shopped around to the press comes into focus when you realize that Obama, Clinton and the DNC had Fusion GPS create this smear campaign on Trump.
This also opened the door for the phony Russia collusion investigation whereby the Trump campaign and family members were spied on because of something fake.Read more: The Federalist