John Kerry and Al Gore are jubilant that we ve struck a deal (sort of) to limit carbon emissions what a couple of jokesters these guys are.
It s really embarrassing that all these important people came together to discuss the weather and NOT our most pressing topic of what to do about terrorism.
This is what happens when you let the liberals rule unicorns and rainbows:John Kerry told fellow negotiators, it will help the world prepare for the impacts of climate change that are already here and also for those that we already know are on our way inevitably.
He added the pact would prevent the worst most devastating consequences of climate change from ever happening.
A deal to attempt to limit the rise in global temperatures to less than 2C has been agreed at the climate change summit in Paris after two weeks of intense negotiations.
The pact is the first to commit all countries to cut carbon emissions.
The agreement is partly legally binding and partly voluntary.
Earlier, key blocs, including the G77 group of developing countries, and nations such as China and India said they supported the proposals.
President of the UN climate conference of parties (COP) and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said: I now invite the COP to adopt the decision entitled Paris Agreement outlined in the document.
Looking out to the room I see that the reaction is positive, I see no objections.
The Paris agreement is adopted.
As he struck the gavel to signal the adoption of the deal, delegates rose to their feet cheering and applauding.John Kerry told fellow negotiators, it will help the world prepare for the impacts of climate change that are already here and also for those that we already know are on our way inevitably.
He added the pact would prevent the worst most devastating consequences of climate change from ever happening.
Former U.S. vice president Al Gore says years from now, our grandchildren will reflect on humanity s moral courage to solve the climate crisis.
And they will look to December 12, 2015, as the day when the community of nations finally made the decision to act.
South African environment minister Edna Molewa calls the pact the best we can get at this historic moment.
She says it can map a turning point to a better and safer world but she added that developed countries still have to cut emissions more and help poorer nations to counter the effects of global warming.READ MORE: BBCRead more: AP