Vladimir Putin s name used to be mud with the majority of Americans.
Americans opinion of the Russian leader have traditionally been lukewarm.
But ever since Putin spearheaded a campaign to at Trump s request hack the U.S. President-elect s political enemies and spread poisonous political propaganda demonizing Hillary Clinton, the right wing s opinions of Vlad have been rising fast.Here is Republicans and Democrats on Vladimir Putin since July 2014. pic.twitter.com/s4I6FY5cbt Will Jordan (@williamjordann) December 14, 2016At around the time that it became known that Russia was interfering in our election in a manner that benefits Donald Trump, conservatives suddenly decided that Vladimir Putin is their hero.
When Trump won the election thanks to Vlad s assistance, their approval rating of the Russian president skyrocketed.This party before country attitude has become a hallmark of the Republican Party, but it has never been as clearly demonstrated as their reaction to a foreign power, with full knowledge and participation of the country s leader, interfering in our elections by hacking one candidate s opponent and her allies.
While we recognize that this is terrifying no matter who does it and no matter who benefits, Republicans are cool with it because it helped The Donald secure a kinda-sorta victory and Stephen King is more than happy to call them out for it in the form of a fun little story:Once upon a time, children, the Republicans didn't like the Russians.
Then a good elf named Putin came along, and all that changed.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) December 15, 2016King has pretty much spent this entire month having fun at Trump and Republicans expense:Trump's tweets display hysteria, aggression, paranoia, insecurity.
Politics aside, his mental state bears close watching.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) December 2, 2016After checking Twitter, Molly aka the Thing of Evil thinks the red-suited invader is Trump-A-Claus.
She's watching for orange hair.
pic.twitter.com/bVRyyjuzxS Stephen King (@StephenKing) December 6, 2016Trump's mental condition is open to debate, I suppose; that he's an incompetent asshat seems undeniable.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) December 7, 2016Trump's proposed cabinet is the worst in American history: a motley crew of plunder-monkeys.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) December 10, 2016Trump's crew of plunder-monkeys has begun to look like the Polituro West.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) December 15, 2016The mystery of why Republicans are completely willing to throw away any sense of decency or loyalty to their country to support a foreign leader corrupting our elections while they simultaneously wave flags and proclaim their love of this nation is unlikely to be solved anytime soon, but one thing is for certain: Trump s time in office will be one of the darkest periods our nation has faced in quite some time.Featured image via screengrab/Getty Images (Drew Angerer)