Does this mean Republicans in the House are FINALLY going to start standing up for the Americans who elected them to be their representatives in Washington DC?
Does this action represent the change we re all desperate to see now that Boehner is vacating his seat?
House Republicans on Tuesday introduced a resolution to impeach IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, accusing him of making false statements under oath and failing to comply with a subpoena for evidence.In case you ve forgotten, here are two of the most powerful testimonies exposing the tyranny of our government we have ever posted on our website:Our friend Becky Gerritson (who is currently running for a seat in our US Congress):https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UE4_MT8MkIAAnd then there was the powerful testimony by Founder and Chairman of True the Vote, Catherine Engelbrecht:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=db21AQu30XwHouse Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, and 18 other committee members introduced the resolution to begin impeachment proceedings.
In doing so, they followed through on a threat first made over the summer, when Republicans accused the IRS leader of making inaccurate statements to Congress regarding the Tea Party targeting scandal and its aftermath.
Commissioner Koskinen violated the public trust, Chaffetz said in a statement Tuesday.
He failed to comply with a congressionally issued subpoena, documents were destroyed on his watch, and the public was consistently misled.
Impeachment is the appropriate tool to restore public confidence in the IRS and to protect the institutional interests of Congress.
The IRS issued a statement later Thursday saying, The IRS vigorously disputes the allegations in the resolution.
We have fully cooperated with all of the investigations.
The announcement of the impeachment resolution comes on the same day Koskinen testified before the Senate Finance Committee, and after the Justice Department on Friday decided to close its investigation of the targeting scandal without pursuing criminal charges.
Via: FOX News