Just about every journalist who was waiting took to Twitter to report the incident of verbal harassment by Donald Trump s top adviser.As Trump continues to expect and demand that the media say nothing but good thing about him and his administration, Steve Bannon undermined him by directly insulting the many reporters who were lined up waiting outside of White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer s office on Wednesday afternoon.As the reporters were waiting, Steve Bannon walked out of the office with Reince Priebus and said, the opposition party, all lined up!
CNN s Jim Acosta wrote:Bannon with Priebus to reporters gathered outside Spicer s office: the opposition party.
Jim Acosta (@Acosta) February 15, 2017The Dallas News was also there:Bannon emerges w/Priebus from @presssec office, spots 20 or so reporters camped out, says, The opposition party, all lined up.
Todd J. Gillman (@toddgillman) February 15, 2017So was Roll Call:Steve Bannon and @Reince walk by reporters awaiting gaggle: The opposition party all lined up, Bannon said.
John T. Bennett (@BennettJohnT) February 15, 2017And the New York Times:Reince & Bannon emerged from Spicer s office just now, looked at scrum of reporters.
Bannon: The opposition party, all lined up.
Julie Davis (@juliehdavis) February 15, 2017The Daily Mail, too:Steve Bannon walks by a large group of reporters camping out, says to us, The opposition party, all lined up.
Francesca Chambers (@fran_chambers) February 15, 2017Bannon has been calling the media the opposition party for a few weeks now and the term has disturbed media outlets and defenders of the free press because it s usually dictators who see the press as the enemy.During a phone call with the New York Times last month, Bannon whined about the media and said they should keep their mouths shut and listen and used the term opposition party to describe the media for the first time.
The media should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut and just listen for awhile, Bannon said.
I want you to quote this.
The media here is the opposition party.
They don t understand this country.
They still do not understand why Donald Trump is the president of the United States.
Clearly, Donald Trump and his team only consider conservative media outlets real news because they don t ask tough questions and they wholeheartedly support Trump and his destructive agenda.
Over the last three press conferences, Trump has only taken questions from conservative outlets.But real journalists are supposed to be tough.
They are supposed to ask hard-hitting questions.
They are not supposed to be propaganda outlets for the president.
But apparently that s what Trump and Bannon expect the media to be.
If they had their way, America would not have a free press at all.Every time Bannon and Trump insult the media they are only provoking journalists.
And provoked journalists work hard to expose the lies and scandals Trump doesn t want the American people to know about.Donald Trump and Steve Bannon are fascists.
And fascists should not have any power whatsoever in our country.
If that were not the case, our World War II generation would have just let the fascists win without a fight.And fighting is what the press and the American people must do now.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images