In a showdown with the U.S. government, Israel is demanding that its current aid package be drastically increased by an enormous margin.
With the current aid agreement of $30 billion over ten years set to expire in 2017, Israel now wants that increased to $50 billion over the next ten years.Where is all this money going to come from?
The U.S. taxpayer of course.
Instead of using this money to support the poisonous water afflicting Flint, Michigan, we give billions away to a state that perpetuates the most protracted military occupation in modern history, committing countless of human rights violations against the Palestinians.What s insane is that American politicians haven t even paid attention to Flint s water crisis, even though the lead poison in the water may have caused brain damage to thousands of American children who drank it.
In a startling display of both disdain and stupidity, Republican senator and presidential candidate Marco Rubio didn t even know what was happening in Flint days after the crisis broke.
He said: I d love to give you a better answer on it.
It s just not an issue we ve been quite frankly fully briefed or apprised of in terms of the role the governor has played and the state has played in Michigan on these sorts of issues.
Rubio continued, saying that he s unable to give: A deeply detailed answer on what the right approach should be, other than to tell you that in general I believe the federal government s role in some of these things [is] largely limited unless it involves a federal jurisdictional issue.
The comical yet sad aspect of all this is when the Republican presidential candidates ignore Flint, an American city filled with American poisoned children yet grovel to prove their loyalty to Israel, a foreign country and (I must point out again) a terrible violator of Palestinian human rights.
The question is why would they grovel on a level that makes it embarrassing to watch as an American?
The answer lies in what pro-Israel billionaires can do for you as a politician.For example, Sheldon Edelson, the militantly pro-Israel billionaire, spent tens of millions of dollars supporting Mitt Romney against President Obama in the previous presidential elections because he thought Obama was soft when it came to Israel.
Now, Republican candidates are groveling for his support and money.
Marco Rubio already has a supporter in billionaire Norman Braman.
He is Rubio s largest campaign donor with an estimated $10-25 million.
Braman is staunchly pro-Israel, funding an Israeli settlement in Occupied Palestine.
Settlements are illegal under international law and are in contradiction to U.S. foreign policy in the region.
If you listen to Rubio s rhetoric on Israel, he s religiously on board with Israel s insanity.So, when all is said and done, these signed, sealed, and delivered politicians who grovel to a foreign government must pay back the support they received during an election year.
This comes in the form of robbing tax payers of billions of dollars and ignoring an urgent issue like the Flint water crisis.
In all likelihood, Israel will get its billions and our cities and people will continue to be ignored.Watch Video Here:Featured image from Wikimedia Commons.