A bigoted conservative attorney in Alabama is suing the five Supreme Court Justices who voted to legalize same-sex marriage across the nation.The whining lawyer, named Austin Burdick, is after $6 million in damages because he says he can no longer do his job because the Constitution has been destroyed by Justices Anthony Kennedy, Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kegan.
Defendants goes beyond a manipulation, twist, strain, or unique perspective on the text and crosses over in to an abandonment of the Constitution, Burdick claims in the lawsuit.
For centuries the Constitution has been the instrument of protection for the rights of citizens against government intrusion, specifically, since the ratification of the 14th Amendment in 1868, interpreted the plain language of the Constitution and that amendment to be a guarantee of freedom from government interference in individual liberty.
Clearly, Burdick probably should not have been able to pass the bar, because his argument is ridiculous.
The ruling made by the high court in Obergefell v. Hodges is the perfect demonstration of the Supreme Court ruling precisely because the Constitution protects the rights of citizens, which includes the rights of gay people.
But Burdick claims the Justices rewrote the Constitution.
The opinion in fact rewrites the 14th Amendment to read: Every state must make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States; further, each state shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law under the guise of extending tax benefits or some other license; and any person within its jurisdiction may be deprived of the equal protection of the laws when it is fashionable to do so.'
Seriously, how did this idiot get a law license?The fact is that the 14th Amendment guarantees every American citizen equal protection and due process, something that bigots like Burdick have been denying to LGBT people for decades.
He is literally whining because he thinks the Constitution should allow him to discriminate against gay people.The Constitution was not rewritten and there is no reason why Burdick cannot continue to practice law, although there are reasons why he should not be allowed to do so.
Suing the highest ranking judges in the nation is frivolous and a waste of the judiciary s time.
The Supreme Court has the final say on what is constitutional and what is not.
It says so right in the very Constitution Burdick claims has been destroyed.Burdick has apparently felt threatened by same-sex marriage since last May when he wrote on his website that all same-sex couples are after is benefits while claiming that same-sex couples haven t been denied anything at all.No same sex couple is prevented from proclaiming that they are committed to each other.
No same sex couple is prevented from conducting a ceremony of their own choosing or design to add dignity to their relationship.
No same sex couple is prevented from exchanging rings and vows.
No same sex couple is prevented from endeavoring to live happily ever after.
No same sex couple is prevented from referring to their partner as their spouse.
Further, no same sex couple is prevented from announcing to the world that they are married.
In fact, many of the same people who have rushed to the courthouse for a license state that they have been married for years.Make no mistake, this lawsuit is just another part of Burdick s temper tantrum.
He claims same-sex couples already have the right the get married when in reality many states, including Alabama, banned same-sex couples from getting married before the Supreme Court ruling.
In fact, Alabama is still trying to deny same-sex couples that right.Any self-respecting judge should laugh Burdick out of court since this is clearly just another desperate ploy by conservatives to keep their anti-gay hate alive.
Featured image from Wikimedia