With the White House plagued with scandals, Donald Trump has repeatedly blamed the dishonest media for not giving him proper credit after he inherited a mess from former President Barack Obama.We have some bad news for Mr. Trump.
The world strongly disagrees with him.
Trump has been in office for only 168 days and yet he has already had a major impact on how the world sees the United States.MSNBC s Chris Matthews highlighted a new Pew Research Center poll which shows that Trump and many of his key policies are broadly unpopular around the globe, and ratings for the U.S. have declined steeply in many nations.Trump is wildly unpopular worldwide while Obama s popularity soars above the former reality show star s ratings.
37 nations were included in the poll, showing that a median of just 22% has confidence in Trump to do the right thing when it comes to international affairs.
In contrast to the final years of Barack Obama s presidency, a median of 64% expressed confidence in Trump s predecessor to direct America s role in the world.Watch: This highlights why Trump has exhibited so much jealousy toward his popular predecessor.
Trump will never be respected like Obama was and is.
Trump s jealously toward Obama was displayed long before he took the oath of office.
Obama would never bash the U.S. media and intelligence agencies while on foreign soil.
In fact, he never did that in the U.S., but Trump does and did.
Obama retaliated against Russia s meddling in our 2016 presidential election by ordering 35 Russian diplomats to leave the country.
Obama imposed sanctions against the foreign hostile government, while Trump s administration would like to lift them.The former reality show star is fake news and that can be seen daily in his Twitter timeline but he is good at projection.By the way, Trump is not expected to confront Russian leader Vladimir Putin today at the G20 summit meeting about his country s interference in our presidential election.Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images.