For the entirety of Donald Trump s presidential campaign, there was a massive amount of suspicion surrounding the reality television star s relationship with Russian president Vladimir Putin.
It turns out that just two days after Trump has gotten elected to be the next President of the United States, most of our instincts were correct.On Thursday, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov confirmed that there were contacts between the Trump campaign the Russian embassy staff throughout this election.
He said: Obviously, we know most of the people from his entourage.
Those people have always been in the limelight in the United States and have occupied high-ranking positions.
I cannot say that all of them but quite a few have been staying in touch with Russian representatives.
This news comes after we d already seen various instances where Trump embraced and praised Putin during his campaign, giving the impression that these two might actually be best friends.
Trump had also said he would improve America s relations with Russia, and told NATO allies they ll need to pay tribute to the United States if they want to continue to have protection against possible Russian aggression.
Trump s relationship with Russia concerned intelligence and foreign policy experts alike and it should concern all of us as well.
Trump has lied about his relationship with Russia much like he has lied about everything else in his presidential campaign.
Trump repeatedly told Americans that he had not been interacting with the Kremlin even in the face of evidence that he was praising Putin.
Once again, Ryabkov contradicted Trump s previous denial when he said: We have just begun to consider ways of building dialogue with the future Donald Trump administration and channels we will be using for those purposes.
It s also useful to point out that Trump s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort resigned from the campaign after the New York Times reported that ledgers discovered in Ukraine found that millions of dollars had been earmarked for Trump from the pro-Russian political party of former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
If that isn t shady, I don t know what is.Now that the election is over, Trump s lies are being exposed one by one.
His followers are going to be devastated when they find out who they really elected.Featured image via Adam Berry and Mark Wilson / Getty Images