It is absolutely insane how much one man can screw up, but Donald Trump has exceeded all expectations.
Not only is he well on his way to ruining an entire country (and already has made a pretty big dent in that goal), but he has singlehandedly brought down the value of his own brand thanks to his idiocy and unpopular rhetoric.The Trump name is now so hated that even his most beloved family member, his daughter Ivanka, is suffering for her father s madness and erratic behavior.
Recently, retail giant Nordstrom decided to pull Ivanka s brand from its inventory due to declining sales, and a pesky anti-Trump boycotting campaign called Grab Your Wallet.
Here s what Nordtrom s president, Pete Nordstrom, had originally said about dropping Ivanka s line: This is a sharply divisive subject.
No matter what we do, we are going to end up disappointing some of our customers.
Every single brand we offer is evaluated on their results if people don t buy it, we won t sell it.
In response, Trump threw an insane temper tantrum and tweeted this: My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom.
She is a great person always pushing me to do the right thing!
Terrible!
The company has now responded, and the way they handled it was perfect.
Indirectly addressing Trump s immature response to their decision to drop Ivanka s brand, Nordstrom issued a brilliantly diplomatic statement that remained professional without feeding Trump s insane narcissistic need for attention..@PressSec says @Nordstrom removing Ivanka s clothing line was an attack on Trump family.
This is what company says.
pic.twitter.com/5i7zhuGBgv Jeff Zeleny (@jeffzeleny) February 8, 2017It s a subtle hit at Trump, despite not ever acknowledging Trump himself.
We all know that the reason Ivanka s sales were declining over the past year is because of The Donald and his disgraceful behavior much like the decline of popularity in his own hotels.
Sadly for the man-baby POTUS, Trump only has himself to blame for this one!Read more:Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images