While Trump is busy trying to convince the world that he s the most popular president in history, others who know the truth are sitting back and laughing.
That includes the Dallas Stars, the hockey team from the very-red state of Texas.
They decided they were going to poke fun at Trump over his claim that there had to be at least 1.5 million people at his inauguration (there weren t), and they did so using their Jumbotron:Stars Jumbotron with a topical joke.
pic.twitter.com/9vsmTG1Agj Kate Morrison (@unlikelyfanatic) January 22, 2017Yes, that says their attendance was 1.5 million.
This is their way of drawing attention to the fact that, as Mashable put it: Donald Trump is really, really obsessed with numbers, especially those that reflect his popularity, sending members of his staff into the world armed with lies and alternative facts to claim the attendance at his inauguration was HYUGE.
Kate Morrison, the person who tweeted the pic of the Stars Jumbotron, apparently received several thousand retweets within a half hour.
As of the time of this posting, she had well over 18,000 retweets, and more than 37,000 likes.The Stars do tend to be irreverent when it comes to egotistical celebrities and their own opponents.
They ve trolled Justin Bieber and Toronto; and they went after the city of Winnipeg, too, where they posted a list of reasons to visit Winnipeg that included, Any suggestions?
and Go visit Vancouver instead.
So this isn t anything new, but it is hilarious given Trump s inauguration and his ego.
He s so embarrassed by the size of his inaugural crowd that his press secretary, Sean Spicer, told a a series of outright lies in an attempt to convince us that all evidence to the contrary, no matter how obvious, was fabricated.The Stars actually had a crowd closer to 18,500 there s no sports arena in the U.S. that can hold anything close to 1.5 million people.
But that doesn t matter if Trump will lie about his numbers, then there are people who will counter with something as embarrassing as possible for him.Featured image via screen captures from embedded tweet