It s hard to imagine that Donald Trump could give America any more reasons why he shouldn t be the country s next president, but Trump just can t help it.
When he s not offending minorities or destroying our relations with our countries, Trump is coming up with more shady excuses about why he can t release his tax returns, even after his own vice president, Mike Pence, said that they would both be releasing their tax documents.However, in a joint interview yesterday, Trump and his running mate seemed to be changing their story once again.
Ignoring the fact that everyone from Hillary Clinton to prominent Republicans to even his own supporters have begged the business mogul to release his tax returns, Trump had the nerve to tell ABC News David Muir that no one cares about his tax returns.
He said: I think people don t care.
I don t think anybody cares, except some members of the press.
And not surprisingly, Pence slightly walked back his comment about Trump releasing his tax returns (he must have gotten yelled at by his boss) and told Muir that he d meant only after they were audited, and that this is all a distraction.
Once again, Trump gave the ongoing audit of his taxes as an excuse, despite the fact that parts of Trump s audit have been completed and the IRS has said Trump could release them.
Not to mention, many former presidential candidates have released their tax documents while under audit it s not a big deal, unless you have something to hide.Bragging that he s given most extensive financial review of anybody in the history of politics , Trump continued: When the audit is done, I ll release them.
I don t know when that s gonna be, it could be soon, it could be not.
How comforting.
So much for the transparency and trustworthiness he s trying to build with American voters.
You can watch the interview below:Trump to @DavidMuir: People don t care about whether he should release his taxes https://t.co/mDCcpdaQeFhttps://t.co/CI9iOk8DYe This Week (@ThisWeekABC) September 6, 2016Once again, Trump is ignoring even the advice of his own supporters who understand that every time he acts out or does something shady to hide his past, he s basically handing the election over to Clinton.Featured image via Ralph Freso / Getty Images