You can t say that both parties are the same when the Republican nominee avoids paying taxes for 20 years while the Democratic nominee pays her fair share.On Saturday, the New York Times revealed that Donald Trump might not have paid any income taxes for 18 years.As it turns out, Donald Trump is a terrible businessman despite his claims otherwise.
And his bad decisions resulted in a $915 million loss in 1995 that let him off the hook from paying taxes for the next 18 years.Donald Trump has made millions of dollars every year since then, but has not had to pay a single dime to the federal government while the rest of us had to pay ours.
He thinks that means he is a genius.
It s a bombshell that gives us a clearer idea of exactly why Trump has refused to release his taxes.
Because he knows the rest of America will be pissed that a pampered billionaire who wants to control the government and our military didn t pay one cent to help pay for the services that make our country great.Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders are certainly pissed off, which is why they released statements on Sunday blasting Trump for not paying taxing.
There it is, began a statement from the Clinton campaign via Twitter.
This bombshell report reveals the colossal nature of Donald Trump s past business failures and just how long he may have avoided paying any federal income taxes whatsoever.
In one year, Donald Trump lost nearly a billion dollars.
A billion.
He stiffed small businesses, laid off workers, and walked away from hardworking communities.
And how did it work out for him?
He apparently got to avoid paying taxes for nearly two decades while tens of millions of working families paid theirs.
He calls that smart.
Now that the gig is up, why doesn t he go ahead and release his returns to show us all how smart he really is?
Trump apparently got to avoid paying taxes for nearly two decades while tens of millions of working families paid theirs.
pic.twitter.com/g62jB9fKr5 Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 2, 2016Bernie Sanders expressed his disgust during an appearance on CNN.And then Sanders went on to blast Trump on ABC for not contributing to the general welfare of our nation.
If everybody in this country was a genius like Mr. Trump is and not pay any taxes, we would not have a country, Sanders said.Donald Trump has personally benefited from the government for decades.
He even received 9/11 relief funds totaling $150,000 despite not being hurt at all by the terrorist attacks.
So just to recap, this man has received government funds which were paid for by everyone who actually pays their taxes, and he did this without having to pay a single penny in taxes for nearly 20 years.
Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton paid over $3.5 million in income taxes last year alone.
She contributed to this country like everyone else does.
Trump did not, which means Republicans literally picked a bottom-feeding taker as their leader.That should make every American angry.Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images