Red states from coast to coast have been engaged in the despicable act of discriminating against the transgender community using, go figure, religion and fear as the instruments of their hate.
Their aim is to pass bigoted laws that make simple things like using the bathroom as difficult as possible.The far-right religious zealots who control legislatures in states like Texas want you to believe there s some kind of connection between the LGBT community and pedophilia.
Add to that their cherry-picked verses from the bible that forbid anything other than what they perceive as righteous and moral and you have the perfect storm of stupid, demonizing people for being born different than they were.Unfortunately, they have a massive following of bigots, also known as Republicans, who agree with them that those darned transgender people shouldn t be allowed to pee in the restrooms marked for their identity.
Those men and women affected have responded in kind, reminding people across social media that they aren t looking to sneak a peek or carry out some kind of perverted attack on straight people or children.
This man, born a woman, makes his point by taking selfies in women s bathrooms, posting with the hashtag #WeJustNeedToPee.You asked me to keep doing selfies, so please keep re-tweeting them!
MSNBC on Wednesday!
#occupotty #wejustneedtopee pic.twitter.com/ofoVSvHJHG Michael C. Hughes (@_michaelhughes1) March 15, 2015One Christian minister in Texarkana took a stand against the discrimination by standing up for equality in a 4-minute speech that took all of the religious objections of the right-wing zealots and tossed them out the window with a vengeance.
Along with a lesson in the love Christ taught in all of his messages, the minister names off an impressive list of Christ s churches who preach it as well.
Equality is NOT something people who actually worship Christ oppose.
People who use his name to promote fear and ignorance are the worst kind of hypocrites.
This is four minutes of calling out that hypocrisy that should be mandatory to watch:https://www.facebook.com/OneWorldVoice/videos/598767663633145/?__mref=message_bubbleFeatured image from screen capture