After receiving heavy backlash, the Latino Victory PAC took down the controversial ad depicting latino children running from a Confederate flag waving white male (video below) It s disgusting..The PAC issued this statement: We knew our ad would ruffle feathers, Latino Victory Fund President Crist bal J. Alex began.
We held a mirror up to the Republican Party, and they don t like what they see.
We have decided to pull our ad at this time.
Given recent events, we will be placing other powerful ads into rotation that highlight the reasons we need to elect progressive leaders in Virginia.
Latino Victory Fund Statement: pic.twitter.com/VE8T3N3zI2 Latino Victory (@latinovictoryus) October 31, 2017When supporters of the Democrat Party start using ads that appear to be inspired by Islamic acts of terror, you know they are not the party your parents and grandparents supported, and they re certainly not the party that most Americans want to be affiliated with.
When the Latino Victory group released a disgusting video (see below) a couple of days ago, many thought that it was made to resemble terror attacks that have become all too common in European nations.
Sadly, today, that concept of using a truck as a weapon to kill innocent people became a reality in New York City, as an Islamic terrorist driver used a rented Home Depot truck as a weapon to kill 9 innocent people and to injure dozens more.Note to Democrats: Creating a terror-inspired ad with a man chasing down innocent kids in a truck through their neighborhood is not funny, and it s definitely not a clever way to get people to vote for your candidate.
According to FOX News Democratic candidate for Virginia governor Ralph Northam is not distancing himself from the controversial ad suggesting supporters of Republican candidate Ed Gillespie are seen as Confederates who attack minority children.The new opposition ad titled American Nightmare was released Monday by Democratic group Latino Victory Fund (LVF) and is scheduled to run through Election Day.
The opposition ad shows minority children seemingly being chased by a driver in a pickup truck, decked out with a Confederate flag, a Gillespie for governor bumper sticker and a Don t tread on me license plate.The driver makes his way toward the scared children who shout, Run!
Run!
Run!
when they see the truck.
The ad concludes with a scene of a Charlottesville-like rally, with a narrator asking: Is this what Donald Trump and Ed Gillespie mean by the American Dream?
The Latino Victory group tweeted the video that was so violent, that Twitter has now suspended their account.
Here is what their tweet said:Ed Gillespie and Donald Trump promise the American dream, but can only deliver an American nightmare.
No more.
Vote @RalphNortham.
#GameOnVA pic.twitter.com/mwpWXM47HZ Latino Victory (@latinovictoryus) October 30, 2017Northam s campaign told Fox News Tuesday that the ad was not shocking based on Gillespie s campaign.
Independent groups are denouncing Ed Gillespie because he has run the most divisive, fear-mongering campaign in modern history, Northam campaign spokeswoman Ofirah Yheskel said in a statement to Fox News.
It is not shocking that communities of color are scared of what his Trump-like policy positions mean for them.
But Gillespie said the ad was an attack on his supporters, whom he calls good decent hardworking Virginians who love their neighbors.
- FOX NewsMaking an ad that depicts a white man with a confederate flag flying from his pick-up truck, sporting an Ed Gillespie (Republican candidate for Governor) bumper sticker on the back, chasing minority kids around their neighborhood is not only sick, it is hateful and divisive.
It s ironic that the end of the ad, the words REJECT HATE are flashed across the screen with a message asking, Is this what Donald Trump and Ed Gillespie mean by The American dream ?