While we re on the subject of lying to the FBI, when will Hillary Clinton be prosecuted for multiple crimes she committed while acting as our Secretary of State?
Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn admitted Friday to making false statements to the FBI, entering the first guilty plea in Special Counsel Robert Mueller s Russia probe and agreeing to cooperate with investigators.A source close to Flynn said financial and emotional pressure helped lead to the decision to plead guilty, rather than endure a drawn-out court battle.As part of the deal, Flynn already is supplying information about the actions of top Trump transition officials.Though the individuals are not named, court documents show Flynn claiming a very senior member of the Trump transition team directed him to contact foreign governments including Russia over a United Nations vote discussions tied to one of Flynn s false statements.The documents also say Flynn called an unnamed senior transition official in December to ask what to communicate to the Russian ambassador about sanctions.
That official and Flynn discussed how they didn t want Russia to escalate the situation, something Flynn immediately told the ambassador in a phone call.According to the plea deal, Flynn has agreed to cooperate fully, truthfully, completely and forthrightly with the probe, with sentencing delayed until those efforts have been completed.
Flynn, a retired Army lieutenant general, becomes the first Trump ex-White House official charged in the special counsel probe.His tenure at the White House was brief he was fired for similar conduct, pertaining to his undisclosed discussions with the Russians and Flynn had been under investigation even before the special counsel probe over lobbying work for Turkey and other issues.
The fact that he faced just one count prompted immediate speculation Friday that Flynn was cooperating and offering information to Mueller s team.As for the past discussions between Flynn and transition officials, it s unclear which senior officials the plea deal referred to.
But a former senior intelligence officer with knowledge of Trump transition activities told Fox News that then-President-Elect Trump directed Flynn during that period to contact the Russians while also directing him and his team to contact 12 other countries.
The transition team felt that the Obama White House had completely abandoned any coherent foreign policy and had to fill the vacuum, the former official told Fox News.In a statement, White House lawyer Ty Cobb said nothing about the plea implicates anyone other than Flynn.
NBC News tweeted Cobb s statement:Today, Michael Flynn, a former National Security Advisor at the White House for 25 days during the Trump Administration, and a former Obama administration official, entered a guilty plea to a single count of making a false statement to the FBI.
The false statements involved mirror the false statements to White House officials which resulted in his resignation in February of this year.
Nothing about the guilty plea or the charge implicates anyone other than Mr. Flynn.
The conclusion of this phase of the Special Counsel s work demonstrates again that the Special Counsel is moving with all deliberate speed and clears the way for a prompt and reasonable conclusion.
BREAKING: President Trump's personal attorney releases statement after Flynn plea:"Nothing about the guilty plea or the charge implicates anyone other than Mr.
Flynn."
pic.twitter.com/TEygBKCx0W NBC News (@NBCNews) December 1, 2017Conservative citizen journalist Jack Prosobiec asked a very good question about the tactics that were used to gain access to Trump administration officials by the Obama regime:Michael Flynn charges come after he was illegally wiretapped and unmasked by the Obama Administration and Susan RiceWhen are those charges coming?
Jack Posobiec (@JackPosobiec) December 1, 2017Watch Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton and ACLJ President Jay Sekulow lay out the case against Barack Obama officials and the felonies they committed when they leaked and improperly disseminate classified information and unmask members of the Trump transition team.
Jay Sekulow explains to Sean Hannity, that, The concern is the intelligence apparatus in the United States has rules, that they have to follow, like every other agency, and it appears that in the waning days, or maybe the last year of the former administration, they viewed those laws as advisory opinions and not law.
When the unmasking allegations first surfaced, Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) had plenty to say about the unmasking of Michael Flynn.On March 19, 2017, George Stephanopolis asked Senator Rand Paul about his thoughts on the unmasking of Michael Flynn.
Senator Paul suggested that the person responsible for unmasking General Flynn should be in jail.
Paul went on to say that you cannot allow this unmasking to take place, or we will have presidents being blackmailed or national security advisers being blackmailed.
Here s an excerpt from their conversation published by Politico:STEPHANOPOULOS: Finally, sir, you re also a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
WE see the president standing by that claim about President Obama.
It s caused a rift now with British intelligence over the weekend.
How big a problem is this for the president s credibility?
How does he fix it?PAUL: I think that we know one thing for sure, that the Obama administration did spy on Flynn.
Now, whether it was direct or indirect, somebody was reading and taking a transcript of his phone calls and then they released it.It is very, very important that whoever released that go to jail, because you cannot have members of the intelligence community listening to the most private and highly classified information and then releasing that to The New York Times.There can only be a certain handful of people who did that.
I would bring them all in.
They would have to take lie detector tests.
And I would say, including the political people, because some political people knew about this as well.But we need to get to the bottom of who is releasing these highly classified conversations.
And if the president was surveilled, he probably wasn t the target.
I don t know that he was or wasn t. But if he was, they probably targeted someone in a foreign government, but then they listened to the conversation with Americans.STEPHANOPOULOS; You don t believe President Obama ordered an illegal wiretap of President Trump?PAUL: Well, what happens is it s different than that.
We target foreigners all the time, but they talk to Americans.
They talk to the president.
They talk to the national security advisers.
And they re supposed to be masked.But there was something alarming the other day.
General Hayden admitted that people all the way down to some of the lowest analysts can unmask who the American is.
So, someone unmasked General Flynn and they re a low-level analyst, we need to be looking at their computer and find out if they unmasked that conversation and if they spoke with The New York Times you have got to put those people in jail, because you cannot allow this to happen, or we will have presidents being blackmailed or national security advisers being blackmailed.This is a huge, huge problem, bigger than anything else that s being discussed is the fact that private conversations from the intelligence community s perspective are being leaked to the press.
That s not like a leak that says, oh, the president watches TV in his bathrobe, this is important to national security, you can t let it happen.Rand Paul was asked again about the unmasking of Michael Flynn on MSNBC s Morning Joe show.
Paul told the leftist hosts backdoor searches are illegal and that they could be politicized.
Paul said that Susan Rice should be placed under subpoena and she should be asked: Did you talk to the President about this and did President Obama know about this?
Paul went on to say that the Susan Rice unmasking was a witch hunt started by the Obama administration because of sour grapes on the way out the door.
Watch, starting at the 6:30 mark: