Conservative media company The Blaze has suspended political commentator Tomi Lahren, multiple sources with knowledge of the situation confirmed to The Daily Caller.Lahren s show is suspended for effect for at least one week starting Monday, according to TheDC s sources.
A source with direct knowledge of the situation previously told TheDC that Lahren s contract with the company goes until September, but that she may leave the company before then.Lahren s inflammatory style placed her at odds with other employees at The Blaze, as previously reported by TheDC.
Tensions were high between Lahren and her coworkers at The Blaze even before she called pro-life conservatives hypocrites in an appearance on ABC s The View on Friday.In her appearance on The View, Lahren said she is pro-choice and called pro-lifer conservatives hypocrites, saying, I can t sit here and be a hypocrite and say I m for limited government but I think the government should decide what women do with their bodies.
Watch here:https://youtu.be/gOT3EiKCL-wLahren s denouncement of pro-lifers sparked a backlash from her coworkers, as well as other prominent conservatives.In her typical adversarial style, Lahren fired back at critics on Twitter, saying, I speak my truth.
If you don t like it, tough.
I will always be honest and stand in my truth.
I have my beliefs and you have yours.
Doesn't make you right.
Never said y'all have to agree with me.
Get over it.
https://t.co/wResXuUNet Tomi Lahren (@TomiLahren) March 19, 2017Watch Lahren s passionate monologue as she expresses her disgust in anyone who supports abortion (only 3 months ago):Soon after Lahren s tweet, a reporter at The Blaze, Kate Scanlon, tweeted, There is no my truth.
There is only the truth.
Another reporter at The Blaze, Kaitlyn Schallhorn, tweeted soon after: Even Hillary Clinton didn t call pro-life conservatives hypocrites.
Latest from @MattWalshBlog: Pro-lifers aren't the ones being hypocrites, @TomiLahren https://t.co/4v2eLUDs8q Jon Street (@JonStreet) March 20, 2017On Monday, founder of The Blaze Glenn Beck in an unusual move played a clip of Lahren seemingly flip-flopping on the abortion issue on his radio show.
He also argued against Lahren s stance that pro-life conservatives are hypocrites.From Glenn Beck s radio show: Tomi Lahren, host of Tomi on TheBlaze TV, revealed Friday as a guest on The View that she is a pro-choice conservative, which seems to contradict her stance from less than a year ago.
While some may find her newly-stated beliefs at odds with conservatism, the real controversy surrounded her comment that pro-life conservatives, who believe in limited government, are hypocritical for believing the government should intervene in a women s issue like abortion.
The response was visceral from both the left and right.
I would disagree that you re a hypocrite if you want limited government and yet you want the government to protect life of the unborn.
It s very, very clear.
But it takes intellectual honesty, and it takes a willingness to actually think these things through and to do more than just read Twitter or Facebook to get your news and your political opinions.
You actually have to study things these things out in your mind.
Especially at a time period like today, Beck said.
Bomb throwing is bomb throwing in today s world is dangerous.
Freedom of speech, it s not free.
Speech isn t free.
It comes with a very high price tag.
First, being intellectually honest and intellectually curious.
Speech is not free.
It comes with another cost and usually to the other people at the other end of your argument.
The pen is mightier than the sword, and it can destroy people if your aim is clicks, views, and ratings, he continued.
Daily Caller