On Monday, Milo Yiannopoulos an editor for conservative website Breitbart offended students at the University of Massachusetts when he told them that feminism was a cancer on society during a panel about political correctness organized by the school s College Republicans group.Let s just say those misogynistic conservative views didn t go over too well.
While some students were cheering for the panel, it was clear that several students did not like what the conservative speakers had to say.
Once Yiannopoulos announced, Feminism is cancer.
Thank you very much, everything began to go downhill.
It didn t take long before one brave, outspoken female student began to protest, shouting F*ck you!
F*ck you!
to Yiannopoulos and called him a rape apologist.
As Christina Hoff Sommers, another speaker on the panel, tried to ignore the inflammatory situation happening in the audience by moving onto the subject of how evil third-wave feminism was, the protester continued to only get louder.
The student shouted over everyone, This is free speech!
Keep your hate speech off this campus!
She added, Stop talking to us like children!
Sommers fired back at the student, Then stop acting like a child!
The entire assembly quickly fell apart, causing chaos to errupt as several more students began objecting to the panel s misogynistic views.You can watch the insane footage from the event below, courtesy of college news website Campus Reform:The students disrupted the panel so much that Yiannopoulos actually threatened to donate $50 to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump s campaign every time they were interrupted.Sadly, Yiannopoulos wasn t the only a**hole speaker disrespecting the students at this gathering.
While addressing the packed audience of students, conservative comedian Steven Crowder called the protesters silly liberal fruitcakes when they tried to counter the speakers hateful rhetoric.
Crowder was also kind enough to remind the students that Yiannopoulos Dangerous Faggot Tour was a response to protesters like themselves.
He said, This monster right here that you re so afraid of the face you see in your nightmares, was created by social justice warrior a**holes like you.
Just to prove what a misogynist Yiannopoulos really is, this is what he tweeted after the event:NEW CLUB BANGER https://t.co/ZGcq1Pcp6e Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) April 27, 2016The anti-woman attitude of the entire panel is extremely disgusting.
You can watch the entire assembly below, with Yiannopoulos cancer remarks starting at about 3 minutes in:Featured image is a screenshot