Georgia Congressman and civil rights hero John Lewis said on Friday that Donald Trump is not a legitimate president.
Naturally, Trump attacked him on Twitter for stating what millions of Americans already think.
But film legend Michael Moore agrees with Lewis wholeheartedly.On Saturday, Moore took to Facebook to give six reasons that Lewis is right and Trump is illegitimate.
He began by pointing out that Trump didn t even come close to winning the popular vote.1.
Nothing, including an arcane, racist section of the constitution, can change the fact that 3 million more Americans voted for Hillary than for Trump.
It s either a democracy or it isn t. If he had won by 3 million, I would sadly admit that Trump is the President the American people wanted.
But that s not what happened.Next, Moore said what many people (including my mother who worked in mental health care for several decades) have been saying for months: Trump is f*cking nuts.
Not like, ha ha, he s crazy.
But as in this is no laughing matter, the man is seriously suffering from a mental illness.
2.
He is not well and needs help.
He has a number of serious mental disorders that make him unfit to hold office and they are on display every day in one cringe-worthy tweet after another.
He is a full-blown malignant narcissist.
He displays sociopathic tendencies.
He will say one thing and 30 seconds later say the opposite.
He is disconnected from the truth.
And he has a stunning lack of human empathy.
These behaviors make him a truly dangerous occupant of the Oval Office.The third item on Moore s list is obvious to anyone who has been paying attention even a little bit, Russia.
It is undeniable at this point that the Russians interfered in the U.S. presidential election and clearly helped land Trump s orange derriere in the White House.3.
The Russians interfered with the election in order to get him elected.
Even Trump now admits as much.
That alone makes the election tainted and should be voided.
We spend trillions on ridiculous weapons and ineffective police state-style homeland security measures to defend us against those who would destroy our way of life but we are to remain silent when a foreign government is caught trying to get THEIR candidate elected as OUR president?
AND they succeed!
This is a joke of monstrous proportions and the fact that conservatives, Republicans and patriotic good ol boys are actively defending this foreign aggression into our country confirms to me what I ve feared all along: that they really hate our form of democracy, our Bill of Rights, our belief that All men (sic) are created equal, our one person-one vote system, that whoever scores the most points wins and that people of all religions are welcome here.
They don t believe that, and I d respect them so much more if they would just simply admit it.Moore then slammed FBI Director James Comey for his decision to announce that the investigation into Hillary Clinton s emails was being reopened just days before the presidential election.
This all turned out to be bullsh*t by the way but still ended up being the straw that broke the camel s back and swung support away from Clinton in the final stretch.4.
The FBI clearly chose sides, and FBI Director Comey s interference in the 10 days before the election most-definitely helped tipped the balance to the FBI s preferred candidate, Donald J. Trump.
That our own federal police would so brazenly attempt to throw the election to the person with the least votes is mind-boggling, frightening and must be stopped.
Attorney General Lynch must immediately, today, appoint a Special Prosecutor to investigate what to me appears to be a criminal offense.
If this is true, I want to see FBI Director Comey in handcuffs and behind bars.
Short of murder and a few other heinous acts, is there a worse crime in our democracy than the highest ranking cop in the land attempting to throw the election?Moore continued by noting that Trump has appointed billionaires to serve in his cabinet who will be all too happy to sell the U.S. to the highest bidder.
In particular, he took issue with the nomination of Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson to serve as secretary of state.5.
Trump has nominated in Rex Tillerson the most powerful corporate CEO in the world as our Secretary of State.
Why would the quarter-billionaire head of the world s richest corporation want a government job?
So that he, a personal friend of Putin s, can get the US sanctions lifted off Russia so that his company, ExxonMobil, can get back to their exclusive oil deal with Russia which will eventually net ExxonMobil three TRILLION dollars.
This is nothing less than a bold, audacious robbery in broad daylight and it says a lot about you and me that they think they can get away with it.Finally, Moore said that Trump s legal woes alone should have ruled him out as a presidential possibility.
From rape to fraud, Trump has faced a long list of felonies over the years.
Not to mention whatever it is in his taxes that he his so desperate to keep secret and his myriad conflicts of interest.
How he has made it this far is mind boggling.6.
Trump has potentially committed a number of felonies and a felon simply can t sit in the Oval Office (I can t believe I even have to state that).
From his admitted sexual assaults to whatever he s hiding in the tax returns, to possibly evading taxes, to his committing fraud with Trump U, to his long list of conflicts of interest the chance of us having to suffer through his impeachment trial in the Senate is just too much to bear.Moore concluded by once again stating that Lewis was spot on and urging the public to contact their congressmen to ask them to follow Lewis lead and refuse to attend the inauguration of an illegitimate president.Featured image via Jemal Countess/Getty Images