On Thursday, Donald Trump eased sanctions against Russia s spy agencies following a phone call last week with brutal Russian dictator and Trumpfriend Vladimir Putin.
Details of the call have been scarce, limited to a vague, one-paragraph statement posted on the White House website:President Donald J. Trump received a congratulatory call today from Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The call lasted approximately one hour and ranged in topics from mutual cooperation in defeating ISIS to efforts in working together to achieve more peace throughout the world including Syria.
The positive call was a significant start to improving the relationship between the United States and Russia that is in need of repair.
Both President Trump and President Putin are hopeful that after today s call the two sides can move quickly to tackle terrorism and other important issues of mutual concern.Many have been wondering why information about the specifics of the call has been so scarce.
According to Ian Berman, vice president of the conservative-leaning American Foreign Policy Council, the reason is simple Trump turned off the recording.
On Wednesday, Bergman said at a forum on Russian-Turkish relations at the Bipartisan Policy Center that there was no readout of the Trump-Putin call because [the] White House turned off recording.
.
@ilanberman: "there was no readout of the Trump-Putin call bc WH turned off recording" Kremlin readout is very positive @BPC_Bipartisan pic.twitter.com/oi4v1R5dN0 ilhan tanir (@WashingtonPoint) February 1, 2017The Kremlin s clearly sanitized readout sounds very nice, if one ignored the fact that multiple intelligence agencies have confirmed that Putin personally spearheaded a massive hacking and propaganda campaign on Trump s behalf or that he began receiving his quid pro quo when The Donald eased sanctions against his spy agencies.
According to a statement on the Kremlin s website, both sides expressed their readiness to make active joint efforts to stabilise and develop Russia-US cooperation on a constructive, equitable and mutually beneficial basis and The sides stressed the importance of rebuilding mutually beneficial trade and economic ties between the two counties business communities, which could give an additional impetus to progressive and sustainable development of bilateral relations.
In other words, Putin and Trump talked about how our own fascist dictator intends to repay Russia s leader for his help in securing the Oval Office.While it is yet unconfirmed that the recording does not exist, it seems this is the case given the vague readout and the clear attempt to keep information from Americans.
If he did indeed shut off recording, why would he do that?
There is only one answer plenty was said that would be uncomfortable if the American people learned the details.We as Americans need to demand a full release of every call Trump has had with world leaders.
We need to demand answers because we will not get them otherwise.Featured image via Getty Images/Win McNamee