Elie Mystal, an editor and contributor to the law blog Above The Law, posted a December 7 article urging all black Americans who end up on juries to engage in jury nullification by automatically voting to acquit all blacks accused of crimes, especially that of murder, against white victims and to do so no matter how much evidence is brought to bear against the suspect.Mystal justified this lawlessness by claiming that African-Americans live in a world where the police can murder us and get away with it.
There is no justice for black people.
And yet violently revolting against the system will get us nowhere, he added.This, Mystal says, is reason enough to work against the legal system in all areas.
Maybe it s time minorities got in the game?
Mystal added.Mystal goes on to call whites who have had a crime committed against them or who have been murdered a purported victim and says blacks have no responsibility to help any white person achieve justice.
Breitbart NewsBy the way, Elie Mystal of Above The Law is the same person who while told Mike Huckabee that while climate change is going to be incredibly expensive, You know what s going to be more expensive?
retro-fitting everyone on the East Coast with gills so we can breath under-water.
Here are some tweets regarding Mystal s controversial article:Black juries treating white people the way white juries treat black people = rage hate against the white race?
Equality is a bitch I guess.
Elie Mystal (@ElieNYC) December 9, 2016This Twitter user pointed out to Mystal that his remarks are incredibly dangerous :Mystal s not concerned about the law, he simply wants justice by any means necessary.
How is this person still allowed to practice law?
What's dangerous is thinking cops can murder people and get away with it, while POC wait patiently for the system to get over its issues.
https://t.co/8WbVyuEH6x Elie Mystal (@ElieNYC) December 8, 2016Here is the article Mystal posted to Twitter from his Above the Law (appropriately named) legal blog: Jury Nullification is a way black people can protest the justice system, and make white people notice.
(by @ElieNYC)https://t.co/DJv4wn9BIK Above the Law (@atlblog) December 7, 2016