Wow!
What a couple of hypocrites and haters!
We ve included contact info for the two male liberal columnists below so you can let them know how tacky and disgraceful they are for mocking Sarah Sanders.UPDATE: HORSEY ISSUED AN APOLOGY AFTER BACKLASH BUT HIS CARTOON IS STILL IN THE ARTICLE!
I want to apologize to Times readers and to Sarah Huckabee Sanders for a description that was insensitive and failed to meet the standards of our newspaper.
It also failed to meet the expectations I have for myself.
It surely won t be my last mistake, but this particular error will be scrupulously avoided in my future commentaries.
I ve removed the offending description.
David HorseySHE MUST BE GETTING UNDER THEIR SKIN:Two male, liberal columnists this week launched personal attacks against White House press secretary Sarah Sanders.DAVID HORSEY OF LA TIMES:Los Angeles Times columnist David Horsey mocked Sanders appearance (he later deleted this part), saying she looks more like a slightly chunky soccer mom who organizes snacks for the kids games.
Rather than the fake eyelashes and formal dresses she puts on for news briefings, Sanders seems as if she d be more comfortable in sweats and running shoes, Horsey wrote on Wednesday.
Yet, even if Trump privately wishes he had a supermodel for a press secretary, he is lucky to have Sanders.
He s also a cartoonist.
This horrible cartoon of Sanders is with the article: BIG MOTHER ??
?Please contact Horsey on twitter to let him know what a total jerk he is to mock a woman like this: David Horsey TwitterNY TIMES BASHES SANDERS TOO:Another columnist, the New York Times Frank Bruni, similarly went out of his way on Friday to bash Sanders for her personal characteristics, in this case her way of speaking.Bruni wrote that Sanders is serving a function other than communication, which turns out not to be her forte.
To listen to her pronounce priorities is akin to hearing the air seep out of a flat tire, and she leaves half of the consonants on the curb, Bruni added parenthetically, mocking Sanders for her Southern accent.Bruni calls Sanders a phony: She s a bogus message to Middle America that Trump s White House is really a homespun, family-values kind of places.
Please contact Bruni on twitter: Frank Bruni TwitterNice try, but Sanders is as real as they come.
THAT S what bothers these two so-called journalists who just did a hit piece on a woman for her looks and her Southern accent NOT for the job she s doing as press secretary.
Is this all they ve got?
Nice try boys, we re even bigger fans now of this imperfect (who is perfect?)
but incredible woman who stepped in and is hitting a home run for the Trump team Go Sarah!
You got this!VIA: DAILY CALLER