Michael Flynn s sudden resignation in the wake of a growing scandal that he was in contact with Russia over the sanctions we slapped on them probably surprised absolutely no one except perhaps those who think Donald Trump is perfect.
Flynn recently admitted that he may have discussed those sanctions with Russia, and then, with the news that the Justice Department had already warned the Trump administration about him, everything just blew up.Fox News (of all outlets) published his resignation letter in its entirety, and it s not the letter of someone who knows he screwed up.
It s the letter of someone who s still hoping that the White House will give him some favorable treatment.
It s the letter of someone who s sucking up majorly in the wake of his fuck-up.It s the letter of someone who won t admit he was wrong in any way, shape or form.
After claiming that his talks with Russia and other countries were simply to make the transition of power as smoothly as possible, he said: Unfortunately, because of the fast pace of events, I inadvertently briefed the Vice President Elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador.
I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology.
Leave out the fast pace of events, and I inadvertently, and you ve got an admission of wrongdoing.
Otherwise, he s basically saying, Yeah, I lied, but it wasn t my fault I lied.
Then he says it s been his honor to serve the American people in such a distinguished way, after talking about his integrity in performing his duties throughout a 33 year-long military career.
His career is distinguished, yes, but it s been forever tarnished by his behavior, even if he isn t willing to acknowledge that in his resignation.The end of the letter, though, is nothing but one big, long, sloppy kiss on Trump s ass: I am also extremely honored to have served President Trump, who in just three weeks, has reoriented American foreign policy in fundamental ways to restore America s leadership position in the world.As I step away once again from serving my nation in this current capacity, I wish to thank President Trump for his personal loyalty, the friendship of those who I worked with throughout the hard fought campaign, the challenging period of transition, and during the early days of his presidency.I know with the strong leadership of President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence and the superb team they are assembling, this team will go down in history as one of the greatest presidencies in U.S. history, and I firmly believe the American people will be well served as they all work together to help Make America Great Again.
Yeah, that really sounds like he s hoping they ll give him some kind of favorable treatment down the road instead of cutting him loose and disavowing him, or something.
It is, in its way, a good resignation letter, but it just reeks of ass-kissing and this wasn t my fault.
Flynn is, we hope, just the first domino to fall in a corrupt administration that s intent on selling us out to one of our greatest enemies.
Goodbye, and good riddance, sir.
Read his full letter here.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images