The Oscars have been experiencing some well-deserved backlash since January 14, when the show announced an all-white group of nominees for the 2016 Academy Awards.
Chris Rock, who is hosting the show this year, called the show the white BET Awards while other celebrities like Jada Pinkett Smith and director Spike Lee said they would not be attending the show.
Since the uproar, many other celebrities have spoken out against racism in Hollywood and have supported the call to boycott the Oscars.But someone else has given their unwanted opinion Republican presidential front runner and infamous racist Donald Trump.
Never one to disappoint when it comes to being offensive, the business mogul went on Fox & Friends to share what he thought about the Academy Awards lack of minority nominees.
Actress and Fox contributor Stacey Dash set the stage when she criticized Black Entertainment Television (BET) for not giving out awards to white people.
She said: I think it s ludicrous, because we have to make up our minds.
Either we want to have segregation or integration.
If we don t want segregation, then we need to get rid of channels like BET and the BET Awards and the Image Awards, where you re only awarded if you re black.
If it were the other way around, we would be up in arms.
It s a double standard.
Trump followed Dash with his own awful take on BET and the Oscars controversy: I saw somebody on your show today say, Well, what do we do with BET?
The whites don t get any nominations, and I thought it was an amazing interview, actually.
I ve never even thought of it from that standpoint.
Later in his rant, Trump added: I mean, I ve watched over the years where African Americans have in fact received Academy Awards and have in fact been represented.
And this is not one of those years, but over the years I ve seen numerous black actors and African American actors receive awards and I think that s great.
This doesn t happen to be one of those years.
It s a difficult situation.
Trump also slammed Al Sharpton s push to tune out the A-list event, saying Give me a break.
You can watch the interview below:Featured image via Gage Skidmore