By now, we re all fairly certain that we ve seen enough evidence to in the very least convict the major players of the Dubya administration of lying to the American people about Saddam Hussein s Iraq.
There were no weapons of mass destruction; of that we are sure.We re sure, the people who went looking are sure, even the CIA is sure.
The only people who aren t sure are the top ranking members of the Bush administration; George Bush, Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld.
While they seem to admit that they were wrong about WMDs in Iraq, they refuse to admit they made a mistake invading Iraq over the issue because it was the best information they had at the time.A newly declassified document is shedding some light on those claims.
In a memo written by Donald Rumsfeld himself to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the former Secretary of Defense wrote, Please take a look at this material as to what we don t know about WMD.
It is big.
The memo wasn t about what we knew about the alleged Iraqi weapons programs, but rather what we didn t know.
As it turns out, we didn t know diddly squat.
The report stated:Basically, just before the Bush administration made their case for war, they knew very little about what was actually going on.
That translated to the doom and gloom reporting to the American people by their leaders that a maniac had most definitely acquired nuclear, chemical and/or biological weapons that could be used against the US or its interests.While an article in Politico points out that Rumsfeld was under no legal obligation to disclose the classified memo or its contents, it is only fair to note that he and his bosses opted instead to send Colin Powell to the UN for the infamous speech full of lies that gained the support of the United Kingdom and a coalition of nations.The memo proves that we were going to war no matter what.
They weren t fed bad information.
They didn t push America off that cliff and into another ground war because they thought they knew what Iraq was hiding.
They jumped off because they knew exactly what they didn t know, and even that pointed to a country far less dangerous than the one they sold the American people.Featured image via Wikipedia