Donald Trump lobbed a veiled threat at the former FBI director on Friday, hinting that some of their conversations before his firing may have been recorded.
James Comey better hope that there are no tapes of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!
the president tweeted.James Comey better hope that there are no "tapes" of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 12, 2017It s unclear whether Trump was warning that the White House is recording his calls, or if he believes the FBI may have been recording Comey s.Trump said Thursday during an interview with NBC News that the two men have spoken at least three times since Inauguration Day.Watch President Trump tell NBC s Lester Holt he was going to fire Comey anyway:And on those occasions, he insisted, Comey assured him that he was not personally the subject of any federal investigations.
He said it once at dinner and then he said it twice during phone calls, Trump said.He described a matter-of-fact exchange over dinner in which he asked an unusual question and got an unconventional response.
I said, If it s possible would you let me know, am I under investigation?
Trump recalled.
He said, You are not under investigation .
It is rare for a federal law enforcement official to tell anyone, including the President of the United States, whether they are being investigated.Even if Comey doesn t speak to reporters about the circumstances behind his dismissal on Tuesday, he may have a high-profile venue to tell his side of the story.The Senate Intelligence Committee has asked him to testify next week.The latest twist from Trump amid reports that he demanded loyalty from James Comey during the private dinner at the White House back in January.The claims from associates of the now fired FBI director.
Comey had told associates that he was summoned to the White House for a one-on-one dinner with Trump seven days after the inauguration, the New York Times reports.It was during the dinner that Trump reportedly asked Comey twice to pledge loyalty to him as the new Commander in Chief.Sources claim Comey declined to do so but said he told the President he would always be honest with him.Trump is said to have pressed Comey on whether that would be honest loyalty , to which the FBI director said: You will have that.
Sources close to Comey said he now believes this dinner conversation may have sealed his fate.This version of events is vastly different to the dinner conversation Trump himself described in an interview with NBC s Lester Holt on Thursday.The version is denied by the White House.
But the president also used Twitter on Friday morning to say that it is not possible for my surrogates to stand at podium with perfect accuracy .While it is not clear if they are talking about the same dinner, the pair are believed to have only dined together privately once.Trump indicated that he had dinner with Comey at the former FBI director s request and said Comey was angling to keep his job.
I had a dinner with him.
He wanted to have dinner because he wanted to stay on.
We had a very nice dinner at the White House, Trump said.
He asked for the dinner?
Holt followed up.
A dinner was arranged, I think he asked for the dinner, the president hedged.
And he wanted to stay on as the FBI head.
And I said I ll consider and we ll see what happens.
But we had a very nice dinner.
And at that time he told me you are not under investigation , Trump said.Trump said he had asked Comey once over dinner and twice by phone if the FBI were investigating him as part of its probe into alleged collusion between members of his campaign and the Russian government prior to the election.The President showed no concern that the request might be viewed as interference in the active FBI probe.Comey has not spoken publicly to confirm or challenge Trump s account.During that same interview, Trump declared he had planned to fire Comey all along, regardless of whether top Justice Department officials recommended the stunning step.The White House had initially cited a Justice Department memo criticizing Comey s handling of last year s investigation into Hillary Clinton s emails as the impetus for Trump s decision.For entire story-Daily Mail