Republicans have apparently reached a new level of desperation to clear Donald Trump of all wrongdoing in his Russia scandal.Donald Trump chose Michael Flynn to work on his campaign.
Donald Trump chose Michael Flynn to be his National Security Adviser.
Donald Trump ignored the warnings about Michael Flynn.
But somehow, Republicans are blaming President Obama anyway.As we all know, Flynn had dealings with Russia that he failed to disclose, including conversations with Russian officials about the sanctions placed by President Obama in retaliation against Russia for interfering in our national election.Flynn s ties to Russia run deep and one would think that Trump would have vetted Flynn.
After all, Trump had plenty of time to do so during the campaign and after taking office.But he appointed Flynn anyway and even voiced his support of his National Security Adviser until the very end when Trump was forced to boot him out the White House.President Harry Truman once said that The buck stops here in reference to the fact that anything that happens during a president s tenure is the ultimate responsibility of the president.But Trump has done everything he can in an effort to escape any and all responsibility for what happens under his watch or lack thereof.And even Republicans have been making excuses to absolve him of any wrongdoing.That includes openly blaming President Obama for Trump s Flynn scandal.During an appearance on MSNBC on Tuesday, House Oversight Committee Chair Jason Cheffetz literally claimed that President Obama is at fault for this scandal.
It was the Obama White House that this would have fallen under, Chaffetz told Greta Van Susteran.
I don t think what happened here is really the fault of Donald Trump.
Here s the video via VidMe.According to Cheffetz, the Obama administration is at fault because they vetted Flynn before he was appointed by Obama to head the Defense Intelligence Agency.However, prior to getting caught dealing with Russia earlier this year, Flynn had kept his ties to Russia under the radar.
Those ties became much clearer after he got busted.
Besides, Trump is the one responsible for hiring Flynn during the campaign and he is the one responsible for appointing him as National Security Adviser.
Trump and his administration had lots of time to vet Flynn.So this falls directly and completely on Donald Trump.
He had months to dig into Flynn s history, and clearly, he liked what he found.
After all, they share a love of Putin and Russia in common.Cheffetz should just go ahead and resign immediately rather than serve out the remainder of his term.
One would think that Cheffetz would feel free to do the right thing since he has chosen not to run for re-election.
But it s apparent that he intends to lie and cover for Trump until the end.
He should be ashamed.Featured Image: Screenshot