Up until recently, we ve all been witnessing Donald Trump speak freely with nothing really prepared except for the usual crumpled sheet of paper he d pull out of his coat pocket to read the latest poll numbers to tell us how wonderful he is.
However, with clinching the Republican nomination getting closer and closer, he s trying (and failing) to be more refined.
Which includes using a teleprompter to read speeches that are prepared for him.During his foreign policy speech on Wednesday, it was painfully awkward to watch.
You could hear him reading the speech, which did not come across naturally whatsoever.
Watching his head swiftly move from side to side to give the illusion that he was speaking freely was more clumsy than a first date in the dark.Then came the moment when he was trying to be serious and speak about some foreign policy blunders, and he spoke about when some of our embassies overseas were compromised.
However, his reading off the teleprompter proved this is probably the first time he has ever heard of the places of which he was speaking.For example, he read: Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
But SAID: Our embassies in Kenya and Tan-ZANE-ia.
Small blunder?
Sure, but one that was surely noticed by all and just another example of Trump s clear ineptitude.Donald Trump has a pretty interesting way of pronouncing Tanzania.
#tanzaynia https://t.co/2ygcnhCVKF DOPEITSTOM (@DOPEITSTOM) April 27, 2016Taking notice of this blunder was none other than, well, pretty much everyone- but also White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest.
When questioned about the moment, Earnest quipped: Apparently phonetics are not included on the teleprompter.
Watch here:"Apparently, the phonetics are not included on the teleprompter."
@PressSec on Donald Trump foreign policy address.https://t.co/ORuNELmrne CSPAN (@cspan) April 27, 2016All in all, it shows how ill-prepared Trump is at not only addressing the nation, but also reading.
Add this to the list of reasons not to vote for him, which is a very, very long list.If you want to torture yourself, you can watch the speech in full HERE.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images