Hillary Clinton s camp took aim at Donald Trump and his recent efforts to lure black voters into backing him, slamming his minority outreach efforts as shameful, insulting and cowardly.
Marlon Marshall, Hillary for America s Director of State campaigns and Political Engagement, released a statement on Thursday in response to the latest update on Trump s upcoming visit to an African-American church in Detroit.
Not only will Trump not be speaking to the congregation, but the one-on-one interview he will be having with the pastor after the service will be carefully scripted.
Donald Trump s latest gimmick to act as if he cares about the black community is downright shameful, insulting and cowardly, Marshall wrote.
After 14 months of neglecting us, Donald Trump is once again dodging substantive conversations and ducking questions about the issues that impact our community.
Not surprisingly, Trump s ignorance on issues like the economy, criminal justice reform, the meaning of quality health care or systemic racism, has forced him to resort to scripted conversations and staged engagements with our communities.
According to the leaked script, the questions that will be asked by Bishop Wayne T. Jackson will be written in advance and the GOP nominee s answers will be carefully prepared ahead of time as well.
Marshall slammed Trump for this bogus attempt at scripted outreach to the black community.
The problem is, our community can see through this: outreach to African Americans cannot be scripted; leaders ought to be prepared to address the hard truths about race and justice in our country, Marshall wrote.
And Trump s discomfort on addressing these issues only reinforces that he s unfit to be our president.
Trump s so-called minority outreach has not been going over as well as he hoped.
What was his master plan to woo black voters and make them forget that he is endorsed by the KKK?
Tell them that their lives suck so bad already that they don t have anything to lose by voting for him.
Gee, I simply can t imagine why bedbugs and the Bubonic plague are polling better than Trump among blacks and Hispanics right now.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images