Kellyanne Conway tried to baffle George Stephanopoulos with bullshit on Monday morning and got her ass handed to her with facts.Donald Trump s Muslim ban has caused worldwide chaos as airports across the country are detaining and blocking people traveling from seven countries, including green card holders who are permanent American citizens, children, and the elderly.
For some reason, Trump and his team think these people are terrorism threats.But the ban not only violates constitutional rights, it is absolutely wrong about the seven countries listed because none of them are responsible for any deaths on American soil.And during an interview with George Stephanopoulos, Conway took a beating after she claimed that protesters against Trump s ban don t know the facts.
I see all these protesters, Conway whined.
I think if you actually surveyed them, they would probably get the facts wrong.
They re being misinformed.
Stephanopoulos then unleashed devastating facts, pointing out that Saudia Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates were left off the list even though those countries were home to the 9/11 hijackers.
Trump mentioned 9/11 as a reason for the executive order.
None of the deadly terror attacks in this country since 9/11 have been carried out by anyone from those seven countries.
Eighteen of the 19 9/11 attackers came from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates there is no ban from that country.
Those countries also happen to be countries where President Trump has significant business interests.
So why weren t those countries included?
Conway responded by blaming President Obama, claiming that Obama banned Iraqi refugees for six months.But that s a lie because it appears there was only a delay in processing visa applications of Iraqi refugees in response to an actual threat.
But there was no ban like Conway claims.
Stephanopoulos even pointed out the inaccurate claim and informed Conway that there was a lot of media coverage at the time.Conway then whined about not getting bipartisan cooperation, which is quite hypocritical to expect since Republicans refused to work with President Obama for eight years.
She also demanded that Democrats and Republicans collaborate with Trump on his tyrannical agenda, which she called an extraordinary accomplishment.
I mean, Donald Trump has been on the job for, what, eight, nine, ten days.
Barack Obama was here for eight years.
The extraordinary accomplishments in just the first week truly are breathtaking.
No reductive curating reporting, in my view, is helpful to the American public to understand.
We re being very collaborative and very open.
We would just like the same in return.
Here s the video via Twitter.WATCH: @GStephanopoulos interviews @KellyannePolls about Pres.
Trump s immigration ban, countries not included and comments from Republicans pic.twitter.com/uzCFvtUNEV Good Morning America (@GMA) January 30, 2017Is it wrong to wonder when a house is going to fall on this witch?Featured image via screenshot