When it comes to racial tension in America, nothing is new, it s just now being shown for what it is.
With the emergence of cell phone cameras capturing police brutality, people going after the president for the color of his skin, and a Republican presidential candidate who openly says racist things, it s been getting very ugly.However, Fox News being Fox News, and Jeanine Pirro being great at the art of inflammatory rhetoric, she decided to say that we don t really live in a racist society, but President Obama somehow wants us to.Pirro decided to say: The problem is that this president is looking in a rear view mirror.
It doesn t matter if he s at a prayer breakfast and says, You Christians had it coming, and it goes back to Christ and Jim Crow and slavery.
I mean, why doesn t he look forward?
Then after listening to the stupid being passed around the room that somehow President Obama is to blame for increased racial tension in America, Pirro adds: We ve passed the Civil War, we ve passed the Civil Rights era, we ve got the laws in place, he is identifying things that he thinks are a problem and he doesn t get his facts straight.
America was colorblind when we voted for a black president twice.
The problem is primarily fixed.
He keeps making it worse.
They have fewer jobs now.
He is just stoking the flames.
Here s the thing, President Obama is very much living in the present and just because he s shining a spotlight on existing problems, doesn t mean he created them, nor were they gone.
If you don t call something out, and only ignore it, it doesn t go away, but rather stews and gets deeper ingrained into the core of many people, no matter if you re racist, or have been the victim of racism.Also, there s no such thing as being colorblind, nor should we as a society seek to ignore what makes us different and unique.
We need to embrace our differences, not paint over them and pretend they don t exist.Pirro is clearly vying for being the dumbest person on the network with this sort of thinking, because she s clearly missing the ability to think rationally.Watch the stupidity unfold before your eyes here: Featured image via video screen capture (MMFA)