So this man who so desperately wanted children comprised of his genes, that he hired a surrogate mother to carry them.
Now that he only wants two of them, which one of the three children would he like to see her have killed?
Who will choose which two babies will be lucky enough to make it out of the womb alive and into his loving home?
Who will he decide which baby will end up in a dumpster?
Melissa Cook was hired to be a surrogate mother for an unidentified Georgia man earlier this year.She was to be paid $33,000 for her efforts.
But what both parties didn t expect was triplets.Cook and the man used in-vitro fertilization, combining his sperm with the egg of an unnamed 20-year-old woman.
Cook was implanted with three embryos, each of them defying the odds.
The result was triplets.Now, the Georgia man is demanding Cook to abort one of the babies or face financial ruin.Cook, who is a California native, spoke to the The New York Post: They are human beings.
I bonded with these kids.
This is just not right Robert Warmsley, the unnamed man s lawyer, warned in a letter that his client: understands, albeit does not agree, with your decision not to reduce.
As you know, his remedies where you refuse to abide by the terms of the agreement, are immense [and] include, but are not limited to, loss of all benefits under the agreement, damages in relation to future care of the children [and] medical costs associated with any extraordinary care the children may need.
In other words, she ll be stripped of her pay, and could face a lawsuit, if she doesn t comply with his wishes to abort one of the babies.Melissa Cook responded, penning a heartfelt letter in which she questioned the decision: The doctor put in three healthy embryos, she wrote.
The chances were high they were all going to take.
If you knew you only wanted two babies, then why put in three embryos?
Cook is currently 17 weeks pregnant.California law dictates that, aside from life-threatening exceptions, fetuses cannot be aborted once they become viable, which is typically around 20 weeks.
Via: IJReview