Seldom in life are you set up so perfectly with a joke that you wonder if the moment could actually be real, but on Friday evening Donald Trump Jr. gave the internet a gift.
In an effort to try and look cool and appear to be part of the outsider campaign of his father, Trump Jr. posted a pic of himself, his brother Eric and sister Ivanka:This election is not about Republican vs Democrat it's about insider vs outsider.
It's time for a change in DC!
# pic.twitter.com/0wYBx8DOsp Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 2, 2016Now, if your first reaction wasn t that it looks like a compilation of 1990s movie villains, maybe it was one more like one of these brilliant remixes.
Twitter users definitely just had way too much fun, and we re all eternally grateful:pic.twitter.com/67xufVir1f Clara Jeffery (@ClaraJeffery) September 3, 2016pic.twitter.com/EneCCVx5Mn jon gabriel (@exjon) September 3, 2016fixed it pic.twitter.com/NejaqyI3CF Ashley Feinberg (@ashleyfeinberg) September 3, 2016Fixed it pic.twitter.com/JrZ6IBwVye Roberto Baldwin (@strngwys) September 3, 2016Obligatory #theylive.
pic.twitter.com/y0ksKqhSHL Bryant Frazer (@deep_focus) September 3, 2016Fixed it for you, @DonaldJTrumpJr.
Stay gold, ponyboy.
pic.twitter.com/PdDeTwrEi1 Lee Zachariah (@leezachariah) September 3, 2016My personal favorite:The new Children of the Corn movie looks terrifying.
pic.twitter.com/12CkPi6tB4 pourmecoffee (@pourmecoffee) September 3, 2016Honestly, these perfect mockeries of the trio could go on and on and on for days.
It s really unclear what they were trying to attempt to do by posting this image in the first place.
Maybe they really are just like their dad and think they are too cool for school and don t ever realize how ridiculous they actually are.
Who s to really know for sure?However, God bless the internet and all it s been bringing to this current crazy election.
It s bringing a sense of sanity to what, most definitely, feels like an insane world.
Well done.Featured image via Twitter