Out of all the insane people who are part of Trump s posse, former campaign manager Roger Stone has to win the loony prize.
Stone regularly immerses himself with full-on white supremacists.
During the presidential campaign, Stone was so insane that he (was forced to) quit because of all the controversy surrounding him.
Apparently, he didn t want to upstage the candidate s own controversies.
Now he says he has been poisoned because he knows too much about Russia, only it s not Russia, he says, that s doing the poisoning.On Tuesday, Stone appeared on conspiracy nut Alex Jones InfoWars claiming that he had been poisoned with polonium, which is Putin and the Russian s poison of choice.
However, Stone is making the claim that it was Congress (or something) that poisoned him.
I became extremely ill.
This manifested itself in over 14 days of high fever, delirium, night sweats, I had lesions on my chest and my face, Stone explained to Jones.
The general consensus is I was poisoned.
I was poisoned with polonium or a substance that has the characteristics of polonium and this made me exceedingly ill. Stone s theory is that someone poisoned him because he has proof that Russia was not behind the hacks of the Democratic National Committee and John Podesta, This is about stopping the Trump agenda, he said.
I would blow the whistle on this whole bogus Russian narrative that they just won t let go of.
Source: MediaiteHere s the insane video:He also tweeted about it:Yes, I believe I was poisoned to stop me from exposing the Russian Hacking LIE b4 the Congressional Investigation @StoneColdTruth Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) January 17, 2017Yes, Doctors say I was poisoned WHO would do such a thing ?
https://t.co/6o4hHgAJ2e Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) January 18, 2017While this story sounds like a bad Tom Clancy novel, it makes zero sense since people knew of Russia s involvement long before the election and if there was some vast anti-Trump, anti-Russia conspiracy theory, it would have come to fruition before Trump won the Electoral College, not after.
The far more believable explanation is that Stone, who nobody really gives a crap about, wasn t poisoned and that he s trying to hawk his new book.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images