Hillary Clinton tells a reporter from liberal rag Mother Jones that she s above any investigation into Uranium One This is really comedy gold!
Delusional!Hillary s delusional reasoning: If they send a signal that we re going to be like some dictatorship, like some authoritarian regime, where political opponents are going to be unfairly, fraudulently investigated, that rips at the fabric of the contract we have, that we can trust our justice system It will be incredibly demoralizing to people who have served at the Justice Department, under both Republicans and Democrats, because they know better.
But it will also send a terrible signal to our country and the world that somehow we are giving up on the kind of values that we used to live by and we used to promote worldwide.
Here s the latest on just how corrupt Hillary really is and why she s pushing back she s guilty!This is why she s saying this is an abuse of power Guilty!!
!The Uranium One corruption runs so deep with the Obama administration that it is a threat to Obama too.
This corruption must be investigated!
This is the real Russian scandal!The videos above provide so much information and proof that this is a crime If this doesn t warrant a special counsel, what the heck does ?Here are the seven facts about the Uranium One deal you need to know: Peter Schweizer Broke the Uranium One Scandal Government Accountability Institute (GAI) President and Breitbart News Senior Editor-at-Large Peter Schweizer broke the Uranium One scandal in his book Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich.
In the book, he reported that Clinton s State Department, along with other federal agencies, approved the transfer of 20 percent of all U.S. uranium to Russia and that nine foreign investors in the deal gave $145 million to Hillary and Bill Clinton s personal charity, the Clinton Foundation.
The New York Times Confirmed the Scandal in 2015 The New York Times confirmed Schweizer s Uranium One revelations in a 4,000-word front-page story by a Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative reporter.
It detailed how the Russian energy giant Rosatom had taken over the Canadian firm with three separate purchases between 2009 and 2013, largely coinciding with Hillary Clinton s time as secretary of state.
The FBI Uncovered Evidence that Russian Money Was Funneled to the Clinton Foundation The Hill reported last week that ahead of the deal, the FBI had uncovered substantial evidence that Russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in bribery, kickbacks, extortion and money laundering to expand Russia s nuclear footprint in the U.S. as early as 2009.
The agency also found that Russian nuclear officials had routed millions of dollars to the U.S. to benefit the Clinton Foundation.
The Justice Department would sit on the evidence for four years before looking to prosecute, by which time the deal had been approved.
Congress Is Now Investigating The Senate Judiciary Committee has launched a probe into the scandal and has sent requests for more information to 10 federal agencies involved in the approval of the partial sale of Uranium One, asking what they knew about the FBI investigation and when.
Bill Clinton Was Paid $500,000 for a Speech in Moscow Bill Clinton bagged a $500,000 speech in Moscow paid for by a Kremlin-backed bank shortly after Russia announced its intention to take a majority stake in the company.
According to the Times, Clinton traveled to Moscow in June 2010, the same month Rosatom struck its deal for its majority stake in Uranium One.
The Clinton Foundation Took Big Bucks from Uranium Investors According to theTimes, The Clinton Foundation received $2.35 million in donations from Ian Telfer, a mining investor who was also the chairman of Uranium One when Rosatom acquired it.
It also received $31.3 million and a pledge for $100 million more from Frank Giustra, the Canadian mining financier whose company merged with Uranium One.
Senate Republicans Want an FBI Gag Order Lifted Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) has called for the Justice Department to lift the gag order on the FBI s whistleblower, indicating that he may have more explosive revelations related to the case and on what the Clintons and the Obama administration knew about the case and when they knew it.
Read more: Breitbart NewsDEVELOPMENTS TODAY MOVE THE BALL FORWARD: Devin Nunes just announced a probe into the Uranium One Deal that smells to high heaven of corruption and money laundering by the Clintons and the Obama administration:BREAKING: Devin Nunes announces probe into the #UraniumOneDeal.
pic.twitter.com/c7p9mVdTYa Based Monitored (@BasedMonitored) October 24, 2017FBN S LOU DOBBS SPOKE WITH THE AUTHOR OF CLINTON CASH : Biggest scandal in the history of American politics While speaking with Peter Schweizer, the author of Clinton Cash: The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich, and Breitbart News senior editor-at-large on Friday, Fox Business Network host Lou Dobbs argued that the Uranium One deal could end up being the biggest scandal in the history of American politics.Dobbs said, There is no clear statement as to why we would give up, for any reason, any price, 20% of our uranium in this country.
And that is a question that is left open still unanswered.
and secondly, have you ever heard of anyone putting $145 million, at one moment, into the hands of the Clinton foundation?
And the answer is, of course not.
These questions, most basic and fundamental, were armed by the very committee made up of the very agencies, departments, and individuals responsible for national security.
this, this is the biggest Obama scandal.
I think it may well turn out to be the biggest scandal in American political history.