If there s one couple that Republicans love to attack, it s the Clintons.
For decades, they have been under constant dubious scrutiny, more so than almost any other politician.
Why?
Because they have an incredible history of getting stuff done.
Stuff their critics would rather not see be getting passed, and work they would rather not see being accomplished.
If Republicans can successfully make a scandal of the Clintons to try to discredit all their accomplishments, that will help Republicans beat Hillary in 2016.
It s political theater at its best and worst.Appearing on the campaign trail for this first time this election cycle in Nashua, New Hampshire, was former President Bill Clinton.
If anyone can explain the exemplary work Hillary has done throughout her long career, it s Bill.
And while many like to say Hillary changes her support with the wind of any popular idea, or copies other candidates, they clearly don t know the work she s done, and how she often set the precedent for not only knowing how to get the job done, but getting it done.
This pattern of accomplishment began long before she even remotely thought about running for any sort of elected office.The former president explained that his wife was a minority as a woman among law students at Yale, and while she really could have done anything with her career, she decided to help children and the poor through her work with the Children s Defense Fund.
He said: There she was at Yale Law School.
She could have written her ticket to go anywhere she wanted all she was really interested in was providing legal services to poor people She hadn t been elected to anything, but everything she touched became better.
As TIME so perfectly summed up Clinton s remarks: He remembered that Hillary had helped found an early education program for immigrant children in Arkansas and that she has investigated the placement of African-American children in adult prisons in South Carolina.In another anecdote, Bill said that Hillary as First Lady worked on a bill to reform foster care policy in the late 1990s with Tom DeLay, then a leading Republican in the House of Representatives.
This is all in addition to her later political work, like in helping get the Iran Deal passed, or her part in capturing and killing Osama bin Laden, or her countless hours mending relationships around the globe, all while keeping her cool under the most brutal fallacious condemnation.Clinton stated: I do not believe in my lifetime, anybody has run for this job at a moment of greater importance who was better qualified by knowledge, experience and temperament to do what needs to be done now.
Her experience speaks volumes.
Her calm under pressure is unmatched, and her ability to get people to come together to get the tough jobs done can be seen in the work she s accomplished.It s clear Bill is in this to win it for Hillary, and is focusing on what his wife has done instead of attacking opposition.It will be interesting to see what the rest of this fast approaching primary season will offer.
Video: YouTube Featured image: Flickr