Thank God Hillary never worked in a rape clinic or with women who were victims of sexual abuse One of Bill Clinton s rape victims, Juanita Broaddrick tweeted this in January:I was 35 years old when Bill Clinton, Ark.
Attorney General raped me and Hillary tried to silence me.
I am now 73 .it never goes away.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) January 6, 2016After Hillary came out feigning shock over Trump s WORDS about women, Juanita Broaddrick struck back here:Hillary calls Trump's remarks "horrific" while she lives with and protects a "Rapist".
Her actions are horrific.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) October 8, 2016And here:How many times must it be said?
Actions speak louder than words.
DT said bad things!HRC threatened me after BC raped me.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) October 8, 2016It is commonly believed by Clinton victims that Hillary was behind the siccing of private investigators on the many women who accused her husband of rape, sexual assault or infidelity in the 1990s.Hillary Clinton revealed her hidden hand when she menacingly issued a clear warning of intimidation to her husband s accusers (and those who would pursue their charges) on the nationally broadcast Today Show in early 1998 in the days after the Monica Lewinsky scandal broke.The Today Show interview with Matt Lauer on January 27, 1998 is famous for Hillary s claim that a vast right-wing conspiracy was behind the allegations of an affair between her husband President Clinton and White House intern Monica Lewinsky.
(Transcript source.)
This is the great story here for anybody willing to find it and write about it and explain it is this vast right-wing conspiracy that has been conspiring against my husband since the day he announced for president.
A few journalists have kind of caught on to it and explained it.
But it has not yet been fully revealed to the American public.
And actually, you know, in a bizarre sort of way, this may do it.
Later in the interview, Hillary bluntly issued her threat: I think we re going to find some other things.
And I think that when all of this is put into context, and we really look at the people involved here, look at their motivations and look at their backgrounds, look at their past behavior, some folks are going to have a lot to answer for.
Here s the video Video from Today Show video hosted by C-SPAN.https://youtu.be/BEEIimRCp4EVia: Gateway Pundit