Rush Limbaugh weighed in on what he thinks happened when Bill clinton met up with AG Loretta Lynch for 30 minutes at the Phoenix airport.
The big question to ask in all this is what does Lynch mean by primarily?
Doesn t she incriminate herself by opening up the possibility that there could have been conversation about the case before her that involves Hillary Clinton?
According to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, her seemingly impromptu meeting with former President Bill Clinton earlier this week was primarily social, but conservative talker Rush Limbaugh isn t convinced.
I did see President Clinton at the Phoenix airport as he was leaving, and he spoke to myself and my husband on the plane, Lynch told Phoenix news outlet KNXV-TV Monday.
Our conversation was a great deal about his grandchildren.
It was primarily social, about our travels and he mentioned golf he played in Phoenix.
Radio talk show host and conservative commentator Rush Limbaugh speaks at An Evenining With Rush Limbaugh event May 3, 2007 in Novi, Michigan.
The event was sponsored by WJR radio station as part of their 85th birthday celebration festivities.But Limbaugh feels a few too many things lined up for the meeting, which has been criticized given the fact Lynch is overseeing an investigation into Hillary Clinton s private email server, to be a spontaneous social call.
So Clinton just happens to be told that Loretta Lynch is arriving soon when he just happens to be arriving to depart at Sky Harbor International Airport?
Limbaugh asked during his radio show Thursday.
[W]e are supposed to believe here that Bill Clinton, a 70-year-old man with a history of heart trouble, played golf in Phoenix where it was 108, 110 degrees?
Limbaugh doesn t seem to buy Lynch s recanting of the meeting.
Instead, he feels the discussion which the radio personality believes was intended to be clandestine involved Bill Clinton blackmailing Lynch, telling her to drop the email issue all together.
During his program, Limbaugh posed another possibility, in which Bill Clinton praised the attorney general and reminded her he was one of the people that told Barack Obama to put you in this job, adding that he s been one of her champions for I can t tell you how long.