Donald Trump is an incompetent commander-in-chief and he just proved it with the first military raid he ordered.Since December 2014, the United States had refrained from putting boots on the ground in Yemen to fight terrorists because the region has become so dangerous and unstable.President Obama effectively used drone strikes to take down terrorist leaders instead.But in an apparent move to somehow prove that he s a tough guy, Trump ordered a military raid in Yemen that should get him arrested for murder.That s because an eight-year-old American girl was killed after being shot through the neck by American troops during the raid, which Trump and his team bragged about because 14 Al Qaeda militants were also killed.Nawar al-Awlaki surely was not expecting to die at the age of eight.
But after two hours of suffering on Sunday, she passed away, thus being denied the chance to grow up by a tyrant thousands of miles away in the White House.Nawar was the daughter of Anwar al-Awlaki, a United States citizen who joined the terrorist organization and was subsequently killed by a drone strike in 2011.
Her 16-year-old brother was killed by a drone strike two weeks later.But we re talking about an eight-year-old girl here.
Not a terrorist.
And she was an American citizen.
She was hit with a bullet in her neck and suffered for two hours, Nawar s grandfather Nasser al-Awlaki told the press.
Why kill children?
This is the new (U.S.) administration it s very sad, a big crime.
Indeed, it is a crime and one that Trump and his entire administration should have to answer for.Nawar wasn t the only child to be murdered, however.
Other children were killed in the raid and so were women.
Medics on the scene said there were at least nine dead women and children because American military forces obeyed an order from a madman.And what s truly scary is that Trump is so willing to kill American citizens and call it collateral damage.
No one can say that this girl was a terrorist, yet she was killed anyway as if she were.One wonders whether Trump will start targeting Americans he considers his enemies now that white supremacist Steve Bannon sits on the National Security Council, the same council that makes the decisions about whether an American should be targeted for assassination.
After all, Trump has no qualms about killing innocent children so clearly Trump would do anything and say it s all in the name of national security.White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer made that clear on Monday when he said that it would be misguided and wrong to NOT handcuff a five-year-old child who was being detained and separated from his mother by airport security because he was traveling from Iran, on of the seven nations including in Trump s Muslim ban.So not only is Trump killing children, he s having them arrested, too, just because they happen to have brown skin and have connections to nations in the Middle East.
Seriously.This is the kind of bullshit that terrorists will use to recruit more people to their cause, which will make our country less safe down the road as terrorists make plans to get revenge.By killing this little girl along with other children and women, Trump is no better than the terrorists who indiscriminately kill Americans on our own soil.
And he s going to continue displaying his incompetence when it comes to military matters for the next four years if nothing is done to remove him from power to show the world that we do not in any way condone what he is doing.
That being said, it s time for the military to stand up to Trump and be as brave as acting Attorney General Sally Yates was before Trump fired her.The United States military should not be ordered to conduct a raid if it means innocent women and children will be killed.
The price is just way too high.Featured image via Twitter