In the wake of a gunman terrorizing a pizza place in response to a fake story about Hillary Clinton, Joe Scarborough strongly condemned General Michael Flynn for helping these conspiracies grow.Right-wing conspiracy nut Alex Jones first pushed the claim that Hillary Clinton ran a child sex ring out of the Comet pizza place in Washington DC.
It s a totally false story with zero evidence to support it.
But conservatives spread it anyway.And Michael Flynn, who is about to become Donald Trump s national security adviser spread the false story.U decide NYPD Blows Whistle on New Hillary Emails: Money Laundering, Sex Crimes w Children, etc MUST READ!
https://t.co/O0bVJT3QDr General Flynn (@GenFlynn) November 3, 2016Flynn s own son also pushed the lie and still refuses to admit that the story is false.Until #Pizzagate proven to be false, it ll remain a story.
The left seems to forget #PodestaEmails and the many coincidences tied to it.
https://t.co/8HA9y30Yfp Michael G Flynn??
(@mflynnJR) December 5, 2016On Monday, a visibly angry Joe Scarborough demanded that Flynn apologize for all the harmful fake news and tweets he has shared or posted to attack Muslims, Jews, Hispanics and Trump s political opponents.
He has left a trail of crap behind him with retweets, retweeting something about Jews, retweeting something about Muslims, retweeting fake news.
He needs to clean this up.
He needs to step up and clean this up.
He needs to apologize to Americans.
He is in one of the most important positions in the White House.
On Jan. 20, he needs to apologize for what he has done, unrelated to this fake news story but with the other fake news stories, the retweets about Jews, the retweets about Muslims.
Mark Halperin agreed with Scarborough and said Flynn needs to explain all of this in a way that s detailed, because again, he s not subject to Senate confirmation.
Here s the video via Twitter..@JoeNBC on Gen. Flynn s controversial tweets: He needs to clean this up He needs to apologize to Americans https://t.co/bkNY13ocnx Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) December 5, 2016Once again, false stories pushed by conservatives drove a right-winger to grab his gun and start shooting up a place.
This is the danger Trump and right-wing media pose to this country.
They will make up any lie to attack political opponents and then push followers who are already on the edge to commit acts of violence.
This is right-wing terrorism and it s going to happen more over the next four years.Featured Image: Screenshot