It s a bromance for the ages.
One that may go down in history.
Glenn Beck, while on the campaign trail in Iowa with Ted Cruz, formally endorsed the Republican candidate.
However, that s not even the half of it.For most of the day, Beck was sending out these cryptic love notes regarding his feelings towards Cruz.
Even going so far as to imply that Cruz is the next George Washington.
Althoug, George Washington was actually born in the United States, we can t say as much for Cruz.The tweets really need to be put into letter form, so that s exactly what I ll do for you here: This election is about more than someone who understands your anger; it is about those who can stand shoulder to shoulder with you.
I used to worry folks would vote party over principle.
This year is worse it s paparazzi over principle.
I need more than someone to vice my anger I need someone to have my back.
The George Washington we need will not be found in the garish light of gold.
Do we really want another 8 years of a president who views his role as a Benevolent Dictator?
The president does not create jobs.
He helps create the conditions in which WE THE PEOPLE create jobs and change lives.I have prayed for the next George Washington I believe I have found him.
The presidency is not just a man, it is principles.
That s why I stand with Ted Cruz.
Our children deserve hope of a better tomorrow than our yesterdays; they deserve Ted Cruz.
I am officially endorsing Ted Cruz to become the first Hispanic president!Connect with truth.
Connect with freedom.
Connect with Cruz.No, one man makes America great.
But each of us as individuals, living our own lives, believing in our own strengths.
That makes the USA great.
Well, actually Beck, you ve made it pretty darn clear that you believe Ted Cruz is going to be your one and only in making the nation what you want it to be.
While your passion for Cruz can be admired, your facts regarding your beloved candidate aren t quite accurate.
Ted Cruz is no George Washington.
Not even close.
However, keep believing in your heart of hearts that Cruz is the man of your campaign dreams.
If it s something you can hold close, do it.
It may be all you have this election season.Here s the full series of tweets with a few jabs thrown at Trump and Hillary Clinton as well:This election is about more than someone who understands your anger; it is about those who can stand shoulder to shoulder with you.
Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016It's amazing how much time this presidential candidate is spending on someone who is so "irrelevant" cc @realDonaldTrump Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016.
@realDonaldTrump may not to need God s forgiveness, how about asking America s forgiveness 4 supporting trillions in Wall Street bailouts.
Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016I used to worry folks would vote party over principle.
This year is worse it's paparazzi over principle.
#GlennInIowa Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016I need more than someone to vice my anger I need someone to have my back Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016The George Washington we need will not be found in the garish light of gold Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016Do we really want another 8 years of a president who views his role as a Benevolent Dictator?
Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016The president does not create jobs.
He helps create the conditions in which WE THE PEOPLE create jobs and change lives.
Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016I have prayed for the next George Washington I believe I have found him Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016.
@HillaryClinton should be in prison Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016The presidency is not just a man, it is principles.
That's why I stand with @tedcruz @SenTedCruz Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016Our children deserve hope of a better tomorrow than our yesterdays; they deserve @tedcruz Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016I am officially endorsing Ted Cruz to become the first Hispanic president!
@tedcruz #iacaucus Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016Connect with truth.
Connect with freedom.
Connect with Cruz.
@SenTedCruz @tedcruz Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016No, one man makes America gr8t.
But each of us as individuals, living our own lives, believing in our own strengths.
That makes the USA gr8t Glenn Beck (@glennbeck) January 23, 2016Featured image: Twitter