Not content with being a mere robot who repeats the same scripted line over and over during a debate, Marco Rubio demonstrated that he is a cold heartless robot on Sunday.Everyone knows that the Florida Senator is an extremist when it comes to a woman s right to choose an abortion.Last July, Rubio vowed to outlaw abortion at home and around the world, making clear that women are only voting against their own freedom if they vote for Rubio to become president.Rubio s position on abortion is one of the most strict among the GOP field, especially since he opposes exceptions for rape victims, whom he would gleefully force to carry their rapist s baby for nine grueling months with the risk that her rapist will claim parental rights and terrorize her for the rest of her life.And Rubio did little to soften that position on Sunday, telling George Stephanopoulos that he would look a rape victim in the eye and tell her to carry her rapist s baby to term.
Abortion to me is not a political issue, Rubio said.
It s a human rights issue.
He then said that he would sign an anti-abortion bill with exceptions, but only because it would be a step toward banning abortion altogether.
I do require an exception for life of the mother because I m pro-life.
Number two, as I ve said, if they pass a law in Congress that has exceptions, I ll sign it.
Because I want to save lives.
The ABC host then asked Rubio point-blank what he would say to a woman who gets pregnant through rape, to which Rubio replied that he would tell her how sorry he is but she should have the baby anyway.
It s a terrible situation.
I mean, a crisis pregnancy, especially as a result of something as horrifying as that, I m not telling you it s easy.
I m not here saying it s an easy choice.
It s a horrifying thing that you ve just described.
I get it.
I really do.
And that s why this issue is so difficult.
But I believe a human being, an unborn child has a right to live, irrespective of the circumstances of which they were conceived.
Rubio conceded that most Americans disagree with him on this issue, but nevertheless, he said he would still sign a bill banning abortion despite the opposition from the people.Here s the video via YouTube:Indeed, the Washington Post reports that support for the right to choose has never been higher, and even 40 percent of Republicans support choice.Rubio is clearly echoing former Republican candidate Rick Santorum, who called a rape pregnancy a gift from God four years ago.
Indiana Senate candidate Richard Mourdock felt the same way.
And both men lost their bid for public office because of their extreme stance.As you also recall, the Republican war on women cost the GOP dearly in 2012 as women flocked to the voting booth to give their overwhelming support to President Obama.
And seeing as how the GOP has only become more extreme against women s rights, it looks like 2016 will at the very least be a repeat, but could end up being a landslide for Democrats if an anti-abortion fanatic like Rubio becomes the GOP nominee.Women should always have a choice when it comes to making decisions about their bodies.
But Republicans want to force women to have babies against their will even if that pregnancy was forced upon them by a rapist.
That makes Republicans no better than the Make Rape Legal activists who are only becoming more emboldened as the conservative anti-women fervor gets more extreme.By forcing women to give birth to their rapist s baby, Republicans would reward rapists with progeny and give them even more power over their victims, while subjecting women to months and years of trauma.
We do not need these kinds of men running our government.
They only contribute to the rape culture that is plaguing this country, and that means most of the Republican field of candidates are unfit to be president.Featured Image: Woman Survival