(Reuters) - The world is this generation s oyster.
China s Class of 2012 is mostly ambitious and pragmatic.
What do they want out of life?
For some, it's a husband.
For others, an apartment in a city.
Still others are happy with a stable job, or travel and new experiences.
Wang Siyue, a product specialist at an internet education company: To be honest, how can I imagine what will happen in the next five years?
You can make some plans but the world is unpredictable ...
There s a very good saying: the luck of man is in balance.
It s balanced.
If you have good luck in the beginning, you ll have less luck later on.
I believe in fate.
Hu Ruixin, a computer technician, talked about his dreams when he was in university: I had a 15-year-plan for myself.
For the first five years, I d open an advertising studio.
In the next five years, I d let the studio develop into a company.
With five more years, I d grow the company.
But when I finally graduated from university and went into the world, I found this was hard to realize.
There are too many restrictions and it s difficult, so I gave up.
The most important thing in life is responsibility.
I ve got a child now and since becoming a parent feel that responsibility is really important.
Zhang Weixuan, an assistant secretary at a software company, who recently managed to get Beijing residency - a coveted hukou : My China Dream is simple.
I hope to establish myself in a big city.
Last year I got my Beijing hukou , I successfully got it, and now I want to get married here and start my own family.
In my work field I hope to do well and in two years time, or even now, buy a small apartment.
Then I can establish myself.
I think that d be pretty good.
Qi Jing, a township leader for the Communist Party Youth League, who grew up in Wuhan: I think now my dilemma is when you reach a certain age you have less and less opportunities.
Especially as a woman, your choices at work, your choices between work and family, you have to face them.
Then you ll give up a lot of things.
Maybe there s something you wanted to do when you were young and thought why not give it a shot?
But what I feel now is I should slowly give them up, and focus on stability.