Brock Turner, the 20-year old swimmer who was convicted of raping an unconscious woman behind a dumpster outside of a party, will never, ever get a chance to swim in the Olympics, or compete in U.S. national competitions.
His membership with USA Swimming expired two years ago, but he could have become eligible for one again.
Instead, USA Swimming hasn t just banned him, they have banned him for life.
ABC News has their statement on the issue: USA Swimming condemns the crime and actions committed by Brock Turner, and all acts of sexual misconduct.
Brock Turner is not a member of USA Swimming and, should he apply, he would not be eligible for membership, USA Swimming spokesman Scott Leightman said in a statement obtained by ABC News today.
Had he been a member, he would have been subject to the USA Swimming Code of Conduct.
USA Swimming strictly prohibits and has zero tolerance for sexual misconduct, with firm Code of Conduct policies in place, and severe penalties, including a permanent ban of membership, for those who violate the Code of Conduct.'
Poor little Brock Turner.
Our hearts bleed pink carbonated peanut butter for him and his ruined career.
His life is so difficult now, all because the drinking and partying culture on college campuses took advantage of him he decided to rape an unconscious woman.
First he got thrown out of Stanford, where he was a gifted swimmer, then he got prison time, and now this.
He ll have to live a mundane life devoid of the accolades he would have gotten as an Olympic medalist.Turner has promised to work to educate students about the dangers of drinking and partying on campus because he s convinced himself that s what made him rape.
His father expressed for support for that when he wrote an extraordinarily disgusting defense of his son, calling him a victim of that culture, and said it s not right that his son should suffer any more just for a mere 20 minutes of action.
It s painfully obvious that neither of those two actually heard the victim as she read her own statement to the court.
She detailed out the horrors of finding out she d been raped, the damage it s caused, and the ways it s changed her life for the worse.
She will be dealing with this for the rest of her life.
Turner s defenders are trying to shun responsibility for what he did, instead of owning up to it and trying to help her in any way they can.Even a friend of his is defending him by saying that not everyone who rapes is a rapist, which is a sorry attempt to change the definition of rapist.
Furthermore, Turner only received six months in jail, and could be out in as little as three months, because Judge Aaron Persky thought his age and his lack of a criminal record up to that point warranted a mere slap on the wrist.This is the cold-blooded fuckery of rape culture at its finest.
USA Swimming is taking a stand against rape culture, though, as did Stanford when they expelled him.
His life is ruined, as well it should be, because the only way to avoid this is to respect women and not rape them.
Lots of men get drunk every day and manage not to rape women, so why couldn t Turner?
USA Swimming did the absolute right thing.Featured image via screen capture