Donald Trump s Republican running mate Mike Pence, made an appearance on CNN s State of the Union Saturday morning where he was grilled by the show s host, Jake Tapper.
The grilling was brought on by a line of questioning regarding Trump s flip-flop on his proposal to forcefully deport 11 million undocumented immigrants.The segment begins with Tapper playing a clip of Trump from last November where he clearly states that We re going to have a deportation force, that will seek out undocumented immigrants and deport them to their country of origin.Throughout his campaign, Trump has referred to the undocumented immigrants his force would target as criminals.
It s a clever bit of political double speak that trump has used.
It implies that he is only going after undocumented criminals.
From Trump s supporters viewpoints and his rhetoric, all undocumented immigrants are here illegally and are therefore criminals.
Now that Trump is in general election mode, they need to come up with specifics.
Trump cannot back away from his tough talk on immigration without burning his base.
However, he also has to bring the scale of his proposals down since they are so radical they sound like they originated from a neo-Nazi s fever dream and thus alienate everyone whose hobbies don t include cutting eyeholes into white sheets.That s why during the interview Pence insists that Trump hasn t pivoted on the issue: Nothing has changed about Donald Trump s position on dealing with illegal immigration.
His position and his principles have been absolutely consistent, Pence said.
The choice could not be more clear for the American people.
Donald Trump has been completely consistent in his positions.
Tapper doesn t buy it.
He responds to Pence saying: Except on this issue.
The one issue you didn t really address is whether or not the 11 or 12 million undocumented immigrants will be removed by a deportation force as you heard Mr. Trump say in that clip from November of last year.
Let be clear: Trump has been slowly pivoting on immigration since the general election began.
First, he wanted to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. Now, he wants to ban people who come from what he views as terrorist nations.
He is doing the same thing with his proposal to create a mass deportation force.
He has to.
Setting aside the fact that it would create one of the largest human rights crises in the world, it would also cost the U.S. around $600 billion dollars.
It would also have a side effect of completely destroying the U.S. economy.You can watch the interview below.Featured image from video screen capture