ENABLING HILLARY came to Senator Al Franken s defense on Friday during an interview for her new book, saying he should be praised for his accountability and willingness to apologize.
The problem with this is that Franken really HAD TO apologize because he was caught red-handed.
A picture of him groping a woman was evidence he made sexual groping a thing in his life.Clinton is clearly trying to play politics with this and uses it in a way that s really dirty.
We know Franken is guilty Roy Moore and Donald Trump had no women prove they did anything wrong yet Clinton tries to throw President Trump and Judge Roy Moore under the bus: Speaking to WABC Radio s Rita Cosby, the former Secretary of State instead pointed the finger at President Trump and embattled GOP Senate nominee Roy Moore claiming they should be viewed as the real predators, and not Franken:WHAT IS THIS WOMAN SMOKING: Look at the contrast between Al Franken, accepting responsibility, apologizing, and Roy Moore and Donald Trump who have done neither.
That is the kind of accountability I m talking about.
I don t hear that from Roy Moore or Donald Trump.
A former Playboy Playmate came forward this week and accused Franken, a Democrat from Minnesota, of groping her while the two were on a USO tour in 2006.
The senator offered his sincerest apologies on Thursday, saying he was just trying to be funny.Franken has inevitably drawn comparisons to Moore and Trump, both of whom have been accused of sexual misconduct.ALLEGATIONSWhile the president has been hit with sexual harassment allegations by numerous women in the past, Moore was only recently accused by his alleged victims in the fallout from the Harvey Weinstein scandal.
BLASTING TRUMP AND MOORE The 70-year-old politician seemed to focus most of her energy on blasting Trump and Moore with these nasty and bitter comments to Cosby: Trump has disgraced the office, she said, prompting Rita to ask whether the president had done anything in the last few months that impressed her.
No.
The answer is absolutely no, Rita I didn t think he d be as bad as he turned out to be.
WHAT A BITTER WOMAN!Read more: NYP