Please understand that our government is unable to know the exact number of Somalis we re taken in through all the different ways the government imports them.
The number above does not include all the Somalis who got in to the US through other means including the Diversity Visa Lottery (50K admitted in the name of diversity), those who received student visas and disappeared into the American woodwork, are here protected by Temporary Protected Status, or who came across one of our borders and applied for asylum (or simply disappeared) over the last 3 decades.And, in order for there to be only 129,000 people of Somali ancestry here it would require us to believe some who came to the US left the country, that a whole heck of a lot of them died while they weren t having babies for nearly 35 years!
It is nuts!When the government does census counts do they rely completely on who is willing to answer surveys, or do they make some attempt to look at government-held numbers about those who entered the country?
Apparently they rely on Somalis willing to tell them something!In addition to the 136,376 through FY16, we have admitted 4,478 in the last 4 months and 19 days.And, we pick up Somalis all over the world, and I can assure you that vetting the wandering Somalis is impossible.Here is where that 4,478 were placed since October 1, 2016 (according to Wrapsnet): Please check out Wrapsnet if you want to dig into your state or any other numbers.
It s a great resource!
The top five states welcoming Somalis since October 1, 2016 are Minnesota (609), New York (397), Ohio (306), Kentucky (283) and Arizona (276).
Virtually all Somalis are Muslims.
WHERE ARE THE CONGRESSMEN FROM THESE TOP FIVE STATES?
RAND PAUL, JOHN MCCAIN and others have been silent on the effort for the UN to push Somalis into our towns!
And, of all the ethnic groups entering the US right now, Somalis (I believe) lead the pack in the number of terrorist attacks or attempted terrorist attacks, or who have been arrested and convicted of helping to support jihadists in some form or another.Frankly, there is absolutely no reason for the US to take in more Somalis!
The UN is pushing them on us!Read more: RRW