Donald Trump is afraid of strong, powerful women.
He is a horrific misogynist, and has shown himself to be so over and over again.
That is nothing new.
He has mocked the weight of a beauty queen, made repeated suggestions about women s menstrual cycles, and had repeatedly called women who accuse men including himself of sexual harassment and sexual assault of being liars and threatened to sue him.
Now, he has gone even lower with an attack on Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY).In an early morning tweet, Trump actually suggested that Senator Gillibrand would have sex with him for campaign money.
No, I m not kidding.
Here is the tweet:Lightweight Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a total flunky for Chuck Schumer and someone who would come to my office begging for campaign contributions not so long ago (and would do anything for them), is now in the ring fighting against Trump.
Very disloyal to Bill & Crooked-USED!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2017For one thing, I don t think Kirsten Gillibrand has to beg the likes of Donald Trump for anything, and she certainly would not stoop anywhere near doing what Trump is suggesting for campaign money.
Think about this, folks: the sitting president is actually saying that a sitting Senator offered him sex in exchange for campaign money.
That is truly beyond the pale.
We already knew that Donald Trump was a sexist asshole, but this is a new low, even for him.General Kelly, General McMaster, and whomever else is running that White House DO SOMETHING about this fool s Twitter habit.
It is way out of control, and he does great damage to the nation with ever 140 280 character outburst.
This is outrageous.
Forget the fact that the orange overlord is currently squatting in the Oval Office no adult, period, should be acting like this.In this watershed Me Too moment in America, it is time to call out the Sexist-in-Chief for what he is a complete misogynist who has no respect for women and never has.
Ivanka, Melania, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Hope Hicks, and all the other women in Trump s orbit need to step up and say that there s been more than enough.
Curtail this man s sexist behavior, or turn in your woman card.
Every last one of you.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images