What would you do if you had a known video voyeur come up to you?
Well, Candice Spivey of Jacksonville, Florida just laid a verbal smack down on one guy named Jeffrey Polizzi when he forgot he had approached her before.
She took her own phone out, called him out on video and then proceeded to chase him right out of the Yulee, Florida Target.Spivey wrote in a Faceboo post: When he approached me yesterday he did not remember who I was, until I called him out on it in this video.
Adding: He starts out his conversation with the same punch line he uses here in the very beginning of this video saying, Hey there I don t mean to bother you but I just bought this maxi dress for my wife at Ross and I was kinda worried about the sheerness of it.
Spivey explains what happened the first time she got approached by Polizzi: Whiles he s asking these questions he s filming you with his cell phone, and I knew he was by the way he was holding his phone.
I had this feeling there was way more to what he was doing than just asking questions, it was very routine for him like he s been doing this for a long time.
So I went immediately to the front and reported him, they called the cops and he was banned from that publix.
It was NOT illegal what he was doing.
When Spivey was approached by Polizzi again in Target, she sprung into action.
She confronted him, and as she was chasing him, shouted for someone to call the police.
Unfortunately, he s still out there, so Spivey asks that if you run into him to contact the Nassau County Sheriff s Office, who is currently looking for possible victims.According to The Daily Mail: Police confirmed Polizzi has previously been charged with video voyeurism and issued an appeal last week for any other potential victims to come forward.Since then, scores of women have complained that they were approached by the man in similar scenarios.
The biggest thing Spivey wanted out of this video and confrontation was to make sure this slimeball s face gets out there to the public to warn them.
It s unbelievable, yet believable, that a man like this is free to walk around and not be taken into custody with several victims claiming it was him.Let s hope he gets caught soon by more than just Spivey, but by the police.Watch the confrontation here:Featured image via video screen capture