On April 3, 2017, Brooklyn-born Sarsour, daughter of Palestinian immigrants, shared the dais Sunday another darling of the feminist resistance, Rasmea Odeh convicted in Israel of killing two Hebrew University students in a 1969 terrorist attack and of planning an attack on the British Consulate.
After her release, Odeh was able to immigrate to the United States by hiding her crime.
She s now being deported to Jordan.It was a curious embrace of terrorism and anti-Semitism from a recipient of a $500,000 taxpayer grant from Mayor de Blasio, as Sarsour s group, the Arab American Association of New York, was last year.
Sarsour, in fact, has been an important ally of de Blasio s since his election a role she s sure to reprise in the mayor s bid for a second term.Sarsour said last month feminism is about the rights of all women.
Yet in the same interview, when asked whether there s room for people who support the state of Israel in the women s movement, she said: There can t be in feminism.
Apparently, Sarsour doesn t believe all women deserve equal rights Israeli and Israel-supporting women are an exception.
And, by her logic, since she isn t for the rights of all women, she isn t a feminist.
NYPThe Daily Caller reported that Sarsour spoke at the 54th annual convention of the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) last week and that she said she was not advocating for a violent form of jihad.
A word of truth in front of a tyrant ruler or leader, that is the best form of jihad, she said, quoting the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
I hope, that when we stand up to those who oppress our communities, that Allah accepts from us that as a form of jihad, that we are struggling against tyrants and rulers not only abroad in the Middle East or the other side of the world, but here in these United States of America where you have fascists and white supremacists and Islamophobes reining in the White House, said Sarsour, who was named a Champion of Change by the Obama administration in 2012.The activist, who helped organize the Women s March, spent much of her 22-minute speech attacking Trump.
When I wake up every morning and remember who is sitting in the White House, I am outraged, she said at one point.At the beginning of her speech, Sarsour thanked Siraj Wahaaj, a Brooklyn-based cleric who was named an unindicted co-conspirator in the first World Trade Center bombing.ISNA, the group hosting Sarsour, was named an unindicted co-conspirator in the Holy Land Foundation terror financing case.
The Holy Land Foundation helped funnel money to the terror group Hamas.Sarsour recently met a former Hamas operative named Salah Sarsour.
It is unclear if the two are related, though The Daily Caller reported in January that the pair posed for a photograph on the sidelines of a convention held in Chicago in December.
Sarsour has also come under fire for some of her past comments about other female activists.
In 2011, she posted a tweet saying that activists Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Brigitte Gabriel, both critics of Islam, should not be allowed to have vaginas.
Brigitte Gabriel = Ayaan Hirsi Ali.
She s asking 4 an a$$ whippin .
I wish I could take their vaginas away- they don t deserve to be women, she wrote at the time.In her ISNA speech, Sarsour suggested that Muslims in America should be wary of assimilation if it comes at the price of sacrificing their identity.
Our number one and top priority is to protect and defend our community.
It is not to assimilate and to please any other people in authority.
And our top priority is to please Allah, and only Allah, she said.