How is the wicked witch of the White House still allowed to talk on television?When House Republicans passed their Trumpcare bill on Thursday, they did so without reading it or getting a CBO score for it, which made it easier for them to close their eyes and vote to screw over the American people, including their own constituents.Trump s healthcare bill would strip healthcare from millions of Americans.
Prior to the Affordable Care Act, 45,000 people in this country died every year due to a lack of accessible and affordable healthcare.
The Trumpcare bill would repeal President Obama s signature law and put thousands of Americans at risk of dying because they can t get health insurance.But Kellyanne Conway went on Fox News on Sunday to deny that people die because of not having health insurance.
In short, her attempt to defend Trump s bill was pathetic and insulting.First, she referred to Americans who oppose Trump s bill as liars jeering from the cheap seats.
Look, it s easier to jeer from the cheap seats than come up with a message of your own and be honest about the facts, Conway said.
How did we get here?
Why have so many Americans asked for Obamacare to be repealed and replaced?
It s because you have premiums that have increased by 40 percent on average.
And then she whined about opponents warning that the bill will kill people and accused them of using scare tactics.
You know, saying people are going to die and the enablers in the mainstream media not calling out those breathless, heartless predictions, and going right on to prognostication for 2018.
Why in the world are we talking about who is going to win in 2018 when the duty of the mainstream media, of news reporters is to tell you what s actually in the bill, not to allow others to scare.
Here s the video via YouTube.You know who is really being breathless and heartless?
Kellyanne Conway.Once again, she is lying to the American people and insulting everyone who opposes Donald Trump and his downright evil agenda.It is a FACT that thousands of people died every year because they can t afford health insurance.The Affordable Care Act is not perfect, which is why Democrats have offered to work with Republicans to fix what needs to be fixed, but Republicans are so obsessed with erasing every achievement made by President Obama that they are unwilling to do so.
They would rather scrap the entire law instead.The problem is that the Republican bill does not protect people with pre-existing conditions.
In fact, it classifies pregnancy, PTSD, and sexual assault as pre-existing conditions that would disqualify people from getting health insurance.
Furthermore, it slaps senior citizens with an age tax and puts a limit on how long insurance will cover their needs.
It also makes them pay MORE for healthcare than they currently do now under the Affordable Care Act.Trump s bill would make it impossible for low-income Americans to afford health insurance, thereby sentencing them to death if they get seriously sick and can t afford care.Basically, Trump s bill really does include death panels, which, interestingly enough, was a lie that Republicans repeatedly used to scare people into opposing the Affordable Care Act.
Now they are accusing Democrats of doing the same thing even though Trump s bill would repeal a law that has literally saved thousands of lives over the years.
Trump s bill would end those lives.Featured Image: Screenshot