Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) has been worried about the mayhem Donald Trump was going to subject the GOP to since the very start of his campaign, and now that Trump is failing miserably in the polls, Graham is afraid the Republican Party could lose the majority in the U.S. Senate.According to a New York Times article, Graham unleashed on Trump, who he says is in a self-created death spiral and continues to bring the GOP down with him.
Graham, who is not supporting Trump, said: People are getting pretty nervous about our candidates because he s in a death spiral here and nobody knows where the bottom is at.
And although Trump is choosing to live in denial about the fact that Hillary Clinton is leading him by so much that it would be nearly impossible for Republican candidates to survive, Graham is well aware of what is at stake.
However, Graham says that it might be dangerous for the GOP to disavow Trump this far into the presidential race because it might discourage conservatives from showing up at the polls at all.
Graham said: It s going to be like Weekend at Bernie s you got to make him look alive, even if he s not.
After Trump had a few weeks of spewing some of the most offensive, controversial comments he d ever made, the presidential nominee made some massive changes to his campaign, although it s probably too late.
Earlier this week, Graham said that Trump had alienated voters so much that he stands no chance against Clinton in November, no matter what he does.
Graham said: Mitt Romney got 27 percent of the Hispanic vote.
By 2050, a majority of the country will be African-American, Hispanic, Asian and others, and we re losing demographically.
We ve gone from 44 percent with Bush to 27 percent with Romney, and I don t think Donald Trump s gonna get 20 percent.
Graham s right.
Currently, Trump is only polling at 2% with African American voters and don t expect the Hispanic population, whom Trump offended several times earlier this year, to be any more promising.
Trump has single-handedly destroyed the GOP, and Graham knows it may never fully recover.Featured image via Justin Sullivan / Getty Images