What s happening within the Donald Trump campaign is absolutely disgraceful.
The Republican front-runner has been openly condoning violence at his rallies, going so far as to say he would even pay the legal fees of those going after protesters.Then there s the issue of Trump s utter racism which is obvious and abhorrent.
He s consistently going after minority groups, blaming them for all the nation s problems, and somehow Trump and his overwhelmingly white group of supporters are apparently the ones who are being oppressed.
This is literally reminiscent of another fascist ideologue from Europe in the 1930s and 40s.And of course, Trump s son, Donald Trump Jr., is defending his father the whole way and completely cementing the fact that they believe the aggression is against them and not the other way around.
However, the brilliant and talented John Legend took a moment to step in and school them on what is actually going on..@DonaldJTrumpJr I think they were protesting your racist father.
This isn't complicated.
John Legend (@johnlegend) March 12, 2016But of course, some jackass decides to just blindly call Legend uneducated because he had the audacity to disagree with Trump and Trump Junior, so the Grammy Award winner tweets out a very interesting and funny fact..@DanielT03571138 @DonaldJTrumpJr the Donalds and I graduated from the same University, funny enough.
John Legend (@johnlegend) March 12, 2016Legend then drives the point home, after what can only be assumed hundreds of tweet replies telling him that he is really the racist, by posting an article about how Donald Trump turned away people of color.
Thus exposing who the true racist is.
Yes, Trump trolls.
I'm the real racist.
https://t.co/xzgMsEPeh4 John Legend (@johnlegend) March 12, 2016Racism is alive and well in America, in particular among those supporting Donald Trump.
And this racism isn t new, it hasn t been brought about by anyone, it never went away, but rather into hiding.
However, with people like Donald Trump openly spewing his racist rhetoric at any chance he can get, it opened the floodgates for racists everywhere to feel that behavior is now somehow acceptable.But guess what?
We are in the year 2016, and racism will be called out.
This isn t an infringement on any constitutional right.
In fact, it is the right of the protesters to openly dissent and condemn racism where it stands.Featured image via Instagram/Instagram/Twitter