You know all that buzz you are hearing about a likely Hillary Clinton FBI indictment?
This may be the shocker of all shockers, but it s completely made up.Before right-wing pundits popped the corks on their champagne bottles, this lie was uttered by Fox News Bret Baier, who claimed that two separate sources with intimate knowledge of the FBI investigations ha confirmed not only that the Clinton Foundation investigation is far more expansive than anybody has reported so far but that there is a lot of evidence and that the sources say it will end in likely an indictment.
This would be a bombshell revelation if it were true.
On Thursday, however, Baier explained that his claims were inartful :MARTHA MACCALLUM (CO-HOST): The FBI sources that you spoke with suggest that an indictment is likely.
That would prove go ahead.BRET BAIER: I want to be clear I want to be clear about this, and this was came from a Q and A that I did with Brit Hume after my show and after we went through everything.
He asked me if, after the election, if Hillary Clinton wins, will this investigation continue, and I said, yes absolutely.
I pressed the sources again and again what would happen.
I got to the end of that and said, they have a lot of evidence that would, likely lead to an indictment.
But that s not, that s inartfully answered.
That s not the process.
That s not how you do it.
You have to have a prosecutor.
If they don t move forward with a prosecutor with the DOJ, there would be, I m told, a very public call for an independent prosecutor to move forward.
There is confidence in the evidence, but for me to phrase it like I did, of course that got picked up everywhere, but the process is different than that.That s his way of saying he was lying.
The next time one of your right-wing friends (if you have any left at this point) parrots his ridiculous claims, show them his retraction that their absolute best argument against Hillary Clinton is based on a lie.Watch it below:Featured image via screengrab