Cancer can take a lot out of a person, especially once treatments begin.
Lelania Chapman was hiking through the woods after seven months of cancer treatments when she stumbled upon four teenage boys who were stranded on a cliff.
I ve never been in a situation like that before and you never know what you are going to be like, Chapman, who had stayed home during the bulk of her treatments, told TODAY.
No matter what, you are a lot stronger than you think you are.
For the bulk of her treatments, this amazing woman stayed home, only leaving to go to the doctor.
But after her final treatment, she took her 9-year-old son and three neighborhood children on a waterfall hike near her home outside of Vancouver, Canada despite receiving bad news from doctors that more tumors had appeared and her cancer had spread.
Instead of focusing on the negatives she not only was able to show her son and the other children a good time, but she became an unlikely hero when an 11-year-old girl in her group thought she heard someone shouting.
Chapman didn t hear it at first, but after investigating they found the teens trapped on a rock by the falls, their lips purple from the cold.Chapman tried to call for help, but there was no cellular service.
She started to walk back to her truck to attempt to get service but she heard one of the boys cry I just want my mom.
Deciding that she couldn t leave them there and despite being weakened from months of cancer treatments, Chapman leaped into action.
Some people say it s a mother s instinct, she told TODAY.
Chapman grabbed a rope from her backpack and climbed down the ravine to get closer to the boys.
They then tossed her a length of their own rope, which she tied to the biggest tree she could find, wrapped it around her waist, and tossed it back to the boys.
The biggest of the teens, who stands about 6 feet tall and weighs about 160 pounds climbed up first to help rescue the others.
Despite her smaller frame due to losing weight from the cancer treatments, Chapman (who had difficulty lifting a watermelon at this point) managed to pull him up.
I don t know how I picked him up by myself, she said.
I don t really know to this day.
Chapman bashed her knee and some of the radiation burns and scars from her treatment tore open from the strain, but the heroic mom gave into her mama bear instincts and pulled the boys up one by one.
When only the smallest of the boys was left, she feared her rope might break.
But Chapman didn t give up.
She laid on her belly and talked to the final teen, who told her he was just going to jump.
I told him it wasn t a good idea and if he jumped, I would have to jump, and he just really needed to trust me, she said.
Ultimately, the team was able to pull him up.
She walked with the teens to the parking lot, where she called their mothers.As Chapman made dinner later, a 7-year-old girl from her group said something incredibly inspirational: Yep, that s just what we do.
We fight cancer and save boys.
This experience has greatly impacted her son, Gwindin.
Though Chapman has a long battle ahead of her, Gwindin is no longer scared: He said You know what, mom?
You are going to [beat] cancer because you are the strongest mom around,' she said.
That is probably one of the most important lessons that I learned that day.
I do have the strength.
Here are some photos of Chapman proving that a mother s ability to transform into an almost superhuman protector is not at all a myth: A GoFundMe page set up to help pay for expenses related to Chapman s future cancer treatments has raised half of its $15,000 goal.
If you have some spare loot, help her out!Featured image via TODAY