Sylville Smith s sister Sherelle, was suddenly thrust into the spotlight after her brother was shot dead by police after a traffic stop on August 13th.
She uses her time in front of several microphones to ask rioters for calm in her city.
She implores them to instead to take their fight to the same suburbs where ironically, the semi-automatic handgun found on her brother had been stolen, along with 500 rounds of ammunition only months before.
We need our shit says the girl who lives in a city run by Democrats that relies on the working citizens in the suburbs to sustain them.Sylville Smith's sister Sherelle encourages "protestors" to burn the suburbs @Cernovich @CassandraRules @rooshv pic.twitter.com/prxR2prcUV DeeconX (@DeeconX) August 15, 2016CNN praised his sister for her comments:This how how @CNN praises people that incite riots @CassandraRules @Cernovich @MongoAggression #Milwaukee #MSM pic.twitter.com/61JRPK2q7w DeeconX (@DeeconX) August 15, 2016The incident started Saturday afternoon when two officers stopped two people who were in a car in the north side, according to the Milwaukee Police Department.Shortly after, both car occupants fled on foot as officers pursued them, police said.During the chase, an officer shot one of the two 23-year-old Sylville Smith, who was armed with a handgun, according to authorities.
He (officer) ordered that individual to drop his gun, the individual did not drop his gun, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett said.
He had the gun with him and the officer fired several times.
Sylville Smith refused to obey the orders of the police officers.Smith was shot twice in the arm and chest, the mayor said.
His handgun was stolen during a burglary in Waukesha in March, according to police.
The victim of that burglary reported 500 rounds of ammunition were also stolen with the handgun, police said in a statement.The officer, 24, was assigned to District 7 and has six years of service with the Milwaukee Police Department three of those as an officer.
Fox6NowResidents who had no evidence of any wrongdoing on the part of the police officer began to burn the city down.
Firefighters were slow to respond, as rioters were throwing bricks at police officers, smashing police cars and firing several shots into the crowds.The violence continued again last night:#BREAKING: BLM Rioters arerunning through #Milwaukeestreets, vandalizing property#MilwaukeeUnrestpic.twitter.com/iSdvm7qDpZ AlwaysActions (@AlwaysActions) August 15, 2016