Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appears to be concerned about being spied on.
A photo that he shared to help celebrate Instagram s 500 million monthly active users shows the camera and audio jack on the billionaire s Macbook covered with pieces of tape.
In the photo posted on Tuesday, Zuckerberg is sporting a wide smile and his signature gray T-shirt and dark denim jeans.
He s holding a life-sized Instagram frame that reads: Thanks to everyone in our community for helping us reach this milestone!
After posting the photo online, several Internet users spotted and pointed out the tape covering his camera and audio jack on his Macbook at his desk.
It s rumored that skilled hackers are able to take over the front facing cameras on laptops when they re not covered up.
It appears as though Zuckerberg, who is worth $35.7billion, is trying to prevent that from happening by placing a piece of tape over his camera, making the webcam useless.
Zuckerberg has been previously photographed at the same desk.
Roughly nine months ago while on a tour, he showed off the same desk that s complete with the same items on it then as it is now, according to Gizmodo.Read more: Daily MailTHE FUTURE OF FACEBOOK: LIBERAL VIDEO, VIDEO, VIDEOFacebook is paying huge money to liberal news sights to produce live video and other news to push out Buzzfeed, New York Times and other liberal news sources like CNN are involved in producing live video which they say is the future of Facebook.
You might ask why only liberal news sites used except for the fact that suppression of conservative news has been exposed in the last few weeks.
It s been known for some time that Facebook is paying media companies and celebrities cash in return for using its Facebook Live video feature, but what hasn t been known is exactly how much it is paying them.
According to a document recently obtained by the Wall Street Journal, the social networking giant has signed as many as 140 contracts worth a total of $50 million.The list of media outlets being paid by Facebook includes traditional players such as CNN and the New York Times, the Journal says, as well as digital-only publishers like Vox, Mashable, and BuzzFeed.
The celebrities who are being compensated for creating live video include comedian Kevin Hart and chef Gordon Ramsay.Some contracts are worth smaller amounts, while 17 of the deals Facebook has signed are worth more than $1 million, according to the document obtained by the Journal.
Two media outlets are getting paid more than $3 million to create live video BuzzFeed and the New York Times, and CNN is not far behind, with a reported payment of $2.5 million.Get Data Sheet, Fortune s technology newsletter.The first reports about Facebook FB 0.90% paying media companies and/or celebrities to create live video emerged in March, when Recode reported that COO Sheryl Sandberg was in Hollywood talking with talent agencies and artists representatives, and offering to get out her checkbook to get them using the platform.
The live-streaming feature was launched first for celebrities in 2015, then rolled out to everyone.In April, the executive in charge of Facebook Live, Fidji Simo (who we spoke with recently about the platform) told Recode that the company was also working with media partners, and said in some of the cases that includes a financial incentive.
(Time Inc., which owns Fortune, has a relationship with Facebook that relates to the creation of Facebook Live video).Also in April, BuzzFeed confirmed in a roundabout way that it was one of the partners being paid by Facebook.
A story about paying video creators quoted an anonymous source as saying that the social network was paying media partners around $250,000 for 20 posts per month over a three-month period, and then mentioned parenthetically that BuzzFeed was one of them.
Via: Fortune