President Obama has reportedly told top Democratic donors that he does not see a winning path forward for Senator Bernie Sanders, and that it is time for the party to close ranks and unify behind Secretary Hillary Clinton s presidential campaign.That news comes from a new New York Times report from the campaign trail.In unusually candid remarks, President Obama privately told a group of Democratic donors last Friday that Senator Bernie Sanders is nearing the point where his campaign against Hillary Clinton will come to an end, and that the party must soon come together to back her.
[ ]Mr. Obama made the remarks after reporters had left a fund-raising event in Austin, Tex., for the Democratic National Committee.
The comments were described by three people in the room for the event, all of whom were granted anonymity to describe a candid moment with the president.
The comments were later confirmed by a White House official.Mr.
Obama chose his words carefully, and did not explicitly call on Mr. Sanders to depart the race, according to those in the room.
Still, those in attendance said in interviews that they took his comments as a signal to Mr. Sanders that perpetuating his campaign, which is now an uphill climb, could only help the Republicans recapture the White House.Interestingly, Obama s comments were made before Clinton swept all five states that held primaries this past Tuesday, which has given her a lead of 323 delegates over Senator Sanders.According to analysis of the remaining delegates left in the race which are allocated proportionately instead of winner take all Sanders would have to win 60% of the remaining delegates in the primaries to come, which is unlikely.Clinton and her team have apparently begun to pivot towards the likely general election matchup against Donald Trump.
In her speech on Tuesday night, she called out the Republican frontrunner for his bigoted attacks on women, latinos, and Muslims.
She also remarked, Our next president has to bring our country together.
We should be breaking down barriers, not building walls.
The current RealClearPolitics average of national polls shows Clinton beating Trump by 6.3%, and the most recent national poll from NBC/Wall Street Journal shows her beating him by 13%.Featured image via Flickr