The Republican presidential candidates have been shamelessly revealing their deepest desires to spank a certain popular Democrat.While it s understandable that candidates will talk smack about their opponents and use more colorful language, the GOP candidates have completely crossed the line by repeatedly talking about how much they want to spank Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.Following a loss at the Iowa Caucus earlier this week, Chris Christie went to New Hampshire to raise eyebrows and earn a few uncomfortable laughs by making a misogynistic joke about how badly he would beat [Clinton s] rear end if they were to ever go head to head against each other in a debate.
The GOPer said: You know the last person she wants to see on that stage in September?
You re looking at him.
You know why?
She s been running away from federal prosecutors for the last six months.
She sees a federal prosecutor on the stage, I ll beat her rear end on that stage, and after I do, she ll be relieved because she ll just be worried I was going to serve her with a subpoena.
You can watch Christie make the crowd shift uncomfortably in their seats below via ABC:WATCH: @ChrisChristie promises to beat Clinton s rear end on debate stage https://t.co/TYKQ3wwG72https://t.co/j3XMYAFXJA ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) February 3, 2016Christie has gained a reputation for making off-the-wall comments about his rivals, but the right s disturbing fascination with spanking especially when Clinton is concerned is getting out of hand.
Just last month, Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz revealed his own weird, creepy fantasy about spanking the former Secretary of State.As fully grown adult human beings, we all have thoughts that come across our minds throughout the day, and the majority of us know which ones should be kept to ourselves to maintain our own dignity and keep the environment around us respectful and peaceful.
Unfortunately, this election has brought about the worst in the Republican candidates and it seems that every racist, bigotry-filled and misogynistic thought needs to be expressed loud and clear.
The GOP has no filter, and unfortunately what has been said cannot be unheard.
Featured image via screenshot