Malia s internship with pedophile Lena Dunham comes on the heels of her taxpayer funded European tour to London, Venice and Milan with her sister Sasha, Mooch and of course, Mooch s mom (as no taxpayer funded vacation would be complete without).Dream job?Malia Obama has landed a summer internship on the set of HBO s raunchy show Girls during which she ll be working with actress and proud feminist Lena Dunham, according to a report in US Weekly.Specifically, a source close to the television show s production team told the magazine of Malia, She s a fan, and she mentioned that to Lena [Dunham] when she came to the White House.
I m not sure how long she ll be interning for.
It s a bit of a trial thing for her.
They ve known each other and discussed for a while.
Lena and her get along great.
The gig would make sense, as Malia was was photographed last week in Brooklyn drinking a soda on the set of Girls, though at the time it was uncertain whether she was working on the set or perhaps playing a guest role in an episode.
Via: Red Alert PoliticsTruth Revolt: In her newly published collection of personal essays, Not That Kind of Girl, Lena Dunham describes experimenting sexually with her younger sister Grace, whom she says she attempted to persuade to kiss her using anything a sexual predator might do.
In one particularly unsettling passage, Dunham experimented with her six-year younger sister s vagina.
This was within the spectrum of things I did, she writes.
anything a sexual predator might do to woo a small suburban girl I was trying.
In the collection of nonfiction personal accounts, Dunham describes using her little sister at times essentially as a sexual outlet, bribing her to kiss her for prolonged periods and even masturbating while she is in the bed beside her.
But perhaps the most disturbing is an account she proudly gives of an episode that occurred when she was seven and her sister was one.Here s the full passage (p. 158-9): Do we all have uteruses?
I asked my mother when I was seven.
Yes, she told me.
We re born with them, and with all our eggs, but they start out very small.
And they aren t ready to make babies until we re older.
I look at my sister, now a slim, tough one-year-old, and at her tiny belly.
I imagined her eggs inside her, like the sack of spider eggs in Charlotte s Web, and her uterus, the size of a thimble.
Does her vagina look like mine?
I guess so, my mother said.
Just smaller.
One day, as I sat in our driveway in Long Island playing with blocks and buckets, my curiosity got the best of me.
Grace was sitting up, babbling and smiling, and I leaned down between her legs and carefully spread open her vagina.
She didn t resist and when I saw what was inside I shrieked.My mother came running.
Mama, Mama!
Grace has something in there!
My mother didn t bother asking why I had opened Grace s vagina.
This was within the spectrum of things I did.
She just got on her knees and looked for herself.
It quickly became apparent that Grace had stuffed six or seven pebbles in there.
My mother removed them patiently while Grace cackled, thrilled that her prank had been a success.Dunham describes the book as a work of nonfiction in which some names and identifying details have been changed.
She also states that she considers herself an unreliable narrator, which gives her some wiggle room on the truth of her accounts.
As National Review s Kevin D. Williamson notes, this passage is especially suspicious.
The one-year old Grace s prank is supposedly done with the expectation of her older sister poking around in her genitals.
There is no non-horrific interpretation of this episode.
UpdateAfter Lena Dunham went on a self-described rage spiral in response to this article, which she called f*cking upsetting and disgusting, her lawyer sent a cease and desist letter to TruthRevolt threatening to sue us for millions of dollars if we did not pull the piece and post a retraction stating that this story was false.
TruthRevolt refused.Monday, TruthRevolt editor-in-chief Ben Shapiro posted a response to the cease and desist letter, which includes more of the passages from her book upon which our assessment was based and argues that quoting a woman s book does not constitute a false story :Lena Dunham may not like our interpretation of her book, but unfortunately for her and her attorneys, she wrote that book and the First Amendment covers a good deal of material she may not like.