NBC News handpicked anti-Trump tykes for two propaganda videos to make it appear that every child in American thinks Pres.
Trump is an ignorant racist and threat to the country.The video starts out with a blurry picture of President Trump (the kind of picture used in political ads by the opponent to make the candidate look bad) and goes downhill from there:Not one child in either Dear Mr. President: kids Talk Trump or Dear Mr. President: Letters from the American Children says he actually supports Trump s efforts to keep America safe from terrorism or stop the influx of illegal aliens.Both videos open with smarmy, false compliments to give the illusion that these kids haven t been indoctrinated by leftist teachers and liberal media but, then, both launch into unrelenting snide rebukes couched in innocent-kid-speak.The kids accuse Trump of racism and violence against blacks: Most of my family is black.
I m afraid that you re gonna hurt some of us blacks.
You are here, attempting to white-wash America.
I don t like your definition of American, because I don t seem to fit within it.
These adolescent activists really, really don t want a border wall or travel ban on state-sponsors of terror, because it s not nice and fair : Not letting immigrants into America is really not nice, so please let them in.
It s not fair for refugees.
Just because I m Mexican, doesn t mean you can build a wall around the country.
Please don t build a wall, and don t let people have guns.
P.S.
Please don t build a wall around Mexico.
P.P.S.
Please, please don t stop the refugees from coming.
You re going to separate me away from the rest of my family, and I really don t what that because I love them too much.
Some of my friends are really scared about you building a wall, and the travel ban, because a lot of their families live in different places.
WATCH: And, then, there s this rebuke from a young lady who appears in both videos: When you speak on things that make me feel uncomfortable or I disagree with, you make me feel small, because I know I can t change it.
Apparently, the president should never disagree with her or say things she doesn t like because it ll hurt Susie Snowflake s feelings.
CNS news HERE S THE SECOND VIDEO: