Trevor Noah has been criticized for not taking on Fox News as much as Jon Stewart used to do, but on Wednesday, the new Daily Show host proved he can be just as tough on them.On Tuesday, President Obama delivered a speech announcing new executive actions to combat the epidemic of gun violence in this country.
As he referenced the 20 children murdered at Sandy Hook, Obama could no longer hold in his emotions and began to shed tears.
Clearly, the deaths of these children and all the children who have been killed by guns affects him deeply.But the heartless hosts of Fox News quickly accused President Obama of faking crying.
Andrea Tantaros of Outnumbered stirred much outrage after suggesting that Obama kept an onion in the podium.
I would check that podium for like a raw onion or some No More Tears, Tantaros said in agreement with her colleagues.
It s not really believable.
And the award goes to we are in awards season.
Trevor Noah, on the other hand, had a completely different reaction.
He praised President Obama and declared that it is about time that something was finally done to combat gun violence.
Noah even appreciated President Obama s raw emotion.
See that thing you re feeling right now, that pain in your chest that comes from watching someone weep on national television, because he knows that society can do better than to file the shooting of children under shit happens?
That feeling is how you know that you re human.
No matter how opposed to Obama s policies people may be or how cynical their politics they have to at least acknowledge and respect the raw authenticity of that emotion.
Or so you would think.
After playing a clip of Tantaros accusing Obama of crying fake tears, Noah expressed his disgust and lamented that she shares the title of human being with everyone else.
Are you fucking kidding me?!
Shedding tears when you think of murdered children is not really believable?
You know what?
There is something here that is not really believable, the fact that the rest of us have to share the title of human being with you.
Here s the video via Comedy Central.The Daily Show with Trevor Noah Get More: The Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,The Daily Show Video ArchiveAndrea Tantaros is a vile sorry excuse for a human being for accusing President Obama of pretending to cry over children whose lives were cut unfairly short by guns.
It is absolutely heartless for anyone to think such a thing, and Tantaros should be ashamed of herself.Featured image via video screen capture