In response to her male GOP colleague s insistence that women s reproductive decisions be ridiculously regulated, a female Kentucky lawmaker is fighting back.Democratic state Rep. Mary Lou Marzian is sick and tired of Republicans attacking abortion rights in her state and she isn t taking it anymore.
So she introduced Bill 396, which would require men to seek permission slips from their wives and present the note to their doctor in order to get access to Viagra, a little blue pill that gives men boners.And that s not all.
In addition to the note, men must also put their hand on a Bible at the doctor s office and swear an oath that they are married and are only using the Viagra so they can have sex only with their wives.
That means family values conservative lawmakers would have to promise the Lord that they want to have sex with their wives and not that pretty intern they ve been perving on for weeks.Sorry, Republicans.
Not kidding.
The bill literally requires a man to make a sworn statement with his hand on a Bible that he will only use a prescription for a drug for erectile dysfunction when having sexual relations with his current spouse.
I want to protect these men from themselves, Marzian told the Courier-Journal about the legislation.
This is about family values.
She knows what she is talking about, too.
Marzian is a trained nurse so if she says this is about protecting men s health, then it must be taken seriously.Of course, Republicans will never take this kind of legislation seriously until a women-dominated legislature is in place ready to show men what it feels like to have their bodies and privacy attacked.This isn t the first time a female lawmaker has fought fire with fire.
Many have introduced the same kind of bill in states across the country, including Ohio state Senator Nina Turner back in 2012.
Her bill would have required men to visit a sex therapist, undergo a cardiac stress test, and get their sexual partner to sign a notarized affidavit confirming impotency in order to get a prescription for Viagra.And like Turner s bill, Marzian s bill is a direct response to an extreme anti-abortion bill.
Senate Bill 4, which Kentucky Republicans actually passed, forces women to obtain informed consent from a counselor 24 hours prior to getting an abortion.
Do we really want a bunch or legislators interfering in private, personal, medical decisions?
Marzian asked.Only male lawmakers do apparently, as long as the interference is in the private, personal, and medical decisions of women and not men.Featured Image: Tim Reckmann/Wikimedia