Lyin Donald Trump tweeted this morning that former President Barack Obama was responsible for 122 vicious prisoners being released from Guantanamo Bay and returning to the battlefield.
However, that never happened.
Trump is blaming an unemployed black guy for his predecessor s actions.
Trump s tweet read, 122 vicious prisoners, released by the Obama Administration from Gitmo, have returned to the battlefield.
Just another terrible decision!
That s some real Alt-fact thinking right there.
So White House press secretary Sean Spicer had to clean up after his boss s mess but he did a terrible job.The Office of the Director of National Intelligence states that 113 of the 122 former detainees who have taken up arms again were released before Obama s first term, meaning during the Bush administration s time in office.
Obviously the president meant in totality, the number that had been released on the battlefield that have been released from Gitmo since individuals have been released, Spicer told reporters on Tuesday.
That is correct.
We know that hurts your brain, too.Sure, OBVIOUSLY, when Trump said Obama he really meant something else.The White House is backpedaling on Trump s accusation that Obama tapped the amateur president before the election.
CNN s Jim Acosta asked Spicer, Where is the proof?
Spicer said that it s not a question of new proof or less proof or whatever, but it s about bringing in Congress to get to the bottom of this.Then this happened:New York Times Glenn Thrush followed up by pressing Spicer again on the evidence for Trump s claims, and after that Reuters Ayesha Rascoe asked Spicer about whether Trump can just make declarative statements like that on Twitter and then get committees to look into it.Spicer went on to insist that going through the intelligence committees is the proper avenue for investigating.
Rascoe asked whether we should, then, be taking Trump s tweets at face value.
Watch Spicer squirm:That s what you call a swing and a miss, Sean.White House spokesman Sean Spicer says WH will not present any proof of President Trump's allegation that President Obama committed a crime.
Binyamin Appelbaum (@BCAppelbaum) March 7, 2017Spicer doesn t want the GOP plan to replace Obamacare called Trumpcare and we don t blame him because it s a fucking raw deal for everyone except the wealthy.Sean Spicer "It's not TrumpCare, it's PatientCare.
"Yes, be PATIENT because you'll need to win the lottery to afford it.#PressBriefing Tommy Campbell (@MrTommyCampbell) March 7, 2017Back to Gitmo.
As it happens, more than 500 detainees were released by George W. Bush and we re not hatin .Here s the video:Featured image via screen capture.