Donald Trump is NOT going to like this at all.The FBI played a major role in the 2016 election.
So much of a role, in fact, that they may have thrown the election to Donald Trump.Months after closing the investigation of Hillary Clinton s emails, FBI Director James Comey outrageously opened the investigation again during the home-stretch of the campaign season.
It was a huge gift to Trump and Republicans that may have swung the election in their favor.Now a prominent Holocaust attorney who specializes in recovering artwork stolen by the Nazis has filed a lawsuit against the FBI to find out if Trump or someone from Trump s team convinced the FBI to drop a bombshell on the election.As we all know, the FBI cleared Clinton again not long after reopening the investigation.
But the damage had already been done and now the country faces an uncertain and destructive future with Trump at the helm of the executive branch.
I filed a lawsuit today against the US Department of Justice seeking immediate disclosure of the FBI search warrant for the e-mails of Hillary Clinton and Huma Abedin on Anthony Weiner s laptop, E, Randol Schoenberg announced on Facebook.
I think we need to see what probable cause was shown for obtaining the search warrant, because whoever thought there was going to be evidence of a crime was obviously mistaken.
And that mistake probably changed the outcome of the election.
Indeed, and if that someone was Trump or someone on his campaign, that could be grounds for impeachment.
In fact, Rudy Giuliani used to be Comey s boss and he notably bragged about being in communication with the FBI during the investigation.
So if it turns out the FBI reopened the investigations because of Giuliani, Trump could be in big trouble.
What if the allegations were intentionally false?
Schoenberg asked on his blog.
During the nine days when the investigation was underway, Trump surrogate Rudy Giuliani made public statements suggesting he was in communication with the FBI about the ongoing investigation.
It does not seem too far-fetched to believe that politically-motivated individuals might have tried to get the FBI to re-open the investigation of Clinton by making false allegations.
Finding Huma Abedin s e-mails on Weiner s laptop might have been just an opportunity to carry out their wishes.
Access to the search warrant is critical for the public to learn the basis for the re-opening of the investigation to ensure that the FBI acted in a manner consistent with its constitutional obligations under the Fourth Amendment, Schoenberg continued.
This is potentially very serious, something that if traced back to Donald Trump might even lead to impeachment.
It deserves to be investigated fully and openly, and quickly, because if a crime was committed in the course of the FBI investigation, it is the crime of the century.
If Donald Trump or anyone in his corner used the FBI as some kind of secret weapon to launch an October surprise to steal the election it would be a serious crime that should not only result in Trump s impeachment, but the impeachment of every member of his administration.Furthermore, if the FBI abused their power the entire Bureau should face serious consequences.And finally, if Schoenberg s lawsuit successfully discovers treachery, this country should immediately hold an entirely new election because if Trump and the FBI worked together to rig it, Americans deserve it.Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images