21st Century Wire says One of the most elaborate crimes of the century continues to be whitewashed SMOKE SCREEN Photo Illustration 21WIRE s Shawn Helton There are many doorways into the crimes of 9/11.
After the attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center, President George W. Bush called for the creation of remote control systems in commercial airliners in the event of an emergency.
By design, this technology would grant air traffic controllers, along with other government entities, the ability to control an aircraft and steer it towards its final intended destination.Based on history, we know that the Flight Management Systems within Boeing models have been capable of assisting the entire flight through its remote autopilot functions since at least 1984, well before Bush s politically motivated calls for remote control flights in the aftermath of 9/11.From the mid-1980 s, the coded software on the plane would send data to ground control stations, accepting any return flight information or auto-land command.
In addition to civilian aircraft being flown remotely before it was acknowledged, the U.S. Air Force apparently constructed an F-106 Delta Dart fighter to be controlled remotely on a combat mission in 1959 under the direction of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD).There has been an endless dispute over the how of 9/11 and the who, as well as the various methods used to carry out the crimes of that day.
There s an even heavier debate over what brought down WTC Building 7 and since then, other 9/11 rabbit holes have also challenged the nature of the planes said to be involved in both New York and Washington DC.Whether you re curious and bold enough to head down that path is a whole different matter, but the fact remains, the technology to take over a commercial flight existed long before 9/11.Whatever your thoughts are concerning planes on 9/11 it s still worth noting that even the mainstream media admitted at the time that there was, no evidence of a plane at all, following the destruction of a portion of the Pentagon s western side.Indeed, 15 years on, there are still many more question than there are plausible answers.More from Paul Craig Roberts below Einst rzende Neubauten A single day has shaped the modern world.
(Image Source: downtownexpress)9/11: 15 Years Of A Transparent LiePaul Craig RobertsThere are many conspiracy theories about 9/11.
The US government s own explanation of 9/11 is a conspiracy theory in which a few Saudi Arabians outwitted the American national security state.
Little doubt that many of the more imaginative conspiracy theories were created for the purpose of stigmatizing any skepticism, no matter how well reasoned and supported, of the official story.When thinking about 9/11, it is important to differentiate expert opinion from improbable explanations.Among the expert opinion are 2,600 structural engineers and high-rise architects who comprise Architects & Engineers for 9/11 truth and have written to Congress asking for a real investigation, Firefighters for 9/11 truth, Pilots for 9/11 truth, physicists and chemists who analyzed the dust from the twin towers and report finding reacted and unreacted materials used in controlled demolitions, and former government officials who understand that a security failure as great as 9/11 would have produced an immediate and exacting investigation.These groups of qualified and experienced people say that the official story of 9/11 is false.
Architects, engineers, and scientists say that the official story is physically impossible.
Firefighters and WTC maintenance personnel say that there were numerous explosions within the towers and that the first explosions were in the sub-basements prior to the buildings being hit by airplanes.
Experienced military and civilian pilots say the maneuvers of the aircraft are beyond the capability of the alleged hijackers.
Both co-chairman of the 9/11 Commission and the legal counsel have written books in which they have said that information was withheld from the Commission, that the US government lied to the Commission, and that the Commission was set up to failIn other words, the hard evidence simply does not support the official story.We know that the official story is false.
We don t know who is responsible or the purpose the event was intended to serve.
However, circumstantial evidence strongly supports suspicion of the neoconservatives whose high positions in the government would have enabled them to succeed with a false flag attack and to delay and divert any investigation until the official story was set in stone.
We also know from the dancing Israelis that elements in the Israeli government had advance notice of the attack as Israeli agents were set up ready to film the destruction of the twin towers.More from Paul Craig Roberts here READ MORE 9/11 NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire 9/11 Files