Congressman Steve King (R-IA) is pretty much the most openly racist person sitting in Congress.
He recently came under fire for tweeting openly white supremacist sentiments about western civilization and not being able to restore it with somebody else s babies.
Here is that awful tweet:Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny.
We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies.
https://t.co/4nxLipafWO Steve King (@SteveKingIA) March 12, 2017Now, he is giving Donald Trump a warning about sidelining white supremacist Steve Bannon in the White House in favor of more left-leaning advisers like Trump s daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner.
This warning comes because word on the street is that there is a battle brewing between Bannon and Kushner, and it seems that Bannon is losing big time.
In fact, Bannon may indeed be on his way out.Well, this is not sitting well with the white supremacists who have championed Trump so long and so hard, and indeed were instrumental in putting him into the White House.
They even deliberately trended #FireKushner to send a message to Trump about where his priorities should lie.
Rep. King chimed in with similar sentiments Sunday night, tweeting at Trump:@RealDonaldTrump Steve Bannon is the lynchpin to your energized base.
Conservatives are an endangered species in your White House.
Steve King (@SteveKingIA) April 10, 2017So, in other words, King is warning Trump that if he gives in to what the alt-right (read: white supremacists) call Ivanka and Jared s globalist leanings and policies, he s finished and his base will turn on him.
This is probably true.
However, the idea that Trump would pick Bannon in a showdown between the former Breitbart head and his daughter and son-in-law is downright laughable.
So, suck it, Steve King.
You won t be getting your way on this one.If the Bannon v. Kushner feud continues, Bannon will be pushed out, and there will be marginally more reasonable people who have Trump s ear.
The side effect will be a betrayed and outraged alt-right and conservative base, which will ensure Donald Trump s defeat in 2020, along with his feuding with the Republicans on Capitol Hill who will surely not bow to his daughter and son-in-law s largely Democratic policies.So, bad for Republicans and Trump world, great for America.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images