During last night s State of the Union, Republican politicians attempted to put on a brave face and avoid showing any sort of approval for a single thing that President Obama said.
Some succeeded better than others.Speaker of the House Paul Ryan had the toughest job.
Sitting directly behind the president, the camera was directly on his face throughout most of the speech.
America cringed as Ryan desperately tried to keep his face emotionless and dead while Obama spoke.
For the most part, the effect was to make Ryan seem nearly comatose.
His dead eyes barely moved.
His slackjawed expression radiated defiant stupidity.
It was really hard to watch.The farce was blown apart, however, when Obama landed a particularly great zinger and Ryan couldn t help but break into a laugh.
Knowing that even flashing a brief smile could send his fanatical Republican colleagues into a blood-thirsty rage, Ryan did everything in his power to stop himself from laughing.
His face did things I didn t know a face could do.
On live television, Ryan s face went to war with itself.Here s Paul Ryan trying reeeeally hard not to laugh at one of Obama s jokes pic.twitter.com/gqekuYJ1BF GQ Magazine (@GQMagazine) January 13, 2016At one point, Ryan appears to physically put his tongue in cheek in order to keep it from betraying its Republican values.But if Republicans were trying and failing to put on a brave face, President Obama was clearly enjoying himself.
In his final State of the Union address he took time to go over the many successes his administration had been able to achieve.
He also used the opportunity to blast Republicans for the childish games they continue to play in order to score cheap political points at the expense of real governance.It s unclear whether Obama had known ahead of time that Republicans would be obsessively focusing on not smiling throughout his speech or if he just guessed based on past behavior, but Paul Ryan s idiotic attempts to avoid giving Obama any sort of credit perfectly accented the president s point.
Need an example of how delusional the GOP has gotten?
The Republican Party, which once claimed to be the party of ideas, couldn t even applaud when the sitting president of the United States said America is the most powerful nation on Earth.
Even agreeing with him on that point would be controversial for these partisan hacks.Thank you, Paul Ryan.
Your weird facial expressions can be used whenever America needs a reminder of where your party s priorities really are.
And we ll try not to laugh.Watch the full State of the Union address below (Ryan s failed attempt to stifle his laugh begins almost immediately):[youtube https://youtu.be/j4Qp7DxYWYY?t=57m21s]Feature image via C-SPAN