The Scots are geniuses when it comes to trolling Donald Trump.
And this newspaper proves it.Sadly, Donald Trump s inauguration is on Friday and it is likely going to be an event that offends millions of Americans across the country as Trump makes the day all about him and attacking his critics.Trump s team has been desperate to find musical talent willing to sell their souls to Satan to sing for Trump and have only managed to get a reality show singer and a has-been band to commit.Furthermore, a massive protest against Trump has also been planned to occur at the same time.
All in all, Trump s inauguration is going to be a shit show that ushers in a frightening period in American history that will impact this nation for generations as Republicans try to turn it into their own utopia where rich people and tyrants flourish while the rest of humanity suffers immeasurably.All the progress made over the last 150 years is about to go down the drain and one Scottish newspaper could only describe Trump s inauguration as the return of The Twilight Zone.
The Sunday Herald describes this newest Twilight Zone episode as one of the most ambitious, expensive and controversial productions in broadcast history featuring four years of answers to the question of what would have happened if the Nazis had won World War II.Calling the event nightmarish, the Sunday Herald goes on to say that Americans were unbelievably duped to make Donald Trump president.
This huge virtual reality project, which will unfold on TV, in the press, and on Twitter over the next four years sets out to build on an alternative present.
The story begins in a nightmarish version of 2017 in which huge sections of the US electorate have somehow been duped into voting to make Donald Trump president.
It sounds far-fetched, and it is, the description continues, but as it goes on it becomes more and more chillingly plausible.
Today s feature length opener concentrates on the gaudy inauguration of President Trump, and the stirrings of protest and despair surrounding the ceremony It s a flawed piece, but a disturbing glimpse of the horrors we could stumble into, if we re not careful.
Here s the full description via Twitter.The Sunday Herald TV guide on the inauguration of @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/R5zc6cLdK4 sunday herald (@newsundayherald) January 15, 2017Scotland is used to mocking Trump.
Protesters often show up to demonstrate at the golf resort he owns there and after Trump praised Scotland for voting for Brexit, many Scots mocked Trump on Twitter because Scotland actually voted for the United Kingdom to remain with the European Union.
@realDonaldTrump Scotland voted to REMAIN in the EU, you idiotic delusional psychopathic compulsive liar.
Richard Cosgrove (@rcosgrove) June 24, 2016@realDonaldTrump Jeez you re stupid you sentient enema.
Lachlan Buchanan (@lachlanbuchanan) June 24, 2016@realdonaldtrump Scotland voted Remain, you weapons-grade plum.
Sue Perkins (@sueperkins) June 24, 2016@sueperkins @Johngcole @realDonaldTrump I m sorry, but ludicrous tangerine ballsack is the UK Trump insult of the day.
Thomas Logan (@Penman1961) June 24, 2016And there s many more where came from.
One Twitter user even made a meme with many of them.
@ChrisCrary @arln1966 Drumpf is an insane loony toon pic.twitter.com/Y1EfWWEHut #illegitimateAF (@HillaryWasRight) June 25, 2016Featured Image: Twitter