It s safe to say that Donald Trump and Joe Scarborough are no longer buddies.After an embarrassing first solo press conference in which Trump repeatedly lied and called the media fake news while bragging about himself and claiming that his administration is a well-oiled machine, Joe Scarborough was gauging what his Republican lawmaker friends were thinking and they are starting to understand why millions of Americans are frightened.Mika Brzezinski reacted to Trump s words by saying And the public doesn t believe US anymore?
Scarborough lambasted the entire conference, telling the Morning Joe panel on Friday that it would have been a really funny hour or so of television if he weren t President of the United States.
It was one of the most chaotic, rambling press conferences anybody has ever seen, he continued.Indeed, Saturday Night Live has their work cut out for them if they plan to spoof Trump s conference this weekend.
Because they could literally just play the real conference and take the night off.Scarborough has also seen a lot of presidential press conferences, both as part of the media and a former lawmaker.
When he says this is the most chaotic, rambling press conference, he s not kidding.Scarborough then noted that Trump s hardcore supporters are going to support him no matter what.Panelist Mike Barnicle then chimed in that Trump has lost touch with reality.
Yesterday, the first 35 minutes of that press conference was watching a President of the United States who has lost a grip on reality.
It was as if he performed for himself because he needed to perform like that because he needed to convince himself he was president.
Indeed, Trump spent minutes talking about his Electoral College win as if it was the greatest win in history in an apparent effort to convince everyone of his legitimacy.
Except that it wasn t as yuuuge as Trump says because his win ranks as one of the smallest on record and he lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes.
Trump was even called out by NBC reporter Peter Alexander over the lie.
He says things that are verifiably false, Scarborough said before adding, Everybody I talked to on the hill, including a lot of Republican senators and congressmen, were scared to death by what they saw.
And more than one said, This just isn t going to last long because he just doesn t have control of reality.
The Morning Joe host then went on to say that many Republicans are absolutely freaked out because of Trump s embarrassing press conference.Here s the video via YouTube:It s clear that Donald Trump is unfit to be president and if Republicans have even a splinter of spine left they will do the right thing for America and impeach him before we become even more of a laughingstock to the world.Featured image via screenshot