Fox News and Republican front-runner Donald Trump have been in a strange power struggle ever since Trump decided to boycott the network s Thursday night GOP debate because the business mogul can t stand to be in the same room as Fox host and debate moderator Megyn Kelly.Clearly shaken up since Kelly got the best of him the first time she moderated the Republican debate, Trump has decided to make the GOP lineup look like even more of a circus by skipping the debate.
So far the network is standing by Kelly, stating that it wouldn t give into terrorizations toward any of our employees.
But it appears that Fox might not be genuine, as it is still secretly trying to get Trump back in by using two secret weapons Trump s wife and daughter.On Wednesday morning, Morning Joe host Joe Scarborough exposed Fox News CEO Roger Ailes for trying to get Ivanka and Melania Trump to change The Donald s mind about skipping the debate, but Trump refused to speak with him and insisted that he d only speak with network owner Rupert Murdoch.
Scarborough stated: Per our sources, Roger Ailes was calling Ivanka, he was trying to get in touch with Trump, he was calling Melania, people that he s got a good relationship with, they love Roger.
They have a great respect for him.
But at this point, Trump s only gonna talk to Rupert, and they re going to figure it out.
In response to Trump s childish boycott, there s been an outpouring of controversy in the media, even from Kelly s side.
Earlier this week, Kelly welcomed liberal filmmaker Michael Moore onto her show, where the documentarian mocked Trump and congratulated the Fox host for scaring Trump out of the debate a task that not even his Republican rivals could pull off.
Moore said, In all seriousness, let me say this, you ve done something that Jeb Bush, Chris Christie, Rubio, Cruz none of them have been able to do.
Which is to, essentially, frighten him.
Meanwhile, Trump has continued to bash Kelly on social media, signaling that his immature, mostly one-sided feud with her is far from over.
Solidifying Kelly s point during the first GOP debate that Trump had zero respect for women, Trump tweeted:TwitterFeatured image via Donald Trump Facebook