The 2016 Values Voter Summit is underway, and of course this yearly gathering of homophobes, misogynists, science deniers, and other assorted right-wing nuts is especially feverish since this is an election year.
At the top of the list of priorities for such people, is, of course, abortion.These people hate the idea of a woman being able to control her own body.
They think that a bunch of men in the government should have that authority, not a woman and her doctor.
However, one GOP Senator who spoke at this horrible event really had the most absurd argument ever to make the case that he is somehow more qualified than anyone else to legislate on abortion: because he ran a small business before he was a member of Congress.South Carolina Senator Tim Scott said, with the air of a father finding out that his teen daughter has come home pregnant, that an employee told him that she was pregnant.
So what did Sen. Scott do with this woman?
Why, what any manipulative Christian who wants to control the lives of others would do: took her to a crisis pregnancy center.Crisis pregnancy centers are nothing but right-wing Christian organizations that lie about a woman s choices when it comes to dealing with an unwanted pregnancy.
They manipulate young girls and women into believing that abortion is absolutely not an option, for any reason.
And, of course, these are the same people who are opposed to any sorts of help for the mothers and children once they are born.Senator Scott said of the conclusion of his decision to help this woman in this way, and how it makes him especially qualified to opine and legislate on this matter: As an elected official, when I have the responsibility and the opportunity, the privilege to protect life, I do so having been in the private sector, realizing the importance that we should place on life and the choice of life.
Senator Scott, you aren t protecting anything.
You re just trying to control the bodies of women around the nation who you don t even know.
Plus, you ll likely, like all GOPers, abandon these fetuses the second they are out of the womb.
You people and your sick obsession with controlling women need to be voted out.
As a South Carolinian, I plan to do just that.Watch Tim Scott s crazy unfold below:Featured image via Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg via Getty Images