The list of hypocrites and sore losers who are taking aim at Trump instead of the real enemy, Hillary Clinton, is getting longer every minute.
Mitt just can t seem to get over the fact that Trump is wildly more appealing to Americans from every walk of life than he was in 2012.
Mitt has learned some painful lessons in where he went wrong by watching Trump s successes.
Trump is a fighter.
From the outset, Trump made it clear that he would not allow the media to control the narrative.
Romney s inability to fight back cost him the election and he knows it.
While there is no question Romney is a wonderful family man, there is a question about why he has remained silent about Hillary and her criminal dealings while focusing all of his energy on destroying Trump.
His condemnation of Trump comes as no surprise.
Sadly, his condemnation of Hillary is nowhere to be found.
Sorry Mitt, but your embarrassing behavior is hardly the mark of a true team player Hitting on married women?
Condoning assault?
Such vile degradations demean our wives and daughters and corrupt America's face to the world.
Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) October 8, 2016Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL).
@realDonaldTrump should drop out.
@GOP should engage rules for emergency replacement.
Mark Kirk (@SenatorKirk) October 8, 2016In June 2015, many in the GOP were calling for Senator Kirk to step down after making a comment about fellow Senator Lindsey Graham on a hot mic that many considered to be very offensive: He s a bro with no ho, Kirk said of Graham.
That s what we d say on the South Side.
Really?
A bro with no ho?
That s what we d say on the South Side?He was referring, of course, to Republican presidential hopeful and confirmed bachelor Sen. Lindsey Graham, and the speculation that Graham would have a bevy of rotating first ladies.
CTOhio Governor John Kasich (R)Sore loser #1 Ohio Governor John Kasich had no intention of voting for Trump.
He and Jeb!
win prize for biggest sore losers who couldn t find their way out of their own pity parties to support Trump and the GOP when the RNC was held in his own state.
Kasich s statement is about as meaningful as his candidacy was to GOP voters.
This little ankleI will not vote for a nominee who has behaved in a manner that reflects so poorly on our country.
FULL STATEMENT: https://t.co/7zUFPXvXPA John Kasich (@JohnKasich) October 8, 2016 Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush (R)Now that we have the biggest loser out of the way, let s focus on the second biggest loser in the GOP the guy who believed (much like Hillary) that it was his turn for the nomination.
When things didn t work for the open-borders candidate, he grabbed his binky and went home to Barbara and George Sr where they agreed to work together as a family unit to openly disrespect Donald J. Trump who beat him fair and square in the primaries, in spite of the $150 Million he received from large donors against Trump s self-funded campaign.As the grandfather of two precious girls, I find that no apology can excuse away Donald Trump's reprehensible comments degrading women.
Jeb Bush (@JebBush) October 7, 2016Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL)The 3rd biggest loser Marco Rubio was supposed to win it all.
He was the establishments Golden boy this time around.
Things fell apart for him however when America started to question his policies on immigration.
At about the same time, Trump s nonexistent campaign was catching fire after he boldly proclaimed he would make defending our borders and getting illegal immigration under control in America.
No one in the out-of-touch GOP could have predicted America felt so strongly about the crisis we as a nation are facing after 8 years of Obama s reckless open-borders policies.
Rubio was stunned by his brutal defeat and he s never recovered.Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX)After taking a shellacking in the primaries, by a formidable opponent, Senator Cruz had the opportunity to make things right after he was invited to speak at the RNC.
He chose instead to use his time in front of millions of Republicans to promote himself instead of embracing the man who America chose to be the GOP candidate.
At the beginning of the primaries, I donated to Cruz s campaign more than once.
I am now sorry I ever supported him.Every wife, mother, daughter every person deserves to be treated with dignity and respect.
https://t.co/AVSEBastVc Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) October 8, 2016By the way, does anyone remember when Ted Cruz was being accused of having multiple affairs.
Does anyone remember when Cruz was put on the spot and asked directly if he had been having affairs on his wife, Carly Fiorina jumped in and answered the question for him.
Notice he skillfully deflected and never answered the question.
We re not suggesting he is guilty, but it is curious that he never answered the question.Senator John McCain (R-AZ)And then there s the guy who hasn t done a single thing for conservative in years.
While we appreciate and respect the great sacrifices Senator John McCain made for our nation, it should not offer him total immunity from being a complete a*shole and a sellout to conservatives.
In addition to my well known differences with Donald Trump on public policy issues, I have raised questions about his character after his comments on Prisoners of War, the Khan Gold Star family, Judge Curiel and earlier inappropriate comments about women.
Just this week, he made outrageous statements about the innocent men in the Central Park Five case.We ve had just about enough of his pandering to the Left.
His defense of Kzir Khan, Muslim father of a fallen-soldier with ties to Hillary Clinton and Valerie Jarrett was despicable.
He may have been hero on the battlefield, but he s been a coward in the Senate when it comes to standing up for conservative principles.
And oh yeah, there s that one time when John McCain called his wife Cindy a cunt :John McCain s temper is well documented.
He s called opponents and colleagues shitheads, assholes and in at least one case a fucking jerk.
Three reporters from Arizona, on the condition of anonymity, also let me in on another incident involving McCain s intemperateness.
In his 1992 Senate bid, McCain was joined on the campaign trail by his wife, Cindy, as well as campaign aide Doug Cole and consultant Wes Gullett.
At one point, Cindy playfully twirled McCain s hair and said, You re getting a little thin up there.
McCain s face reddened, and he responded, At least I don t plaster on the makeup like a trollop, you cunt.
McCain s excuse was that it had been a long day.
If elected president of the United States, McCain would have many long days.
HPBut we won t talk about that because he s a war hero.
Only Trump is responsible for the words he used 10 years ago.There were several other of the usual suspects we all expect to see trashing Trump, the ones who usually vote on the other side of the aisle, or those who haven t passed a single piece of meaningful legislation who are just trying to pander to their blue states, but the best denouncement of Trump came from of all people, former husband of Maria Shriver of the Kennedy clan, actor and Governor of California, Arnold Schwarznegger and oh yeah the guy who fathered a son with the MARRIED family housekeeper and then hid his existence from his wife and children.As proud as I am to label myself a Republican, there is one label that I hold above all else American.
My full statement: pic.twitter.com/biRvY8S3aZ Arnold (@Schwarzenegger) October 8, 2016Hey Arnold, there s a big difference between talking about having an affair with a married woman and actually HAVING an affair with a married woman oh yeah and then there s that whole illegitimate child thing