If there were a contest to describe who the most grotesque, misogynistic and outright awful human beings on the planet are, Donald Trump and those who he surrounds himself with would likely top the list.
Not only is Trump wildly sexist and racist, but he comes to the defense of those who abuse others in his name.
He has said it at his campaign rallies for those who go after protesters, and now he s come out in full defense of his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, who was caught on video brutally grabbing a reporter.Lewandowski, while at a campaign event on March 8th at Trump National Golf Club, grabbed then Breitbart News Network reporter Michelle Fields.
She filed charges, and subsequently Lewandowski has now turned himself into the police.You can see here, via security footage, that Lewandowski, without a doubt, grabbed Fields:Newly released security footage of the Corey Lewandowski incident: https://t.co/O5tTflBb5C Frank Luntz (@FrankLuntz) March 29, 2016Yet, Trump is still jumping to the defense of his abusive campaign manager.
Shortly after Lewandowski turned himself in, Trump tweeted out:Wow, Corey Lewandowski, my campaign manager and a very decent man, was just charged with assaulting a reporter.
Look at tapes-nothing there!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016And then he blames the victim like the good misogynist he is:Why aren't people looking at this reporters earliest statement as to what happened, that is before she found out the episode was on tape?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016THEN he tries to make up an excuse as to why she was being grabbed, turning it back on her:Victory press conference was over.
Why is she allowed to grab me and shout questions?
Can I press charges?
pic.twitter.com/qbW2RjkINX Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016Why is this reporter touching me as I leave news conference?
What is in her hand??
pic.twitter.com/HQB8dl0fhn Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2016His tweets are literally going from bad to worse.The right thing to do would be to acknowledge the abuse and swiftly fire Lewandowski, but instead he s choosing to victim-shame and back up his brownshirt flunky.It s beyond belief that people still support Donald Trump.
Either they are racist and/or misogynistic themselves, hate themselves, or are simply too stupid and likely cannot even tie their own shoe laces.
We need to make sure Trump stays as far away from the Oval Office as possible.
No matter who, we need to vote blue.
Don t let a vote of pure conscience and ego let this country slip into the hands of a man who will most definitely have his hands on nuclear codes.
Wake up, people.
This race is bigger than ourselves and even our nation.
It affects the whole world.Featured Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images Twitter