Our beautiful First Lady Michelle Obama used her final commencement address to take aim at GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump, and it was absolutely glorious.
Taking to the stage at the City College of New York before the graduates, Mrs. Obama pulled no punches.
There was no need to mention Trump by name, as there could be no doubt as to whom she was talking about.
She began: Here in America, we don t give into our fears.
We don t build up walls to keep people out, because we know that our greatness has always depended on contributions from people who were born elsewhere but sought out this country and made it their home.
After that, Mrs. Obama continued to take aim at him: Some folks out there today seem to have a very different perspective.
They seem to view our diversity as a threat to be contained rather than as a resource to be tapped.
They tell us to be afraid of those who are different, to be suspicious of those with whom we disagree.They act as if name-calling is an acceptable substitute for thoughtful debate, as if anger and intolerance should be our default state, rather than the optimism and openness that have always been the engine of our progress.I have seen what happens when ideas like these take hold.
I have seen how leaders who rule by intimidation, leaders who demonize and dehumanize entire groups of people, often do so because they have nothing else to offer.
That is not who we are.
It seems that no one, even our First Lady, can resist slamming Trump.
Michelle Obama has largely been quiet on the 2016 race.
She has endorsed no one, and she has slammed no one until now.
That really says something about how out of control Trump is, that she felt compelled to do so.
This speech also makes a huge impact with its timing, because everyone is still talking about Thursday s brilliantly fiery speech from Hillary Clinton, in which the Democratic frontrunner laid into Trump like no one has ever done before.Of course, Mrs. Obama could not, as a sitting First Lady rather than a political candidate, use a commencement speech to go after Trump by name in the brutal fashion that Secretary Clinton did.
However, that doesn t matter.
Her message was loud, clear, and true: Trump s ideas are dangerous, and they have no place in America at all, much less in the White House.Watch a few clips of this incredible speech below, via The Hill: Featured image via video screen capture