Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet on Twitter) posted an interesting video that should cause alarm-bells to go off, no matter where, in the world you live.
If you live in Sweden and have been watching your Swedish traditions and culture discarded and replaced with a radical Muslim culture, you probably won t be shocked by this video.
If you live in a nation like Germany or the UK that s been importing unvetted refugees from Muslim majority nations for several years, you will probably not be surprised by this video.
But for many Americans, who are foolish enough to think that inviting millions of Muslim refugees (who have no interest in assimilating) into your neighborhoods and communities, this video should serve as a warning to you of what a bleeding-heart nation looks like post-idiocy:The weather forecast in Sweden vs the weather forecast in Iraq.
pic.twitter.com/t870JhVRSU Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) July 11, 2017So, why is Sweden starting to look like a majority Muslim nation?
In 1975, the Swedish parliament unanimously decided to change the former homogeneous Sweden into a multicultural country.
Forty years later the dramatic consequences of this experiment emerge: violent crime has increased by 300%.If one looks at the number of rapes, however, the increase is even worse.
In 1975, 421 rapes were reported to the police; in 2014, it was 6,620.
That is an increase of 1,472%.Sweden is now number two on the global list of rape countries.
According to a survey from 2010, Sweden, with 53.2 rapes per 100,000 inhabitants, is surpassed only by tiny Lesotho in Southern Africa, with 91.6 rapes per 100,000 inhabitants.Data Also Suggests the Uptick Is Due to Immigrants More controversial is what explains these increases.
Some contend the increase in rape is simply a statistical phenomenon due to the application of an expanded definition of rape in 2005 and again in 2013.
Others suggest Swedish women have simply grown bolder about reporting things that happened previously but went unreported.
Maybe, but in the same period, as Carlqvist and Hedegaard point out, the number of gang rapes [in Sweden] increased spectacularly.
In rapes of this kind culprits and victims are most often young and in almost every case, the perpetrators are of immigrant background, mostly from Muslim countries.
Finally, it s also worth pointing out that the rise of rape isn t peculiar to Sweden either.
The same problem is plaguing Germany, Austria (more information here), Britain, and other EU nations.
The Federalist