Like father, like son, Donald Trump Jr. twitter account is getting him into a lot of trouble.The morning after Republican Karen Handel won the Georgia special election to fill in a vacant seat in the U.S. House of Representatives, Don Jr. was giddy and eager to brag about the win.
Sidestepping the fact that Handel had to spend $18 million (two-and-a-half times her opponent!)
to win a nailbitter in a district Republicans won by over 20 points just 7 months ago, Don Jr. chose to focus on the historic nature of the win: Karen is a woman.Karen Handel becomes 1st Woman Rep GA has sent to Congress.
Still waiting for the glass ceiling stories, or do conservatives not get them?
Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 21, 2017Unfortunately for Don Jr., his tweet shows the dangers of getting all your information from right-wing media.
It s completely wrong.Handel is not the first woman representative Georgia has sent to Congress.
Democrats have been electing women in Georgia for years.
And Democrats elected the state s first congresswoman Cynthia McKinney in 2005.
The glass ceiling was shattered in Georgia long ago and by Democrats.Unintentionally, Don Jr gave America an opportunity to look at just how backwards the Republican Party is.
As The Hill notes, the GOP is pathetically behind on gender equality for their elected officials.Handel will become just the 22nd GOP female lawmaker in the 435-member House, not including nonvoting delegates.
Overall, there are 104 women in the House.In the Senate, there are 21 women, including five Republicans.Georgia has sent a handful of Democratic women to Congress, most recently Rep. Cynthia McKinney, who served one term from 2005 to 2007.Nine other states appear to have never sent a Republican woman to Congress: Arkansas, Delaware, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Dakota, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont and Wisconsin.Republicans have yet to send a single woman to Congress in nine states.
That s just sad.
And waiting until 2017 to finally start to catch up shouldn t allow Republicans to get any glass ceiling points.
This year they are particularly guilty.
Republicans chose to stand by a man who had repeatedly sexually harassed women around him, bragged about it on tape, and later used sexist attacks against both his critics in the media and his opponent.
They elected him president and continue to support him.Don Jr., having been humiliated for passing along the false information, decided to lie about it rather than just admit his mistake and move on.
In a bit of shameless dishonesty his own father might blush at, he claimed the Rep in his tweet universally understood to be short for representative really meant Republican.
How do we know it s a lie?
Because his original tweet makes absolutely no sense if we replace Representative with Republican.
As the above tweet illustrates, McKinney broke the glass ceiling for all women in Georgia.
A decade ago.
Republicans don t get to shatter the already-shattered glass ceiling 12 years too late, much less celebrate it as a huge step forward in women s rights.Nice try, Don.
Glad to see you re becoming your father s son!Featured image via David Becker/Getty Images