The Trump campaign is definitely a racist one, because the guy at the helm of the whole thing, Donald Trump, is a flaming racist.
After all, as we all know, Donald Trump s first entrance into mainstream American politics was his very public leading of a charge to prove that President Obama was not born in this country.
That issue keeps coming up now, during this campaign, because Trump s surrogates have been all over the television airwaves insisting that he is no longer a birther.
However, when Trump himself was asked by the Washington Post whether or not he actually believes that the President is an American, he refused to answer, just giving the standard answer that he no longer discusses the issue.Well, seeing that things were about to get ugly surrounding this, Trump s campaign issued a gross, racist statement full of self-congratulations and outright lies, as if Trump s questioning of the president s birth was in any way a service to the country or in any way appropriate.
The statement begins by refusing to admit any wrong doing on the part of Trump and his fellow birthers, and instead suggesting that Trump s racist show me your papers campaign was somehow the right thing to do: In 2011, Mr. Trump was finally able to bring this ugly incident to its conclusion by successfully compelling President Obama to release his birth certificate.
Mr. Trump did a great service to the President and the country by bringing closure to the issue that Hillary Clinton and her team first raised.
Then, Trump spokesman Jason Miller, the despicable goon behind this travesty of a statement, closes the whole thing off by acting like the public questioning of the origins of the first black American president is some kind of golf course deal Trump closed: Inarguably, Donald J. Trump is a closer.
Having successfully obtained President Obama s birth certificate when others could not, Mr. Trump believes that President Obama was born in the United States.
No, you guys aren t getting off this easy, Miller.
The only acceptable response here is to have your candidate say, FROM HIS OWN MOUTH, that he knows that he was wrong, that he is sorry, and that President Obama is an American and a legitimate president.
Nothing less will do.
Further, you will have to retract this deplorable statement, and admit that everything you have said here is awful, that it was NOT Hillary Clinton s campaign who started or led the birther movement, and that it was Donald Trump himself who gave it legs.I won t hold my breath on any of that, though.
After all, Hillary was right: You folks really are a basket of deplorables and you just got even deplorable with this statement.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images