Whoa.
The day after he fired now-former FBI Director James Comey, Donald Trump did perhaps the dumbest thing a person under investigation for collusion with Russia could possibly do: he gave highly classified information directly to representatives of the Russian government.
How classified?
It s stuff we haven t even shown our allies.The Washington Post reports that when Trump met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, Trump went off script and began describing details about an Islamic State terrorist threat related to the use of laptop computers on aircraft.
I get great intel.
I have people brief me on great intel every day, Trump bragged to the Russians according to a White House official:Trump went on to discuss aspects of the threat that the United States only learned through the espionage capabilities of a key partner.
He did not reveal the specific intelligence gathering method, but described how the Islamic State was pursuing elements of a specific plot and how much harm such an attack could cause under varying circumstances.
Most alarmingly, officials said, Trump revealed the city in the Islamic State s territory where the U.S. intelligence partner detected the threat.The Washington Post is withholding most plot details, including the name of the city, at the urging of officials who warned that revealing them would jeopardize important intelligence capabilities.
Everyone knows this stream is very sensitive and the idea of sharing it at this level of granularity with the Russians is troubling, a former senior U.S. counter-terrorism official who worked with Team Trump told the Post.
Russia, armed with the information Trump handed them, can now use it to identify the U.S. ally or gain more information about intelligence operations.
This is code-word information, the official said.
Trump revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than we have shared with our own allies.
One official tells Buzzfeed that it s far worse than what has already been reported.
Russia could identify our sources or techniques, the senior U.S. official explained.
I don t think that it would be that hard [for Russian spy services] to figure this out.
If that partner learned we d given this to Russia without their knowledge or asking first that is a blow to that relationship, the official said, adding that Trump also informed the Kremlin about defensive measures the United States has taken.
I m sure Kislyak was able to fire off a good cable back to the Kremlin with all the details.
The meeting, which occurred just after The Donald fired James Comey for requesting additional resources for the Russia investigation, was off-limits to U.S. press, but Trump allowed Russian media in to take photographs.
The White House readout does not discuss Trump s decision to give away our nation s secrets to the country that financed and executed a hacking a propaganda operation intended to install him in the Oval Office.Featured image via screengrab