Trump is panicking to the point where he s not sleeping and he even tried to hold five rallies across half the country on Sunday (and failed miserably).
He s panicking so much that he filed what s possibly the most frivolous election lawsuit ever against Clark County for violating Nevada election law by allowing a polling place in a market in Vegas to stay open until the line was gone.Nevada law allows anyone who was in line at the time the polls close to still vote, and when lines are exceptionally long, that means polling places stay open late.
Trump tried to claim that the Cardenas market, which was serving primarily Latino voters, was allowing people to get in line after the 8 p.m. close.He also wanted records from that particular polling place, information about specific poll workers, and for ballots to be kept away from machines that were supposedly problematic.And he got shot down.
Royally.
District Judge Gloria Sturman not only rejected all his requests, but she voiced concern that revealing that information could put poll workers in danger: Have you watched Twitter?
Do you watch any cable news shows?
People can get information and harass them.
She also said: Why would I order [election officials] to make available to you information about people who work at polls when its not already a public requirement to do so.
So that those people can be harassed for doing their civic duty?I m just puzzled how you think you will use this evidence anyway.
And she said she couldn t force the election judges to do what they were already doing by law, which is keeping records and preserving ballots.Trump was playing innocent about this, saying at the time he filed that complaint: We have to keep the system honest.
Oh please.
He wouldn t know what honest was if it smacked him upside the head.
This was probably one of the more dishonest things he s done since voting started, and it was likely with a goal of invalidating the votes of Latinos who were probably voting for Hillary Clinton.
Whether that could actually happen or not, that was probably the goal.On Trump s warped planet, doing something about those votes could have given him an edge (in reality, probably not, but we re not talking reality here).Tonight s impending drubbing must really be terrifying him to pull something like this.Featured image by Scott Eisen via Getty Images