Eric Trump, the son of the GOP presidential nominee, told George Stephanopoulos on ABC This Week that his father has carried the weight of this country for the last 18 months.
Donald is so brave to do that for America and for freedom.
Except, he certainly hasn t carried the weight of this country for minorities, the LGBTQ community, veterans, the handicapped and women.
In fact, everything Donald has done during the last 18 months has been for Donald.Conspiracy theorist Donald Trump took to his Twitter account today to say that, Major story that the Dems are making up phony polls in order to suppress the the Trump .
We are going to WIN!
Major story that the Dems are making up phony polls in order to suppress the the Trump .
We are going to WIN!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 24, 2016Stephanopoulos brought up Donald s sinking poll numbers to Eric.
The polling average shows about a 7 to 8 ., the ABC host said.Eric said, Look at the L.A. Times poll.
We re up by 2 points.
The IBD Poll, we re up by 2 points.
The Rasmussen, we re up by a few points.
So, you know, the polls are all over the place.
And, in fact, there was a poll, and it was a Reuters Poll that came out this morning, he continued.
There was two states, Minnesota and Michigan that were within the margin of error.
I mean these states haven t been run won by a Republican in 30 years, so.
By the way, Ramussen predicted a landslide victory for Mitt Romney in 2012.
Let s ask President Romney how well that worked out.
So you don t think you re fighting from behind right now?
Stephanopoulos asked.Eric said, Maybe listen, maybe, but I can tell you, when I m on the ground, the amount of love out there is is incredible.
Eric continued to say that Democrats have told him they are voting for his father and that he has union support.
Most polls do show most Democrats going for Hillary Clinton right now, Stephanopoulos shot back.
Do you think you might be living in in in a bubble of your own support?
Eric said he didn t think so and went on to say that his father had 10,000 people in Cleveland at the rally.
To me, as a son, he wins no matter what.
I mean I m so incredibly proud, Eric said.
I mean he s carried the weight of this country for the last 18 months.
I happen to think we re going to win.
I mean when I m in these states and I just came back from North Carolina and I just came back from Ohio.
Eric went on to mention how many yard signs he s spotted that support his father.
You don t see a single Hillary sign.
I mean the enthusiasm differential between the two candidates is just it it s not even it s not even close, he said.
And I think you re going to see that on election day.
Watch:As one Twitter user pointed out to Eric, Americans have been carrying Donald for 18 years by paying taxes.
But according to Eric, just like Jesus carried a cross, Donald has carried the weight of this country on his shoulders for 18 months.Image via screen capture.