If you were unaware, there was a much-anticipated hearing on the collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence operatives during the election scheduled on Tuesday key word was.
Because The Donald totally has nothing to hide at all, the GOP nixed those plans.
The public hearing was to feature former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, who was fired by Trump for doing her job, and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper both of whom are figures Republicans do not want to allow near a microphone.Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff announced on Friday that Trump transition team member and chairman of the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Rep. Devin Nunes canceled the hearing.BREAKING: Chairman just cancelled open Intelligence Committee hearing with Clapper, Brennan and Yates in attempt to choke off public info.
Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) March 24, 2017Schiff also criticized Nunes for running a dead of night excursion for documents related to surveillance of Trump associates while leaving the rest of the committee in the dark.
We strongly object to the cancellation of this hearing, Schiff says.
We would still urge the majority to reconsider.
The witnesses have made it clear to us they are still available and we would urge that that hearing be allowed to go forward.
Recently, Nunes gave us a clear indicator that he is compromised when he ran directly to The Donald with alleged information showing that information regarding Trump and his team was perfectly legally incidentally collected while intelligence agencies were monitoring some pretty nasty people overseas.
He did not share this information with his fellow Congressmen and women.There is no question now.
There is no defense.
Republicans not just Trump and his immediate team are not working for the American people.
At this point, we have no choice but to accept them for what they are: the enemy of the American people.Featured image via Getty Images (Chip Somodevilla)