For perhaps the first time since Donald Trump hit the political scene, he didn t make a bad situation worse by saying something self-serving and inappropriate in the response to the shooting of Republican Rep. Steve Scalise (Louisiana) during a practice of the GOP congressional baseball team.Trump said: We may have our differences, but we do well in times like these to remember that everyone who serves in our nation s capital is here because, above all, they love our country, Trump said.
We can all agree that we are blessed to be Americans, that our children deserve to grow up in a nation of safety and peace and that we are strongest when we are unified and when we work together for the common good.
Source: Chicago TribunePresident Obama, who still knows many of the members of Congress, also responded with the class and deference we have come to expect.
Obama reached out to Jeff Flake (R-Arizona), who was on the field during the shooting, and despite being on the opposite side of the political aisle, was a friend of the former President.Flake was among the Republicans gathered on an Alexandria, Va., baseball field when a shooter opened fire, wounding House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.)
and several others.
Obama maintained a good working relationship with Flake, who flew out to Arizona with the former president in 2011 after the shooting of then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.).
This is particularly raw for those of us in Arizona, Flake told reporters of Tuesday s shooting, adding that Obama asked him to let Scalise know the former president is thinking about him.
He went through this a couple of times, Flake added of Obama.Source: PoliticoOf course, many will question why Obama didn t call all the Congresspeople who were on the field that day and the answer is quite simple.
He doesn t want to make it about himself.
He simply wanted to send well wishes to a friend.
That s class.
Of course, it could also be that he is weary from addressing all the mass shootings during his administration.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images