More than two months after Bundy Militia idiot Robert LaVoy Finicum was shot and killed during a standoff with federal and state police, authorities say officials are still receiving death threats.According to reports, the police have documented at least 80 threats against various officials okay including Governor Kate Brown.
One Bundy fan club member left a message at the governor s office saying: You killed an unarmed rancher, so now one of you must die.
The Seattle Times reports:The governor s office reported Friday that threats related to the standoff and Finicum shooting continue to come in against Brown.One email demanded the release of refuge occupiers jailed on federal charges.
It also demanded indictments for the officers involved in Finicum s death.
If that doesn t happen, the writer said, I am going to begin returning fire.
Last month, the FBI released video of the shooting that left Finicum dead, and you can clearly see that he was reaching for his weapon when police opened fire.
In spite of video evidence that exonerated the officers and proved that the imbecile known as Tarp Man was a violent thug, right-wingers insist the shooting was not justified.
And to make things right, they want to murder police officers and the governor.
That s insane.In addition to the continued death threats, authorities discovered that people hell-bent on retaliation are aggressively hunting the names of the officers who were involved in the shooting.
This further highlights how important it is to keep those names from the public according to Malheur County District Attorney Dan Norris.Although the governor has said the officers names will eventually be released, it s definitely better that they are kept quiet right now.
The people who are making the threats are missing some screws.
It doesn t matter how much evidence is put forth that proves their outrage is completely unfounded, they ve made up their minds.
Their actions are proof of what constant anti-government rhetoric does to people.
And there is one party to blame for that: Republicans.For years, Tea Party Republicans have been spewing hate to their voters and telling them the government wants to hurt them.
They do this knowing that the sovereign citizen movement that the Bundy Militia belonged to is one of the biggest threats to law enforcement.
So, the next time you hear conservatives saying, Blue lives matter!
Show them this and tell them .Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images