Organized protesters took to the streets outside of the brand new Little Caesars Arena in Detroit to protest Kid Rock s concert tonight, calling him a racist for using a confederate flag in his southern concerts years ago.
The truth is that Kid Rock, who is a single father of a black son, and the recipient of the Detroit NAACP s great expectations award in acknowledgment of his work in helping the black community in Detroit, doesn t have a racist bone in his body.
Liberal protesters are also pointing to Rock s public remarks expressing his disgust for Colin Kaepernick for disrespecting our flag by kneeling during our national anthem.
We all know the protests are being organized because the left fears Rock is serious about challenging the 2-term liberal US Senator Debbie ( rubber stamp ) Stabenow:Kid Rock has done more to help the city of Detroit than any elected official in recent history, yet people like Stephen Henderson, the race-obsessed editorial editor of the Detroit Free Press just can t help but criticize the rocker with a heart of gold and a passion for helping others who have either fallen on hard times or have bravely served our nation, by suggesting that Rock is a racist.
This is a musician who got rich off crass cultural appropriation of black music, who used to wrap his brand in the Confederate flag a symbol inextricably linked to racism, no matter what its defenders say and who has repeatedly issued profane denouncements of the very idea of African Americans pushing back against American inequality.
Just last week, he trashed Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who s jobless right now because he dared challenge the nation s racism with a silent, kneeling protest during the pre-football game singing of the national anthem.
Having Kid Rock open this arena is erecting a sturdy middle finger to Detroiters nothing less.
And the Ilitches, who ve done so much for this city and also taken so much from it, should be the last to embrace that kind of signaling.Sadly, it s people like Stephen Henderson who are so steeped in hate for anyone who doesn t buy into his nonsensical rhetoric, that will keep the hateful and divisive course Barack Obama set for our nation alive and well Here are just a few of many examples of how Kid Rock has given back to so many.
These are videos you ll never see in the mainstream media.
#1.
30-year old Dan Bawita is one of Kid Rock s biggest fans.
As he sat at a table in a local restaurant in Michigan celebrating his birthday with friends and family, he got the surprise of his life when a very unexpected guest showed up to help him celebrate.
Not only did Robert Ritchie, aka Kid Rock show up to surprise Dan, he spent over 2 hours hanging out with him and sharing a few pretty special gifts with his new friend.#2.
In 2011, U.S. Army Sgt.
Davin Dumar lost his left leg and suffered several other injuries during a deployment to Afghanistan.
After 70 surgeries, Dan and his wife Dana wanted to move back to Michigan and settle down where they grew up.
Kid Rock worked a local Michigan builder, Pulte Homes, and Operation Finally Home to build a home for the wounded vet and his wife.
Watch Kid Rock, as he helps to surprise the couple with their new home:#3.
Kid Rock didn t just visit the troops in Baghdad, he visited our troops while they were in a combat zone.
A true American badass #4.
In 2008, Kid Rock visited the troops in Al Asad, Iraq, for a Christmas concert.
He started the concert by giving a speech thanking the troops for helping to protect our freedom of speech.
Watch him sing All Summer Long for the troops.
***Language warning***#5.
In 2012, when the Detroit Symphony Orchestra was in danger of folding due to lack of funds, Kid Rock stepped up to the plate and performed a full-blown concert with the symphony to help raise money for the amazing group of musicians, who 5 years later, are still playing.
***As a bonus (and because I also attended Romeo High School) we decided to include this video of Robert Ritchie surprising the high school he attended with a $5K gift to be used to help boost their arts program.