Donald Trump is attempting to actually, you know, run for president now.
It s about time, right?
Instead of holding violent rallies in which he spews racist remark after racist remark, he is now actually attempting to give speeches with some substance that take on his incredibly formidable opposition.
Well, despite his best efforts, he is failing miserably at what political insiders are calling a deliberate pivot.
Nicolle Wallace, who was the White House Communications Director under President George.
W. Bush had harsh words for Trump s rebranding attempts.
In short, it s not working.
On MSNBC Live, Wallace blasted Trump, saying he s into the right-wing conspiracy theories again when it comes to attacking Hillary Clinton.
Here is the transcript of her conversation with MSNBC reporter Brian Williams, via Media Matters:BRIAN WILLIAMS: And so, again, to take your model, that is to watch for 24 hours like a message control group, you think that fairly NICOLLE WALLCE: Like an experiment.WILLIAMS: Yeah.
And you think that that can be held up against as a test of the discipline of the new Manafort era?WALLACE: I just think that is the test, right?
So we will say that he read from his teleprompter and our colleague, Rachel, laughed at me last time I gave him credit for doing so.
But I really I think the test is to look at 24 whole hours.
I will pledge, in service of this network, to watch the next 24 hours and report back, because what happened the last time, when he came out and gave a foreign policy speech that was riddled with its own problems, was that he stepped on his own message by trotting out conspiracy theories on Fox & Friends in the morning.
So, this was a speech that had the definite imprint of Paul Manafort and the family, which has taken firm control of the Trump campaign.
Trump, I m told, realized by Sunday night that things weren t just bad, they were, quote, awful.
And so, he is trying to make a pivot.
And when you have such a small, skeletal campaign, you can pivot in two days because there s not very many people to turn around.
So he has made that pivot in the last hour.
But we do have to watch the next 24 hours, the next, you know, however many interviews he does and see if he veers wildly off message like he s done in the past.
The thing is, much of what Trump said during his anti-Hillary speech on Wednesday is nothing more than lies from anti-Clinton books, such as the widely debunked Clinton Cash by Peter Schweizer, and Crisis of Character by Gary Byrne.
Mr. Trump, you re going to have to do better than that, considering that all Hillary Clinton has to do is use your own literal words to show just how dangerous for America you are.Hell, even many members of your own party, veteran political operatives like Nicolle Wallace, can t stand you.
That should tell you something, and none of it good.Watch the exchange below, again via Media Matters:Featured image via Gerardo Mora/Getty Images