During another one of his seemingly made-up-as-he-goes stump speeches, Donald Trump attacked President Obama s environmental agenda while zeroing in on his own hair.
Trump blamed Obama for banning Trump s brand of hairspray.You can t use hairspray, because hairspray is going to affect the ozone.
I m trying to figure out, let s see, I m in my room in New York City, and I wanna put a little spray so that I can [gestures like his combing his hair].
Right?
But I hear they don t want me to use hairspray.
They want me to use the pump, because the other one which I really like better than going like bing bing bing.
Then it comes out in big globs, like oh my God, I gotta take a shower again, my hair s all screwed up.
Right?
I wanna use hairspray.
They say don t use hairspray, it s bad for the ozone.
So I m sitting in this concealed apartment this concealed unit, you know, I really do live in a very nice apartment, right?
But it s sealed!
It s beautiful.
I don t think anything gets out.
And I m not supposed to be using hairspray.Trump went on to criticize Obama for traveling around the world in Air Force One, leaving a huge carbon footprint not realizing, of course, that Obama as well as Al Gore, by the way, buys carbon offsets to compensate for the pollution created by their various modes of transportation.
And even if he didn t, the president requires Air Force One to do his job.
Likewise, the Defense Department has noted on numerous occasions the national security threat posed by the climate crisis.
Would Trump blame the military for using fossil fuels in their vehicles?
I certainly hope not.But back to Trump s hair.
Aerosol hairspray using chlorofluorocarbons were discontinued in the 1970s, long before Obama was inaugurated.
All new non-CFC aerosol hairspray is readily available in stores, but it doesn t contain any ozone-depleting chemicals any more.
Meanwhile, the hole in the ozone is closing, and is expected to disappear by the end of the 21st Century.
Trump doesn t know this or if he does, he s lying to his people, assuming they re too dumb to know about something that ended in the 1970s.
Featured image via video screen grab.