With absolutely NOTHING to back it up, Sarah Jessica Parker tells reporters that she fears for her life, and for the life of her husband NY liberal actor, Matthew Broderick if Trump is elected.
I know Hollywood and NY liberal actors live an insulated life, safe from the security or financial concerns everyday Americans face, but seriously?
Does she not have a TV?
Does she not have access to Youtube or the internet?How is it possible that she s missed the vicious attacks launched at Trump supporters by Black Lives Matter terrorists, anarchists and leftists of every size, shape and color against innocent Trump supporters?Just the other day, we reported about a young man who attended a Black Lives Matter rally in CA and was beaten by a mob of around 300 people for simply wearing a Trump hat.
Did she somehow miss the rioting and attacks on senior citizens, or the woman who was trapped by mobs of anti-Trump attackers who proceeded to throw eggs and various items at her head and body?Donald Trump might have made two guest appearances in HBO s iconic comedy Sex and the City, but the show s star, Sarah Jessica Parker, has speculated his political ascendancy is putting her life in danger.Throwback to when Trump was on Sex and the City.
pic.twitter.com/d72FFLvx8w Billo Rani (@prabhjotkp) September 27, 2016Parker, a high-profile Hollywood liberal who has hosted fundraisers for President Obama, says the political climate generated by Donald Trump has left her fearing she, actor husband Matthew Broderick, and their friends will end up getting hit or worse.SJP, whose new HBO show Divorce begins this Sunday, told Time Out New York: The thing I keep saying is that even if please, God Trump is not elected, I m afraid there is now a climate that has said in silence that it is okay to hurt anybody you not-so-secretly disagree with.
Whether it s how they look or the lifestyle you think they re leading or the color of their skin, or they ve come here to, you know, take advantage of this country.
I m terrified.
She adds of the unnamed Trump-inspired posse of haters: I said to [Matthew Broderick], I feel like someone is just going to hit us.
They re just going to reach out and smack us or beat the shit of us or, I don t know, shoot us, shoot my friends.
I m not being dramatic when I think of this.
I m shocked.
SJP is so shocked that she winds up issuing a rallying cry for Trump: I will fight to the very end for you to go and vote for Mr. Trump.
Go do it.
But you don t have to hurt me to do it.
And you don t have to hate me to do it.
I don t hate you; I wish I understood you.
Via: Heat StreetAre these Hollywood and NY liberals so self-absorbed that they don t see what is REALLY happening in America who is REALLY being attacked for their political views?
News flash SJ Parker it s not the Left who s being attacked.
How about you just go back to your little safe-space, and we ll call you when it s all over.
If America votes for freedom, Trump fans will rejoice.
We won t burn any cop cars, we won t loot any stores, we ll likely just say a prayer of thanks and count our blessings that the reign of tyranny is over in America.
If America votes for the most crooked President in our history, we will likely feel crushed, but we won t come looking for Sarah Jessica Parker and her whiny husband.
We won t be looking for innocent people to harm or buildings to burn.
You see, that s not how conservatives do it.
So you can rest easy Sarah, knowing that whatever the result, there isn t a single conservative in America who will give you any more thought than we do today.
To tell you the truth, I can t remember the last time I even heard your name.
Rest easy