Ted Cruz got his ass handed to him on Fox News Sunday for calling President Obama weak because he hasn t carpet bombed the Middle East out of existence.It was not a good time to be Ted Cruz during his appearance on Fox with host Chris Wallace.
Throughout the interview, the Republican presidential wannabe desperately tried to appear tough by talking about how quick he would be to wage total war against Iran and ISIS.
I will apologize to no one with how vigorous I will be winning the war on terror, Cruz replied when Wallace pointed out that former U.S. Army War College commandant Robert Scales dinged Cruz for his call to carpet bomb as just one of those phrases that people with no military experience throw around.
The Texas senator then attempted to describe what carpet bombing is by using the Gulf War as an example, whining about how the military has shrunk since 1991.
And you want to know what carpet bombing means?
Yesterday was the 20th anniversary of Desert Storm.
In 1991, we had roughly 8,000 planes.
Today, we have 4,000.
Our Air Force has dropped in half.
In 1991, we had 591 ships in our Navy.
Today, we have 272.
It s dropped nearly in half.
In 1991, we had over a third more soldiers in our Army.
And we were launching 1,100 air attacks a day.
We were carpet bombing them.
And after 37 days of 1,100 air attacks a day, our troops went in in a day and a half and mopped up the remnants of the Iraqi Army because that s the effect of carpet bombing.
Cruz made his initial carpet bombing remark in December, saying we should see if sand can glow in the dark.
Of course, carpet bombing is when the military drops hundreds or thousands of bombs over a large swath of land, hitting every thing in its path.
It s indiscriminate destruction that kills civilians as well as military targets.
In short, innocent people get slaughtered.
It has also been a war crime since 1977.Chris Wallace, of course, knows quite a bit more about the Gulf War than Cruz does.
Wallace covered the war from Tel Aviv as a reporter for ABC while Cruz was busy not studying nearly hard enough at Princeton.
We did precision striking, Wallace corrected Cruz.
In addition if I may the Iraqi Army was all massed by itself in the Kuwaiti desert.
We re now talking about ISIS soldiers who are not massed, they are embedded in Mosul, they re embedded in Raqqa with civilians.
Cruz then went on a rant about how we should be bombing every building and oil field we can find regardless of whether or not ISIS has a connection to them or not and said that he would do exactly that if he becomes president.Here s the video via YouTube.In another part of the interview, Cruz claimed that the only reason Iran detained American sailors earlier this month is because of the weakness of President Obama.
In reality, Iran detained them and had every right to do so because the naval vessels went off course and entered Iranian waters.
It wasn t intentional, but it happened.
And Iran released the sailors 14 hours later after the servicemen apologized for the mishap and it was confirmed that a navigational error sent them off course.
Also, Iran is helping us fight ISIS, which makes Cruz s next statement all the more harmful.Chris Wallace even informed Cruz of that fact, but nevertheless, Cruz declared that as president he would have punished Iran with full force and fury and that any nation that captured our military officers, captures our soldiers, should face serious repercussions.
Here s the video via YouTube.Ted Cruz would be a disastrous president if he were to win in November.
He would start endless wars over the smallest disagreements and would stoop so low as to commit war crimes and kill innocent people to prove how tough he is.
This is not the kind of president America needs.
We already had a president who did these kind of things.
President Bush sent thousands of American troops to their deaths fighting two wars and used torture as a method of interrogation despite it being a violation of the Geneva Convention.The fact that President Obama has killed many high-ranking ISIS leaders with precision drone and air strikes proves that we don t need to carpet bomb to achieve the same goals.
The fact that President Obama secured a nuclear deal with Iran and the release of American prisoners they held as well as the quick release of American sailors also proves how diplomacy is effective at achieving our goals without firing a single shot or spilling blood.The only thing Ted Cruz demonstrated today is that he is dangerous and irresponsible and shouldn t be allowed anywhere near American foreign policy nor should he be given control of the military.Featured Image: Wikimedia