On Sunday night, actress Meryl Streep called out president-elect Donald Trump s behavior without even mentioning his name.
That was too much for Trump supporters to handle and Kellyanne Conway, the president-elect s mouthpiece, was not happy about it.
In response to Ms. Streep s impassioned speech at the Golden Globe awards, Conway said that instead, the actress should have called for unity behind the president-elect.
That s sort of the opposite of what Trump is doing right now on Twitter while bashing Meryl Streep because of his fragile ego.
We have to now form a government, and I m concerned that somebody with a platform like Meryl Streep is also, I think, inciting people s worst instincts, Conway said.
When she won t get up there and say, I don t like it, but let s try to support him and see where we can find some common ground with him, which [Trump] has actually done from moment one.
Watch:.
@KellyannePolls: I m concerned that somebody with a platform like Meryl Streep s is inciting people s worst instincts pic.twitter.com/QjITaedKnV FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) January 9, 2017Conway then brought up the widely condemned and appalling attack on a terrified white man by four African-Americans who shouted anti-Trump rhetoric.
The four attackers are in custody and will face hate crime charges.The president-elect has verbally bashed Mexicans, Muslims, women, black people, journalists, and now he s attacking an actress on Twitter.
Still yet, Conway said that Streep should have used her platform to give a shout out to the mentally challenged young man who was attacked.Watch:.
@KellyannePolls: I didn t hear #MerylStreep use her platform to give a shoutout to the mentally challenged boy who was tortured live on FB.
pic.twitter.com/hswzMWOPuF Fox News (@FoxNews) January 9, 2017Conway added that instead of Streep expressing her views, the actress should have stood up and said, I didn t like the election results but he s our president and we re going to support him.
Conway will see America s support for the incoming man-baby demagogue on January 21st, the day that protests break out in various cities.
What Trump is doing should never be normalized.Image via screen capture.