Vogue s latest cover has really set off Breitbart editor John Carney, who apparently is not the brightest guy around:If attacking us has you confused based on the non-political photo, you re not the only one.
Luckily, it s explained: he thinks an image of the Statue of Liberty is an attack on conservatives, based on the citation of Lady Liberty and the plaque she bears by liberals and progressives as evidence that we are a nation that welcomes immigrants.
And if that wasn t enough, he went on a twitter rant crying about why he thinks he s right:Seriously, I think we could do really well with @BreitbartNews Fashion.
Lots of women who would like their fashion without leftism.
John Carney (@carney) August 10, 2017The reaction by leftists to my criticism of Vogue's cover is all the proof you need about its political content.
John Carney (@carney) August 10, 2017If you want the Statue of Liberty to be a non-partisan symbol of America, don't make her central to your case against immigration reform.
John Carney (@carney) August 10, 2017Really?
So you think they just coincidentally decided to put one of the most beautiful women in America next to Statue of Liberty?
John Carney (@carney) August 10, 2017 Just so you know, John, leftists aren t opposed to immigration reform, just your un-American version of it.
And it wasn t leftists that made Lady Liberty a central figure of immigration it was this:Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame, With conquering limbs astride from land to land; Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand A mighty woman with a torch, whose flame Is the imprisoned lightning, and her name Mother of Exiles.
From her beacon-hand Glows world-wide welcome; her mild eyes command The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame.
Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!
cries she With silent lips.
Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!
Feedback for this little bit of right-wing lunacy was instantaneous and harsh:Dumbest motherfucker alive https://t.co/g1aEQDOpOM Luke O'Neil (@lukeoneil47) August 10, 2017 also, how pathetic are you to be triggered and need a safe space from lady liberty?
Oliver Willis (@owillis) August 10, 2017Uh https://t.co/dhXerDk0Pm pic.twitter.com/EPLTRXC5q4 Matt Viser (@mviser) August 10, 2017 Telling that the Statue of Liberty triggers someone.
Nate (@NateT_) August 10, 2017Posing in front of Lady Liberty is now an attack on the right?
Interesting.
Joe Nocera (@NoceraBV) August 10, 2017Truly baffled.
Isn t the Statue of Liberty the iconic American image of womanhood?
What else would be?
If you see politics, that s on you.
Ellen Clair Lamb (@ECLamb) August 10, 2017That Vogue cover was shot at least 3 months ago that s how far out they go and why wouldn t you want the Statue of Liberty everywhere?
Ellen Clair Lamb (@ECLamb) August 10, 2017Hilarious.
Triggered by the Statue of Liberty.
Makes sense tho.
Robert Stribley (@stribs) August 10, 2017Isn t it amazing how easily they expose themselves?
If the Statue of Liberty is anti-right and leftist bias, I m completely ok with that.
politically elite (@politeratiesque) August 10, 2017What if, when you re attacked by the Statue of Liberty, you re the bad guy?
Brook G-D ?
(@TheBG_D) August 10, 2017Then he tried again: It s contextual.
Putting that on the cover right after Miller v. Acosta fight is taking sides.
Not sure why people want to isn t otherwise.
John Carney (@carney) August 10, 2017Surely you know that magazine deadlines are such that the cover was done LONG before the Miller-Acosta exchange.
Joe Nocera (@NoceraBV) August 10, 2017 Surely you know Stop right there.He doesn t. Jake Upham (@jakeupham) August 10, 2017Apparently, these days all it takes is the Statue of Liberty to get the authoritarians on the right to throw a tantrum.Read more:Featured image via screencapture