While Donald Trump is urging gun owners to assassinate Hillary Clinton before the election, Kentucky GOP Governor Matt Bevin is suggesting a bloody rebellion if she is elected.In a move that should make Kentucky voters hang their heads in shame, Bevin appeared before a crowd at the Values Voter Summit on Saturday and instantly made conservative Christians even more paranoid and bloodthirsty than they already were by claiming that Hillary Clinton is a tyrant who will destroy America if she is allowed to be in charge for very long.
We don t have multiple options, he said.
We re going one way or we re going the other way, politically, spiritually, morally, economically, from a liberty standpoint.
We re going one way or we re going the other way.
Bevin painted liberals as un-American for preventing conservative Christians from declaring America a Christian nation and instituting the Bible as the law of the land in place of the Constitution.
They try to silence us.
They try to get us to shut our mouths.
They try to embarrass us.
Don t be embarrassed.
We were not redeemed to have a spirit of timidity.
Be bold.
There s enough Neville Chamberlains in the world.
Be a Winston Churchill There are quite enough sheep already.
Be a shepherd.
After declaring that America is worth fighting for, ideologically, Bevin suggested spilling blood if that s what it takes to keep Hillary Clinton and the Democrats out of power.
Somebody asked me yesterday, I did an interview and they said, Do you think it s possible, if Hillary Clinton were to win the election, do you think it s possible that we ll be able to survive?
That we would ever be able to recover as a nation?
And while there are people who have stood on this stage and said we would not, I would beg to differ.
But I will tell you this: I do think it would be possible, but at what price?
At what price?
The roots of the tree of liberty are watered by what?
The blood, of who?
The tyrants to be sure, but who else?
The patriots.
Whose blood will be shed?
It may be that of those in this room.
It might be that of our children and grandchildren.
I have nine children.
It breaks my heart to think that it might be their blood that is needed to redeem something, to reclaim something, that we through our apathy and our indifference have given away.
Here s the video via YouTube:Earlier this year at one of his rallies, Donald Trump suggested that Second Amendment people could do something to prevent Hillary Clinton from picking Supreme Court nominees.
If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks.
Although the Second Amendment people maybe there is, I don t know.
And now a very extreme conservative Republican governor is taking that idea and running with it, proving that Hillary was right to call Trump supporters deplorable.Featured Image: Screenshot