It s no secret that House Speaker Paul Ryan only grudgingly accepted Donald Trump as the GOP nominee.
After all, Trump has made Ryan s life a living hell for the last year and a half, as he has repeatedly been forced to defend, explain away, and distance himself from Trump s inexcusable behavior in any number of directions.
This time, though, it seems that Ryan has had enough.Of course, we re all aware of the extraordinarily lewd tape of Trump boasting of sexual assault on an Access Hollywood bus with the then-host of the show, Billy Bush.
As if that weren t enough to make Paul Ryan s head explode over the weekend, there s the fact that Trump kicked off the second presidential debate not only with that tape as the scandalous backdrop, but also by digging up women who have accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct of one kind or another in the 1990 s, or accused Hillary Clinton of threatening them into silence.
After that gutter-level nonsense from his nominee, Ryan held a conference call with elected with Republicans with one instruction and one instruction only: to save their own asses.
Don t let Trump drag them down and make them lose their seats.
Further, Ryan himself will not be campaigning with Trump, and he will not be defending anymore of Trump s antics.Because Trump is a thin-skinned, bullying, sniveling little boy in a dirty old man s body, he could not resist going after Ryan on Twitter.
Trump tweeted: Paul Ryan should spend more time on balancing the budget, jobs and illegal immigration and not spend his time fighting Republican nominee.
Here is the tweet:Paul Ryan should spend more time on balancing the budget, jobs and illegal immigration and not waste his time on fighting Republican nominee Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 10, 2016When asked about Trump s childish tweeting, one of Ryan s spokeswomen completely avoided Trump, saying: The speaker is going to spend the next month focused entirely on protecting our congressional majorities in order to advance our Better Way agenda.
Ryan, of course, is in a tough spot of his own making.
He, Mitch McConnell, and all the rest of the GOPers who lined up behind Trump had to know that something of this nature was coming.
Now, the whole party has the stench of the racist, misogynist, all-around bigoted pig that is Donald Trump.Time to cash in your life insurance policy and make some funeral arrangements, GOP.
By the time November 8 rolls around, there will be nothing left of the Republican Party, and this is all your own faults.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images