Even Fox News understands that the Republican healthcare bill will leave millions of Americans in financial ruins.That s why Chris Wallace put the screws to House Speaker Paul Ryan on Sunday.So far, the GOP healthcare bill has been universally panned and Republicans who still support the bill are struggling to defend it.The bill will not only strip health insurance from tens of millions of Americans, it will make the cost of healthcare skyrocket, especially among senior citizens whose costs are projected to be ten times what they pay now under the Affordable Care Act.During an interview on Fox News Sunday, Wallace pointed out to Ryan that the GOP healthcare bill would force senior citizens with an annual income of $26,500 to spend $14,600 a year on health insurance instead of the $1,700 they currently spend thanks to subsidies provided by the Affordable Care Act.Wallace then slammed Ryan for saying that the GOP plan is what freedom looks like, even though seniors would be forced to spend over half of their income on healthcare.
That s definitely NOT freedom.
You said that part of that is that this is what freedom looks like, Wallace began.
But is the major decrease in the number of people according to the CBO who will have health insurance, is it freedom or is it that some people will no longer be able to afford health insurance under your plan?
This isn t freedom, Wallace continued.
This isn t people voluntarily deciding not to have health insurance.
It s that your plan makes it unaffordable for people.
Ryan responded by going on an incoherent rant about how the Affordable Acre Act is not going to last, even though Republican sabotage is the reason why the Affordable Care Act is having problems in the first place.
And then he started talking about how the GOP bill will make insurance plans less expensive even though Wallace just got done telling him the exact opposite.
We re not going to make people buy something that s so expensive that they can t afford, that the market is not going to offer, Ryan said.
And so where I dispute that comparison is it suggests that we re going to have the same kinds of plans being offered in 10 years that Obamacare would otherwise offer.
The person in their 50s or 60s does have additional health care costs than, say, a person in their 20s and 30s You re right in saying and we agree we believe we should have even more assistance and that s one of the things we re looking at for that person in their 50s and 60s.
We re going to let people buy what they want to buy, Ryan continued.
We re going to have more plans being offered, more choice and competition.
He also claimed that gutting healthcare regulations would cause prices to drop.Here s the video via YouTube:Ryan s argument in defense of Trumpcare is that the CBO didn t examine everything.
The problem is that if they had the GOP plan would have looked even worse.Getting rid of regulations won t make healthcare more affordable.
It just gives insurance companies more freedom to screw over their customers.As the GOP healthcare bill currently stands, senior citizens will end up paying ten times as much for healthcare than they do now.The Affordable Care Act created competition among health insurance companies and slowed down the rising cost of premiums while covering tens of millions of Americans who previously could not afford coverage.The GOP bill repeals all of that and Ryan s defense was not only confusing, it was full of empty promises in a desperate effort to convince the American people that Republicans care about them.Featured image via screenshot