Talk of impeaching our first African-American President is like oxygen to Republicans if they don t mention it incessantly, their tiny little brains shrivel up and they die.
This is a scientific fact that I completely made up but has a strong basis in reality.
Our frenemies on the right have come up with some real doozies when explaining their repeated attempts to get the black man out of the WHITE house.In 2010, Michigan Rep. Tim Walberg wanted to impeach Barack Obama in an effort to get his birth certificate.
In 2012, former Minnesota state Rep. Allen Quist said that the President should be impeached because he isn t deporting brown people quickly enough.
That same year, Texas congressional candidate Wes Riddle decided the black man should be impeached for satisfying the conditions of a treaty ratified under George H.W.
Bush.
A year prior, Tea Party Texas Rep. Michael Burgess suggested impeachment for no better reason than to block Obama s agenda.
The month before that, GOP Rep. Tim Scott wanted Obama impeached because he wouldn t allow the country to default on its debts.
Weeks after that, Rep. Steve King agreed with this ridiculous notion.If we were to translate all of these moronic reasons to impeach the President, they all boil down to one thing: He s black.
But as monumentally stupid as those are, Oklahoma s state legislature has managed to come up with some new and original that dwarfs all previous reasons Republicans wanted to impeach the President in the scale of their stupidity.
Reuters reports that Oklahoma Republicans have filed a measure calling for Obama s impeachment because of Lawmakers say they want to get President Obama out of office because he overstepped his constitution authority by protecting transgender students from being harassed by their ideological counterparts across the nation.
In fact, they feel so strongly on the issue that are already taking up a measure that would allow students to claim a religious right to have separate but equal (where have we heard that phrase before?)
bathrooms and changing facilities to keep them away from scary transgender people:Lawmakers in the socially conservative state are also expected to take up a measure as early as Friday that would allow students to claim a religious right to have separate but equal bathrooms and changing facilities to segregate them from transgender students.The bill introduced on Thursday night could force schools into costly construction, which would be difficult for them to complete after lawmakers significantly cut education funding to plug a $1.3 billion state budget shortfall.The impeachment resolution also introduced on Thursday night calls on the Oklahoma members of the U.S. House of Representatives to file articles of impeachment against Obama, the U.S. attorney general, the U.S. secretary of education and others over the letter.Oklahoma state Rep. John Bennett called President Obama s tyrannical decree that transgender people deserve equal rights Biblically wrong a phrase that should never enter politics and a violation of state sovereignty.
In a time when our state is facing an unprecedented economic crisis, our lawmakers should be focused on righting the ship rather than stigmatizing transgender youth, Troy Stevenson, executive director of LGBT advocacy group Freedom Oklahoma, said of this ridiculous resolution.This decision comes on the heels of Oklahoma Republicans decision to make it a felony to perform abortions.
Not only would doctors face time behind bars, but they would be prohibited from obtaining or renewing a license to practice medicine in this state if they allow a woman to choose whether or not to carry a fetus to term.
The bill passed the House 59-9 and the Senate 32-12, so it seems likely that something equally asinine like impeaching Obama over something stupid would be just as popular.Featured image via Getty Images/Pool