After the CIA came forward that they have intelligence showing Russia s direct involvement in the election to help Donald Trump win, many people are asking for further information, especially before the Electoral College votes on December 19.Now, the White House is using language that they most certainly believe Donald Trump s victory was definitely the reason Russia got involved in the election.White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest said: You didn t need a security clearance to figure out who benefited from malicious Russian cyberactivity.
The President-elect didn t call it into question, he called on Russia to hack his opponent.
He called on Russia to hack Secretary Clinton.
So he certainly had a pretty good sense of whose side this cyberactivity was coming down on.
The last several week so the election were focused on a discussion of emails that had been hacked and leaked by the Russians.
These were emails from the (Democratic National Committee) and John Podesta, not from the (Republican National Committee) and Stephen Bannon.
It was the President-elect who over the course of the campaign indicated that he thought that President Putin was a strong leader.
The President-elect s team, his campaign, did not make any effort to obscure this.
The President-elect has said one thing on Twitter.
The 17 intelligence agencies have come forward with unanimous assessment about Russia s malicious cyberactivity.
I ll let you and the American people judge who s in a better position to defend their argument.
Earnest then suggested that Congress needs to move forward and investigate Russian ties to the election.
We simply cannot allow a foreign power to decide President of the United States.
That is absolutely terrifying.Watch White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest issue the White House s response here:The White House on Russian hacking: Trump had a pretty good sense of whose side this activity was coming down on https://t.co/uxa8ksiRGs CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) December 12, 2016Featured image via video screen capture