Christian Conservative extremist and blowhard Ann Coulter took to Twitter after Donald Trump s surprise defeat in Iowa on Monday night, with a lengthy and hysterical rant that suggest literally nobody is more upset about this loss than her.Poor Ann Coulter.
She s been having a fabulous time riding on Trump s coat tails these last few months, and then out of nowhere, defeat.
Let s face it, her last brain cell died of loneliness some considerable time ago and she simply has neither the real nor emotional intelligence to deal with such a shock to the system.
Plus, she has access to Twitter.
Let the lunacy commence.She sowed a little lie ahead of time, just in case Trump did get a drubbing.
Apparently, Fox News are trying to keep Trump out of the White House.
You know, those liberal hippies at Fox!GOPs just show up & vote.
Fox trying to suppress Trump vote by telling 1st time caucusers that GOPs bicker all nite.
https://t.co/9UTwAGYpdf Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 2, 2016Then she spent some considerable time attacking Marco Rubio for coming such a close third to Trump.
With Trump on 24% and Rubio on 23%, there was just 1% in it.
Coulter refers to the son of Cuban immigrants as the sweaty little Mario .Fox is slyly denigrating Cruz by ignoring him.
IT APPEARS HE'S ABOUT TO WIN.
But it's all hands on deck for the sweaty little Mario.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 2, 2016But although Trump lost, he won to the only people who matter to Ann Coulter.
First, the evangelical Christians.
Coulter wants a Christian Conservative champion in the White House, hence her denigration of Rubio and her reluctant acceptance of Ted Cruz as Plan B.CNN's John King just explained that TRUMP is winning the most heavily Evangelical areas of the state!
GO CHRISTIANS!
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 2, 2016Not just Christians that Coulter prefers though is it?
No, Coulter seems to think the ethnicity of voters makes the vote more powerful too.Trump is the leading GOP vote-getter tonight, among natural-born-American candidates.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 2, 2016Who are these natural-born-American candidates?
The likes of Trump and Huckabee of course.
To a thoroughbred racist like Coulter, Rubio, Carson and Cruz might well make themselves Evangelical enough, but they will never make themselves white enough.
They just aren t good old-fashioned European immigrants to the United States, like the other children of immigrants in the race.So after a quick outburst of vitriol against Ted Cruz for winning and being a bit too Cuban and Canadian Has Cruz stopped speaking yet?
I went out to get a sandwich 40 minutes in.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 2, 2016 she turned on the caucus itself.Yes, I can barely remember Reagan, Bush, McCain & Romney all lost Iowa caucus, then became nominee (i.e.
1st!).
https://t.co/o292AWWymj Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) February 2, 2016Finally this morning she was reduced simply to tweeting seemingly random numbers.
To which some Twitter users had some brilliant responses.
@AnnCoulter The number of babies you've eaten?
Donald J. Trump (@Re_lDonaldTrump) February 2, 2016 @AnnCoulter pic.twitter.com/Hj2DSD6Rk5 neilsaavy7099 (@714_319) February 2, 2016@AnnCoulter Is that the number of times you've pegged Hannity or the caliber of handgun you're going to use on yourself when Sanders wins?
Duke St. Rollins (@DukeStRollinsv2) February 2, 2016Sadly, not much sympathy around for Ann Coulter or her patron Donald trump this morning.
But despite Coulter s bleating, choosing a Republican in this race is like choosing death by hanging, gas chamber or firing squad.
You might have a personal preference, but every one of them is going to be fatal.
The GOP s domination by extremist candidates is a death sentence, whichever candidate carries it out.
Featured Image via Gage Skidmore (Flickr Creative Commons)/Gage Skidmore (Flickr Creative Commons)