As per usual, the halftime show at the Superbowl was the main attraction.
This year, it featured superstar singer Beyonce, along with the wildly popular band, Coldplay.
It also featured lots of .rainbows.
Of course, this particular detail upset the perpetually gay sex-obsessed religious bigots.
They took to twitter to decry the fact that one of the manliest sports ever would dare to include anything rainbow themed in its entertainment for any reason whatsoever.
Here are just a few choice tweets from the Twitter storm that ensued after the halftime show:Forgot the halftime show was changed to a gay rights movement Keegs (@Bryan_Keegs) February 8, 2016@IngrahamAngle the homosexual promoting halftime show is over at my house.
S.Gatewood (@uspatriot72) February 8, 2016Super bowl 50 halftime show is emitting homosexual tendencies@CloydRivers what has America come to?
Football is being destroyed.
Tyler Solomon (@TylerSolomon30) February 8, 2016I believe the message of that halftime show was "quickly, become a homosexual" Real Trent Flubbs (@RealTrentFlubbs) February 8, 2016Just because the super bowl is held near San Francisco doesn't mean we need to make it a homosexual congregation Tyler Solomon (@TylerSolomon30) February 8, 2016Since when is the super bowl halftime show a gay pride festival #HillaryForPrison (@Kovacina_Matt65) February 8, 2016All the Halftime performance did was try to promote homosexuality.
#JetIsBad (@Jetisbad) February 8, 2016Basically a homo pride celebration during halftime .. And that's one reason our country has gone down CamVP(15-1)(2-0) (@Alpha_Dog_LM24) February 8, 2016Of course, what these morons missed is the fact that the rainbows had zilch to do with gay pride and everything to do with Coldplay s promotion of its upcoming album:A Head Full Of Dreams, the new album, out now.iTunes: https://t.co/9SLDz80L67Google Play: https://t.co/usisZNkHf7 pic.twitter.com/LUyFJRFPkD Coldplay (@coldplay) February 6, 2016All this ridiculous complaining does is show how obsessed these pathetic people are with the activities of those who are in no way harming them.
Nobody is going to force churches to perform gay weddings, or make them attend one.
Nothing about their lives has changed with legalized marriage equality.
The sky has not fallen.
Perhaps the most accurate and ironic assessment of this whole ridiculous situation comes from Hemant Mehta, the Friendly Atheist, who reminded everyone that these complaints come from the same people who are watching a game in which dozens of men jump on top of each other for hours before dancing and patting each other on the butt.
Featured image from video screen capture via Spin