Kellyanne Conway is definitely going to whine about this.CNN may have reversed their ban on Kellyanne Conway, but if Mika Brzezinski has her way, she won t ever be able to spread her lies on Morning Joe again.In the latest backlash against Donald Trump, the Morning Joe host declared that Kellyanne Conway will not be booked on the MSNBC program ever again because or her constant lies in defense of her tyrannical boss.
I know for a fact she tries to book herself on this show, Brzezinski said on the air.
I won t do it.
I don t believe in fake news or information that is not true.
That is every time I ve ever seen her on television something is askew, off, or incorrect.
Indeed, Kellyanne Conway lies so much on every media outlet she appears on it s a wonder her nose hasn t grown like Pinocchio s.Ever since she joined Trump s campaign she has been whining about how the media covers Trump and has insisted that her lies are the truth.
Fact-checkers have had to work overtime to make sure the American people know that she is lying.Joe Scarborough opined that Conway lies because she isn t as close with Trump as shes says she is.
She s just saying things just to get in front of the TV to prove her relevance because behind the scenes she s not in these meetings and any reporter can ask anybody in that White House and they will say the same thing.
She s not in these meetings.
So why does the president allow her to keep going out and spreading false information?
Apparently, Trump is hoping that if Kellyanne Conway keeping repeating the lies that Americans will accept them as the truth.But Mika Brzezinski refuses to take part in that effort, so she made it very clear that Conway will not be invited on to Morning Joe as long as she is hosting.
Kellyanne Conway does not need to text our show, as long as I m on it, Brzezinski said.
It s not happening here.
Here s the video via YouTube.Conway has been an embarrassment since day one.
Her most recent embarrassments include peddling Ivanka Trump s product line in violation of federal ethics rules and making up a terrorist attack in Bowling Green, Kentucky in defense of Trump s travel ban.
Beyond that, she fumbles so much that we ve lost count.The media should ban Conway from appearing on all shows across the board.
All she does is spread propaganda and false information, and if Scarborough is right that she really doesn t know what s going on inside the White House then she shouldn t be considered a source worthy of interviewing.Featured image via screenshot