We ve all seen the horrific photos of children who are victims of the Syrian Civil War.
Perhaps the most infamous is the one of the little boy sitting, covered in blood and dirt, barefoot, in the back of an ambulance.
He is clearly in shock.
It shows us just what that kind of war does to a society, to ordinary people, and children just like us, just like the kids in our own lives.via Mirror.co.UKWell, there is one person who is completely unmoved by these images: Donald Trump Jr.
The Donald s mini me has long shown his lack of humanity.
After all, he made a disgusting Holocaust reference when trying to tear down the media s coverage of Hillary Clinton, saying if the GOP did what the Democrats are doing, they d be warming up the gas chamber.
Well, now, he s gone into the gutter again, this time regarding Syrian refugees.
Trump Jr sent out the following tweet, comparing refugees to a bowl of Skittles:This image says it all.
Let's end the politically correct agenda that doesn't put America first.
#trump2016 pic.twitter.com/9fHwog7ssN Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 19, 2016And as if this weren t bad enough, comparing human beings to a bowl of candy, this is actually a white supremacist meme.The Skittles are a reference to white supremacist meme.
Changed from M&Ms to Skittles because of George Zimmerman.
https://t.co/86FsWdft5O Laura Seay (@texasinafrica) September 20, 2016George Zimmerman is, of course, the wannabe cop who got away with murdering Trayvon Martin, a black teen who was walking home from the store in Florida with only a can of iced tea and a package of skittles.
So, in other words, once again, Trump Jr. is openly courting white supremacists on his father s behalf.Skittles spokeswoman Denise Young said that her company, Wrigley, which is the parent company that produces skittles, didn t believe Trump Jr s image was appropriate.
She went on to say: Skittles are candy.
Refugees are people.
We don t feel it s an appropriate analogy.
We will respectfully refrain from further commentary as anything we say could be misinterpreted as marketing.
The Trump campaign is so repugnant that even candy makers have to speak out.
This meme is racist, disgusting, and is just another sign of what a morally bankrupt family the Trumps are.
Do everything you can to keep them out of the White House, folks.
VOTE BLUE.Featured image via video screen capture