Fairfax, VA Public Schools are not unique in their desire to force a deviant sexual agenda on our children.
Why is the left so hell-bent on destroying the innocence of our youth?Public schools in Fairfax County, Virginia, are preparing to include gender identity in its curriculum, despite objections from parents.The district s Family Life Education (FLE) lessons will include teachings on heterosexual, homosexual, and bisexual, and transgender identity.
The school board voted in May to add gender identity to the list.The move has angered many parents over what they see as forcing them to expose their children to issues that are not even part of state requirements.
Starting in kindergarten, students will be taught about same-sex or gay marriage and the parents will not be able to opt out, Andrea Lafferty, president of the Traditional Values Coalition, told CBN News.Fairfax County Public Schools wrote a letter to parents in response to misperceptions about the new curriculum.
Most sections in the FLECAC committee s report have been a part of the curriculum in past years, with the difference being that many of the instructional objectives now meet the Virginia Dept.
of Education s (VDOE) general Health Standards of Learning, the board wrote.
As-such (they) no longer have an opt-out option.
These topics include conflict resolution skills, respecting individual differences such as disabilities, ethnicities and cultures and mental health areas, they wrote.Lafferty said students in 8th grade will be discussing President Bill Clinton s activity, along with oral and anal.
Fourth graders will receive instruction about incest, she said.
One of the big issues is in Virginia parents can opt their children out of certain parts of the Family Life Education.
And so now what they re doing is trying to move parts of it from FLE to Health, which means parents cannot opt their children out, she said.Some parents are outraged that the proposed lessons are not even required by law but they are still being forced upon them.
It s not a part of the state law, it s not a part of the state school board instruction, but they ve decided to add it against the will of many of the parents.
We are very concerned that they are doing it here in Fairfax County and perhaps other places without the parents knowledge or consent, Lafferty said.
It s just bizarre.
They want to force this on the kids in Fairfax County when in fact it s not a part of SOLs or the required education, Lafferty added.Via: CBN News