Sen. Harry Reid is calling for FBI Director James Comey to be investigated after Friday revealed bombshell after bombshell regarding Russia s interference in the U.S. election.
Reid put the head of the FBI on blast Saturday morning following the release of a secret CIA assessment that concluded Russia had meddled in the presidential election with the intent of helping to get Donald Trump into the Oval Office.
I think [Comey] should be investigated by the Senate, he should be investigated by other agencies of the government, including the security agencies, Reid told MSNBC.
You look at the accounts we have just in the press the last few days its stunning, stunning, the conclusions reached by the press.
Thank goodness we ve got them still around this is not fake news, okay?
he added.The CIA report found that Russia had hacked the DNC, as well as the RNC.
However, we all know whose information made it onto Wikileaks and whose didn t. This tidbit of information lends credence to the theory of U.S. intelligence agencies who believe that Russia interfered for one reason: to get Trump elected.Reid is convinced that Comey knew Russia was screwing around with the presidential election, but chose to withhold this information from the American public until after Election Day.
I am so disappointed in Comey.
He has let the country down for partisan purposes, Reid added, calling for the FBI director to step down.Reid also took the opportunity to praise Sen. Lindsey Graham for his efforts to lead an investigation into Russia s election meddling.
I believe Lindsey Graham is a voice of concern, Reid said.Graham, along with Sen. John McCain, is heading up efforts to launch a wide-ranging probe into Russia s hacking and interference.
President Obama has also ordered a full review of Russian interference in November s election, which is to be completed before he leaves office in January.Watch more on Reid s call for an investigation into Comey, here;.
@SenatorReid says FBI Director James Comey should be investigated in wake of CIA revelations.
RETWEET 2AGREE #AMJoy https://t.co/Xu9THTOOfz AM Joy w/Joy Reid (@amjoyshow) December 10, 2016Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images