A right-wing radio host has called it quits after he got owned by famous scientist Neil deGrasse Tyson.Last week, Neal Larson learned the hard way that there are humiliating consequences for spreading satire as a fact when the famous scientist fact-checked him into oblivion.
I ve listened to Neil deGrasse Tyson before, Larson wrote in the Twin Falls Times-News criticizing the astrophysicist for performing some interesting mathematics in relation to the Olympic medal count.But Larson went beyond that by accusing Tyson of mocking a little girl for wanting to live on Jupiter.
And what I observe is a smart guy who consistently enjoys asserting his intellectual supremacy over others more than he actually likes educating.
In one of his worse moments, Tyson mocked a 12-year-old girl who suggested she d like to live on Jupiter.
He ridiculed her in the midst of a crowd, then later, several times, on Twitter.
That told me everything I needed to know about Neil deGrasse Tyson.For that moment he was just a horse s astrophysicist.
Naturally, Tyson did a little research and then responded to Larson with some bad news.
The incident with a 9yr old girl never happened.
It looks to be a hoax.
No such tweets ever existed on November 29th, 2015, or on any other day.
So you abrogated your journalistic integrity by not verifying what you read in somebody else s article, before using it as a foundational pillar in yours.
Tyson s response went viral and humiliated the hell out of Larson to the point where he is now throwing in the towel to end his stint as a columnist.In what is now his final column, Larson admitted that he was checkmated by Tyson in one move.
The instant it was picked up nationally, I was checkmated, Larson wrote before playing the victim.
I had no recourse, no comparable media platform at my disposal.
It was as terrible and as helpless as you can imagine.
Even more disappointing, a few people that I honestly thought were friends, shared online my unfortunate story with glee.
Seriously?
How about practicing what you conservatives constantly preach to the rest of us and take some damn personal responsibility for once?
After all, you re the one who printed satire as if it were fact, Mr. Larson.
A simple look at the original source of the story would have been enough to figure out that it was fake.
And you fell for it because you lack journalistic skills and integrity, which makes me wonder why the hell the Twin Falls Times-News let you get anywhere near their newspaper.But despite apologizing to Tyson for the blunder and the slander, Larson continued playing the victim throughout his last foray in print news.
For those in the national spotlight, this is probably old hat, but I wasn t equipped to handle the influx, logistically or emotionally, Larson wrote.
If anyone had sent a kind word or more gentle and constructive criticism, I apologize because I probably missed it in the onslaught of hate.
Again, you slandered a man in an attempt to tarnish his reputation, Mr. Larson.
You re lucky he didn t sue your ass on the spot because he damn sure has a bulletproof case against you, and yet you think you re the victim here?Neil deGrasse Tyson is an internationally recognized celebrity scientist.
Did you honestly think your accusation would not become national news, especially once your target debunked your claim with facts?Neal Larson brought this humiliation on himself and he has no one to blame but himself for negative feedback he received.Now if only Tyson would monitor Larson s radio show and debunk the bullshit he spews on the airwaves.
Perhaps Larson would be embarrassed enough to quit that job and go into hiding permanently.Featured image via Addicting Info