Who knew?
Probably everyone in the news biz knew but said nothing.
Charlie Rose has been groping women for years.
It has come to this if a woman accuses you, you re gone, gone, gone.
Apparently, several women came forward and accused the smooth talking veteran journalist of sexual misconduct.
Charlie Rose immediately issued a statement apologizing but saying all claims aren t accurate.
Charlie Rose was a groper?
Wow!CHARLIE ROSE IS TOAST In response to a Washington Post report detailing multiple accusations of inappropriate conduct, PBS and Bloomberg announced on Monday afternoon that both companies will stop distributing Charlie Rose s eponymous show, Charlie Rose.
The nightly show is produced by Rose s company, Charlie Rose Inc.Separately, CBS announced that Rose is suspended from his role as CBS This Morning co-host.
Charlie Rose is suspended immediately while we look into this matter, the network said.
Rose is also a contributing correspondent for 60 Minutes.The Post spoke to eight women for the story about Rose, which focuses on his treatment of Charlie Rose employees between the late 1990s and 2011.
None of the women worked for CBS or PBS, according to the report, and PBS, CBS and Bloomberg all told the newspaper that they have no records of sexual harassment complaints about Charlie Rose.
PBS was shocked to learn today of these deeply disturbing allegations, the organization in a statement.
We are immediately suspending distribution of Charlie Rose.
PBS does not fund this nightly program or supervise its production, but we expect our producers to provide a workplace where people feel safe and are treated with dignity and respect.
In a statement, Bloomberg said: We are deeply disturbed to learn of these allegations and are immediately suspending the show from airing on Bloomberg TV.
WHO KNEW?
ROSE IS A SERIAL GROPER?
Most of the women said Rose alternated between fury and flattery in his interactions with them, the Post reported.
Five described Rose putting his hand on their legs, sometimes their upper thigh, in what they perceived as a test to gauge their reactions.
Two said that while they were working for Rose at his residences or were traveling with him on business, he emerged from the shower and walked naked in front of them.
One said he groped her buttocks at a staff party.
ROSE ISSUES STATEMENT Rose addressed the allegations in a statement to the Post and to reporters following publication.
He said: In my 45 years in journalism, I have prided myself on being an advocate for the careers of the women with whom I have worked.
Nevertheless, in the past few days, claims have been made about my behavior toward some former female colleagues.
It is essential that these women know I hear them and that I deeply apologize for my inappropriate behavior.
I am greatly embarrassed.
I have behaved insensitively at times, and I accept responsibility for that, though I do not believe that all of these allegations are accurate.
I always felt that I was pursuing shared feelings, even though I now realize I was mistaken.