THIS IS SO IRONIC!
CRAZED LEFTISTS with an anti-Trump agenda had a hard time relating to reason from a Syrian refugee who actually has skin in the game.
They claim to be speaking to protect this guy and other Syrians, but they actually don t care about what he has to say.
They don t care about the facts!A Syrian refugee shut down by protestors, trying to make his point in a polite way.
Is this really acceptable?
#stopthewar #syria pic.twitter.com/yvEgNfuPZZ Tehmoor Khalid (@TehmoorKhalid) April 7, 2017Is anyone surprised?Watch the crazy lefty shake her finger in his face and yell at him.
Of course, she knows more about what s going on in his country than he does.
He asks the woman if he could speak, when the head guy who s probably a Soros employee, tells her to keep chanting What these people forget is that we are supposed to have the right to free speech in America!
Why is it the left that continuously silences anyone and everyone they disagree with?ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THE LEFT TRYING TO FRAME THE NARRATIVE:A set up by CNN to try and push the anti-Trump narrative experienced a major detour today when a survivor of a gas attack in 2013 didn t follow the line of propaganda that CNN was pushing.
CNN pundit Brooke Baldwin had interviewed this victim of the 2013 attack just 3 days ago.
This survivor spoke of the attacks on innocents setting up the liberal humanitarian perspective.Fast forward to today when we have the aftermath of last night s airstrike, Ms. Baldwin brought Kassem Eid back to frame a narrative about President Trump launching an airstrike in Syria, but being unwilling to accept Syrian refugees.
They wanted to make Trump out to be a hypocrite.To set up the attack on Trump, CNN producers showed Hillary Clinton saying, we cannot speak of protecting Syria s babies, and in the next breath close America s doors to them .What happened next shocked Baldwin and she couldn t shut this guy down fast enough Epic!Kassem Eid, who survived a 2013 chemical gas attack in Syria, expresses his gratitude to President Trump for his missile strike of a Syrian airbase.