Immigration was one of the biggest, most divisive issues during President-elect Donald Trump s presidential campaign.
Not only did he help spark more racism by calling Mexican immigrants drug dealers and rapists, but his constant promise to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and deport undocumented immigrants was a threat that many of his supporters clung to.Now that Trump has won the election, he will actually have to try and deliver that ridiculous promise.
Already, it looks like he will not only have to contend with resistance from the Democrats he ll have to fight with the Republican Party as well!
Politico reports that GOP Sens.
Lindsey Graham and Jeff Flake are teaming up with Democrats to create legislation that would protect approximately 800,000 young undocumented immigrants from one of Trump s deportation schemes.
In reference to Trump s threat to deport undocumented immigrants that were given protection and work permits under a 2012 executive order issued by President Barack Obama, Politico reported: But should Trump follow through on that promise, some key lawmakers on Capitol Hill want to make sure those protections stay in place for the immigrants who willingly gave personal information to the federal government and went through background checks.
One big fear among advocates is that the Trump administration could use that personal information to track down the immigrants to deport them.
Graham, who has been a massive critic of Trump since day one, commented on the legislation and said: The worst outcome is to repeal the legal status that these kids have.
Whether you agree with them having it or not, they ve come out of the shadows.
[The legislation is] going to be basically, if you have legal status, you ll continue legal status.
I think it would pass overwhelmingly.
Of course, we can t be sure that Trump will actually sign this into law when he s President, as this legislation likely won t be up for discussion until next year.
Althought it goes against everything he s been saying in his campaign, Trump is notorious for his random flip-flopping.
Maybe with enough pressure, he will abandon his promises (again).Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images