Former President Bill Clinton has been known to put hecklers in their place before, and he did it again on Tuesday when someone dared to diss Obamacare at a Florida rally.The heckler was seen shouting at Clinton for his previous remarks, in which the protester claimed he had called Obamacare the craziest thing in the world.
This rubbed Clinton the wrong way, and he was noticeably irritated with the accusation as he responded to the accuser.
Clinton fired back, completely shutting down the claim that he d want to repeal President Barack Obama s health care law: What are you asking?
That is not at all what I said.
Oh really?
Go read it.
Go read it.
And don t read it on the internet, don t read it on the internet, get the whole thing.
First, I campaigned hard for that law.
Second, I risked losing the Congress to pass universal health care.
Thirdly, I defended President Obama in 2010 and 2012 and he went up 5 points in the polls after I defended what he did with health care.
Clinton had far more to say though, and it seemed like the heckler had opened up the floodgates.
The former president went on to say that what is REALLY crazy is the Republicans who have actively tried to stop reforms in America s health care system.
He continued to clarify: We shouldn t be in denial, the president said the same thing.
I didn t say a thing that the president hadn t already said, or that the health care people in his administration hadn t already said in his administration.
This protester had merely been piggy-backing off of the comments that Republican nominee Donald Trump had seized upon.
Trump tried to twist Clinton s words as proof that Obamacare was awful and needed to be repealed when he said: President Bill Clinton came out and told the truth about Obamacare.
He s absolutely trashed President Obama s signature legislation.
Remember, Hillary Clinton called Obamacare one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party and of our country.
Give me a break.
Clinton has denied that he was criticizing Obamacare, and this confrontation with a heckler sets the record straight:Featured image via Steve Pope / Getty Images