Well, this is embarrassing!
The NFL commissioner was getting help from a helicopter wife who set up a fake twitter account to counter any negative press on her husband.
It s pretty shocking because his wife is former Fox analyst Jane Skinner Goodell who should know better because she s in the news business.
Did she really think people wouldn t find out who was constantly tweeting support for Goodell?Roger Goodell s wife set up a secret Twitter account to clap back at the NFL commissioner s detractors, according to the Wall Street Journal.The Twitter account, under the name Jones smith, has no followers, no profile picture and has been virtually dormant for long periods since its creation in 2014.
@forargument is no longer active as of Thursday afternoon but according to the report, it was owned and operated by Goodell s wife, Jane Skinner Goodell, and often clashed with sports media outlets that produced content critical of the commissioner.Under the fake name Jones Smith, the account defended Goodell on several issues including the NFL s recent handling of national anthem protests.An example of the mysterious account standing up for Goodell took place earlier this month in response to an ESPN story chronicling the chaos that swept across the league when President Donald Trump went to war with anthem protesters.
Reads like a press release from players union.
You can do better reporting.
(D Smith sounds like D Trump with the inaccurate firebombs), @forargument tweeteed to ESPN writer Seth Wickersham.
D Smith was likely a reference to NFLPA head DeMaurice Smith.Goodell s wife, who is a former broadcast journalist with Fox News, has also taken aim at WSJ columnist Jason Gay and other sportswriters, according to the Journal.The Journal said it traced a series of clues back to Mrs. Goodell, including how the account in question followed four accounts associated with their twin daughters high school.Goodell s wife coming to his digital defense is nothing new in sports and media, though it is embarrassing.
Thin-skinned Kevin Durant was recently accused of running a fake Twitter account to take on negative news and opinion about him on social media.Wives and girlfriends of pro athletes have never been shy about standing up for their famous husbands online.
From Kate Upton sticking up for Justin Verlander not winning a Cy Young last year to Miko Grimes cheerleading for her husband, cornerback Brent Grimes, on social media, plenty of athletes have gotten a digital assist from their significant others.
However, those women did not hide behind a fake Twitter account to make their feelings known.Goodell has earned plenty of negative press in his more than 10 years running the NFL, including the league s handling of domestic violence and concussion issues, Deflategate, and most recently, the anthem protests.Just be nice about what you say about him on Twitter, because his wife might clap back at you.Read more: NYDN