Donald Trump s number one fan still believes in him but her support is beginning to waver.Ann Coulter really thought Trump was the right candidate to take over the presidency.
After all, he said mean things about Muslims and Mexicans and threatened to blow up the entire government.
But despite the fact that Trump has already caused significant damage and issued executive orders targeting Muslims and Latinos, Coulter is apparently moving closer toward saying that Trump s opponents were right.
I m not very happy with what has happened so far, Coulter told the Daily Caller.
I guess we have to try to push him to keep his promises.
But this isn t North Korea, and if he doesn t keep his promises I m out.
This is why we voted for him.
I think everyone who voted for him knew his personality was grotesque, it was the issues.
Indeed, even what Trump said about grabbing women by their genitals without their consent was not enough to turn Coulter against him.
All the sexual assault allegations, the business fraud, and the complete lack of knowledge about how government and the world works did not sway Coulter at all.
She voted for Trump and sang his praises by writing books in support of him.Even the evidence that Trump is not even close to being the deal maker he bragged to be was not enough.
Yet, Coulter is now whining about how terrible Trump is at negotiating as if she wasn t previously warned.
Where is the great negotiation?
she asked.
Where is the bull in the china shop we wanted?
That budget the Republicans pushed through was like a practical joke Did we win anything?
And this is the great negotiator?
Coulter then conceded that things don t look good and compared Trump s presidency to a road trip gone wrong.It s not like I m out yet, but boy, things don t look good.
I ve said to other people, It s as if we re in Chicago and Trump tells us he s going to get us to LA in six days.
But for the first three days we are driving towards New York.
Yes, it is true he can still turn around and get us to LA in three days, but I m a little nervous.Coulter even admits that at least one thing Trump has done is fascist.I have from the beginning been opposed to Trump hiring any of his relatives.
Americans don t like that, I don t like that.
That s the one fascist thing he s done.
Hiring his kids.Yeah, never mind the deportation force that is literally rounding up Latinos like the Nazis did to the Jews.
Never mind the fact Trump has signed executive orders targeting people just because of their religious beliefs.
Never mind the fact that Trump is aligned with the interests of corporations.
Never mind that he treats women like shit.
Never mind that he has repeatedly attacked the free press and uses Fox News as his personal propaganda machine.
Coulter thinks Trump has just done one fascist thing by giving his daughter an office in the White House.
Somebody needs to give Coulter a refresher course on what fascism is.Trump s poll numbers continue to drop and his policies are set to destroy millions of lives and put the world on course for World War III but Coulter still isn t ready to turn against him just yet despite using words like nightmare and disaster to describe Trump s tenure thus far.I ll say we had no choice, but the Trump-haters were right It s a nightmare.
I can t even contemplate that.
Right now I m still rooting for him to turn around and take us toward LA It s just that it has been such a disaster so far.But Coulter did have a choice.
The Republican field of candidates in 2016 was bigger than it ever has been.
She literally had over a dozen choices.
But she chose a whining loudmouth ignoramus over candidates like Jeb Bush or John Kasich, who would have been far better and saner than Trump.
She just wants to watch the world burn and she is disappointed that Trump hasn t destroyed it fast enough.Featured image via Flickr