A 19-year old kid is upset about the debate over the U.K. s tampon tax, because he considers tampons to be luxury items.
Why are tampons luxury items in his world?
Incredibly enough, it s not because men don t need them.
It s because, in this kid s eyes, women should just not bleed until they re able to get to a toilet.
Because, you know, periods totally work that way.It might seem like this is satire, but it s not.
This kid actually does think this way, despite having a girlfriend.
He said: People are saying tampons shouldn t be taxed because they are a necessity but why can t those women just learn to control their bladders?If they are going to bleed then they should wait until they get to the toilet.
It s all about self-control.If you can t control your bladder then that s not the taxpayers problem.
I don t urinate everywhere and expect free nappies.
For this nonsense, he earned an awful lot of what he calls hate, and that s not surprising at all.
He needs a biology lesson and everyone who s said so is right.
Despite his obvious deficiencies, Ryan fancies himself a politician and politics expert, and says on his Instagram account, Making the #meninist movement mainstream once again.
The meninist movement is basically the men s rights movement, which is full of poor, put-upon guys who think women are oppressing them and are the devil.The comments on the picture below, via his Instagram account, explain it all:Bumped into @brooklynbeckham #brooklynbeckhamA photo posted by @ryanwilliams97 on Sep 20, 2016 at 2:43pm PDTEven that doesn t stop him, though.
In response to what he no doubt sees as the preposterous idea that he doesn t know anything about biology here, he said: People have told me that I must have skipped biology lessons but I don t understand how that is relevant.
I have even had death threats.People are saying it isn t dirty, it s natural but urine and faeces are natural and still dirty.
It s utter hypocrisy.
He s thrilled that men agree with him on the issue of tampon taxes, because of course they do, and that may have swelled his head because he s as egotistical as he clueless.
He actually said on his Facebook page: For TV requests, contact me directly.
He s also been dumb enough to start what can only be termed a sarcastic GoFundMe campaign for biology lessons, which he proved he needs because he still can t understand why women can t just hold their bladders.
He believes we re all lazy because we don t, and has the most bizarre example of why it s just a matter of self control: My gorgeous Toy Poodle, castrated when she was a puppy to stop the periods and to prevent any aggression PMT would give her.If your bladder is too weak which clearly it is for most of you, then see a doctor and have the same procedure.
What does that even mean?
You can t castrate a female he s suggesting that women get hysterectomies to stop their periods.
This guy thinks we actually like bleeding for a week every single month for most of our lives.
Or, at the very least, that we don t mind it.
Then again, he also says his girlfriend never bleeds.
Too bad his GoFundMe isn t serious.
He s in dire need of those biology lessons.Featured image via screen capture from embedded photo