As the creeping realization that Donald J. Trump is, in fact, the Republican nominee slowly dawns on conservatives, there has been a new push to re-frame the candidate as more presidential and more serious than people had originally thought.
This requires a level of mental gymnastics that would qualify for the Olympics.
While Trump s backers and some in the media continue to insist Trump is shifting towards maturity, he keeps emphatically insisting that he really is the racist, xenophobic blowhard he originally postured himself as.Consider this: Just one day after the newly elected mayor of London publicly humiliated Trump over his abhorrent plan to ban Muslims from entering the United States, Trump was on increasingly pro-Trump Fox News to announce his latest Big Plan for when he s president: A tribunal run by Rudy Giuliani with the sole purpose of working out what to do about the Muslim problem.
We have a president that won t even use the term radical Islamic terrorism.
He won t use the term.
He refuses to say the term, even after Paris where 130 people were killed or San Bernardino or any other place.
It s a real problem.
So we ll figure it out, and we will get it going.
But we have to be extremely careful.
In fact, I m thinking about setting up a commission perhaps headed by Rudy Giuliani to take a very serious look at this problem.
But this is a worldwide problem, and we have to be smart.Giuliani, famous for his handling of New York City s response after 9/11, has spent the last decade and a half growing increasingly fanatical.
In recent years it s not uncommon to see him on Fox News complaining about black people and Muslims in ways that sometimes even make the conservative hosts blush.Giuliani is now Trump s go to guy on Islamophobia.
When the candidate spuriously claimed that thousands of Muslim Americans were cheering on 9/11, Giuliani quickly rushed onto CNN to describe, in vivid detail, one such example.
We had one situation in which a candy store owned by a Muslim family was celebrating that day, right near a housing development.
And the kids in the housing development came in and beat them up.And, I think both facts were corroborated to be true.
Because they were celebrating that the towers were coming down, some of the kids got really upset about it and they came in and did a pretty good job of beating them up.
Except those facts were not true.
What Giuliani was referring to turned out to be an anti-Muslim hate crime.
Here s what really happened that day:Yesterday I saw first-hand how anger over the World Trade Center attack turns on Muslims who call New York home.
At 4:30 p.m. on 116th St., five black teenagers stopped in front of the American Muslim Community of East Harlem site a closet-sized candy store with a make-shift mosque in a back room.
Tiny store owner Muhammad Chaudhry stood in the doorway.
One of the teenage boys asked him, Do you feel sorry for America?
The kid then gave Chaudhry a knock-out punch in the face that sent him reeling backwards and onto the floor.This man, whose hatred for Muslims made him misremember a hate crime to fit his warped view, will now be tasked with solving Trump s fabricated Muslim problem.
That is a very scary thought.Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images