Antifa member, Paul Luke Kuhn who was busted by Project Veritas undercover journalists plotting Butyric acid attacks to disrupt Trump s inauguration party and subsequently arrested was spotted today at a DC protest today.Was he violating his probation orders following his arrest?Rebel Media s Jack Posobiec was live on the scene in D.C. reporting at a protest when he was assaulted by Antifa.
The Antifa supporter who physically assaulted Posobiec was immediately arrested.
After reviewing the footage, Antifa member, Luke Kuhn was immediately recognized.
(A face that creepy is impossible to forget).VIDEO footage of assault where you can see Luke Kuhn clearly.Note the woman who is pretending to be a reporter with a notebook in her hand who tells the police officer, nothing happened when he rushes across the street after clearly seeing what just happened.
Another friend of the violent leftist who sucker punched Jack Posobiec tells the police officer, It was self-defense.
Lying, violent liberals wearing their little sister s bike helmets and masks.
God help us if we ever need these men to actually defend our nation Jack Posobiec Assaulted by Antifa Terrorist pic.twitter.com/L2UvnJ2pKq Jack Posobiec (@JackPosobiec) April 23, 2017Here s a Twitter user telling the reporter Lacy MacAuley to lawyer up after she lied to the police officer telling him, nothing happened after Posobiec got sucker-punched on camera:This is the video of you yelling, "Nothing happened."
You were an accessory.
I'd lawyer up pronto if I was you.
https://t.co/mcY9sisqPC Covfefing Michaela (@MichaelaAleach1) April 23, 2017Here is her arrogant response.
Clearly she s living in the past (when Obama still reigned supreme, and when criminals had the upper hand over law enforcement).
You re living in Trump s world now Lacy.
You may want to lawyer up.Yes I am absolutely proud of this.
Thanks for reposting this video.
Because, guess what?
Nothing illegal happened.
No one was punched.
https://t.co/XSEXFK7VmO Lacy MacAuley (@lacymacauley) April 23, 2017This is the video of you yelling, "Nothing happened."
You were an accessory.
I'd lawyer up pronto if I was you.
https://t.co/mcY9sisqPC Covfefing Michaela (@MichaelaAleach1) April 23, 2017Let s hope this loser who threatened an acid attack on Trump supporters joins his little lying friends behind bars: https://twitter.com/Stello_Official/status/856254436641042432Jack Posobiec Assaulted by Antifa Terrorist pic.twitter.com/L2UvnJ2pKq Jack Posobiec (@JackPosobiec) April 23, 2017h/t Gateway Pundit