If Lewis Black really does have a ticket to the inauguration, Donald Trump is probably trying to revoke it right now.Because during Wednesday night s Daily Show, the comedian roasted Trump, taking particular aim at Trump s inauguration problems.For weeks, Trump and his team have been desperately trying to find an A-list celebrity to perform at the inauguration.
For the most part, Trump has failed, so he has resorted to hiring a reality show contestant and a has-been band, while forcing the Radio City Rockettes to perform because they can be fired for saying no.Black informed Trump that if he wants to know why many celebrities died in 2016, it s because they didn t want to perform at the inauguration either.
You want to know why so many celebrities died in 2016?
It was to get out of playing the goddamn inauguration, Black quipped.Then Black pointed out that Trump is pretending he doesn t really care if A-list celebrities show up, even going so far as to claim that he s the one who rejected them and not the other way around.The so-called A list celebrities are all wanting tixs to the inauguration, but look what they did for Hillary, NOTHING.
I want the PEOPLE!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 23, 2016Black was able to get a ticket, however, and he intends to show up on Friday whether Trump likes it or not.
I ve got my tickets, and I m going to go no matter what, Black said.
Because I want to be there when Trump touches the Bible and his hand catches on fire.
Black went on to break the news to Trump that even Richard Nixon was able to land A-list talent for his inaugural ceremony by getting legendary entertainer James Brown to sing.
All Trump has been able to get so far is Jackie Evancho, who didn t even win America s Got Talent.To make matters worse, Trump s team literally humiliated themselves by bragging about the participation of the Caisson Platoon and the famous army horse Black Jack.
The problem is that Black Jack has been dead since 1976.
Trump is tweeting a dead horse, Black quipped.Black then revealed Trump s inauguration them is soft sensuality which Black says is good because at least Trump is going to f*ck America gently.
Here s the video via YouTube.With an embarrassment like Trump in office, comedians like Lewis Black are definitely going to have plenty of material over the next four years.Featured Image: Screenshot