Amateur president Donald Trump isn t well liked in the U.S. or around the world.
37 nations had far more confidence in former Barack Obama when it comes to international affairs than with the former reality show star.
In the U.K., protesters are on alert just in case Trump makes a surprise visit in order to avoid being triggered by any demonstrations against his administration.
70 percent of the public in Britain have an unfavorable view of Trump.
Trump, a man who seeks constant adoration, found a safe place with Poland, likely because of the governing party s nationalistic ideology.Trump has a lot in common with Poland s leaders.
They oppose immigration, they hold doubts about climate change and don t intend to give up on coal-generated energy.The Associated Press reports that Poland s government will alleviate Trump s hurt fee-fees over possibly not being welcomed by the country s people.The White House received a promise from Poland s government that Trump will be well received and to accomplish that, crowds will be bussed in by pro-government activists to cheer for the so-called president of the U.S.The Wall Street Journal reports:Like many of his fellow Polish pro-government lawmakers, Dominik Tarczynski is sending a busload of constituents to Warsaw on Thursday to cheer for President Donald Trump.
The buses are being provided by a foundation close to the governing party.
It s going to be huge absolutely huge, Mr. Tarczynski said of the coming welcome for Mr. Trump.
They just love him, the people in Poland they just really love him.
Sure, but they have to be paid or prompted to show their alleged love for him.
a osne!With growing tensions mounting between North Korea and the U.S., the former reality show star was asked what he plans to do about that.
Trump responded just before taking flight, saying, We re going to do very well.
As for the crowds being bussed in to feign adoration for Trump, the alleged president is still not well liked by Poland s citizens so he shouldn t count on a huge crowd of supporters cheering him on.Photo by Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images.