Donald Trump wants Bernie Sanders to be the Donald Trump of the Democratic race and that just isn t happening.In a move that suggests Donald Trump is getting more and more worried about his general election chances beyond the primaries, he sent a tweet to his followers that suggested Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders abandon the party and go independent.Bernie Sanders has been treated terribly by the Democrats both with delegates & otherwise.
He should show them, and run as an Independent!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 26, 2016It s not a surprising suggestion coming from Trump, considering the fact that he has repeatedly threatened to bail on the Republican Party if things didn t go his way in the election.
Just last week, Trump said if he lost he would not endorse whoever beat him, opting instead to never be seen again.
We should be so lucky.But while Trump continues to set fire to the GOP, Jane Sanders threw cold water on Trump s attempt to spread the wildfire to the left.
Speaking with CNN s Wolf Blitzer, she emphatically said that her husband would not be running as an independent if he didn t get the nomination..@janeosanders responds to Donald Trump: Bernie will not be running as an independent https://t.co/6OZtrfIwim https://t.co/5RLWPlv1zA CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) April 26, 2016Without blinking, Sanders told Blitzer that we ve been very clear right from the beginning that we will not play the role of spoiler.
And as if to make it even clearer, added: Bernie will not be running as an independent.
In short, the stakes are just too high.
When the alternatives are a bigot like Donald Trump or a dangerous anti-government zealot like Ted Cruz, liberals need to unite rather than allow themselves to be divided.
As Jane Sanders said, the electoral system may not be perfect, but: We cannot afford a Republican in the White House.
We cannot afford a Republican appointing Supreme Court justices.
Jane Sanders comments echo that of President Obama, who recently said it has been a difficult time for Republicans (surely an understatement), but things were looking up for Democrats.We have two fine Democratic candidates who, no matter their differences, share this same set of core beliefs that defines our party.
And in November, we re going to make sure that one of them becomes our next president.It s clear that there is only one political party in danger of being torpedoed by one of its own candidates, and it s not the Democrats.Featured image via video screen capture/Twitter