The right-wing mom who forced her children to sing songs to the Bundy terrorists after they seized a federal wildlife refuge in Oregon experienced a revolt of her own when her children took away her guns and fled the house in search of help from law enforcement.The five kids escaped the home because they wanted the beatings they constantly endured to end.Authorities arrested Odalis Sharp on Friday for beating the children bloody with a rod in the name of God in what she called her way of leading them to Christianity.
We need to turn to God, because the system is corrupt, Sharp said before accusing the government of waging a vendetta against her.
They lie, they twist, they make false charges, they abuse people, and then they turn around and put people in prison, and then they accuse them of abuse.
But it isn t the government accusing Sharp of abuse, it s her own children.They testified on Wednesday that their mother mercilessly abused them most days of the week by calling them names, forcing them to eat soap, and beating them bloody with a belt or rod as well as slapping them and hitting them in their private parts.
They said it s typical to always receive some type of bruising and other times have bled from the swats, a social worker told the court.
The children told me they were fearful.
They did not want to return to their mother.
The sheriff also described how one child told him that one of spankings consisted of 47 swats, and that after 27 spankings the abused child began bleeding.
Sharp s 15-year-old son fled the home to escape constant beatings as well and Sharp explained it by saying the boy rejected the right, wholesome and pure path in which I was leading him in which God was leading us.
And the kids don t have to go back to their mother either because the judge removed the children from Sharp s custody and placed them in the custody of the Kansas Department of Children and Families.Here s the video of Sharp s rant via YouTube.This is yet another case of how conservatives twist and use religion to excuse horrible acts.
This woman dragged her kids to the center of a standoff between the FBI and a bunch of gun-toting right-wing terrorists and that s on top of the constant beatings they suffered at the hands of their mother who actually thinks she is doing God s work by bloodying up her kids.That probably makes televangelist Pat Robertson smile, but is hardly an acceptable way to treat children in modern society.
If you have to resort to beating religion into kids, your religion is truly weak.Featured image via screenshot