Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz has been under a tremendous amount of fire lately for what some Democrats perceive as a vendetta against Senator Bernie Sanders.
Liberals have accused the DNC chair of fixing the primary in Hillary Clinton s favor and there have been many calls for her to step aside.
Now, a large progressive group is adding their voice to the fray after comments the chairwoman made in the New York Times Magazine about Roe v. Wade.CREDO Mobile, a phone company that uses their profits to fund liberal causes and has a network of more than 3.6 million people, started a petition calling for Wasserman-Schultz s resignation.
The petition was prompted by an interview that was published Wednesday morning in which the chairwoman said there is a complacency among the generation of young women whose entire lives have been lived after Roe v. Wade was decided.
The comments garnered immediate backlash as women took to Twitter and lashed out at her using the hashtag #DearDebbie.
She later clarified her remarks, saying: For many in my generation who lived the majority of our lives with the right to make our own health care choices, there wasn t a sense of urgency after Roe v. Wade settled our right to a safe and legal abortion.
Since then, opponents worked aggressively to chip away at women s reproductive freedom and they have awakened a sleeping giant in the millennials leading the fight in defense of the progress we ve made.
CREDO fired back at Wasserman-Schultz with the petition demanding she step down, claiming:Democratic National Committee Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz just accused young women of complacency in the fight for abortion rights.Young women, especially low income women and women of color, have been bearing the brunt of the right-wing s relentless assault on abortion rights and have been leading the charge to fight back.
Wasserman Schultz s comment shows how out of touch she is with the progressive core values of the Democratic activist base, and is just the latest in a string of unacceptable actions that makes it clear it is time for her to resign as chair of the DNC.The group also accused her of rigging the primary to suppress Democratic turnout, putting her personal interests before the party, trying to sabotage the president s Iran deal, and siding with anti-progressive special interests.
Whether you agree with CREDO or not, the debacle on Wednesday and the others in the months leading up to it, show that there is a rift forming in the party that is not good for us.
With the primaries right around the corner and the general election just months away, we need to unite for the good of our party.
The infighting is unhealthy and the more divided we become, the better the chances are that we could see a Republican in the White House.
Do you really want a President Donald Trump or President Ted Cruz?It is time to put our differences aside and focus on beating the GOP in November; we can handle everything else afterward.Featured image via Florida Politics