Thankfully, Chris Christie proved he was beyond shame when he endorsed Donald Trump for president, but this moment had to sting a little bit.In a humiliating moment for the one-time Republican presidential candidate, a hot mic captured the way Donald Trump treats his new lap dog and it isn t pretty.At a rally, Christie seemed to think he would share the stage with Trump during Trump s portion of the event, but apparently the idea of sharing a spotlight with a former rival wasn t something Trump was about to let happen.
Shaking Christie s hand, Trump leans in and whispers, Get on the plane and go home.
It s over there.
Go home.
Christie at first continues waving, then simply says Okay and walks towards the exit.Here s the video:Whether Trump was trying to be nice by sparing Christie yet another stump speech is not clear, but what is clear is that Trump would much prefer it if his friends avoided trying to take too much of the attention away from him.It s probably a tough pill to swallow, but Christie must surely realize by now that by endorsing Trump, he doesn t get to share in the Republican front-runners spotlight.
Viciously jealous, astoundingly egotistical, Trump has always been a one-man operation.
He will share his fame with no one.Christie, of course, knows all of this.
Months ago he was loudly suggesting that Trump was not presidential material.
And just 19 days before saying this There is no one who is better prepared to provide America with the strong leadership that it needs both at home and around the world than Donald Trump, Christie said, he is looking at the five people on that stage last night the clear standout and the person who will do exactly what needs to be done to make America a leader around the world again.
Christie was saying this Bravado, by itself, is not a plan, he said, I like him, he s a good person, he s just not the right person to be President of the United States and not the person that we d want representing our country.
Now that Christie needs to take orders from Trump, mockery was quick on social media.Trump to Christie.
https://t.co/MWgqPSr2sF deray mckesson (@deray) February 28, 2016Too good.
https://t.co/dtSXNDji3l Michael Moore (@MMFlint) February 28, 2016And now Trump appears to tell Christie to go home https://t.co/ePO3KdfAia Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) February 27, 2016Christie's face when Trump tells him to go home .Crestfallen.
https://t.co/3GTvTwaqqY Peter Hasson (@peterjhasson) February 28, 2016Will Christie be relieved to go back home to New Jersey?
It doesn t seem likely.
Having been on the road for the last few months, Christie has gotten the luxury of forgetting the mess that he left behind in the state he is supposed to be governing.
But now it appears he doesn t have much choice.
Get on the plane and go home, Christie.Featured image via ABC News screengrab