Trump keeps saying that bad people, a.k.a radical Islamic terrorist groups, are happy that he s been unable to keep immigrants, refugees and travelers from seven Middle Eastern countries from coming into the U.S.
But that s not what makes them happy.
What makes them happy is actually that Trump is in the White House.
He s a bumbling idiot who s going to piss off so many Muslims that these groups feel they won t have any trouble recruiting and growing, and throwing off the shackles of the oppressive West.
Al Qaeda s leader in Yemen has already expressed his sheer joy at Trump s bungled raid there.
Hezbollah has joined the fray, too, saying something that should be offensive as all hell to Trump: We are very optimistic that when an idiot settles in the White House and boasts about his idiocy, this is the beginning of relief for the oppressed around the world.
One of the reasons they feel optimistic is likely the fact that Trump is busy pissing off the entire world, which will galvanize various groups into working together assuming enough of the world gets angry.There are squillions of theories out about why these groups hate us so much, such as the anti-Muslim propaganda that s been circulating here with growing frequency over the last 15 years.
Many people the world over view that kind of propaganda as coming from our government, and now, with Trump, that view has been vindicated.Trump is a master of anti-brown people propaganda to the point where terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS have used him in recruiting videos.
He s said Islam hates us, and claimed we would wipe out Islamic terrorist groups.
Four Islamic non-profit organizations have rejected federal funding intended to help them fight radicalization because of Trump.
They feel that both the funds and Trump himself merely promote hatred, fear and intolerance, and that he s declared war on Muslims.There s much more, too.
Trump is pigeonholing Muslims as a naturally violent group that must be exterminated.
It alienates Muslims of every stripe.
So really, is it any wonder that Hezbollah or anyone else is happy that Trump was elected?
He s helping their cause.
Trump is making things more dangerous for us.
He will never do anything that will make us safer.Featured image by Chris Kleponis via Getty Images