So is radical islam a made up idea?
Are all horrors committed in the name of radical Islam just a figment of our imagination?
Our own military would disagree with the liberal premiss and would go further in warning our military vets against acting pompous for fear of an attack from a VERY REAL threat and NOT a made up idea .
You can t have it both ways and ignore the enemy but then raise an alarm against the possibility of an attack by them.
So which is it?
I stand with reality and truth.
I stand with our military against the VERY REAL enemy that is Islam.
The hardest thing to explain is the glaringly evident which everybody has decided not to see.
Ayn RandMILITARY VETS TOLD NOT TO ACT POMPOUS Over the weekend, military bases across the United States were placed on higher alert for domestic terror attacks, in response to a surge in threatening chatter from ISIS and its sympathizers.
It is the highest level of security since the tenth anniversary of September 11, notes Fox 13 News in Tampa Bay, home of MacDill Air Force Base.
No specific threat has been announced, but the alert comes after an FBI warning that there are hundreds of known, active ISIS supporters in the United States.
Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson warned that lone wolf terrorists, such as the jihadis who attacked the Mohammed Art Exhibit in Garland, Texas, could strike at any moment.
He described this as a new and challenging security environment, but added, we are not discouraging Americans from doing the things they do on a daily basis.
That disclaimer might not be entirely accurate, judging by what Fox 13 has been hearing from the military community in Tampa.
Military personnel, veterans and their families at military bases like MacDill are being advised to be careful what they post online and talk about in public, says the report.Retired Col. E.J.
Otero is quoted as saying the 440,000 veterans in the Tampa Bay area have heard through one way or another from the commanders at MacDill to pay attention, keep a low profile, don t be so pompous about being in the military, because those guy are looking for possible targets.
Read more: Breitbart News