During an interview on CNN Sunday morning, Jake Tapper pressed Donald Trump hard asking for some shred of evidence that the presumptive Republican frontrunner s claims regarding the Iraq War are true.Trump attempted to position himself against Hillary Clinton s vote in favor of the Iraq War: I have a very strong temperament, but I have a temperament that s totally under control.
And [Hillary Clinton] mentions that I ll bring us into war.
She s the one that wanted to go into Iraq.
She raised her hand.
She didn t know what the hell she was doing.
She raised her hand.
I said, I don t want to go into Iraq.
Iraq is going to destabilize the Middle East, and I was 100 percent right, Trump told Tapper.Now, this might actually be a legitimate talking point if this were a normal election and Trump wasn t Trump.
However, that is not at all the case.
That s why Tapper decided to call out Trump s statement that he was against the Iraq War before it started.Here is a transcript of the exchange:JAKE TAPPER: Can I just say one point on that, I have looked so long and hard for any evidence TRUMP: I ll give it to you.
2004, they had newspaper articles.TAPPER: Right, but the war started in 2003.TRUMP: It did, but you know what, you look at I did an interview with Howard [Stern], and that interview was the first time I was ever asked the question.
Don t forget I was an entrepreneur.
I m a real estate person.TAPPER: But didn t you say to Howard that you thought it was a good idea?TRUMP: This was before the war started, long before the war started and it was a very, like, I don t know.
First, nobody ever asked me the question, when you re do what I did nobody was talking about a lot of the questions that you ask me today, and I was I sort of like, well, I don t know, maybe, I don t know.
By the time that started, I was totally against it, and from 2004 on, there s a lot of proof of that, because, as you know, there was articles in magazines, there was a lot of articles.TAPPER: Yeah.
A year after the war started.TRUMP: No, no, but I was against it from before it started.
And if you go back and look at that interview, and I ll get it for you if you want, but that interview was substantially before the war started.
It was the first time I was ever asked the question.
And even that, it wasn t like, oh yeah, we should go in.
It was a very, like yeah, maybe.TAPPER: The only thing I would say, and then we don t have to belabor this point, is if there is evidence of you being against the war strongly before the war actually started, I would love to see that.TRUMP: OK, but I think there is evidence.TAPPER: I just haven t seen it.TRUMP: I think there is evidence.
I haven t been asked that question before.
Nobody said that to me before.
I think there is evidence, I ll see if I can get it.
But I will say, from the beginning of 2004, I mean I ve had articles, and I mean there are magazines TAPPER: 2004 no question.TRUMP: I was against the war a long time ago and it destabilized the Middle East, and that s exactly what I said was going to happen.While the political theater of watching Trump try to back up one of his claims without there being any actual evidence to back his claims is always entertaining, Trump accidently exposed a huge weakness of his in the interview.
No one cares what Trump has had to say about anything before this election cycle.
His greatest achievement in the political realm until now was his fanning of the flames that was the birther conspiracy theory.No one cared in 2013 what Trump had to say about the Iraq War then.
Trump has alleged that the reason that there isn t any evidence of his disapproval of the Iraq War was because no one asked him about it.
Who would ask the Trump of 2003 his opinion on any matter of seriousness?
He was reality television star.
He didn t matter.That being said, if Trump did actually have such strong feelings against the Iraq War, why didn t he bring it up.
Trump had the money and social capital to launch a campaign against the Iraq invasion that could have possibly have had an actual impact.Yet he didn t. That s because Trump is a selfish opportunist and taking a stand at the right time in history is not in his nature.You can watch the interview below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M5dC2l8j6UUFeatured image from video screenshot