A new poll released from ABC/Washington Post shows some very good news for Democrats: not only is Hillary Clinton crushing Donald Trump, but President Obama s approval rating has hit a five year high topping off at 56 percent of people who approve of him a five point gain from the last poll conducted.
Only 41 percent disapprove.The last time President Obama s approval rating was that high was when Osama bin Laden was killed in May 2011.
It s also worth noting that the President s approval rating was taken in the immediate aftermath of the Orlando shooting, the deadliest terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11.But wait, there s more good news: not only does 56 percent of the American electorate approve of President Obama s presidency overall, 55 percent approve (42 disapprove) of his handling of the economy.
Considering Trump likes to paint himself as the best man to handle the economy, the news should offer him and his campaign a much needed wake up call.As the Post noted:Obama is more popular now than Republicans George W. Bush and George H.W.
Bush in the waning months of their presidencies.
Although Obama s approval rating has not reached the level of former Democratic president Bill Clinton s in 2000, his standing suggests that he could be a relatively effective surrogate for Hillary Clinton on the campaign trail.Just think about it Clinton already has a huge lead over Trump, and that s before the very popular President Obama has hit the campaign trail.
Once Americans see what will be leaving and what might be succeeding them, one could expect to see not only Clinton s poll numbers to rise, but Obama s as well.So what say you, Republicans?
A healthy majority of Americans support the president and loathe your candidate.
I don t think Republicans get to talk about the will of the American people anymore.
They have no ground to stand on, no leverage, and no one seems to be taking them seriously anymore.President Reagan s final year approval high was 65 percent, just nine points higher than President Obama s. The President still has six more months, and considering how unpopular Donald Trump is becoming, America should expect to see it climb higher.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images