Alleged president Donald Trump is throwing a party for House Republicans after passing the worst healthcare plan imaginable to replace Obamacare while sticking a knife in the back of the middle class.
Republicans had eight years to come up with a viable alternative, but instead, the ACHA will raise pregnancy costs by 425 percent, and the top two percent will be gifted with a trillion dollar tax cut and that will be paid for by the bottom 40 percent.
Fiscally conservative Republicans don t seem to care what Trumpcare will cost the taxpayers.
They refused to wait for the CBO scores to find out.Twenty Republicans in total broke with their party and voted against the bill which will strip health care from 24 million Americans.Democrats had a message for House Republicans who voted to let this travesty of a health care plan pass.
They taunted Republicans by chanting, Na na na na, Na na na na, Hey hey hey, Goodbye!
Watch:Here's the video: House Dems singing "Na na na na, Na na na na, Hey hey hey, Goodbye to Repubs following the health care vote via @MSNBC pic.twitter.com/nnQ5kc8HEp Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 4, 2017Every single Republican who voted for Trumpcare will now have a well-deserved target on their backs.Trumpcare would cut Medicaid by $880 billion, or 25 percent, over 10 years and impose a per-capita cap on funding for certain groups of people, such as children and the elderly, according to the New York Times.People with pre-existing conditions will see their premiums explode.
The elderly, people with cancer, diabetes, asthma, etc, will see a surge in their premiums.
Having healthcare will no longer be affordable.
Obamacare had issues but it was fixable and those with pre-existing conditions were covered.Trump supporters will be largely affected by the repeal of Obamacare and some of them are waking up to that inconvenient fact.I voted for Trump, dear god I wish I could take my vote back.
To the entire world I apologize #VoteNoAHCA John Bush (@JohnJBush5) May 4, 2017Republican voters were warned that this would happen.
Trump told them he would repeal Obamacare.
Democrats warned them, too.Image via screen capture