Half-term Governor of Alaska and professional grifter Sarah Palin faceplanted while rock running so naturally, she took to her Facebook account to bash Hillary Clinton.
Sarah seems to think that Hillary is in hiding and she links to several Breitbart posts to prove it.
Stop laughing.
She s super-serious.
We re not going to link to the Alt-Right site but those links are on her page.Sarah somehow connected her accident to Hillary Clinton.
Leave Hillary Alone, Bullies, Sarah sarcastically writes in her post.
Aww, c mon guys, give her a break.
Anyone can be out of commission .
for weeks on end whilst in the heat of battle for the highest office in the land.
No press conferences for nearly a year?, she continues.
No scheduled campaign events for days upon days?
No statements, no answers, no accountability, no problem.
Layin low to run out the clock before November, but you re SEXIST for noticing it.
And you re MISOGYNIST for questioning a female s fitness.
Good thing media didn t hound the crap out of 08 candidate John McCain for his decades-old military medical records or I d guess them to be hypocrites, she writes, with no respect for the English language.
Leave Hillary alone!
All that email-evidenced yoga, and wedding planning, and cookie-baking-grandma-duty wears you out.
Believe you me, she states.
Seriously though, is that an actual sentence?
Heck, even those of us claiming to be fit as a (seasoned?)
fiddle, hit bumps in the wellness road.
Even I.
Especially I.
(Remember Piper s middle name is Grace ; mine isn t.), she writes.
Rock-running recently, I tripped over my own two feet and crashed & burned face-first.
I recovered with the doc s SuperGlue, and now any man who asks what happened?
I ll refer to as just a mean ol SEXIST bully, Palin continues.
Glad for Hillary s protective media s precedence.
The next woman running for POTUS has no need to answer to much of anything, for we ve got weddings to plan, and Down Dogs to do, and cookies in the oven!
So just leave us alone, boys, she concluded.
We do not speak Turnip at Addicting Info, so it s beyond our capabilities to translate that psychotic woman s Facebook-babble.
Sarah Palin is wrong and if she could master Googling then she d learn that Hillary Clinton has a full schedule ahead of her.
Every single day.
Sarah is feeding the conspiracy theory that Hillary is unstable and needs assistance walking up stairs.
The fact is, Hillary slipped while walking up the stairs.
You know, sort of how Sarah Palin slipped while rock running.
Speaking of hiding, where are Donald Trump s taxes?We hope Sarah feels better, though.
She seems to be suffering from a brain injury.Featured image via Facebook