Here s the thing about being the leader of the free world, you need to be able to get along with other nations and be able to work with them hand in glove.
However, the world seems to be united against he possibility of Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump.
Several foreign diplomats have issued statements declaring their concern.According to Reuters: Officials from Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and Asia have complained in recent private conversations, mostly about the xenophobic nature of Trump s statements, said three U.S. officials, who all declined to be identified.
With one of the officials stating: As the [Trump] rhetoric has continued, and in some cases amped up, so, too, have concerns by certain leaders around the world.
Reuters explains: U.S. officials said it was highly unusual for foreign diplomats to express concern, even privately, about candidates in the midst of a presidential campaign.
U.S. allies in particular usually don t want to be seen as meddling in domestic politics, mindful that they will have to work with whoever wins.Senior leaders in several countries including Britain, Mexico, France, and Canada have already made public comments criticizing Trump s positions.
German Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel branded him a threat to peace and prosperity in an interview published on Sunday.
With Trump s consistent racist and xenophobic talk and tactics that are borderline fascist and totalitarian, it is easy to see why so many worldwide are deeply concerned.
One senior NATO official said: European diplomats are constantly asking about Trump s rise with disbelief and, now, growing panic.
With the EU facing an existential crisis, there s more than the usual anxiety about the U.S. turning inward when Europe needs U.S. support more than ever.
Just last week, more than 90 Republican foreign policy veterans have pledged to oppose Donald Trump, saying his proposals would undermine U.S. security, in the latest sign of fissures between the Republican presidential front-runner and the party establishment.
It has been clear that not only Democrats don t want Trump, but also Republicans and pretty much the entire world.
We, as voters, need to make sure that Trump gets nowhere near the Oval Office, not even on a White House tour.
He s dangerous and would not only tarnish the image of the United States at home and abroad, but may cause irreversible harm to diplomatic relations worldwide.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr)