Trump doesn t have a plan about how, exactly, he will build his wall on the Mexican border but Home Depot co-founder Bernie Marcus surely has some idea where he can get his supplies.
Recently, the retired CEO and chairman of the home improvement supplies company wrote a piece for Real Clear Politics in which he expressed both his hatred for Barack Obama and his love for the 2016 Republican nominee.In his unsolicited ravings, the billionaire says that Trump is the only hope for America.
In rhetoric typical of those on the far Right, he informs us that Barack Obama is destroying our country and the one who can fix everything make America great again if you will is The Donald:I know Donald Trump, but we re not close friends.
However, I believe he will begin on Day One undoing the damage done by President Barack Obama.
I stand ready to help him at every turn.Like many, I am deeply concerned about the US Supreme Court.
When Trump recently released his list of potential appointees, I grew confident in his resolve to keep our court balanced.
Even more important: Clinton will push the court leftward for generations.
She must be stopped.
I genuinely believe that if we to [sic] started The Home Depot today, he adds, we would fail because of the hurdles government, especially the current administration, places in front of small business owners.
He laments the future of the Supreme Court under a Clinton presidency.
According to Marcus, Clinton will push the court leftward for generations and must be stopped.
And, once again, the one to stop her is Trump:Donald Trump is right: To inspire more of these men and women, we must make America great again.
Record-breaking numbers of Republican primary voters agree.
They overwhelmingly want Donald Trump to lead this sea change, and we believe he can.
But he needs to stand on our shoulders; he cannot do it alone.One of the greatest lessons we took away from The Home Depot is to always listen to your customers.
Without their input, we surely would have failed.
Republican leaders must listen to their customers, too their voters and they have spoken clearly.
As Americans, the choice is abundantly clear: If you want four more years of President Obama, vote for Hillary Clinton; if you want to take the country in a new direction, vote for Donald Trump, he says, urging Americans to stand up for hate (and wall building).He s right, though.
Given those two choices, it is important to vote for the best one to lead America forward, the one who can be trusted to continue and expand upon Trump s policies and with Sanders almost out of the picture (please don t kill me; I voted for him), that choice is very clearly Hillary Clinton.
While Democrats disagree over which of our two very qualified candidates should run against Trump, the most important thing we can do is ensure that Donald Trump doesn t make it anywhere near the White House.The next President will nominate multiple judges to the Supreme Court.
Like Marcus said, the fate of numerous equality measures rests on Donald Trump not getting elected.
Featured image via algemeiner.com