In constructing the 2016 Republican platform, delegates seem to be running a contest over who can come up with the silliest, dumbest, most outrageous planks imaginable.
This latest one, which was just presented, is probably the most egregious example of the GOP s love of limited government everywhere except in people s private lives, because morals.Mary Forrester, who is not-surprisingly a delegate from North Carolina, introduced an amendment to rein in use of adult material in a subcommittee meeting on healthcare, education and crime.
She said: Pornography, with his [sic] harmful effects, especially on children, has become a public health crisis that is destroying the life of millions.
We encourage states to continue to fight this public menace and pledge our commitment to children s safety and wellbeing.
Really?A public health crisis?Because adult material is totally on the same level as gun violence and superbugs.The stupid it burns!Before this we must legislate everyone s morality amendment was presented, that particular plank in the GOP s platform was more or less limited to trying to ensure that the internet didn t become a safe haven for sex offenders.
They encouraged vigorous prosecution for sex offenders also, which makes sense.Forrester, though, is a member of the religious right, which means deciding what people can and cannot do in their private lives and crying out, But really, it s for the children!
which is absolute horseshit.
She s also one of the many delegates working their asses off to alienate everyone who isn t Christian and straight by condemning every form of relationship that isn t male-female.She and the Christian group, Concerned Women for America, believe that the widespread availability and use of adult material is just too addicting for young people, and therefore, it s up to the state governments to curb it: It s such an insidious epidemic and there are no rules for our children, Forrester said.
It seems to be for young people, they do not have the discernment and so they become addicted before they have the maturity to understand the consequences.'
Yes, by all means, let s put Prohibition in place for anything to do with sex, too, because it always works.
That s why we have no more alcohol or drugs anywhere at all in this country oh wait.Of course, the GOP is pretty much under the full control of the religious right, which is packed with pseudo-Christians who think it s their god-given duty to tell everyone, everywhere, how to live every aspect of their lives.
They do it under the guise of, It s for the public good, like they are with bathroom laws, but really, they just want everyone to stop with the stuff that makes them feel all icky.
Featured image by Win McNamee/Getty Images