Despite how much the National Rifle Association (NRA) would like everyone to believe that they are doing their best to educate and protect children against gun violence, the pro-gun organization s latest stunt is pretty puzzling.NRA Family has recently released a pair of children s stories but added its very own special twist.
Recreating children s fairy tales like Little Red Riding Hood and Hansel and Gretel, the NRA has taken it upon itself to rewrite the stories and give their heroes guns to defeat their enemies.
After all, hasn t everyone wondered at some point or another what would have happened to Little Red Riding Hood if only her grandmother had been armed with a shotgun?
Finally, this burning question has been answered.Little Red Riding Hood NRA FamilyIn the recreated version of Little Red Riding Hood (Has a Gun), the Big Bad Wolf finds himself out of luck because Little Red has a rifle.
He gives up and tries to eat Grandma instead, but finds himself in the same predicament because she s also packing heat.
Here s a snippet of what the fairy tale looks like with the NRA s special trigger-happy touch: What big teeth you have!
Grandma said, as his fierce jaws came near.
The better to eat you with!
the wolf threatened.The wolf leaned in, jaws open wide, then stopped suddenly.
Those big ears heard the unmistakable sound of a shotgun s safety being clicked off.
Those big eyes looked down and saw that grandma had a scattergun aimed right at him.
He realized that Grandmother hadn t been backing away from him; she had been moving towards her shotgun to protect herself and her home.Hansel And Gretal NRA FamilyThe story of Hansel and Gretel (Have Guns) isn t much better.
In this adapted classic, Hansel and Gretal avoid danger because their parents taught them how to use guns.
Gretel is not only able to hunt down a 10-point buck, but the pair is able to rescue the children being held captive in the witch s cottage all because they re armed.These revamped children s tales certainly send the wrong message to kids, and hopefully parents will be smart enough to know that.
Time and time again, we see that when guns get into the hands of children even when they have been taught how to use firearms things usually go terribly wrong.But the NRA has consistently proven that it doesn t know what s right for children and the organization just doesn t care.
The gun-friendly organization continues to promote its Eddie Eagle GunSafe program, an initiative to help educate kids and prevent accidental gun deaths.
It has been proven extremely ineffective several times, but the NRA refuses to actually do something that will really protect children like support gun control.
The association has consistently opposed and resisted any attempt the Obama administration has tried to make toward gun reform, even as mass shootings have become more common than ever.This is an organization that does not care about America s youth, and these rewritten stories prove it.
These revised tales will only make kids want to use guns MORE, and offer zero education about the dangers and seriousness of handling firearms.Featured image via NRAfamily.org