Glenn Beck stooge Tomi Lahren thinks that citizenship in this country requires that we always stand for the national anthem and respect the flag, even though we have the right to not do either.But the whiny white racist took to Facebook on Monday night to lecture San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick and threaten his constitutionally protected citizenship because he chose to sit during the national anthem on Friday in protest of police brutality against black people.
I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, Kaepernick told the press.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
Kaepernick is following in the footsteps of athletes like Muhammad Ali and Jackie Robinson, and like them, he has been viciously attacked by racists like Lahren for drawing attention to the plight of African-Americans in this country.
Colin, if this country disgusts you so much leave, Lahren said.
I guarantee there are thousands and thousands of people around the world who would gladly take your spot, because those that don t live under this flag are banging on the door to get in, not get out.
Remember that.
Except that Lahren and her conservative allies have actively supported Donald Trump, who has called for building a wall to keep Latinos out of the country and called for banning Muslims from immigrating here.
So when Lahren says thousands of people you gotta wonder exactly what people she is talking about.
All people or just those with white skin who practice Christianity?Lahren then got personal and demonstrated why black voters will never vote Republican.
What s your contribution?
Sitting there like a fool?
Lahren viciously continued.
What s selfish is you, buddy.
And what s your message to black kids, to people of color?
That their biggest contribution to justice and self-fulfillment is to parade around with a chip on their shoulder like a victim?
Basically, Lahren is saying that fighting for civil rights and equality means that black people are playing the victim because people like her think racism doesn t exist in America.And then she lectured about how white people are not to blame for problems in black communities, even though white lawmakers established systemic racism that has lasted for decades in order to keep black Americans at a disadvantage compared to their white counterparts.
Once again, Lahren got personal.
Colin, how dare you sit there and blame white people for the problems (in) the minority communities?After all, aren t you half white?
Didn t two white parents adopt you after yours weren t willing to raise you?
For a racist and horrible country filled with racist and horrible white people, that s really something, isn t it?
Here s the video via Facebook:Of course, Kaepernick never specifically blamed white people for anything in his remarks.
He is simply speaking out against police brutality against black people, something that has become an epidemic in this country.But you won t hear Lahren talk about police brutality.
She thinks the police are totally justified when they shoot black people and has said police will keep killing black people until they stop protesting.This vile piece of trailer park trash has been on the air long enough.
It s one thing to have an opinion, but when that opinion is ignorant and hateful it should not be allowed to spread like the plague to poison other minds.Featured Image: Screenshot