This is mob rule AGAIN!
The best part of this video is when Mayor Mike Signer says that s not the rules He must not have been watching the news lately.
The rules don t apply to these kooks.This is like a bunch of toddlers who are warned over and over to stop misbehaving.
Is this what America wants?
We hope people on all sides see how horrible this is!It s hard to feel sorry for the mayor and city council when they supported this mayhem.
The real culprit in all this is their governor.
Perhaps they should go visit him to ask questions about what he did to turn the rally/ protest into a violent riot.OUR LATEST ON THE VIRGINIA GOVERNOR: Why did the Democrat VA Governor throw gasoline on the fire after violent protests broke out in Charlottesville?
Why did the radical Democrat governor of Virginia LIE about weapons being stashed around the city of Charlottesville prior to the march?
Was he just doing his part as a prominent member of the Democrat Party to help create more racial division in America?
Why did he lie about Virginia police officers being underprepared for the violence and chaos that took place, when police officers claim they were completely prepared?
Was he trying to shine a negative light on the police force assigned to Charlottesville, as part of the Democrat Party s ongoing plan to undermine the credibility of our law enforcement?Last week, Virginia police officers were speaking out, and setting the record straight.
They were not about to remain silent while their governor made up stories to boost his party s race dividing, cop-hating narrative.Republican Rep. Louie Gohmert of Texas is not just sitting around and wondering how the Clinton bestie was able to get away with lying about what happened in Charlottesville, while the media ignored Governor McAuliffe s part in inciting violence.Sunday on Fox News Channel s Fox & Friends Weekend, Gohmert called for a Department of Justice investigation of Gov.
Terry McAuliffe (D-VA) and Charlottesville, VA Mayor Michael Signer for possibly facilitating the violence that took place in Charlottesville earlier this month.Gohmert said, The way forward s not gonna be easy.
And I think the Justice Department needs a full investigation of the governor, of the mayor.
They said in court there would be violence at Charlottesville, and then the witnesses and the photographs show they herded these groups to create violence so they could brag.
We need a Justice Department investigation into Kessler.
You don t just go all of a sudden from having multiracial roommates and a Jewish girlfriend to all of a sudden being a white supremacist that wants to join the Republican party.
There s something very, very wrong in all of this.
He added, Like they were the violence at Trump events, they may have been behind this violence getting started.
They facilitated it, anyway.
-Breitbart