This is what having no freedom of speech looks like This guy is awesome!
I use whatever flag I want because I am free.
I am not a hypocrite, not like all the Cubans marching yesterday [the 2016 May Day march] all those Cubans are hypocrites, he told his detractors.
He went on to praise the U.S. flag as the pride of the Americans and assert, I don t fear the government.
Daniel Llorente is the brave pro-American Cuban dissident who interrupted Monday s May Day parade in Havana, running in front of the marching throngs waving an American flag.
A communist mob attacked him, beating him and dragging him away.The man, identified as Daniel Llorente, has previously waged similar protests against the communist regime of dictator Ra l Castro and has expressed vocally his support for the American government.Video of the incident shows that Llorente took off running in front of the throngs, waving an American flag before the likeness of mass murderer Ernesto Che Guevara in the Plaza of the Revolution, waiting to march just moments before the May Day parade was to begin, shouting anti-government slogans.
A group of men waiting on the sidelines, who have not been identified in reports, restrained, beat, and dragged Llorente away.
Every major Cuban government leader, including dictator Castro, was in attendance.The Miami-based outlet Mart Noticias identified the man as Llorente, a freelance cab driver and dissident, but does not belong to any dissident organizations.
Instead, he has used his American flag to protest on previous occasions by waving it before public congregations.
A year ago, Llorente protested before a crowd awaiting the first American cruise ship s arrival in Havana, the Adonia.
Llorente greeted the ship waving an American flag and shouting Yes we can!
, the famous slogan of President Barack Obama s first presidential campaign.
The government organized a rabble to berate Llorente with racial epithets, and Llorente responded by asserting his freedom.Read more: Breitbart