For the first time in our lives, we are entering an era where we have elected a president who is downright dangerous.
Donald Trump is petty, childish, ignorant, thin-skinned, vengeful, and a wannabe dictator and he will soon be the most powerful man on the planet.
Well, it seems that there are some highly respected people who realize this, and hopefully they can keep us all safe during this travesty of a presidency.
One such person is national security expert and former intelligence officer Malcolm Nance.Nance sat down for a chat with MSNBC s Joy Reid on Saturday morning, and he did not mince words when it came to the dangers of Trump, and what he believes the incoming president-elect strongman has in store for America s top spy agencies.
First, Reid began: Let s just get to Donald Trump s refusal to be able to accept, Malcolm, the conclusions of the intelligence community even when the head of the intelligence agencies are sitting in front of him telling him this happened.
Why in your view will he not just accept it?
Nance s reply was most ominous: I think because, when Donald Trump made his statement on July 27th of last year where he asked for Russia to hack Hillary Clinton and release her e-mails, at that point he went from being an unwitting useful idiot to Russia to actually believing that they were working in his favor.
To admit that now, in the face of all the evidence, he would believe that this would delegitimize his presidency and he will fight to the end to not allow this to become a narrative.
Of course he will.
It s a telltale trait of people with authoritarian tendencies to be unable to have their legitimacy questioned for any reason whatsoever.
Trump will stop at nothing to prevent the media from talking about this.
Hell, given his constant attacks on them, he may even try to use the power of the presidency to prohibit there being any sort of check on him for any reason, but especially when it comes to Russia.Nance continued: I suspect that in two weeks he s going to attempt to cover this all up and even gut the intelligence community.
He is pushing this nation to a constitutional crisis of unprecedented magnitude, because no one has ever worked in the interests of a hostile nation and supporting, to a certain extent, a hostile intelligence service.
Nance is exactly right.
Trump is dangerous.
He is looking to serve his own interests, not those of the United States of America.
Should he continue along this path and we know that he will the people in a position of power to do something about him better damn well do it fast, lest he shred the Constitution and destroy American democracy forever.Watch the video below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture