These conservative Christians are sick.Throughout the 2016 campaign, conservative Christians worshiped Donald Trump as the new Jesus and sold out their so-called Christian values to support a bigoted sexist blowhard narcissist for president.Now right-wing pastor and con artist televangelist Rick Joyner is literally comparing Trump to Jesus disciples.But first, he kissed Trump s ass by claiming that he s a totally different person from the one seen on the campaign trail.Joyner said that Trump is a kinder man than the media portrayed him as, even though Trump was consistently nasty throughout the campaign.
He hurled insults and repeatedly used offensive hateful language to divide the country.
He is nothing more than a bully.Joyner also called Trump tough as nails, but this is plainly ignoring how thin-skinned Trump has been every time he is criticized.Joyner even claimed that tough as nails Trump was near tears when they discussed his plan to deport millions of undocumented immigrants out of the country.
I saw the tears well up in his eyes, Joyner said.
He was about to bust out crying.
But this isn t the Trump we saw all year long.
Trump never cared about these people and he never will.
He never showed a single ounce of compassion for any of them and their families.
So excuse us if we don t take Joyner s word for it that Trump actually has human feeling beyond pettiness and hate.But that s not all.
Joyner also had the gall to call Trump one of the most honest people he s ever known.
And now we definitely know Joyner is full of shit.As Raw Story points out, Fact-checking website Politifact, who fact-checked at least 337 of Trump s statements on the campaign trail and since his election victory, noted that 19 percent of his claims were mostly false, 34 percent were false, and 18 percent were pants on fire.'
In short, Trump is a serial liar and anyone who says otherwise has their head up his ass.But what Joyner said next is something that Christians in particular, should find extremely offensive.
I think if you look at the disciples that Jesus chose, they were all Donald Trump.
Every one of them were Donald Trumps.
Joyner literally just claimed that Jesus chose a bunch of thin-skinned bigoted sexist liars as his disciples.
Seriously.Here s the video via YouTube.Conservatives are truly delusional if they actually think Donald Trump is like Jesus or his disciples.
In fact, they should stop calling themselves Christians altogether.Featured image via Wikimedia