Fox News couldn t wait to try to spin the Quebec mosque attack.
Jumping on early reports, Fox tweeted yesterday, Suspect in Quebec mosque terror attack was of Moroccan origin, reports show.
Well, this turned out not to be the case at all.
In fact, the shooter was actually a white man who had quietly become a Trump-loving right-wing extremist.However, Fox never bothered to take down the post once the truth became clear.
I mean, a right-wing nutjob shooting up a mosque hardly helps convince their poorly educated viewers that every Muslim is a terrorist, now does it?
The Moroccan guy ended up just having been a witness to the deadly attack.
So, the news channel (and I use that word very loosely), tweeted this follow-up statement but failed to delete the original post.
@FoxNews Mosque attack suspect formally charged w/ six counts of murder; Second man cleared, identified as a witness https://t.co/oRzxGHEXDm Fox News (@FoxNews) January 30, 2017Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was not about to let Fox get away with using his nation s tragedy to advance their bigoted agenda.
Trudeau s director of communications, Kate Purchase, tweeted out an entire letter to Fox on Tuesday afternoon demanding that Fox either retract or update the tweet to reflect the suspect s actual identity.
Earlier today I sent an email to @FoxNews about their misleading tweet yesterday.
We will continue to stand up for our citizens (1/3) pic.twitter.com/sGz47PxMcb Kate Purchase (@katepurchase) January 31, 2017(2/3) pic.twitter.com/QLABzidxa4 Kate Purchase (@katepurchase) January 31, 2017(3/3) pic.twitter.com/PosgwkBJqR Kate Purchase (@katepurchase) January 31, 2017Following the scathing letter, Fox finally deleted the tweet which claimed that the shooter had been Moroccan rather than a Trump-loving white guy.
After the tweet was deleted, Trudeau s director of communications thanked them for finally removing the misleading information.Thank you @FoxNews for deleting the tweet.
We appreciate it.
Kate Purchase (@katepurchase) February 1, 2017Mediaite reports that Fox gave them this statement: FoxNews.com initially corrected the misreported information with a tweet and an update to the story on Monday.
The earlier tweets have now been deleted.
We regret the error.
Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images