Chelsea Clinton thought she was quite clever when she cited the story of Lucifer to support her argument for removing confederate statues.
What is it about the Clinton s citing anything to do with faith to support their argument that makes everyone cringe?The story of Lucifer-who rebelled against God-is part of many Christians' traditions.
I've never been in a church with a Lucifer statue.
Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) August 18, 2017We all know that the Clinton s have no boundaries when it comes to making up lies to fit their narrative, but after Chelsea attempted to convince Twitter users that she is a regular church-goer, we couldn t help but remind everyone what Chelsea openly admitted while she was pregnant with her second child:Because every 6-year old makes the decision to leave a church over their views on abortion right?
And every pregnant mother reminisces about leaving the church over their defense of killing unborn babies right?But you left church when you were 6 because you supported abortion, remember?
https://t.co/uNKP979Zly Golden Gnome (@memealchemy) August 18, 2017 Fairy Sweet Dee delivered a left hook to the phony Chelsea, as she reminded her Twitter followers what Democrats really believe: .prob not but I'm sure you would have tried to coerce Mary into aborting since she was a low income unwed mother.
https://t.co/5p4tNjgxlV Sweetest Dee (@ihate_everyone2) August 18, 2017Twitter users really came at Chelsea hard.
Much like her crooked mother, Crooked Chelsea continued to make up stories to prove her point.
Honky Tonk Jew told Chelsea that she doubted she d ever been in a church, period.
:I doubt you've ever been in a church, period Honky Tonk Jew (@HonkyTonkJew) August 18, 2017Chelsea tried desperately to recover after she was outed for saying she left the church when she was six years old because they didn t believe in aborting babies.
She made several attempts to make it appear as though she and her unemployed husband spend a great deal of their time while traveling (likely on the Clinton Foundation s dime).Twice this week.
In addition to be fortunate to attend services at l'Abbaye de Saint-Beno t-du-Luc, we also visited nearby St. Aidan's.
Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) August 18, 2017Several Twitter users provided the all-knowing Chelsea with various photos of Lucifer statues in church:Statue of Lucifer in Holy Trinity Church Marylebone, Westminster pic.twitter.com/BHvZWvbo8D Gay Lynn Westover (@UberPT) August 18, 2017Satan on the bottom.
It isn't odd that you are unaware of authentic Christian iconography.
pic.twitter.com/nsHJ9wPmgw Andrew E. Malone (@dukenaltum) August 19, 2017There are churches & cathedrals throughout the world that depict Satan as he is a necessary part of understanding the history of the Bible pic.twitter.com/0WUbMrjGww (((Darth Kitteh))) (@eloracnasus) August 18, 2017Here s Chelsea, once again talking about her next vacation, where she hopes to visit another church:While I've been to Belgium, I've not visited Li ge.
Hopefully, I will be lucky enough to visit the city & St. Paul's Cathedral in the future Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) August 18, 2017OOPS!
Even one of Chelsea s supporters is forced to set the record straight on Lucifer in the church, especially the church Chelsea claims she d like to visit in the future:@maumota I agree with what you mean.
But there is a Lucifer statue in St Paul' Cathedral in Liege, Belgium.
pic.twitter.com/yokYQSjtig Thomas Jamet (@tomnever) August 18, 2017This black Twitter user gives Chelsea a much needed history lesson: But you're part of a party that supported segregation and slavery.
Should democrats change their name?
Mike Ryals (@MichaelRyals) August 19, 2017The Clinton s, most especially Chelsea and her unemployed husband, have been doing quite a bit of traveling this summer.
Angie suggested that perhaps Chelsea could use some of that Haiti money.
that they stole from the impoverished Haitians after promising donations the Clinton Slush Fund collected from around the world would be used to help them, and instead were primarily used to line their pockets.Maybe you can use some of that Haiti money.
Angie (@kachninja) August 18, 2017And finally, the icing on the cake:OUCH!You were raised by Lucifer in a pantsuit.
JWF (@JammieWF) August 18, 2017And ouch again!
"Check out the #rapist statue of your Dad.
Trust me, he was Lucifer to the women he abused."
@RealJamesWoods TRUMP WORLD (@Trump_World) August 19, 2017When are we taking down your dad's statues?
We can't have statues of a pervert around.
It's discriminatory against sexually abused women.
But-it's-my-turn (@fernandocarnal) August 19, 2017Oh like this one???
Of your #RapistStepFather ??!!!
pic.twitter.com/G2G47uIezK RinosOut2018 (@TXluvsnoBSTrump) August 20, 2017