The NAACP staged a sit-in at the office of Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions on Tuesday to protest his nomination for U.S. attorney general.
As a result, six people were arrested on Tuesday evening.CNN reports that one woman and five men have been arrested, including Cornell William Brooks, the president of the NAACP and the group s communications director Malik Russell.
Mobile police said that they will be charged with criminal trespass in the second degree.The protesters arrived at Sessions Mobile, Alabama office earlier in the day on Tuesday and said that they would continue their protest until either the senator was no longer in the running for attorney general or they were arrested.
In the midst of rampant voter suppression, this nominee has failed to acknowledge the reality of voter suppression while pretending to believe in the myth of voter fraud.
Alabama NAACP President Benard Simelton said on Tuesday afternoon that the 15-20 protesters intended to remain right where they were until Sessions meets our demands or the arrest whichever he chooses.
Sessions, a former Alabama attorney general, was nominated for the position by Donald Trump in November.
No doubt the president-elect was impressed with the senator s astonishingly racist past.
According to the New York Times, Sessions was nominated in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan for a federal judgeship.
But his nomination was rejected by the Republican-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee because of racially charged comments and actions.
The bigoted Alabama senator also said that he thought the Ku Klux Klan was A-OK until I found out they smoked pot.
The NAACP is not alone in their concerns over Sessions nomination.
The Washington Post reports that a letter signed by 1,100 law professors was sent to Congress urging lawmakers to reject Trump s pick for attorney general.
We are convinced that Jeff Sessions will not fairly enforce our nation s laws and promote justice and equality in the United States, the letter states.
Nothing in Senator Sessions public life since 1986 has convinced us that he is a different man than the 39-year-old attorney who was deemed too racially insensitive to be a federal district court judge.
Brooks posted pictures of Tuesday s sit-in to his Twitter account and at times the protest was live-streamed on the NAACP s Facebook page, including the arrests.The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to hold confirmation hearings regarding Sessions nomination on January 10 and 11.Featured image via video screen capture