For years, Fox News hosts have been spewing racist remarks without consequences but apparently, when the racism is directed against their own African-American employees, the conservative network draws a line.Fox has reportedly fired longtime comptroller Judy Slater for making racist comments to black employees after her behavior was brought to the attention of her bosses.According to The Wrap,Slater, who is white and has worked at Fox for 19 years, was accused of asking one African-American employee if all three of her children were fathered by the same man, according to an individual familiar with the matter.
She also referred to African American women as sista and stereotyped African-American employees speech, openly complaining that they mispronounced words, the individual said.In a statement, Fox News condemned Slater s abhorrent behavior and claimed that such behavior is not tolerated by the network.
We take any complaint of this nature very seriously and took the appropriate action in investigating and firing Ms. Slater within two weeks of this being brought to our attention.
There is no place for abhorrent behavior like this at Fox News.
Of course, if Fox News really takes racism seriously, they would oust personalities like Sean Hannity and Bill O Reilly, who have also made racist remarks over the years.Just last October, Hannity literally offered to send President Obama and his family back to Africa even though President Obama and his family are natural-born citizens of the United States.Nobody would have ever said this to any of our presidents who served before Obama, but Hannity did and he should have been fired on the spot.That same month, Bill O Reilly gave the green light to a segment featuring Jesse Watters mocking Asian-Americans.
The segment drew instant outrage and condemnation from multiple Asian-American organizations.
However, O Reilly is still on the air and Watters was promoted.O Reilly and Watters have often teamed up to reach new heights of racism, including a segment in 2015 aimed at shaming homeless black people.Fox host Jeanine Pirro should also be fired for taking racism and hate to a new level.
Not only did she blame Michelle Obama for all the bad things that have happened in the world in a highly disrespectful rant, she told a black Hamilton actor to shut up and stick to hip-hop.So while it s good to see Fox News punishing racists in their ranks, they need to start cleaning house by firing the hosts who spew racism on the air.
If Fox News truly takes racism seriously, that s what they need to do.