Donald Trump s refusal to believe our nation s top intelligence agencies about Russian interference in our election is even causing Fox News to turn on him.For more than a month, Trump has been defending Russia and Vladimir Putin after the CIA and 17 other intelligence agencies concluded that Russia hacked into the DNC and spread propaganda to influence voters to benefit Trump, who actually encouraged Russia to commit espionage against the United States.During a Senate hearing on Thursday, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper testified that Russia committed these crimes against our country.And Fox News host Shep Smith took Trump to the woodshed for continuing to side with Russia over the experts in our own intelligence community.
There were lots of ways Russia tried to sway our vote, Smith said.
[Clapper] testified that Russia used cyber attacks to target the Democratic National Committee we know that.
He said they also used propaganda and disinformation, including fake news.
Fake news that the Kremlin commissioned and generated.
In other words, a pack of lies packaged up as news of the day in an effort to saw the minds of the American electorate.
We don t need a dictionary to figure out what he s saying, Smith declared.
He s saying, Putin knew this, Putin directed this.
This is all about Putin.
Smith pointed out that Trump would rather pal aound with Julian Assange, who if he walked out the door would be arrested, over the $62 billion a year American intelligence agencies and all their leaders.
Then Smith slammed Trumped for hypocritically saying that he respects our intelligence agencies and pondered why he is questioning them.
Apparently not this intelligence, Smith snapped.
He s made that clear.
Because this intelligence says that Vladimir Putin and the Russians tried meddling with the U.S. election to help him, Donald Trump, get elected.
But why?
Does Donald Trump not trust the intelligence agencies?
Or is this a thank you to the Russians for all their help?
We do not know.
But it s one of those.
The bottom line, Smith said, is that there is no doubt none that Russia interfered with America s election.
And that s precisely why Donald Trump is unfit to be president.
By defending Russia, he is defending our enemy and letting them dupe him.
This nation cannot afford to have someone in the White House who refuses to acknowledge that Russia committed an act of war against this country.
It makes us vulnerable to future attacks, attacks that Trump clearly has no problem with as long as they benefit him.Featured image Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images