Damn!
Donald Trump is in need of a private lawyer to help him with the Russian avalanche that s about to come tumbling down upon him and his administration, but at least four top law firms have told Donald Trump, in no uncertain terms, to f*ck off.The law firms are on to Trump.
He is too stubborn to listen to their advice (as his out of control Twitter account proves) and he s a deadbeat, which 50 years of Trump in the business world has proven.Trump is currently represented by an attorney.
Marc E. Kasowitz has been representing Trump in real estate matters for years, and not surprisingly, he s considered quite ruthless.
But he doesn t know his way around Washington, D.C. or around the D.C. press.
Trump had to settle upon Kasowitz after at least four major firms said no to the petulant and out of control BLOTUS.Among them, sources said, were some of the most high-profile names in the legal profession, including Brendan Sullivan of Williams & Connolly; Ted Olson of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher; Paul Clement and Mark Filip of Kirkland & Ellis; and Robert Giuffra of Sullivan & Cromwell.Source: Yahoo.comSome in the firms said there were conflicts with other clients, or that they simply didn t have the time, but, according to Yahoo:A consistent theme, the sources said, was the concern about whether the president would accept the advice of his lawyers and refrain from public statements and tweets that have consistently undercut his position.
The concerns were, The guy won t pay and he won t listen, said one lawyer close to the White House who is familiar with some of the discussions between the firms and the administration, as well as deliberations within the firms themselves.The other problem is that Trump is so polarizing, the firms are afraid they would lose business by defending him.Another lawyer briefed on some of the discussions agreed that the firms were worried about the reputational risk of representing the president.
One issue that arose, this lawyer said, was Do I want to be associated with this president and his policies?
In addition, the lawyer said, there were concerns that if they took on the case, Who s in charge?
and Would he listen?
This doesn t bode well for Trump.
James Comey is set to begin testifying about what he knows about Trump and his Russian connections on Thursday.
Trump is without qualified legal counsel.
His lawyer is drafting a defense strategy, but as with his client, he s unprepared for the job.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images