Senator Bernie Sanders is the most popular senator in the United States and a new poll proves it.
The latest Morning Consult poll to come out has found that, out of all the lawmakers serving in the United States Senate, the Vermont senator has the highest approval ratings among his constituents.The poll revealed that a whopping 75 percent of Sanders constituents approve of his performance.
Only 21 percent of Vermont residents who were polled disapprove of the senator.In contrast to the glowing endorsements Sanders received from his constituents, Mitch McConnell had the lowest approval rating of any U.S. senator.
A measly 44 percent of the Kentucky lawmaker s constituents approved of his performance in office, while 47 percent disapproved of him.
McConnell has earned himself a special achievement, being the only senator to have more of his constituents disapprove of his performance than approve.Sanders and McConnell were also voted the most liked and least liked, respectively, in September of 2016 and have held on to their titles since then.The runners up for the least liked were Sens.
John McCain (R-Ariz.) who came in second with a disapproval rating of 43 percent and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) who was in third place at 40 percent.According to the Morning Consult website, more than 85,000 registered voters were included in weekly online national polling from January 2017 through March 2017 to determine the latest Senator & Governor Approval Rankings.
In each poll, they were asked whether they approved or disapproved of the senator in question and were then asked a series of questions about his/her performance that they could answer with strongly approve, somewhat approve, somewhat disapprove, strongly disapprove, or don t know / no opinion.
This poll does not account for the fact that Bernie Sanders is loved far and wide, not just in Vermont.
After building one heck of a movement during the Democratic presidential primaries, he has remained a powerful voice in politics and maintains a loyal following across the country.Featured image via Scott Eisen/Getty Images