Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway ran into a buzzsaw named Wolf Blitzer on Monday and she was absolutely shredded with facts.The CNN host grilled Conway for being a hypocrite when it comes to women who are accusing Republican nominee Donald Trump of sexual assault versus the women who accused Bill Clinton of sexual assault twenty years ago.
Why do you believe that voters should believe Bill Clinton s accusers, there are several of them, but not Donald Trump s accusers?
Blitzer asked during The Situation Room after pointing out a tweet by Conway saying that she agrees with Hillary Clinton that every survivor of sexual assault deserves to be heard.
Conway responded by basically walking back her tweet and then started ranting about evidence and that belief should only apply if the women take Trump to court.
Of course, the statute of limitations pretty much prevents any meaningful judgment from coming down.
Meanwhile, Bill Clinton s accusers did not file their own claims in court until after they went public in the media.
Juanita Broaddrick, who accused Bill Clinton of raping her, even filed a sworn affidavit claiming that the rape allegations were not true, thus contradicting her own retraction later on.Conway also tried to change the subject, but Wolf didn t let her off the hook, and that led to Conway whining about how little air time Bill Clinton s accusers supposedly received at the time they made their accusations.
These woman got nearly no air time compared to the air time that was given on CNN and other places, Wolf, to the accusers of Donald Trump, she complained.
It s simply unfair and unbalanced.
It s also a complete fabrication.
You see, Wolf Blitzer was a Senior White House Correspondent at the time so he remembers the media circus surrounding the accusations against Clinton and he brutally reminded Conway of that fact and the fact that she should know better since she was there as well.
Let me just point out, I was CNN s Senior White House Correspondent in 1998, 1999, 2000, when these women, including of course Monica Lewinsky, got tons and tons and tons of air time.
You remember those days, I remember those days.
We all remember those days, we went through all of those cases, these women who have come forward.
We gave them a lot of reporting time.
When Blitzer continued by asking Conway if she would encourage Trump s supporters to go to court, she quickly denied doing that.
You know, because Trump would be forced to go to court as well.Conway proceeded to argue that Hillary s conduct toward the women is relevant but then turned around and cheered on Melania Trump for calling her husband s accusers liars and accusing them of fabricating these allegations for financial and political reasons.
In other words, Conway is okay with Melania Trump believing her husband and treating these women like moneygrubbers and liars, but she thinks Hillary Clinton is evil for doing the same thing back in the 1990s?That s some professional hypocrisy Conway is practicing.Here s the video:The bottom line here is that Bill Clinton is not running for president.
Donald Trump IS.Hillary Clinton was First Lady twenty years ago.
And she acted as any wife would in defense of her husband.
But again, Hillary Clinton has never been accused of sexual assault.
Trump IS being accused of sexual assault.
But Trump and his team are pretending that Hillary Clinton s conduct toward her husband s accusers is worse than Trump s conduct toward women and that is a false equivalency that should be blown to smithereens the same way Wolf Blitzer torpedoed Kellyanne Conway s whining about equal air time.Featured Image: Screenshot