The prospect of Donald Trump becoming president just got a whole lot scarier.The Republican nominee has been receiving foreign policy briefings, which almost certainly include information on the places in the world that are hostile towards the United States.But the only solution Trump cares about pursuing is one that would unleash nuclear war upon the globe.According to Trump s once upon a time BFF Joe Scarborough, the Republican nominee repeatedly asked the foreign policy expert briefing him why America just doesn t use nukes to wipe out our enemies or anyone else who disagrees with us.
Three times he asked about the use of nuclear weapons, Scarborough reported on MSNBC on Wednesday morning.
Three times he asked, at one point, If we have them, why can t we use them?
That s one of the reasons he doesn t have foreign policy experts around.
And even more frightening is that if Trump happened to somehow become president, he could order a strike as soon as he is inaugurated without debate or approval from Congress.
The system is designed for speed and decisiveness, it s not designed to debate the decision, former CIA Director Michael Hayden informed Scarborough when asked if Trump could be stopped from starting a nuclear apocalypse.
Hayden also said that Trump being so erratic is also of great concern to national security.Here s the video via Twitter.This seems big: From @Morning_Joe: 3 times during a natsec briefing Trump asked Why can t we use nuclear weapons?
https://t.co/voJ0RlgnCw Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) August 3, 2016This proves that Donald Trump is the greatest threat to our country right now.
He is in position right now to destroy America from within by starting World War III with nuclear bombs.And this isn t the first time Trump has talked about using nuclear weapons.
During an interview with Chris Matthews Trump refused to rule out using nuclear weapons in Europe and the Middle East.
The fact that he is now seriously asking about using nuclear weapons should frighten every American and the entire world.Let s not forget that the Republican Party is responsible for making Trump the leader of their party.
They built this.
So they should be horrifyingly reminded that if we fire nukes at a country, someone is likely going to fire them back at us.Featured Image: CNN