When a Fox News host tried to whine about the way the media has been covering Donald Trump, Mark Cuban dropped a truth bomb on him.Throughout this campaign, the Republican nominee has said increasingly more bombastic statements.
In fact, Trump s rhetoric and behavior are totally unprecedented, which is why the media is covering him the way they do.But Trump has repeatedly complained about the media covering the things he has said and done, which is why he has been blaming them for his low poll numbers and is accusing them of rigging the election against him.And Fox host Howard Kurtz tried to push the Trump line on Sunday, only to be derailed by real billionaire Mark Cuban.
The media coverage of Trump in the last couple of months has been overwhelmingly negative, Kurtz whined.
But Cuban was quick to point out that Donald Trump only has himself to blame for the way the media covers him.
Well, that s of his own making, isn t it?
If you re going to say the things that he says, and if you re going to make the flippant comments that he makes, you re going to get covered.
I mean, all he had to do was shut up nine out of ten times and the coverage would be distinctly different.
That s just not something he s capable of doing.
Cuban is exactly right.
Donald Trump did this to himself by simply opening his mouth and saying and doing things that he shouldn t. He just doesn t want to take responsibility for his words and behavior so he is making the media his scapegoat and his supporters believe him.When Kurtz complained that the media is hostile towards Trump, Cuban once again informed the Fox host Trump knew what he was getting into when he threw his hat into the presidential arena.
Look, on the way up, he was happy to ride the train, right?
He bragged about media coverage, he was excited about it, he loved the live coverage of the primaries and early on the presidential race.
It s a two-edged sword, you know that.
So if you re going to love it on the way up, you got to learn to deal with it.
Here s the video via YouTube.Once again, Mark Cuban is spot on.
Donald Trump has seen a lot of presidential elections in his lifetime so he should know that media coverage of presidential candidates is intense.
And Howard Kurtz should know that the primary job of the media is to cover the candidates because that s what journalism is all about.
It s not that the media s coverage of Trump is negative, it s that Trump has made himself and his campaign negative from the start and he has made no effort to tone it down.So if Trump wants the media to start covering him differently, he ll have to change first.
And that probably won t happen any time soon.Featured Image: Screenshot