Who is this terrorist and why has not yet been arrested for making open threats against our law enforcement officers and firemen?
Those Clinton s they sure do know some interesting characters.
Thank goodness Donald J. Trump or his wife weren t ever caught in the same room with this racist monster!
The media would slaughtered him.
The media has come to expect nothing less from the Clinton s. They ll do anything for a vote.
It s always been their motto.
And no donor is too evil.
If you don t believe me, ask George Soros or some of Hillary s top donors in the nation of Saudi Arabia where women are treated like second class citizens Micah Xavier Johnson, the now-notorious Dallas cop-killer, was one of a handful of online fans of a group which proclaimed, we must kill white police officers across the country!
Shortly after 10 p.m. on Thursday night, when Micah Xavier Johnson shot and killed five Dallas police officers and wounded nine others, Mauricelm-Lei Millere, founder of the African American Defense League hate group, posted a picture on his Instagram account.The caption led with this: We have no alternative!
We must kill white police officers across the country!
The picture was of a meeting with former President Bill Clinton, which Millere alleged occurred in May.At 10:52 a.m. the morning after the shooting, Millere posted the following message to the African American Defense League s Facebook page: WE ARE CALLING ON THE GANGS ACROSS THE NATION!
ATTACK EVERYTHING IN BLUE EXCEPT THE MAIL MAN, UNLESS HE IS CARRYING MORE THAN MAIL!
Micah Johnson was one of just 170 members who follow that Facebook page.Founded in the wake of Ferguson protests in 2014, the African American Defense League is tiny, with possibly only Millere himself as its current leadership, according to the Anti-Defamation League s Center on Extremism.
But Millere and the AADL operate many different front groups, including a Jonesboro, Louisiana church called the Morning Star Baptist Church.The AADL s calls to kill white police officers are not new.
In November of 2015, the AADL s Facebook page said every black person across this nation should find a white police to kill in every state and American/European province around the globe.
He warns followers on a Facebook post to remember that Fireman and the Police are on the same side:After the killing of Alton Sterling by Baton Rouge police and before the terror in Dallas, Millere called for cops blood again.
The Pig has shot and killed Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana!
You and I know what we must do and I don t mean marching, making a lot of noise, or attending conventions, he wrote on Facebook.
We must Rally The Troops!
It is time to visit Louisiana and hold a barbeque.
The highlight of our occasion will be to sprinkle Pigs Blood!
About 36 hours later, Johnson took aim at white police officers from Dallas rooftops.For entire story: The Daily Beast