It s no secret that German Chancellor Angela Merkel is no fan of Donald Trump.
They had a frosty visit when she visited the United States.
He infamously refused to shake her hand for the cameras as is customary in the Oval Office, and even reportedly presented her with some kind of bogus bill for supposed expenses with regards to financial obligations to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).Combine that with the fact that Trump publicly scolded our fellow NATO member nations at the summit in Brussels, and you have a recipe for Chancellor Merkel coming to a very grave conclusion: The United States of America can no longer be trusted to defend its NATO allies and support Article V which states that when one nation is attacked, all nations are attacked as long as Donald Trump is president.
This is an especially striking blow, since the only time Article V of NATO has been invoked is when the U.S. was attacked on September 11, 2001.With all of this in mind, Merkel has made a stunning and historic statement to her fellow member nations of the European Union: Thanks to Trump, America is not to be relied on any longer.
Merkel said of Trump s America: The times in which we could completely depend on others are on the way out.
I ve experienced that in the last few days.
We Europeans truly have to take our fate into our own hands.
Merkel had the same advice regarding Great Britain, though with less harsh words.
She still insists that respectful relationships with Britain and America will be maintained, but told the remaining European Union nations, we have to fight for our own destiny.
Another warning came as a result of Trump s refusal to commit to the Paris Climate Agreement at the G7 Summit.
All of the other six member nations of the agreement reaffirmed their commitment to addressing the problem of climate change, but Trump and thus the United States did not.
Merkel said that this is a very difficult, not to say very unsatisfactory development and a six against one dialogue with regards to a grave world matter.
A matter that, by the way, Trump has previously called a hoax.
Here is the tweet that confirms his crazy views there:The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 6, 2012In short, with Donald Trump as president, the United States of America is no longer the leader of the free world.
Germany is.
Hopefully, Merkel gets re-elected, and can diminish Trump s power on the world stage until he is either impeached and removed from office, resigns, or his term ends.The fate of the free world depends on it.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images