To be a Republican these days, one apparently needs to kiss Russian President Vladimir Putin s ass as well as Donald Trump s.On Wednesday, GOP Rep. Dana Rohrabacher defended Putin s human rights record by pretending that Russia has not committed any human rights violations under Putin s reign, which is total bullshit.Russia s treatment of the LGBT community alone is enough to make the world cringe in horror, but for some reason Republicans are big fans of what Russia is doing.Russia even committed espionage against our country by hacking into our election system and the DNC, but again, Republicans seem to think this is just fine and not a big deal at all.Russia has also made aggressive military moves toward Europe and seized the Crimea from Ukraine.Clearly, Russia is no friend of ours not is Russia a friend to our allies, but Republicans are apparently enamored with Putin.
And that very much concerns Joe Scarborough, who hilariously took Republicans to task on Thursday morning for being infatuated with him.
Putin s a guy that assassinates journalists, Scarborough pointed out on Morning Joe.
He s the guy that shoots down in front of the Kremlin!
political opponents.
He s the guy that locks political opponents into jail for years.
And then he ripped Rohrabacher and the other Republicans who love Putin.
I don t understand, he was always a conservative s conservative.
Are you a RINO if you don t have pictures of Putin on the wall shirtless, and go up and pray to him every night?
Rohrabacher s defense of Putin is even scarier because Donald Trump is seriously considering him for Secretary of State, which would likely make Russia very happy because it means their hope for a puppet in the White House is becoming reality.Here s the video via Twitter.Rep.
Rohrabacher asks @biannagolodryga: Where do you come from?
#morningjoe panel flabbergasted by his remarks https://t.co/kTzTatVBvk Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) December 8, 2016By aligning themselves with Russia, Republicans are selling out the United States and abandoning American values.
They should be ashamed of themselves for defending a man who is basically a dictator and they should be worried that Donald Trump admires Putin.
Trump is already threatening journalists and satirical shows that criticize or make fun of him.
He is already stacking his cabinet with generals, which sends the message that Trump intends to rely on military power instead of diplomacy.
And he has made it clear that he doesn t care about the rights of minorities.
So Trump is a Putin in the making and Republicans are lining up to kiss his ass by kissing Putin s.Featured Image: Photo of Donald Trump by Joe Raedle/Getty Images.
Photo of Vladimir Putin by Thierry Chesnot/Getty Images