Wow!
This 21 year old Texan woman recently penned a letter to the Waco Tribune Herald In Waco, TX.
She s been worried about her future with the massive increase in social welfare and government programs, so she thought she d offer some great, common sense solutions.
Her ideas were too good to keep to herself, so she decided to send her letter to the local paper.
Here it is:PUT ME IN CHARGE:Put me in charge of food stamps.
I d get rid of Lone Star cards; no cash for Ding Dongs or Ho Ho s, just money for 50-pound bags of rice and beans, blocks of cheese and all the powdered milk you can haul away.
If you want steak and frozen pizza, then get a job.Put me in charge of Medicaid.
The first thing I d do is to get women Norplant birth control implants or tubal ligations.
Then, we ll test recipients for drugs, alcohol, and nicotine.
If you want to reproduce or use drugs, alcohol, or smoke, then get a job.Put me in charge of government housing.
Ever live in a military barracks?
You will maintain our property in a clean and good state of repair.
Your home will be subject to inspections anytime and possessions will be inventoried.
If you want a plasma TV or Xbox 360, then get a job and your own place.In addition, you will either present a check stub from a job each week or you will report to a government job.
It may be cleaning the roadways of trash, painting and repairing public housing, whatever we find for you.
We will sell your 22-inch rims and low profile tires, your blasting stereo and your speakers.
Don t worry, we ll contribute that money toward the common good.
Before you complain that I ve violated someone s rights, realize that all of the above is voluntary.
If you want our money, accept our rules.
Before you say that this would be demeaning and ruin their self-esteem, consider that it wasn t that long ago that taking someone else s money for doing absolutely nothing was demeaning and might actually lower the recipient s self-esteem.If we are expected to pay for other people s mistakes we should at least attempt to make them learn from their bad choices.
The current system rewards them for continuing to make bad choices.
This new and improved system will reward them for making a contribution to society