If the halting of Donald Trump s disgusting Muslim ban was any indication, Trump is quickly learning that the American people will do whatever it takes to stop his tyranny from infringing upon the true values of America and the constitutional rights of every citizen.Recently, the Trump administration tried to move forward with an executive order attacking LGBTQ rights, and was forced to drop it after America responded with an onslaught of backlash and criticism.
Facing immediate public outcry, the White House released a statement: President Donald J. Trump is determined to protect the rights of all Americans, including the LGBTQ community.
President Trump continues to be respectful and supportive of LGBTQ rights, just as he was throughout the election.
The President is proud to have been the first ever GOP nominee to mention the LGBTQ community in his nomination acceptance speech, pledging then to protect the community from violence and oppression.
The executive order signed in 2014, which protects employees from anti-LGBTQ workplace discrimination while working for federal contractors, will remain intact at the direction of President Donald J. Trump.
Of course, the statement makes zero mention of the fact that Trump might create another executive order that would allow for workplace discrimination.
However, Trump s draft of his halted executive order would have allowed employers to fire workers based on their sexual orientation, and would have allowed federally funded adoption and social service agencies to discriminate against the LGBT community.
Federal employees would have also been able to refuse service to LGBT individuals.
With that being said, it s hilarious that the White House s statement talks about how respectful and supportive Trump is when it comes to LGBT rights.
But regardless, we re just fortunate that he s been stopped in his tracks.Trump s tyranny is terrifying, but one small silver lining that shouldn t be forgotten is the fact that he is so thin-skinned and sensitive.
His narcissism and desperate need for approval make him more easily swayed to public pressure, and public protests bother him more than anything else.
The media was swift in reporting Trump s executive order draft before he could sign it, and the public worked just as fast to express outrage.
This takes away significant power from Trump, as it is truly humiliating for him to receive so much backlash on the world stage.
We need to keep this momentum going, and build upon the resistance we ve already seen because it is working.Featured image via Pool / Getty Images