The Tribeca Film Festival is one of the most respected artistic events in the film industry.
However, it has been embroiled in controversy as Robert DeNiro and other organizers had allowed a film into the festival that pushes anti-vaxxer nonsense.
DeNiro had originally insisted that the film should be shown, in order to show alternative viewpoints regarding the vaccination debate.
However, after the public was rightfully outraged that DeNiro was giving credibility to these anti-science viewpoints, he released the following statement, saying that the film would not be shown: My intent in screening this film was to provide an opportunity for conversation around an issue that is deeply personal to me and my family.
But after reviewing it over the past few days with the Tribeca Film Festival team and others from the scientific community, we do not believe it contributes to or furthers the discussion I had hoped for.
Of course, the people behind this piece of propaganda are screaming that its removal from the film festival is censorship.
Their statement on the development says: To our dismay, we learned today about the Tribeca Film Festival s decision to reverse the official selection of Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe.
It is our understanding that persons from an organization affiliated with the festival have made unspecified allegations against the film, the statement continued.
We have just witnessed yet another example of the power of corporate interests censoring free speech, art, and truth.
Tribeca s action will not succeed in denying the world access to the truth behind the film Vaxxed.
The film is directed by none other than Andrew Wakefield, the doctor who started the whole anti-vaxx movement with a bogus study in 1998.
His so-called research has been completely discredited, but the damage has been done.
The anti-vaxx movement is stronger than ever, and is a major public health risk.
This isn t about censorship; it s about protecting the lives and health of the public.I am very glad that Robert DeNiro did the right thing and pulled this ridiculous film from the film festival.
This movement does not need anymore juice than it already has.Featured image via Frenchculture.org