Well, it s happening.
If you voted your conscience or refused to support a criminal who is not an actual criminal, voted for Jill Stein if you just couldn t handle a Hillary Clinton presidency because reasons, cast protest votes for Donald Trump, or against his wishes Bernie Sanders, you now get to say that you own a piece of history.
That s right, for the low, low price of your dignity, you managed to buy yourself a Donald Trump presidency the one where healthcare is stripped from the most vulnerable Americans, and women s health services go the way of slavery (except if 20% of Donald Trump voters had their way, slavery would make a comeback).In the end, while Hillary Clinton took a historic, almost three million vote lead over Trump, it all came down to about 78,000 votes in three states 44,292 in Pennsylvania, 22,748 in Wisconsin, and 10,704 in Michigan.
To put it in perspective for conscience voters, quadrennial fake liberal hero, Jill Stein, earned herself 49,901 in Pennsylvania, 31,072 in Wisconsin, and 51,493 in Michigan.Stein and supporters said repeatedly that their goal was to defeat Hillary Clinton, and they did all while helping Donald Trump win.
Now the causes they, like many of the rest of us, champion, are in danger.On Thursday, the GOP announced the beginning of what will almost assuredly be a glorious, thousand-year Reich, when they laid out their plans to gut Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood in the same bill.
The Hill reports that the situation is exactly as bad as was predicted by those establishment stooges who had the gall to vote for the woman who had the best chance to defeat Donald Trump, rather than sling diapers at the wall for almost a year and join in the propagation of untrue right-wing propaganda:Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said Thursday that defunding Planned Parenthood will be included as part of a bill to repeal ObamaCare.Ryan said cutting off federal funds to the organization will be included in a reconciliation bill that also repeals the core of ObamaCare.
The reconciliation process prevents Democrats from launching a filibuster against the measure, meaning Republicans won t need 60 votes to win on defunding.
Planned Parenthood legislation will be in our reconciliation bill, Ryan said, without providing any more details.Currently, Republicans would be hard-pressed to lay out any actual plan to replace Obamacare because there isn t one.
But that isn t stopping them from undoing the good work of Barack Obama s administration.
Their goal over the next four years will not be to help you or anyone else.
Their goal will be the same as it was when Obama was first elected to erase the legacy of our first African-American President, and to undo any good that he has done.
Isn t that, after all, the true meaning of Make America Great Again?
The worst part is that if we, the people who are supposed to be the adults in the room, had simply united behind the most qualified candidate, we could have prevented this.Featured image by Scott Olson via Getty Images