In an open letter to President Obama, legendary guitarist Carlos Santana praised the State of the Union Address and Obama s leadership before taking a significant shot at Donald Trump.Santana posted the letter on Facebook, but it has since been removed, perhaps due to so much hateful criticism from conservative fans of the music icon.He begins by telling President Obama how inspired he was by his speech the night before and thanked him being a true leader who strives to heal and unite the world.
Santana then turned his thoughts to Donald Trump by telling the story of how the billionaire Republican presidential wannabe reminds him of a poop-throwing ape he once saw at the San Diego Zoo when he was a child.
Santana concluded by urging leaders to strive for peace instead of what Trump and other Republicans stand for.Here is the full letter via Clutch Magazine.Dearest Mr. President Obama,I witnessed your speech last night.
I am deeply inspired, encouraged and profoundly grateful for your words.
Your consciousness soars with clarity and divine purpose.
Your articulated your views, subjects and comments with compassion.
You made me feel how blessed we are to share life with your leadership.
Even more than any other President I have witnessed (including JFK).
Your words of spirit and global healing, unity and harmony for the betterment of the world .not just the USA.
I pray for your continued safety for you and your family.
Regarding Mr. Trump .I remember when I was a child living in Tijuana I often crossed the border to visit the San Diego Zoo.
I would hear loud screams and commotion in the distance.
As I came closer to the sound, I noticed everyone was staring at an ape in a glass cage.
The ape was staring back at the crowd that gathered.
With an angry look of disgust, the ape defecated in his hand and threw it at the crowd.
This is what I hear when Mr Trump speaks.
He lacks consciousness as well as integrity.
The Republicans and Mr Trump are selling hate and fear.
That is the opposite of what our Country stands for.
Let s go forward with light and love into the future.
Global Peace is within our grasp in this lifetime.
Pull humanity up, take the high road and look at the aerial view.
Peace on Earth now, not later.With deep respect and admiration, Carlos SantanaThis is an epic letter by Santana, who hails from Mexico and is a member of the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.
He must have been truly moved by what President Obama had to say and it must have felt especially good to smack down Donald Trump after listening to him offend the Mexican people over and over again since he announced his campaign for the presidency.If the Hispanic community shares Santana s feelings about Trump, the GOP could be in for a world of hurt on Election Day.Featured Image: Wikimedia