Did anyone else think it was the ultimate irony that Obama came out and declared Trump to be unfit to be president?
Here s a great piece by Jack Cashill that is a letter from Trump to Obama regarding the comment: Please read and share because THIS is the Clinton dirty laundry list to send to your Trump doubters!Jack Cashill drafts letter from Trump to Obama about his candidate .Dear President Obama:It has come to my attention that you have deemed me, Donald Trump, unfit to be president of the United States.Yet here you are, championing Hillary Clinton, the most conspicuously corrupt aspirant to the presidency since Aaron Burr.
And I m unfit?Your candidate, as you know, was called out by FBI Director James Comey before Congress for misleading the public about sending classified documents through email, using a single device to send them, returning classified documents to the State Department and deleting work-related emails.
And I m unfit?This same candidate was called out by the Washington Post just this past Sunday for lying four Pinocchio s worth to Fox News Chris Wallace about Comey s comments.
And I m unfit?
Your candidate, as Comey strongly implied, would not be eligible for minimum security clearance were she not president.
And I m unfit?In the week before the FBI cleared your candidate, your attorney general Comey s boss had a wildly inappropriate clandestine meeting with the candidate s husband.
And I m unfit?Less than two weeks ago, WikiLeaks revealed that your candidate colluded with the DNC to rig the primary process against Bernie Sanders.
And I m unfit?Your candidate lied to the families of those killed at Benghazi does it get any lower than that?
telling them that that an online anti-Islam video provoked a mob to attack the U.S. mission in Benghazi.
And I m unfit?To sell the lie, your candidate had the videomaker an American citizen imprisoned for a year.
And I m unfit?As Peter Schweizer reported in his 2015 book, Clinton Cash, During Hillary s years of public service, the Clintons have conducted or facilitated hundreds of large transactions with foreign governments and individuals.
Some of these transactions have put millions in their own pockets $136.5 million to be precise.
And I m unfit?According to the Washington Post, the Clintons left the White House in 2001 with an unprecedented $190,027 worth of gifts received over the last eight years.
After the Post revelation, the Clintons had to cough up $86,000 for items that were actually government property and returned $48,000 worth of furniture.
And I m unfit?Leftist Christopher Hitchens said of the your candidate in his indispensable book, No One Left to Lie To, Like him, she is not just a liar but a lie; a phony construct of shreds and patches and hysterical, self-pitying demagogic improvisations.
And I m unfit?In 1999, to facilitate your candidate s run for the U.S. Senate in New York, President Clinton sprung 16 unrepentant Puerto Rican terrorists.
Resolutions condemning the president s action were passed with a vote of 95-2 in the Senate.
And I m unfit?Says Linda Tripp of your candidate, Hillary was not only aware of Monica Lewinsky, she ensured that Monica was removed from the White House and in the end went from being a lack luster first lady with unimpressive approval numbers to wronged wife.
Of course, Hillary claimed to have known nothing about the affair.
And I m unfit?By the way, your candidate s husband was impeached for lying under oath and obstructing justice.
And I m unfit?After the 1994 Democratic implosion, it was your candidate who called in Dick Morris to get her husband re-elected.
To fund Morris TV campaigns, she helped orchestrate what Sen. Fred Thompson called the most corrupt political campaign in modern history.
And I m unfit?According to the Thompson committee, your candidate and her co-conspirators took advantage of minority groups, pulled down all the barriers that would normally be in place to keep out illegal contributions, pressured policy makers, and left themselves open to strong suspicion that they were selling not only access to high-ranking officials, but policy as well.
And I m unfit?To hoover up cash from corporate insiders, your candidate and her husband sold seats on foreign trade missions.
In the process, they ruthlessly exploited the deeply compromised Commerce Secretary Ron Brown, the one African-American in the Cabinet.
Although sick of being a mother-f -ing tour guide for Hillary Clinton, he went reluctantly to Croatia to cut a deal between the neo-fascists who ran the country and the Enron Corporation.
Look it up.
He never came back.
And I m unfit?One major reason for the Democratic electoral collapse in 1994 was your candidate s mismanagement of a massive health care task force.
Said the liberal New Yorker of the illegal decision to keep task force meetings secret, It is hard to believe that this decision did not emanate from Hillary Clinton it was in keeping with her natural bent.
She trusted few, and secrecy was a means of maintaining control.
And I m unfit?In a 1996 New York Times op-ed titled Blizzard of Lies, the usually restrained William Safire famously called your candidate a congenital liar for her involvement in the commodity trading scandal, the obstruction of justice in the investigation of Vince Foster s death, the Whitewater affair and two grubby in-house scandals known as Travelgate and Filegate.
And I m unfit?
We reached out to them, your candidate told 60 Minutes in 1992 of the women rumored to have dallied with or been assaulted by her husband.
Among the women reached out to was Sally Perdue, who was told by a Clinton goon that if she talked to the media, He couldn t guarantee what would happen to my pretty little legs.
And I m unfit?
Hillary tried to silence me, Juanita Broaddrick wrote of your candidate.
She had reason to keep Broaddrick quiet.
Her husband had raped Broaddrick in a Little Rock hotel room.
And I m unfit to be president, really?I may be seriously imperfect, Mr. President, but I have never compromised the nation s secrets, sent an innocent man to prison, or enabled a rapist.As to what gives you the right to question my fitness, that I will save for another day.Via: Conservative Treehouse