It s hard for millennials to escape the leftist propaganda.
Progressivism virtually front and center in almost every aspect of their lives.
From progressive academia to a radical leftist agenda in the entertainment industry, it s really hard for our children to find a safe place where they re not being fed a leftist agenda.
Millennials love Law and Order SUV because they hate cops:While SVU is lurid and addictive and GIF-ready and all the other things millennials purportedly love, I think there s another reason for our adoration.
The truth is, outside the Law & Order universe, young people tend to hate the shit out of cops.
The stereotype of long-haired, rebellious youths flipping off pigs of the sixties might sound time-worn, but there s clearly something to it: An annual Gallup poll shows that 18-29 year-olds consistently trail behind older adults in reporting a great deal or quite a lot of confidence in the police.
For us, the police force exists solely as a symbol of violence and racism and corruption, and news stories about NYPD rapists and stop-and-frisk and pepper-spraying Occupy Wall Street protesters do little to indicate otherwise.From Washington Post interview:Last night s episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit on NBC aimed to weed through the messy and emotional aftermath of one of these shootings focusing on what happens after New York police officers, in desperate search for a rape suspect, shoot and kill an unarmed black college student who happens to match the description of the suspect.
(It s not the first time the series, which is in its 17th season, has pulled inspiration for a story line from the headlines.
)https://youtu.be/zTqTfSpPfYAWhy write an episode based around a police shooting, and why on SVU ?Something seems to be going on in the nation right now, and it seems that we re looking at, at least anecdotally, an epidemic of cops shooting unarmed people, often unarmed black men, but not exclusively black men.We ve just seen a spate of incidents in which that has been the case, and we have a police show.
One of the things that is frustrating to me is that too few shows are tackling the tough issues.
There are way more shows about zombies than about what s going on in our judicial system.
Very few shows are allowed to get away with this right now.Our mantra is that we shed light on the darker corners of society.
Police shootings of unarmed people is something that needs to be discussed.
Via: Washington PostLaw and Order SVU promotes show on Twitter:https://twitter.com/nbcsvu/status/654310751759298560