In one of the best takedowns of Donald Trump yet, John McCain s granddaughter did NOT hold back as she explained why she is voting for Hillary Clinton in November.Caroline McCain has been against Donald Trump since last July when he mocked her grandfather for getting captured by the enemy during the Vietnam War.
I like people who weren t captured, Trump said about John McCain, who was tortured to the point where he is incapable of lifting his arms above his shoulders.John McCain is a war hero and Donald Trump insulted him and every other American veteran who has ever been a POW.Fast-forward a year later and Trump is now the Republican nominee, and Caroline McCain has made her decision to go from being #NeverTrump to declaring her support for Hillary Clinton.In an amazing post on Medium, Caroline McCain took Donald Trump to the woodshed.Following a line of other right-wing wacko birds, Trump insulted a man I esteem and love, a man who has risked his life in service of his country.
He insulted my grandfather and attacked the very qualities loyalty, bravery and selflessness that he and countless other POWs embody.
He mocked the sacrifice many have given and the anguish families have endured when their heroes have suffered alone miles away.My grandfather responded with grace and forgiveness as only a man who was held in captivity for years can.
But I ve been nursing a grudge ever since.
Trump s statement, in my view, is unforgivable, and speaks to the kind of man he is: a coward who has never faced danger in his life, an insecure brat who shirked duty for comfort, and a man who is wholly unfit to serve as commander-in-chief.Indeed, while John McCain was suffering in Vietnam for his country, Donald Trump dodged the draft and never saw a day of military service in his entire life.And Caroline McCain wasn t done ripping him a new one.He lacks the temperament and the wisdom to navigate our ever-increasingly dangerous world.
Policy decisions aside, being President of the United States requires a steady hand and never more so than now.
A competent commander-in-chief must respond to threats to the Republic, but Trump only responds to threats to his ego.She goes on to trace her journey to becoming a Hillary supporter, and one of the moments that helped her make her decision was when President Obama spoke at the DNC Convention earlier this week.He could have pointed blame at the GOP for enabling Trump s rise.
He could have taken party leadership to task for falling in line behind Trump.
But he didn t. He instead presented the election as a choice between democracy and demagogue.
He gave Republicans the option to abandon Trump rather than blaming them for his rise.There are so many things I disagree with President Obama on, but this is a moment I will always respect him for.
And maybe this was the moment I needed to fully own the choice I would have to make in November.McCain then ripped the Republican Party for betraying her and others by supporting a racist homophobic misogynist who only cares about himself.The party chose for its king a demagogue who wears a wig instead of a crown, and a celebrity in pursuit of fame and fortune rather than service and sacrifice Loyalty to party can never trump loyalty to country.
And loyalty to party means nothing when the party has been poisoned.And because the Republican Party is poisoned, Caroline McCain wants Trump to lose by a landslide in November to force the GOP to change, which is why she is voting for Hillary.I wanted a different candidate.
I wanted a New American Century.
I wanted an election with good ideas and good discourse.
I wanted to win.
But now I want my party to change.
I want fresh leaders, of good character, in both parties.
And I want Donald Trump to be humiliated in November and driven far from the political arena for the rest of his life.So I m not a Democrat at least not yet.
But this year, I m With Her.The Republican Party should be very afraid right now.
Because if John McCain s own conservative granddaughter is willing to vote for Hillary to defeat Trump, surely there are many other Republicans out there who are willing to do the same.Featured image via screenshot