The presidential debate schedule is already out, and, true to form, Donald Trump is already throwing a livid fit about it.
He doesn t like the fact that two of the debates are scheduled on the same nights as NFL games, which would be understandable if he wasn t busy saying Hillary Clinton is responsible for that.
However, he crossed a major line in his accusations, and it has already come back to bite him hard.In an interview with ABC News, he made the following ridiculous claim: Well, I ll tell you what I don t like.
It s against two NFL games.
I got a letter from the NFL saying, This is ridiculous.
Why are the debates against cause the NFL doesn t wanna go against the debates.
Cause the debates are gonna be pretty massive, from what I understand, OK?
And I don t think we should be against the NFL.
Now, aside from the obvious questions of why the NFL would be sending Trump a letter about this, rather than the Commission on Presidential Debates, it appears that this is one of Trump s most blatant lies yet.
CNN s Brian Stetler says the NFL responded by disavowing any contact with Trump at all: While we d obviously wish the debate commission could find another night, we did not send a letter to Trump.
And there it is.
Most politicians who are given to lies will at least attempt to lie in such a way that it s hard to prove, even with a statement from whomever or whatever they re lying about.
Not Trump!
No he s so important that it doesn t matter that the debate schedule has been in place for a year already.
Agencies like the NFL will communicate to him first, because he s just that crucial to the whole process.Why is this significant?
Because it s not a gaffe.
A gaffe is when a politician, pundit, or someone else heavily involved in politics accidentally lets loose what s really on their minds.
Romney s 47 percent comment four years ago is a gaffe.
Trump, however, commits gaffes and also tells outright lies.
And because of that, it s virtually pointless to fact-check him, because even with a statement from whoever he s lied about, he ll double down on it.If nothing else, this lie, while seemingly stupid, provides a deep look into the psyche of the man who is Donald Trump.
He ll say whatever he wants he doesn t care.
And if the NFL wants to take him down a notch or twelve by denying they even communicated with him, then he ll make sure they re sorry for making him look like the fool that he is.
Or he ll ignore them altogether.His fa ade is coming down, and only the truly brainwashed voters, along with the white supremacist masses he s attracted, remain willfully blind to his lack of honesty.
The NFL is a major organization.
They just made Trump look very bad indeed.Featured image by Regine Mahaux/Getty Images