North Korea has been launching intermediate range ballistic missiles into the Sea of Japan for awhile now, and, of course, it would be a good idea for us to have an administration that will actually speak out against this potential threat.
Yet the Trump administration, for all Trump s bluster about Obama s weakness on Syria, just issued a statement on their latest launch that should make everyone s jaws drop.
Rex Tillerson literally just said: North Korea launched yet another intermediate range ballistic missile.
The United States has spoken enough about North Korea.
We have no further comment.
?
This is Rex Tillerson s statement on North Korea s missile launch pic.twitter.com/S2xAgZAGlX Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) April 4, 2017That s the best he can come up with?
Does Tillerson have no idea what he s doing?
Probably not.
No, North Korea just fired a missile into the Sea of Japan, which one of our own allies considers a threat.
Back in February, they launched a missile into the same area and Trump had a pow-wow over it with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Mar-a-Lago, prompting tons of questions about the security of the place.
Now we have no comment at all.Why?It s possible it s because Trump s both hoping and expecting China to take care of the problem so he doesn t have to.
In fact, he sent Chinese president Xi Jinping a message that the clock has run out on North Korea, and if they decide not to help, it won t be good for anyone.
The funny thing is he s all bluster here.
He s being a peacock about it and hoping that China will see his feathers and decide it s in their best interests to help us with Pyongyang in ways they ve never done before.And then we won t have to do very much.
We can t take unilateral action against North Korea and hope that China will fall in line, because we can t really take such action.
China knows that.
So what s Tillerson doing here?
Making Trump look as weak as rotted wood on North Korea now.But Trump will use a gas attack on innocents in Syria as an excuse to blast Obama for being too weak.
Good job being a world leader, Trump.
You and Tillerson sure showed them.Featured image by Olivier Douliery-Pool via Getty Images