Conservatives are damned liars and they need to be called out every time they claim Donald Trump s campaign wasn t racist.Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, Donald Trump constantly winked and nodded at white supremacists and white nationalists to the point where they threw their support to his campaign and starting showing up at his rallies.In fact, the only group of voters that Donald Trump did not insult or denounce were white racists while he consistently spewed hateful and discriminatory rhetoric at Latinos, black people, and Muslims.It is common knowledge that racism was a key part of Trump s vicious campaign.
But Trump supporter Betsy McCaughey repeatedly claimed otherwise and actually had the gall to accuse Democrats of being the real racists during a Saturday appearance on CNN with Democratic counterpart Symone Sanders, who is black.
I think the campaign has been very gracious in victory, McCaughey claimed.
But what disturbs me the most is to see the Democratic Party leaders and spokespeople like Symone are still making false accusations of racism in fact, behaving like racists themselves.
One reason Donald Trump won is Americans are sick and tired of reverse racism and that s what they heard from Hillary Clinton at the beginning.
Except that Hillary Clinton s message was about coming together and building a stronger America for everyone.
Trump, meanwhile, questioned President Obama s place of birth for years, accused a judge of being biased because he s a Mexican, repeatedly condoned beatings of black protesters at his rallies, and refused to denounce white supremacists among many other examples.McCaughey ranted on about how Democrats are to blame for racism in this country, only to be absolutely BURIED by Sanders.
We ve got to cut this out, Sanders said.
Betsy, people of color in America are victims of systemic racism and I think it s really important to note that while the Trump campaign, yes, they won.
Donald Trump is going to be the next president, there are still some real underlying issues.
The rhetoric that the campaign elevated, these fringe elements that they brought into the mainstream.
These are the things that people in America are still dealing with.
The Trump campaign has to at least own that so we can move forward.
And the truth-bomb that Sanders dropped made McCaughey lose her shit to the point that she actually directed a racist term at Sanders and instantly proved Sanders point.
I don t appreciate these accusations of racism because they are untrue and the only reason that people like Symone constantly label their opponents as racist is because they don t have an argument they can win on the merits.
Again, Symone Sanders is a black woman, so when McCaughey said people like Symone, it was instantly recognized as racist.
Racists often use the term you people as a racial slur in order to dehumanize their opponent and blame an entire class or race of people for something.Even Sanders pointed it out.
Betsy just You people-d me.
Thank you.
Thus, Sanders won the argument and made McCaughey reveal herself as a racist on national television.Here s the video via YouTube.McCaughey is also dead wrong about Trump being gracious in victory.
He has been anything but gracious.
In fact, he s rubbing it in by going on an unprecedented victory tour.
If President Obama had done that in 2012, conservatives would have thrown temper tantrums across the country and hurled the N-word at will.The bottom line is that Donald Trump did NOT win this election by having better policies.
He won because he energized the racists in this country to vote for him.
And the fact that he picked people like Jeff Sessions and Steve Bannon for key positions in his administration speaks volumes about how racist he is, especially since the KKK and white nationalists overwhelmingly approve of those two choices.Featured image via screenshot