Michele Bachmann is easily one of the craziest people to ever grace the halls of Congress.
She spent her entire tenure being a complete embarrassment and disgrace to the institution which she served, spending more time ranting about abortion, religion, and gay people than actually, you know, trying to govern.
All sane people were giddy with glee when she decided not to run for re-election.
Shortly thereafter, she faded into the bowels of the more humiliating and shameful parts of America s history, right where she belongs.Well, with the death of extreme right-wing Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, former Congresswoman Bachmann has emerged from her vampire crypt to tell the world just how much she admired the man.
She sent out a tweet just hours after his death that read: God Bless Anthony Scalia, finest Sup Ct Justice RIP God bless Anthony Scalia, finest Sup Ct Justice RIP Michele Bachmann (@MicheleBachmann) February 13, 2016There s just one problem with that: his name is Antonin Scalia, not Anthony.
This nitwit can t even get that much right, yet, after that major f*ck up, Bachmann went on to go on a tirade about who should replace the deceased Justice, and, of course, only other extreme right-wingers are even a little bit acceptable to her.
Here is that series of insane tweets:Obama must appoint a constitutional originalist to replace Justice Scalia, nothing else will do.
Michele Bachmann (@MicheleBachmann) February 13, 2016She even had the gall to compare Scalia s insane ramblings to William Shakespeare s masterpieces.Reading a Scalia dissent was akin to reading a Shakespearean sonnet.
RIP Michele Bachmann (@MicheleBachmann) February 13, 2016Now Scalia belongs to the ages.
Let's add his profile to historical lawgivers which surround the US House chamber.
Michele Bachmann (@MicheleBachmann) February 13, 2016Scalia will be read and quoted 200 years hence, if America survives.
RIP Michele Bachmann (@MicheleBachmann) February 13, 2016He ll be quoted alright, just not in the way that you think.
Thank goodness you re no longer in the business of making our laws.Featured image from AI Archives