Two pasty white Republican men decided that out of every problem that exists in their state of Illinois, the biggest concern for lawmakers should be focusing on actively harming the lives of single mothers and children.John D. Cavaletto and Keith Wheeler, filed a bill HB6064 to deny any form of state aid to a child, if that child does not have a father s name on their birth certificate.
The proposed law makes an allowance for another family member to be substituted who will provide financial support for the child if a father can t or won t be listed.A portion of the bill reads as below: Provides that if the unmarried mother cannot or refuses to name the child s father, either a father must be conclusively established by DNA evidence or, within 30 days after birth, another family member who will financially provide for the child must be named, in court, on the birth certificate.
Provides that absent DNA evidence or a family member s name, a birth certificate will not be issued and the mother will be ineligible for financial aid from the State for support of the child.
Source: ChicagoistSo basically what Republicans are trying to do, it seems, is completely abolish all welfare by either saying you don t need it (because you have a financial benefactor listed) or you don t get any because you don t have someone to pay for your child s needs.
What the hell kind of logic is that?This is not the first time Republicans have attempted to actively sabotage the lives of women and children who are in the most desperate of need.
Last year, State Rep. Jeanne Ives made remarks along a similar theme during a budget-related debate: You need to have verifiable need.
You better know who the daddy is and whether or not he can afford that child and whether or not the taxpayers should be funding that or if there s actual child support he can provide.
Source: ChicagoistA verifiable need like not having a known father to ask for help?
Is this real?
It s so comically absurd that it literally satirizes itself.If there is a bright side to this insult to women and humanity, it s the fact that the bill will likely die a quiet and quick death in the house due to the Democratic supermajority that Illinois currently has to protect it from these evil people.Think about it this way.
Republicans would outlaw all contraception and abortion, even in cases of rape.
A woman undergoes that heinous assault, and she can t get an abortion because Republicans love life too much to let her make that choice on her own.
After 9 months of getting no help with prenatal care or the hospital bill when she gives birth, Republicans would immediately deny that child they protected from abortion any form of state assistance for the next 18 years.Pro-life, indeed.Featured image via Youtube