As Addicting Info reported here, Donald Trump s scheduled rally in Chicago, Illinois was shut down after thousands of protesters showed up to take a stand against the republican candidate s politics of hate.Video posted to social media shows the crowd inside the University of Illinois Chicago pavilion bursting into cheers and jeers, as an announcer broke the news that Mr. Trump would not be making an appearance at the rally, saying: Mr. Trump just arrived in Chicago and after meeting with law enforcement has determined that for the safety of tens of thousands of people that have gathered in and around the arena, tonight s rally will be postponed until another date.
Trump repeated the statement later, during an interview with MSNBC s Chris Matthews.
After speaking with law enforcement, I just thought it would be a wise thing for us to postpone this rally.
But Chicago police say that Trump s statement is not true.The Chicago Police Department released a formal statement regarding the cancelled rally, saying: CPD did not meet with the Trump campaign prior to the cancellation of the event, nor did we make any suggestion that the event be cancelled.
According to Chicago Police Interim Supt.
John Escalante, the Chicago police previously assured Trump that they had more than enough police presence to negate any safety risks at the event.Escalante told Matthews: The Chicago Police Department had no role, in the decision to cancel the rally.
In fact, I can tell you we did assure the Trump campaign that we had more than adequate resources outside the UIC Pavilion and that we guaranteed them we could provide safe access and exit for Mr. Trump.
Here s more on the story from CBS Chicago.We always knew that Donald Trump was a lying windbag.But Friday s events give us an even better idea of how Trump would respond in the face of even the slightest threat.The brave, bold leader of the far right abandoned his faithful followers without a second thought.
And all because some Black and brown people showed up to one of his rallies, carrying protest signs.Yet Trump would have them believe that in the face of a real terror attack, he d never, ever disappear from the radar the way George W. Bush did on 9/11.Actions speak louder than words.Trump clearly chose to blame Chicago police for a decision that was entirely his own.
And why wouldn t he?
His supporters aren t the type of people who would forgive their supposedly-fearless leader for admitting that he s a big fat coward.It takes absolutely no courage to spew a lot of racist, hate speech to an auditorium full of people who share your disturbing worldview.On the other hand, it takes enormous courage to stand up against the kind of hate that the right wing is spreading in America.It takes courage to walk into an arena packed full of rabid Trump supporters; people who believe that what our country needs right now is more hate, more fear, more ugliness, more racism, more religious bigotry, more intolerance, more violence and stand against those messages, chanting Hey Hey, Ho Ho, Donald Trump has got to go, and Bernie!
Bernie!
Bernie!
Featured image via video screen capture CBS Chicago