The election of reality television star Donald Trump has people all over the world responding in various ways.
Some of us are in total shock, despair and disbelief, and some of us are finding creative ways to resist this presidency.
First Amendment lawyer Floyd Abrams is amongst those raising eyebrows with an unprecedented suggestion for Americans.On Wednesday night, during a dinner hosted by the Media Law Resource Center, the top lawyer made a suggestion that shocked everyone.
First, he called Trump the greatest threat to the First Amendment since the passage of the Sedition Act of 1798.
And then he surprised everyone again when he suggested that reporters should think about suing Trump.When Abrams, who is the most well-known First Amendment lawyer in the country, was asked for clarification, he said: It s seems to be that in light of the attacks made by then-Candidate Trump against the press on a continuing basis his preventing certain journalists from even attending his rallies as part of the press corps because he disapproved for their writing, and his public comments about wanting to loosen American libel law the press ought to be thinking broadly about how to defend itself if his Administration turns out to be as antagonistic to the press as may be the case.
Abrams also cited libel law, and suggested that Trump be sued by the media for defamation.
Abrams warned the press that it should be trying to protect itself, as Trump has threatened several times to prevent the media from speaking negatively about him.
It may well be necessary to think outside the box in response to a deliberately repressive administration.
It s because the level of hostility to the press, and perhaps the willingness to limit or punish press criticism may reach a new height in this administration.
Although Abrams mentioned that this would be a first for American journalists, maybe it s time that changed.
The press is used to defending libel cases.
That s a good part to what I ve done in my career.
So as to protect free speech and free expression as much as possible.
I m not seeking to move away from that.
My plea is to bear in mind that one of the potential weapons is that when anyone president or shoemaker defames an entity, and speaks falsely and maliciously, one of the possible responses is to bring a libel suit.
Trump has spent days on Twitter bashing the media and condemning journalists for speaking the truth about him.
Even after the election, Trump has continued to criticize the media for doing its job.
Just days after winning the election, Trump was back at it again: TwitterFeatured image via Joe Raedle / Getty Images