Donald Trump hasn t even secured the nomination of his party yet and already his anti-Hillary Clinton misogyny is on full blast.While all but ignoring his own Republican opponents, Trump used an Indiana rally on the eve of the primary to once again criticize Clinton for talking too loudly.
The painful irony: While describing how off-putting her screaming is, Trump was yelling his voice hoarse.It s almost as if there is a double standard here Just Donald Trump screaming his criticism of Hillary Clinton screaming pic.twitter.com/tupT6T3TgI Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) May 2, 2016 And I would say that she started screaming at the teleprompter, Trump yelled, but I m not allowed to say that.
Breathing heavily into the microphone, he added: You know why now if she was a man I could say it.
But as a woman, ladies, I m sorry, I m not allowed to say it.
Which, of course, as a man, nobody will bother criticizing Trump for yelling at this rally or any other.
Nor has Hillary Clinton s gender stopped Trump (or other conservative pundits) from feigning concern about how loudly she talks.
Not only do they feel they are allowed to say it they say it all the time.
Endlessly, in fact.
At high volume.The general election hasn t even begun and already the battle lines are being drawn.
Donald Trump is already signalling that his campaign is going to be one primarily based on sexist attacks.
He has avoided going after her experience, her ability, and her accomplishments (none of which Trump can say he has a strong counterargument against), and instead has repeatedly hit her for playing the woman card.
If Hillary Clinton were a man, I don t think she d get 5 percent of the vote.
The only thing she s got going is the woman s card.
Is it working?
It doesn t appear to be.
For Trump s largely male crowd, it might elicit fist bumps, but the rest of the country is horrified.
Trump s original woman card comments drove a record-setting $2.4 million in donations to Clinton s campaign.
Meanwhile, Trump s popularity with female voters not good in the first place has been steadily tanking further.What Trump s sexist comments do accomplish, however, is to remind America of just how adrift the Republican Party is from our modern society.
2016 is awfully late to be arguing women shouldn t be allowed to speak passionately in public.
Perhaps the party needs an update.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images