Republican frontrunner Donald Trump is leading the pack by appealing to the very worst aspects of human nature, and the battle is on the find the sentence that truly expresses the horror and contempt this news generates in the rest of us.
We think Trevor Noah might just have found it.Speaking on the Daily Show, Noah said: I hope there are two Donald Trumps that way he can go f*ck himself Yep that just about does it.But Noah s whole rant delivered a brutal drop kick to the Trump campaign and its cynical use of every dirty tactic in the book to gain power with near total disregard for the consequences.
We laugh, but it s still more likely there s only one Donald Trump, who is just a cynical, manipulating man, manipulating his followers and his enemies and the media without any concern for what he s doing to the country, That s possible.
That s probably the truth.
But I do hope I do hope that there are two Donald Trumps.
Because that way he could go f*ck himself.
Turning to the ever-escalating racist violence spilling out of Trump rallies across the country, Noah didn t mince his words either.
Here s the truth: Donald Trump didn t just create an atmosphere for violence at his rallies, he engineered it as carefully and deliberately as Matt Damon did when he was growing potatoes on Mars.
Finally the host appealed to fans of Trump s opponents to avoid confronting Trump fans, or attempting to shut down their rallies, saying: If you come in, and you actually try to silence them, it s like trying to put a fire out by putting wood onto it, You ve given Trump the villain that, up until now, he was making up.
The issue of course, with failing to confront Trump and his merry band of agitators, is that fascism is the genie you can t put back in the bottle.Donald Trump, and his fellow Republican candidates, have pulled the most noxious, toxic, racist, sexist behavior back into the mainstream.The Republican establishment knows they have opened pandora s box, a box that they cannot now close.
They hoped to leverage its toxic contents by turning it into votes for their establishment candidate.
Instead, Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have been given the chance to take over; two men who would have been unelectable in almost any ballot in modern times.
Whatever hell these candidates and their followers reap upon the country, it will taint the Republican party forever.Featured image via screengrab