A play scheduled to open Saturday night in Chicago targets Barron Trump, the ten-year-old son of newly sworn in President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump.The play, titled, Barron Trump Up Past Bedtime , stars comedian Shannon Noll as Barron and is set for the Revival Theater in Hyde Park, the neighborhood of Trump s predecessor former President Barack Obama.
Melania Trump will also be targeted in character on stage.
But the main target, of course, is President Trump.After eight years of presidential children being off limits (to the point news articles about them disappeared after White House warnings), they are fair game now that a Republican is president.
A headline about the play at the Chicago Reader makes that very point about young Barron Trump being fair game : Barron Trump is fair game in Barron Trump: Up Past BedtimeThe Revival Theater s description of the play: Join Donald Trump s youngest heir Barron Trump (as played by Shannon Noll) for a Pee Wee s Playhouse-style show that features celebrity guests (Melania Trump, Ben Carson, and Vladimir Putin) patriotic games (Pin the Email on the Clinton), and fancy fun!
The Chicago Reader interviewed Noll about the play.
Noll says her approach is decidedly lighthearted: an exploration of the current political moment through the eyes of a child enmeshed in it.
When I set out to do this show, I did it to use [Barron] as a vehicle to comment on this administration, Noll says.
She was initially inspired to take on the title role due to her resemblance to the youngest Trump, who stepped into the spotlight when he appeared to struggle to stay awake during his father s presidential victory speech, which occurred at around 3 AM.Up Past Bedtime begins as Melania Trump tucks Barron in for the night.
He then secretly stays awake to explore a fantastical world, a la Pee-wee s Playhouse, populated by the likes of Vladimir Putin and Ben Carson.Noll told the Chicago Tribune that Barron Trump is absolutely not the butt of a joke.
I noticed that I looked like Barron Trump and I thought that would be an interesting approach, she said.
She has brought on collaborators who will perform solo material (the aforementioned imaginary friends) and I m facilitating that as Barron Trump as master of ceremonies.
Barron Trump is absolutely not the butt of a joke, she said.Asked if she had any second thoughts about going ahead with the show, Noll said, No, I sort of doubled-down.
I was originally going to create a fake Trump child, but I look so much like Barron.
And going into this, I specifically created this character so that he bears no resemblance in personality to what we ve seen of Barron Trump.
I m just playing him as a generic kid.
Gateway Pundit