The New York Times is set to launch a television ad during the Academy Awards that seems to heavily target statements made by President Donald Trump.The 30-second ad, entitled, The Truth, features black text flashing on a white screen with the words The truth is, followed by a variety of statements.According to a report in The Hill, at least three of the statements were in reference to Trump.
The truth is the media is dishonest, reads one statement, a likely reference to Trump s frequent comments slamming the media s honesty.Here s another statement from the ad: The truth is alternative facts are lies.
That one s an obvious reference to a comment made by Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway.The ad runs through a series of other phrases, some targeting conservative talking points such as we have to protect our borders, the emails are dangerous, and climate change is a hoax.
The ad finishes up with the phrase The truth is hard to find, which then switches to The truth is hard to know, and finally concludes with The truth is more important now than never.
MRCTVThat final phrase is pretty clearly seen as a parting shot at the Trump administration s relationship with the press:Recently the Times featured an article touting the renewed sense of mission for journalists in the Trump era looking to take down the Republican president by uncovering a Watergate-style scandal.The New York paper is not alone in its pretentious claims of being the guardian of truth, on Tuesday, The Washington Post added this slogan to its website: Democracy dies in darkness.
Apparently only the light of the Post s reporting can save the nation from the darkness of a Trump presidency.Just on Sunday, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus was forced to shoot down yet another misleading report from the Times about supposed contact between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence officials.
On NBC s Meet the Press, he told moderator Chuck Todd:I mean we ve spent days talking about a story that says that our campaign had constant contacts with Russian spies.
And I can tell you, I ve talked to the top levels of the intelligence community.
And they ve assured me that that New York Times story was grossly overstated, and inaccurate and totally wrong .It is this sort of fake news stuff that is enormously important that, when you get a front page story of The New York Times without a single source on the record saying that your campaign had constant contacts they didn t say one contact.
They didn t say two contacts.
It doesn t matter.
We have not been informed of even that.
But to say, Constant contact?
On Friday, NBC s Today was thrilled by the upcoming Times television spot, with reporter Joe Fryer declaring: No matter who wins, politics will likely take the stage Sunday .The New York Times will even debut its first-ever Oscars ad, with the message, The truth is more important than ever.
A sign that with millions watching, Hollywood s biggest night could become its most political.