Earlier this week, Devin Nunes finally recused himself from the House Intel Committee s probe on Russian election tampering, putting Mike Conaway of Texas in charge.
Rep. Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the panel, remains in place.
Schiff has been working tirelessly to ensure that Nunes decision to leak classified info, and to talk to Agent Cheeto before the rest of his committee, doesn t derail the House s investigation any more than it has to.But some Republicans are apparently unhappy with Schiff still being there.
One such Republican is former House Intel Chairman Mike Rogers, who seems to think that if Nunes had to recuse himself from the probe, then Schiff should likewise recuse himself.
His reasoning is almost as batty as Mike Conaway s reasoning that Mexican performing artists are the same as Russian hackers: Representative Adam Schiff should consider recusing himself from the probe.
For his part, Schiff suggested to the media that he had seen information on Russia-Trump campaign ties that was the kind of evidence that would be presented to a grand jury, adding that he had seen additional evidence, but not elaborating further.
He went on to ask how the committee could continue doing its business when secret information is publicly discussed, even by innuendo.
Except Schiff didn t go running to others with documents in hand.
He simply explained how he interpreted what he had seen, without revealing what he had seen.Republicans seem to be incapable of making valid comparisons.Rogers has a serious problem with Schiff because he believes that Schiff politicized the committee s investigation.
He couldn t be more wrong.
It was Nunes who politicized it when he took information directly to Trump before presenting it to the rest of the committee.Rogers is right about one thing: The committee needs to get back on track as soon as possible.
That won t happen without Schiff, though, because he s been relentless in trying to keep the committee on track.
Rogers call for him to recuse himself positively reeks of, No fair!
We gave someone up so now you have to!
Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images