After a clean sweep of victories for Donald Trump on Tuesday night, he quickly took this as an indicator that he is the presumptive nominee for the Republican Party.
He also took it as the perfect time to completely start to try to throw Hillary Clinton under the bus.There s nothing a misogynist is more fearful of than a strong woman, let alone a strong woman who has actual policy proposals and far more experience for the job you re vying to have.
And with Hillary Clinton nearly clinching the Democratic nomination for president, and Trump close to clinching the Republican nomination, he went directly after Clinton for being a woman.
Even claiming the only reason she s doing well is because of the woman card.
He said: The only card she has is the woman s card.
She s got nothing else going.
And frankly, if Hillary Clinton were a man, I don t think she d get five percent of the vote.
The only thing she s got going is the woman s card, and the beautiful thing is, women don t like her.
Well, one woman who clearly didn t like all this talk of the woman s card was Mary Pat Christie, wife of New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie, who was standing directly behind Trump.
When he uttered that phrase, she very visibly rolled her eyes.Christie s reaction was likely that of every woman across the nation who doesn t hate themselves for being a woman.
Trump is showing that he is absolutely terrified of Hillary Clinton, otherwise he wouldn t say such a ridiculous thing to try to sway the vote.
Hillary has more proper policy experience in her pinky finger than Trump does in all ten of his tiny fingers.Keep showing your true colors, Trump, because more women just like Christie s wife will be setting the narrative for your campaign as they roll their eyes at your clear ineptitude rolling into November..@ChrisChristie's wife Mary Pat reacts to @realDonaldTrump during his "woman's card" comments on @HillaryClinton pic.twitter.com/yNKo8wE6tv POLITICO (@politico) April 27, 2016Miss it?
Watch here:It really does say it all.Featured image via video screen capture