Hate to disappoint the naysayers of Hillary Clinton who would love for her to be tossed out of the presidential election, but the short answer for what her private server did to the nation is nothing.
Scandalous, right?While appearing on Fox News Sunday ,President Obama told Chris Wallace that while not a good idea, when it comes down to if national security was ever at risk in regards to then Secretary of State Clinton s private email server, there was never any risk.He also stated: I also think it is important to keep this in perspective.
This is somebody who has served her country for four years as Secretary of State, and did an outstanding job.
He also said: There s carelessness in terms of managing emails, that she has owned, and she recognizes.
Clinton certainly has owned up to the carelessness of her private server on several occasions between countless interviews and debates, and insists that she will be cleared of any and all alleged wrongdoing.Obama also made a special point of saying, I guarantee that there is no political influence in any investigation conducted by the Justice Department, or the FBI, not just in this case, but in any case, because many on the right have already been implying that Clinton is somehow receiving special treatment, which is simply just not the case.
The president said: Nobody is above the law.
How many times do I have to say it?
Republicans and those opposing Hillary are holding tight to the verrrrrry slim possibility that she will somehow be indicted for having a private server and emails that changed classification status after the fact.According to HuffPo: The State Department said this month it has suspended plans for an internal review of whether classified information was properly handled in Clinton s emails at the request of the FBI.
The department, complying with a judge s order, has released more than 52,000 emails from Clinton s private server.
Clinton, quite literally, is complying with everything that is being asked of her, and she alongside the president seem pretty damn confident that she will be vindicated.
Which will likely be exactly what happens.
Featured image via video screen capture