Does anyone care?
If Hillary personally gassed these citizens would anyone care?
Has America become so conditioned to reading about Clinton crimes that they ve become desensitized to the serious consequences of their selfish actions?The Clinton-run State Department s approval of chemical and biological exports to the Egyptian government increased in volume just as dollars flowed from Mubarak-linked entities into the coffers of Clinton family concerns.
A group closely associated with the Mubarak government paid Bill Clinton a $250,000 speaking fee in 2010, less than 4 months before the Egyptian revolution began.
In 2012, a firm with an ownership stake in the company that manufactured the tear gas reportedly used by Egyptian security forces against the uprising paid $100,000 to $250,000 for another Bill Clinton speech.The approval of American chemical weapons sales to Egypt as Mubarak s associates were stocking Clinton family interests with cash is but one example of a dynamic that prevailed though Hillary Clinton s tenure as secretary of state.Clinton with MubarakDuring the roughly two years of Arab Spring protests that confronted authoritarian governments with popular uprisings, Clinton s State Department approved $66 million worth of so-called Category 14 exports defined as toxicological agents, including chemical agents, biological agents and associated equipment to nine Middle Eastern governments that either donated to the Clinton Foundation or whose affiliated groups paid Bill Clinton speaking fees.That represented a 50 percent overall increase in such export approvals to the same countries over the two years prior to the Arab Spring, according to an International Business Times review of State Department documents.
In the same time period, Arab countries that did not donate to the Clinton Foundation saw an overall decrease in their State Department approvals to purchase chemical and biological materials.The reports released by Clinton s state department since 2010 disclose overall export numbers.
For instance, in 2010, export authorizations to Egypt s government for chemical and biological agents saw a one-year, 38 percent increase in the lead-up to the revolution against Mubarak s government.
That year, the Mubarak-aligned American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt paid Bill Clinton $250,000.
Two close Mubarak allies were past presidents of the group, one of whom reportedly was sent to lobby Washington against a proposed resolution that would call on Mubarak to have free and fair elections.In all, in the two years after Bill Clinton was paid by the Mubarak-aligned group and as uprisings against the Egyptian government swept the country the Clinton-led State Department backed a 12 percent increase in exports to Egypt in the biological and chemical agents category.Washington and Clinton specifically were forced to reverse course on their support for Mubarak after the country democratically elected the Muslim Brotherhood s Mohammed Morsi.
Egypt s honeymoon with democracy was short-lived however and Morsi, after an ill-fated attempt to grant himself special powers, was overthrown in a military coup.
He was sentenced to death last month.
Clinton with MorsiHere s a bit more color from the IBTimes report Some Clinton Foundation donors from the Middle East did not see an increase in authorizations for toxicological agents during the Arab Spring, but did see big increases earlier, soon after Clinton came into office in 2009.Algeria received just $2,110 worth of State Department authorizations in the chemical and biological weapons category in fiscal 2008.
But the next fiscal year 80 percent of which was under Clinton s tenure the country received more than $6 million worth of such Category 14 authorizations.
Five-point-eight million dollars of the authorizations were for items classified as tear gases and riot control agents.
The next year, the Algerian government gave the Clinton Foundation $500,000.
Amid the Arab Spring revolts in 2011, Algerian security forces used tear gas on protesters in the capital.
and here s a look at the numbers Via: The awesome Zero Hedge