Usually, Donald Trump spokesperson Katrina Pierson can find sanctuary with the ever-conservative leaning Fox News, but that didn t seem to be the case for her on Sunday while being interviewed by Arthel Neville.Shortly after claiming that it was President Obama who went into Afghanistan with her own make-believe version of facts and history, Pierson went on Fox News to talk about Trump s lack of tax returns.
Something that s been asked of every presidential candidate for decades.Neville said: As you know, Katrina, presidential candidates have consistently released their tax returns since the 70s.
And you also know there is no existing law barring people from releasing their tax returns during an audit.
So the question is that everyone wants to know, why won t Mr. Trump release his tax returns?
And can you answer the implications that he s hiding something?
All very good questions.
Yet, cue the denial and excuses from Pierson, who replied: This really has become much of a novelty in presidential campaigns.
A novelty?!
Even a Fox News host couldn t let Pierson get away with such a ludicrous statement as that.
All candidates have been releasing their returns, no matter the party.
Trump not releasing his returns is clearly indicative that he has something in which he is trying to prevent the public from seeing.Pierson keeps going back and forth with Neville even trying to say that the media is bullying poor tiny-handed Trump into releasing his returns.
However, the Fox host wasn t having it, and told her: Katrina, we re going to keep going on this because people want to know.
It s not about a gotcha with Mr. Trump.
Again, he is a successful businessman that he been touting to us this entire campaign.
That is why they want to see.
Why are you saying that it s some sort of corruption or some sort of campaign that people are including the media are out to get him?
That is not the case.
He s running for the president of the United States of America.
Show your tax returns.
It s that simple.
And BOOM went the dynamite.
Well done, Neville.
Well done.Pierson then flounders for a few more minutes, but there s no trying to convince people at this point that Trump should get a free pass on not releasing his returns just like everyone else to show true transparency.Watch the segment here:Featured image via video screen capture HT Raw Story