A comedian went too far today and for that, she has apologized after outrage ensued.
After a gory photo circulated showing Kathy Griffin holding a bloody Donald Trump mask, seemingly portraying his decapitated head, she admitted on Tuesday that she went too far in her latest photo shoot with controversial photographer Tyler Shields.
To be clear, the condemnation was bipartisan; Chelsea Clinton, among others, denounced Griffin over the stunt.This is vile and wrong.
It is never funny to joke about killing a president.
https://t.co/zIiuKoMyFw Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) May 30, 2017In contrast, Donald Trump Jr. blamed the left.
Disgusting but not surprising.
This is the left today.
They consider this acceptable.
Imagine a conservative did this to Obama as POTUS?
he tweeted without one bit of irony.Disgusting but not surprising.
This is the left today.
They consider this acceptable.
Imagine a conservative did this to Obama as POTUS?
https://t.co/QdghcbIjS7 Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) May 30, 2017Here is Ms. Griffin s apology:I am sorry.
I went too far.
I was wrong.
pic.twitter.com/LBKvqf9xFB Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) May 30, 2017Junior got schooled by the Internet.Yes @DonaldJTrumpJr, imagine if a conservative did this oh wait, here's a TON of them doing it!
https://t.co/7JI3j0nXmN Scott Nevins (@ScottNevins) May 30, 2017Trump repeatedly lied about Presidents birth certificate & pushed bigoted conspiracy.
GOP leaders sent out racists cartoons via emails Scott Nevins (@ScottNevins) May 30, 2017this is not "the left".
This is one person.And could u only imagine pic.twitter.com/mnF1pSCknj Mike Wickett (@mikewickett) May 30, 2017Conservative hero Ted Nugent has never apologized for the threats he s made.https://t.co/W9RIXaGkKf Zoe Washburne???
(@DeepInTheHills) May 30, 2017Fun fact: People did do this to Obama every day.
Multiple times in fact.
Not that you'd know or care.
Melissa Ryan (@MelissaRyan) May 30, 2017Oh look, a Nazi is defending Trump Junior s tweet yet he hasn t called it out.Fun fact: Trump won, Hillary lost Frank Jackson (@FrankJackson45) May 31, 2017meanwhile pic.twitter.com/rVjGA6VpsJ State of Ohio (@State_of_Ohio) May 30, 2017You mean like this?
pic.twitter.com/Il3bYVMye3 Colin Taylor (@ColsBols) May 30, 2017Former President Barack Obama s children were threatened, too.
"assassinate the f -n n and his monkey children."
https://t.co/T75ru0n8kK Julie Harris #Resist (@sabela13) May 30, 2017Ted Nugent threatened to kill Obama and he was invited into the Oval Office.
Talia (@2020fight) May 30, 2017Jake Tapper chimed in to say, For those asking, I said on air that I thought the beheading imagery by Griffin about the president was disgusting and inappropriate.
For those asking, I said on air that I thought the beheading imagery by Griffin about the president was disgusting and inappropriate.
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) May 30, 2017Soledad O Brien weighed in.This Kathy Griffin thing is so upsetting and disgusting.
Jesus what is wrong with people today?
Have we lost all our humanity?
Soledad O'Brien (@soledadobrien) May 30, 2017Here is Junior s daddy in 2012 giving Nugent a pass after he threatened Obama.
Ted Nugent was obviously using a figure of speech, unfortunate as it was.
It just shows the anger people have towards @BarackObama, It tweeted.Ted Nugent was obviously using a figure of speech, unfortunate as it was.
It just shows the anger people have towards @BarackObama.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2012In 2013, Conservative radio host Pete Santilli said on his show that he wanted to shoot Hillary Clinton in the vagina.
He got really graphic, adding, I don t want her to die right away; I want her to feel the pain, and he said, we need to try, convict, and shoot Hillary Clinton in the vagina.
Much later, Santilli joined the militants who took over the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.There was no uproar from conservatives over Santilli s threats, nor was there any outrage over the racial slurs repeatedly thrown at Obama, his wife, and their children.
There was no uproar from conservatives when Donald Trump launched an effort to delegitimize our country s first black President.As for Ms. Griffin, she crossed the line and her photo has been widely denounced on both sides of the aisle.
We re not adding Griffin s photo here because it s in very poor taste but you can Google it if you re curious.Photo by David Becker/Getty Images.