President Obama should put the National Guard and other military units on standby on Election Day.Because if Trump supporters don t get the results they want, they are going to try to kill Hillary Clinton and anyone else standing in the way of their party taking over the government.The Boston Globe attended a Donald Trump rally in Ohio last week and talked to several suppporters of the Republican nominee about what they will do if their candidate loses.To them, however, the only way Trump can lose is if their is election fraud, which Trump has already accused Hillary Clinton of committing.In Pennsylvania in August, Trump declared that the only way he can lose is if Hillary Clinton cheats, thus setting the stage for massive complaints of election fraud if Hillary wins the election on November 8th, even by a landslide.Trump has made his crowd of middle-aged white supporters very angry and very paranoid.Scott Webb is taking his command from Trump to watch polling places very seriously.
Trump said to watch your precincts, the 61-year-old said.
I m going to go, for sure.
I ll look for well, it s called racial profiling.
Mexicans.
Syrians.
People who can t speak American.
I m going to go right up behind them.
I ll do everything legally.
I want to see if they are accountable.
I m not going to do anything illegal.
I m going to make them a little bit nervous.
In other words, Webb is going to try to intimidate anyone who doesn t have the same skin color as he does because Trump supporters believe that only minorities commit voter fraud.65-year-old Jeannine Bell Smith is already predicting unprecedented amounts of voter fraud this election even though it is very rare in this country.
We re going to have a lot of election fraud, she said.
They are having illegals vote.
In some states, you don t need voter registration to vote.
We can t have that lying bitch in the White House.
Judy Wright doesn t care if Hillary wins in a squeaker or by a landslide.
If Hillary wins, it s rigged, she said.
All I know is our country is not going to be a country anymore.
I ve heard people talk about a revolution.
I ve heard people talk about separation of states.
I don t even like to think about it.
But I don t think this movement is going away.
We don t have a voice anymore, and Donald Trump is giving us a voice.
Indeed, many Trump supporters are ready to overthrow the government and assassinate Hillary Clinton if Trump doesn t win.
That s what 50-year-old Dan Bowman told the Boston Globe in the scariest quote they obtained.
If she s in office, I hope we can start a coup.
She should be in prison or shot.
That s how I feel about it.
We re going to have a revolution and take them out of office if that s what it takes.
There s going to be a lot of bloodshed.
But that s what it s going to take I would do whatever I can for my country.
Donald Trump and his supporter are the most dangerous threat against America and our democracy.
Trump has already called for Second Amendment people to do something about Hillary Clinton if she wins and nominates Supreme Court Justices that conservatives don t approve of.
He has also called for her to be imprisoned.And his fanatical supporters are starting to foam at the mouth at the thought to attempting to violently overthrow the government.Even Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin has called for a bloody revolt if Trump doesn t win.Trump supporters claim they are oppressed, but that s just because they aren t allowed to oppress black people, gays, and Muslims.
They literally think they are being oppressed because they can t legally oppress others.The fact is that if any Trump supporters who attempt a coup will be guilty of treason and should pay major consequences for their actions.
That being said, the federal government and law enforcement need to take these threats seriously.
We cannot not tolerate such an attack on our democracy and the peaceful transition of power that has existed in this country since its founding.
So no matter how many votes Trump loses by, even if it comes down to a few thousand, Trump s supporters need to accept that they lost fair and square.Featured Image: Screenshot