Donald Trump tweets out a number of terrible opinions on a daily basis so it takes an especially boneheaded post to get people s attention.
On Friday, Trump delivered with a gloriously self-indulgent tweet meant to show that he could beat Hillary Clinton in November and instead proved the exact opposite.Oops.THANK YOU!
#AmericaFirst pic.twitter.com/qp07UfnnjM Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 17, 2016For those of us with a rudimentary understanding of how numbers work, the poll numbers for the question If the election for President were held today, for whom would you vote?
show that more people chose Hillary Clinton than did Trump.
In a democracy, that s known as losing.
In Trump s head, it was a crushing victory.
He even thanked, er, someone (the pollsters?
the voters?
OAN?)
for the exciting news that he is down.Aside from the obvious fact that this poll shows Trump losing, critics were quick to point out that there were a number of other hilariously stupid things at play here.For starters, this poll conducted by Fox News knockoff One America News Network was done over a month ago Bro, not only are you losing, but this is from May 10th https://t.co/ll4CF3rgea Liam Donovan (@LPDonovan) June 17, 2016But also, whoever edited the graphic for Trump s tweet must have known it didn t look good because they photoshopped Trump above Clinton, as if just the positioning might make people forget the numbers.
Here s the original:It s also possible that Trump is focusing on a month-old poll that shows him down by 2 points, because the news since then has been dismal.
In more recent polls, Clinton is pulling away and there is talk among both conservative and liberal pollsters that this election could very well turn into a complete rout.
As Clinton consolidates the Democratic Party and gets to turn her attention to the general election, her poll numbers have been slowly climbing.
Trump s on the other hand are in absolute freefall In recent days, Trump has congratulated himself after a mass shooting, accused President Obama of working with ISIS, banned a major newspaper from covering his campaign, and attempted to turn gay people against Muslims.
If he thought those particularly egregious actions would help him win in November, he apparently underestimated the American people.So maybe Trump should consider taking Clinton s free advice.Delete your account.
https://t.co/Oa92sncRQY Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 9, 2016Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images