Donald Trump is desperate to stop the investigation into his dirty Russian escapades and even went as far as firing FBI Director James Comey, who just happened to be investigating him.
Now, Sen. Dianne Feinstein says she is growing increasingly concerned that Trump might try to fire both Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is overseeing the probe into Trump s possible collusion with Russia and his obstruction of justice, and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.Feinstein, who is the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, laid out her concerns in a statement on Friday.
The message the president is sending through his tweets is that he believes the rule of law doesn t apply to him and that anyone who thinks otherwise will be fired.
That s undemocratic on its face and a blatant violation of the president s oath of office, she wrote.Citing Trump s most recent tweets regarding the Russia investigation, which he has repeatedly called a witch hunt, Feinstein said Trump has embarked on an effort to undermine anyone with the ability to bring any misdeeds to light.
The Senate should not let that happen.
We re a nation of laws that apply equally to everyone, a lesson the president would be wise to learn, Feinstein said.Trump doesn t have the authority to fire Mueller.
However, he can order Rosenstein to fire him.
When Rosenstein testified before Congress, he said that he would only consider firing Mueller if there was good cause.
But if Trump wanted to, he is able to fire Rosenstein and appoint someone who, after Senate confirmation, would follow his orders blindly.But Feinstein warned that this would be a huge mistake on Trump s part and would inevitably lead to a revolt of even his staunchest supporters.
If the president thinks he can fire Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and replace him with someone who will shut down the investigation, he s in for a rude awakening.
Even his staunchest supporters will balk at such a blatant effort to subvert the law, she said.The similarities between Trump and Nixon just keep piling up.
If he were to go the route Feinstein fears, it would be the Saturday Night Massacre all over again and would probably lead to the same outcome: impeachment.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images