Donald Trump won the presidential election.
But did he really win?As it stands right now, he s down in the popular vote by two million votes.
Two million.
For comparison, President Obama s victories came with a five million vote lead (2012) and a massive 10 million vote lead (2008).
Even Trump says he likes the popular vote better he just also claims he d have won if that s what was counted, which is clearly not the case.
From Politico:Trump himself is a noted critic of the Electoral College who called it a disaster for a democracy in 2012, and he told New York Times reporters Tuesday he would rather do the popular vote and was never a fan of the Electoral College until now.
The popular vote would have been a lot easier, Trump said, but it s a whole different campaign.
I would have been in California, I would have been in Texas, Florida and New York, and we wouldn t have gone anywhere else.
Which is, I mean I d rather do the popular vote.
But I think the popular vote would have been easier in a true sense because you d go to a few places, he added.
I think that s the genius of the Electoral College.
I was never a fan of the Electoral College until now.
In fact, if her lead keeps growing, there s a possibility she could win the popular vote by more than George Bush did in 2004 (when he won re-election).
And while we re on that note, here s an even more heartening statistic: Republicans have won the popular vote only twice in the last 30 years.
They are completely reliant on electoral shenanigans and gerrymandering to hold any national power, and after the next census elections, there s a good possibility even their cheats will be eroded.
And without that, they re finished.The difference between Barack Obama and Donald Trump can be summed up like this: When Obama ran for his first term, he was elected with the most votes ever won by a presidential candidate, ever almost 70 million.
Trump?
He is setting a record, too for the biggest popular vote loss in history while winning the election.
Other presidents have lost the popular vote while winning the election, but Donald Trump is unique in that he lost by more than all of them combined, times two.Great job, Donald Trump!
You singlehandedly made reforming the electoral college a major political issue.
And if the National Popular Vote Bill is passed in a few more states, the nation won t see another Republican president until they broaden their appeal.Here s a video from Rachel Maddow breaking down exactly how crazy these election results really are:Featured image via video screenshot