In a direct assault on the free press, one of Donald Trump s top advisers literally called for putting the editor of the New York Times in jail for publishing Trump s tax returns.As you may recall, the New York Times came into possession of Trump s 1995 tax return that showed he wrote off a $900 million business loss that may have allowed him to not not any federal income taxes for two decades.Trump notoriously refused to release his tax returns throughout the entire campaign so it was only a matter of time before a media platform got hold of them and published them for everyone to see.
After all, it s the duty of the free press to get information to the people, and most Americans wanted Trump to release his tax documents.Baquet and Washington Post legend Bob Woodward both said they would risk jail by publishing Trump s taxes if they ever got possession of them.Not publishing Trump s tax returns would have been a disservice to the American people and would have basically been a cover-up on Trump s behalf.But Corey Lewandowski says that not only should the New York Times have buried the story, executive editor Dean Baquet should be put behind bars for doing his job.During a Harvard University conference on Thursday, Lewandowski attacked the media, accused the New York Times of committing a felony and said Baquet should be jailed, thus signaling that Trump and his team intend to violate the First Amendment at will when he assumes power in January.
We had one of the top people at the New York Times come to Harvard University and say, I m willing to go to jail to get a copy of Donald Trump s taxes so I can publish them, Lewandowski said.
Dean Baquet came here and offered to go to jail.
You re telling me, he s willing to commit a felony on a private citizen to post his taxes, and there isn t enough scrutiny on the Trump campaign and his business dealings and his taxes?
It s egregious.
He should be in jail.
So one of Trump s top minions literally wants to jail journalists for doing their job, especially if they publish stories that Trump does not like.
We re talking about publishing the facts here.When the New York Times criticized Hillary Clinton you didn t hear Trump call for jailing journalists then.
And that because he s okay with using the media to attack his opponents.
He only wants to silence journalists when they publish negative stories about him.
That s what dictators do, and that is exactly what Trump wants to be.Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images