For the second time in the last ten days, slimy and loathsome Ted Cruz totally botched another painful impression of the late President Kennedy.You might recall how Cruz first performed a painfully awkward rendition of the Miracle Max scene from the beloved film The Princess Bride, thus nearly ruining the film for all time.
There s something wrong in the universe when someone as repugnant as Cruz likes such a fantastic movie to the point where he can recite entire passages in the voices of the characters.
The voices were, of course, terrible and he got many of the lines wrong, which once again verified that most conservatives shouldn t bother trying to be funny.
They re never funny, even when the source material is stellar.Then, earlier this month, Cruz entertained a small crowd of Iowa yokels with a flop-sweat inducing JFK impression, just after suggesting Kennedy would be driven out of the modern Democratic Party for being too conservative.
Regarding the latter, no.
First, Kennedy was arguably more liberal than most Democratic leaders of 2016.
Second, there are moderate and conservative Democrats who continue to be welcome in the party, including presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton.It s also worth noting that Cruz fumbled the quote.
The line he attributed to JFK was actually said by Robert Kennedy years after JFK was assassinated.
RFK s line, which was cribbed from George Bernard Shaw, by the way, went: Some people see things as they are and say why.
I dream things that never were and say why not?
And this is the line Cruz used for his John Kennedy impression.He did it again on Monday.Cruz s verbatim line: During the 1960s, I will point out that one of the most powerful, eloquent defenders of tax cuts was John F. Kennedy.
As JFK said, Some men see things as they are and ask, Why?
I see things that never were and ask, why not?
These are the principles that work.
Once again, it was RFK who popularized the line.
Not JFK.
And no one noticed.Cruz also said that JFK was a champion of tax cuts.
This, believe it or not, is mostly true.
Kennedy proposed fairly deep cuts to the marginal tax rates at a time when the top bracket was nearly three times higher than it is today.But that wouldn t have forced him out of today s Democratic Party.
How do we know this?
President Obama is responsible for the biggest middle class tax cut in American history.
That s no exaggeration.
The infamous stimulus bill, which almost entirely helped to keep the economy from sliding into a Depression, included $282 billion in tax cuts.
As a point of comparison, President Bush s tax cuts amounted to roughly $174 billion.
Obama s tax cut was also larger than Reagan s cuts.So, Mr. Cruz continues to lie to his people, assuming they re too ignorant to know the difference between JFK and RFK, or the difference between Obama and Kennedy on tax cuts.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Rurnz8HuBE&w=560&h=315]Featured image via video screen grab.