Whiny White House advisor Kellyanne Conway does not like how the media treats her illegitimate president, Donald Trump.
She s continuing her crusade against the First Amendment.
Interestingly, she, President Steve Bannon, and Trump, have treated the press very badly, yet they feel they should get favorable coverage anyway.
Conway appeared on Sean Hannity s radio show, and talked about how mean the press is to Donald.Hannity asked Conway if the media at large was being beyond disrespectful to Trump and his staff, according to Mediaite.
Conway agreed then said that the coverage was inciting mob mentality if not mob violence.
The coverage never changed [of Trump].
It never progressed, it never matured, Conway said.Conway said she thought protesters had a very low level of literacy of the issues against which they demonstrated, when the truth is that her boss s grammar sits at just below a 6th grade level.
It never took on the aura of respect that it deserved, and if you are not showing the President and his main spokespeople respect, then you re not showing the office respect, and you are inciting mob mentality if not mob violence, she said.
You are encouraging people to go out there and unpeacefully protest and block airport entrances for people who are going to visit a sick parent and can t make their flight, or are going for a bereavement call and can t make their flight.
Listen below:People are treating Donald with the respect he deserves.
Protesters know exactly why they went to airports across the country.
People were being unconstitutionally detained and handcuffed, even children.
Conway said at the time that the whole idea that these people are being separated from their families is temporary.
She called it an inconvenience.
So, Kellyanne, just consider the treatment Trump is getting an inconvenience, and something that is temporary until his impeachment.She literally complained that the press is being mean to Donald to a Fox News host who treated former President Barack Obama like dirt for 8 years .
Quit being so PC, Kellyanne.
Conservatives tell me it s destroying our country.Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images.