Legendary investigative reporter Carl Bernstein sees right through Donald Trump s bullshit.In response to former FBI Director James Comey s testimony that outed Trump as a liar who fired him just because he wouldn t drop a federal investigation, Trump accused Comey of perjury and has labeled him a leaker because he released his memos to the press.
The memos, however, were not classified information and are protected by law and Supreme Court rulings.But Trump is still throwing a temper tantrum anyway and that hypocritical as Watergate reporter Carl Bernstein sees it.During an appearance on CNN, Bernstein took Trump to the woodshed for being the top leaker in his own administration.
He s trying to discredit Comey, he s trying to rouse his base as he did at the Faith Initiative Conference yesterday, Bernstein said.
He s somebody that s worried about what s down the road later rather than now.
So he s gone to the question, Comey is a leaker, thinking that is going to discredit him, particularly with his own base, when in fact Donald Trump is a leaker.
He s been a leaker for all of his professional life, he s even leaked by falsely impersonating himself under another name.
So this is a big game in which the president and the people around him know that he has been damaged, that these investigations are closing in on him and right now he wants to the weight of his followers behind him and he wants to keep them in place so Republicans on the Hill don t abandon him.
Right now what is clear to those of us who have studied this White House is that Donald Trump is engaged in a scorched-earth battle against James Comey and he s playing to his base for all its worth.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, the most damning evidence of Trump being the real leaker is when he leaked highly classified intelligence with Russian officials during an Oval Office meeting last month.The information was so sensitive that it had not even been shared with our top allies yet.The Washington Post reported:The partner had not given the United States permission to share the material with Russia, and officials said Trump s decision to do so endangers cooperation from an ally that has access to the inner workings of the Islamic State.
After Trump s meeting, senior White House officials took steps to contain the damage, placing calls to the CIA and the National Security Agency.
This is code-word information, said a U.S. official familiar with the matter, using terminology that refers to one of the highest classification levels used by American spy agencies.
Trump revealed more information to the Russian ambassador than we have shared with our own allies.
Trump even gave the Russians a good idea of who gathered the intelligence for us by naming the city it came from.Trump willfully endangered our national security and harmed the trust of an ally by leaking this sensitive information to the Russians.
That makes him a true leaker.
And he should be impeached and put in prison for it.Featured Image: Screenshot