President Trump has nominated Christopher Wray to be the new director of the FBI.
The president announced the pick in a tweet Wednesday: I will be nominating Christopher A. Wray, a man of impeccable credentials, to be the new Director of the FBI.
Details to follow.
#BREAKING @POTUS nominates Christopher Wray for @FBI Director.
#AmericaFirst #MAGA pic.twitter.com/7reLeV2ZE8 Boston Bobblehead (@DBloom451) June 7, 2017This comes one month after President Trump fired James Comey: While I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation, I nevertheless concur with the judgment of the Department of Justice that you are not able to effectively lead the bureau, Trump said in a letter to Comey.
It is essential that we find new leadership for the F.B.I.
that restores public trust and confidence in its vital law enforcement mission.
You are hereby terminated and removed from office, effective immediately.
Trump interviewed a slew of candidates for the position, including FBI director Andrew McCabe, former Democratic Sen. Joe Lieberman, former Oklahoma Gov.
Frank Keating, former FBI official Richard McFeely and John Pistole before settling on Wray.The interesting thing about the pick is that this was Trump s pick.
This is also a brilliant move from the president to nominate a pick for FBI Director one day before Comey testifies.Christopher Wray was the lawyer for Chris Christie in the Bridgegate Investigation.
The left will probably go bonkers over that fun fact.Here s a little more on Wray:Wray was nominated by President George W. Bush as assistant attorney general in charge of the Criminal Division, according to the U.S. Department of Justice website.
He held that job until 2005.Christopher Wray is a graduate of Yale Law School.
He led the Enron Task Force when he was with the Department of Justice.As head of the Criminal Division, Wray led investigations and prosecutions in securities fraud, health care fraud, money laundering, public corruption and several other areas of federal criminal law, according the the website of King & Spaulding, a Washington firm where he currently serves as a litigation partner.Via: Daily Caller