Kellyanne Conway couldn t take the heat.Donald Trump s lie about 3 million people voting illegally has been repeatedly debunked, especially by Politifact, which rated it false because Trump got his information from right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who got his information from a guy who refuses to show evidence to support his claim.Rather than admit that her boss is full of shit on this one topic, Kellyanne Conway dodged the same question from George Stephannopoulos on four different occasions.
That claim is groundless, Stephanopoulos said.
Isn t it irresponsible for the president-elect to make false statements like that?
I think it s groundless to talk about fake news, the fake news is that somehow the popular vote is more important than the Electoral College vote now, Conway replied.
All I saw was Road to 270, I ve never heard Road to popular vote.
Hillary Clinton currently has more than a 2 million vote lead in the popular vote and recount efforts are underway in three battleground states because the popular vote in those states could very well be wrong and that would swing the election in Clinton s favor and rid us of Trump and his bile.Stephanopoulos scolded Conway for ignoring his question and asked it again.
Kellyanne, that s not what I asked, he said.
No one is questioning the victory.
I said, is it appropriate, is it responsible for the president-elect to make false statements like that.
But Conway still refused to answer and chose to whine about the recounts instead.
Well first, many people are questioning the victory, Conway said.
You ve got people spending millions of dollars wasting money and time in the Clinton and Stein camps.
So, not everyone has accepted the election results.
Conway then claimed that Trump got his information from many different people including anti-immigrant Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach who is an extremist conservative whack job.
There s not evidence that there were millions of illegal votes, Stephanopoulos replied.
Zero.
But Conway only continued whining about the recount because whining is what she does best.
There s also no evidence that a recount is going to change the results in Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania, she claimed.
And while that might be true, the fact that Russia hacked our election system and Trump repeatedly claimed the election is rigged makes it pretty clear that we need these recount efforts.
If Conway really believes Trump legitimately won this election, she should have no objection to the recount.
The only reason she would object is because she fears the recount will reveal something her and Trump do not want discovered.Stephanopoulos refused to let Conway hijack the interview and asked the question again.
Simple question, Kellyanne.
Is that statement by President-elect Trump true?
But Conway couldn t even answer a simple question, which means these recounts should move forward.
In fact, they should move forward in every state Trump won just to make sure his team didn t rig the results.
After all, Trump did hire a man convicted of election fraud in Michigan.
That alone should make people question the vote tallies.Here s the video via YouTube:Again, how Conway is able to sleep at night and look at herself in the mirror every morning after defending Trump on a daily basis is a total mystery.Featured Image: Screenshot