The many, many murders and rapes of American citizens at the hands of people who re here illegally is sickening.
Illegal alien criminals are released or deported just to come back and commit another crime.
Our elected leaders have done a poor job of protecting the legal citizens of this country BUT they re welcoming in and expecting us to pay for illegals with our tax dollars.
We have a perfect example of that in Gov.
John Kasich who s stated that he would give amnesty to the millions of illegals within 100 days of the beginning of his presidency.
Unreal!
A mother of a son who was killed by an illegal gives her take on this proposal by Kasich: It s all so senseless, Maureen Maloney said of the death of countless Americans at the hands of illegal aliens.Maloney s 23 year-old son Matthew was hit by a repeat-offending illegal alien drunk driver.
Although Matthew survived the initial crash, he died as he was subsequently dragged a quarter of a mile caught in the wheel well of the illegal alien s pick up truck as the alien sought to flee the crime scene.
Witnesses who saw [Matthew] pinned screaming under the truck ran out and pounded on the vehicle, crying out to the driver who kept going '[Matthew] was alive for a good portion of it, wrote one report from the time.
NATIONAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE FOR STOLEN LIVES He wanted to be a police officer, Maloney said of her young son, who was voted most dependable by his high school senior class.
He had taken the civil service exam He liked to help people and do good.
He was just a law-abiding person, she said quietly.
The person who killed him should not have been in this country, Maloney explained, noting that Matthew s killer had assaulted police officers, he had assaulted paramedics, multiple drunk drivings, domestic violence and each time he had a run in with the police, he d go to court, pay his fine and be let go, Maloney said.
Somebody needs to start putting American lives first.
Somebody has to take care of the people that are in this country legally, Maloney declared.
Read more: BreitbartHERE S THE ACCOUNT OF WHAT HAPPENED IN MILFORD:An illegal immigrant charged with drunken driving and hitting a motorcyclist and dragging him a quarter of a mile to his death was ordered held on $100,000 bail during his arraignment in Milford District Court yesterday.
Nicholas Guaman, 34, of Milford, pleaded not guilty to vehicular homicide, driving under the influence of alcohol, leaving the scene of an accident involving personal injury and death, possession of an open container, failing to stop for police, unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle, failure to yield at a stop sign, wanton or reckless conduct creating risk to a child, and resisting arrest.
Mr. Guaman, a native of Ecuador, is being investigated by federal immigration officials.
He was held on a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainer and bail was set at $100,000, according to court officials.
Police say Mr. Guaman was drunk when he ran a stop sign about 7:45 p.m. Saturday night and struck the motorcycle driven by Matthew Denice, 23, of Milford.
Witnesses told police Mr. Denice was stuck in the wheel well of Mr. Guaman s pickup truck and was dragged about a quarter of a mile, despite people chasing the truck and banging on the sides screaming at the driver to stop.
Mr. Denice was declared dead at Milford Regional Medical Center.
Mr. Guaman s 6-year-old son, who was in the truck, was not injured.
Authorities said Mr. Guaman is in the country illegally and could face deportation.
During Mr. Guaman s arraignment, a prosecutor said that after Mr. Guaman s truck dragged Mr. Denice for more than a quarter of a mile, Mr. Guaman made a turn and drove onto a sidewalk.
At that point, Mr. Denice was dislodged from the truck.
Mr. Guaman then backed up over Mr. Denice and drove off, prosecutors said.
He was stopped by Milford police a short time later.
Mr. Guaman s lawyer, Craig Tavares, did not immediately return a call seeking comment.
We have two major issues here, Mr. Denice s mother, Maureen Maloney, told reporters.
The drinking and driving, and illegals driving without a license.
I m not against people coming to this country, it s a wonderful country, but do it the right way and abide by the laws once you re here.
Pablo Guaman, who owns the truck Nicholas Guaman was driving, was charged with allowing an unlicensed driver to drive a motor vehicle.
Authorities were unsure whether the two are related.Via: Telegram