The National Park Service might be out of a job keeping the White House grounds maintained.
A 10-year-old boy named Frank wrote President Donald Trump to offer his lawn mowing services at no charge and we all know the President loves a good deal.
So Frank mowed away this morning!President Trump tweeted out: Frank FX Giaccio-On behalf of @FLOTUS Melania & myself, THANK YOU for doing a GREAT job this morning!
@NatlParkService gives you an A+!Frank FX Giaccio-On behalf of @FLOTUS Melania & myself, THANK YOU for doing a GREAT job this morning!
@NatlParkService gives you an A+!
pic.twitter.com/135DxuapUI Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 15, 2017 HERE S WHAT HAPPENED IN EARLY AUGUST:Note to media: If you won t report the good things surrounding Trump s spectacular 6 months in office, including positive stories involving scores of his supporters of all ages, ethnicities and genders, Sarah Huckabee Sanders will.Here's Sarah Huckabee Sanders reading a letter from 10-year-old Frank from Virginia https://t.co/0TCpj3P2xE Meg Wagner (@megwagner) August 2, 2017This smart little entrepreneur clearly touched the president s heart with this letter: Dear Mr. President,It would be my honor to mow the White House lawn for some weekend for you, even though I m only 10, I d like to show the nation what young people like me are ready for.
I admire your business background and have started my own business.
I ve been mowing my neighbors lawns for some time, please see the attached flyer, here s a list of what I have and you re free to pick whatever you want: power mower, push mower, and weed whacker, I can bring extra fuel for the power mower and charge batteries for the weed whacker, and I ll do that with no charge.Sincerely,Frank.
Huckabee-Sanders, who is a mother of 3 young children, was probably tickled pink to offer President Trump s response to this ambitious young man in person: Frank, I m happy to report back to you that I just spoke with the President, he wanted me to be sure and tell you that you re doing a great job and keep working hard.
He also asked me, we found out when we called, to let you know that we would be reading this letter to wish you a happy birthday.
I think Frank went from 10 to 11 in the time that we received and were able to respond to this letter, and he also wanted to invite you to spend a morning here at the White House with the groundskeeper.