Some people just can t handle the truth, even if it s handed to them on a silver platter.
So, when legendary filmmaker Rob Reiner told Joe Scarborough to his face that Donald Trump supporters are racist, it did not go over well.
You see, Scarborough has pretty much given Trump an open platform to spew his fallacies and propaganda on his MSNBC show Morning Joe practically any time he wants.
Reiner clearly kicked the hornets nest by being so honest directly to Scarborough s face.After being asked why people may support Trump, Reiner said: There are a lot of people who are racist.
Which got the reply, Oh my God!
Did you just say that?
But Reiner didn t back away from the obvious truth.
He added: That s true.
They re not all racist there are a lot of people who are.
There is racism in this country that has been submerged for a long, long time.
And all of a sudden there s a man speaking He s then interrupted by Scarborough who tried to say Trump supporters may just be angry working class Americans, so Reiner responded: Let me say this to that.
There are those that are following Bernie Sanders that feel the same way.
Then when Mika Brzezinski insinuates Reiner is calling them racist too, Reiner says: No, do you see any racist people at the Bernie rallies?
Do you see any skinheads?
You can see when somebody s got a tattoo with a swastika and stuff.
C mon Joe, be honest here.
Reiner is then continued to be dismissed by pretty much everyone, because apparently the truth is too much for them to bear.
He also makes the very good point that Trump is not doing a good enough job of dismissing his very racist base of voters.
For goodness sake, he s been endorsed by white supremacists!
Instead, Trump embraces support from pretty much anyone who tosses it his way, racist or not, and that s become very evident.Let s just put it this way, not all Trump supporters are racist, but if you re racist, you re probably voting for Donald Trump.Watch here:WATCH: How does director Rob Reiner explain the millions who voted for @realDonaldTrump?
Here s his simple answer.
https://t.co/HgFwRqhMoB Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) May 5, 2016Featured image via video screen capture