One would think Corey Lewandowski, Trump s former campaign manager, would eventually get tired of swiping at Paul Manafort, the man who replaced him.
He s already stabbed Manafort in the back.
However, when The New York Times published a report on Manafort s secret ledger in the Ukraine, it seems Lewandowski couldn t resist twisting that knife just a bit.Lewandowski was fired over conflicts with Manafort regarding campaign strategy, and they really didn t part on the best of terms.
Earlier this year, Politico reported that these two were at each other s throats to the point where Trump created a new position for Manafort.
This was after Manafort tried to bring Lewandowski down.This isn t the first time that he s gunned for Manafort.
The last time involved suggesting on CNN that Manafort should be the one who gets fired, or takes the high road and resigns, over the disaster that was Melania Trump s plagiarized speech at the RNC.So the spirit of this tweet is very likely Lewandowski crowing over what may well be Manafort s downfall:Secret Ledger in Ukraine Lists Cash for Donald Trump s Campaign Chief https://t.co/7bh7iIHHaY Corey Lewandowski (@CLewandowski_) August 15, 2016Why downfall?
The implications for Manafort are bad, since there s at least $12 million that s slated for him, courtesy of then-President Viktor Yanukovych and his pro-Russian political party.
This information also shows how the businesses with which Manafort worked raided Ukraine s assets and influenced what should have been free elections, among other indications of massive corruption.So Manafort s horrifically corrupt, which is probably why Trump wanted him so badly.
This info isn t quite new, but these are details that weren t previously known.
In other words, it s looking increasingly like Manafort did, indeed, have some kind of hand in helping Russia invade Ukraine, even if it was indirect.
Adam Weinstein also tweeted the article, but says his own work shows that this is just the beginning of Manafort s doom: Speaking as someone who has a story coming this week: This is just the beginning for Manafort.
It gets worse.
https://t.co/5KTUsIHbX1 Adam Weinstein (@AdamWeinstein) August 15, 2016So Lewandowski must be positively gleeful over this.
Not that it matters it s not likely Trump would ever bring him back on board.
Lewandowski, however, likes to go after his enemies relentlessly, if indirectly.
This is one feud that isn t going to end anytime soon.Featured image by Joe Raedle/Getty Images