Now that they have someone they think is their lord and savior in the White House, House Republicans are starting to come together on their plans to get rid of the Affordable Care Act.
They ve been bleating repeal and replace for six years, but the replace part of that has always been a secondary concern (as in, they never really tried to work on it).
Now they re solidifying that with a repeal and delay plan.Or, rather, repeal and let the sh*t hit the fan plan.
They still have no plan for replacing it, but they just have to repeal now so that s what they re going to do.
Then they ll delay actually nullifying it because they think that will keep the whole of the country from descending a dark staircase into chaotic healthcare hell.
Rep. Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, even said: We are not going to rip health care away from Americans.
We will have a transition period so Congress can develop the right policies and the American people can have time to look for better health care options.
Because Congress can totally agree on everything that needs to happen for Americans to have decent access to decent healthcare.
Their delusion on this is deep and complex, too.
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy believes that, once it s officially repealed, fewer people will want to play politics and more will be willing to come to the table and support a Republican solution.Har de har har.
The GOP s very narrow majority in the Senate could make that all but a pipe dream.
No matter, the House has a plan for that too, according to Lamar Alexander, the chairman of the House s health committee: We re going to begin immediately to repeal Obamacare and reconciliation is the only way to do it.
And I believe we will have 51 Republican senators or 52 to vote for that.
No, Republicans aren t playing politics at all here.Is it really going to be so bad, though?
Well, yes, actually, it probably will be.
Experts are warning that this repeal and delay plan is going to cause massive chaos.
Sabrina Corlette, who teaches at the Health Policy Institute at Georgetown, said: The idea that you can repeal the Affordable Care Act with a two- or three-year transition period and not create market chaos is a total fantasy.
Insurers need to know the rules of the road in order to develop plans and set premiums.
If there are problems, they ll just blame Democrats for stalling, for refusing to play ball, for obstructing, or whatever else they think the public will believe if spoon-fed to them.
See?
They ve solved everything!
Except how to replace the ACA.
Their only focus is on repealing right now.
It s not likely they re actually thinking beyond being able to brag to the masses that they finally got rid of the ACA.Featured image by Zach Gibson via Getty Images