This is why Republicans lost the black vote and will continue losing it for generations to come.During a closed door meeting of hedge fund managers, the entertainment consisted of GOP political strategist Karl Rove debating former Al Gore campaign manager Donna Brazile.
Rove is a white man from Texas who frequently appears on Fox News to argue for conservative points of view.
Brazile is a black woman who is currently Vice Chair of the DNC as well as an academic and author.So when Rove decided to joke that Brazile should be grateful to him and the Republican Party because she isn t a slave today, it was not only insulting, it resulted in Brazile crushing Rove with historical fact.
I did you a great favor bringing you into politics in the 1860 campaign and this is how you repay me?
Rove asked.
We re happy you got the right to vote but it wasn t your current party that was responsible for it.
Yeah, you read that right.
Rove literally took credit for the abolition movement and claimed that black people owe the Republican Party because of the end of slavery and the passage of the 15th Amendment.Of course, Republicans were liberals at that time and Democrats were the conservatives.
Today, it s the opposite and Republicans dominate the South, where racism still flourishes and Confederate history is still celebrated.But Brazile fired back by pointing out that women did not have the right to vote until 1920 and black people did not have their right to vote truly protected until the Voting Right Act of 1965, which the conservative-leaning Supreme Court gutted in 2013, which has led to red states instituting voter suppression laws designed to block black people from exercising their right to vote.And then she really let Karl Rove and the Republican Party have it by blasting them for their hypocrisy and the fact that they have to reach back in time to the 1860s to find an example of something good the party has done.
I don t find it strange when Karl Rove brings up Abraham Lincoln because they can t bring up anything else, Brazile told ThinkProgress.
It s easier for them speak of Lincoln s accomplishments than what they are doing today on voting rights.
They don t have a future reference.
They have the past.
Exactly.
Flawless victory.Featured image via Wikimedia