A recent poll from Quinnipiac University has stunned the political world when it showed Hillary Clinton losing serious ground against Donald Trump in key swing states like Ohio, Florida, and Pennsylvania.However, what the media isn t reporting on is an even newer poll that shows Clinton s strong numbers against Trump in swing states (including Florida).A new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll shows Secretary Clinton crushing Donald Trump in Florida, Colorado, North Carolina and Virginia.In Colorado, she beats Trump by eight points, 43-35.
In Florida (which the Quinnipiac Poll had Trump beating her by 3 points), Clinton is beating the Republican nominee by seven points, 44-37.
Then there s north Carolina, where the former secretary is beating Trump by six points.
It should be important to remember that President Obama lost North Carolina in 2012 after winning it in 2008.Finally in Virginia, in which the state s senator, Tim Kaine, is rumored to be a V.P.
pick Clinton beats Trump by nine points, 44-35, her biggest lead in a swing state.All these states make up 66 electorate votes, a sizeable chunk in the electoral tally.Not only does Clinton lead Trump in these states, she is also more well liked than their billionaire blowhard.
The only thing Trump leads in is in unfavorability.While the media continues to harp on and on about Clinton being an unfavorable and disliked candidate, they somehow ignore the fact that Trump is losing in key battleground states because he is even more disliked.For someone who describes themselves as the king of polls, Trump has certainly been quiet about his losing edge against Clinton in the states that matter the most.
The Clinton campaign has not brushed off the Trump campaign.
They expect a close race.
Remember, there s only one candidate who said they ll be so great they ll win California: hint, it wasn t Clinton.Democrats need to quit freaking out.
No one is underestimating Trump.
This is a presidential race.
It s still four months until election day.
A lot can happen and will happen.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images