Following the horrific tragedy in Dallas, Texas, the Congressional Black Caucus expressed grief, sorrow, and outrage at the deadly violence that took place after what had been a day of peaceful protests.
Amid their messages of mourning and healing as a nation, members also demanded that congress finally hold a vote on several pieces of legislation that focus on tightening gun restrictions.Representative G.K. Butterfield, Democrat of North Carolina and the chairman of the caucus, said that in the wake of the despicable crimes in Dallas, the Caucus was determined to continue our fight to remove guns from the hands of terrorists and would-be criminals.
We come to this place each week to represent our constituents who are in pain.
As of June 30, just a few days ago, 491 Americans have been fatally shot by the police; most of those were African-American.Last night, despicable crimes were committed against Dallas police officers, and when the dust settled five of them were dead as a result of an organized execution by criminals who possess guns and use them to the extreme.
And so the Congressional Black Caucus convenes today to say to America we are continuing our fight to remove guns from the hands of terrorists and would-be criminals.Democrats have been fighting for several pieces of legislation.
These measures include an effort bolster mandatory background checks and No Fly No Buy, which would stop suspected terrorists on no-fly lists from being able to legally purchase guns.
Republicans have staunchly refused to take any action on the measures.Republicans, what on Earth are you, why are you recoiling and not giving us a debate on gun violence?
Mr. Butterfield said.
Why are you recoiling and not giving us a debate on gun violence?
Why not give it a hearing, give us a debate, give us an up-or-down vote on our legislation on gun violence?
Why?Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, led last month s sit-in on the House floor over gun control legislation following the mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando.
He urged protesters to remain peaceful, preaching the non-violent ways of the Civil Rights movement, in which he was an influential leader.There s no room in our society for violence; we respect law enforcement.
There needs to be greater training of law enforcement and sometimes I feel that maybe not only those of us that engage in nonviolent protest but police officers need to be taught the way of peace, the way of love, the way of nonviolence, to respect the dignity and the worth of every human being.It doesn t matter whether black or white, Latino, Asian-American or Native American; we are one family living in one house.
We must learn to live together as brothers and sisters.
If not, we will perish as fools.
We have too many guns.
There has been too much violence.
And we must act.Watch the Black Caucus demand congress hold a vote on gun control legislation here:Featured image via video screen capture