UPDATE: No #BlackLivesMatter Protests PlannedChicago has no shortage of thugs.
What they do have a shortage of is support from the #BlackLivesMatter terrorists and Obama Regime.
You don t hear our Community Organizer In Chief running to a microphone every time a young black man or woman is murdered at the hands of another black man or woman.
Sadly, it doesn t fit their narrative.
This young boy s murder is far more tragic than the plight of the Muslim boy, with a history of discipline issues, who took a fake bomb to school in Texas on 9-11 and was rightly punished for his behavior by school officials.
The phony outrage that Obama showed the world over this little fake clock boy s arrest should sicken every American.
It is especially disturbing when one considers Obama s deafening silence over the horrific gang violence that plagues his hometown of Chicago.
Where were the tweets of outrage from the White House over the loss of this beautiful young boy s life?
Crickets On Friday, prosecutors laid out their case against a man accused of murdering 9-year-old Tyshawn Lee on Nov. 2Corey Morgan, 27, of suburban Lansing, was charged in the murder.
Police have one other man in custody who has not yet been charged, and a third man, Kevin Edwards, is also wanted in the slaying.Prosecutors say Corey Morgan (left) and Kevin Edwards planned the heinous murder of 9-year-old Tyshawn Lee.Assistant State s Attorney George Canellis said Friday the shooting stemmed from an ongoing feud between Morgan s gang, the BBG (Bang Bang Gang)/Terror Dome faction of the Black P Stones and the Killaward faction of the Gangster Disciples.The feud came to a boil after an Oct. 13 shooting in which Morgan s brother, Tracey Morgan was killed and his mother was wounded.
Morgan was so enraged he threatened to shoot grandmas, mamas, kids and all in retaliation, prosecutors said.Tyshawn was hit in his back, forearm and head, and part of his thumb was shot off as if he was raising his hand to block the shots, Canellis said.
This murder was committed in a cold, calculated and premeditated manner, Canellis said.Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy vowed to destroy the group responsible for the boy s brutal murder.
They are going to be obliterated, he said.
That gang just signed its death warrant.
McCarthy did not detail each suspect s role in the shooting.
We know that there were three individuals involved in this, he said.Morgan s arrest comes nearly a month after Tyshawn s Nov. 2 shooting death.Police are hunting for Kevin Edwards, also suspected in the shooting.Court documents paint a disturbing picture of the planned attack, explaining that Morgan and his accomplices allegedly saw Tyshawn playing on the swings in a playlot with his basketball beside him.
One of the suspects allegedly started dribbling Tyshawn s ball, ultimately luring him into the alley where police say he was executed.
Read more on what happened in court Friday here.Tyshawn Lee Case: Cory Morgan ProfferVia: DNAinfochicago