Trying to catch the liar of liars in a lie isn t hard.
Getting him and his campaign to acknowledge that Trump is the liar of liars is.
Same thing with bullying, but The New York Times put together a spread of all the bullyish things Trump has said and tweeted, and to whom.
Now, the Toronto Star s Daniel Dale has been tracking Trump s lies for just six weeks, and the paper has compiled a complete list of those lies, which you can find here.There are literally hundreds of lies in Trump s speeches.
They re not all 100% unique, but this is probably the final and ultimate proof that Trump will say anything to smear anyone, including his enemies, while keeping his supporters happy.Is there any presidential candidate in history that has lied this much?
Tons of people claim Hillary is a master liar, but first, she s actually more honest than most politicians.
Second, even if she could be considered anything like a master liar, she still could not compete with Trump the Liar in any way, shape or form.The Star put the lies into a whopping 20 categories: Clinton s policies, WTF, Daesh/Middle East, Clinton s record, African Americans/Inner cities, The Clintons corruption, Rigged election, Trade/Economy, Health care, Trump s endorsements, Refugees/Immigration, Polls, Obama s record, The campaign, Russia, Trump s record, Taxes, Sex assault allegations, Clinton s health and Government corruption.They also compiled a list of the top 10 types of lies Trump has told and gave more detailed analysis, beginning with, The electoral system is rigged.
Of course, it s rigged against him: After plummeting in the polls after the first two debates, Trump began to repeatedly question the fairness of the election.
Rigged became his catchword.He claimed Hillary Clinton campaign workers hired thugs to cause violence at his rallies, twisting the evidence from an undercover video to unfairly disparage Clinton.
He claimed there was widespread voter fraud in Philadelphia, Chicago and St. Louis cities with large black populations that heavily favour Democrats.In Greeley, Colo., Trump told his supporters if they don t trust mail-in ballots, they should vote again in person.
So, one did.
Trump supporter Terri Lynn Rote, a 55-year-old from Iowa, was charged by police for suspicion of voting twice.
Nobody s committing voter suppression and fraud quite like Trumpsters and Republicans.Another is, Muslims are risky.
This touches on his assertions that we know nothing about refugees coming from Syria, who could be the great Trojan Horse of our time: His claims that Syrian refugees 99 per cent are Muslim are terrorists plays to the fears of the other, even though they are extensively vetted and are predominantly women and children.
And their numbers is nowhere near Trump s claims about 13,000 have been admitted to the United States in 2016.
The polls favour Trump.
Har de har har Trump only looks at the polls he likes, and they re usually unscientific online polls or other dubious polls.
Very few of the established, scientific polls favor him.
Nevertheless: It seems clear Trump manipulates, exaggerates or makes up polls that make it sound as if he is doing better than he actually is.
This poll denialism gives his supporters licence to dismiss negative polling data, suggests CNN.His false claims cast doubt on the legitimacy of mainstream polling and perhaps even the vote itself.
If supporters feel Trump should be doing better, then the idea of a rigged election seems more credible.On Oct. 24, he said I won the last two debates, and every poll showed it.
In fact, every scientific poll showed that he lost.Of course, when unscientific online polls came out in his favour, Trump was quick to promote and exaggerate those numbers.
But these are just a few of his biggest, most repeated lies.
He has also:And so many more, just in the last six weeks!
Yes, many of them are repeats, but lies are lies.
If Trump sees this, he ll likely throw a livid fit about it and claim that the paper s lying, and continue to sell the myth that he s not the liar of liars being caught in a squillion lies.To see the full list and detailed analysis, click here.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images