Donald Trump is now alleging that the United States presidential election will be rigged against him.
As per usual, Trump s allegations are not supported by any compelling evidence.
His supporters have decided that the election will be swayed in Clinton s favor by the big scary liberal media.
Trump campaign top advisor, Rudy Guiliani, repeated these claims during an interview on ABC New s This Week Sunday morning.Non-stop conspiracy theories about the media s bias against Trump are a response to Trump s plummeting polling numbers which show that Democratic challenger Hillary Clinton is enjoying a comfortable lead.This Week Co-Host, Martha Raddatz, presented a remark that Newt Gingrich had given to the Washington Post: The current race is which of these two is the more unacceptable, because right now, neither of them is acceptable.
Trump is helping her to win by proving he is more unacceptable than she is.
Raddatz then asks Guiliani, Is that the way you see it?
Guiliani responds, saying that no he does not see it the same way as Gingrich does.
He then claims that the media has not hit Clinton as hard as it has hit Trump.
According to Guiliani, this is evidenced by the negative media attention that Trump has received during his feud with the Khan family, compared to the media attention that Clinton received because of Benghazi.
And I think her comments Hillary s comments just don t get the same attention that Trump s do.
For example, she lied to a Gold Star mother.
She lied to pre Patricia Smith, the mother of Sean Smith, who who was killed at Benghazi, I believe, because of her incompetence, her incompetence in failing to secure that mission.
And she lied to her on September 14th, 2012, right at the coffin.
She said it was due to a video.
So I think that s far more serious or at least it said get as much attention as all of the attention that was paid to, you know, the comments that were made about the Khan family.
Ah, the press isn t talking enough about Clinton and Benghazi.
That s why Trump s campaign is floundering.
It couldn t possibly be that Trump is a loudmouth asshat who decided it would be a grand idea to repeatedly insult the family of a deceased war hero, could it?Trump supporters will say anything to try and rationalize away the fact that Trump is a dangerous man who cannot bully his way into the White House.You can watch the segment below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2DClsluYx8Featured image from video screenshot