Well, that has to be embarrassing.Ever since Election Day, Trump has insisted that he won the popular vote despite the fact that Hillary Clinton actually won it by nearly 3 million votes.According to Trump, Hillary only won it because of voter fraud, accusing nearly three million people of voting illegally.In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016Losing the popular vote has been a sore spot for Trump as his fragile ego just can t handle rejection.And so, Trump decided to create a panel to investigate.I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017As you may also recall, Trump has repeatedly refused to create a panel to investigate the Russian interference in the election that helped him win.Well, that s about to change.According to the Boston Globe, two members of the panel are calling for looking at Russian hacking of voting systems in more than two dozen states, a departure from what Trump intended the panel to investigate.New Hampshire Secretary of State Bill Gardner and Maine Secretary of State Matthew Dunlap have requested that the panel look at Russian interference, which Trump has repeatedly claimed never happened despite evidence to the contrary.
There s stuff coming out now that states were hacked in this election, Gardner said.
If you are looking at the integrity of the election, you have to look at things that might compromise that integrity, Dunlap added.
That includes things that might happen electronically.
And Kansas Secretary of State and Trump ally Kris Kobach agrees with them.
In the initial descriptions of the commission, election security and the integrity of equipment and voter databases was not specifically described, Kobach said.
But if it s something the commission wants to discuss, we can.
In short, Trump s own voter fraud panel is going to take a look at Russian interference in the 2016 Election, which is probably the last thing Trump wanted them to investigate.
But the problem with investigating the voter fraud that Trump claims cost him the popular vote is that instances of voter fraud are negligible.
Even Republican state officials have criticized Trump for making such an outrageous claim.
So it s likely the panel simply didn t have much to do because voter fraud is so rare in our country.
Now they are going to investigate real voter fraud and Trump must be terrified because he slipped up on Thursday morning by admitting that Russia did interfere, only he also attempted to blame it on President Obama.By the way, if Russia was working so hard on the 2016 Election, it all took place during the Obama Admin.
Why didn t they stop them?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2017So not only is Congress and special prosecutor Robert Mueller investigating, Trump s own panel is investigating now.
The only walls Trump is seeing right now are the ones closing in on him and his treachery.Featured Image: Jason Kempin and Sean Gallup/Getty Images