As more and more leaks get out, it s obvious that Donald Trump is not just a dictator, he s so insecure that aides have to hand him daily pacifiers in the form of fake and flattering news stories to keep the man baby from having even more Twitter meltdowns.The key to keeping Trump s Twitter habit under control, according to six former campaign officials, is to ensure that his personal media consumption includes a steady stream of praise.
And when no such praise was to be found, staff would turn to friendly outlets to drum some up and make sure it made its way to Trump s desk.
If candidate Trump was upset about unfair coverage, it was productive to show him that he was getting fair coverage from outlets that were persuadable, said former communications director Sam Nunberg.
The same media that our base digests and prefers is going to be the base for his support.
I would assume the president would like to see positive and preferential treatment from those outlets and that would help the operation overall.
Source: PoliticoApparently Trump s constant accusations of fake news has some legitimacy, but not how Trump or his supporters would like.Trump is quite selective about where he gets his news.
He does read print, like the New York Times, but he also watches a lot a lot of Fox News.
Remember when Trump touted a terrorist attack in Sweden that never happened?
That allegedly came straight from Fox News.My statement as to what s happening in Sweden was in reference to a story that was broadcast on @FoxNews concerning immigrants & Sweden.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 19, 2017It was a fake story.
We can t say whether it was planted by Trump s aides, but it might as well have been for all the anti-immigrant political fodder it provided.The ramifications of a president who has to be sheltered from the real news are chilling.
As the administration rolls on, Trump will continue to make adversaries around the world and in the media.
Trump s unfiltered Twitter habit is potentially a national security issue.
His aides obviously see this, but a president who is completely out of touch with reality, and is only willing to acknowledge fawning praise is equally dangerous.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images