The Hill During a recent interview, Clooney describes conservative criticism of Democrats associated with film producer Harvey Weinstein as a little pot and kettle, noting the prior sexual harassment allegations levied against conservative figures like Roger Ailes and Bill O Reilly.
Yeah, that s a little pot and kettle there, unfortunately.
But I think that everything gets politicized these days.
The reality is that this is a problem deeply ingrained in our society, Clooney told The Daily Beast when asked about criticisms coming from conservatives in the days since a New York Times report that detailed accusations of sexual harassment against Weinstein.
It was something that was talked about a lot on the left with Roger Ailes, Bill O Reilly, and Donald Trump, and it s something that s going to be talked about a lot on the right with Harvey Weinstein, Clooney added.
I think that rather than politicize it, there should be talk on both sides about the really bad behavior by powerful men and the horrible acts they commit.
It s pretty crazy to me.
Page Six A former ER actress claims that she was sexually and racially harassed daily on set and George Clooney helped blacklist her from Hollywood when she complained.B.S.Clooney helped blacklist me when I spoke up abt harassment on ER.
'women who dont play the game lose career'I did https://t.co/ur466NCkII Ghoul Please (@vanessathought) October 10, 2017 Clooney helped blacklist me when I spoke up abt harassment on ER.
women who don t play the game lose career I did, tweeted Vanessa Marquez, who played a nurse on the show s first three seasons.#NewPicWhen ur racially&sexually harassed on set daily&go2your producer(John Wells)for help in '95?U r blacklisted from Hollywood 4Ever #ER pic.twitter.com/ptM06gWW7M Ghoul Please (@vanessathought) July 7, 2017She accused actor Eriq La Salle and a crew member of being p sy grabbers and said racial abuse about her Mexican heritage came from Anthony, Noah, Julianna, referring to cast members, Anthony Edwards, Noah Wyle, and Julianna Margulies.Marquez said she complained to executive producer John Wells.
Wells was the boss&I 1st reported it to him.His 1st question: Did George do something to u, she tweeted.