North Carolina Republicans are reeling after a Fourth Circuit Court Judge decided last Friday what every person on the left already knows.
North Carolina s GOP implemented a series of voting reforms that are a blatant attempt to disenfranchise voters of color.
On Saturday, Rev.
William Barber, a respected political activist, appeared on MSNBC s A.M. Joy where he slammed North Carolina Republicans for passing these discriminatory laws.The main target of Barber s ire is North Carolina s Republican governor, Pat McCrory.
McCrory, while he wasn t busy reappropriating North Carolina s disaster relief funds to fight for the right to discriminate against LGBTQ people, signed voter disenfranchisement reforms into law.
He is also now trying to do everything he can to keep those laws in place, including appealing to the Supreme Court.Barber touched on this matter during the interview saying: I think the Supreme Court will leave it like it is.
This was a unanimous decision.
The judge who wrote the decision actually dissented when we asked for a preliminary injunction.
When she received the whole record, she reviewed it and saw that this was not disparate impact, but intentional discrimination.
Barber then went on to compare McCrory to the infamous racist George Wallace: The suggestion that these jurists who are above reproach are involved in some kind of conspiracy, a partisan conspiracy, you know that sounds more like some of the things that George Wallace said back in the 60 s, rather than what a 21st-century governor should be saying.
As other voting rights advocates have noted, the court decision under discussion is one of the greatest anti-disenfranchisement victories in recent memory.
Given the consistently unanimous legal agreement n the matter, it is hard to believe that McCrory will get his way and continue the GOP s nefarious scheme to keep voters of color from practicing their rights as Americans.You can watch the segment below, in full.Featured image via video screen capture