Jacksonville, Florida police are investigating a man after he stood in front of the City Council and told them he spent most of his life molesting children and getting away with it.The comments came during a Tuesday night debate over Jacksonville s Human Rights Ordinance, which would further protect the LGBT community in the city.
Roy Bay, 56, stood up during the public comment part of the council meeting and said: I lived most of my life sexually assaulting kids and never went to jail.
Because why?
Kids believed me that hey this is, you re alright son.
This is not a problem.
Okay?
This happens in homosexual lifestyle.
Bay claims that the reason he started molesting children was because he was sexually assaulted by the homosexual community from the age of ten to twelve.The WHOLE homosexual community?
Really?
WOW.He said that he entered into the life of homosexuality afterwards and that is when he started molesting kids.
He then claimed that in 1995 he became a born-again child of God and God set him free from his lifestyle of raping innocent children.
When he mentioned God some members of the crowd began to clap and say amen.
News4Jax reports that the sheriff s department was informed of Bay s criminal confession and they said that there will be an investigation into his alleged crimes.
There is no statute of limitations for child molestation in the state of Florida if the victims are under the age of twelve.
So, it is entirely possible that his LGBT-bashing confession might land him in prison.Bay s assertions that the gay community is filled with predators like himself is completely unfounded.
UC Davis published a 1982 study by Dr. A. Nicholas Groth that found that children are not in greater danger of being molested by homosexuals than heterosexuals:Are homosexual adults in general sexually attracted to children and are preadolescent children at greater risk of molestation from homosexual adults than from heterosexual adults?
There is no reason to believe so.
The research to date all points to there being no significant relationship between a homosexual lifestyle and child molestation.
There appears to be practically no reportage of sexual molestation of girls by lesbian adults, and the adult male who sexually molests young boys is not likely to be homosexual.This is because, contrary to what Bay says, rape is never about sexuality, it is about power.
The desire to have complete control over somebody is what fuels rapists and if Bay is the predator he claims to be, that is likely the reason he was raping children.
The crowd members who shouted amen and clapped are probably the same imbeciles who support known child molester Josh Duggar.
People like Duggar and Bay hide behind their Bible and commit atrocious crimes all while pushing disgusting stereotypes about the LGBT community to hide their own crimes.Hopefully, the police will find some evidence about this guy s crimes and put him in prison where he belongs.Watch:Featured image via video screenshot