U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry delivered a rousing and inspiring commencement speech to the graduating class of Northeastern University on Saturday, defining the diverse and educated Americans as Donald Trump s worst nightmare.
Kerry addressed the students as they prepare to go out into the world and truly begin their adult lives, finding the careers, the friends and the partners that will form the focus of their lives.
They will be America s next doctors, educators, carers, scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and yes, lawmakers.
Standing before the, Kerry described what he saw as the basic failure of the Trump campaign why the politics of hate and division cannot win the whole of America today, and certainly not tomorrow.
You are the most diverse class in Northeastern s history.
he said.
In other words, you are Donald Trump s worst nightmare.
The room broke out into massive applause, the students signaling clearly that they have not been dragged into the gutter politics fomented by the Trump campaign.The Secretary of State hit out at Donald Trump s bizarre and basic plans on immigration and foreign policy too the sum total of which seem to be a) insult people and b) build a wall.
There are no walls big enough to stop people from anywhere, tens of thousands of miles away, who are determined to take their own lives while they target others, Kerry reminded the GOP candidate.Kerry also had something to say about exactly what makes America great, and that it involves more than simply repeating it over and over again while parading about in front of a flag.
We re not exceptional because we say we are.
he said, adding.
Greatness isn t about bragging, it s about doing!
It s about never being satisfied, it s about testing the limits of what we can achieve together.
The speech totally lit up the graduating students, and serves as a reminder of the stark choice facing Americans come Election Day 2016.
Whomever the Democrats choose as their candidate, the offer to America will be one of hope, progress, building America from the ground up every child, every school, every hospital, every road, every bridge to invest in a nation fit to face the challenges of the 21st century.The GOP will be offering the grim prospect of American regression.
The blending of church and state, the withdrawal of women s reproductive rights, backward steps on understanding and prosecution of rape and sexual assault, a disrespect for education, science and technology which could push America even further behind in the most important fields of our time.
A hollowed out, asset-stripped shell of a once great nation stripped of all value, its people left to pick up the pieces.It is a serious choice, and it will be life and death not only in terms of Trump s likely disastrous foreign policy, but because of what will happen to Obamacare, Medicare, and Medicaid if he comes to power.
Make the right choice America.Featured Image via Screengrab