Released from Guantanamo and then making his way back to Canada thanks to Obama, this murderer is free but SFC Speer is dead This deification of an al-Qaida-trained murderer is a slap in the face to every American soldier and every military family that has sacrificed to combat Islamic jihad.
A Canadian judge ruled this week that Omar Khadr poses no public safety threat.
Tell that to the children of Sergeant First Class Christopher J. Speer and the surviving American soldiers who valiantly fought Khadr on the battlefield.In 2012, Khadr pleaded guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty and guilty to five charges related to the killing of Speer, a 28-year-old medic with the U.S. Special Forces.
This young American hero died in Afghanistan in 2002 during an ambush by al-Qaida operatives.
Just days before he gave his life, Speer had fearlessly walked onto a minefield to rescue two wounded Afghan children.
It was Khadr, born and bred an Islamic jihadist by his terrorist father, who lobbed the fatal grenade in the war zone.
Another American soldier, SFC Layne Morris, survived the attack, but was blinded in one eye for life.In a sealed plea deal at Guantanamo Bay, Khadr admitted to throwing the grenade.
He admitted to attempted murder, conspiracy, spying and providing material support to terrorism.
He signed a 50-paragraph stipulation that classified him as an enemy belligerent because he has purposefully and materially supported hostilities against the United States and its coalition partners and documented his family s intimate association and friendship with al-Qaida leaders Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri and Muhammad Atef.Don t believe the international human rights bleeding hearts.
The Khadr family is rightfully known as Canada s First Family of Terror.
This so-called child soldier and good kid was a full-blown Muslim soldier of jihad; he trained one-on-one in weaponry, explosives and Jew hatred.
A then-teenage Khadr bragged to a U.S. official that the proudest moment of his life was constructing and planting IEDs to kill U.S. forces.
Gloating over the Alberta judge s decision to let Khadr loose, his radical leftwing lawyer railed against Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper as a bigot.
His fan club thinks he deserves a medal.
No, really.
A Toronto Sun columnist argued last week that the jihadist deserves some kind of recognition along the lines of the country s Order of Canada for the dignity and stoicism with which he s borne the mingy behaviour of Canada s governments.
Disgusting.
This deification of an al-Qaida-trained murderer is a slap in the face to every American soldier and every military family that has sacrificed to combat Islamic jihad.But don t look for our government to raise its voice in protest.
It is because of jihad-coddler Barack Obama, working quietly to empty Gitmo, that Khadr found his way back to Canada in the first place.