This is why John McCain really regretted blaming President Obama for the Orlando mass shooting.On Thursday, McCain told reporters in a Senate hallway that President Obama is directly responsible for the mass shooting in Orlando that resulted in 50 people being killed and 53 people being wounded.
Barack Obama is directly responsible for it, because when he pulled everybody out of Iraq, al-Qaeda went to Syria, became ISIS, and ISIS is what it is today thanks to Barack Obama s failures, McCain said.Reporters gave McCain a fair chance to walk his comments back but he only repeated his claim.
He pulled everybody out of Iraq, and I predicted at the time that ISIS would go unchecked, and there would be attacks on the United States of America.
It s a matter of record, so he is directly responsible.
You can listen to McCain s remarks below:Not long after, McCain issued a statement claiming he misspoke even though he made his remarks twice.
I misspoke, McCain said.
I did not mean to imply that the President was personally responsible.
I was referring to President Obama s national security decisions, not the President himself.
As I have said, President Obama s decision to completely withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq in 2011 led to the rise of ISIL.
I and others have long warned that the failure of the President s policy to deny ISIL safe haven would allow the terrorist organization to inspire, plan, direct or conduct attacks on the United States and Europe as they have done in Paris, Brussels, San Bernardino and now Orlando.
Of course, McCain is wrong about President Obama pulling the troops out of Iraq.
That was a decision made by President Bush in 2008.
President Obama merely honored the agreement signed by the former president.But McCain could be the former Senator from Arizona because of his inflammatory accusation against President Obama.As it turns out, donations have been pouring in for his opponent Democratic Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick to the tune of at least $100,000 alone since McCain made the remarks.
McCain angered many people with his disrespectful comments about President Obama and so they are responding by supporters his challenger.In addition, a poll touted by Kirkpatrick s campaign in the wake of McCain s remarks shows him losing to her by two points.Kirkpatrick spokesman D.B.
Mitchell slammed McCain for his remarks and urged people to help oust him from Congress.
John McCain s reckless and appalling comments about the Orlando mass shooting disappointed thousands of Arizonans and people from across the nation, said Kirkpatrick spokesman D.B.
Mitchell.
But his actions are just further proof that after 33 years in Washington McCain has changed, and now Americans are witnessing that he s no longer a maverick.
Arizonans know it s time for new principled leadership, and that s why Ann Kirkpatrick saw the largest one-day fundraising number of the campaign.
We need a senator who will put our national security before partisan politics.
We must do everything we can to elect Ann to the Senate and we are asking you to make a donation today.
John McCain is currently facing one of the toughest re-election efforts for a Republican this year.
Losing his race could very well tip the balance in the Senate and give the majority back to the Democratic Party.You can donate to Kirkpatrick s campaign here.Featured Image: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images