At this point, there is no doubt that Vladimir Putin s Russian regime hacked the 2016 election, and they did it with one purpose: To elect Donald Trump President of the United States.
Now that this effort has been successful, many Republicans are doing all they can to pretend that this isn t as serious as it is, since it benefits their party and chosen American leader.
However, one American hero is FURIOUS with his fellow Republicans over their response to these Russian hacks, and that is former prisoner of war and Arizona Senator John McCain.Senator McCain appeared on CNN s State of the Union on Sunday morning, and had some very strong warnings for those who refuse to take the fact that Russia hacked our elections for the threat to this great republic that it is.
McCain said to host Jake Tapper: This is the sign of a possible unraveling of the world order that was established after World War II, which has made one of the most peaceful periods in the history of the world.
This is serious business.
If they re able to harm the electoral process, they may destroy democracy, which is based on free and fair elections.
Because of the gravity of this situation, McCain is going up against his fellow Republicans and calling for a special committee to investigate the activities of the Russians and especially Vladimir Putin, and insists that it must be done in a timely and bipartisan fashion, without regard for political gains or consequences.
Thus far, McCain and South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham are the only ones being forceful here, as the two most powerful Republicans in Congress, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, are instead choosing to roll over for Donald Trump.
However, McCain isn t letting up.
He has written a letter to McConnell, signed by fellow Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, as well as Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer ( D-NY) and Democratic Senator Jack Reed (D-RI).
The letter said, in part: Cyber is the rare kind of all-encompassing challenge for which the Congress s jurisdictional boundaries are an impediment to sufficient oversight and legislative action.
Only a select committee that is time-limited, cross-jurisdictional, and purpose-driven can address the challenge of cyber, the letter said.
We believe it is justified by the extraordinary scope and scale of the cyber problem.
This is what bipartisan patriotism looks like.
Direct threats to our democracy like what Russia has done is nothing to play with simply because it benefits one s own party.
I never though I d say this, but why can t more Republicans be like John McCain and Lindsey Graham?McCain continued to Tapper: There s no doubt they were interfering and no doubt it was a cyber-attack.
The question now is how much and what damage and what should the United States of America do?
And so far, we ve been totally paralyzed.
I m sure that when Vladimir Putin was told quote cut it out unquote, I m sure that Vladimir Putin immediately stopped all cyber-activities.
The truth is, they are hacking every single day.
So true.
This is a threat that must be met head on, and with as much force as possible, party politics be damned.
Our very way of life depends upon it.Watch McCain s remarks below:[ad3media campaign= 1398 ]Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images