They re calling them Y all Qaeda.
It s all at once appropriate and ridiculous.
The fact that a group of armed traitors are occupying a federal building at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge shouldn t be treated as a cute internet meme, but there it is.Rather, this is serious business made more serious by the infuriating reality that local law enforcement appears to be allowing it to happen without much interference.According to The Oregonian, police officers were nowhere to be found during the Saturday rally at the site which led to several members seizing the headquarters at the refuge.
Furthermore, law enforcement hasn t revealed its plans if any to repel the militia from the government land.
And now that Ammon Bundy, the son of Nevada secessionist ranched Cliven Bundy, has taken over as the leader of the occupation, the militiamen are sure to be joined by more attention-seeking seditionists.But going back to the lack of law enforcement presence.
Do we really need to underscore the lopsided injustice here?
Do we really need to emphasize the fact that if this had been Black Lives Matter activists or, hell, Islamic terrorists, how the facility would ve been surrounded and the situation greeted with law enforcement gunfire.
If just one African-American gunman has stepped foot into the building, recent history and more than enough video footage has proved that the black gunman would ve been decimated in an onslaught of police gunfire.
Full stop.Instead, a group of secessionist weekend warriors with enough disposable income to play military dress-em-up are being allowed to seize government property taxpayer-owned land and facilities in an effort to exert their independence from the rest of the nation, law enforcement appears to be completely blas about it.
Why?
The answer should be obvious.So, what next?
If these bastards want a fight, and if they want to die for their stupid cause, give it to them.
They ve seized our land.
Mine.
Yours.
It s time to stop dicking around and show them they re not above the law just because of their white privilege.Featured image via Twitter