Following a horribly disastrous weekend for Donald Trump, his campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, seems to have found her feet again.
She s back on the airwaves trying to tear down Hillary Clinton in her usual desperate attempts to deflect attention away from her lord and savior s terrible character.
In doing so, she brought up Hillary s poll numbers with Anderson Cooper, and the conversation is just absurd:KELLYANNE CONWAY: Well, I think Hillary Clinton s been depressing Democratic turnout.
My goodness, why is this woman at 46 percent?
She s like the magic 46.
She s 46 percent in the new NBC News Wall Street Journal poll, she s 46 percent in a lot of the swing states COOPER: She s ahead of your candidate, though.CONWAY: Pardon me?
Well, Anderson, she s running as the first female president who has a sitting president and First Lady much more popular than she ll ever be.
She s got a COOPER: Your candidate is below 40 percent.CONWAY: Is that a question?
You re asking me about COOPER: Well, you re saying 46 percent is bad, but 37 percent is worse.CONWAY: You asked me about Hillary Clinton.
You asked me if I thought right, one need not be a pollster to know that.Pardon us while we clear our ears and rapidly blink our eyes to be sure we heard what we think we heard.
How on earth does an experienced pollster like Conway bring up her deity s opponent s poll numbers as though they re terrible when Trump s are considerably worse?
How does she not know how math works?How does a presidential campaign manager go on national television and make that much of a fool of herself?It s both hilarious and sad that Cooper had to give her a math lesson that s so basic pre-schoolers already know it.
Watch below:Conway is actually a perfect match for Trump because she s just like him.
She gives non-answers to questions, and when the conversation starts heading over towards facts, she gets upset, and even throws a fit if she can t turn it around.
Case in point: Speaking on CNN again today, she tried to deflect, deflect, deflect by saying Trump bragging about sexual assault happened 10 to 15 years ago.
Then, like a good little Trumpkin, she brought up Bill Clinton s affairs and accusations of sexual assault (which were never proven) which were even longer ago.And she called Trump a gentleman.
Har de har har.
Don t make us laugh too hard it hurts.That she needed a math lesson in order to keep a conversation on track is laughable, at best.
She might fancy herself a spin master, but the media s patience with her and her spin is wearing very thin.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video