For everyone other than maybe his investment partners, his wife, and his white nationalist supporters, most people look at Donald Trump with utter disgust.
No, not because he s orange with something that can only be described as an endangered species on his head, but rather because of his attitude towards life and how he apparently thinks people and things should be treated.
Just by listening to his hissy fit over the Fox News debate, he has to make it about ratings and how he s really the thing that drives the entire event.
To put it mildly he s full of himself, to be absolutely accurate, he s an egomaniac with Narcissistic Personality Disorder.And this isn t anything new for Trump.
The Republican frontrunner has always been this braggadocios character who sees himself as the absolute best at everything and thinks everything he touches turns to gold.
If he had a nice personality, many people would be able to look past this sort of ego, but since he s also an ass, well, people are going to call him out on it.The folks over at Sesame Street did just that back in 2005 when they created the character Donald Grump that Oscar the Grouch and all the other trash-loving grouches looked up to and admired.
They put the word GRUMP all over everything, just like Trump does with his name.
Oscar the Grouch in the introduction leading up the appearance of Grump explains to show staple Maria: Donald Grump happens to have the most trash of any grouch in the world His name is on every piece of trash in town.
Then after a brilliant song completely satirizing Trump, Donald Grump emerges and is everything you d ever imagine the muppet to be, with lines like: Who s name equals TRASH, to you and to me?
and the Grump saying Who do you wish you all could be?
Elmo s even turned down from being Mr. Grump s helper because he s too nice.
However, Grump changes his mind when he hears Elmo is nice AND annoying.
Qualities both Grump and Trump know help manipulate people to his fancy.
Grump also yells at Maria when he doesn t like what she says by saying, Scram, you re fired!
And when she says, you can t fire me he says, I just did.
Which is all very foreshadowing to the revelation that Trump truly wants all Latinos to scram.But enough of me explaining what happens.
The entire thing is just pure comedy gold and absolutely accurate.Enjoy.Video/Featured image: YouTube