The state of Israel has been able to cover up its racism to the world quite effectively over the years through the use of propaganda and a pretense to peace with the Palestinians.
Some apologists for today s crazy right-wing government even argue that if only the current prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, would be replaced by a dove, then peace could be achieved with the Palestinians.
However, the lack of peace and the fascism in Israel today is not rooted in its prime minister; rather, it is rooted in the ideology of Zionism that drives him and most Israelis.
Zionists believe in an exclusively Jewish state and they always have.
The only difference these days is that under the current right wing government, psychotic Israelis are the official main-stream of society and they burn babies and execute Palestinians without hesitation and they know that the government will protect them.This was all on display in Tel Aviv as thousands of Israelis came out in solidarity for the Israeli soldier who executed a Palestinian lying incapacitated on the ground a month ago.
The soldier, Elor Azarya, who was filmed shooting the Palestinian last month in the occupied Palestinian town Al-Khalil (Hebron), is facing manslaughter charges.
However, Israelis who injure or murder Palestinians rarely face consequences.Watch video of soldier executing Palestinian here: [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P-Bl9zAM5A4]Thousands of Israelis rally in support of soldier who executed wounded Palestinian https://t.co/EagsGN9gem by @RobertMackey The Intercept (@theintercept) April 20, 2016Protestors chanted and held signs reading Kill Them All.
In Tel Aviv at the rally for Elor Azraya, Israel's executioner-soldier and national hero.
1000s in attendance pic.twitter.com/IB1hjmqT9i Dan Cohen (@dancohen3000) April 19, 2016 Post-doctoral trolling ?
Or ?
Israelis adopt Nazi SS motto My honor is loyalty at Tel Aviv Death to Arabs rally pic.twitter.com/V8xb35Ktk8 David Sheen (@davidsheen) April 20, 2016Independent journalist @davidsheen beaten by Israeli mob because they thought he was a @Btselem human rights worker https://t.co/DpWduQsiZb Ali Abunimah (@AliAbunimah) April 19, 2016The United States continues to give support to this racist state with billions of dollars and as every major presidential candidate except Bernie Sanders has given their cult like pledge of loyalty to Israel, things do not appear to be changing.
It is time for Americans to rise up and say no to our support for Israel.Featured image via Twitter