In an effort to meet his weekly requirements of hypocrisy, Ted Cruz embraced the idea of a draconian federal law that would make it next to impossible for labor unions to function within America.
Cruz called for a national right to work law, which would prevent unions from automatically collecting dues from employees that they cover.
This would cause the labor unions to go bankrupt and make workers lose practically all of their collective bargaining power resulting in lower wages, worse working environments, and a reduction or loss of benefits.Hearing someone like Cruz, who completely embraces the idea of states rights when it suits them, calling for a federal law to override all state-based labor union protections is a joke.
Hypocrisy is not new to Cruz or Republicans, though.
Cruz called for the law to protect the fundamental rights of employees.
Common spin on legislation like this is that somehow the mandatory dues deducted from your paycheck to fund union representation are a violation of your rights as a worker.Apparently, the rights to collective bargaining and the fact you lose about 1500 dollars a year if you are non-union are completely lost to your average Republican legislator and voter.
This is why these laws are regularly called right to work for less.
The sudden obsession with labor law is a strange diversion for Cruz, who worries more about finding ways to legalize discrimination and repeal Obamacare.
The reason for it likely has less to do with allowing employers to steal money from their workers, and more with the fact he is trying to win the Wisconsin Republican primary.Cruz is echoing the only noteworthy thing Koch puppet Governor Scott Walker managed to do during his time as Governor of Wisconsin.
Walker s entire claim to fame was being the corporate goon boy for attacks on labor unions.
Despite his reasonable success in ruining labor unions in the state, Wisconsin still has some of the worst job prospects in America and shows no signs of serious improvement anytime soon.
How advocating for a nationwide roll out of a huge Republican policy failure will help Cruz is anyone s guess.
Republicans have voted for stupider things, though, so it could prove to be just the nudge Cruz needs to secure a win in Wisconsin.Featured image via (Photo by Spencer Platt /Getty Images)