The left continues to prove to all of us that they are a twisted bunch.
How is the protest filmed below going to persuade any voter to turn away from President Trump?A protester who may have an incurable case of Trump Derangement Syndrome shouted at a animatronic lookalike of the president in front of a room full of children at the Happiest Place on Earth.The ugly meltdown occurred in the Hall of Presidents at Disney World on Wednesday.I protested @realDonaldTrump at the #hallofpresidents cuz I'll never get this close in real life probs.
#lockhimup pic.twitter.com/jKOQShIdz8 Earnest Gay Thoughts (@JayMalsky) December 27, 2017 I protested @realDonaldTrump at the #hallofpresidents cuz I ll never get this close in real life probs, Jay Malsky tweeted on December 27, adding the hashtag #lockhimup.
ONE OF THE PRO-TRUMP PEOPLE WHO YELLED BACK AT THE PROTESTER TWEETED THIS OUT:My response to the person yelling at robot trump at the #hallofpresidents at #disney made @DRUDGE_REPORT.
Glad they also pointed out the guys point about Disney being a public institution being absolutely irrelevant.
pic.twitter.com/cWrfPheMIw Kenny Liszewski (@kenny_liszewski) December 29, 2017DISGUSTING DISPLAY:Malsky s Twitter profile image shows him holding a purple dildo and advertises his solo show in New York City, titled, Jay Malsky Slept With My Boyfriend.
Malsky recorded himself watching the introductions of the presidents of the last half of the 20th Century to the president.After George Washington introduced Trump, the current president recited the Oath of Office, only for Malsky to begin shouting Lock him up!
QUIET!
Quiet!
another attendee responded.
Shut up!
another one yelled.Trump s speech was halted as the crowd grew angrier.
Please remain seated, a staff member said over the sound system.
Thanks, asshole, someone could be heard telling Malsky as began chanting again.Via: American MirrorThe new President Trump depicted in The Hall of Presidents has been criticized for its likeness to Hillary Clinton.
It certainly doesn t look like Trump: