A new report from the Pew Research Center shows that the religiously unaffiliated now make up the largest religious voting bloc in the United States.The report shows that white Evangelicals are flocking to Trump, while the religiously unaffiliated tend to support Hillary Clinton.According to the report, the religiously unaffiliated: have been growing rapidly as a share of the U.S. population, now constitute one-fifth of all registered voters and more than a quarter of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters.
That represents a 50 percent increase in the proportion of non-religious voters compared with eight years ago, when they made up just 14 percent of the overall electorate.
Here is how the current political persuasions of the religious stack up:People are also less likely to desire a president to have strong religious convictions.
Additionally, people are also far more likely to view religious organizations as having a positive impact on society.
That s very important when one considers the political significance churches and other religious groups have in the United States.This is a major shift in the social political makeup of the United States.
Until now, Christians, who tend to be much more conservative, have made up the largest voting bloc in the United States.
This new and growing bloc might just be what the left needs in order to combat the atrocious bigoted policies that have been traditionally put in place by right-wing Christians.There s only one problem with this new voting bloc they re not voting.
This is probably due to two important demographic realities.
Younger people are much more likely to identify as non-religious, and young people tend to not vote as much as older people.
This means that the non-religious are heavily underrepresented in office.
Should this bloc happen to actually flex their political muscles at the voting booths, debates about what bathrooms trans people use might become a thing of the past.Featured image from Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images