This story just keeps unraveling Two days ago, conservative Thomas Wictor dropped a bombshell on Twitter, exposing what he suggested was a forged Roy Moore signature on the yearbook that allegedly belongs to Beverly Young Nelson, the most recent sexual misconduct accuser of GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore.CNN published a story about Roy Moore signing Nelson s yearbook.
Thomas Wictor dissected the signature and the validity of her story on Twitter:Beverly Young Nelson said Alabama GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore wrote a message in her yearbook in December 1977 that said, "To a sweeter more beautiful girl, I could not say, 'Merry Christmas.
'"She said he signed it, "Roy Moore, D.A."
https://t.co/aluJzQsv15 pic.twitter.com/esjGd1ssd9 CNN (@CNN) November 13, 2017Here are close up versions of the signatures.
Note, that when viewed close up, the signature is signed in both black and blue ink.Here is a closer version of the yearbook signature:Here is Wictor s explanation for the different colors of ink:(4) The LIGHT is reflecting off of the ink.The ink that LOOKS blue is actually black.
It's DIFFERENT ink than the ORIGINAL ink.Therefore it reflects light differently.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) November 16, 2017(11) So, to recap:The signature is a forgery, and everything after the name "Roy-Ray" was added later with different ink.
pic.twitter.com/1sPv6aABge Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) November 15, 2017Just like the "TH" doomed Dan Rather, "DA" will doom the anti Roy Moore forces.
They copied his signature on Nelsons divorce order not realizing "DA" was his assistants initials, not his title.
The sheer stupidity!
pic.twitter.com/oWJ5fzM6fr TruthHurts (@tru768) November 15, 2017Moore s attorney came out today with a statement regarding the signature in question in the high school yearbook.
Here s what he had to say:Roy Moore's Attorney: "[Nelson & Gloria Allred] said that Ms. Nelson after the allegations had never seen or had any contact with Judge Moore In 1999, Ms. Nelson filed a divorce action The judge assigned was Roy S.
Moore."
pic.twitter.com/Bv5ZV0CMvc Fox News (@FoxNews) November 15, 2017Meanwhile, the leftist, feminist lawyer, Gloria Allred, refused to deny that her client Beverly Nelson s Roy Moore signature in her high school yearbook is NOT a fabrication.
CNN s Wolf Blitzer grilled Allred on the matter Wednesday.Big League Politics Well, all I m saying is, we will permit an independent examiner of the writing We will allow all of this to be asked and answered at the hearing, Allred said.
But that s not a flat denial, Gloria, Blitzer said.
Well, all I m saying is, we re not denying, we re not admitting, we re not addressing, Allred said.
We will not be distracted.
Blitzer asked why Allred needed a Senate hearing and would not just permit an independent handwriting expert to take a look.
Well, uh, all I can say is we want it done in a professional setting to the extent possible, that s the only setting in which people can testify under oath, Allred said.Blitzer asked if Allred s client would take a lie-detector test, but she refused, pushing for a Senate hearing.Go to the 25:30 min.
mark in the video: