Ever since Donald Trump s rallies have become violent dumpster fires with a heavy neo-Nazi and white supremacist presence, his campaign has tried to paint the protesters as secret Bernie Sanders supporters engaging in a conspiracy to make the candidate look bad.
They argue that any person, say, seen giving the Nazi salute while wearing a Trump t-shirt is a Bernie operative secretly antagonizing people to get a reaction.
They have exactly one example of this and it was debunked within a matter of minutes.According to Donald Trump s son, the aptly named Donald Trump Jr., as well as Trump supporters like Ann Coulter and James Woods, a woman whose Nazi salute at a Trump rally went viral is a Bernie Sanders supporter named Portia Boulger.
They immediately sent out tweets naming her as the Nazi and accusing her of being a paid stooge.Image via WCMH-TVThe problem?
The woman in the picture only held a passing resemblance to Boulger; the photographer who took the picture identified the subject as another woman, Birgitt Peterson; and Boulger wasn t even near the Chicago Trump rally the photo was taken at.
It wasn t her.Despite this massive screw up, and the sheer awfulness of telling millions of people that an innocent woman is a Nazi, Trump Jr. not only didn t apologize, he never even corrected his original tweet.
For days, Trump fans sent the picture around the internet, working themselves into a frenzy over this Bernie Sanders operative who was undermining their candidate.
A lack of apology isn t surprising for followers of the Trump campaign.The blowhard Republican frontrunner has built his entire platform on the shaky premise that he can never be wrong, he s infallible, and that he s tough enough to never take back anything he ever says.
Likewise, his cronies like Ann Coulter and James Woods, also make a habit of smearing innocent people and never bothering to find out if the information they pass along is true.
However, there is one way to get a Trump to listen to you: Money.Boulger announced that she was demanding a public apology for the smear campaign against her or she would file a lawsuit against Trump Jr.Boulger says even though it s been proven the composite photo wasn t of her, she doesn t feel safe.
She believes she was targeted and intimidated because of her support for Bernie Sanders.Now she wants an apology.
No one should be able to threaten me or make me feel uncomfortable for exercising the freedoms that I have by living in the United States of America, she says.Boulger says her attorney is negotiating with Trump s to get that apology.
She says she wants it via Twitter.It apparently worked.
In the greatest irony in history, the Trump family known for their lawsuit threats got played by a woman threatening a lawsuit.
Poetic justice.Trump Jr. gave her the tweet that she wanted, announcing to his followers that he had screwed up and that the photo of the Nazi salute was, in fact, one of his dad s fans and not of Boulger.Hilariously, Trump Jr. s fans praised him for his integrity for having the guts to apologize.
They didn t seem to acknowledge the very real defamation lawsuit he would have faced if he didn t. How s that for integrity?Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images