On Wednesday, The Washington Post published a harsh editorial that ripped Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders for his progressive politics.The article, entitled Bernie Sanders Fiction-filled Campaign, said that the Vermont senator was guilty of making fantastical claims and peddling his own brand of fiction to a slice of the country that eagerly wants to buy it, insulting the millions of Americans that support the anti-establishment candidate.
The vicious piece ends with, It merely proves that many progressives like being told everything they want to hear.
The piece predictably gathered tons of support and backlash alike.
Alternet even noted that the Post was probably somewhat biased against Sanders because its owner, Jeff Bezos, is an arch-libertarian worth $53.2 billion and has a whole host of investments in private health care.
But regardless of others defense of Sanders, the Vermont senator himself had the most brutal message of all.
On Thursday morning at a Bloomberg Politics event, Sanders was asked about the piece and he didn t hold back.
He absolutely ripped the Post s Editorial Board: That s not a new argument.
We ve been hearing that months and months, and that s in a sense what this campaign is about.
People are telling us, whether it s the Washington Post editorial board or anybody else, our ideas are too ambitious can t happen.
Too bold really?
Well, here s something which is really bold.
In the last 30 years, there has been a massive transfer of wealth from the middle class and working families of this country.
The middle class has become poorer and trillions of dollars have been transferred to the top one-tenth of 1 percent Where was The Washington Post to express concern that the middle class was shrinking?
Where was The Washington Post talking about this radical transformation of America?
And he was just getting started.
When the discussion went to foreign policy, Sanders took another opportunity to slam the media source.
Sanders unloaded on the Post s previous record with the Iraq War, which had already received tons of criticism.
Sanders quipped, Check out where all the geniuses on the editorial page were with regard to the invasion of Iraq.
In 2014, it was discovered that the media source had published more than 140 stories aggressively promoting to war months before the invasion.
That was a powerful comment from Sanders, as he had nearly stood alone in Congress when he voted against the Iraq War.Featured image is a screenshot via Comedy Central