Donald Trump likes to brag about the fact that he attended the University of Pennsylvania s prestigious Wharton School.
However, the folks there are scared as hell as the prospect of their former student becoming president of the United States.
One of the professors at the Wharton School, Eric Schoenberg, has one project between here and November: Stop Trump.According to the Huffington Post, Schoenberg says of Trump: This man, Donald Trump, represents a true threat to our democracy and our system of government.
This was a statement he made to the University s student publication, the Daily Pennsylvanian.
Schoenberg continued: I think Donald Trump is a potential disaster, and I m going to do everything I can to make sure he isn t president.
The Democrats are the only game in town to that regard.
The professor is also talking with his wallet on this one, having given the maximum allowable amount $2700 to Hillary Clinton s bid for the presidency.
Further, he gave $75,000 to help bankroll the Democratic National Convention.
In addition, Schoenberg has bankrolled various unnamed efforts championed by Democrats to the tune of roughly $30,000.Schoenberg isn t the only one at Trump s old school who can t stand the thought of his being president.
In fact, the students at Wharton penned a blistering missive to Trump, berating his offensive remarks, saying that discriminatory statements are incompatible with the values that we are taught and we teach at Wharton.
That letter gathered more than 3700 signatures from both present students at the school and those who have already graduated.The people at Wharton are right.
Trump is unfit to be president.
From his obvious ignorance of the Constitution, to his love affair with Russian dictator Vladimir Putin, to his flirtation with the idea of abandoning America s allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and so much more, we must understand that Trump is not just a buffoon or a clown or even a bigot or an embarrassment.
He is dangerous, a literal fascist and a demagogue who has risen to a position of power through his uncanny ability to tap into and manipulate the basest, darkest instincts of America s ignorant masses.
Godspeed, Professor Schoenberg.
Educated, sane Americans everywhere are with you.
We must stop Trump.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images