Just like with every presidential inauguration year, Washington, D.C. will become complete chaos during the week of the ceremony.
Trump supporters, though, might find it a lot more difficult to find places to stay, though.
Users of Airbnb, the housing share site, are pulling their listings because they don t want Trumpsters staying in their homes.Most in the country expected that it would be Hillary Clinton who would be inaugurated on January 20th, so the town was pretty well booked with Democrats.
Unfortunately, the mostly blue city was slapped with a dose of Electoral College reality and those reservations are being cancelled in droves, but the people who were set to make bank by renting out their homes aren t necessarily putting the listings back up, at least not for the inauguration.
I have a visceral reaction to the thought of having a Trump supporter in my house, said one host, who was planning on renting one of three of her bedrooms to an inauguration guest.
No amount of money could make me change my mind.
It s about moral principles.
Another host, identifying herself as Meredith, told the Huffington Post that she was concerned about what Trump supporters would do to her condo, particularly to the priceless works of art she d collected on her international travels.
We don t trust Trump supporters to stay in our place, Meredith said though she did note that she didn t mind overcharging (or gouging ) Trump-loving guests as punishment for their support, if the opportunity presented itself.Yet another, Ellie, said she was feeling afraid of the white men who might want to rent a bedroom in her home.
She noted that she needed the money, however, and would just have to look past our differences and happily welcome them.
Source: Heat StreetTrump supporters, naturally, are flipping out, calling the Airbnb hosts hypocrites and noting that the left wouldn t put up with the same being done to gay people or people of color.
They seriously misunderstand the law, though.
Yes, it s illegal to discriminate based on race, gender, and in D.C., sexual orientation, but political affiliation is not a protected class and it wouldn t matter if it was.
Airbnb hosts aren t discriminating.
They re taking their homes off the market.
Even Democrats who are protesting Trump s inauguration wouldn t be able to rent them.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images