Another consequence of weak leadership NYP The father of the American who was recently sent home from North Korea praised the Trump administration on Thursday after his son was released and said the Obama administration s results speak for themselves.
Fred Warmbier spoke to the media about his son Otto s comatose state and imprisonment by the North Korean regime.After thanking Sen.
Rob Portman (R., Ohio) for his support and assistance, Warmbier recounted how his son was freed.
When Otto was first taken, we were advised by the past administration to take a low profile while they worked to obtain his release, Warmbier said.
We did so without result.
Earlier this year, Cindy and I decided the time for strategic patience was over, and we made a few media appearances and traveled to Washington to meet with Ambassador Joe Yun at the State Department.
He said it was his understanding that Ambassador Yun, at the direction of President Donald Trump, aggressively pursued resolution of the situation.
They have our thanks for bringing Otto home, he said.He described his son s return as bittersweet.
Relief that Otto is now home in arms of those who love him and anger that he was so brutally treated for so long, he said.Warmbier also said he received a phone call from President Trump late Wednesday that he described as kind.
The last thing liberals want to hear the father of Otto Warbmier is that he was grateful for President Trump s help in bringing his son home or that he would describe him as being kind.
WFB Warmbier had this to say about the North Korean regime at a news conference at Wyoming High School where Otto graduated in 2013 as class salutatorian: They are a pariah regime They re brutal and terroristic.
The University of Virginia student returned to Ohio late Tuesday and hospitalized after being detained for 18 months in the Hermit Kingdom after being convicted of stealing a propaganda poster from a hotel.His father said he is stable, but has suffered a severe neurological injury.
Warmbier took questions from the media, including from one reporter who asked more about the Obama administration s handling of Otto s imprisonment.
You thanked President Trump and then you also said that the past administration didn t do enough, so do you feel like then-President Obama should have been doing more to help?
the reporter asked.After restating the question for other reporters who could not hear it, Warmbier gave a quick answer.
The question was, do I think the past administration could have done more?
I think the results speak for themselves, Warmbier said.Watch: