Is there really anything more irresponsible than standing before a large group of people on a stage in South Africa and telling them that SEX doesn t transmit AIDS?
As long as Theron s a card carrying Hollywood liberal, she gets a pass and anything she says.
After all, her reckless remarks were only for the good of the poor blacks in Africa right?The HIV virus can be spread in plenty more ways than just sex, actress Charlize Theron asserted while delivering the opening remarks at the 21st International AIDS Conference in Durban, South Africa on Monday.
It is not just AIDS, she said.
It is the culture that condones rape and shames victims into silence.
It is the cycle of poverty and violence that traps girls into teen marriages and forces them to sell their bodies to provide for their families.
It is the racism that allows the white and the wealthy to exploit the black and the poor and then blame them for their own suffering.
It is the homophobia that shames and isolates LGBT youth and keeps them from life-saving healthcare and education.
HIV is not just transmitted by sex, Theron added.
It s transmitted by sexism, racism, poverty and homophobia.
And if we re going to end AIDS, we have to cure the disease within our own hearts and within our own minds first.
-BreitbartThis certainly isn t the first time the rabid anti-gun actress has made the news (well almost) for making a completely unfounded and idiotic comment.
In May, 2014, Theron compared the media s coverage of her to rape .
When asked by Sky News whether she ever Googled herself, Theron replied, I don t do that, so that s my saving grace.
When you start living in that world, and doing that, you start, I guess, feeling raped.
Critics went wild over her twisted analogy.
But in the end, she s a Hollywood liberal and much like their good friend in the White House, they re untouchable.
The sky is the limit when it comes to the ignorant and irresponsible statements they are able to make without ever being held accountable.