When running for President of the United States it s important to remember that you can t get anything you want to get done accomplished alone.
Having great ideas means nothing if you don t have a Congress to back you up.
That s why it s so incredibly important to make sure that we not only get a Democrat in the White House, but also turn the Senate and House of Representatives blue.With that in mind, there is really only one candidate running for president on the Democratic ticket that is taking this into account, and that person is Hillary Clinton.
While Sanders is clearly out-raising Clinton in small donations, which is amazing in and of itself, in the first quarter alone of 2016, Hillary has brought in $15 million for the Democratic National Committee and state Democratic parties to make sure Democrats win across the board.Knowing how important it is to have a Democratic Congress to get anything done is actor/activist/philanthropist George Clooney.
He fully recognizes that Bernie Sanders has it right that we need to get big money out of politics, but that he has it wrong when it comes to doing little to support down-ticket candidates.
Only recently has Sanders begun raising money for congressional candidates, and only for those who have endorsed him.On Meet the Press, Clooney told host Chuck Todd why it s so important to also raise money for down-ticket Democratic races: It s going to the congressmen and senators to try to take back Congress.
And the reason that s important, and the reason it s important to me, is because we need I m a Democrat.
So if you re a Republican, you re going to disagree, but we need to take the Senate back.
Clooney also made the very important point of noting that we need to take back Congress so that we can actually get a Supreme Court Justice who will help overturn Citizens United and get big money out of politics.
So while yes, he did agree with Sanders that we need to get big money out, it s not going to happen unless there is support of Democrats nationwide, including monetarily.
Keep in mind, Clooney remarks that what Sanders has to say is very important, including that he really likes the Vermont Senator, and if he were to get the nomination he will do whatever he can to get him elected, but as for now, he s supporting Hillary.Party strength is, quite literally, everything.
Without it, you have nothing.
You have a mighty platform to say things, but no means to get anything done.
Those who seek to divide the Democratic party don t realize how dreadfully horrific their unintended consequences will be.
That sort of myopic thinking, while in an ideal world would make no difference, it very clearly does in modern-day politics, and it s not about to change overnight.Kudos to Clooney for making this point be clearly known, and also for voting blue no matter who.Here s the video:Featured photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images