It s time for Sweden to take off the blindfolds and stop pretending their progressive policies are somehow benefiting their citizens.
How does a country lose 14,000 foreign invaders anyway?
And where did those 14,000 refugees go?As part of the just concluded cash for refugees deal between the EU Turkey, the FT adds that not only will migrants whose asylum applications are rejected be sent back to Turkey but that this crackdown on irregular migration would be complemented by a parallel programme offering a legal route to Europe, resettling up to 500,000 Syrian refugees directly from Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan.
The FT adds that, as expected, if such an EU-wide scheme were made mandatory it would be flatly opposed by many eastern European countries.
To avoid the proposals being blocked, Brussels and Berlin are exploring a voluntary scheme with 10 countries willing to take refugees.
It is unclear whether other Schengen members would be asked to contribute to the costs of resettlement.
But before crossing that particular bridge, which will sow even further anger, mistrust and antagonism spread among the member countries of the European Union , a bigger question is just how will Europe track down and sequester those refugees that pose the biggest threat in the eyes of authorities, those who are already slated for deportation.As the following case study from Sweden proves, having once entered Europe, Europe may have problems trying to track down the hundreds of thousands of refugees having already found their way to the continent.As Sweden s Afton Bladet reports, over half of all the illegal migrants slated for deportation in Sweden have mysteriously disappeared.The National Border Police Section reports that of the 21,748 individuals due to be sent home after their asylum applications were turned down, a whopping 14,140 have simply vanished off the police radar.
Around a third, or the remaining 7,608, still live and are accounted for in the Swedish Migration Board s premises or have indicated an address for their own homes.
It is not clear if anyone has actually tried following up on said home address to see how many have simply made one up.Based on a translation of the Swedish report by Breitbart, some are expected to have left the country secretly, but the majority are thought to still be in Sweden, having fallen through the cracks of the comprehensive welfare state.
The local cops is brutally honest: We simply do not know where they are , said Patrik Engstrom, a spokesman for the local police.This is not the first time refugees have vanished from official supervision: one month ago we reported that roughly 4,000 asylum-seekers who had initially been accomodated by the German state of Lower Saxony had mysteriously disappeared.
To our knowledge they have still not been found.
Via: Zero Hedge