Every four years, we re told that the upcoming presidential election is the most important in our lifetimes.
While it does seem that every election cycle the consequences become much more serious, this one is particularly notable because, regardless of politics, it s a clear choice between sane and insane.Donald Trump is insane.
Obviously, we re not saying that in a clinical way because fortunately, we ve never met him, but he s thin-skinned, narcissistic, a pathological liar and doesn t give a crap about anyone other than himself.
Politics aside, those qualities should keep him out of office.While there are a number of third party candidates running this time around, only one third party ticket is on the ballot in all 50 states and Washington, D.C., and that s the Libertarian ticket of Gary Johnson and his vice presidential candidate Bill Weld.Famed Watergate journalist Carl Bernstein believes the Johnson/Weld ticket might not hold up for long, and that Weld could be dropping out of the race to support Hillary Clinton.The Green Party ticket is on the ballot in 40 states and Washington, D.C.
The Libertarian ticket is currently polling at 9 percent and the Green Party ticket is polling at 3 percent.
Many are saying that the third party tickets are siphoning votes from Hillary Clinton, not Donald Trump and according to Bernstein, Weld might not be able to live with that fact.
He has another day to fight for libertarianism, according to Bernstein.
He also believes that Weld could help bring Millennials into the Democratic fold.
Bill Weld does not want to be Ralph Nader, says Bernstein.
Nader, as you recall, ran against Al Gore and George W. Bush in 2000 and many say that Gore would have won if Nader had not been in the race.Bernstein also feels that Weld is spinning his wheels on the Johnson ticket.
He called Johnson a flake, and said that Weld wants to make a difference and the difference he can make is supporting Clinton.Here s the video:Could Libertarian VP candidate renounce his candidacy?
Bill Weld does not want to be Ralph Nader.
@carlbernstein https://t.co/TzGOzMcM2z CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) September 17, 2016Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images.