Obama urged Indonesians on Saturday to resist divisive politics based on race and religion It was REALLY just another swipe at Trump.
He s done this fear mongering over and over before (see video below from 2016) and he s doing it again by taking a veiled swipe at President Trump during his visit to Indonesia: *FYI-He gave the same BS speech on 9/11, 1/13, 6/16, 11/16 ANOTHER FYI This has been the mantra of the Obamas for years!
Check out Monica Crowley s take below.
She calls out these political grifters who always PROJECT wrongdoing on others.
Aren t THEY the ones who are guilty of the very thing they re claiming someone else is doing?CHECK THIS TOTAL BS OUT: I love that for Barack, there is no such thing as us and them he doesn t care whether you re a Democrat, a Republican, or none of the above.
He knows that we all love our country.
And he s always ready to listen to good ideas.
He s always looking for the very best in everyone he meets.
Michelle Obama The Guardian reported:The former US president said some countries had adopted an aggressive kind of nationalism and increased resentment of minority groups , in a speech in Indonesia on Saturday that could be seen as a commentary on the US as well as Indonesia.Obama, who was on a personal visit to the country where he spent some of his childhood, said the Muslim community in Indonesia had historically protected Hindu and Buddhist temples.
Indonesia is made of thousands of islands, hundreds of languages, scores of regions and ethnic groups.
So my time here made me cherish and respect for people s differences, he told a packed audience in Jakarta.Obama stopped short of mentioning any specific cases of racial or religious intolerance.
It is very important here in Indonesia, the United States, Europe, everywhere, to fight against the politics of us and them , he said to cheers from thousands of mostly Indonesians who have worked or studied abroad.He arrived in Jakarta after visiting the cultural city of Yogyakarta and white-water rafting on the tourist island of Bali.
He also met Indonesian President Joko Widodo in Bogor, south of the capital.Indonesia, a country of 250 million people, has experienced rising intolerance against non-Muslims and the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.A leader of Indonesia s second-largest Muslim organization this week called for a boycott of Starbucks, saying that the international coffee chain s pro-gay stand risks ruining the religious and cultured core of the country.MONICA CROWLEY CALLED THE OBAMAS OUT WHEN MICHELLE GAVE A SPEECH REFERRING TO BARACK S US vs THEM Mantra:Last night, Michelle Obama took the stage and delivered a speech meant to rally the Democratic faithful and to humanize her husband.
After nearly four years of his presidency, it does seem odd that she still has to humanize him.
That s usually something that more unknown challengers must do.
But the perception of Obama as an aloof, distant, egotistical narcissist has been growing, so Michelle was dispatched to paint a warmer picture of him.
If Team Obama is worried about THAT at this late hour as well as worrying about their base they know they re in trouble.For what it was, Michelle s speech was solid, and she certainly knows how to deliver.
It was a home run, the same way Ann Romney s speech was a home run last week.
But one short paragraph has become the definitive theme of the speech, because it rings so outrageously false.
She said, I love that for Barack, there is no such thing as us and them he doesn t care whether you re a Democrat, a Republican, or none of the above.
He knows that we all love our country.
And he s always ready to listen to good ideas.
He s always looking for the very best in everyone he meets.
The ONLY thing Obama has done since taking office is divide on the basis of us vs. them.
He and his team have divided Americans by class (by incessantly slamming the 1%, millionaires and billionaires, commanding them to do their fair share, etc).He has divided by race (see Joe Biden s recent comment, They re gonna put y all back in chains ).He has divided by age (attempting to scare seniors by falsely and dishonestly suggesting that the Republicans Medicare reforms would toss grandma off the cliff, and by giving away the store to college kids on student loans).And he has divided by gender (ginning up a completely bogus GOP war on women.
)As far as Michelle s comment that Obama doesn t care whether you re a Democrat, a Republican, or none of the above, and he s always ready to listen to good ideas , Obama hasn t met with the GOP in over a year, scolded them on Day One of his presidency with I won, told a Democrat who had voted against the stimulus, Don t think we re not keeping score, brother, and once referred to punishing our enemies.
Not exactly the warm n fuzzy Barack Michelle was desperately trying to paint.And as far as listening to good ideas, he blew off his own deficit reduction commission, Simpson-Bowles, as well as Paul Ryan s budget reform ideas and disregarded moderate Democrats ideas to carry out health reform more slowly and with GOP buy-in (see: defeated Arkansas Senator Blanche Lincoln and her pleas to Obama, which fell on deaf ears).So: Michelle can try all she wants to resurrect Obama s 2004 image of a guy who said there s not a red America or a blue America, and she and other Democrats can try to invoke his 2008 image of the transcendent guy sitting above petty politicking and business-as-usual.
But after nearly four years of division, distraction, and destruction, not many people are buying that sales pitch anymore.
It s old, it s tired, and like his radical redistributionism, it s done.