Dinesh D Souza s Hillary s America will debut in theaters in July.
Clinton Cash is a documentary that investigates donations made to the Clinton Foundation by foreign entities, paid speeches made by Bill and Hillary Clinton, and the Clintons personal enrichment since leaving the White House in 2001.
It also debuts this summer.
And now, Weiner exploring the life of a world class narcissist who just happens to be married to Hillary s top aide and special friend who is also tied to Hillary s email scandal investigation, Huma Abedin.
With so many scandalous movies surrounding the life of Corrupt Hillary debuting this spring and summer, it s hard to know what to see first.
We only have one question.
Did filmmaker, Mr. Kriegman credit Andrew Breitbart for exposing (pun intended) the truth about Anthony Weiner?Mr.
Kriegman s careful chronicling of Mr. Weiner s campaign is poised to prompt a much broader reassessment of a tabloid-tarred politician.
Weiner, a feature-length documentary by Mr. Kriegman and Elyse Steinberg, will be released on May 20, amid one of the most contentious presidential elections in memory, and it may be the most intimate and provocative portrait of a political race since The War Room.
Mr. Weiner whose moth-to-the-flame instinct toward exposure led in part to his resignation from Congress in 2011 after admitting he had lied about online liaisons with women granted extraordinary access to Mr. Kriegman, in exchange for the occasional use of his footage during the campaign.
The filmmaker agreed to step out of the room whenever Mr. Weiner asked.And yet there is Mr. Kriegman in the back of a sport utility vehicle, filming as Mr. Weiner tries to persuade his wife, Huma Abedin, to appear at a primary-night party where Sydney Leathers, Mr. Weiner s erstwhile sexting partner, is lurking outside.
Mr. Kriegman is inside the couple s apartment at breakfast time as Ms. Abedin, a frozen smile on her face, confides to the camera that she is living a nightmare.
There are startling moments of Mr. Weiner analyzing his own transgressions (he calls them the things ) and facing teary-eyed staff members.
Hours after Mr. Weiner s campaign is stricken by revelations of new online infidelities, the film finds husband and wife alone in a conference room, staring at each other for what may be the longest and most painful onscreen marital silence this side of an Ingmar Bergman film.
The door closes, and I m filming, and I m riveted by what s happening, Mr. Kriegman recalled in an interview last month.
But I m definitely thinking to myself: I can t believe I m standing here right now.
He almost never got the chance.
Mr. Kriegman had known Mr. Weiner for years, serving as chief of staff in his district office.
After a decade in politics, he began pursuing a film career, earning credits on MTV and PBS.
He and Ms. Steinberg, who are both 36, and previously collaborated on a documentary about prison reform, came to view Mr. Weiner as an ideal subject.Via: NYT s