A 16-year-old is dead after a group of white thugs threatened to gun him down and chased him until he collapsed and died from an asthma attack.Dayshen McKenzie and his friend Harry met up with the group behind a restaurant and an argument over a girl escalated into threats of violence and a chase that had McKenzie running for his life.According to Harry, The guy said, You got a problem?
And my (friend) said, You got a problem?
and it went on.
They left, and they came back three cars deep.
The guy in the first car had a gun.
The white thugs literally tried to hunt McKenzie down like a wild animal but he forgot his inhaler that day so when he needed it he didn t have it.
But he wouldn t have had an asthma attack in the first place had he not been chased down by a bunch of gun-wielding racists.Former police officer Diane Fatigati came forward as a witness after trying to save McKenzie with the use of CPR.
But she was unable to revive the teen.
To me, it s murder, she said.
They were chasing him that s a crime.
You re hunting them because they re black You re calling them a n****r. To me, it s a hate crime.
McKenzie s mother, Tisha Richardson is sad and angry over the senseless killing of her son.
I want justice for him.
Somebody should be held accountable, she said.Needless to say, police are investigating McKenzie s death but yet another young black man is dead at the hands of racists in 21st century America.But we can likely expect even more of these killings if Donald Trump becomes president.
After all, he encourages violence and intimidation of black people and has even promised to pay the legal bills for supporters who are arrested when they actually do what Trump tells them to do.In addition, Trump has made racist rhetoric more of a norm that is no longer shocking people like it once did in political campaigns of the past.You can bet white supremacists are salivating at the thought of Trump becoming president because they think they ll have a license to intimidate and kill black people whenever they want without consequences.
Because right now, the only way they can do that is to get hired by the police.Featured Image: New York Daily News