This is why no one should vote for a Republican ever again.
Period.Donald Trump becoming president would be one of the scariest times in our history.
And that s because democracy itself would be shattered if conservatives like Wayne Allyn Root have their way.During an interview with radio host Rob Schilling on Monday, Root, who is often the opening speaker and Master of Ceremonies at Trump rallies, openly called for stripping welfare and Medicaid recipients of their right to vote and said women who get free contraception should be barred from voting as well so that Republicans can win every election in this country by a landslide.
So if the people who payed the taxes were the only ones allowed to vote, we d have landslide victories, Root said, but you re allowing people to vote.
This explains everything!
People with conflict of interest shouldn t be allowed to vote.
If you collect welfare, you have no right to vote.
The day you get off welfare, you get your voting rights back.
The reality is, why are you allowed to have this conflict of interest that you vote for the politician who wants to keep your welfare checks coming and your food stamps and your aid to dependent children and your free health care and your Medicaid, your Medicare and your Social Security and everything else?Social Security should not, Medicare should not, because you paid into the system.
But all the other stuff, all the other goodies, free Obama phones, free contraception, you know what, you can get them but you shouldn t be allowed to vote, it s a conflict of interest.
Take that away, we d win every single election in this country.
Here s the audio via Right Wing Watch:This is definitive proof that Donald Trump is too dangerous to be be president.
And it is proof that conservatives are hell bent on taking away voting rights so they can gain absolute power.But there s a big problem with Root s plan.
You see, Root s idea is based on the premise that minorities and liberals make up most of the people who take federal aid.In reality, Republicans would be stripping their own constituents of the right to vote if they listen to Root.According to Pew Research, the states where the most Americans are on welfare are red states, including, Wisconsin, Missouri, Tennessee, Texas, South Carolina, North Carolina, Arizona, New Mexico, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama, Maine, and Arkansas.
Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Florida, which are considered battleground states but are also run by Republicans, are also on this list.And why are these states on this list?
The answer is because Republican economic policies like the one Wayne Allyn Root supports, have swept more and more people into poverty, thus increasing the need for food assistance.In other words, Root s plan would have the opposite effect because it would keep many conservatives from voting in red states, which would devastate Republican majorities in those state legislatures.Furthermore, as Right Wing Watch points out, women don t actually get free birth control.
The insurance companies are mandated to cover contraception in their health plans.
In short, taxpayers are not paying for it, the women are paying for it every time they pay their premiums.
One would think a businessman like Root would understand that, but who ever said Root was a competent businessman.
After all, he s hanging out with Donald Trump.
But the idea that we should strip women of their right to vote just because they get contraception is outrageous.
And now we can add another reason why women should never vote for Republicans.In fact, the idea that we should strip any citizen in this nation of their right to vote is an affront to democracy and should by all rights lead to a landslide victory for Hillary Clinton in November.In other words, it s time to vote like it could be the last time we ever get a chance to do so, because if Republicans like Root have their way, it will be.Featured Image: Ralph Freso/Getty Images