Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is a diplomatic, nice guy unlike his American counterpart, Donald Trump.
While speaking on the issue of how to deal with Trump, Trudeau was able to show class and grace, while still throwing major shade at the bombastic, bumbling American president.
Trudeau s low-key handling of Trump could cost him with his progressive base at home, but given Trump s penchant for retaliation, going after Trump explicitly could be harmful to Canada s economy, given the fact that they export so many products to our country.While speaking on Trump, Trudeau said: Why poke a grizzly bear while it s having lunch?
Trump has just got into office and he is formulating his economic plans.
This is clearly a departure from the closeness Trudeau had with President Obama.
Their adorable bromance and open and affectionate friendship is surely something that will not be duplicated with Trump.
Those familiar with the situation on how Trudeau may handle Trump acknowledge that no one quite knows what to do with him at this point.
One source said: He is totally unpredictable.
Of course, this isn t the first time Trudeau has thrown passive aggressive public punches at Trump.
After Trump s Muslim ban threw the nation and world into chaos, Trudeau tweeted:To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith.
Diversity is our strength #WelcomeToCanada Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) January 28, 2017Of course, Trudeau s reluctance to go after Trump may not last long.
He is up for re-election in 2019, and will have to continue to tout his commitment to diversity and inclusion in the fact of Trump s crude nationalism and open bigotry.
However, Canadian Pollster Nik Nanos says Trudeau is doing the right thing regarding Trump for now: He has to avoid making any kind of criticism.
Trump has a very thin skin and he s quick to lash out.
That may be, but given Trudeau s public statements regarding diversity and progressive values, he is not likely to hold off for long before he takes the gloves off regarding Trump.
We ll be lucky if America has ANY friends left by the end of Trump s term.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images