George R.R.
Martin, who is best known as the writer of Game of Thrones, knows a little something about liars and bad leaders.
He s written more than his share.
He also knows that Trump would be one of them.
In fact, in an OpEd in LiveJournal, entitled A Simple Observation, Martin pretty much gave Trump the blogging equivalent of one of Game of Thrones bloodiest shows.
Okay, perhaps that s an exaggeration, but he wasn t kind to Trump.Martin lives in New Mexico.
He s concerned because the state, which has been pretty safely blue in recent history, is now in play (although FiveThirtyEight puts New Mexico s five electoral votes pretty firmly in Hillary s camp).
Because of that, Martin has had a chance to see a lot of political ads from the presidential candidates.
Despite the media s insistence that both candidates are somehow equally flawed, Martin sees big differences, even just in their ads.
He sees one big difference and this is coming from someone who makes at least part of his living in producing videos.First, he talked about the Trump commercials, which are very negative and frankly, pretty standard fare, with the exception of Trump s vulgar and ugly language:The Trump commercials are all fairly standard political attack ads.
You ve seen a thousand like them.
Find some bad pictures of the opponent, in this case Hillary, pictures that make them look ugly or angry or crazed (easily done, there are thousands of unflattering pictures of any public figure floating around these days).
If they are not bad enough, put them up in black & white, which always seems to make them worse.
Juxtapose them with negative imagery, maybe some out of context headlines.
Use a faceless narrator s voice over the pictures telling us that the candidate is corrupt or a liar or too extreme.
The latest Trump ad manages to add Anthony Weiner, who is called Pervert Anthony Weiner.
The blatant name-calling flinging around words like pervert and crooked is not something we have often seen before in American politics, unless you go back to the 18th and 19th centuries; that s Trump s own original ugly contribution to lowering the tenor of political discourse.
The rest, however, is Attack Ad 101.Martin goes on to call Trump s ads mostly assertion, innuendo, and name-calling, but with no substance.Here s on sample:Now on to Clinton, and this says something pretty amazing about her in general.
Her ads are honest.Clinton s ads are something else.
Very different, and to my mind much more truthful.
The star of all the Clinton ads in Donald J. Trump.
There are no deliberately unflattering photographs, however.
Nothing in black and white.
Just video clips, full color, professional footage from news cameras at his rallies, interviews, television appearances.
There s no name-calling either.
Clinton doesn t need to label Trump as crooked or a liar or link him with perverts.
Clinton s ads just show Trump being Trump.So what we have here is not Smith claiming that Jones said terrible things.
What we have is actual footage of Jones saying and doing those things.
No one has to accuse Trump of anything, he has laid it all out there in public for the world to see.Here s an example:G-d knows there s enough footage out there.
Martin mentioned Trump mocking a disabled reporter.
He mentioned the pussy grabbing video.
Really, it goes on and on because nearly every time Trump opens his mouth, something controversial and offensive comes out.Martin goes on to talk specifically about the candidates, and his opinion of Trump is anything but favorable.He didn t say much about Hillary, but he did say this:You don t need to like Hillary.
You don t need to listen to what Hillary says about Trump, or what I say about Trump.
You just need to listen to Trump.
If you can do that, and still consider voting for him well Oooh oooh, I can finish that sentence.
If you can listen to Trump and still consider voting for him well you don t really give a crap about the future of the country.
Well, perhaps Martin had something more eloquent in mind.Featured image via Kevin Winter/Getty Images.