A man known primarily for posting videos of himself making the sounds of different types of guns yeah, apparently there is a market for that was arrested after he threatened to shoot his underage girlfriend and then kill cops in a rampage.
Just another day in gun crazy America!Bryan Silva, 25, has over two million followers on Facebook and Vine, where he thrills fellow gun lovers with short videos of his obsession with firearms.However he went from good guy with a gun to violent nutcase in a hurry.
On January 4, Charlottesville, Virginia, police received a call from a distraught 17-year-old girl who said she had just escaped Silva s home after he held a gun to her head and threatened to kill her.
She also told police that Silva was planning on killing cops.Police responded to a domestic dispute call around 6 a.m. Sunday at the home where the barricade situation occurred.According to police, the call was made by a neighbor.
It was a domestic disturbance, said Longo.
A female caller said that she was threatened with a firearm, we responded and began an investigation.
Apparently, a 17-year-old girl had been at the residence when a dispute occurred.
She then left go to the neighbor s house.The girl told police she had been held against her will by her boyfriend and that he had also threatened her with a handgun.
She also told officers that he had threatened to shoot the police.Virginia is one of several Republican states that recently pushed to make it easier for people to have and carry guns.
It seems to be working out well.The police surrounded Silva s house, and Silva took advantage of his infamy by what else?
posting to his social media accounts about his siege with police and chatting with friends.But while Silva would have loved to posture himself as a gun-toting badass, things didn t work out that way.
He eventually surrendered and was promptly arrested with his pants falling to his ankles.
In the ultimate bit of karma, the Vine star was immortalized in this hilarious Vine.I can't believe this vine of Bryan Silva being arrested with his pants down #Gratata https://t.co/iSwWXfWvg0 Ryan Broderick (@broderick) January 4, 2016It turns out that Silva was not legally allowed to have all those guns he was bragging about daily on social media.
Silva was already a convicted felon.
On top of the new charges of abduction, he was slapped with another felony, illegal possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.His legions of gun nut fans will probably be disappointed, but the streets are probably much safer with Bryan Silva off of Vine and the streets.Feature image via Newsplex