Hillary Clinton brought the house down at a gala event held by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute in Washington, D.C.
Speaking after President Obama, Clinton referenced the verbal abuse and indignities targeted towards Latino Americans by the anti-immigrant Trump campaign.Then as an aside, Clinton said, I personally think a taco truck on every corner sounds absolutely delicious, and the audience went wild.Clinton: "I personally think a taco truck on every corner sounds absolutely delicious" https://t.co/UYpqI3w42L https://t.co/zTBXjkWoAg CNN (@CNN) September 16, 2016The comment was in reference to a statement by a Trump campaign surrogate representing Latinos for Trump, in an appearance on MSNBC s All In.
Marco Gutierrez stunned guest host Joy Reid, with its insensitivity.
My culture is a very dominant culture, the Mexican-born Marco Gutierrez said on MSNBC s All In With Chris Hayes.
It is imposing and it s causing problems.
If you don t do something about it, you re going to have taco trucks on every corner.
Gutierrez was widely ridiculed, and many on social media like Twitter pointed out that in fact they would love to have a taco truck nearby tacos are one of the most popular food items in the United States, as the ubiquitous Taco Bell chain would indicate.Democrats took the absurd taco truck comment and began using it to make fun of the Trump campaign.
In some locations, taco trucks have now been used as part of voter registration drives in order to get new voters to the polls in November.Trump s anti-immigrant campaign, specifically targeted at Latino immigrants, is expected to prompt an increase in voter registration and participation within the Latino community.
The fastest growing ethnic demographic in the United States, Latinos were once seen by the Republican Party in the era of George W. Bush as a route to electoral dominance.
Since then, the GOP has instead embraced a hard-right nativist stance, opposing immigration reform even when it has strong popular support.By contrast, Democrats have now completely taken up the mantle of being pro-immigrant.Featured image via screen capture