Knowing that hardworking Americans need to be paid fairly if they are putting in extra hours on the job hours away from their home and family, hours above and beyond what should ever be expected President Obama is now strengthening overtime pay rules.In an email from President Obama, he stated: We re strengthening our overtime pay rules to make sure millions of Americans hard work is rewarded.
If you work more than 40 hours a week, you should get paid for it or get extra time off to spend with your family and loved ones.
It s one of most important steps we re taking to help grow middle-class wages and put $12 billion more dollars in the pockets of hardworking Americans over the next 10 years.
Adding: This is a step in the right direction to strengthen and secure the middle class by raising Americans wages.
When workers have more income, they spend it often at businesses in their local community and that helps grow the economy for everyone.
According the Department of Labor, the new rules will do the following:Basically, making sure people get paid for the hard work they re putting in.Of course, Republicans are already incredibly upset that workers will be paid fairly for being overused.
Republicans seem to prefer people get overused AND underpaid.Speaker Paul Ryan (R-OH) has now admitted that he s furious with President Obama s new rules, claiming: His regulation hurts the very people it alleges to help.
Who is hurt most?
Students, nonprofit employees, and people starting a new career.
By mandating overtime pay at a much higher salary threshold, many small businesses and nonprofits will be unable to afford skilled workers and be forced to eliminate salaried positions, complete with benefits, altogether.
Yeah, more money in people s pockets is always harmful to their well-being, and making it so employers hire more employees if they want don t want to pay overtime is definitely harmful to economy.
You know, because adding jobs and people being satisfied with their jobs, which in turn lowers turnover and increases quality, is a bad thing.OR NOT.Let s be blunt, Republicans seem want to make sure employers keep as much money as possible by making sure they re allowed to pay employees as little as possible.
They seem to see giving money to top to let in trickle down is an investment in the economy, but investing more money in the people (or rather, consumers) who actually drive the economy, is a bad thing.Republicans have it exactly backwards, and the sooner they realize this the better.
What s most ironic, Paul Ryan is paid an obscene amount to work only mere weeks per year.Featured Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images