Former FBI Director James Comey is now one of the most dangerous men in Washington to Donald Trump.
There is nothing that could harm Trump like Comey testifying under oath in an open session of Congress yet that is exactly what Comey plans to do.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller has reportedly cleared Comey to testify, and boy will that testimony be a doozy.Of course, we all remember the reports that Comey kept meticulous notes on his conversations with Trump, because the orange wannabe president unsettled him with his inappropriate requests.
We also remember how one of those memos was leaked, and it alleged that Trump tried to obstruct justice.
Now, new reports suggest that Comey plans to tell the world about every contentious conversation he ever had with Trump including the parts where what Trump requested of Comey could indeed amount to obstruction of justice regarding the Russia probe which is, of course, a felony.Because of the addition of Special Counsel Mueller to the investigation, there will likely be no testimony regarding what is going on inside the investigation himself.
However, that matters not in this instance, as it appears that when Comey sits down before the Senate Intelligence Committee, he plans to sing like a canary; in fact, reports say he can t wait to do it.
From CNN:But he appears eager to discuss his tense interactions with Trump before his firing, which have now spurred allegations that the president may have tried to obstruct the investigation.
If it happens, Comey s public testimony promises to be a dramatic chapter in the months-long controversy, and it will likely bring even more intense scrutiny to an investigation that Trump has repeatedly denounced as a witch hunt.
Indeed, this should be very interesting.
We won t have long to wait, either.
While there is no date set in stone just yet, Comey s remarks may be up to be scheduled within the next week or two.
All he has to do is to make sure that he knows the bounds he must stay within before moving forward.Pop the popcorn for this one, folks.
It will definitely be interesting.Featured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images