Donald Trump and his administration seem to be all about austerity, as long as it s the nation suffering and not his family or employees.
Trump s education secretary, Betsy DeVos isn t suffering.
In fact, she s the only cabinet member that requires security from not jut the Secret Service, but from US marshals, and it s costing the schools she oversees a lot of money.No one is telling us why DeVos needs the extra security, but the Marshalls are sending a bill to the Education Department in the amount of $8 million to cover about eight months.
While that s a drop in the bucket for a department whose budget is about $70 billion, that money is coming straight from the nation s children s educations.The new outlay is a tiny fraction of the department s budget, but comes as the Trump administration has proposed slashing the spending plan by $9 billion, or 13.5 percent.DeVos is the only Cabinet secretary under the protection of the marshals, law enforcement officers who are generally responsible for protecting federal judges, transporting prisoners, apprehending fugitives and protecting witnesses.
They also guard the deputy attorney general and Supreme Court justices when they travel.Source: Washington PostDeVos s security team changed from Secret Service to the Marshalls after some protesters blocked her entry into a school shortly after her confirmation.
The protest was completely non-violent.
Other than that, we have no clue why the apparent overreaction.Note that DeVos is rich, very rich, even richer than her boss.
She and her family are worth about $5.1 billion.
If we can find a single rationale for putting the super rich in the higher eschelons of government, it should be that they could fray some of they cost, right?It seems, though, as if the super rich in government are now just taking their money making skills and using them to bilk the American taxpayers.
Trump is making the taxpayers pay for a vacation a week and, now, DeVos s security is coming literally from the mouths and brains of children.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images.