Ever since Donald Trump announced he was running for president, most Americans pretty much thought it was a joke and brushed it off as Donald being Donald.
However, as his poll numbers began to rise, so did people s curiosity with whether he may actually be in it to win it.
And now that Trump has won New Hampshire and is still polling high nationwide the probability of a Trump presidency is actually starting to sink in among several American citizens and it is terrifying the living daylights out of them.However, don t fret!
There seems to be a way out if Trump were to actually win the White House.Move to Canada!
!A new website has been set up to advise people to move to the lovely Cape Breton Island.The site is called Cape Breton If Donald Trump Wins and it encourages Americans to move to the island if that awful circumstance were to become a reality.
It says: Hi Americans!
Donald Trump may become the President of your country!
If that happens, and you decide to get the hell out of there, might I suggest moving to Cape Breton Island!
And you can find lots of cool things there!
And lots and lots of yummy SEAFOOD!Where is Cape Breton?
Not far from New England!
You could be there in no time!While this site is technically a joke website set up by radio host Rob Calabrese, people are still reaching out to him in droves.
It seems people are horrified at that possibility of a Trump presidency.
Calabrese had no idea it would actually be this popular.
He told nationalpost.com: I m in disbelief, Calabrese said in an interview Wednesday from Sydney, the largest community in Cape Breton.
I wish everyone from Cape Breton could read them because they really make you proud of living here.
You can find the FAQ page telling you it s not a joke:And it actually will lead you to the Canadian government citizen website:So, while it is a joke, you may want to still check out the possibilities anyway.
The site also directs you to the real Cape Breton tour page.As they say, it s always good to have a back up plan.
Featured image: Flickr/Wikimedia