Donald Trump s longtime personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, has hired legal counsel amidst an intensifying investigation into Russia s possible interference in the 2016 election.
MSNBC s Katy Tur broke the story when she tweeted out that Stephen M. Ryan, a lawyer with McDermott, Will & Emery, will be advising Cohen during the investigation, which is being headed by former FBI director Robert Mueller.
Mueller himself just hired 13 more lawyers for the probe.Exclusive: Trump personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, has hired his own counsel: Stephen Ryan, of McDermott, Will & Emery.- source w knowledge Katy Tur (@KatyTurNBC) June 16, 2017Tur revealed that Cohen will speak in front of the House Intelligence Committee on September 5th.
Tur also recently reported that former Trump campaign communications advisor, Michael Caputo, was contacted by the FBI and subsequently asked to speak before the House Intelligence Committee on a voluntary basis.
It should be noted that Cohen worked for a Russian media company supportive of Vladimir Putin in the 1990s.Inside the White House, it was revealed on Thursday that Vice President Mike Pence has also lawyered up with special legal counsel for the investigation.
During a press conference in Miami, the Washington Post questioned Pence on his decision to hire a lawyer.
He responded by saying, It s very routine.
Very routine.
Pence s comment is a prime example of the flippant nature with which the Trump administration responds to questions by citing alternative facts.
It is normal for people to hire special counsel to help guide them through the intricacies of a complex legal process.
However, it isn t normal for almost every top member of a branch of the federal government to be hiring legal counsel in order to mount a legal defense showing they didn t steal their way into their executive positions.Regardless of what the FBI s investigation into Trump and his corporate goon squad that now inhabits the White House yields, the Trump administration has already hung itself in the court of public opinion, according to Trump s approval ratings.
Between this investigation and two (and counting) separate lawsuits, Trump will likely sooner or later be found guilty of something by a judicial court as well.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images