In 2017, Kelli O Brien, the aunt of Joshua Boyle spoke publicly about the kidnapping of her nephew and his wife Caitlan Boyle who expresses her disappointment over the lack of response from Prime Minister Trudeau.
Interestingly enough, Trudeau was visiting President Trump when Trump announced that he would soon be announcing some very good news would be forthcoming regarding the captured family s status.TODAY, Boyle and Coleman s families got some very good news!
More winning An American woman, her Canadian husband, and their three children have been freed from captivity by Pakistani security forces, nearly five years after being taken hostage by the Taliban in Afghanistan.The initial word came from a Pakistani Army statement and was confirmed by US officials.The couple, American Caitlan Coleman, 31, and her American husband, Joshua Boyle, 33, were kidnapped by the Taliban in 2012 while they were traveling as tourists in Afghanistan and were held in captivity since.Coleman was pregnant when she was kidnapped.
The couple had two more children born in captivity.Here is a video showing Joshua Boyle and his wife Caitlin Coleman speaking to the camera while in captivity in January 2017: In a statement, the Pakistani Army said US intelligence agencies had been tracking the hostages and shared intelligence with Pakistan when the family was moved to the country.
US officials confirmed there was intelligence about their location in recent days that was shared with the Pakistanis.
The operation by Pakistani forces, based on actionable intelligence from US authorities was successful; all hostages were recovered safe and sound and are being repatriated to the country of their origin, the statement said.
The success underscores the importance of timely intelligence sharing and Pakistan s continued commitment towards fighting this menace through cooperation between two forces against a common enemy.
It is possible that the successful recovery of the family was what was being referenced Wednesday when President Donald Trump told a crowd in Pennsylvania that something happened today where a country that totally disrespected us called with some very, very important news.
Trump did not disclose what country or any details involved but said one of my generals came in and they said, you know, I have to tell you, a year ago they would have never done that.
This is a country that did not respect us, this is a country that respects us now.
The world is starting to respect us again, believe me, Trump said appearing to reference Pakistan and that country s role in bringing about the recovery of the four hostages.
CNN