Scott Baio made an appearance on Fox Business where the actor and Donald Trump supporter insinuated that President Obama is a Muslim and a terrorist sympathizer.
Baio said during the interview: I can t tell whether he is dumb, a Muslim, or a Muslim sympathizer I don t think he is dumb.
Chachi s Muslim sympathizer comment is particularly troubling.
It seems that what he meant to say is that President Obama is a terrorist sympathizer.
I m not entirely sure what a Muslim sympathizer is, though I have to admit I feel particularly sympathetic towards the 1.6 billion Muslims out there who are not violent terrorists but are still demonized by xenophobic right-wingers such as Baio.
I don t know what the endgame is for liberals to continue these policies.
.
.
Is it to totally eliminate the United States as it was created and founded and as it is now?
It s hard to tell exactly what policies Baio is talking about.
He mentions that Hillary Clinton wants to increase something by 500% so we can assume he is talking about immigration.
Though that statistic is completely absurd.
In fact, more immigrants have been deported under Obama than any other president in the history of the United States by far.
These mass deportations are one of the major criticisms the left has had of the Obama administration.
It is one part of Obama s legacy that very few people on the left would hope to see in his successor.
However, this is a segment on Fox Business, so facts like that are not mentioned.Baio goes on to say that Democrats only get angry over guns and Republicans, yet do not get angry over terrorism.
That is of course nonsense.
The left is furious that the NRA has taken our nation hostage, making it possible for terrorists to purchase assault weapons in a matter of minutes, then use those weapons to massacre huge numbers of people.
The left also is pretty furious that Muslims are demonized by the right and the media for acts of terror and hatred despite the fact that terrorism is routinely perpetrated by members of all religions.You can watch the segment below.Featured image from screenshot via YouTube