By now, we re all familiar with Trumpkins idiotic attempts to show that liberals are hypocrites by claiming that we scream for tolerance, yet we re intolerant of their own hateful, bigoted views.
After all, doesn t tolerance mean accepting every viewpoint there is?
These people are desperate to prove that we are just as hypocritical as they are, but their tolerance analogy just flat-out doesn t work.
John Pavlovitz, a true Christian pastor from North Carolina (of all places), and someone who regularly calls the right-wing out, explains why.Early on in his post, Pavlovitz throws this out at conservatives who want liberals to tolerate their hate: The commitment to diversity and equality means demanding that everyone gets a seat at the table; that each person s inherent worth is recognized there, that no one is devalued or excluded based on a fixed and fundamental part of their identity: skin color, gender, nation of origin, sexual orientation, religion, etc.This means that we declare every human being equally valuable.
It does not mean we treat all opinions and all behavior equally.
And then he says this, which should put all the immature conservative Trump lovers who are looking for someone to validate their hate into a massive tizzy: If your opinion directly endangers people based on those essential parts of who they are we ll pushback [sic].If you re [sic] worldview permits you to treat someone as less deserving of civil rights or it discards their basic humanity your worldview is a threat to true diversity.If your evaluation of another makes you more tolerant of their mistreatment or less outraged by hate crimes against them, that s a fundamental problem.Discrimination and violence don t get a seat at the table.
They don t get proximity to do damage The contention for the past year has been that all political perspectives are valid, but I won t consent to that and it s a matter of personal safety.
No individual groups of white people are explicitly, measurably endangered by a Progressive platform, they receive the same consideration.
But I can illustrate the specific ways people of color, immigrants, Muslims, women, and the LGBTQ community are less safe and less represented by the coming Administration, which is already by its conduct, a movement of exclusion.
And that s the difference that our narrow-minded, racist, misogynistic right wing does not understand when they cry and whine about tolerance.
They don t give a rat s ass about diversity they just want their viewpoints normalized and accepted, no matter how harmful they may be.
When the tolerance they want doesn t come, they cry like spoiled toddlers.They re full of hate and they are asshats about it, and what they want should never be allowed to stand: If you believe people of color are simply inferior to white people, you re going to have to work hard to stay at the table.If you claim LGBTQ people to be abominations, you ll have to do better.
If you believe Muslims are likely terrorists, you probably won t feel welcome at the table for long.And so no, it isn t at all hypocritical to champion diversity and to confront injustice simultaneously.
They are fully collaborative and integrated movements.All people are welcomed at the table but bigotry isn t, so save the allegation that its acceptance is a requirement.Equality demands deceny [sic] toward humanity s diverse gathering and it s what I demand.
It s what we all should demand.
What they re demanding of us is a pass for their hate and their discrimination.
They aren t demanding anything like tolerance they wouldn t know what tolerance was if it bit them in the ass.Read Pavlovitz full opinion here.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images