Until today s episode of Tucker Carlson Tonight, this was widely considered the most pathetic thing to ever happen on Fox News:After today, this could very well be the next contender:Fabio: Releasing inmates early will lead to more crime.
#Tucker pic.twitter.com/2PZeFb9Z3W Fox News (@FoxNews) April 29, 2017That would be male model Fabio spewing a word salad about liberals destroying California before getting sidetracked into a protracted rant about the legal system.
Fabio has come to the conclusion that America s world record prison population is actually too small.
Why is he an expert?
His house was broken into once.
Tucker Carlson treats Fabio s fact-free musings on criminality as sage advice.
Fox News social media team thought it was such a clever line that they went ahead and promoted it on Twitter.Things are not going well for Fox News.Tucker Carlson replaces Bill O Reilly after the Fox icon was fired for sexual misconduct that spanned decades.
Tucker s show has so far managed to retain much of O Reilly s audience, but it s taken less than a week for things to start coming apart at the seams.
By inviting disreputable guests like Fabio and Ann Coulter, Tucker has shown he ll aim to be more of a Sean Hannity than a serious newsman.
Any chance that Fox News might try to clean itself up has already gone out the window.Sean Hannity, meanwhile, has become completely unglued since losing his boss Roger Ailes and his co-worker Bill O Reilly to sexual harassment violations.
Already unstable, Hannity has lost the thread entirely.
He s now the paranoid guy wearing a tinfoil hat on the bus.G be i pray this is NOT true because if it is, that's the total end of the FNC as we know it.
Done.
Best Sean https://t.co/W3BJ2wjzRD Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 27, 2017Somebody HIGH UP AND INSIDE FNC is trying to get an innocent person fired.
And Gabe I KNOW WHO it is.
Best Sean https://t.co/W3BJ2wjzRD Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 27, 2017O Reilly s other possible replacement, longtime collaborator Jesse Watters, managed to earn himself an O Reilly-esque impromptu vacation when he made a sex joke about Ivanka Trump complete with a gross pantomime.I just noticed Jesse Watters jerked his hand up and down slightly as he joked that he liked how Ivanka holds a microphone.
pic.twitter.com/I332JcgoMx David Mack (@davidmackau) April 26, 2017Watters, already a known racist, made his Ivanka sex jokes just days after his former boss was ousted for sexual harassment.
Stupid never learns.And then there is the pending lawsuit in which several black former Fox employees allege Fox executives made them armwrestle for entertainment along with other humiliating activities.According to the plaintiffs attorneys, Slater demanded that black employees hold arm wrestling matches with white female employees in her office, just down the hall from Ailes s office on the 2nd floor of Fox headquarters.
Forcing a black woman employee to fight for the amusement and pleasure of her white superiors is horrifying.
This highly offensive and humiliating act is reminiscent of Jim Crow era battle royals, the letter says, referring to the practice of paying black men to fight blindfolded at carnivals for white spectators entertainment.What a healthy environment Fox News has created for itself.
No wonder they are struggling to find a celebrity more reputable than Fabio to come on their shows and shill for Trump.Featured image via Twitter