Kellyanne Conway just got hammered with facts by CNN after she lied about why she wasn t on the network s Sunday shows.First, CNN rejected Kellyanne Conway for a day.
Now the network is considering a permanent ban.The war between Donald Trump and CNN has escalated ever since inauguration day.
Trump has repeatedly called CNN fake news and his adviser Kellyanne Conway has only parroted this attack every time she appears on any media outlet to whine about the way networks are reporting on the administration.It got to the point where Trump even froze CNN out by declaring that he would not send any more surrogates to appear on CNN shows.
So when Trump offered to put Conway on CNN on Sunday, the network declined and got Mike Pence instead.Conway has repeatedly spread falsehoods and lies in defense of Trump and has attacked the media coverage every time she makes an appearance on television.
She even admitted that Trump and his team lies by referring to those lies as alternative facts, a phrase she has been taking a lot of heat for since she uttered it.And her recent false story about a terrorist attack against Bowling Green, Kentucky that never happened has also earned her criticism from journalists.
And that s why CNN booted her from their shows on Sunday.According to the New York Times,Some, like the New York University journalism professor Jay Rosen, were calling upon the television networks to stop booking her.
And CNN declined to have her as a guest on Sunday in part because the Trump administration offered her in lieu of Vice President Mike Pence, but also because of what the network told me were serious questions about her credibility.
So now CNN could be the first network to ban Kellyanne Conway from the airwaves.
And that s a good thing because if she is incapable of doing anything but lying and spreading false information, she definitely should not be given a platform to mislead people.
On any network for that matter.And their decision to ban her might pretty quickly since Conway just outright lied about why she wasn t on CNN on Sunday.Conway claimed that she wasn t rejected by CNN and that she wasn t on the shows because she had family commitments.
She then proceeded to claim that she is scheduled to appear on CNN on Monday and Tuesday.CNN quickly responded.. @KellyannePolls was offered to SOTU on Sunday by the White House.
We passed.
Those are the facts.
CNN Communications (@CNNPR) February 6, 2017Other media outlets should follow CNN s lead.
Journalistic integrity and ethics demand that Conway be removed before she does more damage.
Her misinformation and propaganda campaign may be tolerated by Fox, but it should not be tolerated by real news outlets.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images