You may or may not know this, but the Democratic National Committee (DNC) has a system in place that s capable of overriding the will of the people when the popular vote doesn t quite match up with what the establishment has in mind.
Due to DNC rules put into place, party elites have chosen to award Hillary Clinton an equal amount of delegates in New Hampshire even though Bernie Sanders won by an overwhelmingly large margin.
Pretty messed up, huh?
Yes, it is.
But there s more you need to know before panicking entirely (although you should panic a little).New Hampshire has a total of 24 pledged delegates that go to the winner of the primaries.
Since Bernie won 60.4% of the vote, he was awarded 15 of those, and Clinton only 9.
But, party officials in the state are given 8 superdelegates and are free to choose whichever candidate they like.
Six of those insider party officials are throwing their support behind Clinton while two remain undecided.
If you do the math, that means that the DNC is technically overriding the will of the voters and making the state an even call between the both of them.Pic via AP.Don t blame Hillary Clinton, though.
While there is substantial evidence of DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz being personally tied to Clinton (she was the co-chair of Clinton s 2008 campaign after all), these rules were put in place back in 1984.
The whole point of the superdelegate system was to make sure unelectable candidates wouldn t get elected.
That s a good thing.
Remember George McGovern?
He was beaten so bad by Nixon, the Democratic Party felt like it needed to do something, and this is what they eventually came up with.
Bernie Sanders is electable, though, and you d think the establishment is just now starting to get that.
The momentum he s currently receiving (and fundraising) is unbelievable far more than anyone could have ever imagined just six months ago.The truth is (and no fault to Sanders), but Clinton began the race with an enormous amount of support still left intact from her 2008 run against Barack Obama.
Due to her expansive campaign reach, she has been able to gain favor early on with most party insiders from the get go.
And, yes, they still support her.
Bernie s momentum is definitely happening, but so far that hasn t changed how the rules are set up.
And right now, because of the rules, Clinton has that advantage.Pic via New York Times.There is good news, though.
Even though technically Clinton received the same number of delegates as Sanders, taking away the kind of win needed to secure enough delegates from the state, he still won the popular vote.
And that s important no matter what anyone claims to tell you.
Here s why: the popular vote will decide the election overall.
Clinton started with an overwhelming amount of support, true, but 4,051 of the ordinary, popular vote delegates are allocated based on the voters, not the party.
And it only takes 2,282 to secure the nomination.
If it ever came down to it, and Bernie somehow received more of the popular vote than Clinton, the superdelegates should, in theory, back Bernie.
If they didn t, it would cause chaos.
Don t ever plan on that happening, though the DNC isn t that stupid.The DNC establishment, with their early superdelegate total factoring in, might make it seem like Bernie has an uphill battle, but the voters will largely determine the overall outcome.
Unfortunately, as of right now, though, Bernie didn t win the overwhelming majority of delegates like the citizens of New Hampshire democratically went to the polls for.
But, that s the DNC s rules for you.Featured image from Flickr.