Can we all finally agree that Donald Trump s campaign is just ridiculous at this point?
On Monday, Kellyanne Conway showed up on CNBC to do what she does best: embarrass the human race with her stupidity.Apparently satisfied with Trump s ability to latch on to the next-to-no information referenced by FBI Director Comey s unethical, unprecedented, and likely illegal letter to Republicans.
Comey hasn t reviewed the emails discovered on a computer owned by renowned pervert and husband to unfortunate Clinton aide Huma Abedin, Anthony Weiner, who is currently being investigated for allegedly sexting a 15-year-old girl.The emails likely contain nothing new and have likely already been disclosed, but the Right is in the midst of a feeding frenzy over the non-information contained in the letter, declaring that the investigation into Clinton s emails had been reopened and ramping up the criminal rhetoric.Conway condemned Clinton s suggestion that all the emails be released to the public in other words, an effort to fully inform the public as she called the Clinton campaign sneaky for demanding the facts be released.
Just ask Huma what s on there, just ask Anthony Weiner what s on there, she said during the interview.
They are now trying to politicize the FBI.
Conway accused Clinton of encouraging supporters to boo Comey, who has such a reaction coming for his unethical behavior in the eyes of pretty much anyone who doesn t consider red trucker hats fashionable.
It s a very dangerous precedent to have somebody that was secretary of state, first lady, U.S. senator, wants to be president of the United States and be commander-in-chief encouraging people to boo, she said, apparently forgetting a time not so long ago when Trump and his illiterate, inbred fans also booed the FBI (and Comey specifically).
And where are we now?
Conway said after host Andrew Ross Sorkin pointed out that Trump has called for Clinton s imprisonment multiple times.
She is going to be in her second FBI investigation.
One FBI investigation, let alone two, do we think this is normal?
I think people have been asking the right questions about the wrong candidate.
Who s really unqualified?
Who s unfit to be president?
Who has shown what they would do with their national security information?
Who has shown it s always about her and her petty peevish political self?
Then Sorkin struck a nerve by stating facts namely that Trump has been named in a rather damning child rape lawsuit that is due to start in December.
The girl in question is 13 just one year older than Paris Hilton when Trump says she was hot and two years younger than the models he used to creep on in their dressing rooms.
My understanding is that no matter who wins, we re going to be dealing with the email issue after this if she s the president, Sorkin told Conway.
If Donald Trump is the president, he s got the child rape case that s going to happen that was just given a date.
Naturally, Conway snorted and attempted to deflect, calling any question about the child rape case exactly as legitimate as questions about Trump s taxes, which he has not released: Oh, come on, that you would analogize the two.
Give me a break, she seethed.
Next you are going to ask me where his taxes are.
That s a whole separate issue, but we re going to have legal cases for each candidate, Sorkin countered.
But to Conway, a little child rape is unimportant when Hillary sent some emails and Anthony Weiner is a bit pervy, too: That s such a ridiculous conflation.
To just throw the rape word in there when we ve got 650,000 emails based on an active investigation of Huma Abedin s pedophilia husband because he s sexting pictures of himself to some 15-year-old girl in North Carolina, I think that s just ridiculous.
Don t worry though Conway s pervert is going to Make America Great again by building a wall to keep brown people out, banning and rounding up members of religions he doesn t like, and attempting to resist banging his daughter like he has said he wants to do for all these years starting at around the time he said Paris Hilton was hot when she was 12.Watch the segment below:Featured image via screengrab