WITH A VOTE OF 52-47, SENATOR JEFF SESSIONS WAS CONFIRMED TO BE OUR NEW ATTORNEY GENERAL!Senator Jeff Sessions was just conformed as OUR next AG General!#TrumpCabinet pic.twitter.com/cJWAufnyTL Katherine (@peaceandjoy101) February 9, 2017 Sen. Jefferson Beauregard Sessions III is Donald Trump s friendly but fierce Alabama ally Sessions, a 69-year-old former state attorney general who famously donned the Make America Great Again trucker s cap at a massive rally in Mobile last August, thinks Trump is more a movement than a man.
Yes, Sessions was one of the very first to support Trump: My advice is to listen and accept the will of the American people, the Republican voters the Republican Party is the Republican voters IMMIGRATION is the numero uno reason why the left is freaking out.
Sessions knows everything there is to know about what s going on with immigration.
He s the guy we need right now to help fix immigration.
We are so lucky!
He s been a lone voice out there for so long in the battle on immigration.
This is well deserved!THIS IS WHY WE LOVE ATTORNEY GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS!
PLEASE WATCH THE VIDEO BELOW!SENATOR JEFF SESSIONS has been such a beacon of common sense and patriotism in his battle to save America s sovereignty.
He s fought the battle of illegal immigration and now this battle of refugee resettlement with great focus.
This is yet another example of his passion for doing what s REALLY right for Americans.
Bravo Senator Sessions!Discussion of a nuclear security bill was hijacked in a Senate Judiciary Committee meeting by Sen. Pat Leahy (D-Vt.), who insisted on a Right to Migrate amendment that would bar the United States from banning an potential immigrant based on religion.Sen.
Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) then delivered a rebuttal to Leahy: Fundamentally, foreign nationals living in foreign countries have no constitutional right to enter the United States.
If they did, any alien denied entry could file suit to demand entry and claim damages for lost employment, lost welfare benefits, lost income.
Choosing who can immigrate into the United States is, by definition, an exclusionary process.
The goal is to select immigrants for admission based on the benefits they provide to society based on skills, ages, values, philosophy, incomes, etc.
Our goal is to choose for admission those likeliest to succeed and flourish and, crucially, to support our Constitutional system of government and our values of pluralism and Republican governance.
Sen. Jeff Sessions Rebuts Argument That Muslim Immigration Is A Civil Right