Donald Trump just got owned by a legend.During a concert in Los Angeles, singing icon and longtime Clinton supporter Barbra Streisand took the opportunity to deliver a few sharp barbs at the Republican nominee.First, she brought mentalist Lior Suchard onto the stage and slammed Trump s intellectual capacity.
The only person whose mind he can t read is Donald Trump s, because he doesn t have one, she quipped.Indeed, Trump does not know anything about anything, which is why he uses generalities to make it seem like he knows stuff.
Only the most fervent Trump supporters are actually gullible enough to fall for this scam.
And the Republican leadership, of course.But Streisand saved her best shot for last.She told the story of a fundraiser in which a study was mentioned that said, no matter what the color of your skin or where you were born Cuba, China, Malaysia, Madagascar our genetic make up is 99.9% identical to every person on the face of the earth.
Streisand then waited a beat before delivering a damning and hilarious punchline: The other 0.1% is Donald Trump.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is an embarrassment to the human race and Republicans should be ashamed that they made him the leader of their party.It s too late to do the right thing and replace him now.
The best thing Republicans can do at this point is just admit they made a huge mistake and try to save the country by making sure Trump loses big in November.What started out as a joke is now a serious threat to our democracy and the survival of this nation.
Donald Trump is literally obsessed with using nuclear bombs and there is no way to stop him from doing so if he becomes president.
He would light the world on fire.
This is the culmination of all the hate and fear Republicans have been preaching since President Obama took office in 2009.
It s time for them to take responsibility and take a huge loss this year so they can begin the long task of rebuilding a more inclusive party that actually has ideas and can gain respect.That will not happen if they continue to support Donald Trump and everything he represents.Featured image via Wikimedia