Is Representative Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) the member of Congress who s receiving Alzheimer s drugs from the D.C. pharmacist who revealed a dirty little Washington secret about the drugs he delivers to Congress members only 2 weeks ago?
Nancy s even more bizarre than usual behavior has led a lot of Americans to question her mental capacity and wonder if she s one of the members who s receiving the medications to treat serious health problems ?Something is clearly wrong with Nancy Pelosi.
Why is everyone in Washington DC and in the media ignoring her bizarre and incoherent interviews that leave viewers wondering how in the world she is fit to serve.
American Mirror During her recent weekly press conference, the House Minority Leader was seen stumbling over words, uttering gibberish, staring blankly at reporters, and on at least two occasions, suffering from face spasms.
What an event-filled morning has been, Pelosi began, botching her opening line.It went downhill from there.
Really one that, uh, marks a transf for she said, before staring at reporters barely 10 seconds into the appearance, and finally saying, transformative moment Moments later, she confused trillions and billions.
When President Bush left office the deficit was 1.4 trillion, she said as she suffered an apparent facial spasm, uh, trillion dollars.
So you re talking about an enormous amount of money.
The national debt increased by an enormous amount the debt was 1.4 billion in terms of the deficit.
Watch her incoherent interview here:A Washington D.C. pharmacy revealed on Wednesday that they deliver medications that treat serious health problems to members of Congress, including medications to treat Alzheimer s disease.Pharmacy owner, Dr. Mike Kim, said that he has gotten used to knowing highly sensitive information about some of the most powerful people in Washington, STAT reported.
At first it s cool, and then you realize, I m filling some drugs that are for some pretty serious health problems as well.
And these are the people that are running the country, Kim said, listing treatments for conditions like diabetes and Alzheimer s.Kim expressed concern over some of the serious health problems that members of Congress have because the diseases could severely limit their ability to serve in their elected positions.
It makes you kind of sit back and say, Wow, they re making the highest laws of the land and they might not even remember what happened yesterday.
Daily Wire