We all know that some in high society do some pretty creepy things.
It appears that Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia may not be an exception to this rule.
The Washington Post has reported that the 30 year justice spent his final hours with members of a secret society called the International Order of St. Hubertus.
The organization has its origins in Austria and dates back to the 1600 s.The Post reported that Scalia was at the ranch with members of the secret society and that he had met with them on different occasions, and once previously at the same ranch where he died.
The Post reports:The group, consisting of a bunch of creepy, older men, is hundreds of years old with rituals and costumes.
They opened a chapter in the US for the first time in 1968 at the famous Bohemian Grove in San Fransisco, which is apparently an elite place for holding secret society meetings and a source of controversy throughout the years of its existence.Here s how the group describes itself on its website: The International Order of Saint Hubertus was founded in 1695 by Count Franz Anton von Sporck in what was then the Kingdom of Bohemia, then territory of the Habsburg Empire, now the modern Czech Republic.
The Order was a knightly order with an emphasis on hunting and activities related to the pursuit and management of game animals.
In the Middle Ages and again with the revival of interest in the forms of chivalry in Europe, hunting was considered a basic preparation for warfare and was held among the highest activities a gentleman could pursue.
In addition, Count von Sporck was also a prominent patron of music, having commissioned numerous Vivaldi operas and the four Bach minor Masses for performance at his private Opera House in Prague.
While the group claims to be a simple organization for hunting enthusiasts, its ties to the controversial Bohemian Grove leave many questions unanswered.
Former president Bill Clinton once said of the club: The Bohemian club!
Did you say Bohemian club?
That s where all those rich Republicans go up and stand naked against redwood trees right?
I ve never been to the Bohemian club but you oughta go.
It d be good for you.
You d get some fresh air.
Image via video screen capture.