Who needs experts, really, when one can rely on his or her own intuition?
I mean, Donald Trump clearly knows better than any expert in regards to foreign policy.
Or maybe, he s full of absolute horseshit.While campaigning in La Crosse, Wisconsin, Trump told a crowd of supporters that he s probably not going to rely on any experts.
Sure, he has advisers, but according to Trump, the experts are terrible.
He said: You look at what China s doing in the South China Sea, and they say, Oh, Trump doesn t have experts.
Let me tell you, I do have experts but I know what s happening.
And look at the experts we ve had, OK?
Look at the experts.
All of these people have had experts.
You know, I ve always wanted to say this I ve never said this before with all the talking we all do all of these experts, Oh we need an expert The experts are terrible.
Look at the mess we re in with all these experts that we have.
Look at the mess.
Look at the Middle East.
If our presidents and our politicians went on vacation for 365 days a year and went to the beach, we d be in much better shape right now in the Middle East.
Yep, he really said that, folks.
He apparently thinks we d be better off if we just let ISIS take control and take part in no intervention whatsoever.
At least that s what he just implied.
He clearly thinks we haven t, over the course of decades, set up very valuable relationships, many that are even unheard of, because he thinks he knows better.
He seems to think not knowing anything is better than knowing what you need to know.This is exactly how he is appealing to his imbecilic base of voters who really don t know any better or understand one iota how much of a delicate dance foreign policy is.
Trump wants them to believe that even though he has no experience whatsoever in foreign policy or diplomacy that he is still the man for the job.
Apparently ineptness is a valuable qualification.He s playing his followers like a fiddle and they are clearly too dumb to know the difference.
This isn t only foolish, it s wildly dangerous.
Yes, we need experts.
Yes, we need people who actually have experience and know what they re doing in regards to foreign policy.
For goodness sake, don t fall for his propaganda.
.
@realDonaldTrump: The experts are terrible https://t.co/yOPSgUkx2U pic.twitter.com/J8js5ttV3E POLITICO (@politico) April 4, 2016Featured image via video screen capture