The old reliable stone most commonly used by a group of neanderthals who still adhere to a stone-age mentality.
It s the weapon of choice for Muslim migrants when a knife or machete isn t available.
Because stoning 4 year old boys is such a great way for these migrants to show German citizens how grateful they are for their hospitality A four-year-old boy has been hospitalised after having a stone thrown at him by a resident of a troubled German migrant centre which has seen riots and Islamist violence.The young boy, who has not bee identified, suffered massive bruising after he inadvertently interrupted a football game taking place at the state of Thuringa migrant centre in Suhl, Germany.
The child entered a gymnasium looking for his brothers when he kicked a football, enraging another migrant.The child was then beaten around the head several times with the ball until a supervisor stepped in to end the violence.Unluckily for the small boy, his assailant then caught up with him again after the game, and threw a rock at his head.
Admitted to hospital for serious injuries, police said the boy had massive bruising , reports Focus.de.Police have failed to identify the migrant who caused the injuries to the child.This is not the first time the Suhl migrant receiving centre has made headlines recently.
Breitbart London reported in August after residents staged a major riot at and around the buildings.
The disturbance started as sectarian violence, as an Afghani migrant tore out pages of a Koran and stuffed them down a toilet, and was instantly set upon by fellow Muslims.Fearing the man would be killed as opposing sects of Islam came to blows in the migrant centre, Police moved in to put the migrant into protective custody, but their intrusion into what the participants of the brawl saw as a private fight united to attack the police.
Cries of Allahu Akhbar were heard as officers were pelted with stones, forcing them to retreat and hide in a nearby building.Deprived of police officers to attack, the residents of the asylum shelter turned on the building itself, smashing down doors, breaking windows, and even tearing down internal walls.
Fires were lit, and furniture destroyed.
Eighteen, including six police officers, had to seek hospital treatment.
Via: Breitbart London