Tow the party line or pay a heavy price.
There is no room for dissention in a party where thugs who cut backroom deals with climate change related lobbyists in DC dictate what is best for America.
There s probably a very good reason that the Democrats have an avowed Socialist and a career criminal running neck in neck in their presidential primaries In a shocking exchange on Wednesday, Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Loony Liberal Senator Sheldon Whitehouse discussed whether the DOJ had considered civil action against climate change deniers.
This tells you just how out of control this DOJ is.
If you don t buy into the climate change scam then you will be punished.
That s fine if you live in San Francisco and can afford a Tesla, said Husing.
It s not fine if you re a poor family living in downtown San Bernardino and the folks that stopped that deserve a welcome thanks.
What happens when a Democratic lawmaker strays from party leaders on a key piece of Gov.
Jerry Brown s policy agenda?
One assemblywoman who held back support for a sweeping climate-change bill last year is starting to find out.Rep.
Cheryl Brown (D-San Bernardino) was among a group of business-aligned Democrats who objected to a provision in the bill, SB 350, that would have cut California s motor vehicle petroleum use in half by 2030.Now Brown, a moderate, is facing what could be a bruising reelection fight against an intraparty challenger from the left, attorney Eloise Gomez Reyes.
The race raises a question: What does it mean to be a Democrat in San Bernardino, where concerns over jobs often compete with those about the environment?Some early signs indicate Brown could be in trouble.
Protesters have showed up at her local events.
Some of her supporters have defected, endorsing Reyes early in the fight.
Do you ever feel that something is not going quite right?
Brown said in a recent phone interview.
They are after me, and I still don t know why.
I don t know who they are.
But I will find out soon.
Last week, Brown s suspicions began to crystallize when a dozen students in breathing masks from San Bernardino Valley College threw themselves on the floor of a town hall meeting she hosted.Brown was there to discuss the region s logistics industry and its vast network of trucking and distribution centers, which deliver everything from headphones to heads of lettuce to big-box retailers and Amazon customers throughout Southern California.At the event, Brown supporter John Husing, an economist with the Inland Empire Economic Partnership, discussed SB 350 s scrapped petroleum provision, which was removed after Brown and other Democrats objected to its inclusion.
Husing came to Brown s aid, arguing that lower-income families might have been harmed by potential rising energy costs that may have resulted from implementation of the provision.
That s fine if you live in San Francisco and can afford a Tesla, said Husing.
It s not fine if you re a poor family living in downtown San Bernardino and the folks that stopped that deserve a welcome thanks.
A group of twenty-somethings interrupted him, calling Brown a corporate hack.
They held up signs that read People over Profits and Don t Sell Us Out.
Via: LA Times