Wouldn t it be great if the Obama administration came out with something regarding the terror risk revealed by the FBI?FBI officials sent out a memo warning of terrorist attacks at Super Bowl 50 that could take out the entire fiber-optics system that feeds the arena.
If the fiber-optic cables get cut, it impacts financial institutions, impacts Silicon Valley, said retired assistant Special Agent in Charge Jeffrey Harp, to KPIX 5.
It impacts a lot of infrastructure in that area.
The FBI said it hadn t received a specific threat about the Super Bowl.
But agents also said they ve identified several danger zones outside the stadium they re going to protect as well, CBS News reported.
It s the lone wolf, Harp said.
It s the individual who is self-radicalized that creates a problem that you can t detect.
There s only so much the FBI can do with regard to surveillance within the guidelines of the Constitution.
If someone were to use a drone to disperse something, he said, CBS News reported, it could be a potentially hazardous situation.
Given that his beloved Chicago Bears were pretty much out of contention on the first week of the regular season, President Barack Obama hasn t really paid that much attention to the Super Bowl.
That doesn t mean other people aren t, though including the savages of the Islamic State group.An FBI bulletin claimed there was a significant threat to this year s Super Bowl 50 being held on Feb. 7 at Levi s Stadium in Santa Clara, California from terrorist groups.
There s going to be law enforcement secreted around the stadium that you are not going to see or know about.
They are there, retired FBI Assistant Special Agent In Charge Jeffrey Harp told reporters.
If the fiber optic cables get cut, it impacts financial institutions, impacts Silicon Valley, it impacts a lot of infrastructure in that area, Harp added.Several attacks have already been carried out against fiber optic systems in the Bay Area, disrupting Silicon Valley s extensive tech industry.
None of those crimes have been solved.Via: WNDVia: Conservative Tribune