Former Republican Congressman Joe Walsh appeared on CNN this week where he defended a tweet that he posted threatening President Obama and the Black Lives Matter Movement.
This is now war.
Watch out Obama.
Watch out black lives matter punks.
Real America is coming after you, Walsh tweeted after the shooting in Dallas that resulted in the deaths of five police officers on Thursday.During the appearance, Walsh insisted that he was not trying to incite violence towards President Obama.
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely, because I stand by what I meant, Don, Walsh said.
I didn t intend to say everybody go threaten Barack Obama or incite violence against Barack Obama.
I don t know of a sane person that would do that.
That s not what I meant, Don.
Walsh then went on to blame Obama for the deaths of the officers killed in Dallas.
Because I m pissed off, a lot of Americans are pissed off, and a lot of police officers around the country are upset because there really is a war on our cops and a lot of police officers believe that it started with Barack Obama, Walsh explained.
The last couple of years, Barack Obama has done nothing but hate on cops.
Accusing cops of being bad and racist.
But that s not accusing cops of being racist, Lemon replied.
He s actually pointing out a fact there is systemic racism in this country and there are police departments that need to be reformed.
Walsh then went on to say that most Americans himself excluded of course are just simply too dumb to understand what President Obama has said regarding his public statements on systemic racism in the criminal justice system.
When he said there s systemic racism in the police department after the Minneapolis shooting, he s telling people on the streets that police officers are racist.
Now, maybe you and I can make that distinction, but when people on the street hear the President of the United States time after time say that there is racism in police departments all over the country, man, that kind of hating leads to what you got in Dallas.
Yeah, because This is now war, Real America is coming after you, is such a loving statement to make.
Maybe if has-been Tea Party politicians such as Walsh didn t say things like Obama has done nothing but hate on cops repeatedly on social media and on television, then those average people might not be so quick to jump to the conclusion that President Obama hates police officers.
You would think that a self-identifying above average person like Walsh would understand that.You can watch the segment below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jmENSX7lQigFeatured image from video screenshot