This is truly a sad group of people we ve put in charge of the country.
Trump himself doesn t want to work and seems to be actively avoiding it, his transition team is in chaos, and now, some of his inner circle are reportedly talking about getting revenge on Republicans who opposed him during the election.This is despite the fact that many of those Republicans are now saying that they look forward to working with him.
To be sure, it s not uncommon for incoming administrations to subtly reward loyalty and just as subtly punish opposition.
However, these people (probably because they re tied to Trump, who would expect no less) are being far more blatant about it: The source suggested that Trump s political operation would steer business away from Republicans who were involved in the #NeverTrump effort to block Trump from the GOP nomination.
Denying opponents and critics positions within the administration is one thing.
This is something entirely different.
This has shades of actually trying to ruin some of the Republicans that had enough of a brain and a conscience to refuse to support Trump.And, as Trumpkins are suddenly so fond of saying, the election is over, he won, so move the fuck on.
Except the Republicans who opposed Trump and went over the line in their opposition can now either work with Trump or basically, put up and shut up.
They aren t likely to get very far in continuing to stand against him the way they did during the election cycle.This is as opposed to all the people who are legitimately frightened by the idea of a racist president who appeals to Christian bigots and white supremacists and thinks sexually assaulting women is okay.
We won t be getting over it anytime soon because we re afraid, and with good reason.Trying to ruin Republicans by steering business and what-not away from them isn t the only thing they re discussing, though.
There s also this: [T]he website seen as the unofficial news organ of Trump World, Breitbart News which was co-founded by Trump s campaign chairman and possible White House chief of staff Steve Bannon has signaled that it intends to continue its crusade against House Speaker Paul Ryan.
Anybody who thinks that Bannon doesn t have anything to do with Breitbart s vendetta has another thing coming.
Bannon regularly referred to Ryan as the enemy there, and personally made it Breitbart s mission to destroy him.
The publication has gone at that task with glee and will continue to do so.Ryan, for his part, was full of praise for Trump on Election Night.
He also believes their initial meeting went well.
It may well have, and Ryan is probably clueless about any talk of destroying him.
Or he doesn t believe Trump is directly involved, or that such efforts will even succeed.Whether there s a chance for success or not, this is scary, and it actually sounds exactly like Trump.
All through the election, he felt getting revenge on people who slighted him was more important than actually running for President.
So now, we ve got a man and his inner circle in the White House who seem to believe that revenge is more important than actually building an administration.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images