Huma Abedin, Hillary s right hand woman, told in testimony that she burned Hillary s schedules in a burn bag during her tenure as Secretary of State.
Even though the experts in this field are saying burning your schedule has never been done before, is their any doubt that this is just more underhanded secrecy from Hillary Clinton?
Federal Records Act anyone?
I ve never seen anyone put their schedule in the burn bag because every one of them had a state.gov email address and therefore their daily schedules became public records, as required by law.
Huma Abedin, Hillary Clinton s longtime aide, testified last week that her boss burned her schedules while serving as secretary of state.
If there was a schedule that was created that was her Secretary of State daily schedule, and a copy of that was then put in the burn bag, that that certainly happened on on more than one occasion, Abedin told lawyers representing conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch, according to the New York Post.
While Clinton admitted to deleting personal emails from her homebrew server, this is the first time anyone in Clinton s State Department inner circle admitted to destroying public records while on the job.The burn bag is used to discard sensitive or classified documents.
A former State Department employee told the New York Post it was unprecedented for a diplomat to handle schedules this way.
I spend eight years at the State Department and watched as four U.S. ambassadors and two secretaries of state shared their daily schedules with a variety of State Department employees and U.S. officials, Richard Grenell, a former diploma and U.S. spokesman at the United Nations told the Post.
I ve never seen anyone put their schedule in the burn bag because every one of them had a state.gov email address and therefore their daily schedules became public records, as required by law, Grenell added.
Others who the newspaper talked to suggested the carefulness in how she discarded her schedule highlighted her carelessness when it came to using a private email server.
The president s schedule was not classified but it was deemed highly sensitive, noted Brad Blakeman, a scheduler for President George W. Bush.
Instructions were given at the White House and on the road that schedules would be disposed of through the use of burn bags and/or shredding, Blakeman told the Post.
Read more: Daily Mail