House Republicans tried to pave the way for rampant crime and corruption by voting to gut the Office of Congressional Ethics in a secret meeting, and the ladies of The View were absolutely disgusted.On Monday night, Republican lawmakers voted to strip power from the independent non-partisan panel, forcing them to refer investigations to the House Ethics Committee, which the GOP controls.
Republicans gave themselves the ability to kill investigations and even barred the panel from reporting crimes to law enforcement.The move has generate national outrage, including from Whoopi Goldberg and Joy Behar, who ripped Republicans a new one on Tuesday.Pointing out that House Republicans are apparently insisting that they can police themselves, Goldberg remarked that Trump s promise to drain the swamp is now stuck.
Joy Behar then chimed in with a salvo of her own.
First of all, Congressional ethics is an oxymoron, Behar began.
Particularly in this Congress.
But it s sort of like on the slippery slope towards a dictatorship, you know.
First, we re going to be very secretive about what we do.
We re going to police ourselves.
You re not going to know what bad things we re doing.
We re going to keep it very quiet.
It s very scary.
Sunny Hostin read Donald Trump s pathetic response to the news, in which he only had a problem with Republicans making it their first priority.Behar noted that it s just about priorities, it s not that he cares about ethics of it.
And Hostin piled on by explaining what it means to allow Republicans to police themselves.
[T]his Office of Congressional Ethics was created after all these things happened.
You had a string of really serious ethical issues and now the Republicans are saying, We re going to get rid of that.
We re just going to use the House Ethics Committee and we re just going to police ourselves.
Which means we re going to get an A every time.
It s like, if you made me grade myself, I get an A every time.
Jedediah Bila chimed in by pointing out the hypocrisy of Republicans because they initiated countless investigations against Hillary Clinton but don t want to be investigated themselves for their own wrongdoings, to which Behar replied, You know, Jedediah, when you re shameless there s nothing you can do about it.
They are shameless.
And when Bila slammed Republicans for not standing up against this move, Behar had the perfect response.
It s very hard to stand up when you re spending time on your knees, she said.Here s the video via VidMe.Clearly, the only reason Republicans wanted to gut the Office of Congressional Ethics is because they intend on pulling some incredibly unethical shit in Congress, which could very well include bribes from lobbyists considering the GOP intends to consider infrastructure spending, tax cuts for the wealthy, and massive defense spending.
And the fact that they can t be reported to law enforcement for committing crimes is a complete travesty.Gutting the ethics panel should really be seen as treason because Republicans just gave themselves permission to steal from and cheat the American people with impunity.And after much outrage, Republicans backed away from their unethical agenda.
However, they just want to wait until the story dies down so they can try again.
That s why we need to remain vigilant.Featured image screenshot