Did you know that there are two words Muslims are not allowed to use?
Well, according to Christian conservatives, there are: the words God and greatest, especially together in a sentence as was demonstrated by Christians at a California Catholic church throwing themselves into a panic when a group of three Muslim gentlemen shouted Allahu Akbar!
That phrase, sometimes shouted by religious terrorists who speak Arabic, simply means God is the greatest.
This or Jesus is Lord would be the exact thing shouted by some Christian extremists in America today.
As an atheist, I personally find neither phrase alarming.
Both Muslims and Christians, as well as Jews, worship the same god, and it doesn t matter in which language someone offers praise.That being said, these particular Muslim men shouted Allahu Akbar into an oh-so-dangerous megaphone exactly as Christian street preachers can be seen doing on a regular basis, just in a different language (However, some Christian extremists simply show up at mosques with guns).The unidentified Muslims pulled up in front of St. Andrew Orthodox Church in Riverside, California, on public property, and shouted Allahu Akbar a few times before driving off.
This was a completely harmless encounter with no weapons involved, and they were simply sharing the Christians message: God is the greatest.
But Fox News reports they said the phrase maliciously, as though they do not praise the same god in their own religion.
Nevertheless, these men are Muslim, so panic ensued.
Via Fox News: Allahu Akbar!
the unidentified man repeated several times as the unnerved parents drew their infants close and exchanged worried glances.Witnesses were able to give Riverside police a description of the green Honda Civic, but not of the three occupants.
Some told police they believed one or more of the men may have been taking photographs, according to Officer Ryan Railsback.
Although Trenham insisted multiple congregants heard the Arabic phrase, Railsback noted no mention of it was in the police report.Whatever the case, no law was broken even if an unmistakable message was sent and received.This completely harmless incident that even Fox News had to admit was not a criminal act prompted the Christians to increase security and they want the Muslim men to repent for saying God is the greatest.
Be calm and to keep a special vigilance over the property and our children while we are at church, Trenham wrote in an email to parishioners.
Pray that these provocative young men might repent of their intimidation and be saved.
He says that the situation the situation, once again, being that some Muslims said God is the greatest at a church is tense and tenuous and has vowed to keep new church security officers on hand for all regular services (yes, those two words were so dangerous that they think they need security).
It is a deep sorrow to live this way in the new America, Trenham told Fox.Jim Hoft, head honcho at Gateway Pundit and architect of the Michael Brown fractured Darren Wilson s eye socket lie and many others, decided to portray the incident as such:No, you re not suffering from anything and if you need your eyes checked it has nothing to do with this.
He actually portrayed the phrase God is the greatest as a threat.
Just to add to the drama, MUSLIMS is in ALLCAPS.
Hoft s readers were more than happy to heap more hate on the manure pile: This was a brilliant move on the part of the Muslim men.
all they had to do was repeat a common Christian message in Arabic, and the bigots quickly revealed themselves for who they are.
Was it a bit immature?
Sure, but it was effective.Featured image via screengrab