In a stunning example of just how morally bankrupt right-wing media has become in the Age of Trump, Breitbart the conservative website often described as Trump s de facto propaganda wing wrote a lavish piece praising Melania Trump for her high fashion outfits while accompanying her husband on his first overseas trip.Who cares, right?
Why would anyone have a problem with what the first lady is wearing on a trip?Well, Breitbart, the very same website, seems to albeit only when it s the African-American wife of America s first African-American president.
Here s the sneering way they covered Michelle Obama s decision to wear a $3,200 dress on the former president s visit with the pope.Politico reports that First Lady Michelle Obama, looking lovely and classy, greeted Pope Francis Tuesday while wearing a $2,290 dress.
While the Obamas are not Catholics, this is still a finger-in-the-eye to a White House guest who frequently speaks out to wild Democrat applause about the evils of excessive capitalism.And adding to the absurd critique:According to WorldVision, you can feed a child for just $35 a month.
Michelle Obama s dress would feed over 80 children for that month.
This choice obviously is contrary to the values of Pope Francis.
But the Obamas religious values come from elsewhere, a divisive and disturbing place, not a charitable or unifying one.Almost beyond parody.Flash forward to this weekend.
Melania was treated to a photo spread, with Brietbart praising her outfits, including an expensive custom-made creation from fashion designer Dolce & Gabbana.In a visit to meet Pope Francis, Melania worked with Dolce & Gabbana, again, on a stunning custom-made, black coat-dress that showed off a beautiful round collar, framing the First Lady s face.
The look was paired with a black lace Mantilla and black Manolo Blahnik stilettos, sticking to the Vatican dress code.The next day, Melania would don a dress that cost $51,000.
Conservatives didn t bat an eye.Let s crunch those numbers through Breitbart s bullshit calculator:According to WorldVision, you can feed a child for just $35 a month.
Melania Trump s dress would feed over 1400 children for a month.
But then the Trump s religious values come from elsewhere, a divisive and disturbing place, not a charitable one.
(This comparison, however tongue-in-cheek, is actually unfair in more ways than one, the Obamas actually do have a history of charitable giving.
Trump is famous for not donating to charity.
A truly divisive and disturbing worldview, if there ever was one.
)As the above passages exemplify, Breitbart loved to apply ridiculous, nonsense standards to the Obamas that they would never dream of holding the Trump family up to.
The website once run by anti-Semite Steve Bannon and which has a section devoted to black crime has some pretty obvious, bigoted reasons for hating the Obamas.
It s egregious but not particularly surprising then that they would find the white first lady s opulence charming while finding the black first lady s show of class distressing.Featured image via Franco Origlia/Getty Images / h/t Mikel Jollett