WORLD RELIEF received over $43 million dollars last year from the feds!
They are only one of 9 refugee contractors who make money off of each refugee they bring in.
The program was started by Ted Kennedy and Joe Biden 35 years ago.
It has exploded to be an industry whereby the agency gets paid per refugee so it makes sense for them to try and make the feds take in more and more of these people.THE BIGGER PROBLEM: The taxpayer pays for all of the goodies the refugee gets so World Relief never covers the education, healthcare and many other things that YOU end up paying for!!
!The CEO of World Relief and most other agencies all receive a six figure income .YOUR MONEY!
SCOTT ARBEITER, WORLD RELIEF S CEO, MAKES $200,000 A YEAR!
Arbeiter was on Tucker Carlson tonight trying to explain away how it s ok to take tax dollars from Americans:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lfCv0eQX6cANN CORCORAN OF REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT WATCH:In September, World Relief settled 1,400 refugees through churches and its 26 offices across the country.
In the past year, the organization has worked with 9,759 refugees, the largest number of refugees to go through its office since 1999, according to Christianity Today, having partnered with 1,180 congregations.World Relief is one of nine organizations authorized by the federal government to help resettle refugees.
Others include Church World Service, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), Episcopal Migration Ministries, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.I laughed at the use of the word authorized as if WR only had to get an authorization (a stamp of approval) and then was completely operating with Christian charity instead of mostly federal tax dollars.
This is how they spin the lazy media, never mentioning that this is a business a business that could not function without your money!Incidentally, it is World Relief (a member in good standing of the Christian LEFT) that sent around a memo to staff over a year ago to tell them to not give out any R & P Abstracts for any of you calling looking for the plan for your local community.Checking the most recent Form 990 for World Relief we see that they had a total gift/grants income of $58,487,081 and $42,589,050 was provided by you, the US taxpayer, making their federally-funded share of their budget 73% taxpayer funded.I went back 6 years and their income from you jumped about $11.5 million over that time.
That of course correlates with the fact that they placed more refugees into your towns each year and since they are paid by the head, that makes sense.Here is a screen shot of page 9 (this info.
is usually on page 9) of World Relief s most recent 990.
You can find several years of WR s 990 s here if you want to have a deeper look into their finances.
All IRS 501(c)3 organizations are required to make their financial information public, so remember that if you are trying to get Form 990s for a local group.