It s a job killer.
It s a small business killer.
It will eventually kill America and America s working class, so a rule that Obama put in place via executive order, which expands overtime pay for salaried workers, must go.
At least that s how pro-rich, trickle-down obsessed Republicans see it.
And now they have reason to cheer a federal judge in Texas has blocked that rule.
It would have extended overtime pay to millions of American workers.There s a problem, though.
A glaring one that Igor Volsky pointed out on Twitter.
The very people that the GOP claims to represent, particularly now that Trump is president, are the ones who will be hurt the worst by blocking this rule.
It raised the mandatory overtime threshold from $23,660 to $47,500.They ve also forgotten that they re far wealthier than the millions of people who would have benefited from this rule.
Here are just three examples:Paul Ryan s net worth = $566,1038He s cheering that 187,000 Wisconsinites earning less than $47,476 won t get paid for working overtime https://t.co/Ea513ncXE1 igorvolsky (@igorvolsky) November 23, 2016Ted Cruz s net worth = $3,013,518He s cheering that 1,244,000 Texans earning less than $47,476 now won t get paid for working overtime https://t.co/fRw7dmh3gm igorvolsky (@igorvolsky) November 23, 2016McCain s net worth = $19,642,067He s cheering that 258,000 Arizonians earning less than $47,476 won t get paid for working overtime https://t.co/DHm28iF4h9 igorvolsky (@igorvolsky) November 23, 2016Yes, Judge Amos Mazzant said the rule actually violated the overtime stipulations of the Fair Labor Standards Act because it applied a salary-only test to overtime pay instead of the current classifications which are based on job position.However, businesses often use that part of the FLSA to justify paying as many employees as possible a pittance.
They either wrongly classify many employees as exempt when they shouldn t be under the law, or they change job titles to things like manager to justify making them exempt.
Then they continue to pay a pittance and treat them like hourly employees.
All of this is illegal.It s easy for Republicans to say that blocking the overtime rule will help these hardworking Americans keep their jobs.
They never think about the fact that people don t have jobs because they think it ll be fun or because they re bored.
People have jobs because they have to work to live.And it s time Republicans stop pretending that it s perfectly okay for workers to be unable to make ends meet despite working insane hours or multiple jobs, because hey, at least they have a job.Champions of the working class?
Hardly.
It s more important to continue letting business run amok and claim that they re reining in Obama s supposedly extreme use of executive power.
This is same ol , same ol from the GOP.
The working class voters that voted Republican over their economic situations are the ones who will be hurt worst.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images