Now we know the real reason why Republicans oppose universal healthcare.Donald Trump s Army Secretary nominee Mark Green is a Tennessee state senator who thinks healthcare is an obstacle that prevents churches from converting people to Christianity.Apparently, is people are healthy, it s a lot harder for them to be taken advantage of.
The sick, on the other hand, will be desperate to feel better, and without healthcare to make them better, Green says they ll be forced to turn to God.
The person who s in need they look to the government for the answer, not God, and I think in that way government has done an injustice that s even bigger than just the creation of an entitlement welfare state, Green said in 2015.
In this setting, I ll share the story, I think it interrupts the opportunity for people to come to a saving knowledge of who God is.
I see our sort of government-based assistance taking God out of the picture, Green said.
If you look at the Gospels and you go and study the Gospels, every person who came to Christ came to Christ with a physical need.
It was either hunger or a disease.
People go to God because of a physical need and they walk away with a spiritual need met.
In other words, Green opposes healthcare because he wants sick people to be desperate enough to convert to his religion.
This is all about forcing people to accept a religious belief if they are sick instead of giving them the medical care they need.
Basically, this is blackmail on a sickening level.Republicans are basically saying that sick people should have to become devout Christians first before getting the healthcare they need.On Thursday, House Republicans voted to strip healthcare from millions of Americans.
The bill also fails to cover those with pre-existing conditions and gives a massive tax gift to the wealthy.
One wonders if Green s beliefs figured into their morally bankrupt decision.The bottom line is that people should not have to adopt a religious belief in order to get healthcare.Such a system is cruel and further breaks down faith in religious institutions.
Churches would become nothing more than prisons where the less devout and non-believers are punished by being denied real healthcare.That s not what America is all about.Featured Image: Wikimedia