It wasn t too long ago that Republican nominee Donald Trump made us feel sick to our stomach when he told Gold Star parent Khizr Khan, the father of a Muslim soldier that was killed defending this country, that he had made a lot of sacrifices.
It was a disgusting claim, as few people have been as entitled as Trump but his campaign is back at it again, trying to depict Trump as someone who has actually worked hard.On Thursday, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway insisted that the reason people were voting for Trump was because they appreciated all of the sacrifices he made by running for the White House.
In a completely delusional interview with CNN s Chris Cuomo, Conway said: Donald Trump is closing with a positive message.
He s talking about his love for the country, his love for the people, what he s going to do to help them solve everyday problems.
And Hillary Clinton, unfortunately, has gone lower and lower.
They re going totally negative.
Obviously, the Trump campaign is now ignoring the fact that its entire campaign strategy has been negative, hateful and divisive.
Conway s next statement was even more ridiculous, because Trump has tanked horribly with female voters and shown that he has zero respect for them throughout his entire life.
Female voters especially don t like that.
They feel they deserve and should be respected to have a substantive conversation.
Conway called Trump, who has scammed and insulted more people than we can count throughout his campaign, incredibly gracious and really funny.
And he s doing this for all the right reasons.
I mean, I think people will look back at this campaign particularly after he wins on Tuesday and they ll say, we totally missed how much America just appreciated how much America appreciated the fact that he and his family made enormous sacrifices to run for president.
Really, enormous sacrifices?
This statement is just as sickening as when Trump mentions that small loan of one million dollars that his father gave him as he whines about how hard his life has been as a wealthy white male.
Trump and his family basically had riches handed to them, and they haven t used it to do good.
Even Trump s charities have failed to give back as much as Trump says they have.Considering she d already made so many false statements, Conway decided to go for the gold when she trashed Clinton and the Democratic Party.
She said: I mean, this is not the Democratic Party that you and I grew up in, Chris.
It has gone so far to the left, I can t even reach my hand out and touch it.
Cuomo deserves an award for keeping a straight face through this.
You can watch Conway in action below:Featured image is a screenshot