It was recently reported that someone within the highest ranks of the Trump White House was being looked at in the Trump-Russia investigation.
Now, NBC News is reporting that it is indeed Donald Trump s son-in-law and closest adviser, Jared Kushner, who the FBI suspects of having a hand in the potential collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in an effort to fix the 2016 presidential election.It seems that the agents probing this incredibly complex and sprawling case believe that Kushner knows more than he is letting on when it comes to what happened between the Russians and the Trump campaign in the efforts that very likely had a significant effect on the outcome of this election, and thus undermined our democracy and changed the course of history.
Despite all of this, it is important to note that the investigation does not put Kushner on the same level as people like fired campaign chair Paul Manafort and disgraced National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
Both of those former Trump confidantes are actually targets in this investigation; in fact, Flynn has even defied Congress on the issue of subpoenaed documents.
Still, though, Kushner is a Senior Adviser to Trump, and has the highest security clearance, which allows him access to the nation s most sensitive secrets.
If he is potentially compromised by the Russians, this is a very serious situation indeed.As is always the case in such situations, Kushner s legal representative, Jamie Gorelick, has released the following statement: Mr. Kushner previously volunteered to share with Congress what he knows about these meetings.
He will do the same if he is contacted in connection with any other inquiry.
This is more than just an inquiry.
Someone in the highest levels of our government, in the inner circle of this alleged president, inside our White House, is somehow possibly connected to the meddling in our democratic process by a foreign adversary.Jared Kushner needs to be removed immediately, with his security clearance revoked.
Of course, with the GOP controlling everything, that won t happen, because they put party before country, and they don t care how dangerous this is.Be very, very afraid, America.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images