Two of the most despicable RINO s (Republicans In Name Only) in DC just can t seem to keep their mouths shut when it comes to opposing any measures Trump takes to defend our nation.
Wouldn t it have been great if they had been as vocal when Barack Obama was our President?
Aside from his honorable service to our nation while in our military, John McCain has offered very little in the past decade to our nation.
Now might be a good time for constituents in their districts to think about replacing Arizona Senator John McCain and South Carolina s Senator Lindsey (crybaby) Graham with someone who puts our nation first and their political relevance dead last Republican senators.
John McCain and Lindsey Graham on Sunday denounced President Donald Trump s executive order on travel from several Muslim-majority countries, calling it hasty and warning that it could prove counterproductive in the fight against terrorism.McCain, Arizona s senior senator and the GOP s 2008 presidential nominee, and Graham, a South Carolina politician who also competed briefly for the 2016 nomination, are both considered hawkish on national security.
However, they frequently buck their party on key issues, which in the past has drawn the ire of grassroots conservatives.They join several of their GOP Senate colleagues, including Ben Sasse of Nebraska, Jeff Flake of Arizona, Susan Collins of Maine and Rob Portman of Ohio, in criticizing the measure.
The White House has defended the order, arguing it is necessary to properly vet people coming into the U.S. from nations with terrorism concerns.Late Friday, Trump signed the order, which indefinitely bars Syrian refugees from entering the country.
It also suspends all refugee admissions for 120 days and blocks citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the country for 90 days.
CNBCTrump didn t waste any time blasting these two Presidential race losers, who both seem to have a penchant for war: The joint statement of former presidential candidates John McCain & Lindsey Graham is wrong they are sadly weak on immigration.
The two Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017 Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017Watch Mike Huckabee tell Fox News host Bill Hemmer: He didn t ban people from 7 countries.
I don t know if John McCain read the executive order, he might want to do that because those countries are not mentioned in the executive order.
The only country mentioned is Syria.
Where did that list of 7 come from?
It came from the Obama administration dating back to 2011, signed into law and I assume John McCain probably voted for that law.