To say that President-elect Donald Trump is bent out of shape over the recount initiated by Green Party candidate Jill Stein is a serious understatement.
Not only did Trump recently call Stein s filing for a recount in Wisconsin a scam, but he had a meltdown of epic proportions on Twitter last night, which carried over into this morning.In a massive tweetstorm, Trump attacked his former rival for the White House, Hillary Clinton, and the Democratic Party.
He tweeted: The Democrats, when they incorrectly thought they were going to win, asked that the election night tabulation be accepted.
Not so anymore!
Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the victory speech and after the results were in.
Nothing will change.
Trump s obviously nervous, because there were already discrepancies in votes found in several precincts in Wisconsin and they only showed on Trump s ballots.
There s a problem when there are more votes than actual people who voted.Trump continued and tried to portray Clinton as a hypocrite for getting behind Stein s recount, using her own words against her.
Quoting Clinton s response to Trump s own accusations that the election was rigged against him and his refusal to concede if he lost, Trump wrote: That is horrifying.
That is not the way our democracy works.
Been around for 240 years.
We ve had free and fair elections.
We ve accepted the outcomes when we may not have liked them, and that is what must be expected of anyone standing on a during a general election.
I, for one, am appalled that somebody that is the nominee of one of our two major parties would take that kind of position.
Trump also pointed out that Clinton called Trump s refusal to accept the election s results a direct threat to our democracy.
It should be noted that Clinton gracefully accepted the results, and promised to regardless of the outcome unlike Trump.
In a last attempt to make Clinton look bad, Trump used a quote from her concession speech.
He tweeted: We have to accept the results and look to the future, Donald Trump is going to be our president.
We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead.
And completely oblivious to the fact that the Republican Party has wasted more than enough money on the ridiculous scavenger hunt into Clinton s emails, Trump said: So much time and money will be spent same result!
Sad.
Here s the full tweetstorm:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterFeatured image via Andrew Renneisen / Getty Images