Looking back at all of the offensive, ridiculous things that Republican front runner Donald Trump has said over the past few months, it seems that Trump would probably have a more promising career in stand-up comedy than politics.
But unfortunately for the rest of us, Trump is still a leading presidential candidate for the Republican party and continues to say more insane, delusional nonsense every day.One of the latest Trump ramblings reveals just how little Trump cares about the safety of America s youth.
Maureen Dowd recently wrote a column about the front runner, pulling from a recent interview she had with Trump.
Like every interview the business mogul partakes in, it s absolutely insane.Trump performed his typical bullying tactics, from insulting total whack job Megyn Kelly and attacking Elizabeth Warren before hilariously denying that he was a misogynist or racist.
Trump said, Honestly, I m with the people.
The people like Trump.
While that s pretty bad, the most shocking part of the interview came when Trump spoke about his rallies, which have become infamous for their violence.Despite the fact that he has absolutely encouraged violence at his rallies and even promised to protect his supporters if they attacked a protester, Trump continues to deny that his campaign events are anything but peaceful.
In fact, over the last few days he has blamed the outrageously rabid behavior of his fans on both Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton.
Trump s dishonesty and delusion run so deep that when Trump was asked if parents should be concerned about bringing their children to rallies where cursing, physical assaults and bullying are par for the course, Trump said this: The rallies are the safest places a child could be.
Trump was then questioned about a particular incident in which a man rushed the stage, causing him to visibly quiver in fear.
Trump, denying that he felt he was in any danger at all, said, I got credit for that because it looked like I was moving toward him.
He also said that when his protesters scream at agitators or protesters, it adds a little excitement.
Clearly, Trump s rallies are NOT a safe place for a child, and it s terrifying that Trump is denying this and ENCOURAGING his supporters to bring their kids into such a chaotic, unstable environment.
The scary thing is, Trump s supporters hang on to his every word and are probably too dense to know any better.While Trump continues to deny that his rallies are extremely dangerous, several more incidents of violence happened at a Tuscan, Arizona rally yesterday ironically the same day that Dowd s column about Trump was published.
During the rally, a man was punched, kicked and stomped on the ground, and Trump s own campaign manager was seen grabbing the collar of a protester.
Previously, Trump s campaign manager was accused of assaulting a female reporter.And those are not isolated instances.
This type of violence follows Trump everywhere he and his protesters go.
These attacks are sometimes racially motivated, and sometimes for no reason at all (attacks on peaceful protesters have become quite common).
Suggesting that parents expose their children to the type of bigotry, racism and all-around disgusting behavior that we ve seen from Trump and his minions is despicable.
Through his denial and lies, Trump has greatly endangered America s youth.Featured image via Gage Skidmore