FBI Director James Comey said during a Senate Judiciary Committee oversight hearing that he was looking into whether agents at the bureau leaked sensitive information to reporters or public figures, including close Trump ally Rudy Giuliani, during the 2016 presidential election.The highly anticipated hearing was revealing.During a Senate Judiciary Committee oversight hearing, Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT) asked about former FBI official Jim Kallstrom s and Giuliani s claims that they had inside information about the bureau s probe into Hillary Clinton s use of a private email server.
Now either they re lying or there is a serious problem within the bureau, Leahy said.
Did anybody in the FBI during this 2016 campaign have contact with Rudy Giuliani about the Clinton investigation?
I don t know yet, but if I find out that people were leaking information about our investigations whether to reporters or private parties, there will be severe consequences, Comey said.Comey went on to say that he was very, very interested in getting to the bottom of the matter and that once the FBI did so, he would inform the committee.Last October, the former New York City mayor and Trump adviser, hinted at the FBI s reopening of its email investigation into Clinton during an appearance on Fox & Friends October 25.
People speculated that Giuliani appeared to have an inside contact with the agency who was giving him information.Giuliani said the Trump campaign had a couple of surprises left , and said that further revelations were coming.The very next day Giuliani told Fox s Martha MacCallum that there was a surprise or two that you re going to hear about in the next two days.
The former mayor and Trump surrogate also claimed to be in contact with numerous FBI officials, then later, he backpedaled that remark, saying that his sources were all former agents.However, during multiple cable news interviews before the election, Giuliani bragged that former agents had clued him into the revolution coming on in the FBI in regards to how the probe into Clinton s email server was handled.During the hearing, Comey also slammed Wikileaks as intelligence porn.
The FBI director went on to call Russia the greatest threat of any nation on earth, given their intention and capability, to U.S. political systems.By the way, has anyone seen Rudy Giuliani lately?
He has suddenly disappeared from cable news.
Weird, huh?
It s almost as if he knows a storm is coming.Next week it will be Sally Yates O Clock and she will testify about Michael Flynn.This is what we call karma and it s spelled, ha ha ha ha ha ha haaa!
Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images.