Mike Pence is a huge homophobe.
He supports ex-gay conversion therapy, opposes hate crimes protections for LGBTQ people, is staunchly against marriage equality, and once said that he believes that same-sex couples will lead to societal collapse.
To that end, the folks who are being forced to live near the now- vice president-elect near his newly rented house in Washington, DC are none too happy with their new neighbor.
However, instead of protesting him with rallies in the streets, they ve decided to troll him instead.The residents in the Chevy Chase neighborhood are hanging large rainbow flags on their homes to send a signal to Mike Pence that his homophobia is not welcome in their neck of the wood.
According to local station WJLA: A respectful message showing, in my case, my disagreement with some of his thinking, said Ilse Heintzen.The he Heintzen is referring to is Vice-President Elect Mike Pence.
Pence moved into a house on Heintzen s block where he will stay on-and-off until he moves into the Vice-President s mansion on the grounds of the Naval Observatory next year.Neighbors started hanging the pride flags after the VP-Elect moved in because the LGBTQ community has criticized Pence s policies regarding LGBTQ rights.Here are a couple images of the collective rainbow F-YOU to Pence, via Twitter:#Pride flags sending message to @mike_pence outside temporary #DC home.
Neighbors say more are coming.
@NewsChannel8 @ABC7News #LGBTQ #LGBT pic.twitter.com/a2bfKfJ0yL Tim Barber (@ABC7TimBarber) December 1, 2016Residents on NW Washington Street where VP Elect Pence is renting a house are sending him a symbolic message.
More residents may hang flags pic.twitter.com/fldYsMoP6i Suzanne Kennedy (@ABC7Suzanne) November 30, 2016There are more flags to come, too, according to locals.
These people are doing a great thing by letting Pence know that his bigotry is not welcome, and that he d best not attempt to display it in their presence.
On the other hand, this likely will cause another meltdown from Trump, who will undoubtedly accuse these people of harassing Pence for his bigoted views, just as happened with the Hamilton staff.Either way, this signals that there will be absolutely no tolerance for their bigotry, no matter how hard they push.
Hopefully, their heads explode on this one before they even take office.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images