CNN s Brooke Baldwin interviewed Fox Sports radio host Clay Travis about his thoughts on remarks made by racist ESPN host Jemele Hill when she called President Trump and Kid Rock white supremacists .
Travis attempted to explain how he was passionate about the defense of Hill s First Amendment Right, but felt that ESPN needs to be consistent with who they retain and who they fire over controversial remarks.
Travis took it one step further when he told Baldwin: I m a First Amendment absolutist, I believe in only two things completely, the First Amendment and boobs.
Brooke Baldwin, who has laughed at CNN host Don Lemon as he remarked about Kathy Griffin s rack on live tv, pretended to be shocked and offended by Travis remarks.Baldwin responded, Hold hold hold on.
I just want to make sure I heard you correctly, as a woman hosting this show What did you just say?
Watch the video below.
We re not sure what is funnier, Clay Travis comments, Brooke Baldwin s attempt to feign disgust or the leftist ESPN commentator Keith Reed s stunned expression.OOPS!
It appears as though Brooke Baldwin is only offended when conservatives make off-color remarks about breasts on TV.
Watch, as Don Lemon tells former comedian Cathy Griffin that she has a Nice Rack while standing next to Brooke Baldwin.
NO double standard here The video above was just part of the drunken exchange between CNN s Don Lemon and Brooke Baldwin that took place on New Years Eve 2017.
Here s more of the off-color comments made live during the CNN s New Years Eve coverage:Hey @BrookeBCNN how did you not faint when Kathy Griffin said nipple & Don Lemon got his nipple pierced live on TV?
https://t.co/LRMr50n0C3 Clay Travis (@ClayTravis) September 15, 2017Travis was going after CNN hard, calling them fake news on his Twitter account after the incident exploded on social media.
Travis claimed that CNN has already asked him to appear on the show again on Monday.CNN is so offended that they already called me and asked if I could come back on Monday.
Too perfect.
Clay Travis (@ClayTravis) September 15, 2017CNN refuted his claim that they invited him back, so Travis says he going to play a voicemail to prove they re lying:CNN's now lying & saying they didn't invite me back on for Monday.
I'll play voicemail for everyone on tomorrow's @outkick show.
#fakenews Clay Travis (@ClayTravis) September 15, 2017Race baiter extraordinaire Tariq Nasheed, who can turn grandma baking cookies into a racial issue, had this to say about Travis remarks.
LOL!
That stunt that Clay Travis pulled on CNN is a tactic commonly used by white extremists .They will troll in order to get their numbers up Tariq Nasheed (@tariqnasheed) September 15, 2017Travis responded to his hilarious tweet:Liking boobs makes you a white supremacist, guys.
https://t.co/CU1qrqXUC4 Clay Travis (@ClayTravis) September 15, 2017Twitter users had a hay day with Brooke Baldwin feigning outrage over Travis comment:Killjoy "Brooke Baldwin" Can't Handle A Boob Joke, But Has ZERO Problems Working w/The BIGGEST BOOB In Broadcast News, #DonLemon #CNNSucks pic.twitter.com/eGtETPW5Qy Deplorable R z rbak (@MediaJuggernaut) September 15, 2017