One of Donald Trump s advisors thought he was going on CNN to smear Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton, but instead he was embarrassed on national television for spewing more of Trump s lies.On Friday afternoon, Trump had spoken at an event for the National Rifle Association, where he attacked Clinton s positions on guns so that the right-wing organization would endorse him.
Later that day, Trump advisor Stephen Miller echoed Trump s words on CNN, only to be met with hysterical laughter.Host Don Lemon brought up Trump s pandering NRA speech and called the presumptive Republican nominee out for telling lies about Clinton wanting to get rid of the 2nd Amendment.
Lemon said: I want to talk about the 2nd Amendment.
Because Donald Trump continues to say that Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the 2nd Amendment.
That is false.
That is false by every fact-checker, by the campaign, by her, by everyone who is listening but Donald Trump.
Why does he continue to say that?
Miller could barely finish Because it s true before the entire panel Lemon included erupted into laughter at the ridiculous statement.
Once the laughter had died down, Miller continued to claim that Clinton wanted to overturn the Supreme Court s District of Columbia v. Heller decision that shot down a law that made carrying an unregistered gun illegal, and prohibited the registration of handguns while other weapons were allowed.Miller said that if this decision was overturned, the 2nd Amendment would no longer exist.
Guest Sally Kohn jumped in and countered that there had been restrictions on guns long before the Heller decision, and that even Constitutional originalist Antonin Scalia believed that guns should have some restrictions and regulations.You can watch Trump s advisor humiliate himself in the video below:Trump says Clinton wants to end the 2nd amendment, despite PolitiFact rating the claim false.
@donlemon has more.
https://t.co/GVpoTVIzY8 CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) May 21, 2016Featured image via screen capture