Internet hacktivist collective Anonymous is not to be f*cked with.
While they are huge supporters of free speech and freedom of expression, what they are not huge supporters of is organized hate.
Therefore, it should be no surprise that they have used a DDoS attack to take down a website belonging to one of the oldest hate groups in America: the Klu Klux Klan.
As of this writing, the Loyal White Knights of the KKK website is still inaccessible.The group was questioned regarding their insistence that the Klan does not deserve to spread their message online, despite their adamant position that everyone deserves a voice.
They told Hackread: We targeted the KKK [because] we believe in free speech but their form of beliefs is monolithic and evil.
We stand for constitutional rights but they want anyone who is not Caucasian removed from earth so we targeted the KKK official website to show love for our boots on the ground and to send a message that all forms of corruption will be fought.
We are not fascist but we certainly do not agree with the KKK movement.
They are the Fascists and they are the Racists.
Anonymous is right, of course.
Free speech is one thing, while hate speech is quite another.
The Klan, the Aryan Nation, and other racist hate groups incite violence and mayhem at every turn, resulting in the terrorizing of minority communities, violence against said communities, and sometimes even death.
They are also responsible for the crime of creating new generations of bigots among impressionable youth, and they keep systemic bigotry going and help continue its perpetuation as an integral part of the society in which we live.The Klan is a group that should not be allowed to exist.
However, since the Constitution forbids the government s disbanding of such hateful organizations, we must have groups that counter their disgusting messages of bigotry.
If that includes hacking their websites and disallowing the spreading of their hate via the interwebs, then so be it.Good going, Anonymous.
Keep up the good work.Featured image via JEAN-CHRISTOPHE VERHAEGEN /Getty Images