The NRA s Executive Vice President Wayne La Pierre appeared on CBS s Face the Nation Sunday morning where he and Face the Nation host John Dickerson sat down to discuss U.S. gun policy in the wake of the Orlando massacre.
Well, that s at least what the topic of discussion appeared to be.
The reality is that LaPierre decided to go on a lengthy rant that made him sound as if he is some mad man preaching about the end of days.Dickerson began the interview by questioning La Pierre about the fact that the gunman responsible for the massacre was able to legally purchase an assault rifle despite having been previously investigated by the FBI.
LaPierre decided to divert the question by talking about how the narrative that has emerged around gun regulations is nothing more than an attempt to divert attention away from fighting terrorism.
You can t save the country with politics.
It s all being politicized with a politically correct White House s nose and fingers in areas they don t belong, said La Pierre.
We need to look right in the face of what these people are, they don t care about the law.
I mean, these bad guys we re facing, they don t say, Oh gosh, they passed a law.
Oh gosh, I don t think I can do it.
It s like what we re doing with this debate on the hill right now, it s like they are trying to stop a freight train with a piece of Kleenex.
The entire interview boils down to a fear-based advertisement for guns.
Right down to La Pierre s statement that terrorists are on the verge of overwhelming us.
So far, no evidence has emerged to suggest that Omar Mateen, the gunman in the Orlando shooting, was seriously working with any international terrorist organization.
Evidence has been piling up that speaks to the contrary.
Including Mateen s apparent lack of understanding of basic middle eastern politics, his history of violent outbursts, and his intolerance of LGBT people.What La Pierre and the rest of the NRA will never admit to is that Mateen was a homegrown terrorist and that their organization is politically and culturally influential in producing such terrorists.
Or the fact that the gun manufacturers which they represent benefit from mass shootings.You can watch the interview below.Featured image from video screenshot