Thanks to an absurd legal ruling, Donald Trump won t have to answer to charges of defrauding people of tens of thousands of dollars until after the election.
A federal judge decided it would be unfair to make him testify while he s running for office presumably because it could give people the impression that he s a conniving huckster who fleeces gullible rubes in order to line his pockets.
Heaven forbid.Trump s lawyers were extremely satisfied that they managed to convince a federal judge to schedule Trump s trial including his appearance on the witness stand after a previous judge had scheduled the hearing for June.
It could have seriously hurt his political career.
Instead, a San Diego judge told Trump s legal team that the law could wait until late November three weeks after the election.Donald Trump will testify after the presidential election on a class-action lawsuit that accuses the billionaire businessman and his now-defunct Trump University of defrauding people who paid up to $35,000 for real estate seminars.It seems likely that, should Trump win, the lawyers will change their mind about Trump attending the trial, however.
He ll be busy organizing his transition team and preparing to move to the Oval Office (or moving the Oval Office to Trump Tower, perhaps).It would seem that getting to the bottom of whether or not Donald Trump willfully defrauded eager students of non-existent real estate seminars of $35,000 would be very important for voters who are deciding whether or not to put that man in office.
As it stands, most voters will likely have no idea of the pending litigation against Trump come Election Day.As if to highlight the baffling favoritism, the FBI recently announced that despite not finding any evidence that Hillary Clinton committed any crimes with her emails, they are asking her to come into conduct a series of interviews with them just to be sure.
The meetings will be sure to be covered wall-to-wall on the news networks and will lend further credence to spurious claims that she had done something wrong.
Fair and balanced.So there we have it: One candidate who has never been charged is subjected to endless scrutiny and legal harassment.
Another who has more pending and settled lawsuits than any presidential candidate in U.S. history got a federal judge to do him a solid and postpone justice for the people who he ripped off before he decided he d move onto bigger scams.
If the moral arc of the universe does indeed bend towards justice, than we are still clearly behind the curve.Featured image via Tom Pennington/Getty Images