Close your eyes and imagine a white professor telling his students there will be no peace as long as blackness exists.
Now picture that teacher in the unemployment line with about 100 cameras and reporters around him demanding he apologize for his blatant racism.
Imagine how many hard working parents are scrimping and saving to send their children to college to be part of a captive audience in this racist s classroom.
Parents better start speaking up and demanding these colleges and universities hold these radical, racist professors accountable for the things they are teaching our children.
No one else is going to do it for us James Harrison, history professor at Portland Community College, said in a lecture Monday for the college s April Whiteness History Month that peace in the U.S. is impossible so long as whiteness still exists.In a talk entitled Imagine A World Without Whiteness, Harrison declared confidently conflict can only cease once the power structure of whiteness is totally eliminated.
Imagine everyone living life in peace, Harrison said, building off John Lennon s famous song Imagine.
And how do we get to that good world is the question a world without conflict.
And to me, my interpretation of these words, is it would be a world, or U.S., without whiteness, in terms of the power structure, Harrison said, offering his own interpretation of Lennon s song.
Can there be a world without whiteness, a world in which white privilege doesn t exist?
Harrison asked his audience.
My answer is yes, we can, because it s happened before, and it all revolves around individuals taking small steps to dismantle and demolish the whole concept.
The effort is working.
Harrison said whiteness is on the retreat, noting estimates indicate whites will no longer be a majority in the United States by 2040 or 2050.But do poor whites have white privilege?
Harrison answered in the affirmative.
Most whites, even poor whites, he said, don t recognize they have white privilege because it s invisible.
It s like a club you belong to without asking to be part of it, Harrison said.Via: Daily Caller