A liberal from Massachusetts recently attended a Trump rally in the city of Lowell and decided to give us all an inside look into the circus that is The Donald Show by live tweeting the entire time he was there and it was brilliant.Daniel Danger wrote an article about his January 4, Trump experience on Storify, adding commentary about the rally in his tweets.
He started out by explaining that he is a left-leaning, small business owner who pays a lot of taxes, paid his college loans off, and is pretty ok with guns.
He is literally the kind of guy that the Republican Party is always blithering on about and saying they support (well, except the whole liberal thing).While at the rally, Danger started out his tweet-fest by describing some of the people he d encountered:9/11 truthers spotted.
Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016The volunteer who was scanning tickets was about 90 years old, half asleep, & the idea of scanning my phone screen made her literally angry.
Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016For some reason the guy in front of me is holding like a 5 year old issue of People magazine?
Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016A guy is wearing the bottom half of a 10 year old flip-phone around his neck with a length of yarn, he literally keeps shouting mother!
Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016 Trash King of Trump Rally.
pic.twitter.com/Wp8J3qJJ5g Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 5, 2016For Us By Us sweatsuit spotted pic.twitter.com/BhWrnWbjbT Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016That picture is so unbelievably perfect because that guy is wearing an African-American line of hip-hop clothing while applauding anti-black sentiments.
And then there was this guy .Man wearing a Trump plastic bag pic.twitter.com/NrSd7CpkZu Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016As someone who has been to a Trump event (I stayed outside even though I had tickets because I hate stupid people), I can tell you that his descriptions of the fans are spot on.
I cannot tell you how ashamed I was of our country when I saw them first hand.
It was the first time I d ever been surrounded by so many ignorant people.
For instance, this guy was at the event I went to:Image via FacebookDanger then took a photo of the arena that Trump bragged about filling to capacity.
The venue was about half full and he explained later in the evening that seats did fill out, but there were tons of empty spots.Make no mistake, this place is less than half full.
pic.twitter.com/osKDaTUtkG Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 4, 2016When Trump started speaking, the writer explained that he constantly flipped back and forth between topics.
He said the candidate did it so often that he couldn t follow him:He is literally changing subjects every two sentences, its impossible to follow.
Tom Brady to immigrants to rape to jeb bush in under 60 sec Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 5, 2016 An injured Tom Brady is better than anyone else.
-Trump, who is now talking about a kid getting shot in the face and a woman raped Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 5, 2016Poll numbers went to him talking about how he s gonna knock the hell out of ISIS, but now he s back to online polls.
Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 5, 2016I wish I could explain how incoherent the last 30 minutes were and how jarring and meaningless his outro was.
Total fucking nonsense.
Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 5, 2016 And he s done.
That was awful.
pic.twitter.com/AhyaiaHXzu Daniel Danger (@tinymediaempire) January 5, 2016To read about his entire experience, including his takeaway from the rally and the demographics of the crowd, go here, it s worth a read.Featured image via Twitter