You ve seen the tweets and Facebook comments from conservatives who prefer the Affordable Care Act Over Obamacare which are totally the same thing.
What conservatives really want is for President Obama s name to not be attached to his signature legislation.
Trump is discussing Insurance for everyone which sounds a lot like Single Payer, something we might have had except that conservatives kept yelling for the gubbermint to keep their socialist hands off their Medicare.
Whatever.
So, we ended up with a watered down version of health care.Late night host Jimmy Kimmel again used his Man on the street segment to interview (mock) those who do not know there is no difference between Obamacare and the ACA.
It s a straight-up partisan issue with supporters of the President who preferred Obamacare and Trump fans who preferred the Affordable Care Act.Kimmel wanted to see if people had learned anything since the time he did a similar segment three years ago.
We decided to ask this question again to see if Americans had learned everything over the last three years, Kimmel said.
And unfortunately, nothing has changed.A woman the interviewer approached said she doesn t support Obama so I don t support the Obama-things he s got going on.
So, you don t like anything Obama does and you prefer the Affordable Care Act?
he asked the woman.
She said, Absolutely.
One man said he supports the Affordable Care Act because his girlfriend is a Trump supporter.Another man said the difference between the two is that one you pay and the other Obama pays for you.
I believe with Obamacare the premiums are too high, so I believe in the Affordable Care Act, another man who was interviewed said.
So, the Affordable Care Act is more affordable than Obamacare?
the interviewer asked.
Correct, the man said.
Which is obvious because it s in the name.
The interviewer told one woman who admitted she doesn t like Obama, What if I told you Obamacare and the Affordable Care Act are the same thing?
She just stood there like a deer caught in the headlights.One guy was just too stoned to grasp the question.Watch:This is why we can t have nice things.Image via screen capture