You d think reporters would learn to ask questions on policy but they obviously still want to challenge Sarah Sanders with trash talk about President Trump.
April Ryan should know!
She s had many run-ins with Sanders that never end well for her.
The one below is no exception:Sure, April Ryan just happened to be chatting with Hillary Clinton yesterday April Ryan: I was talking to Hillary Clinton today about the president s past and she said, Look I worry about everything from his past because it tells you how he behaves in the present and the future.
What do you say to that as it relates to these allegations of the president?And then this from Sarah: I think Hillary Clinton probably should have dealt with some of her own issues before addressing this president.BOOM!ONE OF OUR PREVIOUS ZINGERS FROM SARAH SANDERS TO APRIL RYAN:Sarah Huckabee Sanders shut down White House reporter April Ryan during a press conference today.
She said that the San Juan mayor made zero comments when President Donald Trump opened the table for discussion during his visit to Puerto Rico.
The fake news claimed Trump didn t call on her to speak when in reality it was an open discussion that Mayor Cruz could have participated in.When Mayor Cruz joined Joy Reid on the The Rachel Maddow show Tuesday night.
She called Trump s actions during his visit terrible and abominable, and criticized the round table discussion as a PR 17-minute meeting.
Huckabee Sanders responded to Ryan s question by saying the visit was not controversial and was in fact widely praised, even by a Democrat Governor.
She argued the Mayor of San Juan was politicizing the visit rather than focusing on the relief efforts.
I think that it is sad that the Mayor of San Juan chose to make that a political statement instead of a time of focusing on the relief efforts.
The president invited her to be part of that conversation.
He specifically asked in the meeting where many were present, including a couple dozen other mayors who were very happy with the recovery effort, the governor, the congresswoman he opened the floor up for discussion and she actually made zero comments.
The press secretary then suggested the round table discussion was her time to weigh in and ask for what she needed for San Juan.
To me, that would have been the time and the place that she should have weighed in and asked for what she needed and laid out what she was asking for, for San Juan.
She didn t, Huckabee Sanders said.Huckabee Sanders concluded with a word of advice for the mayor.
Instead, she chose to wait until the president left, and then criticized him on TV.
Which I think is the wrong thing for her to do for her constituents, and I hope the next time she is given the opportunity to help her constituents, she ll take it, she said.