Make no mistake about it, the NFL needs to show their fans that their players are serious about playing football, or the owners are going to continue to face catastrophic financial losses.
The owners didn t hire Goodell to be their social justice director Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones led a conference call with 17 NFL owners on Thursday to discuss the possibility of halting commissioner Roger Goodell s pending contract extension.The owners on Thursday s conference call are unhappy with Goodell and the NFL s front office for a variety of reasons, including the player protests staged during the national anthem, issues regarding the relocation of teams to Los Angeles and the league s handling of the Ray Rice domestic violence case, sources told ESPN.
You don t get to have this many messes over the years like Roger has had and survive it, one owner said during the call.Sources have previously said that Jones has tried to stand in the way of any extension for Goodell.Last month, ESPN reported that Jones was impeding the progress of contract negotiations aimed at an extension for Goodell.
If not for Jerry, one owner said last month in regard to the contract negotiations, this deal would be done.
The tension between Jones and Goodell is in part credited to the commissioner giving Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott a six-game suspension, which is currently being disputed in court.Another factor in the frustration with Goodell is the controversy surrounding players kneeling during the national anthem.Goodell won t mandate the players stand while Jones is threatening Cowboys onto their feet.Earlier this month, Jones said that any of his players who disrespect the flag won t be allowed to play.
I know this, we cannot in the NFL in any way give the implication that we tolerate disrespecting the flag, Jones, also the team s general manager, said after a 35-31 loss to the Green Bay Packers on October 8.The previous week, Jones knelt along with head coach Jason Garrett and all their players in the middle of the field on September 26 in a show of unity before they all stood for the anthem before their 28-17 win over the Arizona Cardinals.
Spoke to Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys yesterday.
Jerry is a winner who knows how to get things done.
Players will stand for Country!
President Trump tweeted.On the other side of the debate, Goodell strongly backed the players and criticized Trump for an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL.
For entire story- Daily Mail