On Tuesday, Donald Trump announced the identity of his Supreme Court nominee, Neil Gorsuch.
At first glance, Trump s pick appears to be a typical, hardworking Aryan man who pledges to uphold the Constitution.
Unfortunately, he is not the man he pretends to be.The Denver Post notes that Gorsuch is best known for siding against reason and sanity in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores.
On top of that, he feels that anything related to Christianity including attempts to use the religion as a shield while a bigoted corporation denies women full access to their healthcare options is above secular courts.
It is not for secular courts to rewrite the religious complaint of a faithful adherent, or to decide whether a religious teaching about complicity imposes too much moral disapproval on those only indirectly assisting wrongful conduct, Gorsuch wrote in his opinion.
Ultimately, the then conservative-heavy Supreme Court ruled in favor of corporations right to deprive people to healthcare options if they slap a Bible verse next to their explanation of their decision.
Gorsuch also sided with a Catholic organization in another anti-Obamacare case.
Judge Gorsuch has a record of ruling in a way that does not reflect Colorado values on reproductive rights.
This is a pro-choice state that supports the constitutional right to abortion enshrined in Roe v. Wade and the right to privacy enshrined in Griswold v. Connecticut beliefs that are contradicted in Judge Gorsuch s ruling in Hobby Lobby and Little Sisters, Karen Middleton, executive director of NARAL Pro-Choice Colorado, said following Trump s announcement.
Colorado has a long, bipartisan history of supporting reproductive rights.
Judge Gorsuch does not reflect the will of our state or the constitutional rights of American women and we would oppose his nomination.
It s not just Colorado whose values Gorsuch doesn t reflect.
A full 89 percent of Americans say that birth control is morally acceptable, compared to 72 percent who say the same about divorce and 13 percent who are in favor of cloning human.
He and Trump may be in the minority, but nevertheless Gorsuch has taken his first step toward a lifetime position where he can continue to push his poisonous views and agenda.It might seem like an attractive idea to hope that Gorsuch will do his job well, but we cannot gamble with a lifetime position.
It is up to us as Americans to demand that our elected officials say no to this man, who clearly is unable to think rationally wherever moral issues are concerned.Featured Image via Getty Images/Alex wong