North Carolina Republican Governor Pat McCrory s bigotry is costing his state millions of dollars.
Since he signed into law a bill that effectively blocks any and all discrimination protections for LGBTQ people, musicians have cancelled concerts in the state, businesses like PayPal have pulled the plug on plans to settle there, and the NBA has moved its All-Star game away from the state for 2017 as well.
Now, the NCAA has delivered another blow, by relocating seven post-season games as well, which will cost the state millions.The NCAA released comments regarding the decision, saying that it is because of the cumulative actions taken by the state concerning civil rights protections.
G.P.
Bud Peterson, who chair s the NCAA s board of governors went on to say: This decision is consistent with the NCAA s long-standing core values of inclusion, student-athlete well-being and creating a culture of fairness.
Here are details regarding the cancellations, courtesy of Boston.com: the Division I women s soccer championship scheduled for Dec. 2 and 4 in Cary, just outside the capital city of Raleigh; the Division III men s and women s soccer championships set for Dec. 2 and 3 in Greensboro; the Division I women s golf regional championships set for May 8-10 in Greenville; the Division III men s and women s tennis championships set for May 22-27 in Cary; the Division I women s lacrosse championship set for May 26 and 28 in Cary; and the Division II baseball championship from May 27 to June 3 in Cary.In addition, two March men s basketball games set for Greensboro will be relocated as well.
Of course, the spokesperson for the North Carolina GOP had to weigh in with her ignorance.
Kami Mueller said: I wish the NCAA was this concerned about the women who were raped at Baylor.
This is unsurprising, considering that bigoted Republicans simply cannot understand that letting transgender people use the bathroom that corresponds with their gender presentation and identity has nothing to do with rape; in fact, it is trans people who are in the most danger regarding this law.McCrory s Democratic challenger, Roy Cooper, had more of the right idea here.
His spokesman, Ford Porter, said: It seems that almost every day, we learn of a new consequence of HB2.
We need to repeal this law and get our state back on track.
With the NCAA pulling out of North Carolina due to what they describe as a new policy that makes sure that the places they allow to host their events demonstrate how they will provide an environment that is safe, healthy and free of discrimination, that leaves that Atlantic Coast Conference.
However, HB2 might cost North Carolina that event as well.
The ACC says that there has been worry over the consequences of such a law within their ranks as well.Pat McCrory and North Carolina s bigoted Republican Party is literally killing their state s economy, all in the name of hate.
None of these people have any business holding public office, because they clearly do not care about the impact of their legislated hate.
Make no mistake, the NCAA is not the first, and nor will it be the last, organization that decides that they will not hold events or do business in a state whose hallmark is discrimination.Hopefully, North Carolina voters get rid of these idiots come November.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images