Many women have had enough of men in power telling them what they should or should not do with their bodies.
One would think that in 2016, it would be understood by presidential candidates that a woman simply has a right to her own body and the choices she makes are hers and hers alone.Not so with the current Republican clowns running for president.
For some irrational reason, all the candidates seem to believe that they have a right to tell women what to do with their bodies.
A group of women decided to get together and teach the candidates a lesson by posing the following question: What would it be like for men in power to get schooled on what they should or shouldn t do with their bodies?
The results in the video are effective as well as hilarious.The results in the video are effective as well as hilarious.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZdXZd7VZTnI]One woman speaks directly to the camera and says: Guys, Republicans, picture this: Once a month, lots of blood just comes out of you d**k hole and if you want to prevent it, you just shove a tampon in your d**k hole.
Now picture my trying to regulate your d**k hole.
Another woman on screen continues with some advice for Donald Trump.
She says: Take as many selfies as possible.
You ve got the duck lips that teen girls dream of.
And there were some suggestions for lowly Jeb Bush: You basically want women to wear a chastity belt.
We just want you to use your actual belt and wear your pants below your nipple line.
By subverting power and reversing it, these women teach these candidates an important lesson.
Although it s doubtful that someone like Donald Trump, who has said terrible and sexist things about women will heed the message and reverse course.
It s also doubtful that someone like Ben Carson, who believes that abortion should be outlawed, even in cases of rape and incest, will heed the message as well.
However, the hope is that Americans will be rational enough not to vote for a Republican for the presidency when the time comes.Featured image via video screenshot