The entire nation and world have been worried for months about what the reality of a Donald Trump presidency might be like, and now that we re finally here it s more terrifying than anything even the most fevered of hellish fantasies could come up with.
First, Trump insisted during his victory speech that he intended to be the president for all Americans, and then he turned right around and appointed a literal white supremacist to be his White House chief strategist.
As if that weren t bad enough, it is being reported that anti-Muslim conspiracy theorist Frank Gaffney will be named as a national security adviser.If you don t know who this guy is, let me clue you in.
Gaffney believes that President Obama is a Muslim born in Kenya, and regularly peddles this debunked nonsense on his radio show.
He also once suggested that the Obama Administration s Missile Defense Agency logo was proof that the president was trying to usher in Sharia Law.
As if that isn t enough, Gaffney also thinks that the Muslim Brotherhood is somehow roving around in the United States government.If there s any indication as to what sort of advice Gaffney might give, it s his post-election statement to the alt-right cesspool that is Breitbart News Daily, which is that we have to commit to stopping, designating, rolling up the Muslim Brotherhood in America as the terrorist organization it is.
He went on to say: It s going to be vital to everything else he s trying to do.
We ve got to stop taking counsel from them, direction from them, and allowing them to operate in our midst subversively, and that s what s been going on for some fifty years now.
The only possibly redeeming quality here is that Gaffney worked in the Pentagon for a short time when Reagan was president.
However, that was one hell of a long time ago, and he s been a right-wing radio host and leader of the conspiracy-minded think tank Center for Security Policy.
Essentially, he has done nothing but peddle in hate, lies, and nonsense ever since he left the Reagan Administration.
Further, the world is a much different and more complex place than it was when Reagan was in office, and any advice Gaffney might give would be completely obsolete in 2016.In other words, be afraid, America.
Be very afraid.
We have a literal clown car of incompetence about to be running our government, and there s nothing at all we can do about it.Featured image via Scott Eisen/Getty Images