Donald Trump is in deep sh*t because he refuses to apologize for sexist remarks he made about a Miss Universe contestant.During the presidential debate on Monday night, the Republican nominee took serious flack for fat-shaming Miss Universe contestant Alicia Machado just because she didn t conform to Trump s beauty standards for women.Hillary Clinton took Trump to task, informing him that Machado has a name and is going to vote in this election as are millions of other women across the country who also don t appreciate how he has treated women.On Tuesday, after Trump continued to insult Machado on Fox & Friends, the ladies of The View discussed his remarks and refusal to apologize, and even conservative panelist Jedediah Bila was disgusted by his behavior.
Now this guy doesn t know how to apologize it seems, because this happened a long time ago and everybody has a past and all of us have said things that maybe we sit and say I regret it, the Fox host began.
It s seems though he doesn t regret it, because the comment here, the only acceptable remark is, You know what?
That was a long time ago when I was a different man and I m sorry.
I m deeply sorry that I said those things.
But Trump didn t apologize just like he has never apologized for any of the offensive remarks he has made over the years.
He couldn t even apologize for his birtherism.
That shows character, there s a character flaw here, Bila declared before slamming Trump s supporters for blaming everyone around Trump instead of holding Trump responsible for his own personal words and actions.
And everybody wants to blame his handlers and say, Why isn t he being told, and I say, you know what, you re a grown man running for president, you re responsible for what you said, and you re responsible for owning up.
And I don t care who your handlers are grow up and say, I m sorry.
Joy Behar also summed up Trump s message.
The message is don t vote for me, she said.Here s the video via ABC.Donald Trump is not presidential material.
He has no courage and zero moral fiber.
He thinks he can say whatever he wants without consequence and while that may be the case on a reality show this is the political arena he is in now.
Women represent more than half of the electorate, which makes pissing them off a very bad idea if the GOP hopes to stave off extinction.
But his big mouth could have even more serious repercussions.If Trump pops off at the wrong time to the wrong people he could seriously affect our relations with other nations, especially nations with which we have serious tensions to work out.
Trump s big mouth could easily sabotage crucial diplomatic negotiations or piss someone off enough to break ties with us.
We need international cooperation now more than ever, especially if we hope to defeat ISIS.
Insulting countries we need will not help us.And since he can t even treat most people in this country with respect, how can we really expect him to actually respect other nations?Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images