Everyone involved with Donald Trump s campaign seems to have one job, and it s the same job: Explaining why whatever completely horrible thing Trump said or did, this time, is really totally okay.
Today, it s Eric Trump s turn to justify daddy s latest 3 a.m. temper tantrum on Twitter, in which he told voters to check out a former Miss Universe s non-existent sex tape.
Speaking to Fox News on Tuesday, Eric said that at least it proves his father doesn t sleep, even though this can admittedly be a downfall sometimes.
At least my father s up at 3 o clock in the morning, right?
Which, you know, is great.
Maybe that energy is sometimes a little bit of a downfall of his, but he s an amazing guy, and he ll be there to answer the call, you know, when things go bad.
And, you know, I think people appreciate that.
Not everyone sees Trump s lack of sleep as a virtue, though.
Some of The Donald s opponents say his late night Twitter rants are proof of just how unfit for office he is.
What kind of a man stays up all night to smear a woman with lies and conspiracy theories?
his rival Hillary Clinton asked last week.Vice President Joe Biden took aim at Trump s early morning tweetstorm on Monday during a rally in Orlando, Fl.
You don t have to be a psychologist or psychiatrist.
But what kind of leader awakens at 3 o clock in the morning and tweets Hillary helped disgusting Alicia M. become a U.S. citizen so she could use her in a debate ?
Or 3:30 in the morning.
This guy wants to be president of the United States of America?
Biden said.In Trump s Twitter rant, he claimed that Clinton had been duped by Alicia Machado, a former Miss Universe who had been fat-shamed by the GOP nominee and suggested that the Democratic nominee had helped her gain citizenship.Wow, Crooked Hillary was duped and used by my worst Miss U. Hillary floated her as an "angel" without checking her past, which is terrible!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Using Alicia M in the debate as a paragon of virtue just shows that Crooked Hillary suffers from BAD JUDGEMENT!
Hillary was set up by a con.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U.S. citizen so she could use her in the debate?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Trump then tried to defend himself by bragging that at least he was awake at such a ridiculous hour.For those few people knocking me for tweeting at three o'clock in the morning, at least you know I will be there, awake, to answer the call!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images