Vice Presidential candidate Tim Kaine has some explaining to do!
It sure looks like he sold his soul to the Clintons to run as Vice President.
He had a totally different view of Bill Clinton in 2002 and stated he thought Bill should have stepped down during the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal.
The lack of integrity and lack of respect for the office that Bill Clinton held should be enough for any Democrat to not want him anywhere near the White House again.
Clinton shook his finger as he looked in the camera and LIED to the American people about his disgusting affair with a White House intern.
Does anyone care to recall that this was a HUGE DEAL AND NOW HIS ENABLING WIFE IS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT!
This all seems so impossible but the press, globalists and Republican elitists are making it possible Do what you can to keep the Clinton Grifters out of the White House.
America deserves better!
TRUMP 2016!
How quickly Democrats forget!
Democratic vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine is pretty much part of the Clinton family at this point.
But in 2002, he said Bill Clinton should have stepped down in the wake of his affair with a White House intern.Bill Clinton should have resigned over the Monica Lewinsky scandal at least, that s a view Tim Kaine once held.Kaine s remark reported 14 years ago in the Richmond Times-Dispatch in the aftermath of a state-level sex scandal hasn t drawn any attention thus far in the 2016 presidential cycle.
But it suggests Hillary Clinton s running mate at one point harbored reservations about the integrity of the man poised to become the country s first first gentleman.Kaine commented on the Lewinsky scandal in 2002, when allegations of sexual harassment had rocked the Virginia House of Delegates.
The speaker of the house, Vance Wilkins, was a Republican power broker who had just helped his party flip the House and build its majority after Democrats had historically controlled the chamber.Just one problem: Earlier in 2001, Wilkins agreed to pay $100,000 in hush money to a former female employee at his construction company who said he sexually harassed her.The woman, Jennifer Thompson, alleged privately that Wilkins groped her and pinned her against office furniture.
She considered pressing charges, according to a Washington Post report that broke the news on June 7, 2002.
But she ultimately decided not to, accepting the $100,000 from Wilkins and signing a confidentiality agreement.
The Post cited sources familiar with the settlement in their report on it.
Wilkins held and still holds, as he stated in an interview with The Daily Beast that he didn t sexually harass Thompson, and that he only paid her to keep her allegations from becoming a scandal that would have undermined Republicans efforts to control the House.The Post s report caused an immediate firestorm, and top Republicans called for Wilkins to resign.
Jerry Kilgore, then the state s attorney general and top-ranking elected Republican, joined the chorus.So did Tim Kaine, who was the state s lieutenant governor at the time.
And according to the Richmond Times-Dispatch, he said he also believed Bill Clinton should have resigned from the presidency over his own sex scandals.Here s what the paper wrote, in a story published June 8, 2002: If the allegations are true, he should definitely resign, Kaine said, adding he held the same view about President Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal.
That is an intolerable way to treat women and it s not something that the state should be dragged through.
The Times-Dispatch story is behind a paywall in its archive.A report in The Washington Post, also published on June 8, 2002, characterized his views the same way:Lt. Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine (D), who may face [state Attorney General Jerry] Kilgore in the 2005 governor s race, likened the matter to the sexual scandal of President Bill Clinton and White House intern Monica S. Lewinsky, saying, If the allegations are true, he ought to resign.
Somebody in public life shouldn t behave that way toward women, Kaine said.
It s tawdry.
It s not the leadership that Virginia should have.
An AP story that ran on the same day also highlighted Kaine s criticism of Bill Clinton.
When I read it this morning, my reaction was the same I had when I read about the Clinton-Lewinsky affair: this is not appropriate conduct.
It s beneath the dignity of the office, he said.Amy Dudley, a spokesperson for Kaine, said the Virginia senator is focused on the future.
As the Associated Press reported at the time, Kaine characterized President Clinton s actions as not appropriate conduct, but he had previously been on record criticizing the impeachment effort, she said.
He believes this election is about Hillary Clinton s vision to make historic investments to create good paying jobs, make college debt free and build an economy that works for everyone, not re-litigating personal issues from the distant past.
Wilkins told The Daily Beast that he didn t recall Kaine making the comment, but that he didn t pay much attention to him anyway.
He saw a political opportunity to make a political hit and he took it, Wilkins added.
It doesn t surprise me at all.
Kaine wasn t the only Democrat disturbed by Bill Clinton s affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.
Clinton s world-famous lie I did not have sexual relations with that woman became one of the definitive lines of the 90s.
And their dalliances ultimately led to the House voting to impeach Clinton.
Five House Democrats including Virginian Virgil Goode, who later became a Republican voted for some of the articles of impeachment.
No Senate Democrats voted that Clinton was guilty.
Read more: Live Leak