Now that Trump is officially going to be the next President of the United States, his supporters are unapologetically displaying his hateful, divisive rhetoric in their everyday actions.
On Tuesday, a woman in Louisville, Kentucky showed everyone how to perfectly follow Trump s racist example when she unleashed a racist tirade on a pair of Hispanic women in JCPenney.Video footage of this incident was filmed by Renee Buckner, who witnessed the event and was completely disgusted.
She wrote: This Hispanic lady was purchasing items and the transaction was almost complete, then her friend brings up some shirts to be added to her purchase instead of getting in line.
And this lady went off!!!
In the video, a senior woman had mistakenly though that one of the Hispanic women had cut her in line, and she couldn t control her white privilege and racism.
Pointing to the end of the line, the older white woman said: It starts back there.
And it don t bother me if I say it and I don t care if everybody hears me.
I think everybody here probably feels the same damn way I do.
The Hispanic woman hadn t cut her at all she was merely adding to the other woman s purchase but the Trump supporter was already on a roll.
She said: Just go back wherever the f*ck you came from.
Turning to the cashier, the woman said: Hey!
Tell em to go back where they belong.
You know, they come here to live and they act like they re everybody else.
Get in the back of the line like everybody else does.
Then she directed her hatred right back to the Hispanic women as they tried to remain calm and ignore the blatant bigotry being directed at them.
The older woman continued to hurl abusive language at them: You re a nobody.
Just because you come from another country, it don t make you nobody!
Nobody, as far as I m concerned.
You re probably on welfare, the taxpayers probably paid for all that stuff.
Speak English, this is America!
If you don t know it, learn it.
What this woman did is disgusting and humiliating to anyone who was once proud to call themselves an American before Trump began unraveling the country.
You can watch this Trump supporter spread hate below:Featured image is a screenshot