Whole Foods is a store that many people love.
They love the organic food, the appearance of cleanliness and health, and the impeccable customer service.
However, lately, this popular chain has found itself under fire for creating and marketing products that are excessively expensive and completely unnecessary often at the expense of the environment due to the packaging, and at the expense of its customers budgets.Everyone remembers the absolute shitstorm caused by the asparagus water last year that the chain sold $6 a bottle for water with a couple of stalks of asparagus in it.
Apparently, that did not teach the folks at Whole Foods a lesson, because they have now just had a similar reaction to another ridiculously expensive product oranges that are already peeled, which are going for a whopping $6 a pound.Needless to say, the public has not taken kindly to this move, and many people have taken to Twitter to blast the chain.
Here are just a few choice critical tweets:Firstly, it was pointed out how environmentally irresponsible this is:If only nature would find a way to cover these oranges so we didn't need to waste so much plastic on them.
pic.twitter.com/00YECaHB4D Nathalie Gordon (@awlilnatty) March 3, 2016 @awlilnatty Fucking hell.
That makes me unbelievably angry actually.
Talk about necessarily contributing to plastic taking over the planet.
Swiftie Be (@StephanieBe) March 3, 2016Others pointed out how ironic the chain s antics are, given its name:@ajdomanico @awlilnatty the irony of this being Whole Foods too Mollie Goodfellow (@hansmollman) March 3, 2016Others made fun of the obviously lazy nature of the people who would purchase this:@ConorS @awlilnatty @MisterVivian next logical step: half eaten.
(@Jemppu) March 4, 2016It was pointed out that it could be ableist to assume that everyone can peel an orange; however, that point was quickly followed by the obvious fact that such people are not who Whole Foods is targeting.
In fact, due to the fact that most disabled people are not exactly well-to-do, they likely could never even afford to shop at Whole Foods, making that particular point moot:@otherbecky @awlilnatty You know, as well as i do, that that is NOT who that is marketed towards.
Also, the packaging is still superfluous.
Swiftie Be (@StephanieBe) March 4, 2016All of this and more is true here.
This is simply outrageous.
Shame on you, Whole Foods.
You market to organic food-eating, hippieish, health conscious liberals, and you expect us to put up with this, to not notice?
Well, for the second time in their price-gouging attempt, Whole Foods was forced to backtrack, calling the marketing and selling of these pre-peeled oranges a mistake.
@awlilnatty Definitely our mistake.
These have been pulled.
We hear you, and we will leave them in their natural packaging: the peel.
Whole Foods Market (@WholeFoods) March 3, 2016You re damn right it was a mistake.
Hopefully you people have learned your lesson this time.Featured image via Flickr