Denver Broncos Quarterback and two-time Super Bowl Champ Peyton Manning makes a great commercial.
His boyish looks and unassuming southern drawl combined with a squeaky clean image make him the perfect poster boy for just about any product.Aside from being a Papa John Schnatter loving, Jeb Bush supporting Republican who sends maximum donations to GOP campaigns regularly, Peyton Manning has what appears to be a polished past with nothing but daisies, rainbows and NFL records dotting it.
As with most Republicans, however, the illusion at some point comes crashing down.
As it turns out, the already-famous Manning was reportedly responsible for an assault of a sexual nature and subsequent cover-up that changed the course of a woman s career while he was in college at the University of Tennessee.The woman, Dr. Jamie Ann Naughright, wasn t a random female student who could be bullied into silence the way so many in the twisted world of men s college sports are.
She was a student volunteer on the training staff and a pioneer in a field where only men had previously prevailed.According to court records recently uncovered by The New York Daily News, a 74-page scandal was swept under the rug and a great woman was forced to leave a campus and a job she loved because Peyton Manning was a foolish and vulgar scumbag.
After months of abuse by the misogynist coaching staff, who joked that she must be a lesbian and called her c*nt bumper, Dr. Naughright s glass ceiling was raised to impossible heights by none other than number 18.The story begins with Manning suffering a typical football injury and Naughtright, whose name was Whited at the time, attending to him.
She said that Manning had first asked her personal questions, including if she hung out with people she worked with.
Then things got infinitely worse.After turning down his advances, Manning decided to drop trou while Dr. Naughright had her head down.
When she hears chuckles from the others in the room, she looked up to see Manning s privates in her face.
According to the court documents, Naughright said: It was the gluteus maximus, the rectum, the testicles and the area in between the testicles.
And all that was on my face when I pushed him up.
To get leverage, I took my head out to push him up and off.
Such blatant lewd behavior and disrespect for a woman who was trying to help him shows a different character than the one the NFL has sold its fans for nearly two decades.
Not only did Manning stick his privates in this woman s face, he and the coaching staff tried to blame the incident on a black player, according to documents, and went on to downplay it as mooning.
They went so far as to involve yet another player, who was supposedly the target of said mooning, who rebuffed the theory that Naughright accidentally placed her own face in the path of Manning s ass.
Yes, it really did get that ridiculous.
The other player rebuffed the claim, telling Manning in a letter that he should take responsibility for what he did.After the incident was reported, Manning was punished with the removal of his privilege to eat at the athletic facilities dining room, and requiring him to run at 6:00 a.m. for two weeks.
The dining room ban was then reduced to two weeks as well.
Dr. Naughright ended up being forced out of the University with a $300K settlement and a confidentiality agreement.
For her, the incident was over.For Manning, however, the incident needed to be put into his own context, most likely as a pre-emptive strike against the truth ever coming out.
In a book released by him and his father, Archie, Manning tells a completely different story of a woman he called vulgar.
While he admitted his behavior was inappropriate, he placed most of the blame on Dr. Naughright, claiming she had a foul mouth and that she yearned to be one of the guys.
In his book, Manning described his feelings towards women in the manly man s world of football: Never mind that women in the men s locker room is one of the most misbegotten concessions to equal rights ever made, Manning wrote.
When Dad played, there was still at least a tacit acknowledgment that women and men are two different sexes, with all that implies, and a certain amount of decorum had to be maintained.
Meaning when it came to training rooms and shower stalls, the opposite sex was not allowed.
Common sense tells you why.
Misogyny is what tells you why.
Peyton Manning s need to display his superiority over a woman who had halted his advances tells you why.At the time, Naughright was working at Florida Southern College and while she wasn t named, it became common knowledge that she was the trainer Manning was referring to in his book.
She ended up leaving the school and filing a defamation lawsuit against Manning, which is where the 74 pages of documents came from.USA Today picked the story up in 2003 but didn t release the documents they obtained that incriminated Manning.
Instead, they ran a piece about an unnamed woman who took a mooning incident the wrong way, clearing the way for Manning s squeaky clean image to move forward.Here we are, on what seems to be the waning days of manning s career, and lo and behold the truth comes out.
Consequences at this point for Manning will probably be non-existent, because even though what he did and how he treated this woman were disgusting, he has two Super Bowl Rings and the undying admiration of millions of fans.To those of us keeping score, Manning belongs in another club of players: The ones who got away with something horrible.
Featured image via biography.com