Rep. Steve King (R-IA) has been in the news constantly, and it hasn t been good.
His most recent stunt will certainly raise eyebrows and even make people wonder if he wants to be re-elected at all, because it is absolutely ridiculous and pathetic.While many Republicans were quick to blame the Republican baseball shooting, in which Rep. Steve Scalise and four others were injured, on Democrats and Liberals, King decided to take it a step further.
Reviving one of the most tired, played out traditions of the Republican Party, King blamed the shooting on former President Barack Obama.King made these comments in an interview with Simon Conway on WHO Iowa radio, where King actually had the nerve to accuse Obama of dividing the country during his presidency, therefore causing the shooting.
King s comments are seriously disgusting, and reflect a GOP that is clearly out of touch with reality and ignoring the fact that it nominated the most divisive presidential candidate to lead the country Donald Trump.
King said: I do want to put some of this at the feet of Barack Obama.
He contributed mightily to dividing us.
He focused on our differences rather than our things that unify us.
And this is some of the fruits of that labor.
Unfortunately, Conway was more than happy to join in on the Obama-bashing.
Conway said: Of course he also spent eight years telling us all how terrible we all are and what a garbage can America was and how unexceptional we all were.
I agree.
I absolutely agree with what you said.
The GOP has been blaming everything on Obama for the past several years, and the fact that we ve had a new president for months now hasn t stopped them.
King s comments are repulsive and incorrect, as he clearly cannot see the amount of division Trump has caused in just a few short months in the White House.
You can listen to King s interview below:In contrast, at least Republican Congressman Mark Sanford (R-SC) had the brains to recognize that Trump has fueled a toxic political environment, and should carry part of the blame for the baseball shooting.Featured image via Pool / Getty Images