It s about time the media started calling out Trump and his team for being the liars they are.The Trump campaign has been vigorously defending Melania Trump for plagiarizing parts of Michelle Obama s 2008 DNC speech for use in her own speech that she delivered on Monday.
It s clear that Melania plagiarized the current First Lady because all one has to do is compare the passages side by side, which the New York Times did.Ms.
Trump, Monday night: From a young age, my parents impressed on me the values that you work hard for what you want in life, that your word is your bond and you do what you say and keep your promise, that you treat people with respect.
They taught and showed me values and morals in their daily lives.
That is a lesson that I continue to pass along to our son.
And we need to pass those lessons on to the many generations to follow.
Because we want our children in this nation to know that the only limit to your achievements is the strength of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.
Mrs. Obama, in her 2008 speech: Barack and I were raised with so many of the same values: that you work hard for what you want in life; that your word is your bond and you do what you say you re going to do; that you treat people with dignity and respect, even if you don t know them, and even if you don t agree with them.
And Barack and I set out to build lives guided by these values, and pass them on to the next generation.
Because we want our children and all children in this nation to know that the only limit to the height of your achievements is the reach of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.
Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort has been especially defensive, even going so far as to blame Hillary Clinton for the plagiarism.But on Wednesday morning, even though it s clear that parts of the speech were plagiarized, Manafort was at it again on CNN denying that there was any plagiarism in the speech.
It s as plain as day to look at them side by side, Cuomo said of the plagiarism.
Can you acknowledge that and move on, he asked Manafort.Manafort responded by bragging about Melania s speech and how effective it was as Cuomo sighed in frustration that he had to sit there and listen to the bullshit coming out of Manafort s mouth again.
The controversy that you are talking about is not meaningful at all, Manafort continued.
He excused Mrs. Trump because she is not a political candidate and declared that his words are the final ones to be said on the issue.But Cuomo didn t let that slide.
He asked Manafort why he keeps ignoring the fact that parts of the speech were plagiarized but Manafort only repeated himself, bragged about Donald Trump, and insisted the media move on.Cuomo slammed Manafort and the Trump campaign of for not liking the fact that they got caught and blasted them for not just admitting the truth, especially since Trump is constantly accusing Hillary Clinton of being a liar.
There s a pattern of denying the obvious, Cuomo said.Manafort attacked the media in response and demanded that everyone move on from the controversy.
Again, Cuomo refused to back down and he let Manafort know it in strong words.
I can t move on because you keep lying about it!
I have to talk about what is true!
Here s the video via YouTube.If Donald Trump becomes president he will lie to the American people every day and so will anyone who works for him in his administration.
The government will have zero transparency and we will never really know what is going on.
The inability to even admit the obvious truth that parts of a speech were plagiarized is damning to Trump s campaign because it means he will not admit the truth when even worse things happen under his watch.As Joy Reid said on Monday night, if Michelle Obama had plagiarized her speech, conservatives would be crying foul and would never let it go as they are demanding the media do now for Melania Trump.Featured image via video screen capture