President Trump has started his presidency out in the worst possible way: His inauguration turnout was dismal; his most controversial executive action has been halted; his cabinet is facing confirmation troubles; his approval rating is at an historic low; and now, 40 percent of the American public supports impeaching him.A new poll released by Public Policy Polling shows that, while 4 in 10 support his impeachment, only 48 percent do not.
Twelve percent are (still) unsure at this point.That s not a lot of wiggle room.
That s actually close to evenly split.The most fascinating parts?
The 40 percent mark is up five points from where it was just a week ago.
Also, the poll found that 3 percent of Trump voters want to see him impeached.According the analysis:Usually a newly elected President is at the peak of their popularity and enjoying their honeymoon period after taking office right now.
But Donald Trump s making history once again with a sizable share of voters already wanting to impeach him, and a majority of voters wishing they could have Barack Obama back.The poll also found that the overall impressions of President Trump continue to remain negative, with 52 percent of the American public viewing him unfavorably, and 45 percent viewing him favorably.
These numbers are almost identical to a recently released poll from CNN, which show his disapproval rating at 53 percent.Rep.
Joaquin Castro, a Democrat from Texas and potential Senate candidate for 2018, told Buzzfeed that, should President Trump and his administration continue to defy the judge s ruling regarding the Muslim ban stay, House Democrats would be looking at possible impeachment.
Senator Dick Durbin echoed Castro s warnings.While Republicans wanted to impeach President Obama for supposedly being a Marxist Muslim, Democrats (and independents alike) want to impeach Trump for violating the Constitution and a federal judge s order.To think, in only two weeks, forty percent of the country is in favor of removing their president from office.
Perhaps Republicans should be taking notice.
After all, 2018 is right around the corner.
And history shows that the more unpopular a president is, the more his party suffers in the midterms.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images