Ivanka Trump s maternity leave plan hit a wall during an interview with Cosmopolitan when she was asked about her father s belief that pregnant women are an inconvenience.Republican nominee Donald Trump is clearly pandering to women by suddenly coming out in support of paid maternity leave in a desperate ploy to get women to vote for him.As it stands, over 70 percent of women view Trump unfavorably and Hillary Clinton would win the women s vote by an even wider margin than President Obama did in 2012.So, Trump is hoping that women will automatically switch their allegiance to him if he offers maternity leave to the country, something he hasn t even offered to his own female employees unless their name is Ivanka Trump.According to the Huffington Post:Employees at the Trump SoHo, New York and Miami hotels, as well as the Mar-a-Lago Club in Florida, all said that they do not offer workers paid maternity leave.
Instead, they said that the company complied with the Family and Medical Leave Act, a federal law that requires companies to give employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid time off for the adoption or birth of a child.That little hypocrisy combined with The Donald s past comments about women and pregnancy is exactly why Ivanka s interview with Cosmopolitan was so disastrous.Prachi Gupta asked Trump s daughter about a remark he made back in 2004 when he called pregnancy an inconvenience to business.
It s certainly an inconvenience for a business, he said.
And whether people want to say that or not, the fact is it is an inconvenience for a person that is running a business.
Donald Trump said that pregnancy is an inconvenient thing for a business, Gupta informed Ivanka.
It s surprising to see this policy from him today.
Can you talk a little bit about those comments, and perhaps what has changed?
Ivanka responded by accusing Gupta of being negative and then bragged about how her dad is a champion for women in the workplace.
So I think that you have a lot of negativity in these questions, and I think my father has put forth a very comprehensive and really revolutionary plan to deal with a lot of issues.
So I don t know how useful it is to spend too much time with you on this if you re going to make a comment like that.
My father obviously has a track record of decades of employing women at every level of his company, and supporting women, and supporting them in their professional capacity, and enabling them to thrive outside of the office and within.
To imply otherwise is an unfair characterization of his track record and his support of professional women.
So the policies at our company reflect that, and the diversity of our workforce, from a gender perspective, and in all perspectives, reflects that.
So my father has been a great advocate for the women in the workforce, and that s part of why he recognized that reform is so necessary.
Except that Trump doesn t even offer women paid maternity leave at his own hotels and resorts.
Instead they have to take unpaid leave and even to get that they have to use vacation and sick days.
In other words, in order for a new mother to get unpaid leave, she would have to sacrifice her paid vacation and sick days to get it.When pressed, Ivanka claimed ignorance of the comments.
Well, here s the video of Trump saying it via NBC.Ivanka then cut the interview short rather than stick around any longer to answer hard questions.Donald Trump does not care about women.
He is only pretending to because he wants their votes.
If he gets elected there is no way he would fight for paid maternity leave.
It would require him to give it to all of his female employees and he won t do that because it would mean having to give up money that could go towards buying himself a gold-plated toilet or another luxury jet.If he really cared about women he wouldn t have been treating them like shit over all these years and he wouldn t be treating them like shit now.
But Trump thinks women are stupid and that they ll support him just because he suddenly supports a policy that he has always opposed.Featured image via screen capture