The entire weekend, and now the beginning of the week, has had the news cycle spinning madly with news of the meeting Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort had with a shady Russian lawyer during the 2016 presidential campaign.
The plot has thickened as Trump Jr. s stories regarding the reasons for the meeting and the nature of the conversations that took place there kept changing.
Finally, things really exploded on Tuesday, when Lord Cheeto s mini me was forced to tweet out the actual emails that led to this meeting because if he hadn t the New York Times would have printed them for him.
Said emails show that Trump Jr. knew he was meeting Russians for the explicit purpose of possibly gathering information that would damage the Clinton campaign.As if all of that isn t looking grim enough for Trump s eldest tyke, it seems that the meeting may have been recorded.
Claude Taylor, who has worked on three Democratic presidential campaigns, tweeted out that potentially damning fact:A source with knowledge of the investigation tells me that IC had "ears on" Russian lawyer.
The meeting was recorded.
Donald, Jr is toast.
Claude Taylor (@TrueFactsStated) July 10, 2017Now, we all know that the Trumps routinely lie.
They prove that all the time.
Trump Jr. s story has changed radically over the course of the last few days alone.
That in and of itself really should warrant scrutiny from the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, as well as Special Counsel Robert Mueller.
In the meantime, Jared Kushner s security clearance needs to be revoked immediately, as he is a national security threat.As for Donald Trump Jr. if this meeting really was recorded, Claude Taylor s tweet is correct.
He s toast.
He has put out false statement after false statement, and something tells me he s still not telling everything the way it really went down.
It should only be a matter of time before the entire Trump criminal enterprise is in jail.Featured image via John Sommers II/Getty Images