The National Rifle Association tells us that all we need to ensure our safety is a good guy with a gun a responsible gun owner who carries his weapon around with him, ready to leap into action at the drop of a hat and save the day when a bad guy with a gun causes trouble.
Unfortunately, a good guy and bad guy with a gun look exactly the same until someone pulls out a weapon with nefarious intent.A Nevada man narrowly escaped an encounter with a good-guy-turned-bad-guy as he was riding his motorcycle with some friends along the highway.
A man in a red pickup truck in a lane flipped a man who told KTNV he wishes to remain unidentified the bird, prompting the biker to confront him at a stop light.
The man politely tapped on the window of the pickup truck in an effort to inquire as to what he did to enrage the men in the pickup truck.
Unfortunately, there was no chance of diplomacy.As the passenger rolls down the window, he wells the driver Get that goddamn gun out, motherf*cker.
The driver, of course, listens.
The driver immediately points the gun at the motorcyclist and demands, Get the f*ck away from me.
Asked why he flipped the motorcyclist off, the driver accuses a member of the group of wildly crossing through traffic something that is not visible on the video the motorcyclist uploaded to YouTube.
You re all about to f*cking get shot, the passenger yells.
Fortunately, no one was shot during the incident, and it is being investigated by the Henderson police.
The motorcyclist says he regrets approaching the vehicle: No matter how big and bad you are or how much weight you lift, there s always somebody that s bigger and badder than you are that will put you in your place real quick.
Unfortunately, in this situation, no one was bigger or badder.
He encountered a small man whose own feelings of inadequacy caused him to react with threats of violence rather than words a small man who happened to have a gun.Watch the incident unfold here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Upcvq_n03LY?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0&w=560&h=315]And a news report here:Featured image via screengrab