Chicago doesn t tend to be one of the cities one thinks of when one thinks of the religious right.
Unfortunately, they do exist here, and some of them decided to do something unspeakably disgusting and cruel for Halloween.
Calling themselves Christians, which they aren t, they put together a haunted house with 10 rooms one of which showed the mass shooting at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando.Pulse was a club frequented by the LGBTQ community, and there are many on the religious right who seem to think that the victims of that horror simply got what was coming to them.
The so-called Christians who put this atrocity together called it, THE ROOM: A JOURNEY TO HELL.
What s the implication there?
It s pretty clear.
In each of the 10 rooms were scenes in which people supposedly made choices that would send them to hell.
The inclusion of the Pulse shooting indicates that the group who put this together believes that the clubgoers who were brutally murdered that night went to hell due to their choice of living the homosexual lifestyle.
Ergo, getting murdered was what they deserved for willfully committing that sin.The haunted house was to happen at Fernwood Elementary School, which is part of Chicago Public Schools.
An elementary school is not an appropriate venue for anything like this, even though children under 13 were supposedly prohibited from going through it.
CPS very wisely decided not to allow the haunted house at all, according to the Windy City Times, and a spokesperson for CPS said: The event organizers mischaracterized the true content of the event, and we did not approve any association with the activities the organizers have now advertised.
The event will not be held on CPS property.
Because of course they did.The event organizers posted an ad on Facebook asking for volunteers for the event, and the event has now been banned there, too, as well it should be.
This is Christian extremism run amok, and there is no place for this kind of gruesome hatred in our society.Featured image by Gerardo Mora via Getty Images