Remember when Republicans wasted millions of dollars over two years investigating Benghazi?
Voters definitely remember.Republicans repeatedly and constantly used the Benghazi attacks of 2012 to persecute President Obama and Hillary Clinton.
The witch hunt surpassed the length of the 9/11 investigation, and the House Select Committee on Benghazi alone cost nearly $7 million of taxpayer money.Overall, ten committees were involved in those investigations, which means the amount spent by Congress is even higher, and they forced the State Department and Defense Department to spend and additional $16 million to defend themselves.In the end, Republicans found no evidence of wrongdoing by Hillary Clinton.In contrast, Republicans have been refusing to investigate Donald Trump s ties with Russia.
That scandal has continued to escalate ever since Mike Flynn resigned as National Security Adviser over his negotiations to ease sanctions with Russia prior to Trump taking office, and lying about it.Trump s dubious relationship with Russia goes back to the campaign, when he specifically asked Russian hackers to keep attacking Hillary.
Many in Trump s inner circle have connections to Russia, and Trump s campaign adopted policies favorable to Putin, including less support for NATO and dropping sanctions placed on Russia for invading Ukraine.
Because of Russian interference in our election process, Trump was installed in the White House as Putin s puppet, and our national security has been threatened ever since.But Republicans don t feel like investigating because they know Trump would be exposed.
So when Arkansas Rep. Steve Womack held a town hall on Tuesday, he ran into a buzzsaw as his constituents called out his hypocrisy.Womack told the crowd that Russia is an existential threat to America, and that he opposes the deals Trump is making with Putin.
But he got massively booed after he suggested Trump is only friendly with Russia because Democrats have been blocking his cabinet nominees.
At the end of the day, you and I agree that Russia is a threat, and I believe that once we get the president with his people assembled around him, he will better recognize that Russia is part of the problem, Womack said.When asked if he would support an investigation of Trump s ties with Russia, Womack refused and used the excuse that such investigations would reveal classified information.
You guys just want to investigate everybody, Womack said to more boos and jeers.It s even more insulting since Republicans literally tried to investigate every little thing that went wrong under President Obama.
You guys wasted a lot of money on Benghazi, waste a little on Trump, one constituent demanded.Afterwards, Womack referred to his constituents as an angry mob, and suggested they acted like children for demanding he do his damn job.
I m sorry to the community that it became somewhat one-sided and not necessarily a lynch mob, but at least an angry mob that was just not going to be happy with anything I said, and it took away from the ability for us to have what I believe we need to have, and that s a good, adult-level discussion.
Here s the video via YouTube.Republicans should be called out for not investigating Trump.
We are talking about our national security and the sanctity of our elections.
If they are going to put party and power above our country, they have no business serving in Congress.Featured image via screen capture