Chris Christie went ballistic on Ted Cruz Wednesday night following the Texas senator s failure to endorse Donald Trump during his speech at the Republican National Convention.
It was an awful, selfish speech by someone who tonight, through the words he said on that stage, showed everybody why he has richly earned the reputation that he has on Capitol Hill, Christie declared angrily.The New Jersey governor wasn t the only one who was less than pleased with Cruz and his refusal to endorse Trump, who has now officially secured the Republican nomination.
During Cruz s speech, the crowd chanted Endorse Trump, Endorse Trump!
and then erupted in a chorus of boos when that endorsement never came.
If you love our country and love your children as much as I know that you do, stand and speak and vote your conscience, Cruz said during his prime-time speech at the RNC on Wednesday night.
Vote for candidates up and down the ticket who you trust to defend our freedom and to be faithful to the Constitution.
Christie slammed Cruz for his dramatic words: I don t understand how someone can present themselves as a person of integrity and then come into this room tonight and give that cute speech.
And that was cute.
Speaking with CNN, Christie said spoke of the crowds reaction to Cruz s steadfast refusal to throw his support behind Trump.
The crowd was waiting for him to do the right thing, the governor said of Cruz.
I think the performance you saw there is why Ted has so richly deserved the reputation he s developed.
Cruz isn t the only former Republican presidential hopeful that has chosen not to endorse Trump, even though they signed the pledge saying they would support whoever ended up winning the nomination.
Jeb Bush, Carly Fiorina, and John Kasich have also refused to back The Donald.
But Christie pointed out that they are not in the room tonight.
The fact is: He came into this room today and then did not keep his word, the New Jersey governor said.Watch Christi s interview with CNN here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=giZGaFjxb8g]Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images