There s no doubt that two men seated near the front row at Camp Randall Stadium in Madison, Wis., are not Hillary Clinton supporters, nor do they support America s first black president.
One of the unidentified men wore a Barack Obama costume to Saturday s Nebraska vs. Wisconsin game which displayed a noose around the neck of the president.
The other man was pulling the rope around Obama s neck.I can t imagine what it must be like for people of color who have this experience this disgusting amount of hate everyday.
I feel sick pic.twitter.com/KmkxkWNcv3 ?
(@woahohkatie) October 29, 2016Here s that image again:Employees at the Wisconsin arena ask the football fan to remove the display.The fan also toted a sign critical of presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
Although the writing on the sign was difficult to decipher in the tweet, judging by the costume we re guessing it wasn t too kind.The situation was brought to the attention of university police on Twitter, but the fan was not removed from the game.
The university cited the fan s right to free speech.
The Wisconsin police answered tweets from those upset by the costume.
Each one said, While we don t support the offensive image of a noose, its a form of free speech.
Guest Svcs.
asked them to remove it, they did.
@mk_rodgers While we don t support the offensive image of a noose, its a form of free speech.
Guest Svcs.
asked them to remove it, they did.
UW-Madison Police (@UWMadisonPolice) October 30, 2016At some point, the men exited the arena, this time with one wearing a Donald Trump costume with a noose around Hillary Clinton s neck.It APPEARS the men were first asked to removed the Obama mask then asked to leave.
This was their exit pic.twitter.com/Xv1UxMOfaW ?
(@woahohkatie) October 30, 2016The University of Wisconsin released a statement:During the first half of this evening s Wisconsin football game against Nebraska, UW officials were made aware that an individual in the seating bowl had donned a highly insensitive and offensive costume.
UW Athletics guest services staff were dispatched to the individual s seating area where they asked him to remove the offensive components of the costume.
He complied.UW Athletics policy regarding admission into the stadium with a costume stipulates that no one may be wearing a mask upon entering the facility.
Once inside, it is permissible to wear a mask.
The costume, while repugnant AND COUNTER TO THE VALUES OF THE UNIVERSITY AND ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT, was an exercise of the individual s right to free speech.
The university also exercised its rights by asking the individual to remove the offensive parts of the costume.UW-Madison is dedicated to promoting a campus environment where all people feel valued, safe and able to thrive.
To that end, the university continues to encourage all of our community members to engage in discussion over vital issues in ways that promote greater understanding and respect for all persons.What s even more unnerving about the display would be the white people standing around the men seeing nothing wrong with their actions.
This was at a football game, not a political event, not that either is acceptable for this sort of behavior.Earlier this month, a man featured a float in a parade displaying Donald Trump executing Hillary Clinton.
The float displayed a Trump/Pence sign and a Make America Great Again sign, along with something to do with the Democratic presidential nominee s health.Trump supporters on Twitter are defending the football fans deplorable behavior, but just as the Indiana man questioned Hillary s health, we should question the mental health of Donald s supporters.Only Trump supporters would find this behavior acceptable while disparaging Colin Kaepernick for his form of silently protesting racial inequality.Image via Twitter.