Immediately following President Trump s inauguration, liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took to Twitter to invite America s refugees and illegal immigrants to Canada.
It was meant to be a jab at our new president after he promised to make it tougher for illegal aliens to cross our borders and for unvetted or poorly vetted refugees coming from terror hotbed nations to become guests of taxpaying Americans.It looks like Trudeau may have bitten off a little more than he could chew, as now he s forced to send troops to the northern US-Canada border in response to the overwhelming flow of asylum seekers into Canada.Canadian taxpayers will now be paying the price, as they ll be forced to house, feed, clothe, and provide free education to illegal aliens or asylum seekers coming from the US, who fear they won t be allowed to stay under the tougher guidelines the Trump administration is working to put in place.
Canadian citizens must surely feel less safe with this huge increase in illegal border crossings, many of whom don t have proper documentation from their nation of origin.Illegal refugees have been flooding the 49th parallel from all over America to ILLEGALLY cross into Canada.
According to Rebel Media s report, this is a well-organized effort with an American cab company and Greyhound as well as US and Canadian border agents working together to help loosely vetted illegal fake refugees cross the border from the US into Canada.Watch this incredible investigative report that was filmed by Rebel Media showing how the Canadian government has basically been complicit in a fake refugee human trafficking ring: Canada has now been forced to send soldiers in to help keep up with the flow of illegals and asylum seekers through their porous northern borders with the U.S.
But do they have any intention of sending any of them back to the US?
Miami Herald Canada has sent about 100 soldiers to a remote spot on the Quebec-New York border where asylum seekers are crossing illegally.The Canadian military said in a statement Wednesday that the soldiers will help the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Canada Border Services Agency at the site.They are preparing a place for tents that can hold almost 500 people.
They will also install lighting and heating equipment.The military says the soldiers won t play a role in security and won t be helping with law enforcement.The migrants fear the U.S. is becoming less welcoming and have decided to try their luck seeking asylum in Canada.
Officials estimate that 400 people crossed the border at the site on Sunday alone.Thousands of migrants are fleeing the United States for Canada via a remote back road in upstate New York.The Canadians arrest the migrants as soon as they step across the border.
But the migrants prefer to take a chance by seeking asylum in Canada rather than risk being deported from the United States.Canadian police have set up a reception center on their side of the border.
It includes tents where migrants are processed before they are turned over to the government agency that handles their applications for refuge.