If you re one of the people who saw Sarah Palin endorse Donald Trump for president and thought to yourself, oh, God, she s back with utter misery in your soul, you re most definitely not alone.
She was the poison pill for John McCain s career.
No, not just his presidential run in 2008, his career.
He will always be the guy who put Palin on the national stage to torture all the world.Trump, being the bombastic person that he is, and not caring what anyone really thinks of him (even though he s obsessed with polls) thought it wise to bring Palin back into the spotlight after her failed attempts at everything from being a governor to a reality star, and propped her up embracing her endorsement.
However, the endorsement isn t even half of his plans for her, and we, as a nation, should be f*cking mortified.Trump has now declared that there will be a role for Palin within his administration if he were to win the White House this upcoming November.
He doesn t think she d actually want a role, which may actually be true considering that would require actual work and follow through, but he said the door is open to the possibility.
He told NBC Today host Savannah Guthrie: She never made a deal, like so many people want to try and make deals.
I mean, she just said: I really like what s going on, it s an amazing thing, I ve never seen anything like it in politics.
Trump even insinuated that he may consider her as a potential vice presidential running-mate, saying: I haven t discussed it with her.
No, I haven t discussed anything with her about what she d do, but she s somebody I really like and I respect.
And certainly, she could play a position if she wanted to.
The real estate mogul also took the chance to rub in the fact that he got Palin s endorsement over other candidates when he said: It s such an honor, because as you know, very badly, so many people are so disappointed that she didn t support them.
Is it really, though?
I mean, come on, look what she did to McCain.However, to drive the point home that a Trump win in November equals Palin in his administration, he said: But certainly there d be a role in the administration if she wanted, and I m not sure that she does want that.
But there d certainly be a role.
If Trump being the orotund racist with no policy experience wasn t enough for you to vote against him this November, his saying Palin will have an open spot in his administration should be the icing on the cake.
It s more important now, than ever before, to make sure a Democrat wins the White House this fall.Would @RealDonaldTrump consider @SarahPalinUSA as a running mate?
Watch what he told @SavannahGuthrie: https://t.co/KADXx3KSQy TODAY (@TODAYshow) January 20, 2016Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr/flickr)