When iconic musical artist Prince died last month, the music world and anyone who cares about music suffered an unspeakable loss.
Well, most of the music world.
Kiss frontman Gene Simmons had some choice words on Prince s death, and they really only point to what a despicable human being Simmons is.
Bowie was the most tragic of all because it was real sickness.
All the other ones were a choice, Simmons said.
Drugs killed [Prince].
What do you think, he died from a cold?
I think Prince was heads, hands and feet above all the rest of them.
I thought he left [Michael] Jackson in the dust.
Prince was way beyond that.
But how pathetic that he killed himself.
Don t kid yourself, that s what he did.
Slowly, I ll grant you but that s what drugs and alcohol is: a slow death.
Source: Consequence of Soundattends Relativity Media s Movie 43 Los Angeles Premiere held at the TCL Chinese Theatre on January 23, 2013 in Hollywood, California.Before we tear apart Simmons, let s dissect his comments.
As Lorraine Berry of Raw Story noted, Prince did not die from drugs (the coroner s report has not yet come in the cause of death is still speculative), he died of chronic pain, which is epidemic in itself.
Prince had had double hip surgery.
Nearly everyone takes pain pills after major surgery like that.
It s the job of his doctor to monitor the pain and the drug use.As for drugs being a slow death, yes, they are, but so is eating too much, drinking too much, and sometimes, even exercising too much.
Everyone dies and many people, if not most people, had done things in the past that might have led to their deaths, so let s stop stigmatizing people who mistreat their bodies in what s considered the wrong way.
Besides, addiction is a disease.
Blaming the addict for becoming addicted to a drug his doctor told him to take is like blaming a dog when its owner doesn t teach him how to act.As for Simmons, well, he s a Trump supporter.
He loves that Trump says obnoxious things and that people don t care.
He doesn t want your money.
This guy funds his own campaign, and he is going to say things that tens of millions of people actually say quietly because politically it s incorrect.
Source: BreitbartHe claimed to have voted for Obama in 2008 (trolls say that also), but he is now ashamed.
In 2012, he backed Romney.
He also voted for George W. Bush, who tried to slowly kill our country.This was not the first time Simmons opined about drugs and even about depression.
I don t get along with anybody who s a drug addict and has a dark cloud over their head and sees themselves as a victim, Simmons said.
Drug addicts and alcoholics are always: The world is a harsh place.
My mother was in a concentration camp in Nazi Germany.
I don t want to hear f k all about the world as a harsh place.
She gets up every day, smells the roses and loves life.
And for a putz, 20-year-old kid to say, I m depressed, I live in Seattle.
F k you, then kill yourself.
He added: I never understand, because I always call them on their bluff.
I m the guy who says Jump!
when there s a guy on top of a building who says, That s it, I can t take it anymore, I m going to jump.
Are you kidding?
Why are you announcing it?
Shut the f k up, have some dignity and jump!
You ve got the crowd.
Source: Radio.comYep, he s an ass.Featured image of Prince by John Sciulli with Getty Images.
Featured image of Gene Simmons by Alberto Rodriguez at Getty Images.