When multi-millionaire San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick decided to take a stand against an oppressive America, some very patriotic Americans hit back.Prior to the 49er s pre-season game against WI Green Bay Packers, multi-millionaire quarterback Colin Kaeprernick, who was raised by White parents made the decision to sit out the national anthem as a form of protest: I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, Kaepernick told NFL Media in an exclusive interview after the game.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
Kaepernick s decision didn t sit well with many Americans, but this Gold-Star Mom Teri Maxwell Johnson, who lost her son in Afghanistan isn t just going to sit by idly without letting this whiny, oppressed anti-American know how she feels.From Gold Star Mom Teri Maxwell Johnson: My heart is exploding, my lungs are without air, my blood is boiling, my body is shaking, and tears are running down my face.
Colin Kaepernick of the San Francisco 49ers is refusing to stand for the national anthem.
His comment stated he would not stand and show pride in a flag that represents an oppressive nation while there are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder .Mr.
Kaepernick, I am sitting in my livingroom looking outside at my American Flag flying at half staff.
You see, my son s body lay in a street after an IED blew up the vehicle he was fighting in.
His blood stains the sands of Afghanistan.
He died protecting the ideals of the flag you refuse to respect.
He died so that ungrateful, privileged, arrogant men like you can be just that ungrateful, privileged, and arrogant.There are brave men and women all around that stand between evil and you.
Men and women willing to die to protect you because they believe in the ideals this country was founded on.
Men and women of all races and all religions.
Ask them, sir, about pride in the American Flag.
Ask them how their heart feels when they hear the National Anthem being sung.
You are a public figure, someone young people look to as an example.Shame on you.
Shame on you for your disrepect towards those who are true examples of honesty, integrity, pride, and leadership.
Shame on you for disrespecting my son and his life.
His sacrifice.**Sgt.
Joseph Johnson my soldier, my son, my hero**Gold Star Mom Terri Maxwell-Johnson told Jake Tapper (below) how she feels about Kaepernick s disrespect for our flag after he tweeted out her letter last night:Whatever you may think about Colin Kaepernick's decision, here's how it impacted one Gold Star Mom.
pic.twitter.com/3uaUxNsFoM Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) August 28, 2016Here is her interview: