Well, well, well Elizabeth Warren went on a Twitter rant about what a capitalist pig Donald Trump is and now it turns out she also took advantage of the crash by flipping houses!
This is awesome!
She s being exposed as a huge hypocrite!Before the crash that she blamed on speculators, Senator Elizabeth Warren made a bundle by flipping houses.Nearly two years after Veo Vessels died, her daughter, 70-year-old Mary Frances Hickman, decided to sell the home her mother had left to her.
A sprawling brick house in Oklahoma City s historic Highland Park neighborhood, it was built in 1924, just a year after Mary s birth.Decades later, one of Vessels great-grandchildren fondly recalls the wood and tile floors, the fish pond, the butler s quarters, and the multi-car garage where children played house.
It was really, really nice, says Hickman s granddaughter, Andrea Martin.
That s part of the reason she s so surprised her grandmother sold the home in 1993 for a mere $30,000.
Despite a debilitating stroke, Martin says Hickman remained sharp, and she had always been business-savvy.
As an Avon saleswoman, she had at times ranked among the top ten in the country.
So I don t know why, Martin says.
Maybe she just wanted out from underneath it, but to sell it for such a low number I don t know.
Maybe she got bad advice, maybe she was just tired.
The home s new owner: Elizabeth Warren, today a Massachusetts senator who has built a political career on denouncing the sort of banking titans and financial sophisticates who make a buck off the little guy.
Five months after purchasing Veo Vessels old home, Warren flipped the property, selling it for $115,000 more than she d paid, according to Oklahoma County Property Assessor records.Warren rose to political prominence in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis as a crusader against big banks and a dispenser of common-sense economic advice.
She campaigned for the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, intended to shield people from the predations of the mortgage and credit-card industries, among others.
In her 2006 book All Your Worth, co-authored with her daughter, Amelia, Warren lists as a top myth the idea that you can make big money buying houses and flipping them quickly.
She has made a career out of telling people how to behave in financially responsible ways, and out of creating laws that will make it illegal for them to do otherwise.Five months after purchasing Veo Vessels old home, Warren flipped the property, selling it for $115,000 more than she d paid.
But Warren bought and sold at least five properties for profit at a different time in her life, before the cratering economy and a political career made her a star.
Her life story has been the subject of much interest, and her 2014 memoir, A Fighting Chance, chronicled her rise from humble beginnings in small-town Oklahoma and her struggle to make ends meet.
It didn t much mention, though, the early 1990s, years when her children were teenagers and she was once again happily married.
These are years when she wasn t yet the multimillionaire she is today, and, she has said, she was voting Republican.Read more: National Review