Donald Trump has suggested that women should face some sort of punishment for having an abortion.
Ted Cruz just admitted that he wants to punish women for being raped.During an interview with Fox host Megyn Kelly, Cruz made it clear that he believes rape victims should be barred from terminating any pregnancy that results from the crime.Women think you may be too far right on social issues, Kelly told Cruz while pointing out that the GOP presidential wannabe s stance on abortion rights is repelling female voters away from a Republican Party that needs votes from women if it hopes to survive in November.But Ted Cruz refused to budge from his extremist views and openly stated that he believes rape victims should be forced to carry pregnancies that result from rape to term.
Rape is a horrific crime against the humanity of a person.
But at the same time, as horrible as the crime is, I don t believe it s the child s fault.
We want to do every thing we can do to prevent the crime on the front end and to punish the criminal.
But I don t believe it makes sense to blame the child.
Kelly fired back by informing Cruz that women think he would be forcing the mother to go through unspeakable trauma to carry her rapist s baby for nine months.
On that point, Kelly is correct.
Forcing a woman to endure nine grueling months of a pregnancy she did not want only helps the rapist torture his victim more, it rewards the rapist with a child.
And in far too many states, a rapist can then sue for parental rights and would be able to harass the victim for the next 18 years of the child s life.Cruz, however, avoided replying to Kelly like the coward he is and dubiously claimed that the decision would be left to the states if Roe v. Wade were to ever be overturned.
Here it would be a question for Wisconsin, what should the laws be governing abortion.
If Roe v. Wade was not the law, it would be up to the people of Wisconsin and the people of Wisconsin might decide to allow some exceptions or not allow some exceptions because everyone agrees that you always want to protect the life of the mother.
Here s the video:Ted Cruz is literally pretending that he would allow each state to have their own abortion laws.
In December, Cruz stated his intention to ban abortion nationwide despite what the Supreme Court has ruled.Furthermore, Cruz has also voiced support for a federal ban on abortion after 20 weeks that provided zero exceptions for rape victims.
He also supported the Life at Conception Act, which would ban all abortion for any reason and would even outlaw some forms of contraception.In short, Cruz is lying through his teeth when he claims that the states will be able to make their own abortion laws.
As president, Cruz would absolutely sign a total ban on abortion if Republicans manage to hold onto the Senate and House after the election in November.
In fact, it would probably be one of the first things he does.
And that means women absolutely should not trust Ted Cruz.
Featured image via screencapture