THESE HOLIER THAN THOU PEOPLE ARE SICKENING!
Since when does someone pretty much get fired for saying nothing wrong AT ALL?
Bill Bush will never darken the door of The Today Show because of NOTHING!
This entire situation is so out of control it s sickening!
Billy Bush has been suspended from the Today show pending further review of the matter, NBC News said Sunday night.It is unclear if he will ever return to the broadcast.
He will never be on the show again, an on-air source said, reflecting what staffers are saying behind the scenes.The sudden change came amid a chorus of calls for disciplinary action against Bush over his vulgar 2005 conversation with Donald Trump that was caught on tape and revealed on Friday.NBC sources initially said Bush was not being disciplined and that he would be in his usual spot as co-host of the Today show s 9 a.m. hour on Monday morning.As late as Sunday morning, one of the sources was saying that Bush would use Monday s broadcast to reiterate the apology he made Friday.But on Sunday afternoon, senior NBC executives made the decision to bench Bush on Monday, effectively reprimanding him.A couple of hours later, the executive in charge of Today, Noah Oppenheim, said in an internal memo that the executives had decided to go even further and suspend Bush.
I know we ve all been deeply troubled by the revelations of the past 48 hours, Oppenheim wrote.
Let me be clear there is simply no excuse for Billy s language and behavior on that tape, he wrote.
NBC has decided to suspend Billy, pending further review of this matter.
Before the memo was released, the on-air source said staffers were in the dark, stuck refreshing Twitter to find out what was going on with Bush.The suspension was a stunning turn of events.
The Today show recently made a multi-million-dollar bet on Bush, relocating him from Los Angeles to New York and making him a co-host.But the taped 2005 conversation between Bush and Trump has upended the careers of both men.Read more: wisn