Donald Trump has not even taken office yet and he has already pissed off the most populous nation on the planet.For nearly 40 years, the United States and made it policy that the American president does not contact the leader of Taiwan for the sake of stable relations with China.But Donald Trump violated that policy on Friday by talking to Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen.China does not recognize Taiwan as an independent nation and considers the island its territory.
This goes all the way back to 1949 when Chiang Kai-shek evacuated his Nationalist forces to Taiwan after being defeated by Communist forces in the Chinese Civil War.China has refused to recognize Taiwan ever since and considers it a renegade territory.Trump claims that the phone call was merely congratulatory and that both sides expressed that close economic, political and security ties exist between Taiwan and the United States.
But if you believe that, I have a golden tower to sell you.
Most likely, Trump is getting cozy with Taiwan because his company wants to build luxury hotels and resorts on the island, which is yet another conflict of interest Trump has refused to deal with and is more proof that Trump only wants to use the presidency for his own selfish financial gain.Trump s action has been criticized by diplomats and state department personnel.
And his recklessness has now drawn an angry response from the Chinese government.In a statement, the Chinese foreign ministry lodged a formal protest and warned Trump to beware of risking relations between our two nations again.
It must be pointed out that there is only one China in the world, Chinese officials said.
We urge the relevant side in the US to adhere to the one China policy, abide by the pledges in the three joint China-US communiques, and handle issues related to Taiwan carefully and properly to avoid causing unnecessary interference to the overall China-U.S. relationship.
Again, Trump has not even taken office yet and he is already screwing up decades worth of established foreign policy, proving once again that he is too irresponsible to be president.China is a major holder of U.S. foreign debt and is a major manufacturer of products sold by American businesses.
So pissing the Chinese off could not only lead to a war, it could substantially cripple our economy.Donald Trump serious needs to read the relevant intelligence and foreign policy briefings so he doesn t do anything stupid like this again.Featured Image: Drew Angerer/Getty Images