On February 25th, Fox News Business brought on the President and Founder of the Human Rights Foundation, Thor Halvorssen, to discuss Democratic Socialism.Fox News clear intention was to provide supportive evidence to the pejorative narrative that Bernie Sanders is a socialist, and that socialism is similar to communism, in order to scare naive viewers into not supporting Bernie Sanders.
Senator Sanders wants America to be a socialist country and even liberals are blasting his agenda, said host of Fox Business Network s Intelligence Report, Trish Regan, in her introduction of Halvorssen.Halvorssen begins by discussing some of the various definitions of socialism, describing the academic socialism as nearly synonymous with communism, and the differences between countries with socialist governments, like Sweden and Denmark, and socialist authoritarian governments, like Venezuela.Then Thor Halvorssen drops a bomb on Fox News.
I actually made the largest contribution allowable to the campaign of Bernie Sanders, he said.
Halvorssen then cited the millions of dollars in donations Hillary Clinton received from countries who notoriously violate human rights, such as Saudi Arabia, Oman, Algeria, Bahrain, and Qatar.
Before getting cut off by Ragan, Halvorssen slammed Trump for his embrace of Russia s dictator-like President, Vladimir Putin.
I d rather have a democratic socialist than a supporter of dictators in the White House, Halvorssen concluded.Halvorssen s interview helped dispel some myths surrounding Bernie Sanders candidacy.
Sanders biggest obstacle to the White House, then, is the lack of public understanding of what democratic socialist means.
You can be sure that the big-money forces he attacks will do their best to sow confusion over that term, especially by only using the word ;socialist,' wrote Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, David Cay Johnston, in a recent article for the New York Daily News.
If Sanders wins the Democratic Party nomination, we can expect all sorts of television commercials wrongly describing him, as Trump has done, as a communist.It s unlikely we will ever get to test that proposition; Hillary Clinton remains the heavy favorite in the primary, for a host of reasons.
But what we do know for sure is that our current elected federal leaders are not pursuing the economic policies that most Americans, including most Republicans, favor.
And those are the policies of the Sanders campaign.
Halvorssen later tweeted in celebration his successful trolling of Fox News.#FoxNews probably expected me to condemn @BernieSanders.
I reveal largest contribution allowable https://t.co/4JxW3Lh7nM #FeelTheBern Thor Halvorssen (@ThorHalvorssen) March 2, 2016 Featured image Courtesy of Addicting Info