It s becoming increasingly apparent that Donald Trump is a man who hates his job.WASHINGTON, DC MARCH 31: U.S. President Donald Trump looks on during a meeting with the National Association of Manufacturers in the Roosevelt Room of the White House March 31, 2017 in Washington, DC.
President Trump signed two executive orders today that aim to boost U.S. manufacturing by addressing foreign trade.
(Photo by Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images)WASHINGTON, DC MARCH 29: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks during an event celebrating Women s History Month, in the East Room at the White House March 29, 2017 in Washington, DC.
(Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)Why would he?
He s getting it from all sides.
There s the terrible health care bill that went down in flames, and it was the right who brought the gasoline.
Then there s this Russian scandal, which isn t going away any time soon.
Now, the rumors are that Trump is thinking of quitting, and the rumors aren t being started by just anyone.
They are being started by Claude Taylor, a part of three presidential campaigns and a member of the Clinton White House.An ind journalist I have worked with-who has been reliable-says they have 2 sources that say Trump is considering options-incl resignation.
Claude Taylor (@TrueFactsStated) March 31, 2017A member of the White House press corps tweeted this:Former chairman of RNC Steele told WWR at lunch that Trump will not finish his term; advises clients to bolster ties w/VP Pence West Wing Reports (@WestWingReport) March 31, 2017Yes, these are rumors, and are no way to be treated as fact, at least not yet, but it does highlight that Trump is facing a pivotal moment in his life.
One of the most graceful ways for him to exit the scandals surrounding him might be to resign, but it s possible that that s been the plan all along.
There s no way in hell Mike Pence has the charisma necessary to win the White House, especially in our very shallow times, but the Christian Right loves him, and what better way is there for them to get the president they want?Featured image via Pool/Getty Images