He s a controversial, conservative artist and he s coming after the Left.
He s an outspoken, brave, modern-day Patriot, and he s not afraid to venture where conservatives have never gone.
Sabo (his pseudonym) has shocked many liberals, and conservatives alike with his edgy artwork.
It would be an understatement to say that he is constantly pushing the envelope.
Whether you agree or disagree with him, conservatives should be thanking Sabo for utilizing his 1st Amendment Right, as he takes the fight against the Left to the streets of cities across America.If you want to help Sabo to create more of these important anti-Left messages leading up to the next election and beyond, please consider donating to him HERE.
He s working to get an important message out to Americans, and more specifically to the younger voter.
The only thing that pays for his supplies and his bill are donations from his supporters.
Please consider helping him out.
Here is his website: unsavoryagents.com and his STOREHere is an example of Sabo s most recent work: Here is one of our personal favorites: Hillary s baggage When Democrat candidates come to town for a fundraiser, Sabo tries to have a surprise message waiting for them, like this great piece waiting for Hillary in Greenwich, CT: Here s a great welcome sign waiting for Hillary on the way to one of her fundraisers (courtesy of Sabo): And then there were the special mile markers created just for the Los Angeles Marathon: The Obama Drone signs are some of our personal favorites.
If Americans were smart, they d forgo a few hours of entertainment and stop funding these Hollywood freaks who support the destruction of our nation: He s not afraid to call out race baiters like Al Sharpton: And cry-baby college students looking for safe spaces are not immune to his counter-message.
This poster mocks the #BlackLivesMatter (Anti-White) movement, and was plastered across the street from a college fraternity house: Sabo used this great illustration to point out the entitlement mentality of the Clinton Crime Syndicate who believes the throne (our White House) rightfully belongs to Hillary: Sabo makes no secret of his support for Ted Cruz.
He has been a loyal supporter for years.
This piece of art he created illustrates the kick ass, take-no-prisoners style of Ted Cruz that both the GOP and Left despise: Here is an interview with Glenn Beck that explains what motivates Sabo, and why he chose to use street art to get a conservative message out to Americans:Is it any wonder when Sabo saw this message from Obama s Secret Service hanging on his door, he wasn t too surprised?
Sabo called the agent listed on the door hanger and scheduled a meeting at his home for 10 a.m. on Wednesday.
Before the interview, Sabo posted the above image and alerted his Facebook friends and Twitter followers about the pending visit.
Shortly after the Secret Service visit, Sabo posted a video that claims to cover most of the entire interview.
Sabo told TheBlaze there was a little more to it, but I just wanted to get it out.
You can watch the video of the visit here: (Warning: The video has some objectionable images and the dialogue contains profanity)Here is one of the tweets that supposedly brought the Secret Service to Sabo s door:A MESSAGE TO THE SECRET SERVICE.
I HAVE $10,000 IN HAND WHICH I WILL USE BUY A MONTH OF COLUMBIAN HOOKERS FOR YOU TO LOOK THE OTHER WAY.
unsavoryagents (@unsavoryagents) September 29, 2014Here is a video showing how Sabo creates his street art:// <!
[CDATA[ (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); // ]]>THE BITCH IS BACKPosted by Unsavoryagents on Sunday, October 23, 2011From Sabo s Website unsavoryagents.com : Bush the Younger was elected President and the claws came out in Hollywood.
I lost my friends along with a great deal of peace.
It was not a good time to be a Republican in Hollywood.
There was no place I could go where I wasn t punched in the face by some sort of art defining who I was for being a Republican.
Evil, Bigotted, Homophobic, Out of Touch, Rich, Greedy, on and on.
And then I snapped.
Why was the Left allowed to define me and where are the dissenting voices from the Right setting the record straight?
Creatively speaking, no one.
I believe the Right has a great message, sadly the only people telling it are those on the Left and they do a damn fine job making us look like ass holes and what do Republicans do about it, NOT A DAMN THING!!!
Fuck it!
I guess it s just going to have to be me, I thought.
My aim as an artist is to be as dirty, ground level, and mean as any Liberal artist out there, more so if I can.
Use their tactics, their methods, appeal to their audience, the young, urban , street urchins with a message they never hear in a style they own.
My name is SABO, I m an UNSAVORYAGENT.