Will Trump s AG Jeff Sessions allow Crooked Hillary and friends to walk from their alleged involvement in the dossier that turned into a full-fledged witch hunt for President Trump, his associates, and his family?
It s hard to imagine watching Hillary walking away from this one Hillary Clinton and the Democratic National Committee paid opposition research firm Fusion GPS to compile the Russian dossier that triggered an FBI investigation into possible collusion between Donald Trump s presidential campaign and the Russian government, according to a report Tuesday by the Washington Post.Clinton Corruption- WaPo reports DNC & Clinton paid for debunked Trump Dossier.
Russia collusion was with Dems in 2016 election.
#MAGA #DTS pic.twitter.com/4OnuUx01lB Lou Dobbs (@LouDobbs) October 25, 2017A Republican had contracted first with Fusion GPS, and Clinton and the DNC continued to fund Fusion GPS s work, the report says.According to the Post:Mark Elias, a lawyer representing the Clinton campaign and the DNC, retained Fusion GPS, a Washington firm, to conduct the research.After that, Fusion GPS hired dossier author Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer with ties to the FBI and the U.S. intelligence community Before that agreement, Fusion GPS s research into Trump was funded by a still unknown Republican client during the GOP primary.So, who is that still unknown Republican ?
Could it be Senator John McCain, the petty and spiteful sworn emeny of Donald Trump?
What about his admission in January 2017, that he was the one who passed along the dossier of claims of a Russian blackmail plot against the president-elect?
McCain called it doing what any citizen should do .McCain a longstanding anti-Trump Republican who had disassociated himself from the candidate s campaign weeks before the election cast himself as an innocent and concerned member of the public as he justified his move.He claimed he had no idea whether it was accurate or not but that he believed the FBI should have it because it was sensitive .
I did what any citizen should do.
I received sensitive information and handed it to the FBI, he told CNN the network which broke the story that the document existed.
It was then published in full by Buzzfeed.
The Arizona senator issued a public statement amid mounting questions of his exact role in the affair and how a document riddled with errors and unverifiable claims came to be published.
Late last year, I received sensitive information that has since been made public, he said.
Upon examination of the contents, and unable to make a judgment about their accuracy, I delivered the information to the Director of the FBI.
That has been the extent of my contact with the FBI or any other government agency regarding this issue.
But the 2008 Republican loser, who disowned his party s candidate weeks before the election, may have been far more intimately involved than that.
Daily MailThe Clinton campaign and the DNC, through the law firm, continued to fund Fusion GPS s research through the end of October 2016, days before Election Day.The Russian dossier, whose contents Trump has denied and which has been widely discredited, is believed to have led the FBI to investigate the Trump campaign and several Trump associates.Until now, Fusion GPS has continued to refuse to cooperate with congressional panels investigating Russian attempts to intervene in the election, and how the Obama administration probed those efforts.
Democrats have also protected the company.The revelation that the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee were involved in procuring the salacious accusations against Trump that fed their own later accusations of Russian interference in the election lends credence to those who, like Trump himself, have regarded the Russia accusations as conspiracy theories.
Breitbart