One of the greatest institutions in America right now is the Satanic Temple.
Their mission is simple: Mock, troll and thwart conservative Christian encroachment into our lives.
To this end, the Detroit chapter of the church took to the streets of Ferndale and Detroit dressed unconventionally to expose the creepy obsession the pro-life movement has with fetuses:According to the Temple s Detroit chapter leader, Jex Blackmore, the anti-choice movement s obsession with, and mischaracterization of the fetus obscures medical reality and a woman s constitutional right to choice.
The group dressed in baby masks and diapers, replete with BDSM gear, bottles and baby powder.Watch the really funny but reeeealllly creepy videos: Sooooooooo yeah.
That actually happened.
BDSM babies being flogged for their sins?
I dunno.
But the leader of the group, Jex Blackmore, refers to the attacks on Planned Parenthood as fetal idolatry which might possibly be the best description I ve ever heard.
The fact is, the (mostly) conservative Christian fight against abortion is centered around protecting the fetus until the second it s out of the womb.
Then the little moocher and its taker mother are on their own.
Don t come asking for food, clothes, healthcare, schooling or anything else!
The pro-life movement doesn t have time for any of that!
They re on a mission from god to save babies from abortion!Worship the fetus, ignore the baby.
If that s not fetal idolatry, I don t know what is.
Here s how Blackmore describes it:The Satanic Temple (TST) believes that the anti-choice movement s obsession with, and mischaracterization of the fetus obscures medical reality and a woman s constitutional right to choice.
Enlarged images of fetuses which are no larger than an inch and the personalization of mindless, senseless human embryos elevates the fetus to the status of a demigod.
The strategy of elevating tiny human em br yos and fetuses to a rever ence creates a fantasy in which the maternal body is both erased and criminalized.All I have to say to that is, Hail Satan!
Featured image via screencap.