Something that Donald Trump needs to realize is that his words are now heard not only all over the nation, but around the world.
He s currently the presidential nominee for the Republican Party, and the things that come out of his mouth need to be taken very, very seriously.So, when Trump decided he would say Second Amendment people should take out Hillary Clinton, it should not be taken with a grain of salt, but rather with the utmost scrutiny.
Where Trump might think he s being funny, there could be some sociopath out there who listens to Trump s words and finds inspiration.
A person who could do unspeakable things for any number of reasons.One person who knows exactly how dangerous people who are inspired to do horrific acts can be is Patti Davis, the daughter of former President Ronald Reagan.
Reagan was himself shot by a deranged man named John Hinckley.Taking to Facebook after Trump s outrageous remarks, Davis laid into Trump as only a person with her life experiences can do.
She said: To Donald Trump: I am the daughter of a man who was shot by someone who got his inspiration from a movie, someone who believed if he killed the President the actress from that movie would notice him.
Your glib and horrifying comment about Second Amendment people was heard around the world.
It was heard by sane and decent people who shudder at your fondness for verbal violence.
It was heard by your supporters, many of whom gleefully and angrily yell, Lock her up!
at your rallies.
It was heard by the person sitting alone in a room, locked in his own dark fantasies, who sees unbridled violence as a way to make his mark in the world, and is just looking for ideas.
Yes, Mr. Trump, words matter.
But then you know that, which makes this all even more horrifying.
And she s absolutely correct.
Instead of doubling down on his remarks, or claiming what he said isn t actually what he said.
He should have owned the fact that he misspoke, clarified his true intent, and apologized to not only Hillary Clinton, but to all those who have been affected by gun violence.
However, the chances of that happening are slim to none, so, don t hold your breath.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images, Facebook