Our culture is what makes this Nation great and very exceptional.
Unfortunately, we ve elected a president who s changing our nation at warp speed with refugees (their words) deposited into towns everywhere: Working and middle class whites are becoming a slave class that toils to provide benefits to the Third Worlders imported to empower the ruling class of elitist liberals.
THE CULTURE WAR WE RE INAmericans believe that they are exceptional because their country is exceptional.
So the left eagerly swarms to argue that America is not exceptional, except maybe that it s exceptionally bad.Americans believe that individuals succeed with hard work.
Obama and Elizabeth Warren bray that You didn t build that.
Americans believe in religion and family.
The left sets out to destroy them by proving that these institutions are evil and oppressive.
Religious leaders are pedophiles.
The family is setting for abuse that makes gay people feel bad.
When the dust settlers, the only good religion and family are the kind defined by the left.
Having destroyed the existing system of organization, the left replaces it with its own.
That is the ultimate goal of a culture war.
Not mere destruction, but absolute power.The culture war begins by attacking abstract ideas.
Then it attacks organizations.
Then it attacks people.By attacking the ideas, it undermines the organizations based on them so that it can seize control of them or destroy them.
Once that s done, it controls a sector of society and begins enforcing its conformity agenda on individuals.
Much of that is underway.
The war is drilling down to the individual level.
We are approaching the tyranny threshold.At the individual level, the goal of the culture war is to destroy your will to resist them.
The left has many tools for doing this.Please read the entire piece by Daniel Greenfield: This Culture War We re InOBAMA ESCALATES CULTURAL GENOCIDEIt isn t enough to invite illegal aliens to invade the USA in their numberless hordes and then quickly distribute them along with their exotic diseases throughout the country.
Obama is now using your money to fly them directly from Central America, so as to save them the bother of traveling through Mexico:To facilitate the often treacherous process of entering the United States illegally through the southern border, the Obama administration is offering free transportation from three Central American countries and a special refugee/parole program with resettlement assistance and permanent residency.
The new arrivals will be officially known as Central American Minors (CAM) and they will be eligible for a special refugee/parole that offers a free one-way flight to the U.S. from El Salvador, Guatemala or Honduras.
The project is a joint venture between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the State Department.Readers will recall that DHS was originally set up to defend the homeland.
Under the Orwellian Obama Regime, it is in charge of orchestrating an invasion of the homeland.After Pearl Harbor, some feared a Japanese invasion.
It would have been preferable to what is happening to us now.
If the Imperial Japanese had successfully invaded, they would have ruled for a time, but eventually would have been kicked out.
The current invaders aren t going anywhere, and they reproduce much faster than Americans.Plus the Japanese never expected us to pay them to invade us:The candidates will then be granted a special refugee parole, which includes many taxpayer-funded perks and benefits.
Among them is a free education, food stamps, medical care and living expenses.
A State Department official promoted CAM as a family reunification program that will be completely funded by American taxpayers, though the official claimed to have no idea what the cost will be.Who can put a price on the future?The fig leaf of refugees being allowed into the country ahead of immigrants likely to make a positive contribution because their lives are supposedly in danger has been dropped.The State Department official assured that applicants need not express or document a credible fear to qualify under CAM because we want to make sure this program is open to as many people as possible.
Consider this as part of the bigger picture of what is being done to America, and it goes beyond treason.
It is cultural genocide.Our rulers know exactly what they are doing.
From the official federal propaganda outfit Voice of America:America s demographics are changing like never before.
In less than 30 years, whites will no longer be the racial majority in the United States.On the large scale, race and culture are inseparable.
Americans are effectively becoming a minority within our own country.
Our own democracy will be used against us to relegate us to a permanent second class status (as South Africa demonstrates, whites being a minority hardly spares them from Affirmative Action).Working and middle class whites are becoming a slave class that toils to provide benefits to the Third Worlders imported to empower the ruling class of elitist liberals.
Eventually intermarriage will breed the last of our kind out of existence, as VOA happily implies:In 1960, multiracial marriages accounted for only 0.4 percent of all marriages in the United States.
By 2010, that figure rose to 8.4 percent, with interracial couples accounting for 15 percent of all new marriages a trend that experts say will only continue.The VOA piece was given the Orwellian title, Experts: Coming Demographic Shift Will Strengthen US Culture.
What they mean by this is that the deliberately engineered demographic shift will erase US culture, so that it can be replaced by a multicultural utopia preconceived by cultural Marxists.It used to be genocide meant herding unwanted demographic sectors into gas chambers.
But that was crude and inefficient.
Simply diluting us out of existence can be done without mess and incredibly, without resistance.Via: moonbattery