To most people watching Trump s disastrous appearance on quack pseudo-doctor, Dr. Oz s show, the appearance was simply an attempt by Trump to prove he s healthy by releasing no information whatsoever.
But did you know he also again joked about having relations with his daughter?The remarks were edited out of the final copy, but journalists who were there for the taping certainly noticed it was missing.So, uh, looks like the producers of "The Dr. Oz Show" cut out the awkward comments from Oz and Trump about fathers kissing daughters Jenna Johnson (@wpjenna) September 15, 2016The Dr. Oz show edited out #Trump's comments on kissing daughter Ivanka as often as possible.
#TrumponOz Michelle Fay Cortez (@FayCortez) September 15, 2016So what, exactly, did Trump say?
Dr. Oz said when Ivanka Trump came on stage, It s nice to see a dad kiss his daughter, reported NBC s Peter Alexander.
Trump responded that he kisses her every chance he gets.
Combined with Trump s numerous other sexual remarks about his daughter, this was just too much for Dr. Oz, who edited the statement out of the show entirely in an apparent effort to save Trump the embarrassment of once again proving himself to be the incest candidate.
I ve said if Ivanka weren t my daughter, perhaps I d be dating her, Trump once said of Ivanka on The View.
Prior to that, he bragged to Howard Stern about Ivanka s body.
More recently, he told GQ: She s really something, and what a beauty, that one.
If I weren t happily married and, ya know, her father And, of course, he once said on a talk show that what he and Ivanka have most in common is sex.
Add that to creepy photos of the two like you see below and it s very clear that the Trump family is a mess.A picture of Donald Trump, with his daughter Ivanka, perched atop two concrete parrots having sex.
pic.twitter.com/TFse8gM1An Tim Ireland (@bloggerheads) January 31, 2016Creepy Trump family is creepy.
pic.twitter.com/I1SL6gnnsi Kyle Foley (@KFoleyFL) September 15, 2016Excellent @HuffingtonPost Ivanka Trump feature.
Also, this photo is creepy AF: https://t.co/UEgD3FBsOX pic.twitter.com/gktyJE5Km8 Marlow Stern (@MarlowNYC) September 7, 2016This is that creepy photo of #Trump in bed with Ivanka.
pic.twitter.com/QNYjipw9qO Hillary 2016 (@KathyNeeds) August 22, 2016He s also been known to openly fantasize about another daughter s breasts when she was one year old.Donald Trump is gearing up to face one of his alleged rape victims in court a woman who was only 13 years old when she says in too much detail for it to be ignored Trump violently raped her and another girl younger than she was.This is the GOP candidate, people.
This man might be our next President.
Think about that and be sure to vote BLUE in November.Watch one of the many, many times Trump has joked about banging his daughter below:Featured image via Twitter