Don t compare Black Lives Matter to the KKK or Daily Show host Trevor Noah will rip you a new one.
Just ask Tomi Lahren.White nationalist darling Tomi Lahren has frequently used her show on The Blaze to whine about and attack Black Lives Matter, going so far as to compare the organization to the KKK.Of course, unlike the KKK, Black Lives Matter protesters do not hide like cowards under sheets and they do not lynch people.
They are also not racist like the KKK because Black Lives Matter is inclusive and works with law enforcement.It s true that some protesters go too far by rioting and looting, but most of the time they are unaffiliated with the group.So when Lahren appeared on the Daily Show for an interview with Trevor Noah on Wednesday night, the fireworks were sure to fly but Lahren was the one who got burned.
For somebody who is not racist, you have to spend a lot of time saying I am not racist, Noah pointed out.
Lahren responded by labeling Black Lives Matter as a group of cop killers who are violent and racist against white people just because of the actions of a few people who claimed to be with Black Lives Matter.Noah struck back by hitting Lahren with her own words.
You re the same person who argued on your show that just because Donald Trump has supporters from the KKK doesn t mean he s in the KKK, he said.As Lahren tried to defend herself by trashing black people, the crowd repeatedly gasped in shock, including when Lahren said she doesn t see color.
But she also claimed that a black man is 18.5 times more likely to shoot a police officer than a police officer is to shoot a black man.
However, it should be pointed out that white people kill more police officers than black people do.Anyway, Noah quipped that Lahren must have trouble at traffic lights since she doesn t see color and went on to say that how we treat color is more important.
Noah then took Lahren to the woodshed for calling Black Lives Matter the new KKK by pointing out that the KKK still exists and that it s incendiary to make such a claim knowing the acts of terrorism and murder the KKK has committed.Lahren then blindly compared Black Lives Matter to the KKK again by blaming protesters for looting and burning before asking, What did the KKK do?
which shocked the audience and Noah.
Did you say, What did the KKK do?
Noah asked in disbelief.
Wow.
Lahren then embarrassed herself by ranting about San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick s refusal to stand during the national anthem and suggested that she s being criticized for attacking him because she is white.
So because I don t disagree with what he did, I should shut up?
she asked Noah.
Because I m white so I should shut up?
I shouldn t be able to talk about black issues cause I m white?
But again, Noah was able to humiliate Lahren with her own words.
No one brought up whites at all I never said that.
I don t see color.
Here s the video via Vid Me.Tomi Lahren got her ass handed to her by Trveor Noah, so now we can expect her to whine about it on her show very soon because getting schooled by a black man who is also an immigrant must be hard for her fragile racist mind to accept.Featured Image: Screenshot