Americans like to sit back and smugly announce that the kind of sectarian violence and civil war we see tearing apart the Middle East could NEVER happen here because (insert snooty tone), We re Not Savages.
Just look at how they voluntarily follow leaders that make crazy promises and use violence to intimidate and silence dissent!
We re nothing like that.Except when we are.WATCH: Trump Supporters Attack Two Men For Quietly Sitting with Protest SignsBlack Lives Matter protester attacked by Trump supporters at rally videoDONALD TRUMP RALLY TURNS CHAOTIC; SUPPORTERS THREATEN BLACK LIVES MATTER PROTESTERSTrump on protester: Maybe he should have been roughed up Trump comes off as little more than a wannabe dictator that encourages his followers to violence, yet he still has millions of followers.
This leads us to a painfully insightful tweet from one Hend Amry, a Libyan refugee:If you re an American confusedly watching the darkest forces of ur nation rally behind a demagogue-maybe u can understand the Mid East now.
Hend Amry (@LibyaLiberty) February 27, 2016Suddenly, we re not quite so superior anymore, are we?
The Bush presidency showed us that Americans would happily reject the rule of law, morality and basic decency if we were angry and scared enough and someone promised us retribution and safety.
Now imagine decades of deprivation and fear and anger being harnessed by ruthless leaders interested in absolute power.
Would we really be any better?
History answers with an unequivocal No.
See: KKK takeover of Oregon, History of.But Amry continued to drive home the point: now imagine if you KNOW it s because of political frustration, economic stagnation, & social decay but everyone kept calling it jihad .
Hend Amry (@LibyaLiberty) February 27, 2016Trump got everyone wanting to make every Muslim walk the plank and you haven t even had a single Muslim nation drone you.God forbid.
Hend Amry (@LibyaLiberty) February 27, 2016 Now imagine if the US gov t outlawed Christian evangelism.
How radicalized would segments of the nation become.And militant.
Bundy on crack.
Hend Amry (@LibyaLiberty) February 27, 2016That s the Mid East today.Years of pol oppression & religious manipulation by dictators offered seats at the UN.
Something had to give.
Hend Amry (@LibyaLiberty) February 27, 2016It may not be a comfortable truth to face but Trump is appealing to the anger and fear generated by a slow economic recovery and changing demographics.
If America were to suffer another massive economic meltdown or 9/11 level terror attack, (mostly white) people would flock to the loudest voice promising safety and strength.
That s how countries fall under the control of violent lunatics.Amry s tweets should be a wake-up call to both the people that smugly denounce the Muslims as violent as well as Americans blindly following a narcissistic sociopath off a cliff.Featured image via screencap.