If Jeb Bush watched The Daily Show last night, he should finally throw in the towel before he embarrasses himself and his family even more than he has already.On Monday night, Trevor Noah torched George W. Bush s brother in a hilarious segment that began with Noah referring to Jeb as the most desperate candidate in the presidential field.
He s so desperate, he s even released his own fragrance for men, Noah quipped.
Dubbed Desperation by Jeb!, Noah promoted the scent as being for when being yourself just isn t enough.
He then took a whiff and laughingly remarked, Smells like George Bush.
But it got even worse for Jeb from there.Noah reported that Bush and his supporters have spent more money on ads than anyone else, but that for all of the $40 million spent on positive ads telling voters about Bush, it has resulted in zero returns.This is a private admission from advisers to Jeb s own SuperPAC, Right To Rise.
Even a Bush supporter was embarrassed by the results, exclaiming that, You might as well light all of this money on fire.
An amused Noah pointed out that it s pretty messed up when your campaign spending is failing so bad that burning the money would have been just as useful.
That would have been more effective for Jeb Bush because at least people would have gathered around him for the warmth of the fire.
People notice a fire.
They don t notice Jeb Bush.
The money could have been put to better use by building a new water system for Flint, Michigan, Noah added.Instead, Bush spent a lot of the money on video mailers featuring a Bush documentary that were actually mailed to his supporters and potential voters, something that Noah found to be such a huge waste of money that he was rendered speechless for a few seconds before regaining his composure to nail Jeb with another zinger.
Poor Jeb, he s so desperate for his videos to go viral he s willing to physically mail them to your house.
Still, Jeb Bush hadn t reached the bottom of the desperation pot.Noah then revealed that Bush had enlisted his mother to appear in an ad touting him as the one candidate who seems to be able to solve the country s problems.
The Daily Show host noted that Jeb s own mom didn t sound sold on her son s qualifications as presidential material.
It s like a guy getting his mom to hit people up on Tinder for him, he said, which led to a video clip showing an exchange between Bush and a voter.
Bush asked the voter who she is voting for.
After she replied that she didn t know yet, Bush responded, Oh, come on.
And thus a new campaign slogan was born.Here s the video via Comedy Central.Seriously, Jeb.
Do America a favor and put yourself out of our misery.
It s probably the only thing you can do that people will support.Featured Image: Screenshot