If there s one thing that has become abundantly clear over the past year or so, it s that the Trump family isn t all that bright especially when it comes to spelling.
They can manage to misspell even the simplest of words and seem to be completely oblivious to the fact that spell check is a thing.On Tuesday, which was the Fourth of July, Donald Trump Jr. sent out a tweet asking what exactly are Big Govt, opprressive taxation, anti 2A left wing socialists celebrating today?
Out of curiosity, what exactly are Big Govt, opprressive taxation, anti 2A left wing socialists celebrating today?
Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 4, 2017Former United States Attorney Preet Bharara, who was fired while investigating Trump after repeated assurances that his job was secure, responded to Junior s misspelled tweet by hilariously trolling him for failing at grade school level spelling.
Also we might celebrate the ability of immigrant spelling bee contestants to know that oppressive has only one r. Build a wwallll, Bharara tweeted back at Trump s son.Also we might celebrate the ability of immigrant spelling bee contestants to know that oppressive has only one r. Build a wwallll.
https://t.co/zAed69PxYM Preet Bharara (@PreetBharara) July 5, 2017Bharara wasn t the only one to point out Junior s error.I dunno, try literacy?
#opprressive Mike Denison (@mikd33) July 4, 2017People who can fucking spell.
Gwen Ihnat (@gwenemarie) July 5, 2017Freedom of education and that includes spelling.
Also the dream of civil rights, women s rights, and equality for all Americans.
Shannon Stirone (@shannonmstirone) July 5, 2017Public education for one.
Your education failed you, Junior.
Heather Whaley (@HeatherWhaley) July 5, 2017Not free health care and a world class education system that s for sure HanAssholeSolo (@KomptonMusic) July 4, 2017Oppressive *.
Your phone literally has spellcheck.
Joe Port ??
(@JoePort) July 4, 2017*oppressive They re probably figuring out a way to teach you English Joey Ayoub ?
(@joeyayoub) July 5, 2017The freedom to spell oppressive correctly?
Chris Lowell (@mrchrislowell) July 5, 2017You would think that since these people are supposed to be the First Family, they would try a little harder to avoid making themselves look like complete morons.
Alas, we are asking too much.
The Trump s would be an embarrassment at a third-grade spelling bee, so is it any wonder that they humiliate the United States on a daily basis?Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images