On Tuesday, the Trump campaign took a huge blow when campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was finally charged for an assault on a Breitbart reporter earlier this year.
Lewandowski faces a battery charge after he left bruises on Michelle Fields when he mistook her for a member of the hostile and evil lamestream media.
Despite the existence of a mountain of evidence including pictures of the bruises, numerous eyewitness accounts, and even newly-released video that clearly shows the attack, the Trump campaign has repeatedly continued its tradition of ignoring reality.After Lewandowski was charged, Trump assured the world that his campaign will continue to stand behind its campaign manager the same way that The Donald stands behind members of the Make America Great Again crowd who attack black people at his rallies.
Following his campaign manager s legal issues, Trump jumped on Twitter to claim that the tapes which, once again, clearly show the assault, demonstrate absolutely nothing: Wow, Corey Lewandowski, my campaign manager and a very decent man, was just charged with assaulting a reporter.
Look at tapes-nothing there!
Yes, that s horrible, and grabbing a reporter so hard that it leaves bruises (no matter how disreputable she is) is pretty goddamn bad, but at least she didn t encounter former U.S. Attorney Kendall Coffey, an attorney representing Lewandowski.
She might have spent a few weeks nursing bite marks.Coffee, who served with as much dignity as can be expected from someone associated with Trump from 1993-1996, resigned after he racked up a $900 bill at a Miami-Dade County strip club and allegedly settled the dispute by biting a dancer known only as Tiffany (and, ultimately, paying the tab with his credit card).
The decision to leave is the most painful and difficult choice of my life, Coffey told staffers as he resigned.
But leave I must, because my family has already paid too great a price for the sacrifices that accompany public service.
With the allegations recently raised and pending, I now have concerns about the possible impact on the important work of my office, he said, apparently viewing dealing with the repercussions of biting a f*cking exotic dancer to be a run-of-the-mill sacrifices dealt with by public servants.The Sun-Sentinel reported at the time that Coffee s father bought back the credit card receipt for $1,200 in an effort to protect his son s actions from being discovered.The dancer and her husband at the time said that Coffee bit hard enough to break the skin, but that they did not want to end his political career.Men and women visit strip clubs on a regular basis, but not often does someone bite one of the dancers .
That takes a special kind of animal the sort that would accept work defending a man who attacked someone because he thought she was part of an adversarial media, the sort who would actually have done worse.Watch the pretty much indisputable security camera footage of the attack below: