Timing is everything, and no one knows how to seize the moment better than members of the Kardashian family.
The progressive left is determined to bully Americans into submission when it comes to accepting the LGBT lifestyle as mainstream.
After spending years in the reality TV business, Bruce Jenner just happens to know a thing or two about marketing himself and has a chosen much kinder and more palatable approach.
And now, in true Kardashian style, it s time to sit back and cash in and his contribution to the decay of our society big time.Watch new promo for Bruce s new show I am Cait here: How many people go through life and just waste their entire life because they never deal with themselves, with who they are?
Jenner says at the start of the 60-second spot.
According to a press release, the eight-part, one-hour series I Am Cait will tell the story of Jenner as he lives his new normal.
Living for the first time as the person he feels he was born to be, the docuseries will also explore what Bruce s transition means for the people in his life and how those relationships are affected, while offering a better understanding of many of life s challenges, E!
said in the statement.The promo follows Jenner as he applies makeup in a mirror and drives out into the world.
It s so bright out there, look at that, Jenner says from the backseat of a car.
Isn t it great that maybe someday you ll be normal?
Just blend into society?
You are normal, a woman interjects.
Put it this way: I m the new normal, Jenner replies.Bruce Jenner, who appeared for the first time as a transgender woman on an infamous Vanity Fair magazine cover earlier this week, could parlay his transition into a half-billion dollar fortune within a decade, experts predict.Jenner s net worth is already estimated to be $100 million.
But experts familiar with the earning potential of media figures told the New York Daily News that the former gold medal Olympian and Keeping Up with the Kardashians star could be worth as much as $500 million in the next five to ten years.
She could become the wealthiest of them all, VH1 s The Gossip Table host Rob Shuter told the paper, referring to the rest of the Kardashian family.
If Bruce Jenner made $100 million in 65 years, if all the stars align, she could be worth over $500 million in the next five to 10 years.
Caitlyn is going to be a pioneer.
Jenner is set to star in an eight-part, one-hour reality television series called I Am Cait, airing this summer on E!
And he was already earning between $20,000-$40,000 in speaking fees prior to his transition, according to fee tracking website BigSpeak.com.
But that figure could shoot up sharply in the wake of Jenner s transformation and subsequent magazine cover.
A book deal could hit seven figures, Brian Balthazar, editor of culture website Pop Goes the Week, told the Daily News.
Speeches could garner six figures each.
There is no denying the transgender movement s recent ascendancy in the national culture.
In addition to Jenner s record-breaking magazine cover and upcoming reality show, popular television shows like Amazon s Transparent have catapulted the issue to the forefront of American consciousness, and some companies are already jumping on the chance to get involved.Via: Breitbart News