The Federal Election Commission has issued a 250-page report on Trump s campaign that appears to contain a number of campaign finance violations in the form of excessive and prohibited contributions.
Why does this matter now that all is said and done?
From page 2 of the FEC s letter: If you have received prohibited contributions, you must make a refund.
(11 CFR 103.3 (b)(1)) The refund must be made within 30 days of the treasurer becoming aware of the illegality of the contribution.
(11 CFR 103.3(b)(2)) That notice is all over the initial letter, before they get into each and every single donation that might be in violation of election law.Among the violations are anonymous contributions in excess of $50, contributions from unregistered organizations, contributions from prohibited corporations, LLCs and labor organizations, and contributions that exceed federal campaign finance limits.
All told, Trump s campaign appears to have received illegal donations from 65 companies, and excessive donations from hundreds of individual donors.Now, as Christina Wilkie points out on Twitter, it s not unusual for the FEC to send letters to campaigns after the election is over that seek clarification on things.
However, Wilkie also tweeted:Important note: Most campaigns get a letter asking for clarifications.
But they re usually around 15-20 pages.
I ve never seen 250 pages.
https://t.co/vu0OCOXWTx Christina Wilkie (@christinawilkie) January 13, 2017.
@FEC says Trump campaign took illegal donations from more than 50 LLCs and corps.
Clinton didn t have any of these.
https://t.co/oQ1jS9uDIm pic.twitter.com/e8Ziuzsbih Christina Wilkie (@christinawilkie) January 13, 2017Like Trump himself, his campaign couldn t be bothered to actually figure out what the rules were and abide by them.
The money was rolling in and they didn t really seem to care, or, if they did, they were extremely sloppy about trying to stay within the law.
Even after subtracting allowable donations from what s listed, Trump could owe well more than $2 million in refunds.The FEC can take enforcement action against the Trump campaign if they don t bring themselves into compliance, including issuing refund checks to everyone from whom they illegally accepted money.Featured image by Spencer Platt via Getty Images