With no one wanting to perform for Donald Trump at the inauguration, people are now people forced to perform.
And the people being forced to perform are the legendary Radio City Rockettes.
They are contractually obligated to perform.In fact, the Rockettes union is calling any form of boycott of the event invalid.
According to BroadwayWorld:BroadwayWorld has obtained and confirmed the authenticity of an email sent from the American Guild of Variety Artists to what appears to be Rockettes in its membership as a response to the announcement that some Rockettes do not want to participate in the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump.The email reads: We have received an email from a Rockette expressing concern about getting involved in a dangerous political climate but I must remind you that you are all employees, and as a company, Mr. Dolan obviously wants the Rockettes to be represented at our country s Presidential inauguration, as they were in 2001 & 2005.
Any talk of boycotting this event is invalid, I m afraid.
Everyone is entitled to her own political beliefs, but there is no room for this in the workplace.
The email continues in bolded, underlined font: If you are not full time, you do not have to sign up to do this work.
If you are full time, you are obligated.
Doing the best performance to reflect an American Institution which has been here for over 90 years is your job.
I hope this pulls into focus the bottom line on this work.
The Rockettes aren t taking this sitting down.
Rockette Phoebe Pearl wrote on Instagram: I usually don t use social media to make a political stand but I feel overwhelmed with emotion.
Finding out that it has been decided for us that Rockettes will be performing at the Presidential inauguration makes me feel embarrassed and disappointed.
The women I work with are intelligent and are full of love and the decision of performing for a man that stands for everything we re against is appalling.
I am speaking for just myself but please know that after we found out this news, we have been performing with tears in our eyes and heavy hearts.
We will not be forced!
#notmypresident However, they are still being forced, and it is not okay.
Donald Trump has been shown on tape to admitting to sexually assaulting women by forcing himself on them sexually, and insinuating it s fine because he s famous.
Now, in a weird and disgusting parallel, these female performers are once again being forced to do something for Trump against their will at risk of losing their jobs.
It s horrifically befitting.But you can stand up for them by contacting their union and letting them know that these women shouldn t be forced to do anything they re uncomfortable with.Here s the contact info:.
@Rockettes being CONTRACTUALLY FORCED into performing at the sexual predator's inauguration.
#AGVA threatening to fire and/or sue if not.
pic.twitter.com/Z7dIGwmSaV Kevin Clamato (@KevinClamato) December 23, 2016It s not the fault of these women that no one wants to perform for Trump, so they had to go and find performers who are contractually obligated.
They shouldn t have to fear losing their jobs because they don t want to perform for a person as vile as Trump.Featured Photo by Isaac Brekken, Drew Angerer/Getty Images