Economists, even conservative ones, have severe problems with Trump s economic policies.
They re unrealistic, and he doesn t know what he s talking about according to both liberal and conservative economists.
Trump has made a point of not listening to the experts, but the experts know what they re talking about far better than Trump ever will.Stan Veuger, from the conservative American Enterprise Institute, was very forthright in his opinion of Trump s ahem economic policy: He doesn t really know what he s talking about, and his policy platform is so incoherent that he has to make claims like that.
It sounds like Veuger thinks Trump is making grandiose promises specifically to cover up the fact that he doesn t have a sane economic plan.
Knowing Trump, that s exactly what he s doing.
It also sounds like Veuger finds it frustrating that Trump won t listen to any experts.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody s Analytics, and someone both Trump and Hillary have claimed is batting for the other team, gave The Hill his own summary of his analysis of Trump s plan, saying: His growth expectations are not realistic.
The economy s potential growth is 2 percent, and to get stronger growth will require immigration reform that provides a path to legalization for the undocumented and a significant increase in skilled legal immigration.
He is strongly opposed to this.
Trump has bragged that he can increase our GDP from its current 1.4 percent to 4, 5 or even 6 percent, which is just flat ridiculous.
He s also adamantly opposed to giving undocumented immigrants a path to citizenship and, in fact, wants to create a deportation force to get rid of them.
He thinks that will open up jobs for Americans and get our economy booming again, but that s a pipe dream.His strong nationalism has made him opposed to allowing more immigrants in, even legally.
He believes they ll take Americans jobs, and he s afraid they could be dangerous, too.Trump believes that the economic growth he s promising will pay for the tax cuts he s promising, but it won t happen that way.
Zandi says that these plans will cripple the economy and federal revenue.
Of course, Trump won t listen, because reasons.
What s clear, though, is that the experts who know better than Trump are growing bolder in trashing his concept of economics.Featured image by Spencer Platt via Getty Images