A Pennsylvania man apparently failed basic biology, but he s a strong Donald Trump supporter.
Carl Unger of Montgomery Pennsylvania wrote a letter to the Williamsport Sun-Gazette.
The letter was supportive of Trump, but in protesting being called sexist, he makes one of the most sexist, and stupid attacks on Hillary Clinton yet.
Now the liberals and Obama are calling for social justice and it is just code for socialism, the letter begins.
Now they have college students who are talking about being triggered and taking away freedom of speech while the liberal politicians work on taking our guns so we cannot defend ourselves when the government comes.
I hate to break it to you, Carl, but the government is everywhere.
The government is the military, it s the police.
If they wanted your guns, they would take them.
They don t want them.
They call us sexist just because we are critical of Hillary Clinton and her health.
Critical of her health?
Do you expect her to apologize for the apparent federal offense of getting pneumonia?Read this next sentence/paragraph twice.Gee, Carl, we totally believe you aren t sexist, especially after that zinger.
Women get sick and have their time of the month all the friggen time.
Most of us still go about our business, because we have no other choice.
As for Clinton, though, um, she s 68 years old.
She probably hasn t had her time of the month since the last millennia.
The last time, she likely lived in the White House.
If she is still getting her period, well, we should be in complete awe.In case Carl s sexist argument for why he s not sexist hasn t convinced you, he also made a racist argument for why he s not racist.
The liberals call us racist to silence us because they cannot handle the truth that when they give out money to people of all races it makes them lazy.
Here s the full letter:This letter actually ran in the Williamsport Sun-Gazette, a real newspaper, today pic.twitter.com/LEPYtC2sx5 Anna Orso (@anna_orso) October 15, 2016 Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images.