Jason Kander is a Democrat running for a United States Senate seat in Missouri.
The seat is currently held by Roy Blunt, a Republican.
Kander, who is 35-years-old and is also Missouri s current attorney general, recently released probably the best political advertisement we will see in the 2016 election.Kander s opponent has been attacking him for supporting more effective background checks on gun sales.That was a major mistake for Blunt.
That s because Kander is an Afghanistan war veteran.
Which means that he knows his way around firearms, which Kander demonstrates perfectly in his campaign video.
The thirty-second advertisement busts a myth that the right-wing has made about gun-law-reformers for decades that enacting smart safety regulations is tantamount to unilateral gun confiscation.In reality, despite what the NRA would have people think, gun law reformers want to create laws that should be considered common sense.
Such as say, not letting people on terrorist watch lists purchase firearms.In the ad, Kander stands in front of a table with a dissembled rifle on the table.
Kander proceeds to assemble the weapon while blindfolded.
While Kander assembles the rifle he says: I m Jason Kander and Senator Blunt has been attacking me on guns.
Well, in the army I learned how to use and respect my rifle.
In Afghanistan, I volunteered to be a gun in an unarmored convoy of SUV s. In the state legislature, I supported 2nd amendment rights.
I also believe in background checks so that terrorists can t get their hands on one of these.
When Kander finishes assembling the rifle, he removes his blindfold and says, I approve this message because I d like to see Senator Blunt do this.
A majority of Americans are in favor of expanding background checks.
Yet, Congress has not taken action to support legislation that would create such a system.
That s because the NRA is holding our Congress hostage.
They donate huge amounts of moneyto political candidates.
In 2016, so far the NRA has spent $825,000 dollars in campaign contributions.
A paltry sum compared to the total amounts of money they have spent influencing politics.
Overall, they have spent more than a quarter million dollars supporting Blunt.They also work endlessly to brainwash their supporters into thinking that all gun-reformers want to get rid of the second amendment.
Which is absolutely not true.
This ad effectively smashes that conflation in mere seconds.You can watch the ad below in full:https://www.facebook.com/kanderformissouri/videos/1102167116543853/Feature image from video screenshot