NBC s Chuck Todd was no match for the astute HHS Sec Tom Price in an interview today on the healthcare bill.
Todd tried to get Price to badmouth Trump at the 6:45 point Not gonna happen!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lIis3b-tMCUHealth & Human Services Secretary Tom Price joined NBC s Chuck Todd today to discuss healthcare but Todd tried to get Price to bad-mouth the president.Chuck Todd started out being combative on the healthcare bill and then moved on to bashing President Trump.Chuck Todd goes there: Let me ask you about the tone of the president s tweets.
Many Republicans in the Senate condemned the personal attack on Mika Brzezinski and attacking on her looks.
You have Lindsey Graham saying it was beneath the office.
Ben Sasse, This isn t normal.
Jeff Flake, Beneath the dignity of the presidency.
Susan Collins begging, This has to stop.
Lisa Murkowski begging, This has to stop.
Does his behavior bother you?
HHS Sec Tom Price wasn t about to go there and handled the uncomfortable situation beautifully: Well, what I m concentrated on is the job that he s given me.
And that is to make certain that we fulfill the mission of the Department of Health and Human Services, which is to improve the health, safety, and well-being of the American people.
And there are a whole array of activities that we re undertaking.
One of them is this piece of legislation that s in the Senate right now.
But my job is consumed by making certain that we fulfill the mission at the department.
Todd follows up with this rude question: I m just asking you as a father.
If your son tweeted about a woman like that, what would you say to him?
Price fired back: Chuck, you know, this is really remarkable.
You ve got incredible challenges across this nation, incredible challenges around the world.
The challenge that I ve been given is to address the health care issues.
And your program, a program with the incredible history of Meet the Press, and that s what you want to talk about?
Let me suggest to you that the American people want to talk about the challenges.
Chuck Todd then tried to twist and spin his way out of the corner he just painted himself into: Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, you re blaming me for what the president of the United States has spent his entire week focused on?
HAHA!
CHUCK TODD STEPS IN IT WITH THAT COMMENT PRICE BURIES HIM WITH THIS LAST COMMENT: No, listen to me, with all due respect.
The American people are concerned about a health care system that is not providing choices, where premiums are going up, where insurance companies are vacating markets all across this land.
And that s what they want us to concentrate on.
And that s what they want us to fix.
And that s what I and the president are working on.
BOOM!