An anonymous post translated into English has touched a nerve in Germany.
A 50-year old woman describes her life with the flood of refugees and how she cannot trust her government anymore.
Note the many similarities with America under Obama.
(R sum of a German woman)I am almost 50 years old, I have a University degree, and was out of love for nature always a trusted voter for the Green Party.
I never felt much interest for politics.
In Germany everything seemed to always go its natural regular course.
I had trusted our parliamentary democracy, I thought our administration would hardly make mistakes, because it is controlled by the opposition.
Never, absolutely never did I think that I would lose all my trust in the State.
It s unbearable that I am afraid of the future.
Preferably I d just like to leave.
But I feel to old to leave Europe.What country would even take me anymore?
I am not a shameless African that just seats himself in a refugee boat.
I would properly apply to the respective immigration authority.
But my chances are close to zero.
I am like most Europeans damned to impotence as I see this invasion happen.When, about ten years ago, a friend of mine emigrated to Australia, I felt sorry for her.
How could one leave our beautiful Europe?
A continent with such wonderful nature and culture.
I would ve never even thought of this.
Today I know: She did the right thing.I am becoming depressed in Europe.
Our defenselessness shocks me.
The failure to act by our politicians drowns my mind in a fog of powerlessness.
I have not read any of Sarrazin s books, so as not to upset myself even more.
Everything I read, in just our daily newspapers, is enough for me already.The Euro is a complete nightmare.
The illegal immigration is a complete nightmare.
But the single largest outrage is the political correctness which disables us from criticizing these immense breaches of law.We, that is us adult and mature citizens, who are in this way disenfranchised.
When I went to school, I was taught critical thinking.
What good is that to me now?Meanwhile I hate the Green party.
They are asinine and dopey, and they are shameless.
Just like the SPD and the CDU.
They expect that we get up at 6 AM in the morning and encourage our children to succeed, just so that they will wear themselves out like us in order to be able to keep on financing this daily madness.
And soon until we re 73 years old.
[Translator: Germany plans to raise retirement age to 73].
But a State that provides no more stability, can no more expect of its citizens to function at full capacity.
With each pot hole I drive through, with each African that I see loitering around, my motivation tanks more.What does our Politics even still have to offer to us?
Legalization of hemp probably so that we can withstand daily life in this insane country!
Other than that there is nothing innovative on the program.
I have looked at it all.
Because I am looking for a new party that I can vote for.I want the Deutsche Mark back and that the outer borders of the EU are being protected.
I don t want more than that.
Is that too much to ask for?Also, a video below shows a trend of Germans moving to Hungary to escape the refugees.
Note how the people who ve moved are made out to be the ones in the wrong for being fearful.
The leftist media does the same thing in America.
This despicable leftist media hit piece still shows, despite itself, how bad it is in Germany if nice, hard working Germans are ready to leave everything familiar and move to Hungary.This is an important news piece for a couple of reasons.The obvious is that large numbers of established Germans are moving from the comfort of their own culture, friends and family to Hungary, which says a lot about the pressure they feel at home.The second is the German media s attempt to make them appear not as they are, victims of Merkel s insane policies, but as somehow villains for making those policies look bad by leaving.