Jason Kauti, an avid supporter of Donald Trump, is facing felony charges in Georgia after he freaked out and started making death threats when a woman online called the GOP nominee racist.
(Just for the record, he is.
But I digress.
)A woman, whose name is being withheld at her request, made the fateful mistake of commenting on a friend s political Facebook post.
(We ve all been there.)
However, when she commented that Trump is a racist, all hell broke lose.
Things quickly spiraled out of control when Kauti threatened to murder the woman and her family.
If we ever cross paths I will kill you and your family, Kauti wrote on Facebook.The woman filed a complaint on July 23, seeking help from authorities after her life and the safety of her family was threatened online.
Milton police spokesman Lt. Charles Barstow said that Kauti was arrested after posting his death threat on the social media site.
They were having an argument and unfortunately the dialogue turned into threats, some very serious threats, Barstow said.The Atlanta Journal Constitution reports that as recently as Tuesday, public posts on Kauti s Facebook timeline show him holding a handgun with an expletive comment suck it under a profile picture of the University of Miami Hurricanes football logo.
That post seems to have been removed, or at least, it is no longer public.When speaking with police, the woman said that Kauti had claimed online to have been in the Class of 1997 at Milton High School.
She also provided authorities with a screenshot of the post, but they had to verify that what we see online is exactly as it is before they were able to take any action.Kauti has had quite the exciting summer it seems.
On July 24, a day after the woman filed her complaint, Kauti was booked into the Fulton County Jail on charges of felony terroristic threat making, erratic lane change and driving under the influence of alcohol.
He spent two days behind bars before he was released on a $2,600 bond.A month later, Kauti was sitting in the slammer once again, this time for his homicidal Facebook threats.Fulton County Jail spokeswoman Tracy Flanagan said that although the arrest on July 24 arrest came a day after the woman filed her complaint, the warrant for Kauti s arrest wasn t signed until a month later on August 24.
So it would seem that Kauti turned himself in to be processed for the new charge, Flanagan explained.Kauti was released on August 26 after paying the Alpha Bonding Company for a $7,500 bond.
He is scheduled to appear for a preliminary hearing on Friday.You can watch more here.Featured image via AJC.com