Imagining what Donald Trump would be like as the next president of the United States is terrifying for every level-headed American.
In fact, most of us don t even want to think about what it would be like.Bill Maher gave us an awful dose of reality on Real Time last night, when he imagined what a State of the Union address from the current Republican presidential front runner might look like.
The enactment was prefaced with Maher pointing out the irony of Trump s complaints that former Mexican President Vicente Fox had used foul language to fire back at him after he pledged to make Mexico pay for the construction of his beloved U.S.-Mexico border wall if he became president.
Fox s amazing response to that was I m not going to pay for the f*cking wall and he refused to comply when Trump demanded an apology for the comment.Amused with Trump s complete lack of self-awareness, Maher quipped on his show: Donald Trump must admit that, of all his reversals, hypocrisies, and 180s, his condemnation this week of Vicente Fox for using foul language is the most ridiculous of all.
Talk about the pot calling the kettle orange.
As Maher rolls footage of the Republican front runner cursing in several public speeches, the fact that Trump is pretending to be offended by Fox becomes even more hilarious.Maher then moved on to tackle Trump s disturbing popularity with the use of his alias, Andrew Dice Trump .
Maher commented that the reason Trump had risen so high was because voters like his crass way of speaking.
Maher remarked, They kind of like it when a politician drops the facade and talks the way we all really talk.
And to explore just what a future Trump presidency might look like, Maher acted out a State of The Union address to show just how political discourse could go if America doesn t wake up soon and realize that we re better than bigotry and outlandish comments.
Assuming the position of Trump in the scene, Maher cursed his entire way through the distasteful address and announced that the state of our union is f*cking awesome.
Sadly, Maher captured Trump perfectly and this is probably a very realistic representation of what a speech by President Trump might look like.
You can watch Maher s enactment below: Featured image is a compilation from Gage Skidmore and a screenshot