Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin is not known for her good decision making.
On Friday, she proved that she is either a total idiot (which we already knew) or that she is a-okay with neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
In a tweet praising Donald Trump s speech in Warsaw, Palin used the phrase 14 Words, which is a well-known slogan of white nationalists.Trump Gives Speech to the People of Poland, Says 14 Words That Leave Americans Stunned https://t.co/8iKHEQemn9 Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) July 7, 2017Twitter was not impressed with Palin slinging around the neo-Nazi phrase.So we re not even hiding it at this point, are we?
There is no 14-word sentence or phrase in the linked transcript.
pic.twitter.com/QXS4rsV3rH Mallory (@MdotClure) July 7, 2017Very clever Sarah.
Totally slipped that one by us Sarah.
Nobody will notice Sarah.
WINK WINK.oh by the way you still have your hood on Gray (@gray) July 7, 2017I know, Reich?
David N (@miyridian) July 7, 201714 words huh?
pic.twitter.com/4vcjbKmGVQ Solidarity Forever?
(@StarstormLeft) July 7, 2017So you re just a flat out racist?
Or are you hoping for a good job in the upcoming Nazi regime?
https://t.co/TAF21vMcZJ Craig Beilinson (@cbeilinson) July 7, 2017Surprised that she did not work 88 into the message as well.
Steve DeTurck (@steve_deturck) July 7, 2017Jumped right out of that white supremacist closet, Sarah?
Head Sanford (@Head_Sanford) July 7, 2017Did Palin really just go full white supremacist?
Eric Strong (@DrEricStrong) July 7, 2017Oh my God!
The White Supremacy dog whistling is getting more and more overt.
Shameful.
https://t.co/DolgmfIVRU Kevin Goebel (@kgoebel) July 7, 2017So, which is it?
Are we once again supposed to believe that a Trump loving Republican just accidentally sent out a white supremacist message?
As multiple news sources have reported, Trump s speech itself was filled with White Supremacist dog whistles.
The Washington Post, Vox, Salon, the L.A. Times, and the Atlantic all called out the neo-Nazi undertones in the words he proudly belted out in Poland.
As Vox explained, Trump s speech used the type of dire, last-chance wording often utilized by the far right on both sides of the Atlantic.
Jonathon Capeheart of the Washington Post responded to Trump s boast that we write symphonies by asking What on Earth does that have to do with anything?
In that one line, taken in context with everything else Trump said, what I heard was the loudest of dog whistles.
A familiar boast that swells the chests of white nationalists everywhere.
In light of Trump s continued love affair with the alt-right, aka neo-Nazis, it is kind of hard to think that Palin s tweet was just another accident.
After all, it seems to be a fairly accurate description of Trump s speech, does it not?Featured image via Kris Connor/Getty Images