Minnesota is home to the largest number of Somali immigrants in America.
Census numbers put the state s Somali s population at about 40,000, but community activists have said it s higher.
The largest share of that group has settled in the Minneapolis area, including one neighborhood near the University of Minnesota campus that s been dubbed Little Mogadishu.
But significant numbers have also settled in St.
Cloud, Willmar and other smaller cities.Being home to the largest number of Somali immigrants in America doesn t come without a price WND For the second time in just over a year, a Somali refugee has stabbed shoppers with a knife at a Minnesota mall.The first case, on Sept. 17, 2016, was a clear act of jihad when Dahir Adan injured 10 people in the Macy s at the Crossroads Center Mall in St.
Cloud after asking his victims, chosen at random, if they were Muslim.But on Sunday night a man identified as Mahad Abdiaziz Abdirahman, 20, of Minneapolis stabbed two men at the Mall of America after they tried to stop him from stealing clothes inside the dressing room at Macy s.His middle name, Abdiaziz, means the slave of Allah the master, a native Arabic speaker told WND.His first name, Mahad, means the one who preaches and invites people to Islam.
Wow!
Talk about the perfect ambassdor for Islam According to the NYP, Abdirahaman sneaked into a men s fitting room at the Minnesota mall and tried to swipe something from a customer s belongings while the man was outside the fitting room modeling clothes for his family.
But he caught Abdirahaman in the act, and the would-be thief pulled a knife and stabbed him, authorities said.Hearing the victim s screams, his family rushed to his aid, but Abdirahaman slashed a second person before they could wrest the knife from him.The scuffle and ensuing response by police freaked out nearby shoppers waiting in line for their kids to see Santa.Violence by Somali immigrants against Minneapolis residents is nothing new to people who have watched the Somali population explode in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.Last year, we reported about a mob of up to 30 young Somali men paraded through one of Minneapolis more upscale neighborhoods last week, yelling disparaging comments and threats against homeowners.A female resident of the neighborhood, obviously shaken in a TV interview, related how she was screamed at by a Somali man who threatened to kidnap and rape her.
They were screaming at the house that they were going to kidnap you and they were going to rape you, one Minneapolis resident told KSTP TV.
It was a very traumatizing experience.
Somalis living in Minneapolis are almost all Sunni Muslims, and residents of the Lake Calhoun area say this isn t the first time a group of Somali men has made an intimidating march through their neighborhood, which is filled with million-dollar homes.Go HERE for video to see homeowner tell her horrifying story.