One woman s awful experience at the airport could soon be what we all go through to travel by air.
This is the day of terrorism where Islamists will do pretty much anything to hide explosives or a weapon so we now have to endure a very intimate examination in order to keep us all safe when flying.
The new procedure was put in place a month ago-Please see the specifics below.Do you have a story to tell?
We d like to hear it.
Here s Jenna s story below:Jenna MacFarlane was on the way to visit a friend in Baltimore in April when her carry-on bag triggered an alarm at Charlotte s airport.A Transportation Security Administration screener told MacFarlane she would have to undergo a full-body pat-down by a female officer.
Late for her flight and with no option other than to be searched in private, MacFarlane agreed.The pat-down, done over her clothes, explored her breasts, crotch and buttocks.
I did not imagine that she would ask me a few times to spread my legs wider and in fact touch my vagina four times with the side of her hand, MacFarlane later wrote in a complaint to the TSA.Just a month before her search, TSA had launched a new, more involved pat-down procedure:Pat-down procedures are used to determine whether prohibited items or other threats to transportation security are concealed on the person.
You may be required to undergo a pat-down procedure if the screening technology alarms, as part of random or unpredictable security measures, for enhanced screening, or as an alternative to other types of screening, such as advanced imaging technology screening.
Even passengers who normally receive expedited screening, such as TSA Pre passengers, may at times receive a pat-down.A pat-down may include inspection of the head, neck, arms, torso, legs, and feet.
This includes head coverings and sensitive areas such as breasts, groin, and the buttocks.
You may be required to adjust clothing during the pat-down.
The officer will advise you of the procedure to help you anticipate any actions before you feel them.
Pat-downs require sufficient pressure to ensure detection, and areas may undergo a pat-down more than once for the TSA officer to confirm no threat items are detected.TSA officers use the back of the hands for pat-downs over sensitive areas of the body.
In limited cases, additional screening involving a sensitive area pat-down with the front of the hand may be needed to determine that a threat does not exist.You will receive a pat-down by an officer of the same gender.
TSA officers will explain the procedures to you as they conduct the pat-down.
Please inform an officer if you have difficulty raising your arms or remaining in the position required; an external medical device; or areas of the body that are painful when touched.
You may request a chair to sit if needed.At any time during the process, you may request private screening accompanied by a companion of your choice.
A second officer of the same gender will always be present during private screening.Read more here: Charlotte Observer