The Washington Post has been pushing the Russia story for months but do they really believe their own bullsh*t?They were just caught on undercover video saying they really haven t found anything on President Trump Adam Entous of The Washington Post spoke the truth about how the reporters are pushing the Russia story even though it s a nothingburger: But we really haven t addressed Our reporting has not taken us to a place where I would be able to say with any confidence that the result of it is going to be the president being guilty of being in cahoots with the Russians.
There s no evidence of that that I ve seen so far.
We ve seen a lot of flirtation, if you will, between them but nothing that, in my opinion, would rank as actual collusion.
Now that doesn t mean that it doesn t exist, it just means we haven t found it yet.
Or maybe it doesn t exist.
Frankly, it s a shame that these people keep up this charade.
A crap shoot ?
Why in the world are they pushing this non-story except to defame Trump with lies or are they getting paid under the table to smear POTUS?
Maybe both?OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE NEW YORK TIMES EXPOSED BY PROJECT VERITAS:Project Veritas latest installment in the American Pravda series takes aim at The New York Times, the supposed paper of record.
In the first part of this series, Nicholas Dudich, Audience Strategy Editor for the Times extensive video library speaks candidly about how his left political bias influences his editorial judgement and reveals an unusual connection to former FBI Director James Comey, and a strange association with domestic terror group Antifa.Since this video came out, the New York Times released a statement saying they ve launched an investigation:This should have been done when hiring this former antifa thug who also worked for Clinton.RT reported:In the video, Dudich calls himself the gatekeeper for all the New York Times videos posted online, saying that his imprint is on every video we do.
Any video that goes on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram I have a hand in that, Dudich said.When talking journalistic ethics, Dudich is captured sarcastically making air quotes while he said that he will be objective working for the Times before quickly admitting: no I m not.
That s why I m there.
According to the New York Times ethical handbook, employees must do nothing that might raise questions about their professional neutrality or that of The Times.
As a journalist, I m not able to give any money to any political organization.
I m not able to volunteer for any political organization.
I m not able to work for any nonprofit or charity.
Like, there s a lot of guidelines and ethics, Dudich said.However, before joining the Times, Dudich worked social media on the 2012 presidential campaign of former President Barack Obama and the 2016 presidential campaign of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.When asked how he was able to be politically active and still work as a journalist, Dudich said that he had to leave his job at ABC to take a job where he wasn t deemed a journalist anymore in order to work for the Clinton campaign.Dudich said he made the sacrifice in order to work against Trump, who he said was a threat.
I saw the threat and I was like, I want to do something, Dudich said.
Trump was a threat and still is a threat, right?
Trump is a threat, the interviewer interjects.
He s a threat.
Oh, he s a threat to everything, Dudich added.Read more President/co-founder of The Dream Corps and CNN contributor Van Jones Rich Polk CNN s Van Jones calls Russia nothing burger video edited, right-wing propaganda At one point, Dudich explains his idea to make Trump resign or leave office by going after his businesses and his dumb f**k of a son, Donald Jr., and Eric.
Target that.
Get people to boycott going to his hotels, Dudich said.
If you can ruin the Trump brand and you put pressure on his business and you start investigating his business and you start shutting it down, or they re hacking or other things.
He cares about his business more than he cares about being President.
He would resign.
Or he d lash out and do something incredibly illegal, which he would have to.