Even though not all the states in the Democratic Primary have been accounted for, the Clinton campaign is feeling pretty confident as a surrogate reveals they are ready to take on Donald Trump in the general election.Their method?
Release hell on the Donald Trump campaign with their copious amount of opposition research.
David Brock, who spoke to Politico reporters, said:We [Democrats] can knock Trump Tower down to the sub-basement.
American Bridge is building a database of all the regular people, from unpaid vendors to harassed tenants to defrauded students at Trump University, who got screwed over for one reason only: they took Trump at his word.American Bridge, as Brock refers to, is a group of private progressive donors who funnel money to Clinton s campaign through their PAC, and have apparently been collecting data and research on Trump since the summer of 2015.
According to Brock, they have discovered a multitude of issues that Republicans missed when vetting the frontrunner.
They also claim they have discovered harmful information that the media too has missed.What could be worse than what the media already knows?
How much worse can he get after being exposed as a sexist, racist, xenophobic, bombastic, sensationalist fraud?
Apparently that isn t enough to turn off voters, Brock warns.
Instead, Democrats need to be cautious, saying beating Trump will not be a cakewalk, but is possible if they paint him as a danger to the Constitution, a menace to democracy, and a threat to the nation as a whole.
Considering he s all three, this might be a cakewalk for Democrats.
And what s even better is that American Bridge is as meticulous as Clinton herself, and has collected equally damaging evidence on rival Ted Cruz, should he squeak out a win at the Republican National Convention.As Brock puts it, should it come to it, this campaign will be a bare-knuckles campaign for the White House.
And who better to come out swinging than Clinton?
Featured image by Eric Thayer/Getty Images