Republican nominee Donald Trump recently surprised everyone when he flip-flopped on the harsh immigration policy he d been promising his racist, hateful supporters since the beginning of his campaign.
It turns out, not everyone is taking this news very well especially the Trump lovers who wanted nothing more than to see millions of illegal immigrants heartlessly removed from the country they built their lives in.On Wednesday s segment of The Glenn Beck Program, a furious Trump supporter shared his reaction to Trump s recent softening on immigration and it wasn t good.
In speaking to host Glenn Beck, Nate from Virginia actually delivered a threat to Trump.
The guest warned: As long as he does the basic things, the foundational things, which is build a wall, he s not going to have people like me coming after him.
Beck wasn t alarmed at first, but was visibly stunned as angry Nate continued his rant.
Seemingly speaking for all Trump supporters, Nate said: Oh, he s in so much trouble.
You don t even understand the backlash of us, the ones who are so frustrated and angry and tired of all the political stuff.
We re going to come after him, personally, you know what I mean?
We re going to get him.
Beck clarified, I don t know what you mean.
Hang on, what does that mean?
Nate s response was far from comforting: You know, the most peaceful way you can get rid of a president When Beck hopefully suggested that Nate might have meant he wants to impeach Trump, Nate corrected him and said he definitely meant violence: Well, I mean, hey, you yourself said he s condoned violence in the past, hasn t he?
He s appealing to people who are very frustrated and angry.
Their frustration and anger can only be subsided if he makes his promises true.
And he has a lot on his shoulders, maybe he himself doesn t even know how much.
But if he doesn t come through for us, he s going to have bigger problems, bigger problems than what you know.
Beck was so disturbed by one of the spookiest phone calls I ve ever received that he hung up on Nate.You can watch the call unfold below:A few weeks ago, Donald Trump had suggested that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton should be assassinated by the Second Amendment people.
He might just be getting a taste of his own medicine now by the very hate movement he created.Featured image via Jonathan Bachman / Getty Images