Trump won the electoral college on Nov. 8.
The electoral college formally voted for him on Dec. 19.
Congress certified that vote on Jan. 6.
And he was sworn in on Jan. 20.
He won the election so why is he still beating his I only lost the popular vote because millions voted illegally, drum?
He s so obsessed with it that he s promised to open up a major investigation into the massive voter fraud that supposedly denied him his rightful popular vote win:I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time).
Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017Where the hell is President Asterisk getting his info?
It seems he s certain that voter fraud is rampant because he saw something in a polling place once.
He supposedly saw Bernhard Langer, a famous golfer, down in Florida sometime after Election Day.
Langer told him a story of how he was turned away at the polls, but others were allowed to cast provisional ballots and he was frustrated.The first glaring problem here is this: Langer is a legal permanent resident, but a German citizen, and is therefore barred from voting in national elections.
If he did try to vote on Election Day, an official would have been legally obligated to turn Langer away.But still, according to The New York Times: Ahead of and behind Mr. Langer were voters who did not look as if they should be allowed to vote, Mr. Trump said, according to the staff members but they were nonetheless permitted to cast provisional ballots.
The president threw out the names of Latin American countries that the voters might have come from.
Because someone s appearance is totally how you can tell whether they re legally allowed to vote here.
Of course Trump would focus on how people look.
It seems that, in his mind, if they appear to be Latino, they re obviously in the country illegally.And people with more than half a brain cell know that s stupid.
Trump told the story to a room full of Congressional leaders at a get to know you gathering in the State Dining room.
The Times says that this little anecdote was greeted with silence.
Then Reince Priebus tried to nudge Trump onto a different topic.This is where Trump is getting his proof that millions of people vote illegally in this country?
Anecdotes like this, that might not even be true, are why we re going to waste time and effort on a claim that s been debunked repeatedly, just so he can make people stop pointing to numbers that show he s a loser?ABC News is reporting that the White House has started working on an executive order to open just such an investigation.
With all of this, one would think Trump has at least some solid evidence that there s widespread voter fraud.
He doesn t.He is way out of hand and he hasn t even been in office for a week.Featured image by Andrew Harrer via Getty Images