On Tuesday, Republican front-runner Donald Trump shocked everyone by announcing that he was boycotting the Fox News GOP debate on Thursday, as it was being moderated by his nemesis, Megyn Kelly.
And in his childish haste to get back at Fox News for giving Kelly another chance to make him look like an idiot, Trump sent the network a message of blatant disrespect: he would be throwing a competing event: a benefit for America s veterans on the very same day as the GOP debate.On Trump s event page for veterans and wounded warriors, the front-runner promised to raise money for the men and women who have been treated so horribly by our all-talk, no-action politicians .
Well, it turns out that veterans have a message for Trump: We don t want your donations.On Wednesday, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America founder Paul Rieckhoff announced that his organization would not accept any contributions that came from Trump s event.
He tweeted:TwitterTwo other veterans groups have also decided they want nothing to do with Trump s publicity stunt.
The Wounded Warrior Project, which has recently come under fire for using its donation money for wasteful purposes, has denied having any awareness of Trump s efforts to fundraise for the organization.
VoteVets.org, however, was willing to send a more direct message to the GOPer.
The organization, which boasts that it is America s largest progressive veterans group, issued a statement that said Don t hide from Megyn Kelly behind us.
Iraq War veteran and chairman of the organization absolutely burned The Donald: Let me put this in language Donald Trump understands.
You re a loser.
You re a third-rate politician, who clearly doesn t understand issues, and is so scared of Megyn Kelly exposing it, that you re looking to use veterans to protect you from facing her questions.
The veterans scorn is honestly well-deserved a look into Trump s past can easily prove that this is just a stunt for Trump and there s no sincerity in his charity event.
The GOP front-runner has actually been whining about homeless veterans for decades, complaining that they bring his property values down.
And before he ran for president, Trump actually wanted to get rid of America s troops.
So don t be fooled by Trump s benefit for vets he doesn t care about them and is just using them to gain more support.Featured image via Gage Skidmore