Yesterday, Senator Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., went on a media blitz that was clearly coordinated by the Democrat Party, at about the same time Senator Al Franken (D-MN) was reluctantly resigning.
Sanders took to his allies in the media to call on President Trump to resign over unproven allegations of sexual misconduct that were made against him during his campaign.
By the way, it should not go without mentioning that we haven t heard a peep from any of Trump s accusers since he won the election.
The Democrats are not going to give up that easily when it comes to ousting President Trump.
Just this week, Democrats gave up the fight for Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) and Senator Al Franken (D-MN) (both of whom represented safe districts for Democrats), after multiple allegations of sexual assault and abuse.
It was a clear play at attempting to convince voters that the Democrats are suddenly the party of morals.Do Democrats really believe Americans will be duped into believing that the party who cheated Bernie Sanders, (who wrote about how women fantasize about being gang-raped) out of the chance to be the Democrat nominee for President, to make Hillary Clinton, (a woman who has been accused of enabling her accused rapist husband, who has also been accused several times of sexual assault, and was impeached for lying about having sex with a 19-year old intern under his desk in the Oval Office) is somehow now the moral party?Here s what Bernie had to say about President Trump yesterday:Washington Examiner We have a president of the United States who acknowledged on a time widely seen all over this country that he assaulted women, so I would hope that maybe the POTUS might pay attention to what s going on and also think about resigning, Sanders told CBS News on Thursday.Bernie recently said it was not up to the Senate or Democrat Party to call on Senator Franken to step down.
Watch, as Sanders glosses over the question when asked about his previous statement (before Democrats decided Franken was a scalp they could spare for the sake of the party).
"What I worry about right now, as we speak, in restaurants and in offices all over this country where you have bosses who are not famous, there is harassment of women and women are being intimidated.
We need a cultural revolution in this country."
@SenSanders pic.twitter.com/GTxAf0PVGA CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) December 7, 2017Watch Sanders (the presumtive leader of the Democrat Party) as he calls on President Trump to step down:"We have a POTUS who acknowledged on a tape widely seen all over the country that he's assaulted women, so I would hope maybe the president of the United States might pay attention of what's going on and also think about resigning."
@SenSanders pic.twitter.com/fy4ucYUEkv CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) December 7, 2017The senator was referencing a tape from Access Hollywood made public during the 2016 election on which the president was heard talking about grabbing women without their consent.
More than a dozen women have accused Trump of sexual misconduct.Several of Sanders colleagues in Congress have been accused of inappropriate behavior, and Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., is expected to make a speech on the Senate floor addressing the allegations against him late Thursday morning.Speaking of words Trump used decades ago when referring to a woman, during a private conversation with another man, what about the disgusting and degrading essay Bernie Sanders wrote about women in 1972?Daily Wire A 1972 essay written by socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) expressed his views on human sexuality in which he claimed that women fantasize about being gang-raped and men fantasize about sexually abusing women.The article Man and Woman, came to light after Mother Jones published it during the 2016 presidential election before Sanders started to gain significant momentum in the race.Sanders piece was originally published in the Vermont Freeman and was a reflection on his views of gender and sexuality, the Washington Examiner reported.The first two-paragraphs in Sanders article drew the most controversy:A man goes home and masturbates his typical fantasy.
A woman on her knees, a woman tied up, a woman abused.A woman enjoys intercourse with her man as she fantasizes being raped by three men simultaneously.Sanders was 31 years old at the time he wrote the essay and had just launched his first campaign for Senate, which proved to be the first of several losing campaigns before he became mayor of Burlington nine years later.WATCH:Bernie Sanders 1972 essay:"A man goes home and masturbates his typical fantasy.
A woman on her knees, a woman tied up, a woman abused.
""A woman enjoys intercourse with her man as she fantasizes being raped by 3 men simultaneously.
"A sitting US Senator thinks these things.
pic.twitter.com/WyxY9CFFwu Ryan Saavedra (@RealSaavedra) November 26, 2017