On Tuesday, White House Propaganda Minister Sean Spicer once again baffled reporters and other thinking individuals by once again saying the dumbest thing imaginable.Asked why the White House refuses to provide documents related to former National Security Advisor and registered foreign agent Michael Flynn s hiring, Spicer took the tried-and-true route of blaming President Obama.Spicer explained that the Trump White House isn t responsible for anything related to Flynn s hiring because the documents were filled out during the Obama administration and those are not documents that the White House would ever possess.
Everything that the White House has been asked to do, the only documents that were made available to [Congress] that they asked for were the ones that the Department of Defense had, Spicer said, explaining that he doesn t feel that the White House has an obligation to provide the information Congress has requested.
How about these calls made where [Flynn] was working during the transition on behalf of a future President Trump?
CBS s Major Garrett asked.
Aren t those things that you should have some responsibility or obligation to provide if you can?
It s a question [of] if you can, Spicer said.
To ask for every call a national security adviser made is pretty outlandish.
Those calls were made on behalf of the Trump transition were they not?
Garrett asked.
Spicer, of course, told him that Trump isn t responsible for anything that happened before January 20 even if it was done by a member of the Trump transition team.
When?
Spicer asked.
We started this administration on Jan. 20.
All the information that they re talking about occurred prior to him being at the White House.
Working for the transition!
Garrett pressed.
Not at the White House!
Spicer snapped.
Everything that is being questioned occurred prior to Jan. 20th.
Trump and his White House are absolutely responsible for Flynn which is not good, as even Hillary Clinton witch hunter, Congressman Jason Chaffetz, admits that Flynn likely committed crimes.Watch this all happen below:Featured image via screengrab