Vladimir Putin is super pissed because Russian media is covering Donald Trump more than him, and he only has himself to blame.Over the course of the election, Putin ordered Russian state media to endorse and positively cover Trump s campaign in an effort to help Trump win against Hillary Clinton.Putin wanted a puppet in the White House, and he basically got one.
After all, Russia is preparing for war in Europe in anticipation of Trump weakening NATO by pulling American support.
Russia has also been getting really aggressive by simulating air attacks on a United States Navy destroyer and they have a spy ship parked really close to our shoreline.
Russia has also deployed cruise missiles in violatio of a treaty.
And if that s not enough, Trump is still expected to lift sanctions placed on Russia.The Kremlin is currently enjoying the fact that Trump has a bunch of pro-Russia staffers in his administration and Russian media loves that fact as well.
So they have continued lavishing Trump with the kind of praise and ego-stroking that American media outlets refuse to provide.But Russian media won t be doing nearly as much now because Putin is reportedly tired of waiting for Trump to do his bidding and he is jealous of the media coverage Trump has been receiving.That s right.
The honeymoon appears to be coming to an end between Trump and Putin, at least when it comes to how much Russian media covers him.According to Bloomberg, In January, Trump received more mentions in the media than Putin, relegating the Russian leader to the No.
2 spot for the first time since he returned to the Kremlin in 2012 after four years as premier, according to Interfax data.
And so Putin has apparently ordered the Russian media to tone down their coverage of Trump so that Putin can get more coverage for himself.
They won t pour buckets of criticism on Trump, they just won t talk about him much, Russian journalist Konstantin von Eggert told Bloomberg.
The fate of Russia-American relations is much less predictable than it was just a few weeks ago.
Indeed, a few weeks ago it looked certain that Trump would be able to get away with helping his buddy Putin take advantage of the United States.
Now that Michael Flynn has busted Trump s connections with Russia wide open and Congress continues to discuss investigating the ties, Putin is not as confident Trump is the puppet he was looking for.But Americans should remain vigilant.
Donald Trump is still in office, and until he is ousted permanently he will continue to be a threat to our national security.
Putin could merely be making it appear like he and Trump are having a spat.
He could be simply working behind the scenes or waiting until Trump s Russia scandal dies down.However, it s still damn hilarious that Putin is jealous of the media coverage his BFF is getting in his own backyard.
Apparently, Putin is an attention-seeking snowflake just like Trump.Featured image credit photo of Donald Trump by Joe Raedle/Getty Images.
Photo of Vladimir Putin by Thierry Chesnot/Getty Images