There was once a time that John Kasich seemed like the only sane, somewhat reasonable Republican candidate in the presidential race, but those days are long gone.
Kasich is starting to sound more and more like Trump and Cruz as time goes on.It was just a few days ago that Kasich said that if women wanted to avoid being raped, they should just not go to parties where there is alcohol.
He of course experienced tons of backlash for that comment, but instead of apologizing and admitting that it was a victim-blaming, insensitive remark, he s doubled down instead.In a Sunday morning interview on CNN s State of the Union, Kasich made an attempt to rectify his controversial comments, and ended up making it much worse.
In trying to explain his misogynistic reasoning, Kasich said that having alcohol at a party makes it more difficult for justice to be rendered for a whole variety of reasons.
Host Dana Bash tried to give Kasich another chance and pressed him further, but the Ohio governor just simply couldn t grasp why his comments would be so controversial or problematic.
Bash was generous and even explained to the presidential hopeful that his comments would discourage women from reporting their assaults if they re told that the presence of alcohol makes their story less valid or believable.
But Kasich once again failed to understand and continued to dig himself into a deeper hole.
He said: Actually, I don t know how anybody would take it that way.
Bash answered, Because it s taken a while to change the stigma of getting people to come out.
Kasich, apparently forgetting that the infamous, tragic Steubenville rape case took place in Ohio, shot back: Dana, I have led the way in the country to fight this and to get justice served in these conditions.
I think even if, in fact, there is alcohol involved, you still have you still can find the perpetrator.
I just don t want justice to be denied because something comes up that a prosecutor looks at it and says, well, I can t figure this thing out.
And no matter what Bash countered back with, Kasich had an equally offensive answer.Certainly, Kasich s speech would be much more effective in preventing sexual assaults if he told potential rapists to avoid alcohol at parties instead of victims.
But, you know, that s just not the GOP s style.
You can watch the baffling interview below: Featured image via Getty Images / Andrew Burton