If there s one thing Donald Trump knows how to do really well, even better than most, it s sell things.
And in this case, that thing isn t real estate or a television show or a book, but rather just himself.
With the phrase Make America Great Again, with no further explanation besides loving guns, hating Mexicans, and lowering taxes, he s gotten a rather large following to support him.Being the salesman that he is, he doesn t care who supports him as long as they do.
He uses simplistic phrases on purpose, because he knows that most of his supporters likely don t have above a third grade reading level.
He plays to the stupid vote, but calls them smart and the most intelligent because, after all, they are voting for him.However, at a recent campaign event in Claremont, New Hampshire, Trump seemed to let it slip that he knows his supporters are an army of loyal idiots.
After reciting poll after poll after poll, which seems to be all these events are, self-congratulatory events for himself, he told the crowd that no one is ever leaving him.
No matter what he says, or how awful he behaves, he knows he has the support of this moronic base.He said: Did you see?
One of the things that came out in the one poll, nobody s ever leaving me.
I could be the worst person in the world, they re not leaving.
Continuing, he said: If I was up here and did some really inappropriate things, my people stay.
I love you people.
I love you.
I love you.
I love you.
I love my people!
They re the most loyal.
And if that wasn t bad enough, he then comes out and says it: I m winning with the smart people, I m winning with the not-so-smart people, too.
I m winning with everything.
With all of this he got cheers and shouts of I love you!
and We love you!
from the crowd of unsuspecting nincompoops.Trump knows exactly what he s doing, which is actually what makes his run for the Oval Office so terrifying.
He plays to the simplistic and imbecilic minded in the nation, and they lap it up with a spoon.
Trump doesn t care that his voters are dumb.
I mean, hell, George W. Bush won in 2004 after 9/11 and starting a war based on lies.
There is definitely a base of voters in this nation who shouldn t be allowed to operate heavy machinery, including a voting machine.
Video/Featured image: YouTube