George Stephanopoulos allowed presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump to phone into Good Morning America on Friday morning only to be grilled for not releasing his tax returns.
Do you believe voters have a right to see your tax returns before they make a final decision?
Stephanopoulos asked.
I don t think they do, Trump replied before claiming that he will gladly release his returns once the IRS completes an audit against him.
Of course, the audit may not be over until after the election, a fact that even Trump conceded despite feigning hope that it will end before November.Stephanopoulos didn t buy that argument, however, pointing out that an audit didn t prevent former President Richard Nixon from releasing his tax returns.
The IRS has made it very clear that an audit is not a bar to public release, Stephanopoulos said.
It s entirely your choice.
President Nixon released his tax returns even though he was under audit and when you were seeking a casino license in Pennsylvania and New Jersey you released your returns to state officials even though you were under audit.
Trump repeated that he will not release his returns until after the audit is complete, which may or may not be completed until after the election, so the audit is a rather convenient excuse for Trump.Trump then erroneously claimed that many presidents have not released their tax returns, and Stephanopoulos didn t let him get away it.
Every single nominee since 1976 has released his tax returns, the ABC host informed Trump.Trump went on to claim that his release of his financials should be enough, but Stephanopoulos noted that such documents fail to show what his tax rate is and how much in taxes he pays.That really set Trump off as he began to complain about having to pay taxes and he admitted that he tries very hard to pay as little in taxes as possible.
As we all know, the reason why Bernie Sanders has been so popular this election season is because one of his goals is to force the wealthy 1 percent to pay their fair share of taxes.Testiness on Trump s part dominated the remaining part of the interview as Trump repeated that he would not release his returns until the audit is complete and claimed that he shouldn t have to release his returns until Hillary Clinton releases nonexistent missing emails.
When pressed further on his returns, Trump said curtly that it s none of your business.
Here s the video via YouTube.But it is Stephanopoulos s business because he is a journalist.
It s also the American people s business because they deserve all the information before going to the polls in November.
Trump can claim all he wants that he doesn t have secret overseas accounts or that he pays low taxes, but the American people won t know if he s lying or not until he releases the returns to the public.
And since Trump is playing this game of hide and seek with his returns, the only conclusion we can assume at this time is that he has something to hide and he is doing everything he can to keep it hidden until after the election.Featured image via screen capture