Her husband s overseas in the military, and she s home working in a local salon.
She s the everyday American woman Hillary claims to be the champion for.
There s only one problem she s doesn t believe that selfish Auntie Hillary should be anywhere the White House Hopeless Hillary Clinton s own family has turned against her and endorsed Donald Trump for president!
In a bombshell world exclusive interview with RadarOnline.com, the only daughter of Bill Clinton s druggie brother, Roger, revealed she s voting for Hillary s Republican rival instead of her selfish aunt!Hairstylist Macy Smit has never met Hillary.
Her father the former first lady s brother-in-law was a deadbeat dad who walked out on her mom when she was pregnant.
Something tells me the Clinton side of the family looks at me and my mother as not good enough, but we re hard-working!
Macy, 25, said from her home in Tampa, Fla.
I support Donald Trump 100 percent!
I have been a Democrat my entire life, but Trump is what we need right now somebody who is going to stand up for us.
I think at this point Hillary just wants it for the history books to be the first woman president for selfish reasons.
Macy works 10 to 12-hour days at a salon, while husband Derrick Smit, 25, is a meteorologist with the U.S. Air Force.
He s on active duty in Kuwait, where he helps coordinate air operations into Iraq.
He was deployed in July and will return in January.
Last year, pregnant Macy suffered heartbreaking tragedy when she lost her baby.
At the time, her husband was deployed and she claims she was abandoned by the Clintons.Macy said, They re not as good as everyone thinks they are.
I went through some very personal things [without their support].
The Clintons are all talk!
Macy s mother Martha, 50, told Radar.
Hillary says she s all about family, but she s got a niece she s never met and never acknowledged.
The Clintons have never helped us out.
According to Macy, she has a distant relationship with her father.
Although they talk regularly, Macy said Roger, 60, constantly makes promises he doesn t keep just like Hillary!
Radar Online