By now, the only people in the world who still think Trump was the target of an assassination on Saturday are his supporters and campaign staff.That was certainly the case on Sunday morning as Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway refused to acknowledge that Austyn Crites was NOT carrying a gun during a Trump rally and was merely trying to hold up an anti-Trump sign.Tapper began by pointing out the facts and then reported that Trump supporter Dan Scavino and one of Trump s sons are retweeting misinformation about the incident in an effort to claim that there actually was a real assassination attempt.
It s not an assassination attempt, Tapper repeated before asking Conway, Should they be spreading this misinformation?
Of course, Conway tried to capitalize on the incident by bragging about how nimble and resilient Trump is, even though Secret Service agents were the ones who got Trump off stage and he retreated from a guy who was just holding up a sign.
To Conway, the guy holding the sign was scary and she proceeded to smear him and ignore the fact that there was no assassination attempt.
It s scary.
All the coverage is usually about our protesters wreaking havoc and making people feel afraid.
And it certainly goes both ways.
I m with Mr. Trump and the Secret Service routinely.
They do an amazing job.
I also want to point out because some people are spreading misinformation about the protester.
He had canvassed for Hillary Clinton and he had donated to her campaign.
So, this is a Democratic plant or operative trying to disrupt our rally.
And I think people saw a nimble resilient Donald Trump who would be nimble and resilient as president as well.
Tapper responded by calling Conway out.
Except it wasn t an assassination attempt.
It was apparently a local voter, a Republican who says he is supporting Hillary Clinton.
He has given money to Hillary Clinton.
He has canvassed for Hillary Clinton.
But he says he s a Republican.
But most importantly, he was not trying to assassinate anyone.
This was not an assassination attempt, but why is your campaign spreading that it was?
That s really remarkable that that s what the storyline is here, Conway whined before trying to bargain with CNN.
Conway offered to stop spreading misinformation, but only if CNN retracts all the storylines, all the headlines, all the breathless predictions of the last two weeks that turned out not to be true that Trump is losing the election.Trump, however, is losing this election and is behind in the polls.
So Tapper laughed at Conway and moved on.Here s the video via YouTube.Kellyanne Conway should be ashamed of herself and she should never be allowed to work again when this election is over.Featured Image: Screenshot