Another Republican woman is telling the GOP to go f*ck themselves because they still support Donald Trump.Melissa Gesing had hoped that her party would condemn and drop their endorsement of Donald Trump entirely after audio emerged of the Republican nominee bragging about groping women.But after the national leader of the organization she belongs to announced their continuing support of the admitted serial groper, Gesing reached her breaking point.National Federation of Republican Women President Carrie Almond made a statement reaffirming the group s unified support of Republican Presidential Nominee Donald J. Trump because thousands of women from all 50 states, from every walk of life, are steadfast in our very clear understanding that Hillary Clinton does not represent us; not as women, not as Americans.
Well, that s not true at all considering Gesing officially and publicly resigned from her position as the president of the Iowa Federation of Republican Women on Tuesday.
Since I cannot support Donald J. Trump for President, nor can I advocate for his election, I feel that I cannot adequately fulfill my duties of my position, Gesing wrote in her resignation letter that she posted on Twitter.
Additionally, I cannot support the National Federation of Republican Women President Carrie Almond s statement that was released yesterday on behalf of Republican women nationally, as I do not support Donald J. Trump This is truly a last resort for me.
I cannot in good conscience lead this organization or look at myself in the mirror each morning if I do not take a stand against the racism, sexism, and hate that Donald J. Trump continues to promote.
Here s the full letter via Twitter.This is incredibly painful for me to do, and I wish our next #IowaFRW president whomever that may be all the best.
#NeverTrump pic.twitter.com/iYnUEQoW64 Melissa Gesing (@melissagesing) October 12, 2016Gesing is not the only Republican woman to rebuke Trump this week.
In fact, a Wisconsin activist who has always defended Republicans against charges of sexism officially left the party entirely in a series of posts on Twitter that made it clear how disgusted she is by the decision of many Republicans to continue supporting Trump despite his lewd remarks about women.
Various men in the movement are writing it off as normal, confirming every stereotype the left has thrown at them, Marybeth Glenn wrote.
So I m done.
I m sooo done.
If you can t stand up for women & unendorse this piece of human garbage, you deserve every charge of sexism thrown at you.
The Republican Party better be prepared for women to punish them by a landslide on November 8th.
Because women are pissed and they WILL remember.Featured Image: Twitter