The organizer of the yesterday s Unite the Right rally was just mobbed as he tried to give a press conference trying to tell the truth of what happened in Charlottesville yesterday.
His side of the story was never told mob rule exists right now The left doesn t want THE TRUTH to come out Jason Kessler rushed away from press conference and eventually brought to police station when his car wasn t reachable pic.twitter.com/JDG1OQ9Hxk Brook Silva-Braga (@Brook) August 13, 2017PROTESTERS CHASED KESSLER AWAY:Shouted down pic.twitter.com/Ijq4Q2kzRK Brook Silva-Braga (@Brook) August 13, 2017Jason Kessler was addressing the media when the surrounding crowd turned nasty:I asked Jason Kessler if he bears any responsibility for the death in #Charlotteville yesterday pic.twitter.com/QIA9jiuczS Brook Silva-Braga (@Brook) August 13, 2017KESSLER TRIED TO TELL THE TRUTH OF WHAT HAPPENED UP TO THE CHAOS THAT S WHAT NEEDS TO BE TOLD!Kessler said he applied and was granted a permit to assemble yesterday, had arranged security and liaised with police for the protest.
But earlier this week, the city ordered Saturday s rally to be relocated out of Emancipation Park to a larger one, further out of the city, citing safety reasons.Kessler on grounds of free speech and on Friday a judge granted a preliminary injunction which allowed the rally of white nationalists and other extremists to take place at its originally planned location downtown.
They rescinded permission, he said.
We fought them in federal court and we beat them in federal court.
(But) it upended all our security arrangements.
He went on to condemn the violence yesterday and said he would like to disavow any folks getting hurt but he was quickly drowned out by the boos and jeers of the crowd.Suddenly the crowd closed in, and police surrounding him, rushed Kessler away and brought him to a nearby police station as a voice was heard over the crowd, shouting We don t want a mob, we don t want a mob, As Kessler was whisked away, many demanded to know why the police were protecting him.As he was led away, he told reporters: I disavow any political violence and what happened yesterday was tragic.
The denial of first amendment rights led to the political violence that happened yesterday.
Get them out of our town, others chanted.So once again the left shuts down the narrative and the truth!
They ve totally hijacked the narrative of what happened too notice how they re skipping over any mention of the two groups who brought the violence into Charlottesville?
No mention of Antifa or BLM?
All are at fault!Read more: DAILY MAIL