As James Bond s nemesis Auric Goldfinger famously observed, Once is happenstance, twice is coincidence.
The third time is enemy action.
On Tuesday evening, three prominent Republicans Senator John McCain, Senator Marco Rubio, and 2012 presidential candidate Mitt Romney endorsed the left-wing media s preferred narrative and embraced the masked thugs of Antifa as heroes.No, not the same.
One side is racist, bigoted, Nazi.
The other opposes racism and bigotry.
Morally different universes.
Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) August 16, 2017Twitter users hit back at Romney, who likely has no idea who Antifa really is and the danger the violent, anti free-speech, Soros-funded poses to Americans:The fact that you view Antifa as moral and acceptable is beyond disgusting.
No wonder you lost resoundingly in your presidential run.
Alex (@SoCal4Trump) August 16, 2017McCain and Romney used almost identical language, bending their knees to the media narrative that only two factions were present in Charlottesville during the awful events of last weekend: white supremacist Nazis and Americans standing up to defy hate and bigotry.
There's no moral equivalency between racists & Americans standing up to defy hate& bigotry.
The President of the United States should say so John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) August 16, 2017Senator John McCain got hammered by this Twitter user for not recognizing the violence Antifa has inflicted on innocent Trump supporters as a way to shut down free speech.
This collage of photos is a not-so-subtle reminder:Here John, u uninformed piece of shit, are the faces of innocent peaceful rally attendees assaulted by Antifa.
Antifa went looking for a war pic.twitter.com/K8fqKkAnH7 TexasStrong.357 (@SonofLiberty357) August 16, 2017As James Bond s nemesis Auric Goldfinger famously observed, Once is happenstance, twice is coincidence.
The third time is enemy action.
On Tuesday evening, three prominent Republicans Senator John McCain, Senator Marco Rubio, and 2012 presidential candidate Mitt Romney endorsed the left-wing media s preferred narrative and embraced the masked thugs of Antifa as heroes.McCain and Romney used almost identical language, bending their knees to the media narrative that only two factions were present in Charlottesville during the awful events of last weekend: white supremacist Nazis and Americans standing up to defy hate and bigotry.
Senator Rubio, who just can t seem to get over his loss to President Trump, took to Twitter to defend the violent Antifa group and condemn President Trump for including them in his condemnation of the violence that took place in Charlottesville:The organizers of events which inspired & led to #charlottesvilleterroristattack are 100% to blame for a number of reasons.
1/6 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 15, 2017They are adherents of an evil ideology which argues certain people are inferior because of race, ethnicity or nation of origin.
2/6 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 15, 2017When entire movement built on anger & hatred towards people different than you,it justifies & ultimately leads to violence against them 3/6 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 15, 2017So, is Marco Rubio condoning the type of violence by Antifa that Trump supporters are met with on a regular basis simply for daring to utter a viewpoint that is in opposition to the #AltLeft?Most people disagree with you, Marco.
These people absolutely deserve blame for their violence.
ANY violence & hate is contemptible pic.twitter.com/fqtomLASmK Steph (@steph93065) August 16, 2017Senator Rubio probably doesn t visit the Antifa website, but if he did, he might have seen this special credit card sized knife that Antifa was selling on their website for their members to use at Trump rallies to stab people they disagree with:These groups today use SAME symbols & same arguments of #Nazi & #KKK, groups responsible for some of worst crimes against humanity ever 4/6 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 15, 2017Mr.
President,you can't allow #WhiteSupremacists to share only part of blame.They support idea which cost nation & world so much pain 5/6 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 15, 2017Republican Rep Steven Smith shared a video with Senator Rubio, who apparently needs visual aids to see why President Trump was unwilling to call the violence in Charlottesville one-sided :Have you seen the video?
No police protection, two violent groups.
Clearly two, with one blocking the road.
How is it one-sided?
pic.twitter.com/0W5CYqPT6M Rep. Steven Smith (@RepStevenSmith) August 16, 2017The #WhiteSupremacy groups will see being assigned only 50% of blame as a win.We can not allow this old evil to be resurrected 6/6 Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) August 15, 2017Rubio s third tweet explicitly endorses violent responses to hate speech, but the last one is the money shot, as Rubio embraces the essence of Whataboutism and agrees with the media that left-wing thuggery is a fact on the Charlottesville ground that must be ignored if we are to properly condemn white nationalism.McCain and Romney are politically irrelevant, but Rubio still has political ambitions.
Imagine the priceless look of surprise on his face when he gets branded a Nazi because he favors pro-growth tax cuts, free-market reforms, or balks at allowing illegal aliens to vote.
He ll be so astounded at the way hate speech is expanded to cover his policy positions, and how the next wave of Antifa thugs justifies a violent response.
Breitbart News