The horrible result of socialized medicine may be seen in the plight of Charlie Gard.
The brain-damaged British baby whose parents recently lost a legal battle to keep him on life support has now tugged at heart strings as far away as the Oval Office.President Trump tweeted out his willingness to lend a hand and in doing so exposed the debate over who should make life-and-death decisions for Charlie to a massive audience.
If we can help little #CharlieGard, as per our friends in the U.K. and the Pope, we would be delighted to do so, Trump wrote.The tweet, which noted a similar call for compassion from Pope Francis on Sunday night, comes just ahead of Trump s second international trip later this week, during which he ll meet with world leaders at the G-20 summit it Germany a conference at which Trump could cross paths with British Prime Minister Theresa May.Trump s tweet also implicitly highlights perceived pitfalls in the British health care system a publicly funded system at a time the U.S. is undergoing yet another debate about medical coverage.Gard s parents have fought the courts to keep their son on life support.
Chris Gard and Connie Yates want to bring Charlie to the U.S. for experimental therapy.
But doctors at the Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children in London, who have been caring for Charlie, were granted permission by a court to turn off his life support.
Though it was expected Charlie could be removed from the essential devices as soon as Friday, the hospital said in a statement it was putting together unspecified plans to give the 11 month old and his parents more time together as a family.
BUT WAIT A MINUTE!
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND A US HOSPITAL ARE NOW SAYING THEY WILL HELP FREE OF CHARGE!DAILY MAIL IS REPORTING SOME GREAT NEWS!Members of the TRUMP administration have spoken to the family in calls facilitated by the British government.
The President is just trying to be helpful if at all possible.
Due to legal issues, we can not confirm the name of doctor or hospital where the baby could be treated in the United States.