One of Trump s biggest supporters just got their ass handed to them for having zero evidence of voter fraud.Donald Trump s lies about voter fraud imploded on Monday as CNN tore apart Kris Kobach, the man Stephen Miller cited when asked if he had evidence to prove Trump s claims.Miller repeatedly claimed that millions of Americans voted illegally in November to explain how Trump lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton.
Miller specifically talked about New Hampshire, claiming that thousands of people from Massachusetts bused in to vote a second time in that state.
Go to New Hampshire, Miller said.
Talk to anybody who s worked in politics there for a long time.
Everybody s aware of the problem in New Hampshire.
Except that many former and current New Hampshire politicians from both parties have criticized Trump s claim.And when ABC host George Stephanopoulos asked Miller for evidence, he merely referred the media to Kansas Secretary of State and Trump supporter Kris Kobach.On Monday, CNN host Kate Bolduan confronted Kobach about Miller s claims.
Miller says, look to you, sir, for the evidence, Bolduan said.
Where is it?
On election day 2016, 6,000 people registered in New Hampshire using an out-of-state driver s license, Kobach claimed in response.
Of those over 6,000, just under 3,000 so just under half used a Massachusetts driver s license.
Now, some of those are going to be legit.
They re going to be people who just moved to New Hampshire but many of those will be out-of-state residents who voted in the state.
What Kobach just said is a mere prediction.
In a courtroom, it would be called conjecture because Kobach is making an opinion based on incomplete information.
You truly do believe that thousands of people came in from Massachusetts to vote in New Hampshire on election day?
Bolduan continued in disbelief.
We will have data at the end of the month [about] how many of those 6,000 people voted in both New Hampshire and in one of the other states, Kobach said, admitting that he actually doesn t have evidence.
He is only promising that he will have evidence at a later time, probably when whatever right-wing organization he is associated with provides their fabricated statistics.With no real evidence to support his claims, Bolduan pounced and slammed Kobach with reality.
Mr. Secretary, wait a second.
Stephen Miller, over the weekend, said thousands did vote illegally.
Definitively saying that this actually happened.
You re saying that there s going to be more data coming at the end of the month.
So, do you have the evidence?
Voter registration does not equal fraudulent votes.
Kobach claimed that 3 million Americans are registered to vote in two states, which isn t illegal.
Of course, Trump adviser Steve Bannon is also registered to vote in two states.Kobach then offered proof of Trump s claim by whining about CNN not covering the nine cases of voter fraud Kansas is prosecuting.
Bolduan easily picked that evidence apart.
You have nine cases, Bolduan said.
Six guilty pleas, one dismissed, two pending.
That s as of January 25th.
Nine cases does not rampant widespread voter fraud make.
A small minority does not make millions and millions of widespread, rampant votes in this country, Bolduan continued.
What Stephen Miller and the president said over the weekend is this is exactly why they lost in New Hampshire.
Not saying they were prospective cases, they were illegal votes.
At that point, Kobach stumbled his way through the remainder of the interview as Bolduan countered his bullshit with facts at every turn.Here s the full smack down via YouTube.Donald Trump s voter fraud claims are a pathetic attempt to stroke his own ego because he can t handle the fact that he lost to a woman and is not a legitimate president.
If he is really so concerned about voter fraud, he should call for a new election immediately.
But he won t because he is full of shit.Featured image via screenshot