This is sad and infuriating.In February, former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich suffered the loss of his father.Despite his dad s death, an insurance agent called to inform Reich that his dad is behind on his car insurance payments.Now, one would think that being informed of the death would not only draw condolences, but also an end to the business at hand considering deceased people can t drive, nor can they pay insurance from the grave.But this auto insurance agent couldn t get the reality of the situation through his thick skull.
He proceeded to try and bully Reich into paying hundreds of dollars and even informed Reich that not paying would affect his father s credit rating.Reich described the phone call on Facebook.
I just got a call from my father s auto insurer, telling me he s behind on his payment.
I explained he died in February.
He still needs to pay for the last two months, said the man from the insurance company.
But he can t pay.
He s deceased, I said.
He owes $348.62, for the period April 24 to June 24, he said.
But he didn t drive then.
He died in February.
No one has driven his car since he died.
Well, someone has to pay or his insurance will be cancelled, and it will hurt his credit rating.
I m sure he d be okay if it s cancelled, I said.
And I don t think he cares about his credit rating.
Are you infuriated yet?Clearly, this insurance agent must be a truly heartless person.
He even became snippy with Reich upon hearing that Reich s father won t care about his credit rating and the conversation continued to go in circles as the insurance agent tried another intimidation tactic and didn t seem to get that his client was dead and no longer needed car insurance.
Are you trying to be smart with me?
asked the man from the insurance company.
No, I m just trying to tell you that my father is deceased and he doesn t need car insurance.
Have you cancelled his car registration?
No, I haven t got around to that.
Well, you should.
If he s deceased, he shouldn t have a registration.
I understand.
Nobody s supposed to have a registration if they re not paying their auto insurance.
Right.
So, are you going to pay the insurance that s due?
I wasn t planning to.
Then it s an illegal car.
But it won t be on the road.
Still illegal.
Sorry.
That could be a problem for him.
He s no longer with us.
I know.
You made that clear.
I m referring to his estate.
I don t see how.
Well, let s say the state of Florida imposes a penalty for having a car registered in his name but no insurance.
And let s say that penalty holds up any legal proceedings in resolving The insurance agent STILL tried to get Reich to pay the insurance, even going so far as to talk about a hypothetical situation in order to force Reich to reach into his pocket and pay for something that was no longer necessary.Frustrated and growing tired of the phone call, Reich asked the insurance vampire who he is supporting for president.
And the answer explains everything.
May I ask you a personal question?
Personal?
Who do you support for President?
For President?
I don t mean to pry.
[chuckling] Oh, no problem, he said.
You have a favorite candidate?
I asked.
As a matter of fact, I do, he said.
And who is it?
That Trump fella.
Really?
Yeah, Trump.
Good man.
No bullshit.
Here s the post via Facebook.Personally, I would have hung up the phone rather than keep repeating myself to the same asshole, but there you have it, folks.
An ignorant insurance agent who tries to bully money out of people even if they are dead.
That sounds exactly like the kind of person who would support Donald Trump.Featured image via Comunicas