There is absolutely no doubt that Republican frontrunner Donald Trump would be an unmitigated disaster if he were elected to serve as president.
There is literally nothing good about him, and with each day that passes he only gets worse.
Lately, the violence at his rallies have been at the forefront of the conversations about the Republican primaries, especially over the last week or so.
But how much brutality has actually been committed in Trump s name?
Well, a new interactive map called the Trump Hate Map shows A LOT of violence has resulted from his bombastic rhetoric.Since last September, America s Voice has been tracking instances where Trump, his staff and his supporters have assaulted or harassed immigrants and Latinos.
As you can imagine, his special brand of xenophobia and racism has caused a lot of white nationalists to feel comfortable with their hate for others.
All you have to do is turn on a Drumpf rally and you can witness firsthand how insane his fanboys and girls are, but the acts of violence extend farther than his events his supporters have hurt random people on the streets, as well.America s Voice writes: We ve seen the proof over the past few weeks.
Trump s xenophobic rhetoric hasn t just pushed his fellow candidates to the right on immigration (in what has become known as the Trump Effect ).
It s gone beyond the political world and injected itself into everyday life In one incident, a Latino and two Muslim students in Kansas were attacked by a man who yelled racial slurs and warned them that Donald Trump was going to be president before punching one of them.His hate has even extended to elementary schools!
A mother in Fairfax County, Virginia posted on Facebook and said that her third-grade son was taunted in school by two of his classmates.
Apparently the children were spewing nonsense about immigrants that they d heard Trump say.Those are just two of the many incidents the organization found.
The billionaire likens himself to some great unifier, but he is clearly nothing but a divisive asshole who will absolutely destroy this country if he were elected.
Our country would probably look like it did in the 1960s with race riots all over the place.
Thankfully, there is little chance of this man ever sitting in the Oval Office, but this map proves that it is more important than ever that Democrats put their differences aside after the primary and unite behind whoever our candidate is.Check out the Trump Hate Map:Featured image via screenshot