Failed former presidential candidate Ben Carson is back and crazier than ever.
The retired neurosurgeon who was once leading the Republican party before a severe case of dishonesty and ridiculous nonsense-spewing habit ruined his campaign is once again making headlines, for an even more awful reason than before.On Friday, Carson announced his endorsement of Republican front-runner Donald Trump at a press conference, saying that the two men had buried the hatchet and that Trump was the voice of the people to be heard.
Almost as ridiculous as that endorsement is Carson s inspiration for such a horrible decision he says he was encouraged to support the disgraced candidate after a so-called vision from God.During the press conference, a reporter made the mistake of asking Carson just how much God played a part in his choice to stand behind Trump.
The reporter asked, You said throughout your life God has led you to your most important decisions.
This truly is an important decision.
Did God lead you to Donald Trump?
Carson said that God had given him several signs once of which included a vision from an unnamed friend.
I prayed about it a lot, and I got a lot of indications, people calling me that I haven t talked to for a long time saying, I had this dream about you and Donald Trump I mean, just amazing things As if Carson couldn t make himself seem any crazier, he dialed things up when he started speaking about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, stating that she is of the devil.
Hillary Clinton was a great friend of Saul Alinsky.
On a first-name basis with him as a student.
He wrote the book Rules for Radicals and if you haven t read it, I recommend that you read it, and see the kinds of things that are recommended to change, fundamentally change, this nation from the great success we have to a socialist country.
And the dedication page of that book says, dedicated to Lucifer, the original radical who gained his own kingdom.
I don t want anything to do with anything like that.
You can watch this outrageous part of the conference unfold below:Carson also said that he was afraid Hillary Clinton would destroy America a hilarious statement considering that most of the GOP is currently freaking out because Trump is leading the party and threatening to do just that.
This endorsement from Carson is even more puzzling because just two weeks ago, Carson said that Super Tuesday voters were not quite that dense to help Trump become the nominee.
The former candidate also said that voting for Trump was a very very bad mistake.
Divine intervention is apparently a powerful thing and we now have Carson s visions to thank for the 700,000-person donor list that Trump just inherited with this endorsement.Featured image via Ben Carson Facebook page