Last night at a rally in San Diego, California, actress Rosario Dawson gave the best introduction speech for Bernie Sanders since rapper Killer Mike introduced him in Atlanta several months ago.
Ms. Dawson, who has appeared in movies such as Sin City, Clerks II, Death Proof, Grindhouse, and Men In Black II, ripped into the DNC and emphasized how important the stakes are in this presidential race.
I am so happy that you re here, Ms. Dawson told the crowd of over 7,000 Bernie Sanders supporters.
Unfortunately the mass media said, don t even bother, but I m glad you showed them what s up.
Ms. Dawson is referring to the overwhelming lack of media coverage Bernie Sanders has received from mainstream media outlets compared to Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
A report on the first eleven months of 2015 conducted by the Tyndall Report found Hillary Clinton received 113 minutes of coverage on CBS, ABC, and NBC nightly news broadcasts, with an additional 88 minutes dedicated to controversies surrounding her involvement in Benghazi and her private e-mail server as Secretary of State, which helped fuel her Democratic support base.In contrast, Senator Bernie Sanders received only ten minutes of coverage.
While the mainstream media is partially to blame for the rise of Donald Trump as it has overwhelmingly focused on him so much that he doesn t even need to spend money on campaign marketing and advertising, they are also partially to blame for Hillary Clinton s victories with age demographics who receive the majority of their news from mainstream media (i.e.
baby boomers).
The youth has been on the right side of history on every issue.
They talked about those hippie college kids when they were protesting against Vietnam.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who Bernie Sanders walked with, couldn t have done what he had done if it wasn t for high school students who said, I m not afraid to do a sit-in.
They didn t listen to us when we said no on the bailout.
They didn t talk about how beautiful and remarkable it was when people around the World marched for peace before the Iraq War, added Ms. Dawson.She concluded the Bernie Sanders movement isn t about Democrats versus Republicans, its about the 99 percent rising up and saying enough is enough to the one percent.
The Democratic Party, we haven t left them, they left us.
This is an opportunity to turn the tide and change history.
Do we really want someone who condoned mass incarceration?
Who thinks the death penalty is OK?
Who hesitates on environmental injustices and issues?
Who thinks that regime change is an idea for foreign policy?
No.
What we need is bold leadership from a great leader whose time has come.
That leader is Senator Bernie Sanders.
Featured image courtesy of Flickr