Rush Limbaugh nails it in the transcript below but the most disturbing part of the roadblocking of Trump is that the refugee resettlement program is to be funded/ expanded by Congress for fiscal year 2018 and there is a desire for over 75,000 refugees from mostly Muslim countries THIS year:Republicans in Congress funded the US Refugee Admissions Program at a level for 75,000 refugees to be admitted by September 30th (the last day of this fiscal year):U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services has begun to expand its interview schedule in the 3rd quarter of the fiscal year, public affairs officer Marilu Cabrera told HuffPost in a statement on Friday.
The Department of Homeland Security is working with the State Department to plan for a further expansion through the end of fiscal year 2017, she added.We ve immigrated mostly Muslim refugees since 9/11!Pew: More Muslims Than Christians by 2100Why are we continuing down this path when it s a better solution to keep them in safe zones in their own country?
This solution was even proposed by President Trump!
Small towns across America are being forever changed by the HUGE influx of Muslims.
Please see our latest on this below the Rush Limbaugh transcript.Rush Limbaugh let it rip on the Republicans yesterday with his concern that it s the Republicans who are roadblocking the Trump agenda:Transcript:I don t understand how people don t get that it s not just the Democrats in Washington that are roadblocking Trump.
I mentioned it earlier.Mitch McConnell says he can t see a way to getting 50 votes for the House Obamacare repeal bill?
Now, stop and think here, folks.
Back when the only element that we had was the House of Representatives and Republican voters were constantly saying, Why aren t you doing more to stop Obama?
Why aren t you trying to do something to stop Obamacare?
The answer was always, Well, all we ve got is the House.
W-w-we can t get anything through the Senate because the Democrats own the Senate.
Obama s in the White House!
He ll veto anything if it did make it there.
So voters gave Republicans the Senate, and Mitch McConnell said, Well, the first thing you have to know is it takes 60 votes to do anything in the Senate, and we don t have 60 votes.
We only have 52.
And then he would add, Plus, as long as Obama s still in the White House, all this is academic anyway.
He s gonna veto whatever we pass.
So we gave the Republicans the White House and elected Trump.
Now the latest story There s a Wall Street Journal story.
You know, I had this sort of cram last night after getting back from being away two days.I saw a Wall Street Journal story about how the Republicans in the House, they just can t!
It s just impossible.
They re pulling their hair out.
They don t know what to do.
They just can t find a way to cut any taxes.
Because every time they cut a tax over here, they have to find a way to make the money up over there, and they just can t. They re looking at all these various tax cuts proposals and they said, I I I don t know how we re gonna pay for all this.
So the Republican Party, which is ostensibly the party of the president and they owe their majority to him, particularly the Senate are roadblocking Donald Trump more than the Democrats are, because the Democrats cannot.
The Democrats don t have the votes in the House to stop Trump.
The Democrats don t have the votes in the Senate to stop Trump, although there is the 60-vote cloture requirement.
It s not the Democrats standing up and saying, We are not gonna help.
We re gonna stand in the way of any foolish tax cut you propose.
It s the Republicans standing up and saying, I just don t see how we re there s no room here.
I don t know how we re gonna lower rates when you have this exemption over here and you have this exemption there.
And I just read this stuff and I shake my head.
They don t want to cut taxes.
Either they don t want to cut taxes institutionally, they don t want to cut taxes economically, or they just don t want to do the heavy lifting.
I don t know what it is.
My guess is they don t want to help Trump.Now, you would think Trump figures this out, but he doesn t give any evidence of it.
Like he tweeted something: U.S. Senate should switch to 51 votes immediately and get health care and tax cuts approved fast and easy.
Democrats would do it no doubt.
He s talking about getting rid of the 60-vote requirement to shut off debate and just go to simple majority on every bill.
Does he know that it s the Republicans that are the roadblock here?
He has to know, and certainly if he s got people around him who know.Now, I could understand if he doesn t want to go public and start an internecine battle between the White House and the Republicans on Capitol Hill, you know, keep that for back channels and behind the scenes.
The Wall Street Journal had a picture of the chairman of Ways and Means Committee and Paul Ryan standing there and all these guys and the headline: Republicans Find Yet Another Way to Cut Taxes on the Rich.
They just don t see how they can do it.
It s incredible.
It really is incredible.
Because, of course, there s a way.
They just don t want to do it.
I think it s all establishment, all the time anti-Trump, throw the media in there as well.
But even in the middle of this I can tell you almost assuredly that Trump is not off his game.
He s not despondent.
He s not sitting there worried about why all these people hate him.
He s not worried about all that.
He s just head down and moving ahead full speed as he can, not reacting or responding to all this stuff in the media, except when he tweets.REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT CONTINUES!
Congress approved funding for the refugee resettlement program!
This is NOT good news and is shocking to see that they are keeping the pipeline going on bringing mostly Muslim refugees to America.
You have to ask why they continue to ignore this failed boondoggle that the American taxpayers fund each year:It is because most of them work for their big business donors and the Chamber of Commerce to guarantee a steady supply of cheap immigrant labor!
Adding insult to injury, your tax dollars support refugee families through the welfare system because wages are too low!
You pay for the importation of the labor and for the laborers support once here!It is really quite a difficult obstacle for us (who wish to see the USRAP reformed) to overcome big businesses and global corporations pushing cheap labor in conjunction with so-called religious charities (paid by taxpayers!)
claiming this is all about humanitarianism while essentially acting as head hunters for big business.Here s HuffPo s latest on the pipeline flowing:The United States appears to be resuming its longstanding efforts to resettle refugees after the program was derailed and almost completely upended abroad for several months.U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services has begun to expand its interview schedule in the 3rd quarter of the fiscal year, public affairs officer Marilu Cabrera told HuffPost in a statement on Friday.
The Department of Homeland Security is working with the State Department to plan for a further expansion through the end of fiscal year 2017, she added.