During a discussion about sexual harassment charges against FOX News host Bill O Reilly, blogger Debbie Schlussel was asked by radio host Pat Cambell of 1170 Talk Radio if anyone at FOX News made her feel uncomfortable ?
or if sexual advances were made on her?
Campbell asked: What do you make of this whole thing?
Schlussel responded, Well, only by Sean Hannity, not by Bill O Reilly.
Campbell stopped her Whoa Wait, wait, wait!
Say that again.
Schussed responded: Only by Sean Hannity, not Bill O Reilly.
Although listeners get the sense the whole interview was a set-up, Campbell appears shocked by this new sexual harassment allegation being made against Sean Hannity and asks again, Sean Hannity what?
He hit on you, or he made you feel uncomfortable?
to which Schlussel responded, Yeah.
She then went on to explain her so-called experience with Hannity.After she finished her story where she claims Hannity asked her to come back to his hotel, and that she received horrible treatment from him and his executive producer after she declined his offer, She went on to claim that he never booked her on his show again and that she got a very weird feeling about it .
This kind of stuff very uh all over the place at Fox News and with anything that has to do with Sean Hannity.
She then went on to make an infer that Hannity s executive producer Jill Vitale quit the show because Sean Hannity wanted something from her and she wouldn t give it.
Schlussel claimed that everyone should start looking into it because, it s not an above-board story.
Here is Jill Vitale s response to the LIE Schlussel told radio host Pat Campbell, when she inferred the reason Vitale left Hannity s radio show had to do with Hannity s inappropriate sexual behavior:I left because I had kids!
https://t.co/Ek81EVGkrH Jill Vitale (@Flirtyflipper) April 23, 2017Sean Hannity used to tease Vitale about being a liberal on his show, which makes her tweet defending Bill O Reilly very interesting:Bill O'Reilly's out.
Who's next?
Jill Vitale (@Flirtyflipper) April 19, 2017Vitale also advocates for O Reilly here where she tweets that NYC s top radio talk show should hire O Reilly.
She doesn t exactly sound like a woman who left Sean Hannity s show because she was victim of sexual harassment:It'd be a smart decision for @77WABCradio to hire him!
https://t.co/kOiG93QC7K Jill Vitale (@Flirtyflipper) April 20, 2017Schussed continued to make more accusations during her interview: And it s funny because I have a friend that s a radio host in a different city and, um that used to work for Rush Limbaugh.
And whenever Sean Hannity would take about Jon Edwards and his love child, he would always call me and we would laugh about it because he could ve had a love child too, given that with some of the stuff we ve heard about him and some of the stuff I know about him.
Schlussel went on to make another wild claim about Hannity, calling him a pimp for Roger Ailes and a Fixer for Bill O Reilly.
Debbie Schlussel, a former Fox News guest, appeared on a local radio show on Friday and recounted an incident where Sean Hannity purportedly asked her to a hotel, and when she rebuffed his advances, she claims, she was ostracized by the network star.
The story has since gone viral garnering headlines like Sean Hannity Accused of Sexually Harassing Fox News Guest in publications like The Daily Beast and The Huffington Post.
Now, in an interview with LawNewz.com on Monday morning, Schlussel is denying that she was ever sexually harassed by Sean Hannity.
While Schlussel stands by her description of the incident, Schlussel told us that she doesn t believe what happened between the two amounted to sexual harassment by any legal definition.
I would never accuse him of that.
Sexual harassment has a special meaning under the law, and I would never accuse him of that, Schlussel, an attorney herself, said.
Schlussel said the interaction happened in the early 2000 s when Hannity was in Detroit taping a show.
He tried to get me to go back to the hotel after the show after he and his executive producer Bill Shine treated me horribly, she said on the radio program.
Schlussel later clarified that it wasn t his hotel room, but rather his hotel.
She told LawNewz.com that she did go on the show following the incident, but after that was banned from Fox News.
I never thought I was sexually harassed by Sean Hannity, I thought he was weird and creepy not someone I liked, Schlussel said.Following the radio interview on Friday, Hannity issued a strongly worded statement denying Schlussel s claims saying he plans to take legal action against Schlussel for possible libel.
LET ME BE CLEAR THE COMMENTS ABOUT ME ON A RADIO SHOW THIS WEEK by this individual ARE 100% false and a complete fabrication, Hannity said in a statement obtained by LawNewz.com.
This individual is a serial harasser who has been lying about me for well over a decade.
The individual has a history of making provably false statements against me in an effort to slander, smear and besmirch my reputation.
The individual has not just slandered me over the years but many people who this individual disagrees with.
Schlussel responded to Hannity s legal threats, telling LawNewz.com she believed they were laughable, and that she is also contemplating countersuing him based on his statements on Sunday in which he called her a serial harasser.
It s defamatory, Schussel said, Everything I said was true, and truth is an absolute bar to defamation.
He on the other hand has a murky record on truth.
The accuser has a history of making allegations against Hannity.
Back in 2010, Schlussel, who Gawker claimed at the time was a crazy birther blogger, wrote a blog post claiming that the Freedom Alliance, a war veteran charity, which is supported by Hannity, was skimming donations, and was all a huge scam.
According to a 2010 letter obtained by LawNewz.com, Thomas Kilgannon, the charity s founder and president, fired back in a note to donors: the blog posting accuses our friend Sean Hannity of personally benefiting from Freedom Alliance.
This is FALSE.
Freedom Alliance has never provided planes, hotels, cars, limos, or anything else to Sean.
Sean gets nothing from Freedom Alliance except our gratitude for his personal generosity and for all he has done to help the troops and our organization.
Hannity has reportedly donated more than a million dollars to the charity over the last several years.
LawzNewz