With Donald Trump s latest primary victory in Indiana, he s all but secured the Republican nomination for president and can be considered the presumptive nominee.
What sealed the deal was also the fact that Ted Cruz suspended his campaign and will no longer be seeking the nomination.
And with Kasich not even close behind in delegates, it s pretty much a sure thing for The Donald.Taking to social media after Trump s victory and presumed nomination was Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).
She did not mince words, and got deadly serious letting us all know that it s on us to make sure Donald Trump doesn t get anywhere near the Oval Office.Warren wrote on Facebook: Donald Trump is now the leader of the Republican Party.
It s real he is one step away from the White House.
Here s what else is real:Trump has built his campaign on racism, sexism, and xenophobia.
There s more enthusiasm for him among leaders of the KKK than leaders of the political party he now controls.He incites supporters to violence, praises Putin, and, according to a columnist who recently interviewed him, is cool with being called an authoritarian and doesn t mind associations with history s worst dictators.He attacks veterans like John McCain who were captured and puts our servicemembers at risk by cheerleading illegal torture.
In a world with ISIS militants and leaders like North Korean strongman Kim Jong-Un conducting nuclear tests, he surrounds himself with a foreign policy team that has been called a collection of charlatans, and puts out contradictory and nonsensical national security ideas one expert recently called incoherent and truly bizarre.
What happens next will test the character for all of us Republican, Democrat, and Independent.
It will determine whether we move forward as one nation or splinter at the hands of one man s narcissism and divisiveness.
I know which side I m on, and I m going to fight my heart out to make sure Donald Trump s toxic stew of hatred and insecurity never reaches the White House.
And reiterated her point on Twitter shortly after.I'm going to fight my heart out to make sure @realDonaldTrump s toxic stew of hatred & insecurity never reaches the White House.
Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) May 4, 2016Now it s up to us to make sure Donald Trump never becomes president.
Which side are you on?No matter who vote blue.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images