President Obama visited Jakarta, where the normally staid and reasoned statesman gave a blistering assessment of the Trump administration and unleashed the birthers all over again.Obama is clearly angry at the fact that Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate agreement and told an audience in Indonesia that the U.S. temporarily has no leadership.Touting one of his cornerstone achievements while in office, he said: In Paris, we came together around the most ambitious agreement in history about climate change.
An agreement that even with the temporary absence of American leadership, can still give our children a fighting chance .Source: IndependentIf you recall, Obama spent some of his childhood in the largely Muslim Indonesia, a fact that was central to the birther movement, which was spearheaded by none other than Donald Trump.
You can be sure that Obama knew exactly what the birthers would do with his visit to Indonesia and especially with his criticism of Trump and it s hard to imagine it s not completely intentional anything to bring more attention to climate change.There s a certain irony to Obama pulling this crap in Indonesia He needs to just retire while we glory in destroying his legacy.
#MAGA https://t.co/DDMKrEDqrE Linda Suhler, Ph.D. (@LindaSuhler) July 1, 2017Obama in Indonesia, the world s most populous Muslim-majority country gives speech criticizing POTUS Trump.
Obama is a #traitor to the USA!
pic.twitter.com/x90SVJ7eJK Glenn Quagmire (@marklar1969) July 1, 2017Actually, a traitor would be if the sitting president is actively colluding with Russia.He s a Muslim full of hate.
He never even liked this Country.
I knew it when he wouldn t put his hand on the Bible to be sworn in.
Connie Cryan (@ccryan41) July 3, 2017I was so POed by this creep attacking USA forgot he was in his childhood home talking to family & friends.
Thanks for reminding me, Thomas P Kennedy III (@ThomasPKennedy3) July 3, 2017Obama Spreading Racism & intolerance in Indonesia !
America s future does involve Strong People ,who learned from Obama s misguiding s !
??
pic.twitter.com/4ZvUgTIoNR Joey D (@Bahamajoe0) July 2, 2017Obama is trying to spark a coup from Indonesia just before Independence Day.
Vladimir Lenin would be very proud of him.
The Daily POTUS (@redalertnow) July 3, 2017Not really sure any of those words belong together.Obama in Indonesia, majority Muslim, for 4th weekend, just being himself & blasting Americans for being TOO Patriotic ?
?while praising Islam pic.twitter.com/x6984u5rIW Piper Covfefe (@PiperSul) July 3, 2017Oh, there he is!
On that side of the world now.
Obama s back home again in Indonesia https://t.co/gyXNceW4xz Andrew Malcolm (@AHMalcolm) June 28, 2017Obama also argued against nationalism, which World Net Daily called patriotism.
With his friends in Jakarta IndonesiaNot surprised #Traitor #Obama is putting down #Patriotism on #IndependenceDayhttps://t.co/tQrLzCnCWx Thomas P Kennedy III (@ThomasPKennedy3) July 3, 2017While Trump voters are giddy at once again being able to pull out the birther card, the real joke is on them and on Trump.
Trump is unraveling through his Twitter feed.
Obama knows that Trump will respond in the least presidential way possible leaving the administration a bit more hobbled after each tweet.