If anybody knows when a president is qualified for impeachment, it s David Gergen.After all, he worked in the Nixon Administration.Donald Trump s Russia scandal has gotten even bigger over the last week.
Just a day after firing FBI Director James Comey, Trump met with Russian officials in the Oval Office and leaked highly classified information and compromised the source of that intelligence and our own national security.And now, there s a memo written by Comey noting that Trump asked him to drop the Russia investigation.Interestingly enough, it s the memo that could end up bringing Trump down.You see, asking the head of a federal agency to drop an investigation and then firing that person later on for refusing to do so is the very definition of obstruction of justice and impeding an investigation.As it turns out, obstruction of justice is what led to impeachment proceedings against former President Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal.Republican analyst David Gergen delivered that explanation during a segment on CNN on Tuesday.When Anderson Cooper asked Gergen to weigh in, the longtime Republican said that Trump has entered impeachment territory.
I was in the Nixon Administration as you know and I thought after watching the Clinton impeachment, I thought I would never see another one, Gergen began.
But I think we re in impeachment territory for the first time.
The obstruction of justice was the number one charge against Nixon that brought him down.
Obstruction of justice was the number one charge against Bill Clinton, Gergen continued.
It looks like he was trying to impede the investigation.
He was using his power to do that, and when James Comey didn t go along with him, when he wasn t his boy, he fired him This is of enormous consequence for his presidency.
Gergen then concluded that all the bombshells dropped over the last week, including Comey s firing, sharing classified intelligence with the Russians, and the revelation that Trump asked Comey to drop the investigation are causing Trump s presidency to unravel.
What we see is a presidency that s starting to come apart, Gergen said.Here s the video via YouTube.It is now clear that Trump fired Comey because he refused to drop the investigation.
That is obstruction of justice and should result in Trump being impeached.
Of course, Republicans in Congress have no interest in impeaching Trump.
That would require having the courage and a soul.Featured Image: Screenshot