A Louisville, Kentucky Metro Corrections judge was outraged when jail officials dragged a female, African-American inmate before her.
The woman was not wearing a jail jumpsuit, and appeared to not be wearing any pants, period.
Speaking of those, the inmate says she was denied feminine hygiene products, as well.
What the hell is going on?
a clearly exasperated Judge Amber Wolf demanded upon seeing the woman, whose attorney explained that jailers refused to give her pants and any kind of hygiene products that she needed specifically feminine hygiene products.
This is outrageous; is this for real?
the judge asked, wondering if she was in the Twilight Zone.
This can t wait, Wolf said as she pulled out her phone and angrily made a phone call demanding that someone come explain to her why the woman was not given pants.
What the hell is going on?
Wolf said into the phone.
I m holding her here until she is dressed appropriately to go back to jail.
This is outrageous.
She then demanded that court staff find anything, I don t care what it is that the woman could use to cover herself.Jail officials say that the woman was wearing athletic shorts, the same ones she was wearing when she was arrested three days prior, when she made her court appearance.
In other words, she was forced to wear dirty clothing for multiple days in a row.
This was their defense.
On top of that, jail spokesman Steve Durham says that it is standard practice to put inmates through this sort of dehumanizing treatment: This is pretty standard that when individuals are arrested, they remain in the clothing that they ve been arrested in, Especially for the first 72 hours.
But Metro Corrections Deputy Director Dwayne Clark, who brought the defendant pants, says that this was completely improper.
Dressed like she was, she should have been changed into a jumpsuit, he said.
I gotta look into why she wasn t. Wolf released the woman, who was put through all this for failing to complete a diversion program after a years-old shoplifting charge, on time served with a $100 fine, saying that the jail also dropped the ball by holding her for more than a day.
This is not normal.
I ve never seen this happen, Wolf told the woman, describing her treatment as completely inhumane.
I m sorry you had to go through this, the judge said.Watch footage of this badass in a robe standing up for someone s basic human rights below:WDRB 41 Louisville NewsFeatured image via screengrab