Conservative voters should definitely do this.A Fox News host finally came up with a good idea that would truly make America great again.During Fox and Friends on Tuesday, the show s newest host Ainsley Earhardt suggested that conservative Christians vote via prayer and let God decide who the next president will be.Religious nut Kirk Cameron s equally super religious sister Candace Cameron Bure joined the show as a guest and was asked her opinion on how to get Republicans to unite behind a single candidate.Current GOP frontrunner Donald Trump is in the middle of a fight with Ted Cruz over the Republican nomination which has split party extremists while alienating moderates.
I don t know what it s going to take, Bure said after conceding that she is NOT a political expert.
But I m an American and I hold conservative values, and I think at the end of the day, I realize I put my faith in Jesus Christ, not in any one person.
Of course, Jesus is not a candidate for president but Bure promised to pray for whoever wins anyway.
Whoever becomes our candidate, our nominee and eventually our president, I will pray for them and support that they make the best decisions for our country, she continued.Earhardt, who replaced Elisabeth Hasselbeck on the panel when the latter stepped down in 2015, then suggested the idea that conservatives should just pray and let God decide who the nominee will be.
As in, they should pray their votes into the ballot box and see if God counts them himself and whispers the name of the winner into the ear of the people who are supposed to count the votes.
I know your faith is important to you as it is to many of us.
Do you feel like in this election, we just pray about it and give it to God?
And God s going to pick the right candidate?
Bure balked at the suggestion and urged conservatives to physically vote at the ballot box for the candidate of their choice.Here s the video via YouTube.But Earhardt s idea should be given a fair chance by conservatives to work, especially if they really believe in the power of prayer and God s will.
That s why they should sit at home on November 8th and just pray their vote to God by repeating the name of whichever Republican ends up on the ballot.
Not only would conservatives be leaving the fate of the election in God s hands, they wouldn t have to stand in the incredibly long lines their Republican legislatures created by cutting voting hours and polling places.And when the Democrat wins, conservatives should concede that God has spoken and stop whining for at least the next four years while the chosen one does what is best for the American people even if Republicans don t like it.Featured image via screenshot