Charlie Daniels has been a voice of reason during the 8 looong years of Obama.
He is full of common sense and patriotism.
He gets America!
When it comes to gun rights he stand up and is unafraid to speak out.
Here s his fearless attempt to tell the truth about a recent Billboard gun control push: Country music legend Charlie Daniels dismissed Billboard s recent gun control push as a farce and said the musicians who signed the publication s letter to Congress don t know anything about guns.
200 musicians Jackson Browne, Cher, Billy Joel, John Mellencamp, and Barbara Streisand all signed Billboard s letter demanding Congress take action on gun control in the wake of the Orlando terror attack.
Daniels did not hesitant to assure fans that he strongly opposes the letter and the political agenda behind it.In an interview with FOX411, Daniels said:This is the biggest farce going on.
It s just political.
I don t give a damn who signed that thing on Billboard.
They don t shoot guns.
They don t know anything about [guns].
What they do know is what they think is the popular opinion and I guarantee you, Orlando is just one guy.
Wait until there are five or six of them.HERE S CHARLIE DANIELS ON THE ORLANDO TERROR ATTACK:I fear that the recent attack on the nightclub in Orlando, Florida signals a new direction in America s struggle with radical Islamic terror, and something that our president has neither the stomach nor the motivation to deal with.The lone wolf method of terror requires neither a trip abroad to an ISIS training camp nor extensive instruction about how to build and detonate sophisticated explosive devices.
It just requires a martyr mentality, an adequate weapon and the willingness to commit mass murder.Our president s first reaction is, of course, more gun control, as if passing more gun laws that would effect only the law abiding citizens would actually take the guns out of the hands of the terrorists.
Dream on, Mr. President.Omar Mateen should have never been able to purchase a gun and if the government agencies that are supposed to protect us from such things had not grown so politically correct, he would not have been able to purchase one legally.He had been on the FBI s radar not once but twice and because they could find no concrete evidence to charge him, they had to drop him from the list, something that should never have happened, not when it comes to terrorism, because where there is smoke there is fire, or at least is likely to be at some time in the future and is at least worth keeping a running tally of anyone suspected of being involved in terrorist activity.One has to look no farther than Chicago, a city with the toughest gun laws in the nation, where all the guns are owned by the bad guys, where law abiding citizen cannot even own one for protection, yet the gun violence statistics are outrageous and getting worse every day.Shot and killed so far this year 266Wounded by gunshot this year 1,477Total homicides 297You could say that Chicago is a microcosm of what the whole country would be like if the anti-gun crowd had their way and took away everybody s guns; families defending themselves against assault rifles with sticks and rocks.The awful truth is that the new mode of terrorism is basically urban warfare and now that ISIS has officially declared war on the Western World and we re left with a president whose weapon of choice is a bunch of placating slogans and a worn out old olive branch, it s more important than ever for Americans to bear at least some of the responsibility for defending themselves and their families.To listen to the media one would think that there were no gun laws at all in this country while there are enough laws in place to paper the south wall of the Grand Canyon and buying a gun legally requires filling out long forms and background checks, and let s not forget, the strict gun laws in Paris did nothing to prevent 89 people from being gunned down by terrorists in a theater late last year.
.And therein lies the problem, most terrorists, gang members and various and sundry other criminals don t even try to buy their guns legally, they buy weapons out of the trunk of a car or a room in some cheap hotel, no background checks, no paper work, no way to prove that the gun is in their possession.Does anybody in their right mind not believe that if local police forces would actually have the backing and the protection of City Hall and have their parameters widened that they could not take the troublemakers and their illegal guns off the street?But all it takes is a look at the recent happenings in Baltimore to see why police are reticent to take that route.Is there anybody who thinks that given the go ahead and the backing of the White House and Congress that our federal agencies could not identify and arrest illegal gun dealers and root out terrorist cells and individuals.Of course it would take profiling, going into neighborhoods and places of worship or wherever the trail leads and Obama had rather see the Mississippi River dry up than to allow that.
But I predict the day will come when the American public will have enough and go against presidents, the ACLU and every other obstacle that stands in the way of their protection.If Obama really wanted to do something about the distribution of illegal guns he would unseal the records on Fast and Furious and make Eric Holder stand trial.Then he would make it his business to clean up Chicago and all the other American cities where thugs with illegally purchased guns make life dangerous for decent folk.A little cowboy logic would work wonders in this white house, identify the real problem and rip it out by the roots.Pray for our troops and the peace of Jerusalem.What do you think?God Bless AmericaCharlie DanielsDaniels is pointing out something that all gun owners must recognize the gun control push that followed Orlando was nothing compared to the push that will come after five or six Orlando-style attacks.In November 2015, Breitbart News warned readers that Democrats and their surrogates in the media including those in Hollywood would use the aftermath of Paris-style attacks in the U.S. to justify any number of gun controls, including expanded background checks, the abolition of private gun sales and licensing requirements for gun owners.
We got a taste of this in the last nine days but, as Daniels points out, more is to come if musicians and celebrities continue to view gun control as a way to be part of popular opinion.
Daniels stressed that the knee-jerk reach for more gun control is all wrong.
He said musicians who react this way should also react to drunk driving by seeking to ban cars instead of drunk drivers, if they want to be consistent.He put it this way: It s like taking cars away to stop car wrecks.
It s the drunk drivers that are the problem.
You ll clean it up by taking the bad drivers off of the road.
Via: Breitbart