As crunch time nears and states are having their primary contests, the Clinton campaign is wasting no time in getting further ahead than the Republicans.In a new report detailed by Politico, Hillary Clinton and her campaign are setting course to raise over $1 billion to unseat vulnerable House and Senate Republicans, with the aim of knocking off 10 to 25 House seats from Republicans and taking back the Senate.Hillary Clinton will raise $1 billion for Democrats and the party will train some of their efforts and that money on defeating House and Senate Republicans.
Party leaders privately concede that the Senate could be lost either way.
But senior House Republicans say they re in good shape across the country, and see no evidence that the control of the chamber is in playRepublicans are especially antsy at these revelations, considering the Republican National Committee fell almost $10 million short in their July fundraising predications (they only conjured up $27 million).
In that same month, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the fundraising arm of the Democratic National Committee, raised over $35 million (not including the total $90 million in joint fundraising with Clinton), and has raised almost $20 million more than the RNC for the 2016 fiscal year so far.In contrast, Trump had a very good month for fundraising.
Counter that with the RNC s pathetic monthly numbers, the money speaks for itself: the GOP is putting its trust (and money) in Trump and Trump alone.So while Trump is hurting down-ballot candidates and their efforts for re-election, Clinton is set to raise unprecedented amounts of money for the Democrats, all while having her own campaign to fund.Back in May 2015, Politico reported that Clinton s campaign sought to raise over $2 billion by the time the November general election rolled around.
Considering the Clinton campaign has raised, per OpenSecrets, $375 million for her own personal campaign, $100 million in 2015 for down-ballot candidates in 2015, and over $60 million through the summer of 2016 (coupled with the goal of $1 billion by November), that leaves the campaign roughly $465 million off target.Still, the Clinton machine is dominating Republicans in fundraising, not just for the presidential candidate, but for everyone else involved.Clinton is serious about getting stuff done she knows her policies will be pie-in-the-sky without support from Congress.
So what does she do?
She raises more money for other Democrats than she does for herself.
Trump, on the other hand, hoards the money for himself while he s a billionaire.
See how that concentration of wealth screws everyone over, Republicans?
Ironic, isn t it.Featured image Justin Sullivan/Getty Images