Despite the fact that MSNBC s Morning Joe s main host, Joe Scarborough, is an avowed Republican, the show s hosts and guests from across the political spectrum can t stand Donald Trump.
They pull no punches and give his surrogates no breaks.
Of course, the tough questions and constant criticism of his fitness for the office he seeks makes The Donald come apart at the seams.On Friday, Trump once again showed just how thin-skinned he is, when he tweeted out a demand for an apology, along with an insult directed at Scarborough s co-host, Mika Brzezskinski, in which he called her crazy all for daring to challenge one of his surrogates regarding the racist comments that Trump made about Trump University lawsuit Judge Gonzalo Curiel.
Here is the tweet:Wonderful @pastormarkburns was attacked viciously and unfairly on @MSNBC by crazy @morningmika on low ratings @Morning_Joe.
Apologize!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 26, 2016The conversation to which Trump took such high offense involved a black pastor and ardent Trump supporter Mark Burns.
Brzezinski asked Burns:When [Trump] made the comments he made about the judge, saying he was a Mexican, was that racist or not?
Of course Trump surrogates, regardless of race, will absolutely not acknowledge that his comments have been racist or that he has been playing footsie with the likes of white supremacists, anti-semites, Ku Klux Klan members and the like.
So, of course Burns went on the offensive, saying: If I was in Mr. Trump s shoes, I don t think that it was racist.
I understand what real racism is.
I m from the South, I m a black man from the Deep South, OK?
In South Carolina just two months ago, they re-raised the Confederate flag in my state to celebrate its one year s removal.
So for you to sit here and ask me like I don t know what real racism is, I don t think so.
Now, as a black woman I don t generally take kindly to white people telling black people how to feel about race, race politics, and racism, but let me tell you, I definitely make an exception when it comes to Uncle Toms.
That is what black Trump supporters are.
The man has a lengthy and well documented history of racist statements, racist business practices, and associations just from this campaign alone that prove, unequivocally, that even if there is no racism in his head or heart, there s definitely an overt tolerance for racists and racism within the Trump campaign and by Trump himself.Even after Burns was done, Brzezinski continued to hammer Trump, saying, You have no idea you have no idea what your words mean.
And to top it all off, Scarborough took a shot at Trump for his addiction to Twitter, and to watching his own press coverage:Is Donald Trump crazy?
You betcha.Crazy for Morning Joe.
The Trump U founder just can't quit us!
https://t.co/YG7C7tQNUN Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) August 26, 2016Indeed, it is Trump who is the crazy one here, not Mika.
He should be worried about his slipping polls numbers and campaigning rather than feuding with television pundits.
Once again, he shows how temperamentally unfit he is to lead this great nation.
Good one, Joe.Featured image via Jeff Swensen/Getty Images