While the media will have you believe Donald Trump is on the cusp of overtaking Clinton, the polls speak for themselves.
After CNN got caught cooking the polls to benefit Trump, the Washington Post/ABC News came back with a dose of truth: Hillary Clinton is still trouncing Trump.Their most recent poll, released September 11, shows Clinton with a 10 point lead (45-35) over Trump among registered voters, and a five point lead (46-41) among likely voters.
According to the poll, 7 in 10 voters have already made up their minds about who to vote for, while 3 in 10 say they are undecided or could change their mind in the coming months.However, Clinton should be worried when it comes to her supporters determination to voting in November:Trump s supporters report greater interest in the campaign and voting, which could factor into turnout.
More than 6 in 10 registered voters who support Trump say they are following the campaign very closely, and 93 percent say they are absolutely certain to vote.
By contrast, 45 percent of Clinton backers are paying close attention to the race, and 80 percent are certain to vote, while one-fifth say they will probably or are less likely to cast a ballot.Not all is bad news for Clinton.
Trump is currently doing worse than Romney did in 2012 among white voters while Clinton is seeing a historic gain for Democrats amongst white college-educated women, a demographic that typically votes Republican.
Clinton leads that category by 20 points.Clinton has also collected more support with Independent voters than Trump (39-37 percent).
Earlier last month, Clinton was behind Trump with Independents.While Clinton will have to work harder to coalesce her supporters to vote (she has the numbers for an outright win) she does have another advantage: President Obama s extreme popularity.President Obama s approval rating has hit seven year high of 58 percent.
Not since July 2009 has he enjoyed that much support.Here s why that helps Clinton: an incumbent president s approval rating is one factor that directly corresponds with how a candidate (of the same party) performs with voters, with other factors including economic standing, polls, etc.Don t believe he hub that Trump is closing in on Hillary Clinton.
The only thing in the way of Clinton winning in a landslide is the 20 percent of Democratic voters that are apathetic.
This is why Democrats need to get out and vote, not get cocky or complacent.Featured image via Joe Readle/Getty Images