Donald Trump appears to be backing off on his pledge to deport immigrants, at least he appeared to be earlier on Saturday.
Instead, Trump is accusing Obama of being too anti-immigrant.Yes, you read that right.
In an interview in Scotland, he said that he would limit deportations to countries with known terrorists and he would start over again on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.
He toned down his usual xenophobic rhetoric to say that his policies would have heart, unlike, according to him, President Obama.
President Obama has mass deported vast numbers of people the most ever, and it s never reported.
I think people are going to find that I have not only the best policies, but I will have the biggest heart of anybody, Trump said.Pressed on whether he would issue mass deportations, Trump answered: No, I would not call it mass deportations.
Source: Bloomberg.comIt s a damned good thing that Trump has the best health insurance money can buy, because he s risking a serious case of whiplash.
In the last few months alone, Trump has said about immigration: Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country s representatives can figure out what is going on.
According to Pew Research, among others, there is great hatred towards Americans by large segments of the Muslim population.
That s pretty definitive.
I think Islam hates us, Trump told CNN s Anderson Cooper after he was asked whether he thinks Islam is at war with the West.
There s a tremendous hatred.
We have to get to the bottom of it.
There is an unbelievable hatred of us.
If Islam hates us (they don t), then why let in immigrants from any country at all?
I will build a great wall and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me and I ll build them very inexpensively.
I will build a great, great wall on our southern border, and I will make Mexico pay for that wall.
Mark my words.
The entire foundation of his campaign was built around this wall.
I never thought of Mexico as a Muslim country, let alone one that hates us.
I do business with the Mexican people, but you have people coming through the border that are from all over.
And they re bad.
They re really bad.
You have people coming in, and I m not just saying Mexicans, I m talking about people that are from all over that are killers and rapists and they re coming into this country.
I guess he won t be keeping these people out.
We must have strong borders and not let illegal immigrants enter the United States.
As has been stated continuously in the press, people are pouring across our borders unabated.
Public reports routinely state great amounts of crime are being committed by illegal immigrants.
If anything, this latest pivot could be a misguided attempt to appeal to Bernie Sanders voters, who often disagree with Obama s deportation policies.
Yes, it is true that Obama has deported a record number of immigrants, but that s not a fact we would have heard from the Donald Trump of last week or last month, or likely of tomorrow.h/t: Newsday, America s Voice | Featured image via Jeff J. Mitchell with Getty Images.