An Indian athlete who overcame a visa denial with the help of U.S. lawmakers and a local mayor to attend the World Snowshoe Championship in New York has been arrested on charges of the abuse of a minor.It was a long journey for Indian snowshoe champion Hussain and his coach to the World Snowshoe Championships in Saranac Lake, New York last weekend.The pair were initially denied visas to travel to the U.S. in the chaotic days following the Trump administration s travel ban, but with the help of Saranac s mayor and according to Mir the office of Democratic Sen. Chuck Schemer, the American Embassy in New Delhi reversed their decision Feb. 17 and allowed them to travel to the competition.Democrat Senator Chuck Schumer, an outspoken opponent of President Trump s attempts to more carefully vet refugees and visa holder s coming into the United States, bragged about getting around Trump s temporary travel restrictions on his Facebook page:Hussain hails from the Indian side of the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir, which is predominantly Muslim.
Although India is not one of the seven countries that was part of the initial travel ban, Hussain and Khan had alleged they were victims of it when their first attempt at procuring visas to travel to the United States were turned down in late January, the first business day after Trump s travel ban was put in place.Khan told the BBC that an employee at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi told them they were being rejected because of current policy.
U.S. officials said at the time that the denial was not connected to the travel ban.
An embassy spokesman said they were preparing a statement for release later in the day.
National PostHussain and team manager Abid Khan arrived Feb. 23 in the bucolic Adirondacks town, which had been following their visa ordeal and extended them a hero s welcome.
Locals offered congratulations and free lodgings at an inn that in the snow looked like a fairy tale scene from a movie, Khan said in a Facebook post.The fairy tale was shattered Wednesday, when Hussain, 24, was arrested and charged with felony sexual abuse and child welfare endangerment, police said.The parents of the 12-year-old girl allegedly involved said the incident happened Monday, after the end of the three-day snowshoe competition, and reported it to local authorities.Chief Charles A. Potthast Jr. of the Saranac Lake Village police force said the girl was playing pool Monday afternoon with other young people at the inn where Hussain was staying.
There was a moment when the two were alone, and that s when the incident occurred, Potthast said.
The girl told police there was a passionate kiss and that Hussain touched her in an intimate area on top of her clothing.Hussain remains jailed on $10,000 bond.
Khan said the athlete told him he had done nothing wrong.A spokesman for Schumer said the senator helped with the visa process at the request of Saranac Lake and described the charges against Hussain as extremely troubling.
A spokesman for Gillibrand said the senator thinks the charges are extremely serious.
During their time in Saranac Lake, Hussein and his coach were honored with a special reception by the mayor and gave a talk about Kashmir at Saranac Lake Middle School, where students had waged a letter-writing campaign on their behalf.
Pack your bags.
Next year you are coming to Kashmir, Hussain told them, according to one of Khan s Facebook posts.
Washington PostThe athlete s coach said he is innocent.
Mir had said that the visa would not have been issued without the personal efforts of Schumer and New York s other Democratic senator, Kirsten Gillibrand.
On Saturday, Schumer celebrated Hussain s rock star welcome in a Facebook post, saying that the United States is still a country that welcome athletes from across the globe to compete in our stadiums, our snow-covered fields and everywhere in between.
National Post