Donald Trump just can t accept that he has completely demolished any and all chances of winning over the Hispanic vote.Refusing to be discouraged by the fact that he s offended the Hispanic community since day one of his disgraceful presidential campaign and continuously pummeled the minority group throughout the election cycle, the presumptive Republican nominee is trying to reach out to the very community that he said was made up of rapists and drug dealers.
Trump gave his first direct message to Hispanic conservatives over the phone, while sitting alone on a private plane.
It s truly bizarre and uncomfortable to watch, but then again so is everything else The Donald does.
During his 2-minute message, which was aired at the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference in California, Trump promised to do away with minority unemployment and stop illegal drug cartels.
While Trump rattled off a few more talking points, the business mogul s main message to Hispanics could be summed up in these few sentences: National.
Hispanic.
Christian.
Three great words.
We re going to take care of you.
We re going to work with you.
You re going to be very happy.
You re gonna like President Trump.
You can watch Trump s awkward message below:The idea of Trump sincerely trying to portray himself as a great candidate for Hispanic voter is, quite frankly, hilarious.
As much as Trump loves his polls, he must be absolutely oblivious or in severe denial it s been widely reported that Trump is still struggling big time to get support from the Hispanic community, and that s probably not going to change anytime soon.Many Hispanic voters have pledged their support to Trump s rival, Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton, with only 23% of them stating that they would vote for Trump in November.
In fact, many Hispanics registered for the first time this year for the sole purpose of voting AGAINST Trump.
No matter how hard Trump tries to undo the damage he did in the beginning of his campaign, his attempts will likely fall short.
The Hispanic community will not forget his offensive, hateful rhetoric, and neither should the rest of us.Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images