Besides Trump, no one has a bigger target on his back than DNC and Hillary email leaker, Wikileaks Julian Assange Earlier this week we learned the FBI found an additional 15,000 emails former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton failed to turn over to the State Department during their criminal investigation of her private server use.
We ve known for more than a year she deleted 30,000 emails her attorneys deemed personal business, which many speculate included information about the relationship between her official office and the Clinton Foundation.Last month, WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange promised to release additional and damning information surrounding Clinton s personal email use and said the Democrat presidential candidate should be worried about what s coming.
Now, Assange is following up on that promise and warning about an October surprise that will absolutely come before the presidential election.Watch Julian Assange talk about Hillary s October surprise here:https://youtu.be/3AinW5C1kbY We re working around the clock.
We have received a lot of material because of American election process and the major DNC revelation which has now led the resignation of five top officials in the DNC, including Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Assange told Fox News Megyn Kelly.
It s a complex business what we do.
We have to assess the voracity.
We have a perfect ten year record so far in never gets it wrong and we want to keep that reputation, understand how things should be formatted, what media we should be involved in, what is the best way to stage it out?
Do we accumulate everything and essentially publish all in one batch or do we smaller batches?
People involved in that election [U.S. presidential election] have a right to understand who it is they are electing, Assange continued.
We have a lot of page of material, thousands of pages it s a variety of different types of documents from different types of institutions associated with the election campaign, some quite unexpected angles that are quite interesting and some that are entertaining.
TownhallBut will Julian Assange be able to keep himself out of the Clinton s line of fire?
People who expose or cross Hillary don t usually fare too well.
If you don t believe me, ask Vince Foster ah scratch that!