21st Century Wire says The scandal emerged after it was revealed that Flynn had a conversation with a Russian Ambassador, Sergey I. Kislak, during the transition period before Trump took office, supposedly over the issue of US sanctions against Russia.
It is believed that Flynn had misled Vice President Mike Pence by not disclosing the full nature of these conversations.Flynn stated in a letter: In the course of my duties as the incoming National Security Advisor, I held numerous phone calls with foreign counterparts, ministers, and ambassadors, Flynn wrote.
These calls were to facilitate a smooth transition and begin to build the necessary relationships between the President, his advisors and foreign leaders.
Such calls are standard practice in any transition of this magnitude.
Unfortunately, because of the fast pace of events, I inadvertently briefed the Vice President Elect and others with the incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the Russian Ambassador.
I have sincerely apologized to the President and the Vice President, and they have accepted my apology.
This indiscretion was seen by many as an extreme beach of protocol and a risk to national security.
However, according to RT, Russian President Putin s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov stated on Monday that Flynn and Kislyak did not discuss lifting sanctions.In addition to the potential of a protracted scandal on the White House side of this issue, there is also another potentially more important issue about the fact that agents working the Obama Administration were tapping Flynn s telephone and also that agencies leaked related information which formed the press narrative of this scandal.
If so, this would amount to a covert attack on the White House from inside the US government.Flynn s departure could interrupt positive headway made on the bilateral START nuclear treaty with Russia which Flynn had been working on up until this week.In the interim, Trump has named a retired Lt. General, Joseph Keith Kellogg Jr, as Acting National Security Advisor, although it is believed that Vice Adm. Robert Harward, a former deputy commander at US CENTCOM in Tampa, FL is Trump s likely choice to replace Flynn.Another name in play is also General David Petraeus, although it s not certain that his record will be able to endure the aggressive media pressure that is certain to follow if appointed.The following a copy of Flynn s resignation lette r:Breaking: text of Flynn's resignation letter pic.twitter.com/KGue1cJFzL Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) February 14, 2017READ MORE TRUMP NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Trump Files