If Trump thought he could attack Hillary Clinton for being a woman without being smacked down by Elizabeth Warren for it, he was wrong.Earlier this week, the Republican frontrunner capped off his sweeping victory in several states on Tuesday by accusing the Democratic frontrunner of playing the woman card and that her gender is the only thing she s got going for he in this election.
If Hillary Clinton were a man, I don t think she d get five percent of the vote, Trump declared.
The only thing she s got going is the women s card, and the beautiful thing is, women don t like her, okay, and look how well I did with women tonight.
Here s a video of his remarks via YouTube.Despite his claim, a recent Gallop poll shows that 70 percent of women hold an unfavorable view of Trump compared to 28 percent who somehow hold a favorable view.Count Senator Elizabeth Warren as part of the 70 percent.During an interview with the Boston Globe on Thursday, the popular Senator from Massachusetts hammered Trump for doing what weak men do.
Donald Trump clearly feels threatened by Secretary Clinton s qualifications to be president so he s attacking Hillary Clinton for being a woman, Warren said.
That s what weak men do.
It is an old story, and I don t think the American voters will fall for it.
We need someone in the White House who isn t afraid to fight for equal rights for women, Warren continued.
That person is not Donald Trump.
Warren went on to express disappointment that the Globe didn t ask her if she thinks Trump is a sexist and she provided an answer anyway and took a shot at Trump s hair in the process.
That s like asking if he has bad hair.
He wears the sexism out front for everyone to see.
This is nothing compared to the shellacking she gave Ted Cruz, however.
Earlier this month, Ted Crus begged for money in an email by complaining about the sacrifices he has made to run for president.
Boo hoo, Warren wrote on Facebook.
He whined about facing constant attacks, nonexistent family time, his limited health and sleep, and having no personal time.
Are you kidding me?
We re supposed to pity him because trying to be the leader of the free world is hard?!
After listing the sacrifices the American people make every day, she suggested Cruz start doing his job to help them.
Senator Cruz you chose to run for President.
Working people don t get a choice.
Maybe you should spend less time complaining about your significant sacrifices and more time trying to do something about theirs.
It s too bad Warren didn t run for president this year.
It would have been amazing to watch her crush these two Republican men day after day throughout the campaign.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images