He was such a nice boy!Where have we heard this BS before?Alleged images of reported knife attacker, 22-year-old Dahir Adan #StCloudMall #Minnesota pic.twitter.com/99irKmK3BJ DivaKnevil (@DivaKnevil) September 18, 2016Somali-American leaders are expressing shock and sympathy over attacks Saturday at Crossroads Center by a man from their community.
Dahir Adan attacked several shoppers with a knife in the St.
Cloud, Minnesota mall designated as a gun free zone.
The mall Crossroads Center has a Code of Conduct that forbids firearms or illegal weapons.
There are no reports on whether there were any concealed carry permit holders who were present when the attack occurred but were unable to defend themselves due to mall policy.
However, the attack was stopped by an off-duty officer who carried his gun with him, the gun free policy notwithstanding.Breitbart News reported the attack occurred between 8:20 and 9 pm local time.
ABC affiliate KSTP reports that at least eight people were injured in the attack; the St.
Cloud Times notes that one of those eight was admitted to the hospital, while the rest sustained non-life threatening injuries.
The attack ended when the off-duty officer shot and killed the knife-welding attacker.KSTP confirms the attacker made references to Allah at some point during the attack.They say they are uncertain of motives behind the attack by Dahir Adan, who was killed during the spree by an off-duty police officer.
Religious leaders point out that Islam does not condone violence, and one leader is cautioning that the actions should not prompt retaliation.
Breitbart News The entire community are shocked by this incident.
The family and the community would like to know the whole picture of this incident, said Abdul Kulane, a leader in the Somali community.
Again, our sympathy goes to the families and victims and the entire community.
Leaders spoke as representatives for the family.
We have came today to visit the family that was affected by this.
It is really very tragic, Kulane said.
St.
Cloud and Somali community leaders, we would like to express our condolences to the victims and their families, from the incident at Crossroad mall.
We would like to offer our sympathies to those affected, their families and the entire St.
Cloud community.
He said the family and community are awaiting the full picture of the incident from police.
This is what we do know so far: The alleged suspect is Dahir Ahmed Adan.
We know him in this community as an exceptional graduate from Apollo High School.
He graduated with an honor.
He was also a junior student from SCSU, St.
Cloud State University, Kulane said.
While maintaining a high GPA, he worked part-time as a private security officer.
He was helpful to his family and as far as we know, he never had a violent history, as far as his family and the community can remember.
He was a friendly and active community member.
The details of the actual incident are unclear.
All the information circulating in the media are speculations, Kulane said.
These are the facts we know: He went to buy an iPhone from the Crossroads mall, Kulane said.
The last time he was seen was 6-6:30 p.m. SCTimes