It s apparently a new world, one in which it s perfectly acceptable to, in front of TV cameras, threaten political opponents and even people who aren t really political opponents, as long as they dare say mean things about our Der Fuhrer Elect.Trump s Chief of Staff, Reince Priebus clearly got the new tough guy message.
On ABC s This Week with George Steephanopoulos, Preibus laid down a straight out of Russia threat on the director of the Office of Government Ethics Walter Shaub.
The head of the government ethics ought to be careful because that person is becoming extremely political, Priebus said on ABC News s This Week with George Stephanopoulos.
Priebus suggested that Shaub, who was appointed by President Obama, was supportive of Hillary Clinton during the campaign.
Apparently, may have publicly supported Hillary Clinton as calling out the president with info on Twitter about our disentangling of the business over a month ago, Priebus said.
So I m not sure what this person at government ethics, what sort of standing he has any more in giving these opinions.
Here s the video:This is all because Shaub dared have an opinion that isn t necessarily favorable to the incoming Dictator in Chief.
Actually, the opinion was barely political at all.
Shaub simply said that Trump just stepping back from running his business is meaningless from a conflict of interest perspective.
Instead, Shaub urged Trump to put his assets in a blind trust, as has become customary.While Shaub may have been a Hillary Clinton supporter (there s no evidence to say that), it was clear by his statement that he was simply doing his job, which is to oversee the ethics (or, in this case, lack thereof) of government officials.
A man who ran on draining the swamp should welcome that, but it s Donald Trump.
His enemies list is growing every single day.Trump and Preibus should learn, very quickly, that not only is it acceptable to criticize the president, it s the foundation of our democracy.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images