PLEASE NOTE THE OVERWHELMING INFORMATION REGARDING THE INABILITY TO VET THE REFUGEES:DEAR MR PRESIDENT: Listen To Your Own FBI Director And Homeland Security Tell Us We CANNOT Properly Screen The Syrian Refugees [Video]TOP SECURITY OFFICIALS CONCERNS ON REFUGEE VETTINGHouse Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul stated yesterday during a pen and pad on H.R.
4038, It is the Administration s own officials that were warning us about this program.
It s not me making this up.
This came from testimony that came from both F.B.I.
and homeland security officials in briefings and in public testimony.
I would argue that [the President] can spin it politically anyway he wants to but the fact of the matter is: the threat is real.
ISIS has said in their own words that they want to exploit it to infiltrate the West.In a private 2013 speech, Hillary Clinton worried about the risk of jihadists entering Jordan with legitimate refugees because they can t possibly vet all those refugees.
Clinton today wants to increase the amount of Syrian refugees the United States takes in by 55,000 annually.
She believes that the U.S. refugee screening process is comprehensive enough to catch potential jihadists trying to enter the country, though FBI Director James Comey has said that the vetting process is severely limited by a lack of available data.
So I think you re right to have gone to the places that you visited because there s a discussion going on now across the region to try to see where there might be common ground to deal with the threat posed by extremism, and particularly with Syria, which has everyone quite worried, Jordan because it s on their border and they have hundreds of thousands of refugees and they can t possibly vet all those refugees, Clinton said before the Jewish United Fund Of Metropolitan Chicago during an October 2013 lunch.She added, So they don t know if, you know, jihadists are coming in along with legitimate refugees.
Turkey for the same reason.
Read more: Daily Caller