An employee of the Columbus City School system made a post to Facebook on Thursday, where they called for a Boston Marathon like attack at a local Columbus City LGBTQ pride festival.
The poster wrote on the event s official page: I hope this event turns out like the Boston Marathon a few year s (sic) back.
All [LGBTQ people] should be killed or at least relocated.
Both the local police and Homeland have been made aware of the threat and are looking into the matter.A local NBC affiliate contacted the individual who made the post and questioned his motivations.
The individual refused to say why he posted the hateful message and responded that they did not have anything to say about the matter.
The school district quickly responded to the news by issuing a statement where they called the comments inappropriate.
The school district released a statement the next day where they announced that the poster was being terminated from his position.
I can share that the District is working toward his termination.
More importantly, we are gearing up for an even larger contingent of teachers, staff, students, families[,] and allies planning to march together at tomorrow s Pride Parade.
We are expecting well over 400 people upward of 500 now as people positively respond to the immediate actions we took as a District following this employee s unacceptable actions, the statement reads.
Despite recent legal gains such as the SCOTUS decision that made marriage equality the law of the land, hate crimes that target LGBTQ individuals have been on the rise.
In fact, 2016 was declared the deadliest year on record for LGBTQ people according to data that was compiled by analysts.
The report also cited the recent political climate as a major contributing factor in the rise.
When Republicans are in charge, the queer community also suffers heavily.
You can watch a video report on the story, below, in full.Featured Image: Photo by Chelsea Guglielmino/Getty Images with NBC 4 Video screenshot added