California has had a movement going for the last couple of years that is pushing for the large, deep blue state to leave the union.
This state has long been the leader of progressive policies and movements, and with the election of Donald Trump and his supporting regressive federal government, it is looking more and more like California just might be fed up enough to leave the United States permanently.The movement is led by the Yes California Independence campaign, and they have been given the green light to begin collecting signatures to get on the ballot.
Thanks to the fact that the Trump administration wants to take America back to the dark ages where people of color are more disenfranchised than ever, where LGBTQ people are subjected to abuses like conversion therapy and routinely discriminated against, where women have no reproductive rights well, let s just say the idea just got a whole hell of a lot less far-fetched.
It s not a stretch to believe that the majority of Californians do not want to live under the tyranny of Trump and Pence and the GOP Congress.The green light is a sign that this could really happen.
Yes California has 180 days to rack up 585,407 signatures to be on the ballot in time for the 2018 election.
If they get this passed via the voters, there will be another election specifically to decide whether or not California wishes to be its own country.
In that instance the state would repeal the part of the state constitution that says that the United States Constitution is the supreme law of the land, as well as law codifying California as an inseparable part of the United States.
On the one hand, this sounds like some kind of liberal utopia, and if it were to happen, I d personally be there in a heartbeat.
On the other hand, the remaining parts of the United States would be subjected to Christofascist GOP rule for the rest of eternity, because California is a key state when it comes to delivering Democratic victories in presidential races, with its 55 electoral votes.
Further, it could lead to a Brexit-like breakdown of the United States, which could spell trouble for democracy at large, with the break-up of countries like the United States and alliances like the European Union.
This could be a world-destabilizing force.Either way, it could be interesting to watch, and one must wonder how a huge state like California, which has the world s sixth largest economy, would be stopped from leaving the GOP-infested hellhole that Trump and Pence are sure to turn America into in short order.Featured image via KTLA