The nation was in an uproar on Wednesday, after learning that Donald Trump, the most divisive person in modern history to be elected president (and yes, I m including Richard M. Nixon) was chosen as Time Magazine s Person of the Year.
Actor Danny Glover is one of the people who spoke out about the cover.Image via Time MagazineNow, to be fair, the honor isn t always an honor.
Hitler once graced the cover of the Man of the Year issue.
As for Trump, Time said this:For those who believe this is all for the better, Trump s victory represents a long-overdue rebuke to an entrenched and arrogant governing class; for those who see it as for the worse, the destruction extends to cherished norms of civility and discourse, a politics poisoned by vile streams of racism, sexism, nativism.
To his believers, he delivers change broad, deep, historic change, not modest measures doled out in Dixie cups; to his detractors, he inspires fear both for what he may do and what may be done in his name.The revolution he stirred feels fully American, with its echoes of populists past, of Andrew Jackson and Huey Long and, at its most sinister, Joe McCarthy and Charles Coughlin.
Trump s assault on truth and logic, far from hurting him, made him stronger.
His appeal part hope, part snarl dissolved party lines and dispatched the two reigning dynasties of U.S. politics.
Yet his victory mirrors the ascent of nationalists across the world, from Britain to the Philippines, and taps forces far more powerful than one man s message.The article neglected to mention that Clinton won the popular vote.
It barely mentioned Trump s racism, his xenophobia and his sexism.
For that, and for the very fact that Trump is on the cover, Glover is p*ssed!
It s irresponsible to make him person of the year, Glover told reporters gathered at the Freedom Plaza rally.
Based on what?
Based on the fact that he won the Electoral College?
Based on the fact that he lied to people?
Based on the fact that all the stories of all he s done to women and what he thinks about women.
Based on his racism?
the actor continued.
A racist as Person of the Year?
Glover added.
I m appalled, I m appalled.
I m angry now that Time magazine would name this person Person of the Year.
It s incredible, the actor went on.Source: Daily MailGlover went on to talk about the fact that Trump ran on a campaign of racism and xenophobia.
He called the magazine cover, disrespectful, and a slap in the face.
As for giving the President Elect a chance, no way.
Give him a chance what?
the actor mused.
You know what happens here.
We fight harder.
We push harder.
We know who he is.
We know exactly who he is.
(W)e have to fight him every inch.
We have to fight him every moment.
Glover is right.
Since the election, and even before, the media has bent over backward to normalize Trump and even his white nationalist followers.
There is no both sides, not now.
There is no alt-right.
They are neo-nazis.
The media needs to step up and do its job.
We need journalists and media sources who aren t afraid to tell the truth about Trump.
Time Magazine should be ashamed.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images