The second presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton Sunday night was bizarre to say the least.
Donald lurked behind Clinton onstage, lied and even threatened to jail the Democratic presidential nominee.
The debate occurred during Donald s most recent scandal in which a tape was released showing Trump casually discussing predatory behavior towards women.
That issue was brought up during the debate.
The lies, though, were abundant.Reporters for The New York Times fact-checked the statements made by Clinton and Trump during the debate and the results are pretty damning for the GOP presidential nominee.The Times rated the following statement by Trump to be Just flat wrong, : Mr. Trump said Mrs. Clinton has never used the phrase radical Islamic terrorism.
In June, Hillary Clinton broke from President Obama and used the term radical Islamism to describe an attack on an Orlando night club.
Whether you call it radical jihadism or radical Islamism, I m happy to say either.
I think they mean the same thing, she said on CNN in June.But Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have argued that using that term plays into the hands of the Islamic State.
We are not at war with Islam, Mrs. Clinton said on Sunday night.Hillary Clinton said that she had helped eight million children obtain health coverage, Sept. 11 responders receive medical care and children get safer medicines.
She can back it up, the Times notes.Lawmakers of both parties who led the fight for the Children s Health Insurance Program in 1997 said then that Hillary Clinton had played a crucial behind-the-scenes role in lining up support for it.She was a tenacious advocate for legislation that provided medical monitoring and treatment to emergency workers and cleanup workers at the site of the World Trade Center attacks.
She was also a leading proponent of the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, which has increased the study of drugs in children.After Trump said Clinton wants amnesty for everybody, come on in, come on over, the Times said that s not her position.
Naturally, the Benghazi attacks came up during the debate.Mr.
Trump said Mrs. Clinton ignored 600 requests for increased security from J. Christopher Stevens, the ambassador to Libya, and communicated only with Sidney Blumenthal.That little nugget was rated extremely misleading.
On Trump s taxes, which he refuses to release:Mr. Trump admitted that he used a $916 million loss declared on his 1995 tax returns to avoid paying federal income taxes.
But he refused to say how many years he paid no income tax and simultaneously claimed to have paid a tremendous amount of taxes.The Times responded to that with, More questions than answers.
It s impossible to know exactly what Donald J. Trump has or has not done with regard to taxes.
He s the only presidential candidate in decades to refuse to release his tax returns.
The $916 million loss declared on 1995 tax returns obtained by The New York Times could have allowed Mr. Trump to avoid legally paying income taxes for up to 18 years.
There is evidence, the Times reports to Clinton saying Trump supported the Iraq war before it began.While one statement by Hillary was deemed Misleading, the lies told last night belong to Donald J. Trump.
Photo by Scott Olson via Getty.