Ever since Donald Trump had the nerve to insult and attack the parents of a slain Muslim soldier who sacrificed his life for his country, he s been getting backlash from both Democrats and Republicans.
And it turns out, it s getting difficult for even the most die-hard Trump fans to defend him.That s why when CNN contributor and Trump lover Scottie Nell Hughes was asked to defend the attacks Trump made on the Khan family, it didn t take long before she gave up and started complaining that there weren t enough Trump supporters to back her up on the panel.
Completely disregarding the fact that there happened to be a well-respected Republican strategist on the panel as well, Hughes accused CNN of being biased and whined: Look at this panel.
Four versus one.
Co-host Kate Bolduan tried to keep Hughes focused to discuss the real matter at hand, and said: Criticizing the makeup of a panel does not help the argument for Donald Trump.
But they never could get to the real discussion, because Hughes kept insisting that her nonstop complaints about the panelists were helping because she was calling out continued media bias.
Embracing behavior that she might have learned from Trump himself, Hughes continued to have a childish meltdown to avoid getting to the real issues.
Hughes also accused prominent Republicans like House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Sen. John McCain of anti-Trump bias because they d had the decency to speak out against Trump s attacks on the Gold Star parents.But the conversation eventually went back to the panel, which according to Hughes, was not necessarily fair and balanced.
It took a few minutes, but Bolduan finally lost the last bit of her patience and said, Oh my God, Scottie, really if you want to waste more airtime talking about the weight of the panel go right ahead.
I m actually really surprised that you would go on this route rather than making a cogent argument for your candidate.
You can watch Hughes throw a Trump-like temper tantrum below:Featured image is a screenshot