It appears that the Bundy militia has finally managed to radicalize a highly impressionable American into joining their cause and it just so happens to be one of Donald Trump s campaign officials.In a shining example of the kind of people who gravitate towards the Republican front-runners campaign, Jerry DeLemus, an anti-government fanatic, dropped what he was doing as the co-chairman of Veterans for Trump in New Hampshire to join up with the Bundy family members in Oregon to attempt to kickstart a revolution to overthrow the federal government.According to his Facebook, DeLemus (who is married to a New Hampshire Republican state congresswoman) arrived in Burns, Oregon along with a videographer to wage a psyops war on the mainstream media that are spreading lies about the Bundy brothers.
screengrab via Raw StoryDeLemus is no stranger to walking right up to the line of insurrection.
He has been adamant that the government is ruled by tyranny and may need to be overthrown.
The Bundy brothers are just the kind of fanatics that he would latch on to.
As the Daily Beast recently reported, DeLemus spent much of 2013 trying to raise an right-wing army in Rochester.
He s begging for a fight.
I believe that we have another financial collapse coming soon and it will be worse than the one in 2008, Delemus warned.
There are stark differences we must realize that we have nearly a 0% interest rate and our debt is nearly double.
Not to mention our credit rating has been dropped.
On top of this we have a government that has no respect or regard for the rule of law as provided in our Constitution.If we do not stand against this insanity we can be sure we will fully slip into tyranny.
We are in a similar position our Founding Fathers found themselves in and their decision to stand was equally difficult.
During the 2014 standoff at Bundy Ranch in Nevada, he was right there with the other patriots, marching with guns and facing off against the federal government.Apparently, nobody let him know that Trump was not on the same page.
Trump may be a racist, xenophobic narcissist, but he s not let s overthrow the government crazy.
At the same time DeLemus was grabbing his camping gear and buying a plane ticket to Oregon, Trump was disavowing the militia.
Trump, like many of his Republican challengers, felt the militia was too extreme, even for conservatives.When asked his feelings on the group, he called them lawless.
You have to maintain law and order, no matter what.
It s a bit awkward that one of his staffers is now joining their ranks.So why would a guy like DeLemus support law and order Trump?
That s easy.
They share an affinity for hating Muslims.Inspired by the bigotry in Texas, DeLemus recently tried to organize a Draw Muhammad rally in New Hampshire in the hopes of inciting violence between right-wing bigots and Muslim residents.
The event fell apart and DeLemus claimed he won against Muslims anyway by spreading awareness.
If DeLemus s rush to join an anti-government militia illegally occupying a wildlife refuge shows us anything, it s that Trump s base is teeming with right-wing extremists held together by little more than hatred.
It s hard to imagine a single other candidate losing a campaign staffer to an insurrection and maintaining his or her massive lead in the polls, but Trump doesn t rely on anything but his own big mouth to keep himself in the lead.Feature image via YouTube