Donald Trump Jr. is so furious over Johnny Depp s bad assassination joked that he wants Disney to fire the actor.Speaking in England on Thursday, Depp made a joke about actors assassinating presidents.
When was the last time an actor assassinated a president?
I want to clarify, he continued, I m not an actor.
I lie for a living.
However, it s been awhile, and maybe it s time.
By the way, this is going to be in the press and it ll be horrible, Depp acknowledged.
It s just a question; I m not insinuating anything.
Well, the Pirates of the Caribbean star was right about the last part.
His comments did end up in the press and it was horrible.
Depp quickly realized that this bad joke was a mistake and apologized just hours later.
I apologize for the bad joke I attempted last night in poor taste about President Trump, he said in a statement to PEOPLE magazine.
It did not come out as intended, and I intended no malice.
I was only trying to amuse, not to harm anyone.
To be clear, no, jokes like this are not acceptable, especially in today s tense political climate.
But Donald Trump Jr. is absolutely beside himself over Depp s remarks and so he did what all Trumps do: he threw a temper tantrum all over Twitter.
Junior s goal?
To make sure Depp never works for Disney again.I d think it would be hard for @Disney to keep him, let s see: #FireDepp Goes VIRAL after Trump Assassination Joke https://t.co/CXOzVl6r6t Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 24, 2017Donnie s hashtag was a flop and never did go viral like he had hoped and nobody else seems to really give a damn about getting Depp fired from Disney because he made a bad joke about assassinating Trump.For some unknown reason, Trump s eldest son also decided to drag Senator Dianne Feinstein into the fun.
Because, why not.But I bet she s a YUGE Johnny Depp fan.
https://t.co/ErKr0QyAtd Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 24, 2017It is worth noting, just one more time, that for eight years every right-wing nutjob in the country called for President Obama to be lynched.
Ted Nugent was one of the loudest voices calling for the death of the president, and not only were conservatives totally okay with that, but Trump even invited him to the White House.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images