Erin Moran s family just declared war on Scott Baio and he s whining like a little bitch about it.In the wake of former Happy Days star Erin Moran s passing, her former co-star Baio expressed his condolences via Twitter.My sincere condolences.
#ErinMoran #HappyDaysFamily pic.twitter.com/5b0AbioZEc Scott Baio (@ScottBaio) April 23, 2017And then he decided to open his big mouth and speculate about what caused Moran s death.
My thing is, I feel bad because her whole life, she was troubled, could never find what made her happy and content, Baio said on a radio show.
For me, you do drugs or drink, you re gonna die.
Baio had zero evidence of the circumstances behind Moran s death, so he should have kept quiet until the official cause was released.
As it turns out, Moran died after a battle with cancer.Baio s baseless speculation angered her grieving fans, but especially pissed off her family members, who took to social media to roast Baio alive.
Moran s brother Tony struck first.#scottbaio.
Get on your knees and pray I never run into you.
tony moran (@tmoran_mmyers78) April 25, 2017After discovering his error, Baio took to Facebook and blamed the media and claimed he was criticized because he s a Trump supporter.
I m sure they re attacking me because I m a conservative, Baio remarked.
These people never attack the press for getting the story wrong about heroin.
They attack me.
Well, Tony Moran wasn t impressed.
In fact, he called Baio out for being a coward after Baio had his wife call him to apologize instead of doing it himself.#scottbaio.
Your wife contacts me?
Not u?
You fucking scumbag coward piece of shit!
tony moran (@tmoran_mmyers78) April 26, 2017Then Moran s cousin Roy jumped in.regardless of cause.
that dick head should have handled it way different.
now he needs to get handled.
rip cousin https://t.co/rR4FgATivp Roy Moran (@moranclan) April 26, 2017Tony Moran wasn t done, however.
He also slammed Baio on Facebook.A special shout out to Scott Baio.
I already went on Twitter about you.
I hope it finds you.
You and my lil sis had a very very brief fling.
She dumped you.
2 reasons.
1.
She told me that you were more like a lil girl and not a man.
2.
She told me that you were tiny.
Ya know.
Barely a man in the man region.
True story!
Scott, I d advise you to get on your knees and pray you never run into me.Well guys.
Guess what?
I was contacted by Scott Baio s wife.
His wife!
Fucking coward!
I ve never met her.
I do know the scumbag piece of shit Scott Baio tho.
He was a piece of shit back then and still is.
He had his wife contact me!
Very apologetic and shit.
Doesn t surprise me.
It s too late you motherfucking pieces of shit!
Go back under the rock you crawled out from under.
There isn t one word I want to hear you speak.
Makes me sick to my stomach.Scott Baio openly admitted in his Facebook post that he speculated on Erin Moran s cause of death only to find out that she had stage 4 cancer later on.
He should have just personally apologized for his own words and actions rather than blaming the media.
He knew damn well that an official cause of death had not been released yet.
And he certainly should have spoken to Moran s brother personally instead of having his wife do it.
Instead of handling Moran s death like a human being, Baio acted like a cowardly douchebag and he s getting the criticism he deserves.
And he has only himself to blame.Featured Image: Screenshot