The people have spoken and it s clear that Americans are 100% FED Up!
with the sanctuary city policy and illegal immigration.
Embattled San Francisco Sheriff Ross Mirkarimi convincingly lost his bid for re-election Tuesday after spending months in the national spotlight as the face of his city s controversial sanctuary city policy on illegal immigration.
The murder of Kate Steinle brought to the forefront the sanctuary city policy in San Francisco.
The refusal to acknowledge the illegality of this policy and the treatment of the Steinle family couldn t be more shameful.
Our hope is that this landslide sends a message to those who have been ignoring the rule of law.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to the Steinle Family who ve suffered so much.Mirkarimi, 54, was defeated by Vicki Hennessy, a former sheriff s official who had the endorsement of San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee and the sheriff deputies association.
With 42 percent of precincts reporting, Henessy had received 63 percent of the vote to 31 percent for Mirkarimi.Mirkarimi and his office received heavy criticism after Mexican illegal immigrant Francisco Sanchez allegedly shot and killed 32-year-old Kate Steinle on San Francisco s waterfront July 1.
Sanchez had been released from Mirkarimi s jail in March even though federal immigration officials had requested that he be detained for possible deportation.San Francisco declared itself a sanctuary city in 1989, passing an ordinance that bans city officials from enforcing immigration laws or asking about immigration status unless required by law or court order.
A follow-up ordinance in 2013 allows detention only under a court order targeting violent felons.
Last month, San Francisco s board of supervisors unanimously approved a resolution to maintain the city s sanctuary status.San Francisco and other cities and counties have routinely ignored requests from Immigration and Customs Enforcement officals to keep people in custody.
The jurisdictions say they can t hold arrestees beyond their scheduled release dates without probable cause.Hennessy has previously said the sheriff s order barring the San Francisco jail from cooperating with immigration officials is misguided.
There are cases, she said, when federal immigration officials should be notified that the jail is about to release an inmate who is in the country illegally.Read more: FOX News