It looks as though the conservative target of choice this week to throw all their blind rage at is legendary artist Beyonc .
After all, she had the audacity to perform at the Super Bowl and sing a song that points out police brutality.
Something many conservatives don t want to admit actually exists against people of color.However, as they want to go after Beyonc for being a woman of color with a powerful platform to get an important message across, what exactly are these conservatives doing to make the world a better place?
Because as far as I can tell, Beyonc has actually been the one doing just that for a long, long time.As Beyonc uses her success to spread awareness, she s also using her earnings to make sure the homeless in Houston have a place to live.
In fact, she gave $7 million over several years to help fund Knowles Temenos Place Apartments which helps house those who have been displaced.
She, alongside her family and fellow Destiny s Child alum Kelly Roland, began this project in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.In Houston, it s actually illegal to feed the homeless.
On top of that, it s illegal for the homeless to go in search of food for themselves.
It s seems as if it s a pretty heartless society, and Beyonc is actually stepping up where society has let these people down.Texas, that prides itself of on conservatism, even more so on their conservative Christianity, is letting their citizens down.
While they love to boast that they re welcoming to business, they clearly are not welcome to much of anything else.
Well, at least if you don t have money.
However, part of being good Christians should be adhering to the teachings of the Bible, something Beyonc seems to have actually taken to heart by taking action.
After all, in the Bible, Jesus told everyone to take care of the sick and shelter the needy.
Conservatives have seemed to have lost that message somewhere along the way while they were hating immigrants, the poor and needy, and while telling sick people if they can t afford healthcare, well, too bad.So, maybe next time, before criticizing someone for performing and speaking truth to power on a stage being broadcast around the world, just because it s difficult for you to hear and wrap your head around.
Maybe, just maybe, listen to what s being said.
Maybe, just maybe, realize there s an epidemic of police brutality that makes all the good officers look bad as well, and something needs to be done.
And maybe, just maybe, realize the person who you are criticizing is a person you should emulate and appreciate for all they are doing for communities, those around her, and pretty much all of society.
Then maybe, just maybe, you ll see something you ve never seen before faith, hope and love.
The pillars of the Christian faith that conservatives boast so proudly, but have failed at actually achieving.Featured image: Wikimedia Commons