In an apparent attempt to prove to the world that he is the devil himself, George Zimmerman recently decided to auction off the gun he used to murder Trayvon Martin.
The move has been universally condemned by everyone who is not a heartless monster.Fortunately, some brilliant individuals decided to hijack the online auction for the weapon, mocking the gun s sale with fake bids.
The top bid for the gun was made by someone named Racist McShootface in the amount of $65 million dollars.
As hilarious as the monkey wrenching shenanigans are, it is saddening to know that there is money to be made, so the gun will eventually be sold and Zimmerman will go on living his new life of luxury and infamy.However, one individual released a plan to turn this terrible event in history into an opportunity to do some good in the world.
Shane Claiborne, a Christian activist released a post on his Facebook page where he writes that he and others had planned on attempting to win Zimmerman s gun in the online auction.
From there, they would work with RAWtools, a company that turns firearms into tools.The idea of turning weapons into tools come from the biblical verse Isaiah 2:4:He will judge between the nations and will settle disputes for many peoples.
They will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks.
Nation will not take up sword against nation, nor will they train for war anymore.Some Christian peace activists live by this verse, encouraging nations and individuals to lay down their weapons and work towards creating world peace.As Claiborne points out in the post, there is one major flaw with this plan.
There has been a Twitter-storm of folks suggesting we should acquire the gun and beat it into a plow with our friends at RAWtools, Claiborne writes.
Initially, that seemed like a powerful idea to destroy this horrific icon of injustice, and make sure it doesn t take another life.
We even had some donors offering to buy it.
But then we heard the money was going to be used to fight many of the groups and movements we believe in, like Black Lives Matter.
Claiborne then writes that a new plan was eventually formed.
I have to say, as far as B plans go, it s a pretty good one.
We are going to take a 9mm pistol identical to Zimmerman s, beat it into a plow, auction it off, and donate the money to Trayvon Martin s family foundation.
Last night we sent out the invitation to donate handguns and just got the news that we have had 6 guns donated overnight (thanks to Benjamin L. Corey and all who donated so far).And all 6 of the guns are 9mm pistols.
(by the way, keep em coming email here to donate: [email protected]) My friends at RAWtools, Inc. will be transforming the pistol.
And will start the bidding within the next week or so.
What a great idea.
This just proves that no matter how much hatred and misery some people put out into this world, there are others willing to push back with acts of love and compassion.Here is the original Facebook post.https://www.facebook.com/ShaneClaiborne/photos/a.10150112918376371.279881.100500271370/10153375689991371/?type=3&theaterFeatured image from Rawtools via Facebook