Hurricane Matthew isn t the only hurricane, nor the biggest one, hitting the United States right now because Hurricane Trump struck again on Friday.
Looks like we dodged the bullet a little bit with that storm, Maher began in reference to the hurricane in Florida.
However, with Donald Trump talking about women, it has been upgraded to a category five shitstorm.
Newly discovered audio caught the Republican nominee having an incredibly offensive conversation in the 1990s with Billy Bush on a hot mic about women during an appearance on Access Hollywood.
Trump bragged about how he is so famous that he can walk up to any woman and just grab them by the p*ssy and that whenever he sees a beautiful woman he just starts kissing them, apparently even when they don t want him to do so.Maher said that not knowing that the mic was still on is one indication that you re a fucking idiot and proceeded to quote Trump s remarks while talking like him.
You know I m automatically attracted to beautiful.
I just start kissing them.
I don t even wait.
When you re a star you can do anything.
You can grab them by the pussy.
Grab them by the pussy?!
Maher exasperatingly repeated before using the words to hit Trump where it hurts the most.
Sounds like what Hillary did to Trump at the first debate.
Is this really happening?
Maher asked again.
The guy who s running for president says grab them by the p*ssy?!'
Maher said he can t wait for the Sunday talk shows to hear how the Trump surrogates are going to spin this.
Look, George, people are tired of Washington politicians who won t grab the voters by the p*ssy.
Donald Trump and Mike Pence are making sexual assault great again.
Maher spent the remainder of his epic monologue slamming Mike Pence, informing the family values conservative who believe marriage is the glue that holds societies together that when Trump hugs Pence s wife, that s not glue.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is a sexual predator who should be in prison, not the White House.
This latest revelation is so bad that Paul Ryan disinvited Trump to his campaign rally in Wisconsin.
The question is whether they will have the balls to remove Trump from the ticket entirely, because if they continue to stick with him as their nominee, every Republican on the ballot in November should be defeated.
Featured image via screenshot