Even the crankiest section of America s right wing is starting to sense that the armed take over of the Oregon refuge is creating some bad press for their movement.
But instead of questioning the values that led them there, right-wing nut jobs have created a conspiracy theory that lays the blame at the feet of just one, liberal black man.
President Obama.Leading conspiracy nut Alex Jones issued a YouTube rant on Monday, outlining his theory for who is really behind the Oregon attacks.
According to Jones, federal plants funded by billionaire liberal George Soros and the Southern Poverty Law Center are manipulating events in Oregon in order to steal our guns.
Ladies and gentlemen, don t let Obama be successful when it comes to starting civil unrest and riots in this country, Jones said.
They will use that as a civil emergency to bring in a type of soft martial law.
But Jones is not alone.Right Wing Watch reports that Mike Vanderboegh, the leader of the Three Percenters militia group, issued a blog post over the weekend which laid out a similar conspiracy theory to Jones.
He argued that the militia group responsible for the armed takeover of a federal building in Oregon consists of federal provocateurs, sociopaths and idiots with a John Brown complex.
Vanderbough foresees an even darker end to the stand off than Jones though, claiming the militants have written a check that they expect the rest of us to cash in our own blood in a ghastly civil war.
However, despite his criticisms of the group, Vanderboegh states that he and his militia would have no choice but to join a civil war against the federal government and all agencies and individuals acting on its behalf.In short, a group of armed white men take launch a terror attack on U.S. soil, and blame any future fall out on a liberal black guy who favors more effective gun control.And every step of the way, the craven mainstream media is helping the militia group along.
It is utterly breathtaking that African American s affiliated with the Black Lives Matter movement have been branded domestic terrorists for non-violent protests over police brutality, yet these white militia-men can seize a federal building, call any enforcement of law an act of civil war and they are called protesters.
It is little wonder that these gun-wielding lunatics have such a sense of entitlement.
They are able to flout the law and threaten extreme violence, while facing zero consequences.
While 12-year-old Tamir Rice was shot dead 2.5 seconds after cops found him playing with a toy gun, these men have been able to seize a building with the force of real arms and none suffered so much as a bruised ego.
Something is wrong with this picture America.Feature image via CubsInsider