So now if you enter a contest, you need to worry about your political affiliation if you re a Republican?
The left continues to show that they are the most intolerant of anyone who s across the aisle from them.
It s getting uglier and uglier out there.
What happened to the accepting leftists who claim they re ok with all people?
WE HAVE A SUGGESTION: Please message Gypsy on Twitter or Instagram It might also be a good idea to contact Kat Von D Beauty.
Light Up Social Media!The Wichita Eagle reported that Gypsy Freeman was declared the winner of a national art contest sponsored by Kat Von D Beauty and was set to receive a prize package worth about $2,100.
That is, until an Instagram user found a post on her page supporting Donald Trump.
Once that was made known to the company, Freeman reportedly received a message from Kat Von D s Instagram account informing her that she was disqualified.PLEASE SEND A MESSAGE OF ENCOURAGEMENT TO GYPSY FREEMAN VIA TWITTERAccording to the Eagle:When Freeman was announced as the winner, curious Instagrammers went to her page and found a pro-Trump post from Election Day last year.That evening, she received a direct message from Kat Von D s personal Instagram account, telling her the celebrity had drawn a personal line in the sand between myself and anyone who supports that man, according to screenshots of the conversation.
My launch party [and my brand] celebrates many things that Trump is against, the celebrity went on to say, according to the screenshots.
And I just need you to know that I personally have a hard time with inviting anyone who would support such an anti-feminist, anti-homosexual/LGBT, anti-immigrant, and anti-climate change fascist such as Trump.
According to the screenshots, Freeman replied: I won t be upset with you if you can t have us there for these reasons, and I wish you the best.
We would love to be there, of course, but I sincerely do understand if you decide to replace us with someone who supports the candidate you support.
This woman is so talented!
It should be about the work and not about politics.
This is a shame but Gypsy will get much more publicity from this than she would have otherwise.
Her website is amazing!
The winning image is below: