Donald Trump has nominated Ben Carson an idiot in every area except that of brain surgery to run the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Department.
Carson has no experience in urban development, government, real estate, or anything else relating to the job he s trying to be confirmed to do, and therefore has no business being nominated for it.
Therefore, his confirmation is and should be!
especially difficult.
Well, have no fear Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren made sure of that.Senator Warren s first order of business was to make sure that Donald Trump, who is obviously a real estate tycoon, would not benefit from the activities of HUD under Ben Carson.
Warren asked of Carson: Can you assure me that not a single taxpayer dollar you give out will financial benefit the president-elect or his family?
Carson could not make that assurance directly, and said that he could only assure that would refuse to play favorites, continuing: I can assure you that the things that I do are driven by a sense of morals and values.
That wasn t good enough for Warren, though, and she pushed Carson further: It s not about your good faith.
My concern is whether or not, among the billions of dollars you will be responsible for handing out in grants and loans, can you just assure us that not $1 will go to benefit either the president-elect or his family?
Carson said of that question: It will not be my intention to do anything to benefit [Trump].
Since Carson refused to give any direct answers here, Warren drew her own conclusions saying: Do I take that to mean you may manage programs that will significantly benefit the president-elect?
Carson insisted: You can take it to mean that I will manage things in a way that benefits the American people.
Carson went on to say that he wouldn t directly promise that he wouldn t use Trump s family properties for HUD programs: If there happens to be an extraordinary program that s working for millions of people, and it turns out that someone that you re targeting is going to gain $10 from it, am I going to say, No, the rest of you Americans can t have it?
I think logic and common sense probably would be the best way.
Warren concluded: The problem is that you can t assure us that HUD money not of $10 varieties but of multimillion-dollar varieties will not end up in the president-elect s pockets.
And that s just the problem.
Donald Trump is surrounding himself with sycophants like Ben Carson, who will use their positions of power to do anything Trump wants including using federal dollars to line Trump s pockets.
If and when this guy is confirmed, we ll literally be paying Donald Trump, via our tax dollars through Ben Carson s HUD Department, to house low-income families.This is shaping up to be the most corrupt administration in modern history.Watch the exchange below:.
@SenWarren asks Dr. Ben Carson: Can you just assure us that not one dollar will go to benefit either the President-elect or his family?
pic.twitter.com/lSyur2AYik CSPAN (@cspan) January 12, 2017Featured image via video screen capture