Donald Trump s son-in-law and senior advisor, Jared Kushner, conveniently forgot to mention a slew of foreign contacts, including several meetings with high-profile Russian operatives, when he applied for his security clearance.
Now, Democrats are demanding that Kushner s security clearance be revoked in light of his failure to disclose the meetings.Five House Democrats penned a letter to FBI Director James Comey and National Background Investigations Director Charles Phalen on Thursday, calling for Kushner to lose his security clearance.
Mr. Kushner s lack of candor about meetings with Russian officials appears to be part of a larger pattern of dissembling and deception on Russian contacts from the Trump team, and we believe the public deserves the truth about what connection, if any, exists between these incidents, they wrote.The letter was signed by Don Beyer of Virginia, Ted Lieu of California, Jerrold Nadler of New York, Jamie Raskin of Maryland and Peter Welch of Vermont.
The Democrats said they were particularly concerned about an article in the New York Times that reported Kushner had omitted dozens of contacts with foreign leaders.
They noted that this story did not receive the scrutiny it deserved.
The lawmakers added a reminder that falsifying or concealing information on a SF-86 questionnaire is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison.
Given the severity of the allegations and still unanswered questions about this administration s recently uncovered covert dealings with Russian government and intelligence officials, we are requesting that Mr. Kushner s interim top-secret security clearance be suspended pending a review of Mr. Kushner s compliance with the laws and regulation governing security clearance.
The Democrats are also calling on Kushner to make public all of the meetings he had during the time of Trump s transition.According to Kushner s aides, he has been under an interim security clearance so far while the FBI has been gathering information on him.
Kushner is also set to face an interview with Senate Intelligence Committee regarding his contacts with Russia.Via screen shotFeatured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images