Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton is not mincing words when it comes to the bigotry that runs rampant among Donald Trump supporters.
While speaking in New York at a fundrasier focused on LGBTQ issues, Hillary pointed out what we already know: many on the Trump Train are straight up bigots, and there s no way around that fact.
She said: You know, just to be grossly generalist, you could put half of Trump s supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables.
The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic you name it.
And unfortunately there are people like that.
And he has lifted them up.
Hillary then went on to make sure that people knew that she understands that not all of Trump s supporters are like this; in fact likely many are disturbed by many of his statements and the behavior of some of their fellow Trump supporters, and they are likely just desperate for change and have been duped into believing Trump can deliver it.
She continued: That other basket of people are people who feel that the government has let them down, the economy has let them down, nobody cares about them, nobody worries about what happens to their lives and their futures, and they re just desperate for a change, she said.
They don t buy everything he says, but he seems to hold out some hope that their lives will be different.
They won t wake up and see their jobs disappear, lose a kid to heroin, feel like they re in a dead end.
Those are people we have to understand and empathize with as well.
She also added that if you know folks who might vote for Trump, do something about it: If you know anybody who s even thinking of voting for Trump, stage an intervention.
Hillary is right, of course.
Donald Trump is a demagogue, and this is how demagogues work.
They prey on the desperate, they exploit and magnify divisions, all for their own gain of political power.
Trump is in no way fit to be president, and his very candidacy is already endangering the country.
To that end, we need to listen to Hillary, get out the vote, and make sure she wins, for the future of our own lives and this great nation that we all love.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images