Chuck Todd took Ted Cruz to the woodshed on Sunday after the Texas Senator claimed that there s a media conspiracy against him.Cruz is currently in second place far behind Republican front-runner Donald Trump, who is close to capturing the GOP nomination.Throughout the interview on Meet The Press, Todd repeatedly tried to get Cruz to answer whether he will support Trump or not should he become the nominee.
But Cruz only embarrassed himself by avoiding the question with nonsensical claims about the media and NBC that Todd called him out on.
If he s the nominee, I take it you can t support him anymore, can you?
Todd asked.
I recognize that many in the media would love for me to surrender to Donald Trump, Cruz accused.
It s not about the media, Todd replied before stabbing Cruz with reality.
Senator, it s about the numbers.
He may win.
Republican voters are the ones rejecting you.
This is not a media conspiracy, Senator.
Todd continued to grill Cruz into answering the original question.
Why can t you answer the question of whether you can support Donald Trump or not?
Todd asked.
You can t answer that question.
Why won t you answer that question, straight forward, black and white?
Cruz then accused NBC executives of being partisan Democrats, which Todd immediately called out as a lie.
You don t get to just say that.
It s just not true.
Go ahead.
You re broad brushing here, and this is exactly what people hate about the media and politics.
Broad brushes, right?
Cruz then launched into a rant about how if voters reject him the country will be lost as if he s the only person in the nation who can save it.
I m not willing to concede this country, Cruz said.
If we lose this, we lose our country.
At that point, Todd dared Cruz to take a stand if he really feels that way and answer the question of whether he will support Trump or not if he becomes the nominee.
All Cruz has to say is that he won t support Trump, especially if he really believes that by losing to Trump the country will be lost.
Don t you think it s important to take a stand?
You just said it s a time for choosing.
If it s a time for choosing, say it, for him or against him as the nominee!
But like a stubborn petulant child, Cruz refused to answer the question and Todd slammed him for it.
Let the record show, you have not taken a position on whether you can support Trump if he s the nominee, he concluded, to which Cruz replied that the media tried to force him to support Trump.Here s the video via YouTube:Cruz completely humiliated himself during this interview and left us no doubt about why Republican voters are rejecting him at the polls.He was given a national platform on Sunday television to tell voters that he will not stand by Trump if he wins the nomination but all he could do was offer contradictory rhetoric about how the country will be lost if Trump wins while refusing take a stand against Trump.When Cruz loses the Republican primary, he can t blame the media for it.
The only one he can blame is himself because he was too cowardly to answer a simple question that would have shown once and for all where Ted Cruz stands.
Instead, all he could do is complain.
And whining will be all Cruz is remembered for doing during this campaign.Featured image via screenshot