During an on interview on This Week, Bernie Sanders had to deal with some seriously weak interview questions.
The interviewer, Martha Raddatz brought up an allegation that Sanders surging campaign has been unsettling the markets.
That accusation is as ridiculous as it sounds.Here is how the interview went.Martha Raddatz: Senator Sanders, you said something to your supporters yesterday that caught my ear, you quoted with pride a Wall Street Journal article calling you a viable candidate, saying it appears that we are making Wall Street a little bit nervous and that s a good thing.
The article was quoting Blackstone CEO Steve Schwarzman who said the markets are unsettled because of you, a slowdown in China and geopolitical risks.
You re laughing, but I want to know why is it a good thing that the markets are in turmoil?
People have their pension funds in the market?
Lots of middle class people have their 401(k)s invested in stocks.
It s not just Wall Street.
Everybody is affected by this.
Bernie Sanders: The reason that I am laughing is I fully admit to having a big ego, like many other politicians.
But the idea that Bernie Sanders candidacy, because it has growing support all over this country, is unsettling world markets is absolutely absurd.
The point I was making is we are getting the attention of Wall Street.
Wall Street s greed and recklessness and illegal behavior drove this economy into the worst recession since the Clutch Plague.
Millions of people lost their homes, their life savings and their jobs.
And yes I believe that we have to break up the major financial institutions.
We have to reestablish Glass-Steagall.
And that we are now gaining the attention of Wall Street tells me that our campaign is doing very well.
Here s the interview:For those not in the know, the Blackstone Group is one of the largest and most powerful private entities on the planet.
They currently manage over $300 billion dollars in assists.
Stephen Schwarzman currently has a net worth of $9.8 billion dollars.
If anyone has been a beneficiary of the deregulation of Wall St., it s Schwarzman.
It isn t surprising that he, the WSJ, (who notoriously published a completely debunked hit piece on Sanders) and the mainstream media would be pushing this kind of nonsense.
They just want to make it sound like Sanders is coming after people s 401(k)s, etc.Which couldn t be further from the truth.
As Sanders pointed out, people lost everything under our current system of Wall Street-take-all finance.Featured Image Credit: Video Screenshot via YouTube h/t Egberto Willies