It s a pity the millennials who support Bernie Sanders have never had to stand in a bread line.
They ve never had to watch everything their parents have worked so hard for, be taken away by their government.
They don t make the connection that there s more to life than a free college.
The huge deductions these millennials see on their paychecks usually takes care of the naive attitude of the immature, idealistic crybabies.
People who escaped the former Soviet Union and came to America are not feeling the Bern.
Perhaps because they know exactly what it s like to live in the socialist utopia Bernie Sanders wants for America.The Atlantic reports:Why Soviet Refugees Aren t Buying Sanders s SocialismSAN FRANCISCO Janna Sundeyeva still remembers life in the Soviet Union, where stores in remote regions would lack meat for months at a time and toilet paper had to be snatched up quickly on the rare occasions it appeared.But the minor indignities paled in comparison to what happened to her grandfather: He had the chance to come to America in 1929, but he opted to stay, sensing an economic thaw.
Seven years later, Sundeyeva says, he was arrested and never heard from again.Sundeyeva immigrated to San Francisco from Moldova in 1994, and now she and her husband run a Russian-language newspaper here called Kstati.
Her Soviet experience colors how she sees U.S. politics to this day.
I don t like big government, Sundeyeva said.
She made two circles with her thumbs and forefingers and pressed them against each other so they touched, like binoculars.
This Venn diagram represents the interests of people and government, she said.
They don t have very much in common.
Today, she s not a registered Republican, but like many of the readers of her newspaper, she said she s starting to lean toward supporting Donald Trump for president.
The other self-styled outsider in the race, though, holds no appeal for her.
The only Bern she and many other Russians here are feeling is the one in the banya.To Sundeyeva, left-wingers seem to yearn for a workers revolution.
I would ask them: Have you ever lived under a revolution?
she said.
Do you know what it s like?
When someone comes and takes your family member in the night?
Interviews with more than a dozen immigrants from the former Soviet Union in the Bay Area suggest that some in the community are recoiling from Bernie Sanders and his leftist ideals.
One hundred years after the Bolshevik Revolution swept Communists into power, some Russians in America say they can t believe a serious candidate in the United States is calling himself a socialist.Many of us can t believe it either, folks.Bernie s support among young people can be chalked up to ignorance.
Millennials have no memory of the Soviet Union or the horrors people endured under socialism.
They ve grown up in the most free country in the world and have never wanted for anything.
Via: Progressives Today