Donald Trump and his campaign have been scrambling to do damage control after his multiple attacks on the Khans, Gold Star parents whose Muslim son died fighting for his country.
One of Trump s latest pathetic attempts to recover was to meet with Gold Star families so he could brag about it later.But MSNBC s Mika Brzezinski wasn t impressed, and was able to see right through Trump s act.
In a segment about Trump s latest attempt to fool America, she had a direct message for Trump supporters: wake the f*** up.
Brzezinski insisted that Trump s entire campaign was a scam and his meeting with these families was no different Trump was just trying to fool gullible Americans into believing that he cares about things other than himself.Visibly upset that a person running for president would do something so heartless and take advantage of trusting Americans this way, the MSNBC host said: I m just trying to because, look, Trump supporters, people who support Donald Trump, are people who should be respected for how they feel.
Brzezinski became emotional several times while trying to beg Trump s supporters to be more critical.
As her voice cracked with emotion, she continued: But I worry that they don t understand that they re being scammed, and they re being scammed by somebody who s really good at it, so it s not like, you know, it s their fault.
But I will say that it s a scam, what Trump is selling.
Remarking on just how heartless Trump s attacks had been on the Khans, Brzezinski urged voters not to be fooled.
Talking to Gold Star families after the biggest gaffe in probably presidential politics, candidacy s history, what he did with the Khans he s just trying to clean up.
I mean, do you want someone who speaks from the heart and says nothing or says anything, or do you want someone who speaks from the heart and has some principle behind it and sticks to his word?
This is a scam, and it seems like he has a lot of followers.
You can watch Brzezinski make her emotional plea below:Trump meets with Gold Star families @morningmika: It s a scam, what Trump is selling https://t.co/aFouAvW80u Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) August 4, 2016Featured image is a screenshot