Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren has launched yet another epic attack on presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump, and it s circulating around the internet at lightning speed.Trump had barely recovered the tongue lashing that his biggest rival, presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton had just given him about his failed businesses when Warren echoed the former Secretary of State s comments in a new video.
The video appeared on MoveOn.org s Facebook page on Tuesday morning, and quickly went viral as Warren unloaded on the business mogul, criticizing him for not providing his tax returns and not paying them every year like all Americans must.Warren started off by talking about how much she despised Trump: I have to be honest: It s hard to talk about Donald Trump.
Between his ignorance, racism, sexism, lies it s hard to know where to start.Warren s video was only four minutes long, but she made sure to burn him every second she had.
She said: We don t know what Trump pays in taxes because he is the first Presidential nominee in 40 years to refuse to disclose his tax returns.
Maybe he s just a lousy businessman who doesn t want you to find out that he s worth a lot less money than he claims we can t know for sure.
But, here s what we do know.
The last time his taxes were made public, Donald Trump paid nothing in federal taxes ZERO.
Zero taxes before, and for all we know he s paying zero taxes today.
And he s proud of it.
A few weeks ago he said he s more than happy to dodge taxes because he doesn t want to throw his money down the drain.
Warren ended the video by urging Americans to educate each other about Trump s untrustworthy nature: Whatever Donald Trump says, whatever scam he tries to pull, whatever disgusting thing he thinks he can say because he s Donald Trump speak out.
Talk to the person behind you in the grocery store.
Talk to the person pumping gas next to you.
And yes, share this video with your friends.
Ask your Fox News-loving Republican uncle: Why do you pay your taxes but Donald Trump doesn t?
You can watch Warren bash Trump below:This is likely to hurt Trump more than many other insults, because he s shown how sensitive he is about his failing business record in the past, when his shut down businesses and fraudulent Trump University were exposed.Since being uploaded, Warren s video has been viewed millions of times, and was released just as Clinton was making an anti-Trump speech in Ohio.
Clinton and Warren have been ganging up on Trump a lot recently, and we have to say that we re loving every second of it.Featured image via Astrid Riecken / Getty Images