21st Century Wire says This was one of the most eagerly anticipated cyber events ever, but today s October surprise turned out to be an October tease.On Monday, Wikileaks founder Julian Assange warmed up the international community, and more importantly Trump supporters, when he hinted, If we are going to make a major publication about the U.S., we wouldn t do it at 3 a.m [Tues].
As it turns out, after much hope and lots of hype, Trump supporters couldn t even get to first base with Assange this morning Over in America, the Trump camp was buzzing with the promise that Hillary Clinton would be mortally wounded by this morning s big reveal.
Trump s online again-offline again surrogate-cum-secret agent, Roger Stone, was over the moon with joy, and even tweeted:Wednesday@HillaryClinton is done.
#Wikileaks.
Roger Stone (@RogerJStoneJr) October 2, 2016Trump backer Alex Jones insisted that the Wikileaks document dump would be historic and that the Clintons will be devastated!
and even went so far as to promote a live broadcast special on his channel Infowars.com, promising to unveil the devastating news.In the end, nothing happened.
There were no documents revealed.The Clintons Will Be DEVASTATED: Infowars Historic LIVE COVERAGE Of #Wikileaks10 Press Conference Share this link!
https://t.co/M4saKik1GO infowars (@infowars) October 3, 2016A classic case of the media jumping the gun, before anything was actually confirmed.It wasn t only Jones and Co.
Many a Trump supporter stayed up all night in anticipation of what this Wikileaks trove might bring Did #julianassange just make me stay up 20 hours straight for him to say see you in November?
#wikileaks Tim Black (@RealTimBlack) October 4, 2016It is still possible that the major information release previously promised by Assange is imminent, and Assange did hint at this in the wake of the DNC leaks which led to the resignation of chairwoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz and others over systemic Democratic Party corruption.
In his statement, he reiterated the incredible workload that he and his team have in vetting all the information in their possession before it s released.
Wikileaks also has to be careful in order to preserve the integrity of the leaks, but also to organize and catalogue the information for press and public consumption.Assange has since indicated that waves of documents will now be revealed in a time-released fashion, with some items dumped each week, right up until the US election on November 8th.When asked during his Berlin videocast about what the impact might be based on his knowledge of the information, Assange simply relied: We think they re significant.
WATCH THIS SPACE.READ MORE WIKILEAKS AT: 21st Century Wire Wikileaks Files