Donald Trump issued a strange video after midnight on Friday night to address the leaked audio of him making crude jokes about sexually assaulting women.
The video, released via his Facebook page had all the appearance of a hostage video, and the actual content was almost as bad.Referencing his comment that he would grab them by the p y and that he was in favor of pushing himself on women and kissing them, Trump said, Anyone who knows me knows these words don t reflect who I am.
I said it, I was wrong, and I apologize.
He then went on to say, Hillary Clinton and her kind have run our country into the ground, and made the allegation that Bill Clinton has actually abused women.
The comments come as condemnations continue to pile up against Trump from his fellow Republicans, and some have also called for him to completely drop out of the race.
Senator Mark Kirk of Illinois, stuck in a tight race against Democratic Rep. Tammy Duckworth, called for Trump to leave the race, as did former New York Governor George Pataki.Other Republicans, while not calling for Trump to drop out, issued condemnations, including Speaker Paul Ryan (who disinvited him from a joint campaign event), Senator Ted Cruz, Senator Marco Rubio, former Governor Jeb Bush, and Senator Kelly Ayotte, among others.Trump was roundly condemned by Hillary Clinton s campaign, and her spokesperson issued a statement: This is horrific.
We cannot allow this man to become president.
Her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine also responded to Trump s remarks: This kind of behavior is disgusting.
It makes me sick to my stomach.
Some reports have indicated that senior officials hastily arranged meetings on Friday night to discuss possible scenarios in which Trump would be removed from the ticket.
But doing so is nearly impossible at this point, and several states that allow early voting have already had ballots cast.This is unquestionably a disaster for the Republican Party, and Trump s crazed, petulant video does not help.Featured image via screen capture