According to Reuters, a grand jury in Oklahoma found that jail staff did not verify what drugs they were using for lethal injections and were unaware when the wrong drugs were administered.
This report is another damning piece of evidence that shows that there are many flaws in the supposedly humane systems in place for carrying out capital punishments.In 2014, the news broke that the execution of an inmate named Clayton Lockett, who was sentenced to death for murder.
An executioner failed to properly put an I.V.
line into Lockett.
The needle used to inject the lethal drugs into Lockett began to spray all over the execution chamber that he was in.
He died, after 45 minutes of agony.
Not because the toxins that were pumped into his body worked as intended, but because they caused Lockett to die of a heart attack.After, a massive outcry from the public, which included a scathing condemnation from Amnesty International, Oklahoma made some minor changes to their policies regarding executions.
In 2015, two more botched executions were performed.
One of those executed was Charles Werner.
His final words were My body is on fire.
One of the major factors contributing to these botched executions is due to the absence of sodium thiopental, which is the executioner s drug of choice for lethal injections in the U.S.
The drug was taken off from the market in 2011 due to increasing international regulations on lethal injections.
States who have yet to abolish capital punishment, have been scrambling to find alternatives.That means, once again in its history, the U.S. is desperately clinging to a practice that the rest of the world is moving towards abolishing.
There are many good reasons for abolishing the death penalty but there is one reason in particular that even the staunchest advocates of the deathly penalty must admit is terrifying.
A recent study found that 1 in 25 prisoners who are sentenced to death are actually innocent.No matter what protocols are put in place, we can never know for sure if they are truly innocent.
I share the same stance as many capital punishment abolitionists, that capital punishment is always wrong, no matter what, whether the convicted individual is guilty or innocent.
The idea that innocent people might be subjected to what is increasingly becoming not only a death sentence but a sentence to living their final moments in a state of hell ( My body is on fire ) is unconscionable.Oklahoma, you have already proven that reforming your policies on capital punishment are a facade.
It s time to for you and the rest of the states that have yet to abolish the death penalty to give up this barbaric practice.Right now, all executions are on hold in Oklahoma.
Since then, not a single execution has been botched and not a single innocent person has been murdered by the state.
It s sounds as if they have found the perfect solution to their problem now they just need to make it permanent.Featured image from (Photo by Joe Raedle/Newsmakers)