Boehner s hightailing it out of DC just in time to push funding through for Planned Butcherhood without having to suffer any repercussions.
Boehner also manages to avoid the embarrassment of being pushed out by fellow Republicans in the recent move by conservative Rep. Mark Meadows of NC who filed a motion to vacate the chair, which could have forced a no-confidence vote by the full chamber and un-seat the unpopular Speaker of the House Speaker John Boehner, who rose from bartender s son to the most powerful man in Congress, will retire at the end of October, ending a tumultuous five-year tenure atop the House of Representatives.
Boehner, 65, planned to leave Congress at the end of 2014, one of his aides said Friday morning, but returned because of the unexpected defeat of Eric Cantor.
The Speaker believes putting members through prolonged leadership turmoil would do irreparable damage to the institution, the Boehner aide said.
He is proud of what this majority has accomplished, and his speakership, but for the good of the Republican Conference and the institution, he will resign the Speakership and his seat in Congress, effective October 30.
On Thursday evening as he left the Capitol, Boehner (R-Ohio) told two reporters one from POLITICO and another from the Washington Post that he had nothing left to accomplish after he brought Pope Francis to the Capitol.
When asked if he was resigning, Boehner laughed before exiting into an awaiting SUV with his Capitol Police detail.Boehner came into power on the momentum of the 2010 tea party wave, but it was that movement that gave him the most problems.
Boehner s tenure will be remembered for his internal political battles, but also his complicated relationship with President Barack Obama.
He and Obama tried but repeatedly failed to cut a deal on a massive fiscal agreement.
But Boehner has had some significant victories, including the free-trade deal that Congress passed this year, and changes to entitlement systems.Now that he doesn t have internal political considerations to weigh, Boehner is certain to push through a government-funding bill next week that funds Planned Parenthood, and keeps the government open.Boehner s decision, relayed in a closed Republican meeting Friday morning, will set off one of the most intense leadership scrambles in modern Congressional GOP politics.
Second in line is House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), who is widely expected to serve as the next speaker.
But there is serious unrest in the House Republican ranks, as a small clutch of conservatives have continuously clashed with more establishment Republican types.
But it is unclear if any of these figures can win a leadership election.
Via: Politico