A new poll released from the Washington Post and SurveyMonkey has people scratching their heads.
For the first time in four months, Donald Trump is leading Hillary Clinton, 46 to 44 percent, while simultaneously losing all swing states and the red states of Texas and Arizona.The poll, which was done from August 9 to September 1, and had close to 75,000 respondents, shows Trump losing Wisconsin, Florida, Colorado, Michigan and Arizona by two points to Clinton, with all of them being within 2 points of each other, 46-44 percent.
Texas, the reddest of all red states in the union, was nabbed by Clinton with 1 point over Trump.How is that?
People really, really hate Donald Trump:A comparison of the current survey with the 2008 Texas exit poll (there was no exit poll there in 2012) points to reasons the race appears close right now.
Trump is performing worse than 2008 GOP nominee John McCain among both whites and Hispanics, while Clinton is doing slightly better than Obama.So in a national poll, Clinton is losing overall.
But in all the states that matter (swing) and states never thought possible (Texas), she s winning.Although Trump is leading, the Post (which says the poll actually shows why Clinton has a clear advantage over Trump) has Clinton solidifying 244 electoral votes to Trump s 126 with 168 being tossups.
Of those tossups, which includes 10 states, Clinton leads in six, ties with Trump in two, and Trump leads in two.While Trump supporters may be giddy and Clinton supporters worried, the Post actually contends that Trump is the one who should be worried:Overall, the results reflect Trump s strategy of maximizing support in older, whiter Midwestern states where his anti-free-trade message and appeals to national identity generally find more fertile ground.
But his struggles elsewhere, including places that have long supported Republicans, illustrate the challenges of that strategy in more diverse states where his stances on immigration and some other positions have turned off Democrats, independents and many Republicans.>To win the election, Trump must quickly consolidate the Republican vote.
With prominent Republicans declaring they will not support Trump and some even announcing they will back Clinton, this represents a major challenge for the GOP nominee.
In the Post-SurveyMonkey poll, Clinton is winning 90 percent or more of the Democratic vote in 32 states, while Trump is at or above that level in just 13.It s not Hispanic, Latino, Black, or even female voters that are hurting Trump s chances it s Republicans.
The Obama coalition, which delivered two victories to President Obama in 2008 and 2012, have coalesced around Clinton in larger numbers.
But now this election has offered something unique: Republicans are starting to come around to Clinton.With Trump losing the traditional coalition and now with Republicans, chances of him overtaking her are slim.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images