According to a family friend, Barack Obama has plans for that D.C. mansion he rented and Trump is not going to like what they are.
No longer the most powerful man in the world, he was just observing Trump and not liking what he saw, the friend says.
The goal is to oust Trump either by forcing him to resign or orchestrating his impeachment.
According to the source, even longtime Obama confidante Valerie Jarrett is coming back to help get rid of Trump, taking up residence in a suite of rooms in Obama s home.
He was weary and burned out after eight years in office.
But Valerie convinced him that he didn t have any choice if he wanted to save his legacy, the friend says.
And, as usual, he bowed to Valerie s political wisdom and advice.
There was never any doubt that Valerie would have a suite of rooms in the house that the Obama s are renting, said the source.
Obama trusts her judgment more than any other person on the planet, as does Michelle.
Obama doesn t make a decision without her.
He is going to use his immense popularity with the half of the country that identifies as liberals and progressives.
Millions of Americans are energized and ready to take to the streets to oppose Trump, but they need to be organized and have their anger focused and directed, says the source.
Obama is dismayed at the way Trump is tearing down his legacy ObamaCare, the social safety net and the welcome mat for refugees he put in place.
He is also not fond of Trump s cabinet picks particularly notorious racist Jeff Sessions.
He had hoped to write his memoirs, golf to his heart s content.
and bask in the glory of his eight years in power and the progressive achievements he brought about.
Instead, he is going to be leading the fight and strategy to topple Trump, says the family friend.Recently, former Attorney General Eric Holder heralded the President s return: It s coming.
He s coming.
And he s ready to roll.
This is really a battle for our democracy, Holder says of Jeff Sessions recent decision to no longer challenge discriminatory voting laws.
The notion that people are denied their ability to cast a meaningful vote is inconsistent with who we say we are, inconsistent with what we say our democracy is about.
Naturally, conservatives want Obama investigated and locked up or even killed for unspecified and/or nonsensical reasons: Trump fans are scared (and just as racist as ever).
As easily the most popular President in modern history, if anyone stands a chance of successfully leading the fight against President Asterisk, it s him.