The American people are NOT going to like this at all.If you really believed that Donald Trump cares about working people and America, this interview will shatter your delusions.Trump has promised to make infrastructure spending a top priority in his administration and it s expected to carry at least a $1 trillion price tag.Usually, every American who pays taxes, from the rich to the poor and from corporations to small businesses, helps pay the bill.But Trump s scheme would not only enrich his corporate buddies, it would allow foreigners to fleece the American people as well for decades by reimbursing private companies through the use of tolls on roads and bridges, which would be privately owned.During an interview with Sean Hannity last week, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, who also happens to be Mitch McConnell s wife, let the cat out of the bag when she admitted that working Americans would be saddled with the costs of the projects and that would also mean paying tolls to enrich foreign investors.
After explaining it, Hannity attempted to bail her out by spinning it as a win win for taxpayers.
If I m hearing it properly, what you re saying is, for example, if a company were to rebuild a road, they might get their investment back by having a toll on that road and that s where the taxpayers don t pay a penny, they make a profit, it s a win-win?
Something like that?
Hannity said.
Thanks for putting it that way, Chao replied.Except that it s not a win-win.
Basically, Trump s plan would allow private companies to pay for building or repairing a road or bridge and then they would force Americans to pay a toll so the company would make their money back and profit off the backs of every American who uses the road or bridge to get to work every day.
Companies would literally be nickel and diming the people, and it would be the local citizens who get hit the hardest.Saying that taxpayers don t pay a penny is a complete lie.But that s not all.Chao repeatedly slipped up when she tried to explain that private investors would fund the roads.
So, basically, we allow foreign inv uh, we allow different kinds of money, private sector money to come into the United States I m not saying foreign to come and fund, let s say a bridge or a road or it can be any kind of infrastructure.
That s right.
Chao just admitted that foreign investors would also be able to basically own American roads and make us pay them to use them.
And Cenk Uygur knows why.Uygur explained on his Young Turks show that Chao is the daughter of a Taiwanese businessman who got rich investing in transportation.That means Chao and her family could personally enrich themselves under Trump s scheme.Here s the Hannity interview and Uygur s commentary via Twitter.Transportation Secretary @ElaineChao may have accidentally let her true intentions slip during a @seanhannnity interview.
pic.twitter.com/2yIR25BtRy The Young Turks (@TheYoungTurks) March 12, 2017Once again, Donald Trump is scamming working Americans to make himself and his friends rich while the rest of us pay the bill for the rest of our lives.
Our infrastructure would literally be owned and operated by private companies and foreigners while we pay the price.
It s unfair.
It s un-American.
And it should piss off every American citizen.Featured image via screenshot