The investigation into possible collusion between Donald Trump s campaign and Russia in an effort to fix the 2016 election took a dark turn for the White House when it was revealed that now-former FBI Director James Comey kept meticulous memos on significant conversations particularly those he had with Trump and top White House officials.
It seems that Comey was uneasy with Trump, and wanted to document and preserve the nature of conversations that he felt took turns into the land of the inappropriate or even possibly the illegal.Now, it seems that Trump himself is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to these memos.
White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus is reportedly very worried about what could be in the rest of the memos.
Since all of the memos have been requested to be turned over to Congress, it s only a matter of time before Priebus and the rest of the world will know what is in those memos, and if Priebus is this worried, chances are he s going to be in deep shit.The main concern seems to be the fact that in February, when the Russia situation had just begun to circulate and dominate the news cycle, Priebus leaned on the FBI to do what it could to kill that story because it was harmful to the White House.
Now, this is highly inappropriate at best.
And with the credibility of this White House being beyond shot thanks to all the lies they ve told, it s likely that the American people, as well as Congress, will believe Comey s memos.
Of course, at the time, then-Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe and then-FBI Director James Comey rejected even the idea of doing Priebus s bidding on this matter.Now that the memos have begun to drop, White House sources tell the Daily Beast that there is, quote, sustained panic in the West Wing over what could be in them.
One staffer said: Reince is worried about leaks, since elements in the FBI seem determined to wage this war in the press.
Initially the concern was about public perception trying to get Russia out of the headlines but it s looking more like this will be a drawn out legal battle too, even if [Trump associates are] eventually exonerated.
The same person, speaking anonymously, went on to say that inside the West Wing that there is a sort of a sense that if there s damning information out there it s going to come out one way or another someone leaks it to the Times, or the president just blurts it out in an interview.
The thing is, though, with this much smoke, there s likely fire somewhere.
Priebus and others likely know this, even if they weren t directly involved in any wrongdoing.
Just working in this White House at all could put someone in a position to follow orders that are at best improper and at worst criminal.Time to lawyer up, folks, and get out of this situation while you still can.
Trump is going down, and if you guys stay, you ll go down with him.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images