Donald Trump s bigoted anti-Muslim rhetoric has inspired his equally hateful followers to hold all sorts of bigotry-inspired events to show just how much they hate everyone who isn t a die hard right-wing Christian.
Case in point- one Jim Stachowiak who held an armed, open carry event to protest Muslims at the Georgia Capitol, which he dubbed United against Islam and Islamic immigration refugee.
He encouraged attendees to come bearing as many arms as they like, and their intended activities included ripping up photos of President Obama, Hillary Clinton, Loretta Lynch, and the Prophet Mohammed.
If that isn t offensive enough for you, Stachowiak also intended to rip up a Qu ran.This bigot s so-called rally was an epic fail, though.
Guess how many people besides the rally s organizers showed up?
ONE.
Yep, you read that right.
Only one person showed up to the hate rally, when originally there was going to be a supposed 200 people in attendance.
The people at the Capitol took what Stachowiak was doing seriously, and rightly so, since Stachowiak is a known right-wing gun nut.
According to The Daily Beast:The right-wing agitator has been calling on the government to STOP MUSLIM IMMIGRATION for years, loves brandishing his large firearms, and wants you to know that JESUS CHRIST WAS NOT A PACIFIST.
He also enjoys referring to himself as a well-armed, proud crusader and infidel against the forces of Islam, and any other Satanic Death Cult that would destroy our Liberty.
Capitol Police Chief Lewis G. Young warned people who would have the misfortune of having to work near this insane demonstration that rally participants would liked have a bunch of guns.
His warning also said: DPS is currently monitoring the threat risk and, together with GBA, is taking precautions to make Capitol Hill a safe environment.
However, it was all for naught, because there was, according the social media evidence, one lone idiot out there at the Capitol protesting Muslims by himself.
Here are a couple of tweets documenting that:Anti-Muslim protest setting up.
pic.twitter.com/fpgbrBQWOt Aaron Gould Sheinin (@asheinin) April 18, 2016From today's rally: "We're not Against Muslims" says the man who destroyed a Qur'an just minutes earlier.
#gapol pic.twitter.com/01wiw6pRwy Robbie Medwed (@rjmedwed) April 18, 2016So, in other words, this fool was out there in the hot Georgia sun all by himself, letting everyone in attendance him and a bunch of reporters see just how hateful and batshit insane he really is.
The only silver lining to this disgusting display of hate is that this moron couldn t find anyone to marinate in his hate with him.Featured image via video screen capture from Twitter