When it comes to Donald Trump, it sure as hell seems as though a lot of Republicans are playing dumb when it comes to how ill-prepared the presumptive GOP nominee actually is to be Commander-in-Chief.
Many seem to be just falling in lock-step without considering how dangerous a person like Trump would be as president.Not giving Republican Rep. Marsha Blackburn any wiggle room for bullshit, MSNBC host Tamron Hall grilled the Tennessee Congresswoman about certain things she s been saying regarding Donald Trump.After several questions where she just avoided answering at all, and giving generic answers like she hadn t yet had a conversation with him, Blackburn argued that she s curious about what he has to offer, being that he s an outsider.Hall didn t let her get away with being so mind-numbingly vague and said: I m wondering about the curiosity.
There seems to have not been curiosity about the person who has been leading in the votes for a very long time.
Donald Trump did not happen overnight.
You have yourself, and Speaker Ryan, all trying to get to know him now.
Backpedaling, Blackburn said: I ve known Mr. Trump for several years.
This back and forth went on for a bit, with Hall finally saying: But a few minutes ago you said you still need to get to know him and sit down and talk to him.
Which is it?
You re either familiar with his policies and where he stands Blackburn, not liking being caught floundering, came interrupted with: That is not what I said and you know that.
I said that let s give him and Speaker Ryan they ve had a good statement.
They are going to develop these policies and it s going to be a great campaign in the fall.
Mr. Trump has wonderful people working with him.
They are working very quickly.
Bear in mind, he has not been in the halls of Congress.
He has been out running companies.
Which still wasn t an answer, so Hall stated the obvious: He s been on the campaign trail for months speaking to your base.
It was at this point that Blackburn seemed to struggle with her earpiece and told Hall that she couldn t hear her.
Convenient timing, to say the least.
Truth is, Trump doesn t have solid policy proposals and GOPers like Blackburn know this.
They just don t care.Watch the interview here:Featured Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images