In a shocking move, White House press secretary Sean Spicer banned major news organizations such The New York Times, CNN, BBC, LA Times, Politico and BuzzFeed from attending a press briefing.
That move resulted in the Associated Press and Time magazine boycotting the briefing.
In addition, the White House Correspondents Association also protested the move.
Meanwhile, Spicer hand picked right-leaning outlets to attend the briefing.
Breitbart.com, of course, was one of them.Politico senior writer and co-author of Playbook Jake Sherman recalled an interview in December with Spicer.
Stick with me on this one, Sherman tweeted.
We had @PressSec at a Playbook Live event in December where he addressed this issue directly.
Here s what he said.
Stick with me on this one.
We had @PressSec at a Playbook Live event in December where he addressed this issue directly.
Here s what he said Jake Sherman (@JakeSherman) February 24, 2017This is what Spicer said during the interview, We have a respect for the press when it comes to the govt.
That is something you can t ban an entity from.
Conservative liberal or otherwise.
We have a respect for the press when it comes to the govt.
That is something you can t ban an entity from.
Conservative liberal or otherwise Jake Sherman (@JakeSherman) February 24, 2017 This is @presssec in December but the real amazing quote is this: That s what makes a democracy a democracy versus a dictatorship, he tweeted, tagging Spicer.This is @presssec in December but the real amazing quote is this: That s what makes a democracy a democracy versus a dictatorship Jake Sherman (@JakeSherman) February 24, 2017Watch: To reiterate, Spicer called banning the media a dictatorship in December, then a couple of months later, he did just that.
This move by the Trump administration is likely in retaliation to the damning report published yesterday stating that the FBI refused the White House s request to publicly knock down media reports regarding communications between Donald Trump s associates and Russians known to U.S. intelligence during the 2016 presidential campaign.Even weirder, Spicer had that conversation with a reporter from Politico, an established media source he has now just banned.
Conservatives will suck the freedom out of you every single time.Image via screen capture