If anything should tell the militia terrorists occupying the Malheur Wildlife Refuge in Oregon that it is time for them to give this ridiculous occupation up, it should be the fact that a committee that Ammon Bundy himself helped create is telling them to leave.On Friday night, the Harney County Committee of Safety, which Ammon Bundy helped form, held a townhall event in which the occupiers were told to leave.
A letter from the committee told them, essentially: you made your point, now it s time for you to go home.
First, spokesperson Melodi Holt seemed to try to butter the clowns up when she began speaking, telling the militia people that they did a good job by: shining a light on the Hammond case here in Harney County.Your actions have created a national focus on the Hammonds and other issues here and across the West that have created mutual distrust, anger and unrest between the people of the land and the federal government, Molt read.
We thank you for stirring us to action.
However, that was the end of the good things Holt and the committee had to say about the Bundy militia.
She went on to slam the occupiers tactics, saying that the committee and its supporters: were very upset that you chose to take the aggressive action of occupying the refuge and did it without our knowledge or any local approval, and in a fashion that has created huge distrust and loss of credibility of and for us as a group and as residents within the community.
We approved of most of your message but disapprove of your unilateral methods of occupation.
We ask that you organize your people, explain that your point has been made and leave in a peaceful and honorable fashion.
No comment has come from the militia occupiers, and they declined to show up to the event that was essentially held to blast what they are doing.Mr.
Bundy & Co., when your own people think you are doing the wrong thing, it really is time to hang it up.
Go home.
The local communities and residents, along with the federal government, have been more than lenient and patient with you.
The committee is right.
The point has been made.
Leave.Watch video of Holt s remarks below:Featured image via video screen capture from Raw Story