Republican presidential candidate Gov.
Chris Christie is mad.
He is so mad, in fact, at Michelle Obama for wanting kids to eat healthy, that he has just openly come out against her initiative for healthier children.
Sound crazy?
Because it is.Never mind the fact that it was only a few short years ago when Christie lauded the First Lady on her healthy eating agenda when he said: I think it s a really good goal to encourage kids to eat better.
You know, I ve I ve struggled with my weight for thirty years and it s a struggle.
And if a kid can avoid that in his adult years or her adult years, more power to them.
And I think the first lady is speaking out well.
I mean, I don t want the government deciding what you can and what you can t eat.
I still think that s your choice.
But I think Mrs. Obama being out there encouraging people in a positive way to eat well and to exercise and to be healthy, I don t have a problem with that.
Now he s trying to run for president and knows that the people he needs nationally to vote for him don t want some commie agenda of healthy eating.
After all, Eve ate the forbidden apple, but there is NOTHING in the Bible against eating Twinkies for dinner.While campaigning in Iowa on Monday, Christie told a young child in the crowd that he ll be able to eat whatever he wants if Christie were to be elected.
He told the kid: The First Lady has no business being involved in this.
Using the government to mandate her point of view on what people should be eating every day is none of her business, it just isn t. I want people to eat healthier.
I ve been trying to eat more healthy.
We all should be trying to do that.
It makes us better, makes us living longer, better quality of life, all the rest of it.
But in the end, it s your choice.
I don t care what you re eating for lunch every day.
I really don t. I want you to eat whatever your mother wants you to eat and your father want you to eat.
And if your parents want you to eat gum drops and Mountain Dew as a balanced meal, go for it.
Who cares if kids get sick from malnutrition or get diabetes and raise health costs nationwide?
At the end of the day, fruits and vegetables are yucky, and if you don t want your kid eating yucky food, vote for Chris Christie!
(please note the sarcastic tone before angry commenting)Let s get to the point here, folks.
First Lady Michelle Obama and her push of healthy eating isn t a forced agenda, it s a suggestion.
Her Let s Move campaign is also just a suggestion.
Just like former First Lady Laura Bush promoted reading, and Nancy Reagan was a against drug use, it s not a communist plot to take over the minds of our youth.
It s to suggest and promote positive actions in the lives of children.
That s all.
Calm down.
And Christie, really?
This pandering is just outright pathetic.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr)