Four months ago, Oprah, the woman who made her fortune off preying on women s emotions and counting on their inability to think for themselves, gave Hillary s vagina an endorsement.
She gave women absolutely no credible reason to support her, but reminded them, when you walk into the voting booth the choice is clear, one candidate has a vagina and the other one does not: Regardless of your politics, it s a seminal moment for women.
What this says is, there is no ceiling, that ceiling just went boom!
It says anything is possible when you can be leader of the free world.
What Oprah s essentially saying to women who hang on her every word is that it doesn t matter if you or your husband don t have a job.
It doesn t matter if you live in a town supported by coal that Hillary promised to destroy.
It doesn t matter that Hillary left our nation s top secret classified emails exposed for anyone in the world to see, simply because she believed she was above the law, or that every other person in the history of our government has been punished for less serious breaches of our national security.
Much like she tried to convince her viewers in 2008 that American needed a black President, she s now trying to convince her viewers they need to elect our first woman for President.
Am I the only woman who finds Oprah s dumbing down of women to be an insult to my intelligence?
Yesterday, Oprah weighed in on the election and gave an endorsement for Hillary that was an insult to the intelligence of every woman still clinging to her failed network.
She essentially told them, you may not be smart enough to follow the news or to understand the seriousness of the content of the emails being leaked that prove Hillary was using her position as Secretary of State to funnel money into her Clinton Foundation.
You may not even be smart enough to understand the seriousness of the recent videos released by James O Keefe of Project Veritas that show Democrats admitting to committing massive voter fraud for decades and inciting violence at Trump rallies.
You may not even be smart enough to know these people featured in the undercover videos admit that Hillary and the DNC are fully aware of, and are funding their illegal activities.
Yes, these same people are tied to Hillary who admit on tape they were responsible for the unprecedented violence a horrified America witnessed at Donald Trump s rally in her hometown of Chicago But let me tell you, that nasty woman you see on TV just ignore what you see, because, as Oprah states, She s not coming over to your house!
You don t have to like her, she said.
You don t have to like her.
Watch Oprah below.
She apparently couldn t offer her female viewers one concrete reason to vote for Hillary, so instead she focused on reasons to overlook her negatives and vote for her anyhow.
Is this really an endorsement that will help Hillary Clinton win with thinking women or will they just use her endorsement to point out to other women that Oprah couldn t even think of one good reason to vote for Hillary other than the obvious argument used for the low information voter she has a vagina.Here s a video of Hillary speaking down to a young reporter in Oprah s beloved Africa.
Maybe Oprah s decided that it s okay for women in positions of power to talk to women like this, as long as you don t invite them over for dinner: