On Sunday, Sarah Palin continued her campaign of stupidity-in-the-name-of-Trump after she did her best to Make America Great Again by using a photo of a dead hog to convince the Stupid Part of America to vote for Trump (as though they needed convincing).
In a Facebook post that may go down in the annals of history as one of her most horrifically stupid of all time (and there are a lot of them), the half-term, half-wit former Governor of Alaska attempted to woo Wisconsin voters in the most intelligent manner of which she is aware: with a picture of a dead animal.
Faith of America is in you to take us forward on Tuesday; to remain strong and independent of the status quo political establishment so your vote will truly represent your optimistic spirit and desire to WORK!
Palin babbled in her post.
Hardworking Wisconsinites deserve much better than a repeat of the establishment s agenda that led to losing this great state to Obama in 2012 by 200,000 votes!
She encouraged her supporters to say ENOUGH to the continued political games of the permanent political class, otherwise she says a Hillary Clinton presidency is assured.
Vote for Donald Trump on Tuesday to make America great again.
This is the message shared with diverse Wisconsin voters this weekend, including those of you I m thrilled to see today at Zingers and Flingers Gun Range in Wausau today at 12:30, she concluded.
See you there!
For some inexplicible reason, she punctuated this bizarre rant with a photo of a hog she apparently killed in an effort to cater to those who are obsessed with that sort of thing like a cat dragging home a mouse in an effort to make someone love it more:Recently, Palin informed Wisconsinites that America is seducing immigrant children with teddy bears and soccer balls in a speech that had those who were listening struggling to refrain from laughing at her.
While conservatives are stupid enough to listen to this babbling moron, the rest of the country (fortunately) learned long ago to ignore her.Featured image via screengrab