This morning, CNN host Chris Cuomo found himself trying to reason with a complete idiot when he had the unfortunate experience of having Donald Trump adviser Anthony Scaramucci on his show New Day.The interview didn t take long to derail as Scaramucci continued to dispute climate change and the scientific community s overwhelming consensus that man s actions have an impact on science.
Scaramucci told Cuomo: Chris, there was an overwhelming science that the earth was flat.
Cuomo was completely dumbfounded and said, It s called ignorance.
You learn over time.
He continued: I just want you to understand, it s not ideological for me.
I m just stating to you what the proposition is from the scientific community.
Scaramucci replied, But it isn t for me either.
Cuomo continued to be baffled by Scaramucci s stupidity and denial of facts.
He fired back, But you don t accept the science.
Scaramucci continued to argue with Cuomo and the rest of the scientific community.
He said, Thats not what I said.
I said I m not certain about it.
You can watch Cuomo try to talk some sense into the Trump advisor with no success below:Cuomo was pretty much talking to a wall during this exchange, and he might have been expecting too much from one of Trump s henchmen.
After all, Trump s entire team has spent its campaign denying facts and spreading falsehoods.Meanwhile, NASA s website clearly states that climate change is a real, indisputable thing that has been measured and is happening.
The site says: Multiple studies published in peer-reviewed scientific journals show that 97 percent or more of actively publishing climate scientists agree.
And this information has been documented and available for years.
In 2006, The American Association for the Advancement of Science wrote, The scientific evidence is clear: global climate change caused by human activities is occurring now, and it is a growing threat to society.
But don t expect any of Trump s minions to do any research not even a simple Google search.
They re just like Trump completely removed from reality.Featured image via screenshot