Has the Obama regime really sunk to a new low level?
Is that even possible?
What do hateful racist and anti-cop messages have to do with a dangerous deal with Iran?The White House is getting hammered for a tweet that was posted on Thursday using a popular hip hop theme for a meme promoting Obama s dangerous Iran deal.
The meme is fashioned after a popular movie poster for the movie Straight Outta Compton about the World s Most Dangerous Group, N.W.A.
who in the early 80 s used lyrics like F ck the police.
This isn t your dad s N.W.A: Dre is now 50 and a mogul, Cube is 46 and a Hollywood powerhouse.
And yeah, the guys who sang F tha Police and One Less Bitch have been married for decades.
So what s left after you poked mainstream America out of its race slumber 30 years ago?
The hot biopic Straight Outta Compton : All this shit really happened.
It s crazy how we were getting criticized for this years ago, says Dre of N.W.A s provocative songs about inner-city life.
And now, it s just like, OK, we understand.
This movie will keep shining a light on the problem, especially because of all the situations that are happening in Ferguson and here in Los Angeles.
It s definitely going to keep this situation in people s minds and make sure that everyone out there knows that this is a problem that keeps happening still today.
Hollywood ReporterHere s the official White House Twitter account for the deal posted its own version:.
@BuzzFeed And thanks to the #IranDeal, Iran will be pic.twitter.com/zEHN1EpEX7 The Iran Deal (NARA) (@TheIranDeal) August 13, 2015Here is the trailer to the Straight Outta Compton movie:In 1991, N.W.A.
was reveling in its self-described role as the World s Most Dangerous Group, condemned by politicians and law enforcement authorities alike.
Straight Outta Compton had sold some 2 million copies, and its hotly anticipated second full album Efil4zaggin (read it backwards) brought the group fresh infamy when it was released in June of that year.The album s cover showed N.W.A.
now without Cube, who had left to start a solo career in 1989 after falling out with manager Jerry Heller as ghosts rising from gunned-down corpses, and its content was no less violent or nihilistic.
Songs about violence and sex were punctuated with skits that were just as extreme; the band used the N-word some 249 times.
Having been roundly condemned as a menace to society, the group was doing its best to live up to the label.
And it worked; the album was banned from some record chains in the U.S., and British authorities, under the authority of the Obscene Publications Act, seized 25,000 copies of the album upon its release.
Critics weren t impressed.
TIME s Jay Cocks branded the album grotesque in a July 1991 review, not for its threat to the moral order but for its relentless negativity and misogyny:The fact is, Efil4zaggin is an entire open season for negative stereotyping.
That s the classic rap posture, black male division, of course: turning the comic-book white fantasy of the black male as a murderous sexual stud into a hyperbolic reality.
Rappers like N.W.A.
and Public Enemy want to scare the living hell out of white America and sell it a whole mess of records by making its worst racial nightmares come true.N.W.A.
s runaway success was driven not by street-seasoned bloods, Cocks wrote.
Instead, he continued, the group appealed to white, middle-class teenage boys thousands of miles from South Central L.A. who were looking for a way to rebel.
Via: TIMEHERE IS THE VERY EXPLICIT VIDEO F*ck The Police by NWA who our White House has chosen to tie in to their pro-Iran deal message: