Maine State Representative Scott Hamann (D) is clearly an unhinged individual who is clearly not stable or responsible enough to be making legislation decisions on behalf of the people in the South Portland district.
Hamann s Facebook post reveals just how fearful Democrats are of real change in government.
President Trump has managed to get under the skin of and expose the truth nature behind the most intolerant group of people America.
Not since the civil rights era have we seen such hatred towards anyone who is unlike them.
Unfortunately for the Democrats, the hate that these government officials and Hollywood celebrities are spewing every day isn t going to help them to regain power.
Contrary to what they believe, Americans are leaving the Democrat Party in droves, as they are waking up to the fact that these individuals are not only okay with using violence and vulgarity to shut down anyone who disagrees with them, but they are also the least tolerant and divisive group of people in America.Daily Caller -A Democratic state lawmaker in Maine appears to have made a death threat against President Trump.
Trump is a half term president, at most, especially if I ever get within 10 feet of that pussy, Rep. Scott Hamann wrote in a lengthy Facebook tirade on Tuesday.Hamann, who represents a district in South Portland and also works as project manager for a food bank, appears to have been responding to another Facebook user who expressed support for Trump.Hamann accused Trump of being anti-American, and an admitted rapist who was installed by the Russians.
Here is Rep. Scott Hamann s repulsive Facebook post:The 3-term Democrat is being asked to resign by Maine Republicans, who were furious over his Facebook post.
House Speaker Sara Gideon, D-Freeport, to take action against him.Press Herald Hamann has since removed the post from his Facebook page, but the Maine Republican Party was able to make a copy before he did so.
In the closing sentence Hamann writes, Trump is a half term president, at most, especially if I ever get within 10 feet of that pussy.
Hamann, who is serving his third term in the Legislature, also lashes out at Trump s supporters and makes reference to the president s controversial statements about women and Republican U.S. Sen. John McCain, a prisoner of war survivor who was held in Vietnam.
He s an admitted rapist, Hamann wrote of the president.
Would you be okay with leaving him alone in a room with your wife?
Demi Kouzounas, the chairwoman of the Maine Republican Party, issued a statement calling Hamann unhinged and dangerous.
Words cannot even begin to describe the level of revulsion I feel after reading Rep. Scott Hamann s recent tirade that has come to light, Kouzounas said in a prepared statement.
Perhaps the most alarming aspect of this tirade is an implied death threat against our President In a statement Wednesday, Hamann said he regretted the post.