Oh, Donald Trump.
The pathological liar has struck again, although everyone should have seen this coming.
At a rally in Daytona Beach, he made an absurd claim that he saw top secret footage of a U.S. plane unloading $400 million in payment to Iran the same day that four American detainees were released.
Of course, he later used Twitter to try and backpedal, but all he really did was admit that he lied through his teeth:The plane I saw on television was the hostage plane in Geneva, Switzerland, not the plane carrying $400 million in cash going to Iran!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 5, 2016The tape that he saw allegedly came from Iran, and he made it out to be some kind of taunt on their part: It was interesting because a tape was made.
Right?
You saw that?
With the airplane coming in nice plane and the airplane coming in, and the money coming off, I guess.
Right?
That was given to us has to be by the Iranians.
And you know why the tape was given to us?
Because they want to embarrass our country.
They want to embarrass our country.
And they want to embarrass our president because we have a president who s incompetent.
They want to embarrass our president.I mean, who would ever think they would be taking all of this money off the plane and then providing us with a tape?
It s only for one reason.
And it s very, very sad.
Oddly enough for him, intelligence officials had zero idea what he was talking about, since no such video exists.
There are two yuuuge problems with this:And he has the nerve to call Hillary Crooked Hillary, in part because of the right-wing narrative that she mishandled classified info.
As president, he ll brag about every juicy thing he sees because it makes him feel important and superior to have access to info that others don t have.
He can t wait to tell the world how much better he is than they are.On Wednesday, a spokesperson said that he d simply mistaken a grainy video of detainees being released, which played on Fox News, for this to secret video.
However, Trump made this absurd claim again on Thursday, in Portland, Maine, as if the video was part of the intelligence briefings he s getting as a presidential candidate.Those briefings have not yet begun.As his story began developing holes, and then unraveling entirely, Trump decided he had to scramble in order to avoid looking like the liar of liars caught in a lie.
His tweet is meant to make it look like he d just made a mistake.
It s in line with what his spokesperson said, but, again, the timeline is way off.All he really did was say, I lied about this, but it doesn t matter!
Sorry not sorry!
Featured image by Alex Wong/Getty Images