The word nothing-burger has been tossed around so much lately but it s best used in referring to what the Paris Accord would do to change the climate.
IT WOULD DO NEARLY NOTHING!
If you heard President Trump s speech yesterday then you know this was one of the HUGE points within his remarks.
The cost/benefit was so out of line and so unfair for America!
It s safe to say that how much the accord would change climate is a nothing burger but the total loss to America would be HUGE!Here s a list from Breitbart News of the things you can say goodbye to now that our AWESOME President has removed us from the Paris Accord:Goodbye to American Last.
The Paris agreement was basically an attempt to halt climate change on the honor system.
Its only legal requirements were for signatories to announce goals and report progress, with no international enforcement mechanism.
As a result, it was likely that the United States and wealthy European nations would have adopted and implemented severe climate change rules while many of the world s governments would avoid doing anything that would slow their own economies.
The agreement basically made the U.S. economy and Europe s strongest economies sacrificial lambs to the cause of climate change.Industrial Carnage.
The regulations necessary to implement the Paris agreement would have cost the U.S. industrial sector 1.1 million jobs, according to a study commissioned by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
These job losses would center in cement, iron and steel, and petroleum refining.
Industrial output would decline sharply.Hollowing Out Michigan, Missouri, Pennsylvania, and Ohio.
The industrial carnage would have been concentrated on four states, according to the Chamber of Commerce study.
Michigan s GDP would shrink by 0.8 percent and employment would contract by 74,000 jobs.
Missouri s GDP would shrink by 1 percent.
Ohio s GDP would contract 1.2 percent.
Pennsylvania s GDP would decline by 1.8 percent and the state would lose 140,000 jobs.Smashing Small Businesses, Helping Big Business.
Big businesses in America strongly backed the Paris climate deal.
In fact, the backers of the climate deal reads like a who s who of big American businesses: Apple, General Electric, Intel, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, General Mills, Walmart, DuPont, Unilever, and Johnson & Johnson.
These business giants can more easily cope with costly regulations than their smaller competitors and many would, in fact, find business opportunities from the changes required.
But smaller businesses and traditional start-ups would likely be hurt by the increased costs of compliance and rising energy costs.Making America Poorer Again.
A Heritage Foundation study found that the Paris agreement would have increased the electricity costs of an American family of four by between 13 percent and 20 percent annually.
It forecast a loss of income of $20,000 by 2035.
In other words, American families would be paying more while making less.Much Poorer.
The overall effect of the agreement would have been to reduce U.S. GDP by over $2.5 trillion and eliminate 400,000 jobs by 2035, according to Heritage s study.
This would exacerbate problems with government funding and deficits, make Social Security solvency more challenging, and increase reliance on government s spending to support households.