Ted Cruz is a piece of sh*t. Most of the country has known this a long time after observing his rampant homophobia, his willingness to shut down the government every time something happens that he doesn t like, and his general douchebaggery.
Crus s former roommate pointed out earlier in the election season that it has always been this way.
After all, he used to make female college students uncomfortable by hanging out near their dorms in a bathrobe and his classmates even had a name for the greasy film he leaves behind on everything he touches.
Cruz, who ate a throat booger on national television and ended his campaign by elbowing his wife in the face, is so awful even his own daughter has trouble stomaching a forced touching family moment for the cameras.But Republicans couldn t seem to see how terrible he really is until his speech at the 2016 Republican National Convention, that is.
On Wednesday, the defeated 2016 Stupid Party contender stood on stage and proudly endorsed Donald Trump s wall, but while many were expecting him to endorse the billionaire himself, they were disappointed.
And to those listening, please, don t stay home in November, Cruz said, falling short of endorsing The Donald.
Stand, and speak, and vote your conscience, vote for candidates up and down the ticket who you trust to defend our freedom and to be faithful to the Constitution.
Naturally, this angered many Republicans including, apparently, GOP megadonor Sheldon Adelson.
When Cruz tried to approach Adelson s suite, he was turned away at the door.
Cruz was initially invited to join the Adelsons, but a senior aide to the Las Vegas casino magnate says that invite was rescinded when Cruz failed to endorse Trump.
When he didn t endorse, they were stunned and disappointed, Adelson aide Andy Abboud told CNN.
We could not allow Ted Cruz to use the Adelsons as a prop against Donald Trump.
The Adelsons support Donald Trump and made that clear.
They like Ted Cruz, but there was no way the Adelsons were going to be the first stop after not endorsing, he continued.
That would be disrespectful to our nominee.
Abboud then tweeted a photo of the Adelsons with Trump just to rub a little salt in the wound:The Adelson s with their choice for President!
pic.twitter.com/gYsHBeT9AS Andy Abboud (@AndyAbboud) July 21, 2016After the speech, Trump went on the attack, as well:Wow, Ted Cruz got booed off the stage, didn't honor the pledge!
I saw his speech two hours early but let him speak anyway.
No big deal!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 21, 2016Hillary Clinton seized on the turmoil to encourage people to vote for her:Vote your conscience.
https://t.co/xahMq2sU1q Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 21, 2016An unnamed former Senator gave a more direct reason for why Cruz was turned away, one with which we can all agree:For his part, the Texas Senator says he is not surprised with the reaction after committing what Trump Lawyer Michael Cohen called political suicide.
He expected people to not approve, a source close to Cruz told CNN.
Not surprised at the reaction.
Watch Cruz s speech below, if you can stomach looking at his face for more than a few seconds:Featured image via screengrab