At a Hillary Clinton rally in Greensboro, NC on Tuesday evening, President Obama took the stage to praise his former Secretary of State, but also to address the horrible comments Donald Trump was heard saying on video 11 years ago.In the tapes, Trump was about to appear on Access Hollywood.
He was talking to co-host Billy Bush and the rhetoric was both lewd and it described sexual assault.
Here s part of it: I ve got to use some Tic Tacs, just in case I start kissing her, Trump says.
You know I m automatically attracted to beautiful I just start kissing them.
It s like a magnet.
Just kiss.
I don t even wait.
And when you re a star, they let you do it, Trump says.
You can do anything.
Whatever you want, says another voice, apparently Bush s. Grab them by the p y, Trump says.
You can do anything.
President Obama, like any decent human being, was offended.
He is also offended at the paternalistic reaction of Republicans, who tend to be offended, instead of as human beings, as fathers or as husbands.You don t have to be a husband or a father to hear what we heard just a few days ago and say, that s not right.
You just have to be a decent human being to say, that s not right, Obama said at a rally in Greensboro, N.C., for Hillary Clinton.Here s the video:.
@POTUS: Don t have to be husband or father to object to Trump comments, you just have to be a decent human being https://t.co/GhBJX17w9c ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 11, 2016This isn t the first time Obama has spoken out about the video.
On Sunday, the President said that Trump couldn t even get a job at 7/11 with his background.
The guy says stuff no would find tolerable if you were applying to a job at 7/11, he said of the Republican presidential nominee.
[Trump] doesn t have the temperament or the judgement or the knowledge or apparently the desire to obtain the knowledge or the basic honesty required to be president.
That was true before we heard what he said about women.
Donald Trump is running for one of the most important jobs in the world.
He s not taking it seriously and neither are his supporters.
Trump s sense of entitlement was evident long before he admitted to being a sexual predator.
Now, let s hope he doesn t do to the nation what he s done to countless women.Featured image via video screen capture.