No one should be surprised about this, but it was recently discovered that Donald Trump was displaying fake Time magazines featuring himself as the cover star in his golf clubs.
These fake magazine covers, dated March 1, 2009, were discovered in at least four of his golf clubs, painting the picture of a very, very mentally ill man.In response to this cringeworthy news, Time magazine has asked the Trump Organization to remove the magazine covers which are framed from its golf clubs.UPDATE: @time has asked the @realdonaldtrump s businesses to remove the phony magazine covers from their walls.
https://t.co/beJXOTrevb David Fahrenthold (@Fahrenthold) June 27, 2017The fake cover s headline reads, Trump is hitting on all fronts even TV!
which is exactly what you would expect from Trump.
This is how the fake magazines covers are being displayed:Photo via screen captureRevealing that the real Time magazine for March 2009 had featured actress Kate Winslet, a spokesperson for Time magazine said of Trump s version: I can confirm that this is not a real TIME cover.
As you can imagine, the internet erupted once Trump s weird ego-stroking tactic made its rounds.
Even politicians, such as Democrat Gerald Edward Connolly, got in on mocking Trump.
Connolly even came up with his own fake magazine cover:Wow, my first cover of Time.
Asked my staff to frame this and hang it in all four of my offices.
@realDonaldTrump https://t.co/Hx57ZJExR8 pic.twitter.com/y1HciTB5G1 Gerry Connolly (@GerryConnolly) June 27, 2017And many other Twitter users tore Trump to shreds with more fake covers, like these hilarious responses:Mine is totes real, tho pic.twitter.com/k1nIXkUxWj LardOfDorkness (@LardFDorkness) June 27, 2017The real one has been found!
pic.twitter.com/nG0OvVJTcx Carol at the NC (@carol_NC66) June 28, 2017Clearly, Trump is going to regret that those fake covers ever saw the light of day.
Trump has only been featured on Time magazine s cover once, and it was in 1989, way before he entered politics.
Thanks to this fiasco, Trump can pretty much be sure that he will never appear in a favorable light on the cover again!Featured image via Pool / Getty Images