Two months before the 2016 election, Teen Vogue featured a personal essay by Hillary Clinton, a conversation between Amandla Stenberg and Gloria Steinem, and an interview with Loretta Lynch.In their latest grotesque attempt to make immoral behavior appear to be mainstream for young girls, Teen Vogue asks their young readers.
In the article, Gigi Engle suggests that young girls stay away from the internet when it comes to exploring the topic of anal sex and instead, rely strictly on Teen Vogue for all of their information.
Hmmmm .that s an interesting concept; don t read anything else, just rely on Teen Vogue as your sole source of information.
Sounds like indoctrination 101.Here s an excerpt from the article one might expect to find in Penthouse magazine:Teen Vogue When it comes to your body, it s important that you have the facts.
It s not doing your sexual health or self-understanding any favors to keep you in the dark.With that sentiment in mind, we re here to lay it all out for you when it comes to anal sex.Why anal?Anal sex, though often stigmatized and shamed, is a perfectly natural way to engage in sexual activity.
People have been having anal sex since the dawn of humanity.
Seriously, it s been documented back to the Ancient Greeks and then some.
So, if you re a little worried about trying it, or are having trouble understanding the appeal, just know that it isn t weird or gross.In a separate article, Vogue Magazine talks about a makeup manufacturer offering butt-plugs :OMG https://t.co/Wu0nbw3Wf3 Teen Vogue (@TeenVogue) July 11, 2017Teen Vogue is filled with anti-Trump and anti-Republican propaganda.
Scroll through their Twitter feed and you ll be hard pressed to find an article about fashion, makeup tips or how to handle mean girls in middle and high school.
Articles like the one below are designed to incite anger and hate towards anyone who doesn t agree with the writers point of view, yet Teen Vogue is being passed off as Vogue magazine for teens.
"Tragically, the quality of education around the world is too often determined by race, gender, and zip code."
https://t.co/OEKzvOomK5 Teen Vogue (@TeenVogue) July 11, 2017Here s the same article with a different Tweet that s designed to incite hate and anger towards President Trump and his administration.
"This is beyond discriminating against communities of color and low-income students; this is cruel."
https://t.co/bmCOGvStJa Teen Vogue (@TeenVogue) July 10, 2017How did Teen Vogue become such a radical leftist indoctrination tool for teens?The Atlantic In May, 29-year-old Elaine Welteroth took over as editor from Amy Astley, who helped found the magazine in 2003.
Welteroth, the digital editorial director Phillip Picardi, and the creative director Marie Suter have moved the magazine more aggressively into covering politics, feminism, identity, and activism.
Together, the three have shepherded a range of timely, newsy stories, including an interview exploring what it s like to be a Muslim woman facing a Trump presidency, a list of reasons why Mike Pence s record on women s rights and LGBTQ rights should trouble readers, and a video in which two Native American teenagers from the Standing Rock Sioux tribe discuss the Dakota Access Pipeline protests.Teen Vogue was founded in 2003 at the behest of Vogue s editor-in-chief, Anna Wintour, who tasked Astley, the magazine s beauty editor at the time, to conceive test issues of a spinoff publication for teens.
The publication s early focus was fashion.
We are going to do what we do well, which is fashion, beauty, and style, Astley told The New York Times s David Carr shortly before its launch.
A lot of other teen magazines are focused on relationships, boys, sex, and embarrassing moments.
That is not our equity.
At the time, Carr noted, many rival teen publications were struggling.
And since Teen Vogue debuted, a number of them Elle Girl, CosmoGirl!, Teen People, Teen have folded.
* One of the challenges is that teen audiences tend to evolve faster than the adults catering to them can catch up.
It s always been such a volatile market because your audience morphs so rapidly, John Harrington, a publishing consultant, told The Times in 2013.
The genius of the current iteration of Teen Vogue is that it s caught on to its current readers enthusiasm for topical issues in a timely enough fashion to actually engage them.
I think in 2016 we found our footing and our voice as a publication in a strong way, Picardi, the publication s digital editorial director, told me via email.
Obviously, the election has provided unique circumstances and a real need for someone to dissect the news for young people.
Since we are, in particular, a brand that speaks directly to millions of young women, we have a responsibility to do right by them and view the news through that very specific lens.