Terrified and unable to accept that he s destroyed almost all chances of winning this election, Republican nominee Donald Trump is STILL whining that everything is rigged from claims of media bias, sabotaged debate microphones, dishonest polls, and voter fraud.
Trump isn t letting it go, and even his own party isn t willing to support him on his ridiculous claims anymore.
Earlier Monday, Trump tweeted: Of course there is large scale voter fraud happening on and before election day.
Why do Republican leaders deny what is going on?
So naive!
Well, someone came forward to put Trump s lies to rest once and for all.
Election law expert Rick Hasen finally had enough of Trump s idiocy and issued some brutal fact-checking on Twitter.
Hasen was the perfect person to come forward and annihilate Trump he s spent his career studying voter fraud, and was more than qualified to drop this brilliant truth bomb on unsuspecting Trump.
In an epic Tweetstorm, Hasen ripped Trump a new one and proved that Trump s fear mongering about voter fraud has been taken way out of proportion and is a blatant exaggeration:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterAnd these are only a FEW of the tweets of Hasen slamming Trump.
You can see the full sh*tshow here.
Hasen didn t stop with a social media rant, either he wroteHasen didn t stop with a social media rant, either he wrote a scathing op-ed on Talking Points Memo: Claims of voter fraud are often exaggerated by orders of magnitude.
Consider the claims about non-citizen voting.
Matt Drudge recently had a headline stating: Report: 1,000+ Illegal Voters in Virginia.
And Dan Scavino, Jr. tweeted: Terrible.
We know who the 1,000+ illegal aliens ARE NOT VOTING FOR!
A fixed presidential election in the making .will we ever know!?!?
But if you look at the underlying report, they have identified only 31 actual non-citizen voters in Virginia over the last 10 years.
No doubt there are some more, as not all the counties have responded yet.
But it is not 1,000 plus non-citizens voting in Va. ( In the 8 jurisdictions that provided us with lists of aliens recently removed from their voter rolls, we discovered that 31 non-citizens had cast a total of 186 votes between 2005 and 2015.
The most alien votes were cast in 2012 followed by 2008, the year President Obama was elected to his first term.
(emphasis omitted)).
Don t believe all the hype.
Non-citizen voting is a real, but pretty small, problem (because the penalties are high and the payoff low).
Unfortunately, we know Trump isn t going to shut up because he only gets louder after being proven wrong.
Thank goodness we only have to tolerate a few more weeks of him.Featured image via Jeff Swensen / Getty Images