Soros paid protesters who blocked streets and created mass chaos in big cities cashed in before the election of President Trump.
For the most part, when protesters blocked miles of traffic in large cities, law enforcement officers, who were also their target (thanks to another Soros-Obama effort) protected them from being unintentionally struck by vehicles on roads and highways they were blocking.
Stories of people rushing to the hospital or trying to make it to work on time were circulating all over social media.
Of course the mainstream media and leftist news sources were in collusion with Democrats in their efforts to threaten and shame Americans who dared to support Trump.
They foolishly believed their violent and unlawful behavior would sway voters.
In addition to putting people s lives in danger, In the end, Obama and George Soros thugs turned a lot of people away from the polls, as many Democrat and independent voters didn t want to be tied to a party they no longer recognized.Watch protesters yell, Whose streets?
Our streets!
:Just before the midnight curfew in #CLT the crowd is at the Square chanting.
Doesn t look like they want to go home.
#KeithScottA post shared by David Boraks (@davidboraks) on Sep 23, 2016 at 8:56pm PDTWatch anti-Trump Antifa terrorists take over major streets in DC chanting Our streets!
NC lawmakers are taking action to protect innocent drivers who encounter protesters who think jumping in front of traffic is a great way to protest.
And oh yeah they re not your streets the streets belong to all Americans.WFAE Stop me if you ve heard this one before.
The North Carolina House has passed a bill that is sure to bring controversy.This measure shields drivers who hit protesters from lawsuits.Last year, in the wake of the killing of Keith Lamont Scott, protesters took over Charlotte city streets, even marching down sections of I-277 and I-85.The often chanted Who s street?
Our street!
All this caught the attention of Republican Representative Justin Burr of Montgomery County.
As we ve seen, time and time again, as folks run out in the middle of the streets and the interstates in Charlotte and attempt to block traffic, Burr said as he introduced the bill.
He wants to ensure drivers don t have to fear driving through Charlotte or anywhere in North Carolina.
Now there are many ways this could be done.But Burr decided to go in a controversial direction with House Bill 330.He explains the bill this way, provides that a person driving an automobile while exercising due care is immune for civil liability for any injury to another if the injured person was participating in a demonstration or protest and blocking traffic.
Translation: a driver who hits, or even runs over, a protester on a street could be shielded from lawsuits by the person they injure.But Burr wanted to be clear on one point.
Now this bill does not allow for a driver of a vehicle to target protesters intentionally.
That obviously is not the intention.
Watch what happens here when protesters block a car that is on its way to St. Jude s Children s Hospital with a sick child: In other words, if you were trying to get from point A to point B and you just happen to hit a protester, or more, while driving through a demonstration, you would be protected from civil lawsuits.
We all know this is being done to try to make a point about protests, said Democrat Greg Meyer.
He s just one of the lawmakers who saw a problem with this bill.
It is just going to embarrass us.
There is no good reason to pass this bill.
The bill has passed the North Carolina House.
It now heads to the Senate.