This church congregation should be ashamed.After all, it was a year ago that Watermark Community Church sent a letter to Jason Thomas formally rejecting him as a member of the church simply because he is gay.
In our attempt to shepherd you, we have recognized a destructive pattern that prohibits us in caring for you and playing the role you desire for us to have in your life, the letter stated.
Specifically, your desire to actively participate in a same-sex relationship with another man, and your unwillingness to heed biblical counsel from your church to turn from that relationship, has made it exceedingly difficult to shepherd you during this time.
The church goes on to claim in the letter that they value the way God has uniquely formed you, but wants him to change by following the church s counsel and to meet a person named Brandon who has similar homosexual feelings.
Notice how the church literally outed Brandon?Anyway, Jason clearly was not welcome back to the church unless he agreed to be someone he is not so he stayed far away.
One year later, Jason is happy and is comfortable with who he is and with his sexuality.
So he wrote a reply to Watermark Community Church informing them that their choice to reject him was the best thing that could have happened to him.Here s is the full letter via Pink News.Dear Watermark Community Church,Today I celebrate a very interesting anniversary with you.
It was exactly one year ago when you told me that I was no longer worthy to serve, be in a community group, and be a member of your church.I spent years in your church battling against my homosexuality.
I believed with all my heart that God would change me; I prayed for change almost daily.
But when I wasn t able to change, you turned your back on me.You say our sin is not unique, but you treat us in a unique manner; this is unacceptable behaviour.
We are actual people that have actual feelings.Here we are a year later and you are still doing to others what you did to me.
You are tarnishing the name of God to Christians and non-Christians alike; you should be ashamed of yourselves!
Do not forget, Jesus was angry with people just like you who said certain groups of people were not worthy to be followers of Him.Thank you for removing yourself from my life!
I am who God made me to be.
I cannot change my sexual orientation and nor would I want to.
I now have internal peace and happiness unlike ever before.Jason ThomasIndeed, while this church is busy persecuting people for being gay, there are almost certainly many members of the church who commit adultery or other sins on a daily basis who are not being rejected by the church like Jason.
Even the church elders are not without sin yet they are busy hypocritically casting stones at people who are gay.Watermark responded to Jason by telling the Dallas News that, An individual s formal relationship with us as a member is only changed when someone no longer desires to resist sin and refuses our help, care and encouragement.
Even if someone s formal membership status is removed, they are always welcome to attend Watermark and be reminded of the grace and truth of our savior Jesus Christ.
Yeah, that s complete bullshit and is exactly why more and more people are no longer attending church.
Jesus said love thy neighbor as thyself, but apparently this church isn t a fan of Jesus teachings, which did not include ostracizing gay people.Featured Image: i.ytimg.com