Hello Megyn Kelly!
Time for a little karma!
Word on the street is that Megyn Kelly will not be welcomed back at FOX News even if she comes crawling back from NBC.She s had a rocky start at NBC with her Putin interview and now with the much-hyped Alex Jones interview.
You d think the controversy surrounding her contentious interview with Jones would pump up the ratings but it didn t. Perhaps it s because she s become so unlikeable on camera with her snarky questioning and cold as ice demeanor.Even if she comes calling at FOX, it s a no go according to Breitbart news: After Kelly s controversial and much-hyped interview with Alex Jones tanked by again failing to beat out reruns of 60 Minutes and America s Funniest Home Videos, New York radio host Mark Simone tweeted on Monday that NBC is trying to unload Kelly and convince Fox News to take her back.But a high-ranking Fox News source told Breitbart News that there is no way Kelly could come back to the network.
Quite simply, the source told Breitbart News, Kelly would not be welcomed back.
Simone also suggested that if Kelly becomes more toxic and her ratings tank even more, NBC will have to take her off the network, and if they are stuck with her, they ll give her an MSNBC show.
Before she bolted to NBC, Kelly anchored The Kelly File on Fox News.
During the 2016 election cycle, Kelly won praise from mainstream media journalists when she tried to undercut Donald Trump during the first Republican presidential debate in August of 2015 in Cleveland, Ohio.
She also gave Never Trumpers a forum on her primetime show to constantly slam Trump throughout the election cycle.And as the Daily Beast s Lloyd Grove noted, Kelly also hastened Roger Ailes forced resignation last July with her fateful decision to recount his misconduct to a team of lawyers hired by 21st Century Fox to investigate allegations made in the sexual harassment and retaliation lawsuit filed by Fox News anchor Gretchen Carlson.
New York magazine s Gabriel Sherman reported that Kelly told investigators that Ailes made unwanted sexual advances toward her about ten years ago when she was a young correspondent at Fox.
As Grove pointed out, Kelly, in her book, said there was some poetic justice in the role she played in helping boot Ailes out of Fox News.
I worked my tail off I established myself as a serious person, Kelly wrote.
I built my own power.
And when the allegations against Roger hit, I used it.
Perhaps there is some poetic justice in that.
NBC reportedly invested nearly $20 million a year to bring Kelly to the network, and NBC s investment has not paid any dividends at all.
After her interview with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Kelly was mocked for being way out of her league.
And when HuffPost obtained the full unedited interview in which a nervous Kelly lobbed Putin softballs, Kelly was subjected to another round of criticism.Her interview with Jones did not have any news value and may have damaged NBC s and her reputation more than it helped.You know what they say about KARMA it s a B*tch!Read more: Breitbart News