While Donald Trump may have bribed Carrier into keeping some 800 jobs in the United States with millions of dollars in tax breaks and other incentives a dangerous precedent, as companies now know they only need to threaten to move out of the United States to get massive gifts from the Trump administration one thing he doesn t even acknowledge is that more jobs will still be going to Mexico than will stay in the United States.In a deal that even stalwart Trump supporter calls a hallmark of corruption and crony capitalism, Trump and Pence offered the company $7 million to keep a small portion of the jobs they planned to move across the border in Indiana.
The problem is that the company will still be moving 1,300 jobs Trump and his crew refuse to speak about.
But Carrier was forthright with employees in a companywide letter explaining The Donald s attempt to deceive the American public into thinking he was doing some actual good.
While this announcement is good news for many, we recognize it is not good news for everyone, the letter tells employees.
Carrier explains that regardless of any deal with Trump they intend to move forward with previously unannounced plans to relocate 1,300 jobs to Mexico by the end of the year.
We recognize that this has been very difficult for your families, the letter says, praising employees for continuing to work even knowing the company intended to f*ck them over with or without Donald Trump s input.
We greatly appreciate this and sincerely thank you for all your efforts.
Breaking: Carrier confirms in letter to workers that fan coil jobs will "relocate" to Mexico by end of 2017.
@rtv6 @IndyThisWeek pic.twitter.com/pcHo5ZPuh4 Rafael S nchez (@RafaelOnTV) December 2, 2016Trump s dangerous decision to show companies that he will give them special favors if they merely threaten to take jobs elsewhere will have far-reaching impact, but the Wall Street Journal says that another aspect of the deal Trump s threats against the company if they didn t comply is far more dangerous than the bribe:Mr. Trump s Carrier squeeze might even cost more U.S. jobs if it makes CEOs more reluctant to build plants in the U.S. because it would be politically difficult to close them.Yes, more jobs were lost than were saved and yes, Trump just set a precedent for providing financial gifts to companies who threaten to take jobs elsewhere, but Trump has managed to make it dangerous for companies to bring jobs here while he is President something that we can expect will cause a lot of damage down the road.Featured image via Getty Images (Tom Pennington)/screengrab