If someone had called Ronald Reagan un-American for taking on Russia, Republicans would have thrown a hissy fit.But President Obama is a black Democrat and the Republican Party has become the Party of Putin, so of course, conservatives like Kellyanne Conway would question Obama s patriotism for defending our country.During an interview on Fox News, Conway whined about President Obama pursuing an investigation of Russian interference in our political process.As we all know, Donald Trump openly encouraged Russia to commit espionage against our country when their hack of the DNC was revealed this past summer.
I will tell you this, Russia: If you re listening, I hope you re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing, Trump said in July.
I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.
Here s the video via YouTube.And they obeyed, continually hacking our institutions in an effort to help Trump win the presidency so Putin would have a puppet in the White House.White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest pointed out that Trump knew about Russian meddling all along, and President Obama has promised swift retribution against Russia.But Conway is still pretending that Russia didn t do anything to help Trump and accused President Obama of not loving America because he is unwilling to ignore Russia s crimes.
She even demanded that Obama shut down the investigation and pretend the election interference never happened.
If you want to shut this down and you actually love the country enough to have the peaceful transition in our great democracy between the Obama administration and the Trump administration, there are a couple people in pretty prominent positions, one is named Obama, one is named Hillary Clinton, since his people are trying to fight over her election still, they could shut this down.
Here s the video via YouTube.Ignoring Russia s clear espionage against the United States would be a total disservice to the American people and would only embolden Russia and other nations to interfere in our political process in future elections.
Allowing Trump to be president would also embolden Republicans to seek foreign help in future elections as well.
In short, Republicans are happy to allow another country to spread propaganda and violate the integrity of our elections as long as it helps them stay in power.If anyone is anti-American, it s Kellyanne Conway and Donald Trump.
They re the ones defending Putin and Russia instead of backing an investigation.
They are the ones defending Russian espionage against America.
And the only reason they want to bury it is because they know Trump is an illegitimate president-elect.Featured Image: Screenshot