While on the campaign trail, reality show star Donald Trump vowed that he would build a wall on the U.S. southern border, and that Mexico would pay for it.
Chants rang out from his supporters at each rally to Build that wall!
but his promise is now crumbling before his fans eyes.
Firstly, it s an expensive endeavor, one that is expected to cost up to $38 billion.
And Mexico will not pay for it.
We will.
Taxpayers will be footing the bill for his wall.
Yet, the president-elect now says that it will be built, and Mexico will pay for it later.
And now, even Republicans know that he s full of it.A number of Republicans interviewed by CNN suggested that Trump s claim amounted to wishful thinking, saying they believe the alleged billionaire would ultimately backtrack on one of his central campaign promises.
I doubt that they re going to pay for it, said Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch.
There s a lot he could do if he wanted to (force Mexico s hand).
In all honesty, I don t think that s going to happen.
Rep. Mike Coffman, a Colorado Republican, said, I never thought that would happen.
I thought it was a gimmick.
Trump will face a backlash if he fails to keep his promise.
I m for building a wall, said Rep. Mo Brooks.
And I m for Donald Trump keeping his promise to the American people that Mexico pay for it.
The Alabama lawmaker added that that he would be disappointed if Trump failed to deliver.Oh, those crazy fiscal conservatives.
:House GOP sources tell CNN that Trump s transition team has urged Republican leaders to include funding for the wall in a spending package that must pass by April 28 in order to keep the government open.
The price tag is uncertain, but some similar proposals have been projected to cost upwards of $10 billion.
We re going to get reimbursed, Trump told The New York Times.
But I don t want to wait that long.
But you start, and then you get reimbursed.
Sure we will, Sport.
Just like his contractors were reimbursed while still waiting for that check that will never happen.Mexico will not pay for the wall.
Hillary Clinton will not be locked up.
The swamp is being filled up with terrifying creatures.
Trump supporters were played for suckers and the rest of us will be paying for their hot mess with our tax dollars.Photo by Win McNamee via Getty Images