Taya Kyle, the widow of infamous American Sniper Chris Kyle, attended CNN s Guns in America town hall Thursday, where she grilled President Obama on his executive actions regarding gun control and safety.
Mrs Kyle, who received the thank you right-wingers said would never come from the president for her husband s service, took to the moment like a champ, managing to squeeze every conservative talking point possible into a few short minutes.A somewhat bizarre moment came when she told the president we can t outlaw murder.
She presumably meant that there s no way to stop all murders from happening, so why bother trying if it will inconvenience someone with a 10-minute background check: The thing is that the laws that we create don t stop these horrific things from happening, right and that s a very tough pill to swallow.
We want to think we can make a law and people will follow it, but by the very nature of their crimes they are not following it.
By the very nature of looking at the people who hurt our loved ones here, I don t know any of them would have been stopped by the background check and yet, I crave that desire for hope, too.
Part of it is we have to recognize that we cannot outlaw murder, because the people who are murdering, right, are they are breaking the law but they also don t have a moral code that we have, so they could do the same amount of damage with a pipe bomb.
Mrs. Kyle and those who think like her probably thought her point was some form of a slam-dunk that the president wouldn t be able to answer.
That turned out to not be the case, as her argument is based in NRA myths and lies and not in the reality that we all live every day.She does make some interesting points about the direction the country has been traveling when it comes to violent crime but stops short of reasonable when she says we should be celebrating the dropping murder rates in our country.
The president agreed that we don t put enough emphasis on the good that we ve done, but that s because there s still so much horror happening every day.He s right.
We can t simply say, hooray for us, we kill fewer people than we did in 1985, let s stop worrying about it!
We have to remain vigilant and continue to institute policies that will bring the violent crime rates even lower over the NEXT 2 decades as well.
The president s actions are a part of that plan and a part of his ongoing commitment to make America safer.Watch the entire exchange between President Obama and American Sniper widow Taya Kyle below:Featured image via screen capture