During an interview with a BBC Live Host, a Texas gun advocate defended his state s new gun law policies by saying that the only way to stop gun violence is to arm more people.
C.J.
Grisham, president of the gun advocacy group Open Carry Texas and a candidate for the state senate believes that law-abiding citizens should be able to access guns easily in order to counter those who have them illegally.
He said: You can pass all the background checks you want, but a criminal gang member in Chicago isn t going to run a background check on another gang member.
The host then interrupted Grisham and asked: Sorry.
How many of the mass college shootings were carried out by criminal gang members?
Grisham responds, Well they were all carried out by criminals, not licensed carriers.
The host then asks, So how did those people manage to access the weaponry that led to all of those deaths then?
Illegally.
That s what I m saying, said Grisham.The host continues to drill Grisham by asking, How do you tighten that up then?
Grisham s response is ridiculous: Well, you can t stop all crime.
You tighten it up by getting rid of gun-free zones and allowing people to defend themselves no matter where they walk, no matter where they go, no matter where they study.
So, just to be clear, C.J.
asked the host, The solution is actually having more guns in circulation in America.
Therefore, when a Columbine happens, a teacher can open fire in a classroom against the assailant.
So, guns in classrooms?
You advocate that?
Well, there s already guns in classrooms.
It s just that they re in the hands of criminals and the good guys can t defend themselves, said Grisham.The guns used in the Columbine shooting were bought from an unlicensed private seller.
The guns: Were all purchased for them by Dylan Klebold s girlfriend, 18-year-old Columbine student Robyn Anderson, who accompanied the two 17-year-olds to the Tanner Gun Show outside Denver, shopping with their cash.
She was what is called a straw purchaser, but it would not have been necessary, since youths were allowed to buy rifles and shotguns in Colorado and no background checks are necessary when guns are sold by individuals rather than federally-licensed gun dealers.
President Obama is currently proposing laws that would crack down on that type of easy access.Grisham s logic is very flawed.
His idea is that if a person is in possession of a gun, then that person is likely to be safer in an unsafe situation.
However, a gun is more likely to discharge accidentally in the home or be used by a family member against another family member rather than against an intruder.
The reality is that the more guns are around, the more likely the gun will not be used for self-defense against a criminal.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQKpAmC3ASk]Feature Image Via YouTube