Best known for her roll in the TV show Charmed, actress Rose McGowan is a patriot, but not in the sleeps-with-an-AR-15 sense.
McGowan loves our country and when she sees a danger, like Donald Trump, she speaks out, and when she speaks out, she doesn t mince words.In a Facebook post she emailed to all the major TV networks and to the Trump campaign, McGowan accused Trump of poisoning us, and the networks of being complicit in allowing Trump to do so.
She also called Trump a murderer in the making, after his controversial comments in which he begged his 2nd Amendment followers to do something about Hillary Clinton.She called Trump a disease :After the Republican National Convention I wrote an open letter to a rabid Trump supporter.
I realize now the letter was for you, Donald and media men.
It s you I ve been wanting to talk to.
You who have been stressing me and most of the nation out to the point of a diagnosable sickness.
WE ARE BEING POISONED.
We, the public, are being sickened by an ever expanding assault on our right to live a healthy and free life.
Donald & you ratings driven colluders, are holding us the public hostage and exposing us to disease.
A massive DISease.Our symptoms are knots in our shoulders, sick feelings in the pit of our vaginas, stomach tightness, shortness of breath, wildly elevated stress levels- we are now chronically experiencing a true mass illness.McGowan is genuinely frightened of Trump and his followers, calling his campaign a daily reign of terror.
She also begged the media not to cover the billionaire, which will never happen because he does bring in ratings.Here s the entire Facebook post:Her Twitter feed has been no less brutal:You are a criminal, Donald Trump.
Well played, Republicans, well played.
You are endorsing a home grown terrorist.
rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) August 10, 2016 You disgusting creep Trump s Assassination Dog Whistle Was Even Scarier Than You Think https://t.co/Gfniw6aPHX via @RollingStone rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) August 10, 2016Donald Trump called for the ultimate violence against a woman.Who are these brainwashed women that want to https://t.co/5VD9X3QMXY rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) August 9, 2016This isn t the first time McGowan has dipped her foot into this year s presidential election.
Last month, she famously got into a twitter war with has-been actor and Trump supporter, Scott Baio.
She wrote him an open letter too, calling him below average and full of fear.
Featured image via Michael Loccisano at Getty Images.