CNN is reporting that Trump s disgraced national security adviser, Gen. Michael Flynn, may be the key to blowing apart the Russia scandal.
Three of four key people, including Carter Page, Roger Stone and Paul Manafort, who have their own suspicious ties to Russia, have volunteered to speak to the House Intelligence Committee, but we haven t heard from Flynn recently.
CNN s sources explain why: It is starting to look like, from my sources and then also from open reporting, that Mike Flynn is the one who may have a deal with the FBI, and that s why we have not heard from him for some time.
It sounds somewhat uncertain and it is right now.
However, Seth Abramson, who s an attorney and also a professor at the University of New Hampshire, broke it down this way:(1) First, as an attorney I want to make clear that, if this @CNN analyst s sources are correct, the #Russiagate scandal is blown wide open.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(2) The FBI flips witnesses, turning them into cooperating individuals, _only_ when they can help secure conviction of a bigger target.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(3) Michael Flynn was the National Security Adviser for the President of the United States.
The only _bigger_ target is Donald J. Trump.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(4) But Flynn also held a clandestine meeting with Russian ambassador/spy Sergey Kislyak and Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner in December 16.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(5) And Flynn coordinated with infamous Iran-Contra figure and Russian oil/gas pipeline advocate Bud McFarlane in hiring Trump s Deputy NSA.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(6) And of course Flynn had the highest possible clearance and greatest possible access to POTUS in discussing matters of national security.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(7) Flynn s hire as NSA was controversial even suspicious when it was made due to Flynn s absolutely _terrible_ reputation in Washington.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(8) This suggests the hire wasn t based on merit, but rather the fact that Flynn is _known_ to have ties (in-person ties) to Vladimir Putin.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(9) We should conclude from the foregoing that Flynn was in the best position of _anyone_ involved in #Russiagate to see _all_ its contours.
Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017(10) Given all of the above, we can say that if any one person could bring down Trump due to #Russiagate, it s the man the FBI may now have.
pic.twitter.com/sLwjBTVTcF Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) March 25, 2017There are reports that Flynn s spokesperson has said that Flynn will neither confirm nor deny whether he s cooperating with the FBI at this time.This is a developing story that s worth keeping an eye on, because this scandal is snowballing as more information comes out.
Should CNN s story come to pass, then everyone involved, including Trump, will be in a world of shit.Even Devin Nunes, who keeps insisting that finding the leakers is mre important than getting to the bottom of the scandal, won t be able to maintain his position.Featured image by Kevin Hagen via Getty Images