In the aftermath of the Orlando shooting, there has been yet another unfounded uprising of hate and fear against the Muslim community.
Donald Trump is even calling, once more, for a ban on all Muslim immigrants.With a lot to say on this matter is none other than comedian Aziz Ansari, whose parents just so happen to be Muslim immigrants.
He wrote a piece for the New York Times, and called out Trump s hatred where it stands.In the intro to his article on Twitter, Ansari just flat-out told Trump to go f*ck himself.
Trump wants to ban Muslim immigrants like my parents.
I wrote a piece for New York Times telling him to go fuck himself.
Trump wants to ban Muslim immigrants like my parents.
I wrote a piece for @NYTimes telling him to go fuck himself: https://t.co/MCDsQyz2jy Aziz Ansari (@azizansari) June 24, 2016Within the article, which you can find in full here, Ansari wrote: Today, with the presidential candidate Donald J. Trump and others like him spewing hate speech, prejudice is reaching new levels.
It s visceral, and scary, and it affects how people live, work and pray.
It makes me afraid for my family.
It also makes no sense.
He explains that he s the son of Muslim immigrants, and how his family is now told to be careful in how they worship.
Also explaining, that as American citizens, that is absolutely awful.
We have the freedom of religion in this nation, and everyone has a right to worship how they so choose on their own time.Ansari wrote that despite not being religious himself, even looking like you might be Muslim can make you a target of discrimination: There is a strange feeling that you must almost prove yourself worthy of feeling sad and scared like everyone else.
He added: The vitriolic and hate-filled rhetoric coming from Mr. Trump isn t so far off from cursing at strangers from a car window.
He has said that people in the American Muslim community know who the bad ones are, implying that millions of innocent people are somehow complicit in awful attacks.
Not only is this wrongheaded; but it also does nothing to address the real problems posed by terrorist attacks.
By Mr. Trump s logic, after the huge financial crisis of 2007-08, the best way to protect the American economy would have been to man white males.
Is Ansari right in telling Trump to go f*ck himself ??
Absolutely.
Trump is personally attacking Ansari and his family and is just so absolutely wrong about the Muslim faith and community.Trump s tactic of divide and conquer, putting himself and his white pride fanatics against anyone who doesn t fit the mold of what he sees fit to live in the United States, isn t only bigoted, but just outright dangerous.Good on Ansari for speaking out and calling Trump out on his bigotry.Featured Photos by John Moore/Getty Images and Gary Gershoff/Getty Images for Peabody