If you thought Trump supporters wered bad, wait till you get a load of oh, wait, Ted Nugent is a Trump supporter.
Everyone s favorite draft-dodging, pants-pooping pedophile with a penchant for posting horrifically racist sh*t, NRA board member Ted Nugent, recently outdid himself to such a degree that he performed an action rarely seen on his hate speech-filled Facebook wall he hit delete.
In a March 31 Facebook post now scrubbed from the annals of internet history Nugent said: Before all the braindead dishonest lying scum politically correct racist hatepunks get all goofball toxic on us here, I am simply promoting a brilliant entrepreneur in Detroit that created a clever bussiness.
His words, not mine.
Ya gotta luv this guy!!
When in doubt whip it out!
Whom does Nugent love?
What sort of thing could get the hatepunks (read: reasonable people) riled up?It was probably the fact that Nugent posted a photo of a fake moving company van that frequents white supremacist message boards:While it s obvious why Ted Nugent loves it it does say n*gger, after all but contrary to assertions made by Nugent and his future hunting buddy in the comments that the vehicle is real, it s not.
It s just more garbage that Donald Trump s fans, one-fifth of whom think it was a bad idea to end slavery, can pass around and enjoy as they discuss their plans to lynch black people.Last year, Nugent praised the use of the n-word in a column on World Net Daily titled Don t be niggardly with language.
After the President used the word n*gger while speaking about how racism is still an issue in our society, Nugent wrote: Well, there you have it.
The Honest Society is a rather large and growing club, clan if you will, that is not afraid of speaking honestly without fear of politically correct word nazi s going berserk.
Nugent proclaimed that the use of n-word in place of the full thing is the epitome of political correctness gone mad, going on to explain that the word n*gger has historically been used in a powerfully positive way in some scenarios.
He went on to proclaim that society shunning the word n*gger does nothing to help the criminality of blacks in Chicago and other urban hellzones.
Besides, he says, black people use the word and it is the very definition of racism not to let white people spew it as much as they want with no repercussions.Nugent once adopted a 17-year-old girl so that he could have sex with her.
This has no relation to anything current, but it seemed like a good note on which to end.Featured image via screengrab