According to White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, Donald Trump is standing by his claim that former President Obama tapped the phones at Trump Tower even though everyone has confirmed it s bullsh*t.During Monday s press briefing, which took place while FBI Director James Comey s testimony before the House Intelligence Committee was on a break, Spicer was asked about the fact that Trump s wiretapping claims had been shot down by the FBI, the Justice Department, and everybody else except for a few random conspiracy theorists.
He said that there is no information to support the allegations that the President made against President Obama, ABC s Jonathan Karl said, referring to Comey, before Spicer abruptly cut him off mid question.
At this time, Spicer said.
So is the President prepared to withdraw that accusation and apologize to the President?
Karl asked.
No, Spicer replied.
We started a hearing.
It s still ongoing.
And then, as Chairman Nunes mentioned, this is one of a series of hearings that will be happening.
While testifying on Monday, Comey said that the Department of Justice has no information whatsoever to support Trump s ridiculous assertion that Obama, or anybody else for that matter, wiretapped Trump Tower.
Comey said he would not characterize Trump s tweets about the alleged wiretapping, and said only that he has no information to support the accusation.On Friday, the Justice Department sent documents related to Trump wiretapping claims to the committee.
Reps. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and Adam Schiff (R-Calif.) have both said publicly that there was nothing in those documents to back of Trump s accusation.
We know there was not a wiretap on Trump Tower, Nunes said.But none of this is enough to get our narcissistic tweeter-in-chief to admit that he is full of sh*t. Oh no, not Trump.
He ll never back down.
He lives in his own reality and is totally incapable of admitting that he is wrong.
Ever.
This is a terrifying trait to have in the leader of the free world, that s for sure.Watch Spicer say Trump still believes Obama tapped his phones, here:Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images