Natasha Stoynoff, a writer who covered Donald Trump for People, just published a shocking account of sexual assault at the hands of the real estate mogul turned presidential contender.Her disturbing account was published by the same magazine who assigned her to the Trump beat ten years ago.
Stoynoff writes that in 2005 she went to Trump s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida to cover his one year anniversary with Melania.
Our photo team shot the Trumps on the lush grounds of their Florida estate, and I interviewed them about how happy their first year of marriage had been.
When we took a break for the then very-pregnant Melania to go upstairs and change wardrobe for more photos, Donald wanted to show me around the mansion.
There was one tremendous room in particular, he said, that I just had to see.
I just start kissing them, he said to Billy Bush.
It s like a magnet.
Just kiss.
I don t even wait.
And when you re a star, they let you do it.
You can do anything.'
We walked into that room alone, and Trump shut the door behind us.
I turned around, and within seconds, he was pushing me against the wall, and forcing his tongue down my throat.
Stoynoff describes how the assault affected her and compares his actions during that closed-door encounter a decade ago to what he said on the bombshell tape from Access Hollywood that has rocked his campaign.
He may have claimed at the debate that this was just locker room talk and he had never actually assaulted a woman in this way, but he did to Stoynoff exactly what he bragged about to Billy Bush, he just started kissing her, consent be damned.
I m not sure what locker room talk consists of these days.
I only know that I wasn t in a locker room when he pushed me against a wall.
I was in his home, as a professional, and his beautiful pregnant wife was just upstairs, Stoynoff concluded.
Talk is talk.
But it wasn t just talk in my case, it was very much action.
And, just for the record, Mr. Trump, I did not consent, she added.At least three other women have come forward this week to say that they were sexually assaulted by Donald Trump.
A tape of him leering at a 10-year-old girl and talking about how he would be dating her in 10 years has also surfaced.Featured image via Jessica Kourkounis/Getty Images