Being transgender in a society that does not understand you, and often actively discriminates against you is already more difficult than any cisgender person could imagine.
Perhaps the worst part of it is that correcting gender dysphoria meaning taking the necessary steps to make sure one s outward gender presentation lines up with the gender identity is a lengthy and expensive medical process.
Here in America we are a long way from having most insurance companies even consider covering gender reassignment procedures.
However, as usual, Canada is way ahead of us.Canada s Health Minister, Victor Boudreau, has just confirmed that New Brunswick will become the final Canadian province whose healthcare coverage will include coverage of necessary transition procedures for transgender people.
Boudreau says: Transgender persons living in New Brunswick are facing challenges in life and in the health-care system.
Gender dysphoria is a recognized medical condition that, left untreated, can result in high levels of anxiety and depression, which can lead to suicidal thoughts.
This, and so much more, is true of the many difficulties that transgender people face.
They are also much more likely to be murdered than their cisgender counterparts, and this is especially true for transgender women of color.Michelle Leard, who is affiliated with the New Brunswick Transgender Health Network and UBU Atlantic, released a statement regarding the necessity of this form of healthcare: Gender-affirming surgery is a crucial part of a successful transition for many transgender people.
Today s announcement will change the lives of transgender New Brunswickers who are presently facing challenging health, mental health and social situations.
In addition to the new coverage, Canada s laws regarding birth certificate changes will be modified to allow changes to affirm the gender identities of transgender people.This is an absolutely amazing move on the part of Canada.
Too bad America is nowhere near having such provisions.Featured image via Wikimedia Commons