Republican front runner Donald Trump has once again confused everyone on one of his policies by completely reversing and flip-flopping several times in the span of just a few days.
This time, he chose the controversial topic of abortion because he s a misogynist and degrading women just comes so effortlessly and naturally to him.First, the business mogul p*ssed everyone off by saying that women who got abortions should face some sort of punishment.
Then, the disgraced candidate frantically backpedaled and said abortion should be left to the states , and that it wasn t women that should be punished, but the doctors who perform the abortions!
After that, Trump said that abortions laws were set and should stay the way they are, before his campaign clarified his statement and said that the laws should remain the same until Trump is president.
As this back-and-forth nonsense went on, the media was pummeling Trump for not being able to make up his damn mind, and for being horrendously offensive.Now, Trump is trying to avoid even more backlash by straight-up refusing to answer questions on the topic of abortion, as America tries to understand what exactly Trump s position on it really is.
New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd discovered this when she recently tried to interview Trump for her Sunday column entitled Trump Does It His Way .
Dowd said she posed this clever question to the front runner: When he was a swinging bachelor in Manhattan, was he ever involved with anyone who had an abortion?
Trump s answered by evading the question entirely.
He said: Such an interesting question.
So what s your next question?
Trump also gave a pathetic justification for his original punishment comments on abortion that he d made earlier in the week.
He told Dowd: This was not real life this was a hypothetical, so I thought of it in terms of a hypothetical.
So that s where that answer came from, hypothetically.
Dowd also asked Trump how he possibly expected to win the election when he had completely turned off and disgusted 73 percent of American woman.
Trump simply murmured, It was 68 percent, actually.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore