A creationist tried to debate an atheist about evolution and he got owned within seconds.Outside the recently opened Noah s Ark museum in Kentucky, which took $18 million from taxpayers in violation of the separation of church and state, protesters gathered to counter the bullshit creation story that Ken Ham is trying to shove down everyone s throats.Noted atheist Aron Ra joined the protesters and was soon challenged to a debate on evolution by creationist Eric Hovind, a fundamentalist Christian who agrees with Ham that the Earth is only 6,000 years old and that dinosaurs and humans existed at the same time despite all the science that proves otherwise.Conservative Christians like Hovind and Ham reject evolution science and advocate for teaching creationism in science class in order to indoctrinate kids into Christianity against their will.But after the way Hovind got his ass handed to him by science during this encounter on Thursday, it s clear why creationism should never be taught in schools.
There are hundreds of state-funded museums around the world teaching the religion of evolution, Hovind whined even though evolution is science, not religion.One protester pointed out that those state-funded museums do not discriminate against against people seeking employment the way the Ark museum discriminates against anyone who isn t a Christian who shares their beliefs.Ra responded by noting that unlike creationism, evolution is demonstrable verifiable science.
Hovind s only comeback was to continue branding evolution a religious worldview.
Ra made sure everyone present knew that Hovind s only defense of his beliefs is to tell lies about evolution.Hovind then asked the question that got him owned.
Do you believe we came from an ape-like ancestor?
Hovind demanded to know.At this point, Ra used science as a club and beat Hovind over the head with it.
Apes don t have tails learn taxonomy!
Ra said to cheers from the crowd.
So yes, you are an ape, by definition.
In fact, he s absolutely right.
As Raw Story explained:From a biological standpoint, apes are a classification of anthropoid primates that don t have tails.
There are two different families of apes: Hylobatidae and Hominidae.
The Hominidae branch includes orangutans, gorillas and, yes, humans.With no other way to counter Ra, Hovind and his band of thugs resorted to accusing Ra of sounding like Hitler, which pretty much means Hovind knows he got beat.Here s the video via Facebook.The bottom line is that Earth is billions of years old and dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago before humans arrived on the scene.
Stunts like the Ark park are efforts by organized religion to brainwash kids.Taxpayer dollars should never have been used to help build this abomination and quite frankly it should open the door for the government to finally tax the churches.
Because if churches can receive tax dollars to help them push their bullshit, they should have to pay taxes in return.Featured image via screen capture