Donald Trump s screaming banshee Kellyanne Conway went on Fox News to whine about Democrats on Thursday morning and failed to recognize the hypocrisy.Throughout 2016, Senate Republicans blocked President Obama s nomination of Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court despite the fact that Garland was a qualified judge who previously received praise and support from the GOP.
Garland is considered a moderate jurist who would have sat at the ideological center of the high court.In a completely unprecedented move, Republicans refused to even give Garland a confirmation hearing and left the Supreme Court one member short on the bench out of petty hatred of President Obama.On Tuesday, Donald Trump chose conservative judge Neil Gorsuch for the Supreme Court.
In response, Democrats have vowed to retaliate against Republicans by blocking Trump s nominee.
Republicans, however, are now whining because Democrats are treating Trump s nominee the same way Republicans treated Obama s.Mitch McConnell has repeatedly complained about Democratic obstruction of Trump s nominees, conveniently ignoring his own party s obstruction of President Obama for eight years.
Obstruction that he personally ordered.And now Kellyanne Conway is whining about Democratic obstruction as well.During an appearance on Fox & Friends, Conway called Democrats a bunch of crybabies who say they are going to oppose Supreme Court nominees before they even know the person s name and his academic credentials and impeccable judicial record.
That sounds a whole lot like what Republicans did last February while Justice Scalia s dead body wasn t even cold yet.
Obama picked Garland a few months later and his academic credentials and judicial record were even more impressive than Gorsuch s. This obstinance and obstruction is the modern Democratic Party, Conway cntinued, again failing to recognize the hypocrisy of her claims.
I think it s going to cost them because they re hysterical about everything now.
There s no gradation of hysteria, everything makes them cry and scream.
Here s the video via YouTube.Seriously, do Republicans really think the American people are stupid?
For nearly an entire year, Republicans acted like petulant children by refusing to even grant Garland a hearing, yet they are bitching about Democrats for blocking Trump s nominee.Republicans are hypocrites and they only have themselves to blame for creating a new precedent when it comes to Supreme Court picks.
They were the ones who blocked President Obama s rightful pick for a year.
They literally stole a Supreme Court seat from President Obama, who was the legally elected sitting president at the time.
And it should be pointed out that President Obama s election victories were bigger than Trump s by a wide margin.
Until Republicans give Garland the fair hearing he deserves, Democrats should block Trump s nominees indefinitely.
It s nothing less than what Republicans deserve.
They started it.
Now they get to reap what they sowed.
Turnabout is fair play.Featured image via screenshot