The fall of professional troll and far-right provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos continues, as he has now resigned from the place that made him a young conservative star, Breitbart News.
Milo began his time at Breitbart as a tech editor, and his antics eventually got him promoted to Senior Editor.
Now, all of that is over as multiple videos surfaced of him defending pederasty.
Said tapes also cost him a speaking slot at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) and the deal with publishers Simon and Schuster for a provocative book he had written, entitled Dangerous.Milo released a statement saying the following of his resignation: Breitbart News has stood by me when others caved I would be wrong to allow my poor choice of words to detract from my colleagues important reporting, so today I am resigning from Breitbart, effective immediately.
This decision is mine alone.
The assertion that no one forced Milo s resignation is highly suspect, considering that there was reporting that at least half a dozen Breitbart employees had threatened to walk out if Milo wasn t removed from the site s employ.
Of course, Breitbart is sticking by the idea that Milo is some kind of bastion of conservative thought, rather than the walking, talking, YouTube troll that he actually is.
They released their own statement, saying: Milo Yiannopoulos s bold voice has sparked much-needed debate on important cultural topics confronting universities, the LGBTQ community, the press, and the tech industry.
Milo notified us this morning of his decision to resign as editor of Breitbart Tech and we accepted his resignation.
Milo insists that this is not the last we have heard of him, though, and says that he will be starting his own media company instead of using Breitbart as the platform his filth: I will be announcing a new, independently-funded media venture of my own and a live tour in the coming weeks.
I don t intend to go head-to-head with Breitbart, but I intend to do more of the same, just not under the Breitbart banner.
Hopefully, said venture is a colossal failure now that Milo is such a toxic presence to so many people.
Literally any outside donor, network, or media company that touches him or his effort to re-brand will be immediately hit with boycotts and public scorn, and rightfully so.
But we do live in the age over-saturation of news, so likely people will forget Milo s controversies after awhile, he ll rise from his swamp to spew his hate another day.
Sad, but true.Featured image via video screen capture from YouTube