Back in March, Donald Trump made it clear that he wants to outlaw abortion, but he also conceded that overturning Roe v. Wade would force women to seek unsafe back-alley abortions that would lead to a rise of of unnecessary deaths.
You go back to a position like they had where they would perhaps go to illegal places, Mr. Trump said.
But you have to ban it.
And then Trump said women should be punished for choosing to have an abortion.
There has to be some form of punishment, he remarked.Now Trump has taken the next step toward outlawing abortion and depriving women across the nation of a medical procedure that must be available to them as an option.During an interview with Bill O Reilly on Fox News on Tuesday, Trump promised to nominate anti-abortion judges to the Supreme Court to guarantee that Roe v. Wade will fall and women will lose their reproductive rights.
I will protect it, Trump said after O Reilly asked the presumptive Republican presidential nominee what he is going to do about the sanctity of life.
The biggest way you can protect it is through the Supreme Court and putting people on the court, Trump continued.
Actually, the biggest way you can protect it, I guess, is by electing me president.
In short, Trump intends to strip women of their constitutionally protected right to choose by stacking the Supreme Court with hostile anti-abortion extremists.
And Trump went on to remark that up to five Justices could be replaced in the next four years, which means anti-abortion extremists would keep the Supreme Court an anti-women s rights institution for decades if Trump is not defeated in November.Here s the video via YouTube.In response to Trump s remarks, Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow issued a statement of condemnation.
Donald Trump doesn t want a Supreme Court nominee who can be an objective umpire; he wants a nominee who s picked a side already, Stabenow said.
And the side he wants them to pick is against women and their health care.
Indeed, Republicans are already blocking a Supreme Court nomination made by President Obama precisely because they are hoping it will be filled by a Republican in 2017 after Obama leaves office.
That means Trump would be be able to pick an anti-abortion nominee right off the bat to replace recently deceased Justice Antonin Scalia.70 percent of women across the country already have an unfavorable view of Donald Trump due to his past remarks on abortion and the rampant sexism he has displayed on the campaign trail and during debates.
Now they have even more reason to enthusiastically support Hillary Clinton or whoever ends up becoming the Democratic nominee.
Because at this point, any Democrat is better than Trump.Featured image via video screen capture