For the last two weeks, armed domestic terrorists have been wreaking havoc on an Oregon town in a treasonous occupation of the Malheur Wildlife Refuge.
They have been able to come and go freely, and no move by law enforcement, local or federal, was made to round up and arrest these criminals.
That is, until Friday.Two of the militiamen made the mistake of using federal vehicles to go grocery shopping.
That s what got them arrested, but not the occupation itself.first arrest made of #bundymilitia two fed vehicles from compound were driven to Safeway.
vehicles now impounded pic.twitter.com/RM94eKj2Uh John Sepulvado (@JohnLGC) January 15, 2016This is the problem with the whole situation: What these people are doing is absolutely illegal, and they should most definitely be jailed for it.
Instead, the authorities have let them play pretend Army for the last two weeks unimpeded.
Instead of arresting them right away, instead they waited until they stole cars and charged them with that crime.
And even then, it s only two members, when there are more than a hundred others there as well.This insurrection has cost the taxpayers an insane amount of money as well, as federal workers have been put on paid leave until the situation is resolved.
The situation isn t any closer to any sort of peaceful resolution than it has been since its inception though; in fact, if anything, it is getting worse.
Ammon Bundy and his hillbilly partners in crime are actually planning to completely ignore the government (like they aren t already), and instead set up their own laws on the occupied land.
They also reportedly have plans to arrest the Harney County Sheriff.
It has even been suggested that they should take on the FBI station that is keeping tabs on them.All of these fools need to be in jail.
NOW.
This has gone on long enough.
They have disrupted the lives of every citizen in the area on an absolutely ridiculous level at this point, and the whole thing should have ended long ago.Featured image via YouTube screen capture