Typically, children view Santa as a magical bearded guy who brings them presents.
Sometimes he s white, sometimes he s black, sometimes he s other races altogether because he is a fictional character and he can be whatever is most appropriate to an individual.
Unfortunately, this is not a concept that conservatives can accept, having grown accustomed to their familiar, chalky-faced representation of Santa Claus.After WCCO reported that a black Santa would be coming to Mall of America in Minneapolis, Minnesota, for the first time in history, Trump fans and other racist swarmed to show their displeasure with the fact that this Santa wasn t white as chalk.
It s no big deal, I m still Santa, I just happen to be a Santa of Color, Santa Larry Jefferson told the news station, noting that he was the only Santa of Color at a convention over the summer.
Jefferson says that a child recently commented on his skin color, but in the end Santa is Santa to kids regardless of hue: It gives them something to identity with, but Santa is still just Santa.
Just Saturday, I was doing an event, and one child said, Santa, you re brown, and I said, Yes, I am, but Santa comes in many different colors.
He said, Oh, so I gave him a candy cane, he ran off with other kids.
It s a pretty simple concept.
Santa a character based on a black man can be purple with pink polka dots and a chrome finish on his wicked awesome spiked shoulder pads if one wishes, as long as he dumps presents in billions of childrens living rooms by six am on Christmas morning.
He s a magical creature who drives a sleigh pulled by flying reindeer but some feel that appearing as a skin color beyond white is beyond the scope of his wicked awesome powers namely, Trump voters who swarmed the comment section.
FUKIN DISGUSTING, one man wrote in traditional Republican ALLCAPS.
NIGERS ARE DESTROYING the NATION.
His solution to black Santas destroying the nation is to EXTERMINATE the NIGER RACE to save HUMANS from MONGREL APES.
Another called for a BOYCOTT of Mall of America because Santa is WHITE.
Others called it offensive to portray Santa who, once again, is a character based on a black man from Turkey as black.
Another wondered why these people-shaped apes can t just stick to their made-up kwanza ritual.
Unfortunately, this is the sort of shit we will be dealing with more and more as time goes on.Watch a report on Jefferson s hiring below:Featured image via screengrab