Since 1890, The Arizona Republic, now the state s largest and most popular newspaper, has seen over 30 presidential elections.
And every time, they have endorsed the Republican contender Eisenhower, Nixon, Goldwater, Ford, Reagan, H.W.
Bush, Dole, Bush, McCain, and Romney.This year, something changed dramatically for the editorial board they put country over party, and endorsed Hillary Clinton, the Democrat, over Donald Trump, the Republican.Once again, Hillary has broken a glass ceiling.Writing that Hillary Clinton is the only candidate who can lead America forward, the editorial board did not mince words with their hatred for Donald Trump.
The 2016 Republican candidate is not conservative and he is not qualified, the board writes just after pointing out that they have a deep admiration for conservative principles.The board also pointed out that Hillary is by no means a conservative (rather a centrist), but in the grand scheme of things, Trump s bombastic, offensive, divisive and racial language is contrary to what America stands for, and this against what they argue to be real conservatism:Trump s conversion to conservatism is recent and unconvincing.
There is no guarantee he will name solid conservatives to the Supreme Court Trump s inability to control himself or be controlled by others represents a real threat to our national security.
His recent efforts to stay on script are not reassuring.
They are phony.Ouch.
Not only is Trump a faux conservative in their eyes, he s a con man who s trying to lie his way into the presidency.
Luckily, the Arizona Republic sees right through his xenophobic nonsense.While chiding Trump for his bromance with Russia and complete lack of world knowledge and foreign diplomacy, the paper highlights Hillary s ability to take a composed and headstrong approach to the issues facing America abroad:Clinton has argued America s case before friendly and unfriendly foreign leaders with tenacity, diplomacy and skill.
She earned respect by knowing the issues, the history and the facts.
She is intimately familiar with the challenges we face in our relations with Russia, China, the Middle East, North Korea and elsewhere.
She ll stand by our friends and she s not afraid to confront our enemies.Quite possibly the biggest factor in the Republic s decision was Trump s treatment of Mexico and the hardworking, honest people that live there and the immigrants that enrich Arizona culturally, economically and diplomatically.When you I aunt Mexico and its people, you insult Arizona and its people.Trump is learning the hard way that words have consequences, and that decent people and decent entities will stand up to his bully pulpit.That is why the Arizona Republic put people over party and made the right decision.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images