If there s one thing President Barack Obama isn t threatened by, it s Donald Trump.After the Brexit decision, in which the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union, many Americans were left upset and afraid that what had happened overseas could be a sign that Trump might actually win the election.
Trump himself has definitely played up those fears in his statements following the decision by making statements such as, I really see a parallel between what is happening here and in the U.S. and voters will have the chance to re-declare their independence in November.
Luckily, Obama is setting the record straight.In an interview with NPR s Steve Inskeep, it was clear that Obama wanted Americans to know that there were distinct differences between America and Britain, and that the Brexit vote wasn t a warning about what might happen in November.
In fact, Obama was confident enough to actually laugh when Inskeep asked him about Trump s statement that Americans will be able to reject the global elite in the general election.
Obama took a swipe at the billionaire business mogul: Mr. Trump embodies global elites and has taken full advantage of it his entire life.
So, he s hardly a spokesperson, a legitimate spokesperson for a populist surge of working-class people on either side of the Atlantic.
Obama urged Americans to stay calm, saying that he didn t think Brexit would lead to any major, cataclysmic changes.
He said: I think that the best way to think about this is, a pause button has been pressed on the project of full European integration.
I would not overstate it.
There s been a little bit of hysteria post-Brexit vote, as if somehow NATO s gone, the trans-Atlantic alliance is dissolving, and every country is rushing off to its own corner.
That s not what s happening.
Obama stated that the U.S. and Europe still have similar international interests.
He said: The basic core values of Europe, the tenants of liberal market-based democracies; those aren t changing.
The interests we have with Europe remain the same, and our concerns internationally remain the same, so Europe can t afford to turn in.
Trump might want to sit down, and shut up.
You can watch Obama s interview below:Featured image via Pete Souza, Official White House Photographer