In October of 2015, California couple Courtney Wilson and Taylor Guerrero travelled to Honolulu, Hawaii for what was supposed to be an enjoyable vacation getaway.
On the second day of the couple s trip, however, their dream vacation turned into a nightmare.As Addicting Info reported here, Guerrero and Wilson stopped at a Foodland grocery store to pick up some snacks.The couple says that they were dancing and having a good time as they shopped.
They held hands and at one point Wilson gave her girlfriend of two years a kiss on the cheek.
Upon seeing the kiss, off-duty police officer Bobby Harrison told the couple to stop it, then yelled at them to take it somewhere else.
The two women tried to brush off the rude remarks and went about their shopping.
Harrison continued to follow and harass the couple, threatening to have them thrown out of the store.As Wilson and Guerrero neared the checkout, Harrison approached them again.
At this point, Wilson tried to call 911 on the off-duty cop, but Harrison grabbed her arm.
Both women were thrown to the ground by the officer.
Wilson was punched in the face by Harrison.
The officer then directed Foodland employees to hold the two women down until their hands could be zip tied.Harrison arrested the couple, charging them with felony assault on a police officer.
The charges were dropped five months later.
During the five months that it took the courts to process the case, Wilson and Guerrero were forced to remain in Honolulu.
We spent the money we came with on bail, Wilson said during a recent press conference.
As a result, the couple was forced to sleep in a park.Watch Wilson and Guerrero describe the harassment and assault in the video below, courtesy of NBC News on YouTube.On Friday, the women were awarded an $80,000 settlement in the case.
The City Council is expected to approve the award when it meets in mid-July.
The couple also received a $10,000 settlement from Foodland.According to NBC News Officer Harrison retired from the police force last year.Featured image via video screen capture NBC News