Either Donald Trump doesn t ever look at who he is retweeting, or he does, and that s pretty damn frightening.
Not only did he just retweet yet another white supremacist Twitter account, but now he s gone and retweeted an account that wants Texas to be its own country and to re-establish the Confederate States of America.
"@TheSouthwasRite: @NRO cancelling my subscription- you people are idiots.
@realDonaldTrump WILL be our next President.
#Trump2016 #RNC" Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 23, 2016The owner of the Twitter handle the Republican presidential frontrunner retweeted quite literally wants to leave the United States of America, saying in their bio: Texas alone could be its own country.
Let s re-establish the Confederate States of America.
Other states would join.
As you can tell, this person clearly wants to split from the United States, and also clearly wants Trump as president.via TwitterAnd as a person that is running for President of the United States of America, you d think, maybe, just maybe, he wouldn t endorse such a tweet with a retweet of approval.
By doing so, it reaffirms the position held by the person he s retweeting and makes it appear as though he also wants the nation to once again be divided.
So much for making America great again.Sure, the tweet itself was in regards to this person wanting to end their National Review subscription, but holy sh*t, Trump couldn t have found a better person to retweet?
Who the hell is working his social media campaign?What this really is indicative of is the sort of people responding to Trump s racist rhetoric that he s been touting since the start of his presidential campaign.
His white pride attitude is drawing all the racists out from their holes, and they are feeling perfectly comfortable being openly bigoted in public.
After all, a major party frontrunner is saying these things, so why can t they?The Republican party needs to put Trump in check or he will be their nominee, and if this is the sort of candidate they want to run, well, then we certainly know which party is the party of racism.
And since you need the minority vote to win these days, thanks in advance from the Democrats.Featured image: Flickr/Flickr