The NY Daily News, one of the tabloid newspapers that also happens to be a hometown publication for Donald Trump, has produced another cover mocking the fascist billionaire.Appearing on the front of Friday s newspaper is a Ku Klux Klansman in full dress, announcing an endorsement of Trump s presidential career.An early look at tomorrow's front page:TRUMP FOR PREZ Ex-KKK leader: Donald just like us!
https://t.co/kVep9MWIZz pic.twitter.com/ls4iIFxlsn New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) February 26, 2016The cover is a reference to the announcement from infamous former KKK leader David Duke that he is fully backing Trump s campaign.
Duke told listeners to his underground radio show that it is the duty of white supremacists to vote for the current Republican presidential front runner.
Voting for these people, voting against Donald Trump at this point, is really treason to your heritage, Duke said on the David Duke Radio Program.
BuzzFeed News first reported the comments.
I m not saying I endorse everything about Trump.
In fact, I haven t formally endorsed him.
But I do support his candidacy, and I support voting for him as a strategic action.
I hope he does everything we hope he will do.
Duke also told his fellow white supremacists that they need to go out and volunteer for Trump, noting: And I am telling you that it is your job now to get active.
Get off your duff.
Get off your rear end that s getting fatter and fatter for many of you everyday on your chairs.
When this show s over, go out, call the Republican Party, but call Donald Trump s headquarters, volunteer.
Trump has consistently appealed to bigotry in his campaign.
He first launched his effort by calling Mexicans rapists, then proceeded to advocate for registering Muslims and barring them from entering the United States.
Trump himself has also been caught several times using his Twitter account to amplify the messages of white supremacists and other racists, who are loudly backing his campaign online and attacking his critics.Featured image via Flickr