Award-winning actress and political activist Susan Sarandon has been busy speaking praises for Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders.
After expressing her support for the Vermont senator at an Iowa campaign rally, Sarandon sat down with online network The Young Turks and told them what really frightened her about this election: Republican front runner Donald Trump.Noting that Trump has made the Republican party look like an absolute circus, Sarandon said she believed that there were some sane Republicans that would never even dream of nominating Trump, who is pretty much like a figure from a Kurt Vonnegut novel.
I cannot believe for a second that America would actually make Donald Trump the president.
Republicans are not all bad, they re not all crazy, they re not all greedy.
I think there s some very sane Republicans and they must be so embarrassed by what s going on right now.
However, she is terrified of the amount of support the GOP candidate has gotten, and thinks he could be incredibly dangerous for America s future.
She said: He reminds me of, like, your drunk uncle at a wedding who gets up and starts talking and just loves the crowd and just goes on and on and on and says whatever he can to get a reaction.
The Oscar winner revealed that what really bothered her the most about Trump s rhetoric the way he views minorities.
She explained: What concerns me is that he has made hatred and racism normal he s normalized it.
He s taking this, you know, [THE]undercurrent of discontent that s looking to blame somebody and he s legitimized those feelings and that, I think, is a very dangerous thing.
You can watch Sarandon s entire takedown of the racist front runner below:Sarandon has weighed in on Trump before, stating that she thought he appealed to Americans who were really starved for something authentic despite the fact that he has no idea specifically what he s talking about.
She also said, I think it s great that the Republicans have to figure out how to deal with him, it s interesting.
Meanwhile, Sarandon is trying to focus on supporting Sanders.
She explained: For me, gender is not what s important.
Issues are what s important.
I want a candidate who has the courage to stand and do the right thing when it is not popular.
TwitterFeatured image is a screenshot