Trump s latest attempt to pass blame for his own mistakes onto others is backfiring in spectacular fashion.
Like a broken record, Trump lashed out at former acting Attorney General Sally Yates, who is set to testify that she emphatically warned Trump s administration about the dangers of appointing disgraced general Michael Flynn as his national security adviser.
He also tried to pin the blame on Obama, justifying his hiring of Flynn on the basis of Obama having hired him during his administration ignoring one major detail.General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 8, 2017Trump thinks you re dumb enough to not realize that Obama also fired Flynn for being erratic and angry to such a degree that it disturbed his colleagues and staffers.2012 Obama appoints Flynn DIA2014 Obama fires him2016 DOD renews Flynn's clearance2016- With no apparent vetting Trump appoints him NSA https://t.co/6f0dOlpn64 Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) May 8, 2017However, his peculiarly fierce attacks directed at Obama over Flynn betray his Achilles heel.
He is a one-trick pony anything he is guilty of, he accuses others of being responsible for.
In this case, it turns out Obama had actually warned Trump about hiring Flynn.
In an Oval Office meeting just days after Trump had won the election, Obama sat him down and explained that his trusted adviser who Trump was reportedly considering naming vice president was unfit for office.NBC News:According to all three former officials, Obama warned Trump against hiring Flynn.
The Obama administration fired Flynn in 2014 from his position as head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, largely because of mismanagement and temperament issues.Obama s warning pre-dated the concerns inside the government about Flynn s contacts with the Russian ambassador, one of the officials said.
Obama passed along a general caution that he believed Flynn was not suitable for such a high level post, the official added.By all accounts, Trump only got more interested in hiring Flynn after Obama s warning.
Like many of his Republican brethren, Trump has long suffered from a knee-jerk reaction to do the opposite of anything Obama says.
If Obama says healthcare is good, Republicans come out against it.
If Obama says breathing is good, Republicans will hold their breath until they re blue in the face.
And apparently if Obama says Don t hire this unstable, incompetent nutjob to serve in one of the most important roles in the White House, Trump fast-tracks his application.The irony, of course, is that by deliberately ignoring Obama s warning, Trump made the bed he s currently sleeping in.
The fact that he tried to cover up his mistake by firing Sally Yates when she, too, warned him about Flynn only makes things worse for him.
Trump is most certainly guilty of many things, but at the forefront is his own rank stupidity and creepy obsession with Obama.His ugliest traits conspired to undo him.How fitting.Featured image via Jack Gruber-Pool/Getty Images