The Republican Party should be prepared to lose the Hispanic vote by a record number this year as Donald Trump has basically just surrendered any chance the party had to reach out to them.After 71 percent of Hispanics voted to re-elect President Obama in 2012, Republicans claimed that they would work hard to bring them back into the fold to better their chances in 2016.
Since then, however, the Republican Party has only doubled down on their anti-immigration stance and they chose Trump to be their nominee.Trump s poll numbers among Hispanics have since gone from bad to downright atrocious even as he scrambles to do ridiculous outreach efforts like eating a taco bowl or having white Trump supporters hold up signs saying Latinos support Trump to somehow draw Hispanic support to his campaign.
And it looks like any substantial effort has just gone down the toilet as well.According to Buzzfeed, cancellations of outreach events and frustration among Hispanic volunteers and surrogates is imploding Trump s pitiful attempt to attract Hispanic support.RNC Chair Reince Priebus bragged prior to the Republican Convention that Trump is going to be doing a Hispanic engagement tour coming up soon and claimed Trump understands the need to expand the party in the general election.That apparently went in one ear and out the other as Trump has failed to meet with Hispanic leaders in Texas and Florida, which is only angering the few Republican Hispanic voters left.The campaign canceled an initial July 8 roundtable with Cuban business and faith leaders in Miami because of the tragic shooting in Dallas.
Then the rescheduled July 26 event was officially canceled because the roundtable participants were out of town.
(Three Republican sources told BuzzFeed News a hold was put on the campaign calendar for that time slot but the event was never planned.
)Another unreported, but planned Hispanic event was also canceled: The July 5 event was supposed to bring Trump face-to-face with San Antonio business leaders and Texas Republicans, but after the campaign reached out for venue space and possible participants, the event was scrapped.
I think they couldn t get enough people to come to the event because their support among Hispanic voters is 14%, Republican voter Artemio Muniz said.
What do they expect?
Indeed, Trump s is polling so badly among Hispanics that Hillary Clinton is currently leading him in all 12 swing states, including Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.Furthermore, 67 percent of Hispanic voters support Hillary Clinton while only 19 percent support Trump 77 percent of Hispanics view Trump unfavorably.Trump s performance among Hispanic voters in November would be even worse than Mitt Romney in 2012 if the current numbers hold.
Romney was able to capture 27 percent in 2012.
Trump is 8 points behind that mark and it may only get worse from there as he continues disparaging Hispanics wherever he goes and continues to fail at getting any outreach effort off the ground.It also doesn t help that Trump s campaign has rejected the effort of Ileana Garcia, who started Latinas For Trump, to lead a national effort to attract Hispanic voters.
The Trump campaign got mad at her for telling reporters in Cleveland that she is the national Latino spokesperson for Trump.
Now it appears she will not have a major role within the campaign at all even though Trump and the GOP desperately need someone to do something to stop the bleeding.At this point, it s very late in the game to convince Hispanic voters that Trump is somehow the right person to be president.
He has made zero effort to reverse the damage he has done and only continues to do more damage.
If Republican leadership didn t have buyer s remorse before, they certainly do now because it really looks like the only demographic Trump is courting is the white vote and that may have been enough to win 30 years ago, but it definitely is not enough today.Featured image via Twitter