Today, President Trump came one step closer to dismantling Obamacare.
He signed an executive order that would allow Americans to purchase insurance across state lines.
The time has come to take action to IMPROVE access, INCREASE choices, and LOWER COSTS for HEALTHCARE!
https://t.co/mz5fdveTVh pic.twitter.com/dDZLsKuNSe Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 12, 2017Congressional Democrats said Thursday that President Trump s executive order to relax insurance rules is the latest evidence of Republican sabotage against Obamacare.The president signed the order that directs federal agencies to examine regulations that would make it easier for people to band together to get association health plans and buy more short-term insurance.
Democrats quickly criticized the order as a back door to attack protections for people with pre-existing conditions and increase junk insurance plans.
I do know it is a sabotage of the Affordable Care Act and quite frankly a disservice to the American people, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said in a press conference Tuesday.She also said Trump knows very little about healthcare legislation.
Washington ExaminerPerhaps a little trip down memory lane is in order for Nancy.
Remember when Nancy Pelosi coined her most memorable line in the long list of memorable Nancy Pelosi lines?
Remember when Nancy attempted to explain the Obamacare legislation to a large audience, telling them, But we have to pass the bill, so that you can, uh, find out what s in it.
?Even one of her most reliable media allies, David Gregory of NBC News, who was clearly on the same team as Nancy, questioned her sanity and most especially, her knowledge of what was in the Obamacare bill, following her curious remarks:We re pretty sure that most Americans are more confident in President Trump s knowledge of the benefits to Americans, once they are able to purchase insurance across state lines than they were in Nancy s ability to understand the 20,000 page Obamacare legislation.