Republicans are hilarious when they try to point out Democratic hypocrisy.
They re even more hilarious when they fall flat on their faces with it, as opposed to being merely embarrassed by it.
Such is the case with Texas Rep. Mike Conaway, who weighed in on the growing body of evidence that Vladimir Putin actually ordered the operation to help Trump and harm Hillary an operation which included hacking the DNC and other systems.And his comparison is simply beyond ridiculous.To Conaway, the issue is simply that there were foreigners all over the place whose purpose was swaying our election to one side or the other: Harry Reid and the Democrats brought in Mexican soap opera stars, singers and entertainers who had immense influence in those communities into Las Vegas, to entertain, get out the vote and so forth.
Those are foreign actors, foreign people, influencing the vote in Nevada.
You don t hear the Democrats screaming and saying one word about that.
He went on with this utter gem: [I]t s foreign influence.
If we re worried about foreign influence, let s have the whole story.
Oh, well, okay then, since a performance from a Mexican singer with a Latino-American group is totally the same thing as a hostile foreign leader engaging in cyber-warfare against us, then the case is closed.
Go home, folks, there s nothing more to see here.Twitter didn t go home, though.
They piled on him for this:@ConawayTX11 @vicentefernande Vicente Fernandez also sang for @GeorgeWBush__ at the 2000 GOP convention.
Conaway ur an idiot.
RFH (@rfh02) January 12, 2017@conawaytx11 So was it okay for Nigel Farage to appear at Trump rallies, or was that the equivalent of Russian hacking?
@RalstonReports howard klion (@hklion2) January 12, 2017@RalstonReports @ConawayTX11 Texans are more foreign in Nevada than Latinos.
Beth Crispin (@iyamiyam) January 12, 2017Rep.
Mike Conaway (R-Midland), who serves on the House intelligence committee, is a moron who needs to RESIGN https://t.co/eXm7zSXigQ kim oconnor (@kimoco) January 13, 2017cyberwarfare concerts only thing @ConawayTX11 seems to get right is that Democrats performed strongly in the state on Election Day https://t.co/dg13g330HQ Stewart Boss (@stew_boss) January 12, 2017@ConawayTX11 Mexican singers are not a hostile foreign govt.
Are you really that fucking stupid.
Oh wait, texas.
answer is yes.
Cunt James William Townse (@jimtownsend59) January 12, 2017@ConawayTX11 How is an open Mexican artist openly supporting a candidate the same as Russian covert op.
Hacking the DNC the same thing?
GuardianOfWhills (@GILinRealLife) January 12, 2017@ConawayTX11 @TheIIA You are one stupid SOB if you believe that babble about Mexican singers.
Idiotic and treasonous comment old man.
FU PutinsPuppet (@PresidentDimWit) January 12, 2017Conaway sits on the House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, and is a member of the NSA and Cybersecurity subcommittee there, so what the hell is he smoking?
He ought to know differently.
Rep. Joaquin Castro, a fellow lawmaker from Texas says Conaway does know better, and assumes he was joking.However, others, like Rep. Luis Gutierrez of Illinois, aren t as sure.
In fact, Gutierrez threw it back in Conaway s face, more or less, by asking what Trump s meeting with Mexico s president during the campaign cycle.He also pointed out that Republicans often run political ads on stations that play Hispanic music.
The goal is to find ways to reach out to the fastest growing demographic in the U.S. That s what campaigning is all about.But that doesn t matter to Republicans.
They care about trying to make Democrats look bad, and in the face of the growing Russian hacking scandal, they re getting increasingly desperate.Featured image by Lance Cheung, U.S. Dept.
of Agriculture, under CC BY 2.0 via Flickr