Trevor Noah shredded Republicans on Monday night for being as inept as Looney Tunes character Wile E. Coyote in their effort to beat Donald Trump.The segment began with Noah talking about Trump s allegedly large penis, which he bragged about during the last GOP Debate.
That was a prime time presidential debate where the front-runner reassured the American public that he has a huge penis, Noah said.
The thing that people don t actually know is, it s someone else s huge penis and Trump just licenses his name on it.
Noah then talked about Ted Cruz defeating Trump in Maine and Kansas because he is a grower, not a shower.
Then Noah took aim at poor little Marco Rubio, who could only brag about winning the coveted vote in Puerto Rico, a US territory that doesn t get a say during the election.
Good job, Marco Rubio.
You only have to go a few hundred miles off shore to find a place that wants you to be president, Noah quipped.The discussion then turned to how Republicans plan to overthrow Trump and replace him with the candidate they want at the convention in July.
Ah, democracy where every vote counts.
As long as that vote doesn t go against the people who actually control the party, in which case they will disregard your vote, replace it with their vote and then, every vote will count.
Noah also pointed out how the other Republican candidates are trashing Trump and urging people not to vote for him but at the same time are saying they will support him if he wins the nomination.
As it turns out, all of the GOP candidates signed a pledge to support the nominee whoever that may be and it totally backfired because the RNC didn t expect Trump to be in the lead right now.And that led to the most hilarious joke of the night as Noah played a clip of Wile E. Coyote trying and failing to catch the Trump Roadrunner who speeds by taunting the coyote when his plan backfires.In the end, Noah was of the opinion that Trump s penis must be huge because he s using it to f*ck the entire Republican Party.
Here s the video via Comedy Central: Featured image via screenshot