It s no secret that Donald Trump got a lot of help from the Russian government this election.
From the wildfire of fake news spread across the internet to leaks on Hillary Clinton, Russia and its dear leader Vladimir Putin were in the bag for the new president-elect.But there s proof that the Kremlin and its band of thugs may have acted in a more nefarious, intricate way and Democrats want to expose that.House Democrats, led by ranking member Adam Schiff (California) of the Committee on Intelligence, are set to introduce legislation that calls for a federal probe into whether or not and to what extent the Russian government played in the U.S. election via hacking, to take action on evidence of foreign interference in the 2016 U.S. elections.
California Rep. Eric Swalwell and Maryland Rep. Elijah Cummings will introduce the bill in the lame duck sessionIn a letter to the White House, Schiff asked that President Obama share with members of Congress a classified report that details Russia s potential role in swaying the outcome of the election and that it very well could have given us President Trump:We are deeply concerned by Russian efforts to undermine, interfere with and even influence the outcome of our recent election.
By eroding Americans and foreigners trust in US institutions, Russia both weakens our country and sows global instability and uncertainty.The letter, signed by all six Democrats on the committee, comes days after Senate Democrats sent the White House a similar letter urging transparency on Russia.In Time magazine, Donald Trump told interviewers that he does not believe Russia had instigated a hack (or any other meddling) and that the concern of such was politically motivated by the Democrats: I don t believe it.
I don t believe they interfered, Trump said in an interview with Time magazine, which named him person of the year.When asked by Time if the conclusion reached by U.S. officials was motivated by politics, Trump responded, I think so.
While it s unclear how much of an impact the intrusions had on the election outcome, the revelations proved embarrassing for the Democratic Party and cost DNC Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz her job at the top of the committee.Instead, Trump famously blamed any hacking and counter-election offenses by a 400 pound guy in a basement somewhere in the United States (without providing evidence).While Trump peddles conspiracy theories, Democrats seek to legitimize the electoral process of the United States.Featured image via Winn McNamee/Getty Images