Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz has made a living in Congress starting investigations into just about anything in an effort to hurt Democrats.
But even he thinks Donald Trump has nothing to support his accusations against President Obama.On Saturday, Trump made the outrageous claim that President Obama wiretapped Trump Tower to spy on him and demanded that Congress investigate even though he didn t offer a single shred of evidence to back up his claims.Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Trump s accusations were even shot down by former National Intelligence Director James Clapper, who served in the position from 2010 to 2017.Clapper told Meet The Press on Sunday that if President Obama had ordered a wiretap, whether legal or illegal, he would have known about it.Of course, that s not stopping Republicans from including Trump s accusations in their investigation of his Russia scandal, which means we can expect Republicans to focus more of their energy trying to desperately prove Trump s claim than they will on revealing Trump s ties to Russia and Vladimir Putin.But one Republican concedes that he hasn t seen anything that would support Trump s accusation.Utah Rep. Jason Chaffetz loves investigations.
He is obsessed with witch hunts against Democrats and will start endless investigations into anything if he thinks it could be a scandal to hit Democrats with.
On the other hand, he isn t really interested in investigating Republicans like Trump when true scandals like Russian interference in the election arise.
But even he says that Trump has nothing to prove his accusations against President Obama.
You never know when you turn a corner what you may or may not see, Chaffetz said on CBS This Morning.
But thus far I have not seen anything directly that would support what the president has said.
Despite that concession, Chaffetz has offered to support an investigation into Trump s allegations even though he isn t interested in leading the investigation himself.
Look, it s a very serious allegation, Chaffetz continued.
The president has at his fingertips tens of billions of dollars in intelligence apparatus.
I ve got to believe I think he might have something there, but if not, we re going to find out.
Here s the video via YouTube:So Chaffetz literally went from saying that Trump has nothing to saying that he might have something.
This is the kind of double-speak that Americans despise from politicians.The fact is that Trump has zero evidence to support his claims and Congress has no evidence to justify starting an investigation based on those claims.
Trump is slandering President Obama based on a conspiracy theory he read on Breitbart and Republicans appear to be willing to start a witch hunt over it.
And American taxpayers will be paying for it.Donald Trump is hoping to distract Congress from investigating his Russia scandal by telling lies about President Obama.
It s sad that Republicans are incapable of seeing through Trump s bullshit.
As usual, Republicans are demonstrating that they would rather investigate Democrats instead of doing anything that threatens their own power.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images