Donald Trump doesn t have much foreign policy experience, but he loves his golf courses, especially the ones overseas.
He s no longer associated with Miss Universe, but surely that prepared him for foreign policy and running a country, just as his golf courses in Scotland did.
President Obama s labor secretary, Tom Perez, took Trump to the cleaners over this during an interview on Meet the Press, because Perez knows that Trump doesn t know foreign policy at all.Host Chuck Todd asked Perez how he would describe his own foreign policy, and Perez replied with a smirk and razor-sharp sarcasm: Well, I haven t run a Ms. Universe pageant, and I don t own any golf courses in Scotland, Chuck, so I don t have what Donald Trump has, and I m very sorry about that.
That hits King Dunce right where it hurts, because King Dunce doesn t know how to take advice, let alone actually learn anything.
Remember, King Dunce the man who gave us this little nugget of disease-ridden feces: I m speaking with myself, number one, because I have a very good brain and I ve said a lot of things I know what I m doing and I listen to a lot of people, I talk to a lot of people and at the appropriate time I ll tell you who the people are.
But my primary consultant is myself and I have a good instinct for this stuff.
He has a touch of instinct for business, and that s it.
He thinks government, and particularly foreign affairs, are just like business and he can treat them with strong-arm tactics and threats of lawsuits oh wait, war if they don t give in.King Trump s foreign policy sounds great to ignorant voters who can t think for themselves.
It s all about America first.
It s a lot of the same mentality that led to Brexit, and it s true that world s uppermost caste has left working class people in the dust in the pursuit of their own black and vile greed.
However, Trump wants to bully and muscle other countries into doing what he wants.
He doesn t want actual negotiations.It wouldn t be surprising to discover that His Royal Narcissist thinks that his me first mentality is the same as having an America first mentality.
His confidence in his own greatness is part of why he talks about all his businesses, including his golf courses, as though they ve given him all the experience he needs to run one of the most powerful countries in the world.As Perez explained, Trump the Dump is all about himself and his own profits and glory rather than America first, because otherwise, he wouldn t fight labor unions and he wouldn t have his clothing and campaign gear made in the very foreign countries he demonizes regularly on the campaign trail.Perez nailed him to the wall on this.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images