Silly, silly Donna Brazile.
She s publishing a book detailing turmoil in the Democratic Party during the 2016 campaign, highlighted by her concern that Hillary Clinton was seriously ill and might need to be replaced by Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders.Was the Democrat Party setting up Joe Biden to replace Hillary when she accompanied him to his hometown in Scranton, PA?
The media completely ignored Hillary s inability to walk or stand unassisted in front of, and inside Joe s childhood home, that was all caught on this incredible, but mostly hidden video.
In the video below, Hillary can be seen using the arm of the homeowner for support while reaching for the railing next to the stairs to stabilize herself.
She can be seen repeatedly grasping for the railing outside, and then later on, when Hillary s inside the home, she seems unable to stand on her own, as she grasps for the backs of chairs and the kitchen table.Watch:Earlier in the day, Vice President Joe Biden was forced to help the seriously ill Democrat presidential candidate Hillary Clinton down from the podium where she spoke at a small rally.What s the big deal?
There s no news here because all this was well-known and covered at the time by the big national newspapers and networks, right?Wrong.
If Brazile were rehashing things we knew, there would be no book and no bombshell headlines now.Instead, she has thrown open a new and very big window on 2016 and exposed yet again the consequences of the political biases of the Democratic media.The missed stories are not merely the result of mistakes or sloppy reporting.
Brazile s book is a revelation in that it shows that many left-leaning journalists didn t so much cover Clinton as cover up for her.Put it this way: How is it possible that the leader of the Democratic Party was talking to colleagues about trying to replace its nominee during the general election because of health concerns, and none of the thousands of journalists covering the campaign got wind of it?It s not possible if the media had been playing it down the middle and holding both candidates to the same standard of scrutiny.
But big media missed a big story because so much campaign news coverage was tilted toward defeating Donald Trump and electing Clinton.Anything that could possibly suggest Trump was unfit for the Oval Office bingo, front page, top of the broadcast.On the other hand, anything that could hurt Clinton was downplayed or ignored.
Nothing to see here, move along.The coverage of Clinton s health was a prime example of the tilt.
Her coughing fits, especially a long one on Labor Day, and a history of falling were pointed out by the popular Drudge Report, some Republicans and smaller, conservative-leaning sites to suggest she was not being honest about her health.But her campaign always denied anything was wrong allergies, the candidate, and her flacks insisted, caused the persistent coughs, and major news organizations mostly nodded their heads and stayed mum, accepting the official denials without skepticism.The dam cracked a bit on Labor Day, when an NBC reporter filed a 91-word, four-paragraph story that said Clinton had been unable to finish her speech in Ohio because of a coughing fit.The truth was dangerous, so the Praetorian Guard sprang to Clinton s defense.
The NBC reporter, Andrew Rafferty, was mocked and insulted, first by the campaign, and then by journalists, including some MSNBC commentators who turned on their colleague as if he had violated a secret oath.CNN joined the Clinton amen chorus, and at the Washington Post, political writer Chris Cillizza denounced the topic of Clinton s health as a totally ridiculous issue and declared it a sure-fire loser for Trump.
It s hard to plausibly insist, based on the available data, that Clinton is ill, insisted Cillizza, who is now at CNN.Five days later, Clinton was unable to walk on her own and collapsed at the 9/11 ceremony in Manhattan as she tried to get into a van.
The campaign insisted she was just dehydrated until a short video of the incident aired, then admitted the candidate had been diagnosed with pneumonia days earlier.In other words, the claim of allergies was a big fat lie.
That prompted Brazile to contemplate starting the process of replacing Clinton, writing in her book that the campaign also was anemic and had the odor of failure.
She says she considered numerous tickets to replace Clinton and Sen. Tim Kane, and decided that Biden and Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) would be the best.It s not clear how long she deliberated or how many people she talked to, but Brazile writes that Biden called her on Sept. 12.
In the end, she says, she made no move because she couldn t disappoint Clinton s supporters.For entire story: NYP