People are scratching their heads at an event Trump just held that has no precedent in United States history but wouldn t look out of place in North Korea.
For reasons that nobody can discern, Trump held a public cabinet meeting and invited reporters to cover it.
When the reporters dutifully showed up, he forced his assembled cabinet to listen to him drone on about how great he is while they nodded or occasionally chimed in with praise.
It was really, really awkward.I've never seen a Cabinet meeting like this one before.
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) June 12, 2017This interminable cabinet spray, where everybody pays tribute to Trump, is one of the most exquisitely awkward public events I've ever seen.
Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) June 12, 2017The entire affair was humiliating for those assembled.
Trump s Secretary of State Rex Tillerson had it particularly bad.
He was sitting next to Trump the entire time with cameras capturing his soul slowly dying.At one point he had to sit quietly as the President of the United States claimed no president in history had accomplished more than he had so far in his presidency (although he made an exception for FDR).
The lie was so incredibly easy to debunk that it s hard to imagine the White House will even try to defend it.
Tillerson, for his part, wore the grim expression of man who was awaiting a guard to escort him to the gallows.Trump: "Never has there been a president" besides FDR "who's passed more legislation, who's done more things than what we've done."
pic.twitter.com/o5KWp9xHB2 Tommy Christopher (@tommyxtopher) June 12, 2017In the background, hovering over the cabinet members, Trump s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Steve Bannon were also in attendance.
In the corner, making his best attempt to pull a James Comey and physically disappear into the curtains is National Security Adviser H.R.
McMaster.Trump had each cabinet member take a turn praising him while he smiled.Later, Trump s Chief of Staff Reince Priebus openly groveled, praising Trump for blessing him with the opportunity to work in his administration.Priebus just thanked Trump for the "blessing" of being able to work for him.
Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) June 12, 2017Priebus s groveling may been necessary to keep his job.
Sources recently told reporters that Trump has grown tired of Preibus and suggested he may fire him by next month.
Public demonstrations of praise towards Trump may well save his job.Trump s attempt at propaganda was scheduled to coincide with a DC attorney s press conference in which he says his office has determined that Trump is violating the Constitution s anti-corruption provisions by blatantly flaunting his hotel and other properties as ways to gain access to his inner circle.DC Attorney General: "President Trump's businesses and his dealings violate the Constitution's anti-corruption provisions."
(via @MSNBC) pic.twitter.com/3fc4WaHIVI Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) June 12, 2017Coincidence?Featured image via Twitter