Donald Trump is currently steamrolling his way to victory and Republicans seem to finally be waking up to the nightmare that he s going to win the nomination whether they want him to or not.One man who clearly has no problem with swallowing his pride and giving into Trump mania is current New Jersey governor and former Republican candidate for president, Chris Christie.
On Friday, he announced that of all the candidates left, Trump is the one who most represents his values.
Which actually makes a lot of sense, right?
Donald and I have been friends for over a decade, Christie said.
The Republican governor, who dropped out from the race himself after the New Hampshire primary, called Trump a clear standout who can provide strong, unequivocal leadership.
What exactly does Christie mean by strong, unequivocal leadership ?
Bullying.It s a strange, twisted irony that Chris Christie saw his election chances dwindle to zero because the brash, quick-to-anger, petty governor was outdone by Trump, a man who could do all of those things, only infinitely better than Christie himself.
Christie was planning on running on his record of bullying teachers and union employees, screaming at constituents and attacking political rivals with underhanded tactics.
That was supposed to, in Republican terms, make him look tough and capable.
But then Trump came along a guy who had no problem telling his fans to physically beat up protesters.
Who bragged about being able to kill a person in broad daylight.
Who used any slight real or imagined to viciously go after his opponents in ways that were ugly, even for Washington.
Trump is the man Christie wishes he could be.But it s a two-way street.
No doubt, Christie s endorsement will help Trump solidify his place as the real front-runner in the race.
Christie is considered an establishment Republican and his support of Trump legitimizes the former reality television star.
It also helps that Christie, before he bowed out, single-handedly destroyed Marco Rubio during a debate.
Now that Rubio is running at a distance second place to Trump, Christie can serve as an ever-present reminder of that surreal Robot Rubio software glitch moment.Notice in the wake of the endorsement, nothing is being said of Christie s integrity -that s simply because Christie has none.
The man will gladly bash Obama to earn votes then give him a hug when he comes to save his state from a natural disaster.
Then he ll go right back to bashing him.
Likewise, for months, Christie told voters that Trump was a dangerous and unserious candidate.
Now, he throws his reputation behind him, happy to ride his coattails all the way to a cabinet position in a Trump White House.Opportunistic, self-serving and two-faced, it s like Christie was born to endorse Trump.
They have so much in common.Featured image via YouTube screenshot