When Donald Trump recently said he would love to have a debate with Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders during his appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live, he probably didn t think it would actually happen despite the fact that he bragged about how much the debate would have such high ratings.
But it turned out that Sanders was more than happy to fulfill The Donald s request, knowing full well that he could wipe the debate floor with the presumptive Republican nominee on any day of the week and not even break a sweat doing it.
In teasing about the debate, Trump challenged Bernie to raise $10 million for charity a mission that Sanders immediately accepted by responding on Twitter: Game On.
I look forward to debating Donald Trump in California before the June 7th primary.
So although Trump might have never actually intended on having a face off with the Vermont senator and is likely regretting opening his big mouth (for once), it looks like it might actually happen!We can t wait to see Sanders put Trump in his place, and fortunately we have something to hold us over.
We can easily get a preview of what the debate is going to look like thanks to the Trump vs. Bernie Web/TV Series and live tour, which is the genius comedy project of James Adomian (Bernie) and Anthony Atamanuik (Trump).These two comedians have brought Sanders and Trump to life with their spot-on impersonations, perfectly capturing Trump s ability to be offensive and effectively avoid answering direct questions, as well as Sanders unwavering dedication to human rights movements and the middle class.
This skit is absolutely brilliant, and really gives us a taste of what we might actually see before Trump gets his ass handed to him in real life.You can watch the hilarious special below:Let s just hope Trump doesn t chicken out of the real debate!
Sanders campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, said Bernie is ready to go: We are ready to debate Donald Trump.
We hope he will not chicken out.
I think it will be great for America to see these two candidates and the different visions they have for America going forward.
What we ll have to see, is does Donald Trump have the courage to get on the stage with Bernie Sanders.
That remains to be seen.
Featured image is a screenshot