Donald Trump can t handle the complexity of running the White House and heads are reportedly going to roll for it.It has now been over three weeks since Donald Trump took over the White House and he still can t deal with all the problems that have plagued his administration.
Infighting, power grabs, and ineptness have created an atmosphere of paranoia and mistrust.Reince Priebus has done a poor job as chief of staff while Sean Spicer, whom Priebus supported for Trump s Press Secretary, has done an equally poor job by embarrassing himself and Trump every time he faces reporters at the daily press briefing.National security adviser Michael Flynn, meanwhile, just got busted negotiating with the Russian government over sanctions in violation of the Logan Act.
Flynn lied about talking to the Russian ambassador prior to Trump taking over the presidency and the Logan Act specifically bars citizens from negotiating with foreign powers.
The White House is showing not the amount of order that we need to see.
I think there s a lot of weakness coming out of the chief of staff, Trump supporter and Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy told CNN recently.Axios reports that many staffers are insecure because Trump only respects people who are personally financially successful, which is why he chose many Goldman Sachs executives and employees to work for the administration.A White House source also told Axios that Trump and his team have to put out 400 fires a day.
Yeah, it s apparently THAT chaotic.The source further told Axios that Flynn is certain to be canned soon because he committed an unpardonable sin by making Trump and Pence look like fools.Donald Trump has no clue what he is doing and he only digs a deeper hole by pretending that he does.
His ego is so fragile that he won t concede that he can t do the job.
His advisers each have an agenda of their own and they are fighting with each other for Trump s ear.
It also doesn t help that Trump s advisers are inept whenever the appear on television to defend their boss.Trump also has to deal with reports that Steve Bannon is basically calling the shots, leading many people to refer to Bannon as President Bannon.
That must really be bruising Trump s ego.Frankly, Trump only has himself to blame for the chaos in the White House.
He actually thought he would be inheriting President Obama s White House staff and found out rather late in the game that he would have to hire his own.
Furthermore, Trump didn t drain the swamp, he just hired actual snakes to make the swamp dirtier.Our country can t take four years of Trump and his minions in office.
A lot of damage has already been done and in order to prevent irreversible damage Trump and his administration need to be ousted before our nations pays severe consequences for the mistake made on November 8, 2016.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images