Donald Trump is causing mass chaos within the Republican Party as infighting over endorsements reaches a fever pitch.On Friday, New Jersey governor and former Republican presidential candidate Chris Christie threw his support behind Donald Trump, in spite of repeatedly attacking him while on the campaign trail.Gov.
Christie s endorsement brought New Jersey s former governor Christie Whitman out of the woodwork on Sunday.
She blasted Christie s endorsement of Trump, saying if he wins the party s nomination, she will be voting for Hillary Clinton.The former governor told nj.com, I am ashamed that Christie would endorse anyone who has employed the kind of hate mongering and racism that Trump has.
I would have thought being from a diverse state would have given him more awareness and compassion.
Christie claimed that if Trump wins the nomination, we ll see a lot of republicans back Hillary Clinton instead.Jeb Bush staffers also blasted Christie for endorsing Trump.David Kochel, Bush s chief strategist during his now-defunct campaign for the GOP nomination, blasted Christie on Twitter.Bush s former campaign spokesman posted a whole series of Tweets blasting Christie as well:Image credit: Tim Miller via TwitterTo be fair, Chris Christie isn t the only Republican to endorse Trump.Trump s also earned the endorsement of former Arizona Governor and all around crazy person, Jan Brewer.
Not surprisingly, the former governor is most excited about Trump s delusional promise to build a wall along the Mexican border, which he says will keep out all the scary brown people.Maine s governor, Paul LePage, who is currently tied with Michigan Governor Rick Snyder for worst governor in the United States, has also endorsed Donald Trump.
Like Christie, LePage publicly denounced Trump last week.Trump also has been endorsed by at least two Republican members of Congress.
Rep. Chris Collins of New York praised Trump s understanding of American exceptionalism, while Rep. Duncan Hunter of California threw his support behind the candidate only after realizing that absolutely no-one was going to vote for Mike Huckabee.Trump also has earned endorsements from former half-term governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin, and the Daily Stormer, the country s most popular Neo-Nazi website.Meanwhile, South Carolina republican Lindsey Graham blasted everyone who supports Trump, saying that he s run out of adjectives to describe how bad I think Donald Trump is for the party and for the country.
As for Trump, during an interview with Good Morning America, he said that endorsements are a waste of time.
To prove it, as Christie attempted to take the stage at a Trump rally yesterday, apparently to announce his not-so-coveted endorsement, audio captured the GOP frontrunner telling Christie to get back on the plane and go home.Watch the hilarious video here.Image credit: Michael Vadon, via wikemedia commons