On Tuesday, a hot mic at a House Republican presser caught someone saying exactly what we were all thinking.After House Speaker Paul Ryan told press that he was kept in the dark about Donald Trump s Muslim ban, someone was heard complaining that the press conference was a waste of my f*cking time.
Initially, it was rumored that Ryan who had just told press that he and other Republicans were kept in the dark about Trump s Muslim ban until it was being implemented had uttered the words.
While he would have had every reason, Mediaite quickly quelled the rumor before it spread (a nice contrast to what we see happen in conservative media):Watching the video, Ryan was well away from the microphones when the comment was tossed out.
In all likelihood, this was either a reporter or a tech who was a little too close (and loud) to the network s mic.The accusation was initially made by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi s Deputy Chief of Staff Drew Hammill.
Because he is adult, he apologized for the error and everyone went on with their day..@BrendanBuck tells me that was not his boss.
Will take his word for it and I apologized.
Drew Hammill (@Drew_Hammill) January 31, 2017@Drew_Hammill thank you.
appreciate it.
he s not really an f-bomb guy.
Brendan Buck (@BrendanBuck) January 31, 2017But Ryan might as well have said it was a waste of his time, because it was.
Today, we received confirmation that Donald Trump is completely shutting even his political allies out of the decision-making process.
We were briefed on the contents of it as it was being rolled out, Ryan said.
Clearly, none of us want to see people with green cards get implicated in this.
And that s not the goal here.
What the president has asked us to focus on, something that we ve ran on, is we ve got to secure our border, he continued.
We have a border security problem, that s what the physical barrier on the border is all about and we have security concerns given this age of terrorism, given the fact that we have drugs coming across our border, we have an opioid problem.
There are lots of reasons why our focus is first and foremost is on border security, Ryan said.In other words, they ve been told to sit in the corner while daddy does the important stuff.This press conference was a waste of time.
The Republican Party (and Congress as a whole) has been largely shut out of any major decisions in this country if Trump even remotely has the power to just do it himself and unfortunately, he intends to use the full power of the presidency to do the same thing to America that he does to his businesses.Whomever was caught complaining was 100 percent right.
There was no need for anyone to be there or for Republicans to pretend that they are even remotely important anymore in Trump s America.
Thank you, anonymous hero, for pointing out exactly what is wrong with our country at the moment.Featured image via screengrab