As droves of women come forward to tell of the horrifying sexual, predatory attacks they ve endured at the hands of Republican nominee Donald Trump, another testimony is making headlines and it comes from a longtime Trump Organization executive.Barbara Res worked for Trump for 18 years as an executive vice president and senior vice president, and became well-known because Trump would often mention her whenever he was accused of being a misogynist.
As expected, her recollection of Trump says otherwise.In an interview on CNN, Res told Alisyn Camerota that she was not only supporting Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, but gave Americans a brutal lesson about why supreme sexist Trump should not be allowed anywhere near the White House.
Res was brutal in her criticism, and every word she spoke was true.
She held nothing back as she trashed her former boss: First of all, everyone knows he has no experience.
I mean, the idea that he would be president is just ridiculous.
I have other developers I worked for who were just as smart or smarter than he was, and I wouldn t vote for them for president, either.
Res argued that all presidential candidates before Trump have at least some grasp of how government and the world works, as well as some experience under their belt.
Res says this is the exact opposite of what has happened with Trump: The way he shows himself, he doesn t seem to know basic civics.
Then, she drops a major truth bomb on voters, telling them the terrifying things she s learned about Trump while working for him.
She said: The worst thing about Trump, and the reason not to vote for him for president, is his temperament.
He flies off the handle, he attacks viciously it s like shooting someone and having a nuclear bomb come back at you.
He s vindictive, and he s dishonest.He always was dishonest, all the time I worked with him.
We never knew when he was telling the truth or when he wasn t and I don t think that that s what we need in a president.
You can listen to Res warn America about Trump below:Former Trump executive: The worst thing about Trump, and the reason not to vote for him, is his temperament.
https://t.co/kCwtELmC3c New Day (@NewDay) October 13, 2016In another interview, Res has tackled the recent evidence that Trump is a misogynist.
Res addressed the leaked audio tape where Trump made lewd comments about sexually assaulting women and told Olivia Nuzzi of The Daily Beast: I had never heard him say p*ssy before.
I heard him say f*ck a million times.
The way he said it I just grab it I was shocked at that, and then you know, when I took the time to put it into context, I said, yeah, that s right.
He s terribly sexist.
He s a womanizer for sure.
He hired me for a specific reason: Because I was really good.
And he told me, and he believed this, that women had to work harder and be smarter and were willing to work harder than men, and that s what he wanted, and he had a couple of women working for him Men are better than women, he said, but a good woman is better than 10 men.
I think he thought I would take it as a compliment, and I think it was intended as a compliment.
Res words couldn t have come at a better time.
The truth about Trump is starting to become louder, and we hope America is listening.Featured image is a screenshot