During an interview on Fox News, alleged president Donald Trump referred to North Korea s current leader Kim Jong-un as that gentleman while never saying his name.
This didn t happen just once, but twice.
I don t want to telegraph what I m doing or what I m thinking, Trump told Fox News Ainsley Earhardt.
I m not like other administrations where they say, We re going to do this in four weeks.
It doesn t work that way.
We ll see what happens.
I hope things work out well.
I hope there s going to be peace.
Things even got weirder when Trump said, You know, they ve been talking with this gentleman for a long time.
You read Clinton s book, he said, Oh, we made such a great peace deal, and it was a joke.
You look at different things over the years with President Obama.
Everybody has been outplayed, they ve all been outplayed by this gentleman.
And we ll see what happens.
But I just don t telegraph my moves.
However, Kim Jong-un assumed control of the country following his father s death in 2011 so we re not sure how Bill Clinton was outplayed by the 33-year-old dictator.
This gentleman Trump was referring to was Kim Jong-il.
They are two different people.
And for the record, we ve had peace since the Korean war, so those deals were successful in maintaining peace unlike the posturing Trump is doing, which is escalating tension to a level that has never been seen before.As reporter Ana Marie Cox from MTV News pointed out in a tweet, Trump doesn t know who is in power in North Korea.Guys.
Guys.
I don t think Trump knows who s the leader of North Korea.
https://t.co/Gm1o6xV4AD pic.twitter.com/JYtGKIDJde Ana Marie Cox (@anamariecox) April 18, 2017It was just last week that Trump revealed that it took Chinese president Xi Jinping just 10 minutes to convince him that solving problems with North Korea is not so easy.
Guys, this is totally not scary at all.
Trump is making war noises at a dictator who has been dead for years and the former reality show star thinks the former North Korean leader is alive and well.
Or maybe he thinks the younger dictator has been in power since the 1990s.
Who knows.
The dumbing of America is in effect, apparently.Photo by Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images