HERE S A FIRSTHAND ACCOUNT OF SOMEONE WHO ATTENDED THE TRUMP RALLY LAST NIGHT:I voted in my first election in 1996 straight R ticket for Dole.
In 2000, I understood the uniparty and supported, donated and voted for Patrick J. Buchanan because he was a great man and the uniparty sold out the United States on immigration, trade and foreign policy.
Since this time I have been an America First Nationalist.I have not cast a single vote since and totally gave up following politics until I happened to turn on Faux and see Donald speaking at Laredo in early July.
I knew his views on trade and foreign policy and seeing him come out strongly on immigration sealed the deal.
I have watched nearly every rally since and been totally engaged like all of you for this great journey.
Now on to today s rally.My mom and I arrived at noon and the lines were beginning to form.
There was a mix of young and old, rich and poor, blue collar and white collar.
There were many, many blue collar and union former democrats who were 100% supporting Trump, understood the Nationalism vs. Globalism war and everything discussed on this site.
I also talked to several Middle Eastern UIC students who supported Donald and shared the sentiments expressed on this site.A busload of police were dropped off to begin duty and we all applauded and cheered them.
As they filed past, you could see them smiling and appreciating our support.
There were only a handful of thugs across the street at this time, and we, in unison chanted Trump, Trump, Trump , Build that Wall , Blue lives matter , etc.
We were a vocal and united front against the Marxist filth.When we went inside my mother and I were able to get on the floor about ten feet away from the podium.
I met a woman who has read the Treehouse since the Zimmerman case, a lawyer all-in for Trump who was a Milton Friedman advocate, and other wonderful people.
There were many young people and some families.We began noticing some obvious BLM thugs and Bernie type people (maybe about 15-20) behind us.
We spread the word to those around us, so everyone knew.
Periodically, we all did pro Trump chants and were anxiously awaiting our President.
Several times the crowd erupted as protesters were carted out behind us on the floor as we chanted Build that Wall or another patriotic chant.Around 7 pm, an announcer came to the stage and said the rally was cancelled.
The trash behind us unfurled anti-white, pro illegal alien signs and shirts with anti-white slurs.
We all began calling them scumbags and taping them.
They tried chanting, but we drowned them out.
They were basically pushed to the back of the floor area.
A taller, well dressed man single handedly ripped a banner from the hands of five Bernouts.At this point, we could see that a large contingent of Marxists were filling the back end seats of the arena.
Some unveiled Bernie signs and chanted Bernie), but they were once again drowned out by proud Nationalists.
We advanced all the way to the back of the arena.
Someone supportive of Trump took to the podium and led us in chants of USA, USA .
We were strong, loud, proud and infuriated.Then a black thug tried taking the microphone but was restrained and shoved away by two campaign people.
He tried throwing punches at someone in the stands and a middle aged white working class guy knocked him to the floor.
The State Police and Chicago cops arrived and walked down the stairs as an announcement for everyone to leave played.The protesters were ignorant, vulgar, vile scum who were insulting Trump people as we left, but we gave it back in spades in unity and strength.
Outside was a huge mob of BLM, communists, Bernouts, illegal aliens and other assorted scum.
In the parking deck, I met three college kids who understood cultural marxism and told me about the indoctrination of white guilt in our schools today.
One thing was certain, everyone there was even more united and energized in their support for Donald and in despise for the leftist scum who took away our right of assembly and free speech.As we pulled out of the parking garage, we ran a gauntlet of anti-white, anti-American trash cursing us, flipping us off and calling us racists.
All I can tell you is that my mom said she had not seen anything so disgusting since the King riots in Joliet in 1968.Folks, I think Nationalism is out of the bag, its here to stay and the marxists wll soon be on the run.
The whole world can see that we have lost our right to assemble peacefully and stand up for our nation.The Silent Majority is silent no more and we are going straight to the White House.VIA: TCT