The father of a Virginia reporter who was shot to death last year, along with her cameraman, has some extremely strong words for Republicans over their refusal to do anything about gun violence.
He reserved his most scathing words for Trump, though, who actively promotes the idea that the 2nd Amendment is under heavy assault and we re just a breath away from losing all our guns.Andy Parker, whose daughter, Alison Parker, was murdered by a disgruntled employee on television, made it his mission to end gun violence after her death.
He rails at Republicans who are in the pockets of the all-too powerful NRA in an op-ed for the New York Daily News, which was a full-scale attack on them, and especially on Trump: Politicians like Paul Ryan, Mike McCaul and Bob Goodlatte know better.
They re not knuckle-draggers waving Confederate flags at Trump rallies, but they still fall in lockstep behind their orange-faced Fuhrer who promotes this assault on the Second Amendment nonsense.
Their bloody hands are egregiously in the pockets of the NRA and they are afraid to pull them out.
[emphasis mine] Orange-faced Fuhrer.
That s a good description.
That s a fantastic description of Trump and his relationship to the GOP!
Trump is not just promoting the very things that have led to increased gun violence here, he s far more likely than anybody else to become the dictator America (especially Republicans) have always feared.Parker went on to say that he d confronted Bob Goodlatte after a speech about slain police officers, in which Goodlatte never once mentioned guns, and asked him how he sleeps at night.
Apparently, Goodlatte had no answer for that.
Parker said, As usual, he looked like he d swallowed a lemon.
Trump and the NRA s minions in the GOP grossly insult all the victims of gun violence by fear-mongering about Democrats trying to abolish the 2nd Amendment.
It s like a game to them; who can come up with the most guilt-trippy argument against sensible gun legislation?
Here s what former GOP Congressman Joe Walsh did:Liberals shout women s equality , yet they seek to strip women of their 2nd Amendment rights.
#WomensEqualityDay pic.twitter.com/7vOCNocqPO Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) August 26, 2016How disgusting to use rape victims and women s equality as a rallying cry for their guns, guns, guns everywhere nonsense.
But that s what the GOP and their standard-bearer, the Orange-Faced Fuhrer, do nonstop.
They use victims of violence to expand the very thing that harmed them in the first place.Parker vows to continue the fight and move the needle on the national conversation about gun violence, and that means fighting against the GOP and the NRA.
He had this to say in his op-ed, too: Their bloody hands are egregiously in the pockets of the NRA and they are afraid to pull them out.
That is the truth.Featured image by Mark Wilson/Getty Images