Jayme Liardi makes no secret of the fact that he s isolationistic and xenophobic, and also seems to support, or at least sympathize with, Nazi ideology.
That s not hyperbole he actually does at least appear to be sympathetic to the Nazis, if not an outright supporter.Now he s created a group for young Trump fans and other young xenophobic conspiracy theorists with a name that bears a striking resemblance to the Hitler Youth.
It s called the Trump Youth.
While they don t mention Trump s name anywhere other than in their own name, the purpose is clear: Donald Trump represents an end to globalism, an end to multiculturalism, and an end to what Liardi clearly sees as the myth of equality.In a video he s made for the Trump Youth, he speaks of the parasites that we must throw off our backs: These parasites, they want war, they want destruction, they want slavery, and they re getting it.
And unless we hold them accountable, unless we take justice into our own hands, and throw these parasites off our backs, the world will come to chaos.
[emphasis mine]He goes on to preach fear about the New World Order, which is made up of the globalists that are trying to destroy the world.
Watch his entire fear-laced spiel below: The Trump Youth are the hero generation.
What does that whole thing sound like?
It s not just that Liardi sees globalists as parasites.
Nazis considered the Jews to be parasites that fed on society, and were the root of their problems from the end of WWI, into WWII: In this war for the very existence of the German people, we must daily remind ourselves that Jewry unleashed this war against us As early as 1922 the F hrer said: We were also those who for the first time made major efforts to explain to the people a danger that had crept up on us, and which millions of people did not recognize, even though it threatened to ruin us all: the danger of the Jews The German people has recognized that the Jew has crept in like a parasite not only into our people, but into all the peoples of the earth, and that it is attempting to corrupt the original racial characteristics of the peoples in order to destroy them both racially and as states, and thereby rule over them.
[emphasis mine]On his own website, Liardi says of WWII: WWII was a turning point in human history.
A battle of opposite ideologies.
Nationalism vs Globalism, International Communism vs Nazism Our world today is the world of the victors, the world of the so-called Allies.On one path you have globalism.
This is the world of capitalism/communism The world of blind equality : All races, cultures and ethnicities are the same, the sexes are the same, each individual is essentially the same.
In our sameness, in our equality we are all one homogenous goop, rootless and without an identity, able to be exploited by the tyrants, our alleged representatives that we have in power today.
If you have no identity, one will be installed into you by the kosher forces of The State.
[emphasis mine]So there you have it.
A blond-haired, fair-skinned young man trying to create a group to fight for the same nationalism for which the Nazis fought.
That he calls the group the Trump Youth indicates he may be a white supremacist himself, since it s evocative of the Hitler Youth and since Trump has received endorsements and support from known white supremacists (but don t call them that.
They don t like it).Liardi is definitely a racist, a nationalist, and a conspiracy theorist, and he wants to gather other xenophobic racists to bring Trump s ideology to fruition, possibly even if Trump doesn t get electedFeatured image via screen capture from embedded video