If you listen to Republicans, the Affordable Care Act is the worst thing since Caillou first aired on television or, something to that effect.
While Ted Cruz may claim that millions of Americans are hurting because of the jobs that have been destroyed since the passage of Obamacare, Marco Rubio says that We have a crazy health care law that discourages companies from hiring people, and Carly Fiorina ignorantly asserts that Obamacare is crushing small businesses, none of that seems to be happening.Not only do we enjoy the lowest uninsured rate in history, but 2014 the first full year of implementation of the Affordable Care Act treated us to a 15-year high in job growth.
2015 wasn t too shabby either, with the two full years in which Obamacare has been up and running being the best back-to-back years since there were new episodes of Full House.As Forbes Dan Diamond noted last week, since Obamacare was signed into law in March 2010 (or Armageddon as conservatives call it) the private sector hasn t lost any jobs.
In fact, Obama is the worst job-killing President in recent history, if that is actually his goal.MSNBC took Diamond s graph and made some alterations showing job growth under George W. Bush compared to under President Obama.
Clearly, after inheriting the dismal economy left to us by the Bush administration, the President and his evil socialist cohorts attempted to destroy America by putting people back to work: But whenever this or related topics come up, I hear from conservatives who insist that the data is deceptive because most of the new jobs are part-time, not full-time, Maddow blog s Steve Benen notes.
This pesky detail makes the seemingly good news appear far more discouraging.
This would, of course, be heavily disconcerting, he notes if it were true.
Vox s Sarah Kliff reported on Monday that the part-time theory is complete and utter bullsh*t:[N]ew research in the journal Health Affairs suggests they weren t the norm: The data shows no national trend toward more part-time employment under the Affordable Care Act even if you drill into the type of people you d expect to get hit hardest.Is Obamacare hurting the economy or the job market?
All signs point to no but that won t stop Republicans from trying to figure out a way.
Or, of course, they might just make some stuff up.
They re good at that.Featured image via MSNBC