A teenage girl in Oklahoma is being charged as an adult for the murder of her mother s abusive boyfriend.Makayla Brown, 14, now has first-degree murder charges against her for shooting 45-year-old Mario Smith after she witnessed him pistol whipping her mother a few weeks prior.
Makayla s mother Tysa was in Smith s house at the time of the shooting, along with several other friends and family members.According to Merill Carter, who is Smith s cousin and was a witness to the event, Makayla went into the kitchen to retrieve a gun and then shot Smith in the head.
An Oklahoma Bureau of Investigation said: Terry and Tysa drove over to Mario s residence to check on Mario.
Tysa had been in a relationship with Mario, but hadn t heard from Mario in quite some time.
Terry reported that evening, she and Tysa both had a bad feeling about Mario, like something was not okay with him.
Mario (the victim) was on the west side of the kitchen bar and was searching for his stash.
Terry saw Mario bend down.
At the time Mario bent over, Terry saw Makayla pull out the caramel-colored gun and shoot Mario in the head.
Smith was found on the kitchen floor, lying in a pool of his blood two days later.
He was killed just one day before he was due in court for 14+ felony charges of methamphetamine, marijuana, stealing, firearms, assault and battery.According to reports, it seems as though Makayla s mother was not involved in the shooting.
The affidavit said: When Mario was shot, [the victim s cousin Merrill] Carter could hear Tysa yelling and crying and he saw she was visibly upse.
Carter didn t think Terry had anything to do with Mario s death either.
According to a report by an unnamed woman, Makayla was laughing and bragging about the incident two days later.
The source said that Makayla had gone into her house and was openly bragging about killing him.
In speaking to authorities, Makayla admitted that the reason she shot Smith was because he had been abusive to her mother in the past.
Alexis Terry, a friend of Tysa s, backed up Makayla s claim that Smith was abusive to Tysa.You can watch the report below:Makayla is now being held without bond in Payne County, and is being charged as an adult.This is truly a heartbreaking and difficult situation.
It s uncertain what exactly took place right before Makayla shot Smith, but now a child is facing murder charges for trying to protect her mother, when she is not even been old enough to grasp the consequences of her actions.
It s unfortunate that it was so easy for her to get her hands on a gun and take action.
Now, she is facing the consequences that are meant for someone much older than herself.Should a child be thrown in jail for killing their mother s abuser?Featured image is a screenshot