Assuming Hillary Clinton wins Tuesday s election, as she s predicted to do, she will owe at least part of her success to the Senate Minority Leader and Senior Senator from Nevada, Harry Reid.Nevada, which is a traditional red state, is a tossup this year.
FiveThirtyEight shows both Donald Trump and Clinton in a statistical near tie, but early voting trends seem to be putting the race firmly in Clinton s camp.
This is especially good news for Clinton because if she wins Nevada s six electoral votes, it will mean that she can still afford to lose Florida and North Carolina.
Trump won t (and doesn t) have that luxury.
If Clinton does win, that will be Reid s doing:Yet about one thing Trump was right: Harry Reid built this.
After two years of boosting voter registration among key Democratic demographics, the retiring Senate minority leader has brought turnout among Hispanics in the state to record levels.
In doing so, he s almost surely delivered the state for Hillary Clinton and possibly with it the presidential race (Trump has only the narrowest path to 270 electoral votes without Nevada).
The reality of this election is that if Clinton wins, especially if she ends up needing Nevada, it s not a stretch to declare that Reid was the single most important person in her victory.Source: PoliticoTrump is complaining about the turnout of Latino voters, but he has no one to blame but himself.
His campaign began by attacking Mexican immigrants and calling them rapists and drug dealers, and it expanded into an all out attack on immigrants.
Then, there was the judge he said couldn t be partial since he was Mexican.
The judge isn t. He s Mexican-American.
Or, there are Trump s attacks on Univision s Jorge Ramos.
The list could go on, but it s cost Trump big.
Clinton has the support of 3/4 of Latinos and Trump has the lowest approval rating among Latinos than anyone in more than 30 years.Reid s ground operation exploited the fear and loathing of Trump to the max, and the early results bear it out: Whereas the Latino vote was 15 percent of the Nevada electorate in 2008 and 18 percent in 2012, data I have seen shows now it is up 30 percent from 2012 in early voting, meaning it could go above 20 percent of all voters by Tuesday evening.
We ve been focused on registering and building our Latino turnout from Day 1, said one Democratic organizer.
That is paying dividends with Latino turnout up in the early vote and potentially up overall.
In five out of the six highest Hispanic precincts, turnout in the early vote exceeded 12.
Right now, Nevada appears almost un-winnable for Trump.
If he loses, that will pretty much seal his fate.
As for Reid, well, he will no longer be in office and the Senate race in Nevada is a squeaker, but it s hard to imagine that if Hillary walks away with the state in her pocket, so will Cortez Masto, the Democratic poised to replace Reid.Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images.