Secretary of State Rex Tillerson s better get busy running the State Department because the entire senior level of management officials resigned Wednesday over alleged president Donald Trump.
This is only part of the ongoing mass exodus of senior foreign service officers following Trump s election.Trump s team was looking for people to fill Tillerson s Number one and two positions as well as three officials and looking to replace the State Department s undersecretary for management, Patrick Kennedy, The Washington Post reports.
Kennedy held that job for nine years and hoped to keep it under Tillerson.
He was actively involved in the transition.Then suddenly:Then suddenly on Wednesday afternoon, Kennedy and three of his top officials resigned unexpectedly, four State Department officials confirmed.
Assistant Secretary of State for Administration Joyce Anne Barr, Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Michele Bond and Ambassador Gentry O. Smith, director of the Office of Foreign Missions, followed him out the door.
All are career foreign service officers who have served under both Republican and Democratic administrations.On Jan. 20th, Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security Gregory Starr retired.
On that same day, the director of the Bureau of Overseas Building Operations, Lydia Muniz, left her position.
It s the single biggest simultaneous departure of institutional memory that anyone can remember, and that s incredibly difficult to replicate, David Wade, who served as State Department chief of staff under Secretary of State John Kerry, told the paper.
Department expertise in security, management, administrative and consular positions in particular are very difficult to replicate and particularly difficult to find in the private sector.
Since the election, several senior foreign service officers in the State Department s regional bureaus have also resigned or retired.
These retirements are a big loss.
They leave a void, said Wade.
These are very difficult people to replace.
This sort of mass exodus has never happened before.
It s not a partisan issue.
These officials worked under both Republican and Democratic administrations.Meanwhile, our newly minted Twitter-addicted president is busy sending out mean-girl tweets on his unsecured Android and trying to prove that he won the popular vote even though he didn t. There s a madman in the White House and senior officials with the State Department want no part of the former reality show star s presidency.Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images.