No hypocrisy here Director Martin Scorsese well known for violent films like Goodfellas, The Departed, and Casino has joined a campaign for the destruction of guns.Scorsese will take part in Carl McCrow s Gun Neutral Campaign, which asks that a real gun be destroyed for every fake gun that is used in a Hollywood production.In December 2014 Breitbart News reported that McCrow was a part of a London-based gun control group called One Less Gun.
At that time they were asking for donations to cover the destruction of a firearm and the donor was told he or she would receive a thank you note in the form of a bullet casing with the serial number of the weapon destroyed etched upon it.One Less Gun said:Like it or not, guns are a part of popular culture.
They are integral to many of our favorite games and films [and] are in all likelihood to remain so for many generations to comes.
One Less Gun is simply dedicated to reducing their number and promoting a social responsibility to this fact.
One Less Gun offers everybody the opportunity to contribute to the solution of this largely ignored problem.
By texting onelessgun to 70007 on your mobile phone you can destroy a gun for 5.
Our target is to destroy one million weapons.
That will save lives, stabilize communities and make a safer world.That campaign has now been complimented by the Gun Neutral Campaign and Scorsese is on board.
For every fake gun used in one of his violent films a real gun that a law-abiding citizen could use for self-defense will be destroyed.
According to The Guardian, McCrow responded to Scorsese s pledge by saying, I m really pleased.
If we can set this as a standard, then who knows how many lives could be saved.
The simple fact is that there are too many guns and they ruin people s lives every day.
By joining the gun control push after making untold millions of dollars creating films riddled with violence, murder, depictions of criminal gun use, and mayhem, Scorsese comes across much like gun-toting action star Liam Neeson.
It was Neeson who emerged after the January 7 terror attacks on Charlie Hebdo headquarters in France to say, There are too many [bleeping] guns out there, especially in America.
Via: Breitbart News