A shocking victory 53% LEAVE 47% STAYIt was at three o'clock in the morning that it became clear that Leave would win https://t.co/23HHvtL3I9 John Rentoul (@JohnRentoul) June 24, 2016Watch HERE to see the outspoken UKIP Party leader, Nigel Farage only months ago destroy EU elitist leaders, Germany s Angela Merkle and France s Francois Hollande on their willingness to open their borders to economic migrants and people who have no intention of assimilating in their countries.As results poured in, a picture emerged of a sharply divided nation: Strong pro-EU votes in the economic and cultural powerhouse of London and semi-autonomous Scotland were countered by sweeping anti-Establishment sentiment for an exit across the rest of England, from southern seaside towns to rust-belt former industrial powerhouses in the north.
A lot of people s grievances are coming out and we have got to start listening to them, said deputy Labour Party leader John McDonnell.With more than 16 million of an expected 30 million votes counted, the result was closely split, with the leave ahead by a few hundred thousand votes and remain underperforming analysts expectations.
Few remain strongholds are doing better than expected, said John Curtice, a University of Strathclyde political scientist and BBC election analyst.
There are far more places where leave are doing better than expected.
It may be possible that the experts are going to have egg on their face later on tonight, he said.A vote to leave the EU would destabilize the 28-nation trading bloc, created from the ashes of World War II to keep the peace in Europe.
A remain vote would nonetheless leave Britain divided and the EU scrambling to reform.The British pound plunged to a 31-year low on Friday as results in the country s European Union referendum gave the leave side a small but growing lead.The figures delivered a deep shock to financial markets, overturning earlier anticipation of a narrow victory for remain .
The pound initially soared as polls closed and two opinion surveys put remain ahead and two leading supporters of the leave campaign said it appeared the pro-EU side had won.But it then suffered one of its biggest one-day falls in history, plummeting from about $1.50 to below $1.35 as results suggested a strong possibility the UK would vote to quit the bloc.
As results poured in, a picture emerged of a sharply divided nation: Strong pro-EU votes in the economic and cultural powerhouse of London and semi-autonomous Scotland were countered by sweeping anti-Establishment sentiment for an exit across the rest of England, from southern seaside towns to rust-belt former industrial powerhouses in the north.Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has declared June 23 Britain s Independence Day .
Via: UK Daily Mail Birmingham votes to Leave.
Full results: https://t.co/4hLZofNaC7 #EURef pic.twitter.com/6m86YJwgSF BBC Election (@bbcelection) June 24, 2016 Here is a screen shot of the BBC s most recent polling results: For live updates, go here: BBC Nigel Farage had said even if the Leave campaign loses the referendum we will win this war .
Nigel Farage is a BIG winner today!The UKIP leader said Eurosceptics had been dismissed as fringey and fruitcakes in the past but would attract around 50% of votes cast.While Remain might edge a win, he said: The Eurosceptic genie is out of the bottle and will not be put back .Of the EU, he said: If we do stay part of this union it s doomed it s finished anyway.
The UK voted on Thursday in a referendum on to leave or remain part of the European Union.Outspoken UKIP Party leader Nigel Farage has won!
The UK has voted to break free from the globalistVia: BBC