It s finally over.
Now that Donald Trump has been kinda-sorta elected president by a historic minority of voters and a system put in place thanks to lobbying by slave owners, Republicans have decided that a headline-grabbing fake investigation into Hillary Clinton just isn t necessary anymore.In multiple desperate attempts to blame the tragic Benghazi terrorist attacks on Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, Republicans spent years betraying taxpayers by knowingly wasting millions of their dollars doing their best not to uncover the truth, but to turn public perception against the president and the former secretary of state.
Principled conservatives and other stupid people rallied around the cause as Trump and Stein supporters, unable to tell fact from fiction, used Benghazi and any other fake scandal they heard about on Infowars to demand that Clinton be jailed or even executed for imagined crimes.Yes, it was propaganda it was effective taxpayer-funded propaganda.
But it s over now.
Trump will be our next president, the committee has lost interest, and (most importantly), the truth of the millions-of-dollars-worth of investigations is laid bare: it was all an effort to hoodwink voters.
Every.
Single.
Bit.
Of.
It.While the panel s chairman, Trey Gowdy, loudly trumpeted every facet of this witch hunt at every step of the way, the final report was added to the official house record without so much as a peep from him.
The reason?
He d accomplished his purpose.
There s no longer any need for him to abuse his position to play politics now that the game he was playing is over.
USA Today has a nice rundown of the damage that was done:The special committee was created in May 2014 to investigate the terrorist attacks at the U.S. compound in eastern Libya where four Americans died, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens.In June, the Benghazi Committee report was endorsed by the Republican committee members but not the Democrats.
It severely criticized military, CIA and Obama administration officials for their response as the attacks unfolded and their subsequent explanations to the American people.
It accused the government of incompetence at various levels, including a failure to deploy needed military assets, CIA intelligence reports that were rife with errors, and misguided planning even in the midst of the violence.
The report did not single out wrongdoing by then-secretary of State Hillary Clinton, although some Republicans on the panel alleged that overall concern for her political future influenced and hampered some of the decision-making surrounding policy in Libya.Clinton s use of a private email server while she was secretary of State was revealed as part of the Benghazi investigation, but the committee did not investigate whether the setup led to improper handling of classified information.
The FBI declined to pursue criminal charges regarding the email system, but it was a major issue in the 2016 presidential election.Gowdy on Monday called the report the final, definitive accounting of the Benghazi attacks.
The committee is proud to have been able to tell the story of the ingenuity and bravery displayed by our nation s heroes in Benghazi, who banded together to save one another when no other help was ever on the way, Gowdy said when asked about the report.
But Rep. Elijah Cummings, the panel s Batman to Gowdy s Aryan Joker, was quick to call it what it was.
Republicans voted on this partisan report five months ago, but delayed filing it and completing the committee until after the election, Cummings says.
Republicans promised a process that was fair and bipartisan, but the American people got exactly the opposite.
If any Republican mentions any aspect of the Benghazi investigation to you ever again, be sure to point out that conservative principles only exist long enough for them to work to someone s political benefit.
Then they just disappear like this investigation did after Trump won and Ebola after the midterms.Featured image via Getty Images/Mark Wilson