Donald Trump has been facing a furious backlash as a result of his most recent comments.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) weighed in on Thursday, slamming his never-ending stream of verbal poo poo.
Pelosi blasted Trump s assertion that President Obama and Hillary Clinton are responsible for the creation of ISIS.
This ridiculous claim, she explained, is just another attempt to keep the attention of the media.
[It] is so bizarre, Pelosi said.
It s reminiscent of demagogues who want to be in the press no matter what they have to say.They make their verbal poo-poo anyplace to get attention.Pelosi didn t hold back and called out Trump s desperation for attention.
According to her, the only thing Trump cares about is keeping all eyes on him.
his is not an accident.
This is a tactic, she said, and here we are talking about it.
Pelosi went on to explain that the blame for the creation of the Islamic State rests squarely on the shoulders of the Bush administration.
The fact is, the invasion of Iraq under misrepresentations to the American people, has done more to inflame the terrorists than any action you can name, Pelosi said.Pelosi then lit into Trump for his suggestion that Second Amendment people are the only ones who can keep Clinton from becoming President and appointing Supreme Court justices who would do away with the right to bear arms altogether.
It was clear that he didn t understand that the words of a presidential candidate, a nominee, weigh a ton, she said.She said that Trump could have chosen any voter base to make his point.
He could have chosen the anti-choice pro-lifers or those against immigration.
But he didn t. He chose to call out the Second Amendment gun nuts, which Pelosi said was very problematic given the manner which he did.
The double meaning that it had, wittingly or not, is very, very problematic very problematic and scary, Pelosi said.
We don t know whether he intended it or not.
But even if he didn t, words weigh a ton.
Rep. Steve Israel (N.Y.), head of the Democrats campaign messaging arm, joined Pelosi in her scathing criticisms of the Republican nominee.
He added that Trump s assertion that he would only support our NATO allies if they pay up jeopardizes our efforts to fight ISIS effectively.
That is typical Trumpian stupidity, Israel said.
I don t mind his absurd statements.
What concerns me are his dangerous policies.
Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images