The Family Research Council s hater-in-chief Tony Perkins is joining his fellow deranged right-wing Christians in insisting that left-wingers are slowly but surely about to outlaw Christianity.
He appeared on D. James Kennedy Ministries Truths That Transform show with the Ministry s president, Frank Wright, and ranted on about how the inability of Christians to force their crazy beliefs on the rest of us somehow means they are being persecuted.
Perkins told Wright: We are not disqualified from engaging in the public square simple because we re Christian.
And that s where we re at today, where people want us to check our Christian faith at the door of even public service; not just holding public office, but if you re a fireman, a policeman, a teacher, a football coach, you re supposed to leave your faith at home or within the confines of the church.
[That is] totally contrary to what the founders envisioned and, I would argue, Frank, totally contrary to what God has called us to do.
The thing is, though, the idea that you cannot bring your religious beliefs into doing jobs in public office and other parts of the public sector is NOT persecution, Mr. Perkins.
It simply means that you cannot force your beliefs on others in the workplace or in the public sector.
That s it.
Nothing more or less.
Further, it is quite ironic that this man is crying foul on this one, considering that his organization s entire purpose is to strip basic civil rights from anyone and everyone who isn t a right-wing Christian, particularly LGBT people.
Hypocrite much?Wright, of course, being just as much of a loon as Perkins, took things a step further, suggesting that any day now, the government would be outlawing the practice of Christianity altogether.
Of course, Perkins latched on to this one, and said: We see this administration, we see the left creating these spiritual ghettos where we are forced into, confined to these areas, trying to quarantine faith so it s more easily controllable.
Get real, you morons.
President Obama isn t trying to get rid of religion; he himself is a Christian.
He s just smart enough to know that America was never meant to be a theocracy, that theocracies don t work, and that our Constitution forbids religion in lawmaking.Then again, when deluded individuals such as these two men speak on such matters, facts fly out the window and are replaced with utter lunacy.Get serious help, STAT, both of you.Watch the video of this insanity below, via Right Wing Watch:Featured image via video screen capture