In what can only be seen as the worst attempt ever to be a George W. Bush apologist, even more so than his own brother Jeb, Sen. Marco Rubio is repeatedly touting the line that Bill Clinton is actually who we should blame for the attacks on 9/11/01.Living in his alternate reality, he fails to see that, unlike George W. Bush, who ignored intelligence and reports that indicated attacks were imminent within the United States by Osama bin Laden, Clinton actually attempted to thwart the terror mastermind s progress just years earlier.
The fact that he wasn t able to rests heavy with Clinton, but to see Rubio clearly ignore Clinton s attempt, and even worse, completely ignore the fact that his beloved George W. Bush was absolutely negligent, goes beyond absurd and inaccurate to just outright pathetic.You can watch him during the GOP debate try to shift blame from Republican President Bush to Democratic President Clinton.
Republicans biggest line that they try to tout is that they will be the ones to keep us safe, when reality shows it s quite the opposite.Watch here:Then the storyteller goes on Meet the Press Sunday morning, and when pressed on the lie by host Chuck Todd, Rubio doesn t backtrack, instead he doubles down.CHUCK TODD: So I m actually still not quite clear.
Are you putting 9/11 on Bill Clinton?MARCO RUBIO: No, I m putting it on his decision not to take out bin Laden, absolutely.
This is what happens when you have a chance to take out the leader of a terrorist organization, and you failed to do so.
And the results are something like 9/11.So, yes, you are putting the blame on Bill Clinton, Rubio, and the fact that you have to meander around directly answering that answer like a used car salesman refusing to say if a car has flood damage, is more proof of that.Watch Rubio be VERY clear that he thinks Clinton is to blame:Does Rubio realize that everyone who is present in reality, and not in the bubble of the lies touted on Fox News, knows that the attacks on 9/11 occurred on George W. Bush s watch?
Does he realize that he s only damaging himself and his reputation by delivering such nonsense time and time again?
Bush didn t keep us safe.
Plain and simple.
Ignoring reality doesn t change facts.Rubio should honestly be ashamed of himself.Featured image: Video screen capture