Hillary Clinton is on the path to be the Democratic nominee for President of the United States.
As the convention nears, Clinton and Sanders are still battling for every last vote, and rightfully so.
But as the contest continues, supporters of both sides have descended into a fighting match over who would be the better option.But what if they both joined forces to take down Donald Trump?Well, while appearing on CNN with Wolf Blitzer, Bernie Sanders left the door open to being Hillary Clinton s vice presidential running mate.
When asked, Sanders responded: Right now, we are focused on the next five weeks of winning the Democratic nomination.
If that does not happen, we are going to fight as hard as we can on the floor of the Democratic convention to make sure that we have a progressive platform that the American people will support.
Then, after that, certainly Secretary Clinton and I can talk and see where we go from there.
Imagine if Sanders and Clinton joined forces to take down the xenophobic blowhard Donald Trump.
Uniting liberals, progressives, moderates and independents with two strong candidates could bring a landslide election that Democrats need to cement a longer lasting legacy.While Republicans are jumping ship at the prospect of Trump being their nominee, Sanders decides to keep the greater good in sight.Sanders has already pledged to work with Democrats on building a progressive party platform, as has Clinton.
The prospect of a Clinton-Sanders ticket would push the frontrunner further to he left, a move her campaign says will not continue.
Should Clinton continue to move left, her campaign fears, would turn off moderate and independent voters who might be swayed by Donald Trump s impending softer image.Media outlets have listed an impressive group of progressive leaders to be Clinton s V.P.
pick, including Senators Sherrod Brown (OH), Tim Kaine (VA), Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Bernie Sanders.
Others include Mike Mullen, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Health and Human Services Secretary Julian Castro, and former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick.Senator Sanders hasn t named off any potential V.P.
picks yet, considering his climb to nomination is steep.
Clinton hasn t come out with any selections yet, but that doesn t mean outlets aren t itching to guess.Some say Clinton shouldn t pick Sanders, saying Vermont is not strategic, and could be seen as a pander and a power grab.But we say it could be a powerhouse of progressive values that would resonate with the majority of Americans.Watch the Senator s remarks, courtesy of CNN: Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images