Her viral post won her the title of racist of the week.
June Pridmore somehow got a job working as the vice-president of loan operations at a Regions Bank in Alabama, but after investigating a recent Facebook post she wrote, Pridmore no longer has a job.In an atrocious, incoherent, and racist post featuring multiple misspellings and poor grammar that make one wonder how the bank picked her for the job in the first place, Pridmore ranted about her support of Donald Trump and trashed President Obama and his wife First Lady Michelle Obama.
I voted him in, Pridmore began in reference to Trump.
I like him.
He has a beautiful wife unlike the ugly and embarrassing woman (for lack of a better word), in the White House now.
Ms. Trump s face would make Michele (sic) O Bama (sic) a Sunday face.
Seriously, does this women not have spellcheck?
I m certainly glad [Trump] he has a lot of money because she he (sic) won t be bought out like Barack (sic), socialist Muslim O Bama (sic) or his wife or all those host of relatives they have in the whitehouse (sic) for US to support.
Oh, you mean his two kids and mother-in-law?
That s only three people, and two of them really didn t have a choice since they are kids.
On the other hand, Donald Trump s family is way bigger and they ve all made a mint mooching off the government and taxpayer dollars.
Plus, it is costing taxpayers $1 million a day to protect Trump in his New York Trump Tower apartment.But Primore still wasn t done.
She ranted about President Obama s vacations, which are less than the number of vacations President Bush and President Reagan took during their presidencies.
And Trump has already expressed his desire to be a part-time president who spends most days at his golden tower or on the golf course instead of in the White House working.And then she said this: If any idiot out there thinks that is justified, you deserved him as president.
I prefer a man who can buy Michele (sic) and Barack and sell them several times over.
Yep, she went there.
A definite reference to slavery.And she went on to bitch about people who are unemployed, calling them lazy non-working takers.
Here s an image of the post via Facebook.This post was too much for Regions Bank, who fired Pridmore after receiving many complaints.Bank spokesman Jeremy King announced the canning in a statement.
We appreciate the concerns shared about offensive social media comments that were made through an associate s personal Facebook account.
We want you to know that we share those concerns.
Those comments do not reflect our values as a company or the way we do business.
The associate is no longer an employee of the company.
So now Pridmore is unemployed and has the new title, Racist of the Week.
Of course that title won t pay the bills unless Donald Trump has position open for another ignorant racist.
Maybe she can use Jeff Sessions as a reference.Featured Image: Facebook