Clearly forgetting that we re in the year 2016 and women are allowed to be strong, Republican Congressman Blaine Luetkemeyer of Missouri decided to recommend Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren be neutered.
Luetkemeyer was speaking at the American Bankers Association conference and said that he considers Warren to be the the Darth Vader of the financial services world and the bankers need to find a way to neuter her.At ABA, Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer calls LIz Warren the "Darth Vader of the financial services world," says need to find way to "neuter" her Joseph Lawler (@josephlawler) March 16, 2016God forbid she want to make sure greed, corruption and fraud are kept out of the banking industry.
Resorting to name-calling isn t only unprofessional, it s inappropriate and juvenile.
So, who better to call this Congressman out than Warren herself.In a fundraising email, she wrote: I won t be neutered Why would he go out of his way to say something so sexist and offensive?
Is he hostile to all women?
Clueless?
Afraid?
And using this opportunity to remind people who they should be fighting with, she said: Let s send the big banks and their buddies in Congress a message: They can try to roll back financial reform and they can have a few laughs about the woman they want to neuter, but we re ready to fight back anytime anywhere.
Warren even threw in a funny jab at the Darth Vader comment, saying: My first thought was: Really?
I ve always seen myself more as a Princess Leia-type.
Warren is strong and not about to quit her fight against corruption where it stands on Wall Street any time soon.
This Congressman is clearly terrified of her, because he knows that with her as a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, he and his cronies are going to be held accountable for the shady business that transpires.Please never stop being you, Senator Warren, and thank you for fighting for Main Street as this Congressman clearly is fighting for Wall Street.Watch Warren discuss the comments while appearing on All In with Chris Hayes on MSNBC.Featured image via video screen capture