Ever since Trump first seized on the flooding in Louisiana as an opportunity to pretend he s presidential, it has been abundantly clear that he has no idea what the f*ck he s doing.
Though Gov.
John Bel Edwards specifically asked Trump to volunteer or donate rather than show up for a photo op, The Donald has the biggest hands, the best brain, and the hugest ideas, so he popped by anyway to spend about a minute handing out Play Doh and other items to flood victims who were much in need of water, food, clothing, and other items typically needed by people who just lost everything in a natural disaster.Trump has spent a good deal of time whining that President Obama did not immediately rush off to Louisiana, but Obama was simply respecting the wishes of the Governor, who said he d rather he give us another week or two.
And then he can visit.
President Obama complied, while Trump showed up anyway.
After all, he was busy crafting a narrative that Barack Obama hates flood victims.
Isn t that more important?Trump, facing criticism for failing to donate money to help, ultimately gave $100 million to a church run by a hate group leader.On Tuesday, after respecting the Governor s wishes and the needs of the people, President Obama toured the flood-damaged areas.
To him, this wasn t a photo op.
To him, this was a tragedy whose victims needed as much support as they could get.
We are heartbroken by the loss of life, Obama told reporters after surveying the devastation that left 13 dead, more than 60,000 homes damaged, and more than 106,000 residents in a position that they applied for aid through the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
I think anybody who can see just the streets, much less the inside of the homes here, people s lives have been upended by this flood.
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest told CNN that $120 million in aid has already been approved.
But President Obama made it clear that the effort to fix the damage is only just beginning: Sometimes once the flood waters pass, people s attention spans pass.
This is not a one off.
This is not a photo-op issue.
This is how do you make sure that a month from now, three months from now, six months from now, people still are getting the help that they need.
I need all Americans to stay focused on this.
If you re watching this today, make sure that you find out how you can help.
You can go to volunteers.louisiana.gov, or you can go to fema.gov, or you can go to whitehouse.gov.
We ll tell you.
We ll direct you how you can help.
President Obama is correct.
A natural disaster, especially of this scale, is not an excuse to rush there for a photo op.
It s a reason for the community and the country to come together to fix things.
It s a time for the President to step up and focus on the long-term response rather than looking good for the media and it s especially not the time to pander to Donald Trump s wishes.Let s hope Trump learns something about acting presidential from this.
Watch the video below, and be sure to take the President s advice about helping:Featured image via screengrab