On Saturday night, during a speech to honor veterans in Washington, Donald Trump once again perfectly demonstrated what a petulant child he is and how little he cares about the people who sacrificed their lives for this country.Trump was speaking at the Celebrate Freedom Rally , where he should have been thanking and praising the veterans in attendance.
Instead, he completely derailed and went off on one of his characteristically self-centered rants, proving that he is incapable of acting presidential and focusing on anything but himself for more than a few minutes.While some might hope that Trump chose to stop honoring veterans to make an important announcement, most Americans know that wasn t what happened.
Instead, Trump stopped his speech to rant about the fake media and bragged about how he d won the election (conveniently leaving out the fact that he lost the popular vote by literally millions).No one understands how Trump went from commending veterans to talking about the media and his presidency, but here s his awful rant: We will not let them because the people know the truth.
The fake media tried to stop us from going to the White House but I m president and they re not.
The fact is the press has destroyed themselves because they went too far.
Instead of being subtle and smart, they used a hatchet.
And the people saw it right from the beginning.
The dishonest media will never keep us from accomplishing our objectives on behalf our great American people.
It will never happen.
Their agenda is not your agenda.
Considering that Trump had spent his entire Saturday attacking the press, from CNN to MSNBC, he clearly needed to get this out of his system and it was in extremely poor taste to do it at this event.
Trump s insensitivity, immaturity and self-centeredness continues to embarrass the country, and every American who supported Trump should be ashamed.
This is not how our veterans should be treated!You can watch Trump come unhinged below:Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images