While the other six world leaders at the G7 (Group of Seven) walked a short 700 yards through Taormina, Sicilly, Donald Trump, for whatever reason, rode a golf cart.
That and several other weird behaviors leave the country and the world wondering if Trump is physically prepared to be President.The Times of London reported the six other world leaders from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan walked 700 yards to take a group photo at a piazza in a hilltop town.
The U.S. leader decided to wait until he could get a golf cart.Trump was late for the photo, but joined the other world leaders during the walk down from the piazza.Source: The HillThe hits just keep on comin Leaders of France, Ger, Italy, Japan, Canada & UK walk the streets of Taormina.
Trump follows in a golf cart pic.twitter.com/MAEuwkY7ud Maggie Jordan: (@MaggieJordanACN) May 27, 2017It is possible that Trump simply didn t want to accompany the other world leaders, especially after he was the only one who wouldn t commit to the Paris climate change deal or because during his more than week away, he s proven himself to be a laughing stock and a buffoon.
It s also possible that Trump simply wasn t physically up to the walk.Trump began his trip by blaming gaffes on exhaustion.
He seemed to forget (or didn t know) that Israel was part of the Middle East.Oh man, watch Israeli ambassador Ron Dermer (on right couch) react when Trump says in Israel We just got back from the Middle East.
pic.twitter.com/x7nb4uvqpR (((Yair Rosenberg))) (@Yair_Rosenberg) May 22, 2017Then there was the time Trump wandered off the stage, apparently confused.he s just not there.
there s nothing going on in that head.
pic.twitter.com/dvUDznjvae Adam Parkhomenko (@AdamParkhomenko) May 26, 2017The social media world has noticed.The greatest risk to the Trump presidency is his health.
He may need a trainer and dietician more than a lawyer to review his tweets https://t.co/agsDralEuz Mark Cuban (@mcuban) May 27, 2017Confused, wandering off while in Israel.
Unable to stroll w/G7 leaders today.
Trump s 1st trip raising Qs about his mental & physical health The Daily Edge (@TheDailyEdge) May 27, 2017Some see something else going on:Donald Trump s sudden health problems on Saudi trip could be laying groundwork for resignation https://t.co/4B4ymvxpG1 pic.twitter.com/Za34HO9gEL McSpocky ??
(@mcspocky) May 25, 2017If you recall, during the election, Trump made a very big deal out of Hillary Clinton contracting pneumonia.
He accused her of lacking the stamina for the job, despite the fact that as Secretary of State she logged nearly 1,000,000 miles.
Trump, on the other hand, is used to golfing every weekend.We have never had a health assessment of Donald Trump, unless you count a bizarre letter that was read on Dr. Oz, which claimed he would be the healthiest president in history.
Featured image via Sean Gallup/Getty Images