Want to take part in an opinion poll on the presidential election, but the pollsters never call you?
There s an app for that.
It s called Zip, and its developer claims its data is more accurate than that of any poll because it s not a poll, it s a conversation.
It s also 100 percent anonymous so people feel more like telling the truth.Zip has Trump leading 64 percent to Hillary s 36 percent.
Most of the traditional polls have Hillary leading Trump by anywhere from four to ten points right now.
Why the difference?Ric Milliti, Zip s developer, says his app poses questions on a daily basis and then averages the answers of 100,000 users.
He believes that the nature of his app means he gets a far purer result than the traditional polls: We re not a poll.
We re a conversation, and 100% anonymous.
People feel comfortable answering questions without fear of being bullied or being called a racist.
People can express themselves safely, and you get a pure answer.
Look at some of the questions, though: New polls suggest Trump is getting crushed by Clinton.
Do they reflect how you are going to vote?
That s the question that puts Trump ahead of Hillary by a full 28 points.
California, who you voting for?
For this one, Trump got 55%, compared to 45% for Hillary (the latest poll from Public Policy Polling has Hillary leading Trump by 16 percent in that state).
What do you honestly think Trump meant by saying The 2nd amendment people can do something about Hillary?'
63 percent said Trump simply meant vote against her, while 37 percent said he meant, assassinate her.
This is only slightly more sophisticated than taking a poll from your own social media account.
Milliti knows very little about the people who are answering these questions, but thinks this is the wave of the future for accurate polling.According to an article on Windows Central, the results of all the polls that take place within the app may not be the most scientific.
Well, duh.
Milliti simply takes a cross-section of users by age, gender, and geographical location to get his results, which is nothing like enough to make a poll scientific.
That s something Milliti would know if he knew anything about polling.
He might be great at developing apps, but his skill ends there for right now.Despite that, Trump supporters will still glom onto this the way they re glomming onto a poll published by the Arizona Freedom Alliance that claims that its poll is far more accurate than the traditional polls.
After all, Trump has squillions of Twitter followers and draws thousands to his rallies, so there s no way he s actually trailing Hillary, right?The funny thing about the poll that the AFA republished, though, is that the pollsters merely called 1,000 people in each state, and never published their questions or the methodology they used to try and ensure they had representative samples of residents in each state.
They seem to think: It s 50,000 people, how can it possibly be less accurate than polls that only question 600 to 1,000 people?
Milliti insists that most media polls are wildly inaccurate, and his polls are not.
His polls, however, could easily be getting flooded with Trump fans who are desperate to see Trump ahead somewhere.
Whether Milliti himself is a Trump supporter or not, he clearly lives in the same bubble that everyone else who claims the scientific polls are dishonest and inaccurate live in.Photo of Donald Trump by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images.
Photo of Hillary Clinton by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.
Photos merged by Rika Christensen