Trump supporters just got screwed over in a YUUUGE way.Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump repeatedly promised his supporters that he would force Mexico to pay for an expensive wall along the southern border.The wall will cost an estimated $25 billion.
And guess what?
America is going to be paying for the entire thing.According to CNN, Trump and his team are planning to crawl to the Republican-controlled Congress to ask them to pay for it with money from taxpayers.President-elect Donald Trump s transition team has signaled to congressional Republican leaders that the President-elect s preference is to fund the border wall through the appropriations process as soon as April, according to House Republican officials.
The Trump team argues it will have the authority through a Bush-era 2006 law to build the wall, lawmakers say, but it lacks the money to do so.
Transition officials have told House GOP leaders in private meetings they d like to pay for the wall in the funding bill, a senior House GOP source said.
We want President Trump to have all the tools he needs to build the wall, Louisiana GOP Rep. Steve Scalise said.
We re in talks with him on the details of it as they re still putting together their team.
We still got a few months before there s another funding bill that s going to move.
We re going to work with him to make sure we can get it done.
We want to build a wall.
He wants to build a wall.
In other words, Trump lied to his supporters when he said Mexico would be funding the wall, something he insisted upon because the American people would never have accepted having to pay for such an expensive venture themselves.After all, it s a waste of government funds that could be used to help pay for healthcare or other things America needs more than a wall that won t keep immigrants out.And this isn t the first time Trump slipped up on this issue.Last year, Trump made remarks about his immigration plan in which he said that America would pay for the construction of the wall before quickly adding that Mexico will be reimbursing America for the cost.
The End Illegal Immigration act fully funds the construction of a wall on our southern border, Trump said.
Don t worry about it.
Remember I said that Mexico is paying for the wall.
With the full understanding that the country of Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such a wall, okay?
So, Donald Trump is actually making the American people pay for his costly wall.
The rhetoric about making Mexico pay for it was just a lie designed to fool his supporters.
They got duped because it will be their own tax dollars paying for it.
And Republicans are going to just give him the money when he asks for it.Featured Image: Zach Gibson/Getty Images