Donald Trump just can t seem to make up his mind about abortion laws, but his latest stance is going to make pro-life Republicans really angry.In the last week, the Republican frontrunner s opinion about abortion laws have changed more times than I have changed my clothes.
On Wednesday, during a town hall discussion with MSNBC s Chris Matthews, Trump told the host that he believes the Roe v. Wade should be overturned and abortion should be banned.
When the medical procedure is banned he said that women who get an abortion should be punished.
It all went downhill from there.Shortly before the interview was set to air, Trump said the abortion issue should be left to the states.
When he realized that people were still pretty pissed off, he said that he meant women who have abortions are victims and if he has his way he will punish the doctors who perform them.
But now, he is once again changing his tune and is going full-on pro-choice liberal.During an interview with CBS John Dickerson (set to air Sunday) Trump was asked about his position on abortion laws and he responded: I would ve preferred states rights, he added.
I think it would ve been better if it were up to the states.
But right now, the laws are set .At this moment, the laws are set.
And I think we have to leave it that way.
Dickerson was clearly surprised by his obvious liberal position and asked, Do you think abortion is murder?
Trump replied: I have my opinions on it, but I d rather not comment on it.
Right now, the current laws make abortion 100 percent legal and he is saying that he does not believe they should be changed.
That means that he is not pro-life, but instead pro-choice.
Which, by the way, is the position he always had until he realized that he could appeal to America s ignorant imbeciles and changed his long-held position.After this clip from the Face The Nation interview was aired and the media reacted, Trump s campaign once again scrambled to clarify his statement, saying: Mr. Trump gave an accurate account of the law as it is today and made clear it must stay that way now until he is President.
Then he will change the law through his judicial appointments and allow the states to protect the unborn.
There is nothing new or different here.
That s actually not what he said at all, but it s funny that they are trying to spin it again.Watch the clip below:Featured image via Tom Pennington/Getty Images