It s getting to the point that as frightening as the premise is of a Donald Trump presidency is, the movement he has created has a life of its own and it s beyond frightening.
Many are armed, dangerous and itching for a Civil War, no matter how the election turns out.One such supporter attended a rally of Trump s running mate, Mike Pence, on Tuesday in Albuquerque, N.M.
The woman, who is identified only as Brenda, really, really wants Trump to win and if he doesn t, she says there will be Second Amendment remedies.
There will also be Second Amendment remedies if Trump doesn t win, because apparently Obama will declare martial law.
If Hillary Clinton wins the election and she s on that Second Amendment, taking your guns away, there is going to be a civil war in this state or elsewhere in the country, the woman who identified herself as Brenda predicted, to some applause in Albuquerque, N.M.
But, if President Trump would win, the woman continued, to hollers from the crowd, there s also going to be a war, because Obama is going to pull that martial law on the United States.
Source: The HillPence tried to reassure Brenda that Clinton won t win, but he did nothing to tamp down the threat of violence, and why would he?
That would be off message.
Trump might not be overtly calling for violence, but when he suggests that Second Amendment people can do something about Hillary Clinton, well, all it takes is one wrong person to read into that message.Trump s other message is more subtle, but possibly even more dangerous.
At this point, Trump pretty much knows he s about to lose the election and he s setting himself up with a basket of excuses none of which blame him or his campaign.
Trump s portrayal of all his detractors, including Clinton voters, is that they are cheating.
He told a crowd in Pennsylvania that the only way he could lose there is if there s cheating.
Trump is currently losing Pennsylvania by seven points.Facts don t matter to Trump voters.
They are convinced that Trump is some sort of messiah and that if people don t get that, they deserve to be punished.
If the nation doesn t vote for Trump, you can guarantee that at least some of his armed followers will cry foul.
Whether Trump wins or loses, it won t be pretty.Featured image via Spencer Platt at Getty Images.