While pundits have been busily dissecting exactly what went wrong for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election, it s becoming increasingly clear that in our post-fact world, it was lies, propaganda and the unwillingness of the mainstream media to point out the difference that propelled Donald Trump toward the presidency.The Atlantic spoke to people in Elkhart, Indiana, which has boomed since Obama took office in 2009.
Unfortunately, residents of Elkhart seem not to know it, and neither do most Trump voters.
Despite the fact that the U.S. economy has been on a constant trajectory of growth, almost since the day President Barack Obama took office, the vast majority of Republicans thought the economy has been horrible under Obama.
Who can blame them?
That s all Donald Trump and Fox News have been saying.
The funny thing is, though, that immediately after the election, nearly half of Republicans thought the economy was getting better.In Elkhart, even the people who would acknowledge that things are getting better for them refuse to give Obama credit for it.
They do seem willing to give Trump credit, though, despite the fact that he s done nothing yet.
These two paragraphs from the article are going viral and they offer a big glimpse into the minds of Trump supporters:Andi Ermes, 39, offered a number of reasons for disliking Obama.
She said Obama didn t attend the Army-Navy football game, even though other presidents had.
Obama has actually attended more Army-Navy games than George H.W.
Bush.
She said that he had taken too many vacations.
He has taken fewer vacation days that George W. Bush.
She also said that he refused to wear a flag pin on his lapel.
While it is true that Obama did not wear a flag on his lapel at points during the 2007 campaign, it was back on his suit by 2008.
Ermes told me the news sources she consumes most are Fox News, Rush Limbaugh, and a local conservative radio show hosted by Casey Hendrickson.Perhaps unsurprisingly, Ermes sees the biggest signs for hope in the economy in Carrier deal struck by Donald Trump, which will keep 1,000 jobs in the U.S.
He s not even president yet and already he s helping the economy, she said.Of course, the Carrier deal was just another Trump lie.
Far fewer than the originally touted 1,000 jobs were saved in the Carrier deal, which was just a tax break.
President Obama, on the other hand, saved 1.2 million jobs with very little fanfare.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.