While Donald Trump is undeniably very wealthy, but he was apparently never taught the responsibilities that go with wealth to give back to the community.
First, we learn that Trump gives virtually none of his own money to charity, then we learn that 4money tagged for veterans never got there.
Now, we re learning that he s ripping charities off with his vodka.The very fact that Trump is marketing vodka under his name shows a serious lack of conviction and character.
He doesn t drink and his brother died from what Trump attributes to alcohol.
I sort of hated doing it, Trump said at the time of his vodka-licensing deal.
My brother, Fred, who was the best, ended up being an alcoholic.
And I learned a lot about alcohol and alcoholism from Fred.
Source: Huffington PostSo, Trump said he d give the money, all the money, to Mothers Against Drunk Driving.
I m going to give 100 percent of that money to them in honor of my late brother, Fred Trump, Trump wrote in December 2005.
I guarantee you that Fred is looking down now and saying, That s really the best thing to do.
Mothers Against Drunk Driving didn t receive the money.
To be fair, Trump said they refused it because the money would have been ill gotten gains, at least from their perspective.
They didn t want to profit from the sale of alcohol.Still, Trump has a terrible charitable record.
During the last two decades, Trump, the alleged billionaire, has given only $3.7 million to charity.
He s not even the largest contributor to his very own foundation.
That s the World Wrestling Foundation.
Even evil Leona Hensley was more charitable than Trump.As for Trump Vodka, that s no more.
The company, like so many of Trump s companies, went belly up and the distillery moved to (surprise) Mexico.Is this the most pressing issue facing Trump s campaign?
Perhaps not, but it could help wake people up to the fact that he is no more than an every day conman.
He has no intention of living up to any of his shallow promises.Featured image via John Moore at Getty Images