Clearly, Fox host Bill O Reilly wasn t paying attention over the last eight years.Because if he had been paying attention, he would know that conservatives sought to delegitimize President Obama repeatedly.The principle claim, of course, was that President Obama was not born in the United States, a conspiracy theory that Donald Trump adopted for his own gain and continued to repeat during the campaign.
Republicans in Congress also repeatedly attempted to sabotage the country in order to make Obama a one-term president and even after winning a second term Republicans continued to refuse to work with him.In fact, Republicans went so far as to pledge allegiance to foreign leaders like Vladimir Putin and Benjamin Netanyahu rather than acknowledge Obama as their president.Republican racism and hatred toward President Obama divided America for eight years, yet conservatives like O Reilly have the gall to blame him for it.
And now he is accusing those who oppose Donald Trump of sedition.During an interview with a very unfunny Dennis Miller, who claims to be a comedian, O Reilly asked if he believes the effort in opposition to Trump is anti-American.
Do you believe that this whole movement to delegitimize Donald Trump is anti-American?
O Reilly asked.
Would you say it s that bad?
Miller cracked another pathetic joke that not even O Reilly could laugh at and O Reilly continued by going a step further.
These people want to delegitimize the whole election, the whole presidency, and I think it borders on sedition, he said.Miller then blamed President Obama for how divided the country has become even though Republicans were the ones who divided it in the first place and Trump continued to divide it on the campaign trail.Here s the video via YouTube.Bill O Reilly, like most conservatives, are hypocrites.
Over the last eight years, they desperately tried to convince the American people that President Obama was illegitimate in order to sabotage his presidency and I don t remember O Reilly throwing out words like sedition to describe that un-American effort.The fact is that Trump lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes, and his electoral win is one of the smallest on record.
Furthermore, the Russians helped Trump by launching cyber attacks against our country and spreading propaganda.
And Trump has done nothing but suck up to Putin, proving that he ll be a Russian puppet instead of the American president.
But you ll only hear O Reilly whine about how people aren t lining up to kiss Trump s ass.
Well, he better buckle up because turnabout is fair play because if anyone is a true illegitimate president it s Donald Trump.
And unlike the birther conspiracy, there is plenty of proof backed up by the intelligence community.Featured Image: Screenshot