Speculation has been mounting recently that Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton will choose Senator Elizabeth Warren as her running mate.Some Democrats have been weary on the idea, seeing it as weakening the Democrat s chances of taking back the Senate in November (Massachusetts has a Republican governor).For a while, such a move was up in the air.
But a recent report from the Boston Globe shows that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has been reviewing the Massachusetts rules for filling a U.S. Senate vacancy:Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid has been actively reviewing Massachusetts rules for filling a US Senate vacancy, another indication of the seriousness with which Democrats are gaming out the possibility of Elizabeth Warren joining likely presidential nominee Hillary Clinton s ticket.The upshot of Reid s review is that Senate Democrats may have found an avenue to block or at least narrow GOP Governor Charlie Baker s ability to name a temporary replacement and prevent the Senate from flipping to a Democratic majority if Warren were to leave the chamber.
That suggests the issue is not as significant an obstacle as Reid previously feared.A source close with Reid told the Globe that he is researching all avenues to keep Warren s name alive and well in the hunt for a highly anticipated vice presidential slot that will come within the next several months.
Reid s actions also come as a surprise to the Democratic circles, as he just recently went on the record saying he does not think the former Secretary should pick a candidate from a state with a Republican governor.
As the Globe notes:In the event of a Senate or House vacancy, Massachusetts currently requires a special election to be held within 145 to 160 days.
In the interim, the governor has the authority to appoint a successor.
But Reid s team has identified a portion of the law that allows an officeholder to start the special election clock by filing a resignation letter, but also announcing an intention to vacate the seat at a later date.In theory, Warren could file such a letter 145 days before the Jan. 20, 2017 inauguration and successfully block Baker from picking any temporary replacement.But should she do that, run as a V.P.
candidate with Clinton and lose, Warren would have to run for election in that vacant seat.Given her immense popularity in the state, such a feat wouldn t be too hard for the liberal firebrand.
Not surprisingly, Warren s office has not commented on the vice presidential speculations.The best thing to happen to the Democratic Party would be to have Elizabeth Warren on the White House ticket.
She s already proven she can get under Donald Trump s skin, and she has already proven that she knows the issues and how to solve America s problems.
Who better to help take on the sexist fraud that is Donald Trump.
The Democrats would be electrified like they were in 2008 with Warren on the ticket.
Democrats shouldn t waste this opportunity (unless Warren is adamant she doesn t want the job).Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images