Michele Bachmann is a special snowflake.
If there is anyone who is crazier than Sarah Palin and Donald Trump, it is definitely her.
Last week we learned that the former congresswoman is one of the people advising Trump on foreign policy because she knows soooo much about foreigners and stuff.
She s an expert, she can see ISIS from her house .in Minnesota!Now this week we are learning the real reason good ol Michele thinks the billionaire was chosen as the GOP nominee.
During an interview on the Christian Broadcasting Network s show The Brody File she said: I actually supported Ted Cruz.
I thought he was fabulous but I also see that at the end of the day God raised up, I believe, Donald Trump who was going to be the nominee in this election.
I don t think God sits things out.
He s a sovereign God.
Donald Trump became our nominee.I think it s very likely that in the day that we live in, that Donald Trump is the only individual who could win in a General Election of the 17 who ran.
Maybe I m wrong, I don t know but I do know that the Bible is true and that Daniel teaches the most high God, which is one of God s names, is the one who lifts up who he will and takes down who he will.
OBVIOUSLY, the real reason Trump is trumping all over the place is because he is the chosen one.
Why didn t we think of that?
Hmmmmm .maybe because it is a batshit crazy way of thinking?
Yep, that s it!As Wonkette (if you don t know who Wonkette is we highly recommend you check them out) points out, it is incredibly unlikely that Bachmann believes Obama is president because God raised up and had him elected; after all, the GOP seems to believe that God only works for them.Michele clearly doesn t want to admit that the only reason Trump is the nominee is because he was the most racist of all of the candidates and the GOP base LOVES racists.
They wanted a candidate who represented their beliefs that the blacks should still be drinking out of different water fountains and the Hispanics should pick vegetables and shut up.
It had nothing to do with God and everything to do with the disgusting rhetoric that his infected the minds of Republican voters.Featured image via T.J. Kirkpatrick/Getty Images