What s gotten into John Boehner?
He gave a strange interview to left-leaning Politico and unloaded on former colleagues.
During the interview he claimed he held no grudges against his former colleagues yet he called a few of them a holes .
Was he drunk?
He also got into it on twitter with Sean Hannity and Hannity shot back questioning whether Boehner had been drinking Perhaps Hannity is on to something.John were you sober when you said this?
That conversation never happened.
I m sorry you are bitter and u failed!
https://t.co/SLquw7rXZv Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) October 30, 2017Boehner gave a lengthy interview and even went after other conservative talk radio hosts: I always liked Rush.
When I went to Palm Beach, I would always meet with Rush and we d go play golf.
But you know, who was that right-wing guy, Levin?
He went really crazy right and got a big audience, and he dragged Hannity to the dark side.
He dragged Rush to the dark side.
And these guys I used to talk to them all the time.
And suddenly they re beating the living s out of me.
TRUE COLORS?Why is John Boehner suddenly attacking his fellow Republicans?
Jordan is a valued member of Congress and isn t a RINO so maybe Boehner has it out for him.Former Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) said in a new profile from Politico on Sunday that Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) and former Rep. Jason Chaffetz(R-Utah) are a holes.
The former speaker made the comment while discussing Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) likely becoming the chair of the House Oversight Committee, a position Gowdy eventually earned.Chaffetz, the previous chair, had recently announced his resignation from Congress at the time of the interview.
Jordan, who was also on the committee, was reportedly considering going out for the chairmanship.
Gowdy that s my guy, even though he doesn t know how to dress, John Boehner told Politico.
F Jordan.
F Chaffetz.
They re both a holes.
Boehner also called Chaffetz a total phony who was obsessed with promoting himself while in Congress.
With Chaffetz it s always about Chaffetz, Boehner told Politico.Chaffetz resigned from Congress in June and joined Fox News as a contributor.Boehner also criticized Jordan, who helped found the House s Freedom Caucus, which was part of the movement to push Boehner out as speaker: Jordan was a terrorist as a legislator going back to his days in the Ohio House and Senate, Boehner told Politico.
A terrorist.
A legislative terrorist.
Last July, Boehner also spoke out against Jordan:Former House Speaker John Boehner assailed GOP House arch conservatives led by Rep. Jim Jordan as the knucklehead caucus, calling them anarchists who are for nothing.
In a speech from a private gathering in Las Vegas casino/resort, the West Chester Republican took aim at the conservatives who pushed him from office at the end of 2015.
Among those was Jordan, R-Urbana, who revolted against Boehner, even though he was the first speaker from Ohio since Republican Nicholas Longworth in 1931.Boehner was asked to explain why House Republicans did not support House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., to succeed Boehner as speaker.
The knucklehead caucus decided they weren t going to vote for him, Boehner said.
Now these are the guys in the Republican Party you could call right of right.
They are anarachists.
They re for nothing.
The video of Boehner was obtained by The Washington Post.
Although he did not mention Jordan by name, it was clear Boehner was referring to him.Read more: The Hill