Donald Trump pissed off The New York Times, and that mistake bit him on the ass.On Tuesday morning, Trump attacked the newspaper by once again falsely referring to it as failing and posting a link to an opinion piece written by a person who canceled his subscription because he s a snowflake who couldn t handle the honest coverage of Trump.The failing @NYTimes would do much better if they were honest!
https://t.co/ATy8R3knS2 Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2017Trump continued his tirade against the Times on Wednesday morning by once again referring to the newspaper as failing and then falsely claimed that the paper apologized to subscribers.Remember when the failing @nytimes apologized to its subscribers, right after the election, because their coverage was so wrong.
Now worse!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2017Trump then whined about how his administration is covered by the media.
You know, because the truth hurts.If the people of our great country could only see how viciously and inaccurately my administration is covered by certain media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2017Trump was likely referring to a letter addressed to subscribers written by publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr., who acknowledged that the newspaper had underestimated Trump and the amount of support he had among conservatives.Of course, it wasn t just The New York Times that got it wrong.
Multiple news outlets across the media got it wrong.
Then again, maybe they were right.
We ll just never know since Russia interfered in the election on Trump s behalf and FBI Director James Comey dropped an October surprise on Hillary Clinton that damaged her campaign despite the new evidence being worthless.
After all, Trump lost the popular vote by three million votes and squeaked out one of the narrowest Electoral College wins in American history.Anyway, nowhere in the letter did Sulzberger apologize for the coverage Times reporters and journalist provided on the election and Trump s budding scandals.That s why The New York Times fired back at Trump two hours after his tweet on Wednesday morning to slam him for lying..@realdonaldtrump False, we did not apologize.
We stand by our coverage & thank our millions of subscribers for supporting our journalism.
NYTCo Communications (@NYTimesComm) March 29, 2017In fact, The New York Times has enjoyed a surge in subscriptions ever since Election Day, with more than 170,000 new signups in just a single month.Now that Trump has taken over the White House, The New York Times continues to enjoy the surge of more readers subscribing to get the news Donald Trump desperately does not want them to read.The New York Times has been digging deep into Trump s Russia scandal over the last few months and the reports have been damning.
So next time Trump bitches about the New York Times, just know that it s because they are telling the truth about him.Featured Image: David Becker/Getty Images