The Islamic State terrorist group, also known as ISIS, is beginning to admit that the military strategy authorized by President Obama and executed by the United States and its international allies is destroying its grip on the Middle East.The admission is a validation of the President s strategy, which has faced never-ending criticism from the Republican Party and the conservative movement.ISIS has declared for years a caliphate, or a sphere of influence and control across several countries including Syria and Iraq, with the eventual goal of a worldwide caliphate.
But now, after U.S.-led bombing runs, drone strikes, and engagement on the ground by forces trained and armed by America and its allies, the caliphate is weakening.In public messages and in recent actions in Syria, the group s leaders are acknowledging the terrorist organization s declining fortunes on the battlefield while bracing for the possibility that its remaining strongholds could fall.While the death tolls are horrific and the loss of human life unacceptable, recent suicide bombings from those associated with ISIS are more evidence that it is losing in the territory it gained.At the same time, the group is vowing to press on with its recent campaign of violence, even if the terrorists themselves are driven underground.
U.S. counterterrorism experts believe the mass- casualty attacks in Istanbul and Baghdad in the past month were largely a response to military reversals in Iraq and Syria.In 2014, under President Obama s orders, the United States launched Operation: Inherent Resolve.
In a release announcing the operation, U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) explained the operation was in place to reflect the unwavering resolve and deep commitment of the U.S. and partner nations in the region and around the globe to eliminate the terrorist group ISIL and the threat they pose to Iraq, the region and the wider international community.
Since then, American-led fighter jet missions have been operating in Iraq and Syria to eliminate the ISIS threat, even as conservatives, Republicans, and their presidential candidates like Donald Trump continued to attack Obama as weak on terrorism.According to the Department of Defense, as of July 12, the coalition has flown 13,803 airstrikes in Iraq and Syria against ISIS targets.
Of those, 10,577 airstrikes were executed by American fighter pilots.The Department also reports as of May this year Operation Inherent Resolve had destroyed or damaged 26,374 target under ISIS control.
This includes 143 tanks, 6,545 buildings, and 1,620 parts of the oil infrastructure that ISIS has been using to finance their missions.The conflict isn t over, but ISIS is not expanding.
It s getting smaller.Featured image via Flickr