The American taxpayer is on the hook for the millions and millions it costs to house and feed these kids.
Record numbers came here with over 10,000 in October and November.
This is unbelievable!
You can blame the Obama policy for this:PLEASE WATCH THIS SHOCKING VIDEO: OBAMA POLICY PAYING MILLIONS TO TAKE IN ILLEGALS:WFAA found this:As the newest surge of refugee South American children begins arriving soon in North Texas, everything from food to clothing, counseling and medical services will be provided by the nonprofit group BCFS.
But, records show, taxpayers will be footing the bill.Long before the buses of workers who will care for immigrant children rolled into North Texas today, San Antonio-based BCFS was tapped by the Obama administration to provide temporary shelters in North Texas at taxpayer expense.
How much is this going to cost?
Neither BCFS nor the U.S. Health and Human Services department could say today.But, an online database search of federal contracts and grants shows that there was a spike in payments to the group coinciding with last year s surge of unaccompanied minors.According to USAspending.gov, BCFS received $296 million to administer the government s Unaccompanied Alien Children Program nationwide over the past three fiscal years.
The costs for temporary shelter operations, medical care, security, room and board are requested, vetted, proposed and authorized for by the federal government, said Krista Piferrer, BCFS spokeswoman.
All expenses are based on cost-reimbursement, which means funds are drawn down only when goods/services are requested and expended.
What the records don t show is exactly what the money bought, or where it was spent.We do know one area where BCFS has spent dollars, though.According to the Center for Responsive Politics, BCFS, which used to be called Baptist Child & Family Services, has spent $210,000 on lobbying lawmakers since 2006.RECORD NUMBER OF ILLEGAL MINORS IN OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER OF 2015: The Department of Homeland Security has told Congress that for the past six years it has deported just six percent of youths who entered the country illegally, an enormous policy failure that illegal immigrants are seizing on to encourage friends and relatives to raid the border.Getting into the United States is so easy, and staying here a cinch, that illegals are even telling U.S. Border Patrol officials that they know they will be freed and are using social media to send home photos of their permisos, documents that set them free.
Border Patrol agents have confirmed that the new arrivals are saying that they know they will be released after they are processed, said Jessica M. Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies.
They have heard this from family and friends who have gone before and shared their experience.
They use social media to communicate this, sometimes even texting pictures of what they call their permiso, which is the document they get showing them to appear for a court date years in the future, she told Secrets.According to a Congress report, DHS told the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee that since 2009, it has apprehended some 122,700 unaccompanied children from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
But it has only repatriated about 7,700, or 6 percent.When added to the administration s practice of releasing most illegal minors who promise to eventually show up at an immigration court hearing and a judge s order to close some detention centers, those looking to flee troubled Latin countries believe that once they get across the border that they are home free, said a report on the issue from the Senate Homeland panel headed by Wisconsin Sen. Ron Johnson.A new surge of crossings by minors on the border appear to prove that out, according to Vaughan.When asked about a new report on the surge and what was fueling it, she said, I believe that part of the reason for the new surge is that the smugglers now can assure their potential customers that they will no longer face a possibility of extended detention after being processed by the Border Patrol, because a federal judge has ordered DHS to close the family and child detention centers.
Vaughan, the Center s director of policy studies, said that Border Patrol agents have revealed that new arrivals know they will be released once processed and use social media to spread the word in Latin America.Via: WE