Of course, Black Caucus member and loudmouth activist, Rep. Cummings would be the first to let everyone know how outraged he was if this what a white congressman A Lyft car adorned with congressional plates that went viral on social media belongs to Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.
), The Washington Post reported Tuesday.A photo submitted to local Washington, D.C., blog Popville last week depicted a black Honda with a pink Lyft driver sticker on its window shield and the words Maryland U.S. Congress 7-A on its license plates.Cummings told The Washington Post that his daughter who just graduated from Howard University has been using the car to drive for Lyft and earn extra income.
In an effort to earn some extra money to pay her expenses at school, she signed up for a part-time position with one of the ride-sharing companies, Cummings said.
They, in turn, gave her a sticker to apply to the windshield of the car.
Cummings added that he has asked his daughter to remove the congressional plates, which afford special parking privileges for members and staffers.Allen B.
West Elected to the House in 1996, Cummings is coming up on his 20th year representing Maryland s 7th congressional district which includes over half of Baltimore City and most of Howard County.
His district contains some of Maryland s most black precincts, precincts in which statistics for crime and incarceration, homelessness, economic development, school drop-out, unemployment, drug conviction and out-of-wedlock birth rates all are consistently worse than both state and federal levels for all those same statistical categories.Yet despite these facts, Cummings believes its time for EVERYBODY ELSE to realize that black lives matter.In a piece published on afro.com Cummings laid out his plan new plan, Enacting Black Lives Matter into law , stating [in part]: America is at an historic crossroads.
Either we will move forward in 2016 with public policies that support greater opportunity for everyone or we will continue to sink deeper into economic inequality, injustice and violence.
These are the stakes in our current political struggles and this is why black lives should matter for everyone.
It s not the first time congressional cars have come under the spotlight.
Roll Call s video of Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) performing a botched park job outside the Capitol went viral last year.
Via: The Hill