Our full report on the horrible shooting of Rep. Steve Scalise is below these hate-filled comments from the left.
We wanted you to see that the left wasted no time in continuing the rhetoric:Soon after Congressman Steve Scalise was shot by a crazed shooter, the left wasted no time with their hate-filled comments:Restless News published a meme saying the shooting was karma:A twitter user named Charles Barkley (not the real Charles Barkley): Well that KKK f*cker deserved it The left took on gun control mentioning Sandy Hook:Some on the left even brought up Obamacare: Rep. Steve Scalise was shot Wednesday morning in Alexandria, Virginia, in a deliberate attack.
A congressional staffer was also shot.
Scalise is in surgery right now and is expected to recover.Rand Paul said Scalise being there likely saved everyone because his presence (he s leadership) meant Capitol Police were there.Scalise, a member of the House Republican leadership as the majority whip, appeared to have been shot in the hip and it appeared two Capitol Hill police agents were shot, according to Rep. Mo Brooks who was on deck when the shooting occurred.
The shooting took place at a practice for the GOP congressional baseball team.NBC News Special Report: Congressman Scalise, aides shot at baseball practice in Virginia https://t.co/KD9i1iP9MZ Jason Calabretta (@JasonCalabretta) June 14, 2017In a statement, Texas Rep. Roger Williams, one of the team s coaches, said one of his staff members was shot during the incident and is receiving medical attention.
There was no information on the staffer s injuries.According to both congressional and law enforcement sources, the shooting appears to be a deliberate attack.
Two law enforcement sources say the suspect is in police custody, has been taken to a hospital.Lawmakers who spoke at the scene to reporters described a normal morning practice, at a field where they ve practiced for years, when all of a sudden shots rang out.
Lawmakers, staff members and even the young son of one of the members ran for cover, jumping into dugouts and over fences to avoid the gunshots.Members described Scalise dragging himself roughly 15 yards away from second base, where he had been playing, and lying there until the shooter was neutralized, at which point some of them ran to assist him and apply pressure to the wound until he could be evacuated.
Once they were able, Sen. Jeff Flake said he and Rep. Brad Wenstrup, who is a physician, went out to where Scalise was lying to apply pressure to the wound.
Scalise was coherent the whole time, Flake said.Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul told CNN it would have been a massacre without Capitol Hill Police.