While we believe the UN headquarters would make a great condo building (please see Krauthammer video below), this is a start.
The Trump administration just decided to significantly reduce the UN budget.
Amabassador Nikki Haley released a statement:Ambassador Haley on the United States Negotiating a Significant Reduction in the UN BudgetFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEToday, the United Nations agreed on a budget for the 2018-2019 fiscal year.
Among a host of other successes, the United States negotiated a reduction of over $285 million off the 2016-2017 final budget.
In addition to these significant cost savings, we reduced the UN s bloated management and support functions, bolstered support for key U.S. priorities throughout the world, and instilled more discipline and accountability throughout the UN system.
The inefficiency and overspending of the United Nations are well known.
We will no longer let the generosity of the American people be taken advantage of or remain unchecked.
This historic reduction in spending in addition to many other moves toward a more efficient and accountable UN is a big step in the right direction.
While we are pleased with the results of this year s budget negotiations, you can be sure we ll continue to look at ways to increase the UN s efficiency while protecting our interests, said Ambassador Haley.THE UNITED STATES CARRIES THE BURDEN OF THE UN BUDGET:MAGA!
Defund the UN!PRESIDENT TRUMP THREATENED TO CUT AID HE S FOLLOWING THROUGH ON HIS PROMISE:Reuters reported:U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that vote in favor of a draft United Nations resolution calling for the United States to withdraw its decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel s capital.
They take hundreds of millions of dollars and even billions of dollars, and then they vote against us.
Well, we re watching those votes.
Let them vote against us.
We ll save a lot.
We don t care, Trump told reporters at the White House.CHARLES KRAUTHAMMER: Trump should turn the United Nations building into condos :