During a segment on ABC s This Week, Bernie Sanders hammered Donald Trump for talking about Bill Clinton s sex life rather than the real issues that the United States should be focusing on.The show s host, Martha Raddatz, brought the subject up, asking Sanders if he thought that Bill Clinton s sex life should be considered fair game during the election.
: Donald Trump and Washington Post columnist Ruth Marcus think Bill Clinton s sexual history is fair game.
Do you?
No, I don t, Sanders replied, and then continued: I think, you know, we have enormous problems facing this country and I think we got more things to worry about than Bill Clinton s sexual life.
I think interestingly enough, maybe Donald Trump might want to focus attention on climate change, understand that climate change is not a hoax, as he believes that it is, that maybe Donald Trump should understand that we should raise the minimum wage in this country, which he opposes, and maybe we should not be giving huge tax breaks to fellow billionaires like Donald Trump.
So I think maybe he should focus on those things, Sanders concluded.Sanders made a similar critique of Trump last week.
Sanders claimed that he could win over Trump supporters.
That claim must have scared the hell out of Trump.
In less than 24 hours, Trump responded to Bernie Sanders, saying that he is in support of raising wages.
That s a complete flip from Trump s earlier claims that wages in the United States are too high.
Of course, Trump called him a liar and acted like a complete douche bag about the whole thing.
Trump still insists that he doesn t think that the minimum wage should be raised, but statements he made in Politico show that he is playing defense on the issue.Bernie Sanders got the Republican presidential primary runner to flip his script and adopt a more progressive message on a major issue.
So who knows, maybe sometime this week Trump will go all in on the importance of fighting climate change?
Sanders has become a force to be reckoned with because of his unrelenting commitment to his platform.
A platform that even the Republican primary front runner is beginning to co-opt.You can watch the segment below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eCkSFlxJFMYFeatured Image Credit: Screenshot via YouTube