We already knew that Russia wanted Donald Trump to be president and interfered with the election, but new information has just been revealed showing that not only was the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) aware of this, but they were in the know as early as August of 2016.
That s well before anything was revealed to the public.According to the New York Times: The C.I.A.
told senior lawmakers in classified briefings last summer that it had information indicating that Russia was working to help elect Donald J. Trump president, a finding that did not emerge publicly until after Mr. Trump s victory months later, former government officials say.
Further: The former officials said that in late August 10 weeks before the election John O. Brennan, then the C.I.A.
director, was so concerned about increasing evidence of Russia s election meddling that he began a series of urgent, individual briefings for eight top members of Congress, some of them on secure phone lines while they were on their summer break.It is unclear what new intelligence might have prompted the classified briefings.
But with concerns growing both internally and publicly at the time about a significant Russian breach of the Democratic National Committee, the C.I.A.
began seeing signs of possible connections to the Trump campaign, the officials said.
By the final weeks of the campaign, Congress and the intelligence agencies were racing to understand the scope of the Russia threat.
Then there s this: The officials said Mr. Brennan also indicated that unnamed advisers to Mr. Trump might be working with the Russians to interfere in the election.
So, not only did Russia work to get Trump elected, but those closely connected to Trump may have been working directly with Russia.Here s the thing if this information was available before the election, and it was well known that not only was Russia trying to influence the election, but Trump advisers may have been talking directly to Russia, why was the election allowed to even go forward?
For all intents and purposes, the election should be considered absolutely illegitimate and a new election should be held in light of all this new information.Our democracy and the core of everything we are as a republic has been compromised by a foreign adversary, and NOTHING has been done.
This is NOT okay.The public had a right to know this information going into the voting booth, and nothing was said.
This is beyond maddening, and someone needs to be held responsible.Featured Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images