Fox & Friends continues to embarrass themselves in defense of Donald Trump, and CNN host Jake Tapper took them to task for it.On Monday, FBI Director James Comey testified under oath on Capitol Hill that Trump s accusation that President Obama wiretapped him is totally false and that Trump is under investigation for colluding with Russia during the 2016 Election.Trump s credibility was completely destroyed and his Russia scandal only deepened.But Fox & Friends downplayed Comey s damning testimony by claiming that Americans didn t miss much and posted a video on Twitter featuring 25 seconds of footage of Comey telling lawmakers that he can t answer their question.
The footage included absolutely no context and completely left out Comey s confirmation that Trump slandered President Obama and his confirmation that Trump is being investigated by the FBI.If you missed yesterday s congressional hearing with FBI Dir.
James Comey, you didn t miss much pic.twitter.com/AnJdtWcGxK FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) March 21, 2017CNN anchor Jake Tapper was not amused and soon responded by informing Fox News that Comey s testimony was quite consequential.
False.
Quite consequential.
FBI confirmed it is investigating whether Trump campaign coordinated with Russia.
https://t.co/ROcDGl4weP Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) March 21, 2017Other Twitter users also barraged Fox & Friends with sharp criticism for ignoring the bombshell testimony.
@foxandfriends Pretty sure he answered a couple of important questions.
You can bury the lede deep, but we ll still find it.
Tick, tock.
Mike Mass (@mikemasse) March 21, 2017@foxandfriends Maybe you missed it, but we didn t. Maria Langer ?
(@mlanger) March 21, 2017MT @foxandfriends If you missed yesterday s Fox & Friends, you didn t miss much pic.twitter.com/Nhd7DyAWzo Stephen Miller (@redsteeze) March 21, 2017.
@foxandfriends except for that little part where they re investigating the Trump campaign for collusion with Russia which would be treason Victor Huckabee (@popesaintvictor) March 21, 2017@foxandfriends This is pathetic, even for you.
Seth Grahame-Smith (@sethgs) March 21, 2017@foxandfriends I see we ve reached the rimming period of your ass kissing.
Brian Scully (@brianscully) March 21, 2017After being called a partisan correspondent, Tapper responded by reminding everyone that facts are not partisan.
@devansADR facts aren t partisan.
Any FBI director confirming this investigation in open hearing is huge news.
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) March 21, 2017Fox & Friends demonstrated once again that they are nothing more than Trump s personal propaganda team.
They have zero credibility and every single one of them should removed from the air like Andrew Napolitano was after he lied in defense of Trump.Featured image via screenshot