Richard Spencer, who has the most punchable face in the U.S., just got clocked upside the head again.
The Alt-Right leader (neo-Nazi) was also glitter-bombed as well.On Twitter, Spencer has been vocal about his opposition to Trump s military strikes in Syria but that won t help his public image since the leader of the white supremacist faction on the right has elevated himself in the spotlight since just before the U.S. presidential election last year while promoting racist rhetoric.Spencer was confronted at a demonstration in Washington, D.C., against the military strikes against Syria.
The Alti-Right leader spoke to the crowd at the rally then he was confronted by counter-protesters who shouted Go home Nazis and called him a Nazi snowflake, according to Anti-Fascist News.The confrontation between the two groups became heated then the counter-protesters chased Spencer across the park as police followed along.The police protected Spencer and his Nazi buddies.Secret Service & cops in Washington DC protecting Richard Spencer & Nazis from #NoWarNoNazis.
Spencer tries to leave & fight breaks out.
pic.twitter.com/ctqirN0q4U Ash J (@AshAgony) April 8, 2017Richard Spencer ran into a taxi in Washington DC & got surrounded by #Antifa.
Cops came & tried to protect him.
#NoWarNoNazis pic.twitter.com/yHVV0hlK5b Ash J (@AshAgony) April 9, 2017Spencer tried to get into a taxi, but counter-protesters pulled him out of the vehicle, according to the Antifa site.
When he was getting into the cab he was allegedly pulled out by counter-protesters, punched, and glitter bombed, the site reports.
In a video posted on Periscope shortly thereafter, Spencer said what happened was that Antifa disallowed him to get in his getaway car and the police instructed him to get in a cab.
Once he was in one the cab driver (who Spencer mocked for being of Indian origin) got out of the cab, frightened of the ensuing protesters, and Spencer had to take off running.
Then he was glitter bombed.Here's the gif of Richard Spencer getting glitter bombed: https://t.co/4YJzkYFdxp?
pic.twitter.com/fwxlLFdUt7 Brett Banditelli (@banditelli) April 9, 2017Spencer assured his followers that he s OK.I m okay, fam.
Richard ??
Spencer (@RichardBSpencer) April 9, 2017This isn t Spencer s first time being smacked upside the head.
It s his third.richard spencer, with tears streaming down his face, resetting the "days since i have been punched" back to 0 again Kind Words Online (@kissesfingers) April 9, 2017In fact, Spencer was punched in the head twice in one day, one time by a woman.
#PunchANaziDay quickly went viral on Twitter then memes and gifs were created.During a live interview while in D.C. for alleged president Donald Trump s Inauguration, he was punched in the face.The attack was celebrated by many, and video of Spencer being punched in the face quickly turned into a viral meme.Twitter users set the moment to music and it went crazy on the Internet.this is as patriotic as I ve felt in a long time pic.twitter.com/yiVxd8semM ron dickles (@prttybadtweeter) January 21, 2017Spencer advocates for peaceful ethnic cleansing, however, I m not sure how he would accomplish that without violence.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images