The last GOP debate showed Republican presidential candidates Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz once again joining forces and ganging up on the party s disgraced front runner Donald Trump.What started off as a tense moment quickly diffused into a hilarious one as the two candidates made fun of Trump s ability to do yoga, considering how flexible he is on issues and policies.
Now, Cruz and Rubio are piggy-backing off this comedic moment to boost their fundraising efforts.This whole yoga incident started with Trump trying to interrupt Cruz (as usual), and Cruz putting him in his place by scolding him like a child: Donald, please, I know it s hard not to interrupt.
Breathe, breathe, breathe.
You can do it, breathe, I know it s hard, I know it s hard.
Rubio couldn t resist jumping in and saying, When they re done with the yoga, can I answer a question?
, prompting Cruz to add, I really hope that we don t see yoga on this stage.
Rubio went in for the closing punch and said, Well, (Trump s) very flexible, so you never know.
All the while, Trump stood up on the debate stage looking like a complete idiot.
It was possibly one of the funniest moments in the debate, and Cruz s campaign immediately decided they wanted to capitalize on it by selling their very own branded yoga mat on the campaign s online store.
Jeff Roe, Cruz s campaign manager, tweeted about the new mats to announce their arrival:TwitterRubio s campaign also did something similar to troll Trump.
On the campaign s Twitter account, @TeamMarco advertised yoga pants that had the #DumpTrump hashtag on them.
This product has since been deleted from Rubio s website, likely because of a caveat that p*ssed off supporters fine print that read: Note: you won t actually get #DumpTrump yoga pants, but your $10 donation will help Marco stop him.
TwitterThis is definitely the first time that yoga apparel has been a part of candidates yoga campaigns, but considering how much the GOP has made this race an absolute circus, it s hardly a surprise.You can watch the moment where this whole anti-Trump yoga campaign originated from below:Featured image via Gage Skidmore