On Saturday, Illinois newspaper, the Belleville News-Democrat.
published the unhinged ravings of one of the perpetual haters of sanity regarding President Obama s yet-unfulfilled mass gun-grab.
Sure, he s gone seven years without taking guns away from Americans even the Stupid Part of America but Steve Kassa Jr. of Edwardsville is certain that any day could be the day, and he wrote to share his mindbogglingly-stupid thoughts with everyone.
Obama was up to his lying and deceiving propaganda again trying to drum up support like Hitler installing to take your guns away, Kassa writes.
He s had his prostitute in the media, Katie Couric, doing gun propaganda all week on satellite.
In fact, he says that the President even used the Sandy Hook conspiracy (that s right he thinks Sandy Hook was fake) to emphasize his point that it s probably not a good idea to allow unhinged people to buy and own guns without some form of safeguard in place.
After this last big breaking of the law and getting in America s face with this transgender thing, if you can t see America where this guy is wanting you disarmed, you better watch some of the rise and fall of the third Reich on AHC or the American History Channel, he continues, segueing into the inevitable ill-informed Hitler comparison: These people have a very evil, demonic agenda and soon as they get the guns, if they can, you will see worse than what happened in Germany in World War II here in the United States.
In reality, had Mr. Kassa opened a book at some point in his lifetime (not even a history book, just any book that mentions Hitler s rise to power), he would know that while Hitler seized guns from his enemies, he was actually quite in favor of an armed populace.
Politifact notes that, like his party s modern-day American counterparts, Hitler was in favor of open carry, deregulation of firearm regulations, and allowing children to own guns:The Nazis adopted a new gun law in 1938.
According to an analysis by Bernard Harcourt, a professor at Columbia University School of Law, it loosened gun ownership rules in several ways.It deregulated the buying and selling of rifles, shotguns and ammunition.
It made handguns easier to own by allowing anyone with a hunting license to buy, sell or carry one at any time.
(You didn t need to be hunting.)
It also extended the permit period from one year to three and gave local officials more discretion in letting people under 18 get a gun.The regulations to implement this law, rather than the law itself, did impose new limits on one group: Jews.Then, things got crazy (yes, then).
Kassa decided to bring Agenda 21 into the mix: The rich white elite Democrats wanted the American Indians ground, so the first thing they did was disarm them, the next thing they did was put them on a reservation (Agenda 21), and then they stole their ground.
Go check out Agenda 21 for yourself.
Agenda 21 is a fictional New World Order plot to depopulate the earth and control everything that is mindlessly parroted by people who have trouble figuring out how to operate a doorknob.
In reality, Mother Jones notes that Agenda 21 isn t actually scary at all, despite the ominous-sounding name:While the name might sound a bit ominous, Agenda 21 is a voluntary action plan that offers suggestions for sustainable ways local, state and national governments can combat poverty and pollution and conserve natural resources in the 21st century.
(That s where the 21 comes from.
Get it?)
178 governments including the U.S. led by then-President George H.W.
Bush voted to adopt the program which is, again, not legally binding in any way, at the 1992 U.N. Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro.
These people are very evil and you bet they want the guns so bad they can t stand it, as it s not for your safety, but for theirs, Kassa concludes.
God bless America and unite as the one world order will have Obama coming after you.
Be prepared, stick together.
Featured image via Getty Images/Pool (modified)