Donald Trump was briefly surrounded by Secret Service agents at an Ohio rally on Saturday morning.
The event was his first since protesters shut him down in Chicago on Friday night, and a riot erupted at his rally in St. Louis earlier that day.Towards the end of Trump s bullsh*t-fest, someone shouted something and all the sudden Secret Service agents jumped on stage and surrounded the Republican front-runner.
It is unclear exactly what caused the agents to move in, but the real estate mogul thanked someone in the crowd: Thank you for the warning.
I was ready for em, but it s much better if the cops do it, don t we agree?
Before all of that happened, Trump addressed the rally in Chicago that was shut down on Friday, saying: So, look, we had a tremendous rally in Chicago planned.
We were gonna have over 25,000 people, the arena was seating about 11,000, we had registered much more than 25,000 So what happened was very interesting, these were great people like yourselves, these were people that want to make America great again.
No, no those were people who wanted to make America HATE again, not great.
People who want to make this country great, do not assault other people.
Trump is confused, but he continued: They were pouring into the arena, good arena, everything nice and all of the sudden a planned attack just came out of nowhere fortunately we were able to tell a lot of them know, don t go, because we would ve had a problem like you wouldn t have believed They would have wiped them out and that would not have been good.
And we made a decision I didn t want to see anybody get hurt, you would have had a problem like they haven t seen in a long time.
So, he s admitting that his supporters are so violent that they would have hurt people who were there to protest?
Just yesterday evening he was telling news anchors that he had no idea why there were conflicts at his events.
It s funny how he changes his tone when he is in front of his angry mobs of supporters, isn t it?He can feign innocence all he wants, but the fact of the matter is, most of America knows that he is bad for our country.
We know that he wants to divide us.
We know that he incites violence.
We know that he would make this country a horrible place to live and that s why Democratic candidates beat him in every single poll.The GOP needs to get it together and dump Drumpf or they are going to see they can kiss their chances of winning any election goodbye for a long, long time.Watch the rally: Featured image via screenshot