Pro man-made climate change, RINO Lindsay Graham, who never saw a war he didn t want to engage our troops in, joins his war hawk, RINO, anti-Trumper friend John McCain (who got crushed by Obama in the 2008 Presidential election), to call for investigations into Russian influence in our November elections.
John McCain withdrew his support for Trump after the bad words he used in a private conversation with another guy.
Lindsey Graham got crushed by Trump in the primaries and was a loud voice against his nomination.
He eventually changed his mind and offered his support for Trump in the general election against Hillary.
John McCain did not change his mind.The recount is over, but there s still time to discredit the legitimacy of Donald J. Trump s landslide election.
Who better to help the Democrats, than two RINO s who are at the top of the heap when it comes to draining useless Republicans from the swamp.
South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham (R) said Wednesday he would lead a charge to investigate Russia s interference in the U.S. election and hacks on the Democratic Party.
I think [Donald] Trump should take a real tough tone with Russia, because if he doesn t, you re going to allow Russia to begin to break apart alliances, Graham told CNN s Manu Raju.The Republican senator also said he hoped to use his leadership role on two subcommittees to launch a deeper investigation of Russia s hacks, CNN reported.
Graham chairs the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs subcommittee and the Crime and Terrorism subcommittee.Raju said Graham told him that he and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), chair of the Armed Services Committee, will travel to Eastern Europe to investigate Russian meddling in other countries elections.During the campaign, Graham was a strong GOP critic of Trump, including on his friendlier stance toward Russia, and chose to vote instead for independent candidate Evan McMullin.
The HillThe Obama administration clearly stated that they saw NO evidence of outside election tampering in the general election.On November 26, 2016 the Obama administration said it has seen no evidence of hackers tampering with the 2016 presidential election, even as recount proceedings began in Wisconsin.
We stand behind our election results, which accurately reflect the will of the American people, a senior administration official told POLITICO late Friday.
The federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious cyber activity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on election day, the official added.
We believe our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity perspective.
Yet yesterday this story appeared in the New York Times: WASHINGTON American intelligence agencies have concluded with high confidence that Russia acted covertly in the latter stages of the presidential campaign to harm Hillary Clinton s chances and promote Donald J. Trump, according to senior administration officials.They based that conclusion, in part, on another finding which they say was also reached with high confidence that the Russians hacked the Republican National Committee s computer systems in addition to their attacks on Democratic organizations, but did not release whatever information they gleaned from the Republican networks.In the months before the election, it was largely documents from Democratic Party systems that were leaked to the public.
Intelligence agencies have concluded that the Russians gave the Democrats documents to WikiLeaks.Republicans have a different explanation for why no documents from their networks were ever released.
Over the past several months, officials from the Republican committee have consistently said that their networks were not compromised, asserting that only the accounts of individual Republicans were attacked.
On Friday, a senior committee official said he had no comment.Donald Trump has said the CIA s conclusion that Russia interfered in the presidential election is ridiculous and being used by Democrats as just another excuse for his defeat of Hillary Clinton.The president-elect told Fox News Sunday that he did not necessarily oppose Barack Obama s order for a review of campaign-season cyber-attacks.But he added that in any such effort, you should not just say Russia .
You should say other countries also, and maybe other individuals.
Guardian