While the United States has as one of its presumptive party nominees a raging bigot who clearly hates Muslim individuals, even going so far as to say that if he were to become president he would ban Muslims from entering the nation, London has just elected a Muslim mayor.Now that Sadiq Khan has been elected mayor of London, he has some very choice words for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.Khan, being the son of Pakistani immigrants himself, is none to pleased with Trump s divisive rhetoric surrounding the Islamic faith.
And it s true that if the United States is to embody freedom, especially religious freedom, Trump needs to be educated on what that actually is, and Khan seems more than willing to provide that education.Half joking, Khan said: I ll need to rush to come to America before November, because if Trump wins, I ll be banned from coming.
But in an interview with Time magazine, he was much more serious with his remarks.
If Donald Trump becomes the president, I ll be stopped from going there by virtue of my faith, which means I can t engage with American mayors and swap ideas.
Conservative tacticians thought those sorts of tactics would win London and they were wrong.
I m confident that Donald Trump s approach to politics won t win in America.
In yet another interview, after hearing Trump congratulated him on his victory, Khan said: My point to Donald Trump is, don t make an exception for me.
Reconsider your views on Islam.
Driving the point home, also hoping to educate Trump, Khan told BBC: This isn t just about me.
It s about my friends, my family and everyone who comes from a background similar to mine, anywhere in the world.
Imagine if the world were to judge all Americans by the words and actions of Donald Trump.
That s exactly what Trump does when he judges an entire religion by an extremist few who claim they are of the Islamic faith, but yet clearly are just sociopaths.Trump s rhetoric is not only bad for the United States, it s bad for the entire world.
How is a man, who wants to be leader of the free world, supposed to do so by condemning all people of the world s second largest religion?Watch some of Khan s comments here:Featured image via video screen capture Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images