A Chicago man is in critical condition after the mother of all epic f*ckups by Trump s Deportation Force.
On Monday morning, ICE agents raided the home of Felix Torres.
It is unclear why they would choose to raid the home not a single person inside is undocumented but apparently, we are not too concerned about accuracy when we kick down brownish people s doors in Trump s America.At approximately 6:00 a.m., immigration agents entered the home, refusing to tell any of the residents why they were there.
According to officials, Torres pulled a gun on the armed men who had forced their way into his home and refused to explain their presence Torres family says that s utter hogwash.
They didn t say anything.
They just came in and pointed pistols in our faces and dragged us out, Torres daughter Carmen says, noting that she was not even allowed to dress or grab milk for her one-year-old daughter, who was sleeping when the armed men invaded the home.
It s a lie when they say he was holding a gun.
He doesn t even own a gun, she said.
They shot my dad.
They shot him, and I don t know why.
At least eight family members were in the house at the time, including numerous children.
According to Carmen Torres, the family has lived there for at least 30 years.
We re going to have to talk to CPD to find out if this was a coordinated effort, because if it was in any way, that raises concerns about us as a sanctuary city, 36th Ward Alderman Gilbert Villegas said of the attack.
Is this our future in Chicago with Donald Trump as president?
The community s got to be nervous about this, and rightfully so, because you have a right to be in your own home without being intimidated, Villegas says.
I m conflicted because I haven t got all the details [of the incident] yet, but from the way this has started to play out, it looks like an overstep by an overzealous ICE agent who s just trying to follow Trump s orders.
ICE officials say they were not at the home to arrest Torres, though they will nor provide further details.
The victim was taken to a nearby hospital where his condition is listed as critical.
The shooting is being investigated, though we probably can not expect much in terms of a reasonable resolution to the situation.Featured image via Facebook