Bolling tweeted a couple of messages, thanking his supporters who are standing by Bolling, as Huffington Post reporter Yashar Ali goes for the jugular Overwhelmed by all the support I have received.
Thank youI look forward to clearing my name asap Eric Bolling (@ericbolling) August 7, 2017In this tweet, Bolling claims that the accusations against him are false smear attacks!
I will continue to fight against these false smear attacks!
THANK YOU FOR CONTINUED SUPPORT Eric Bolling (@ericbolling) August 9, 2017The Hill Fox News host Eric Bolling is reportedly suing the Huffington Post reporter who broke a story last week that included several female co-workers claiming Bolling sent them lewd photos.
Just received a summons.
Eric Bolling is suing me for defamation $50 million in damages, Yashar Ali, a HuffPost contributing writer, tweeted to his 140,000 Twitter followers on Wednesday.
I stand by my reporting + will protect my sources.
Just received a summons.
Eric Bolling is suing me for defamation $50 million in damages.
I stand by my reporting + will protect my sources Yashar Ali (@yashar) August 9, 2017Ali clarifies in his next post that Bolling is suing him and NOT the Huffington Post:It's important to note that Bolling's summons does not include HuffPost he is coming after me personally.
I'm a big boy but very telling https://t.co/nvludsIV87 Yashar Ali (@yashar) August 9, 2017Not going to stop reporting on Eric Bolling or anyone else.
I've had family members killed/jailed in Iran, a lawsuit isn't going to scare me https://t.co/nvludsIV87 Yashar Ali (@yashar) August 9, 2017 The nature of this action is for damages and injunctive relief based on defamation arising from the defendant s efforts to injure the plaintiff s reputation through the intentional and/or highly reckless publication of actionable false and misleading statements about the plaintiff s conduct and character.
As a result of the defendant s actions, the plaintiff has been substantially harmed, reads the summons sent to Ali.The editor in chief of The Huffington Post tweeted that the outlet will be standing by Ali in the case.Yashar Ali is a paid freelancer under contract with HuffPost.
We have no hesitation about standing by him financially in this case.
Lydia Polgreen (@lpolgreen) August 9, 2017HuffPost says they have "no hesitation" to financially stand by @yashar in @ericbolling case Hadas Gold (@Hadas_Gold) August 10, 2017