Fox News commentator Charles Krauthammer wrote a column discussing Donald Trump s mental health on Thursday and he did not hold back.Krauthammer, who happens to be a board-certified psychiatrist, strongly rebuked the Republican nominee for viciously attacking Khizr Khan and his wife Ghazala, who lost their son Humayun when he sacrificed his life to save his fellow American soldiers in Iraq.
It reveals a shocking absence of elementary decency and of natural empathy for the most profound of human sorrows parental grief, Krauthammer wrote.
It wasn t a mistake.
It was a revelation.
Krauthammer then put his psychiatry skills to work, slamming Trump s narcissism and thin skin.
Trump s hypersensitivity and unedited, untempered Pavlovian responses are, shall we say, unusual in both ferocity and predictability.This is beyond narcissism.
I used to think Trump was an 11-year-old, an undeveloped schoolyard bully.
I was off by about 10 years.
His needs are more primitive, an infantile hunger for approval and praise, a craving that can never be satisfied.
He lives in a cocoon of solipsism where the world outside himself has value indeed exists only insofar as it sustains and inflates him.
Krauthammer went on to say that Trump is struggling to pass the threshold test for acceptability, comparing this year s election to the 1980 Election in which Reagan defeated incumbent President Jimmy Carter.
Trump badly needs to pass that threshold, he wrote.
If character is destiny, he won t. Indeed, Trump is definitely no Ronald Reagan.
Reagan spoke positively about America and the future while Trump is all gloom and doom and doesn t know when to keep his mouth shut.Krauthammer is not the only mental health professional who has talked about Trump s mental health status either.Dr.
Drew Pinsky appeared on CNN earlier this week and expressed concern about Trump s temperament and impulsiveness.
The question, though, is, are some of the reckless qualities that everyone is getting so disturbed about on the campaign going to be translated into office should he get elected?
That s a pretty hard thing to predict.
I don t know if this is just somebody playing politics, or is this somebody who really can t contain their impulses?
When I hear people that are impulsive with their speech, I worry about hypomania and bipolar types of conditions.
Pinsky went on to question the mental stability of Trump s supporters.Clearly, there is something wrong with Donald Trump and he is not fit to be president of the United States at a time when there is so much conflict and upheaval in the world.
We need a steady hand at the helm, not a hand that lashes out over every little slight and criticism, especially when that hand belongs to a man who is obsessed with using nuclear weapons.
Mental instability and access to the nuclear codes would be a dangerous combination.Featured Image: John Moore/Getty Images