Rick Santorum had the impossible job of defending Donald Trump during Friday s Real Time and he found himself humiliatingly outnumbered.Bill Maher began by expressing astonishment at how the Republican nominee has been acting throughout the campaign.
Even conservative commentator Tara Setmayer couldn t believe Trump s antics, surmising that it s almost like he is trying to lose but people just keep supporting him so he has to do something even more outrageous.
It s easy to behave this way when you re mentally ill, director Rob Reiner chimed in.
It s not like he s trying to lose.
He can t help himself.
Then Santorum took his turn and instantly became the punching bag for Maher and the other two panelists when he attempted to defend Trump as some kind of change-maker while portraying Hillary Clinton as a politics-as-usual candidate.Setmayer pointed at Santorum and pointed out that people like him are to blame for Trump getting this far while Rob Reiner once again pleaded, Stop being mentally ill. Santorum claimed that Trump was relatively tame on Friday, prompting Setmayer to ask if Trump seriously wants a cookie for acting like an adult for once.Maher explained that Trump can never be president because his number one priority is getting back at anybody who has slighted him in any way.
Santorum continued repeating how Trump has tapped into some kind of anger among conservatives who think they are being ignored, but Setmayer hit back by noting that there s a way to do that without acting like a petulant child, and that Trump is an embarrassment.Santorum then attacked Hillary Clinton by claiming Trump isn t a liar like her by bringing up her emails again, which drew the ire of Rob Reiner.
Let s talk about the FBI!
There was one email!
One email that was not listed as classified with a little tiny c and James Comey said anybody could have missed that!
Enough of that!
Enough of that!
Bill Maher agreed, saying that he is sick of hearing about Hillary s emails all the time.The panel continued piling on Santorum with Setmayer doing the most damage and then Maher slammed Republicans for handcuffing themselves to a dead hooker by making Trump their nominee and catering to a base that hates and denies facts.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is an embarrassment to this country and as this episode of Maher demonstrates, even conservatives are embarrassed that he is the Republican nominee.
Those who still support him are either ignorant or just want to watch the world burn.Featured Image: Screenshot