Minnesota humorist Garrison Keillor just nailed Donald Trump in one of the best take-downs yet.Donald Trump is an insecure little man who thinks the presidency will finally make people respect him, and nobody made that clearer than Keillor, who wrote a column published on Wednesday that puts the Republican nominee in his place.Keillor begins by focusing on Trump s hat.
The brim shadows your face, which gives a sinister look, as if you d come to town to announce the closing of the pulp factory, he wrote.
Your eyes look dead and your scowl does not suggest American greatness so much as American indigestion.
Keillor continued by pointing out that Trump has apparently been trying for his entire life to be liked and respected by the Manhattan elite.
The New York Times treats you like the village idiot, Keillor wrote.
This is painful for a Queens boy trying to win respect in Manhattan When you came to Manhattan 40 years ago, you discovered that in entertainment, the press, politics, finance, everywhere you went, you ran into Jews, and they are not like you: Jews didn t go in for big yachts and a fleet of aircraft they showed off by way of philanthropy or by raising brilliant offspring.
They sympathized with the civil rights movement.
In Queens, blacks were a threat to property values they belonged in the Bronx, not down the street.
To the Times, Queens is Cleveland.
Bush league.
You are Queens.
The casinos were totally Queens, the gold faucets in your triplex, the bragging, the insults, but you wanted to be liked by Those People.
This explains why Trump would throw his hat into the presidential ring.
He is desperate for respect from his wealthy peers.
Running for president is your last bid for the respect of Manhattan, Keillor continued.
If you were to win election, they couldn t ridicule you anymore.
They could be horrified, but there is nothing ridiculous about being Leader of the Free World.
You have B-52 bombers at your command.
When you go places, a battalion of security guys comb the environs.
You attract really really good speechwriters who give you Churchillian cadences and toss in quotes from Emerson and Aeschylus and Ecclesiastes.
Keillor then went on to mock Trump over the bad month he had in August.
The teleprompter is not your friend.
You are in the old tradition of locker room ranting and big honkers in the steam room, sitting naked, talking man talk, griping about the goons and ginks and lousy workmanship and the uppity broads and the great lays and how you vanquished your enemies at the bank.
Keillor concludes by pointing out that running for president is the hardest work Trump has ever done in his life and breaks the news to Donald that in the end he is going to lose and he won t get a damn thing he wanted.
It s the hardest work you ve ever done.
You walk out in the white cap and you rant for an hour about stuff that means nothing and the fans scream and wave their signs and you wish you could level with them for once and say one true thing: I love you to death and when this is over I will have nothing that I want.
Donald Trump is currently imploding in the polls and his campaign continues fly off the rails even as he insists that he is winning and that everybody loves him.This is a man in serious denial and Keillor just hit him with the reality that he has always been a loser and will always be a loser.Featured image via Getty