Republicans often claim Jesus as one of their own, but if you read what Jesus said in the Bible, it s clear that Jesus is nothing like them.And Jimmy Kimmel demonstrated that even further on Tuesday night by bringing a guy dressed as Jesus on the stage to read quotes uttered by Republican presidential wannabes.As Jesus read the quotes, it became increasingly awkward.
After all, we ve read the words of Jesus, but hearing him say things that seem contrary to his message slammed home the point that none of the GOP candidates practice what Jesus preached.Here are just a few of the quotes recited.
You don t lock your doors because you hate people on the outside.
You lock the doors because you love the people on the inside.
~Marco Rubio We need appropriate vetting, and I don t think orphans under five are being you know, you should be admitted into the United States at this point.
~Chris Christie You don t stop bad guys by taking away our guns, you stop bad guys by using our guns.
~Ted Cruz I would bomb the sh*t out of them!
~Donald Trump When you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families!
They care about their lives, don t kid yourselves.
They say they don t care about their lives.
But you have to take out their families.
Donald Trump I ll take the votes of everyone who loves machine guns and bacon!
~Ted CruzHere s the video via YouTube.Yeah, that s a long way from what Jesus has said.
The servant is not greater than his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him.
~Jesus in John 13:16 Judge not, that ye be not judged.
For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
~Jesus in Matthew 7:1-2 Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.
~Jesus in Matthew 5:9 But whoever has this world s goods, and sees his brother in need, and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
~Jesus in 1 John 3:17 Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
~Jesus in Matthew 11:28 For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.
Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee?
or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in?
or naked, and clothed thee?
Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.
~Jesus in Matthew 25:34-40Clearly, Jesus and the Republican presidential candidates are nothing like each other.
Feature image via screenshot