Yet another example of our airline industry s awesomeness occurred Friday when an employee was captured on video challenging a passenger to a fight after a woman holding a baby was hit with her stroller.
The video begins with the crying woman holding one of her children in her arms while begging for her stroller back.One angry witness can be heard saying he s not going to sit here and watch this before going to the front of the plane to demand the name of the employee who hit the woman.
Another woman on the flight can be heard confronting the staff about their treatment of the latest victim of airline violence.
Much of the staff s conversation can not be heard from the vantage point of the person filming, but the gentleman who initially confronted the thugs on the plane stands up and says you do that to me and I ll knock you flat.
You stay out of this!
the male flight attendant shot back.
Try it.
Hit me.
You don t know what the story is.
But the passenger knew what the story is (the part that matters, anyway):I don t care what the story is.
You almost hit that baby!Q13 Fox spoke to some of the people aboard the plane, and the story is just as terrible as it seems:Olivia Morgan was standing in the doorway of the aircraft with her 8-year-old daughter waiting to board when the altercation happened.
The flight attendant wrestled the stroller away from the woman, who was sobbing, holding one baby with the second baby in a car seat on the ground next to her, she said.Morgan said the flight attendant was violent when taking the metal stroller from the woman and nearly hit the baby with the stroller.
He stormed by me with the stroller and I said something like, What are you doing?
You almost hit that baby!
And he yelled at me to stay out of it!
just like he does in the video, she said.Morgan said she talked to the woman about the incident.
The woman said a female flight attendant told her she could look for space to store the stroller because it folds up very small, but if there was no available space, she would need to check it at the gate.
She was looking for space when the male attendant tried to take it away from her and she said she told him the other attendant had told her it was okay to look, she said.According to the American Airlines website, small strollers can be checked at the gate but there is no policy about strollers in the overhead bin.
The lady and her two children were seated near the back of the plane.
She was somehow able to get her stroller on board and back near her seat, said Tom Watson, who was sitting just behind the first class section when the staff went insane.
She refused to let him take it and she was almost to the point of shouting.
The flight attendant and the woman started making their way to the front of the plane.
They were at the front of the plane near the crew area.
The woman was holding on to the stroller and refusing to let go, he continued, adding that The flight attendant should not have been so aggressive and should have been more aware of the kids.
He then says the woman was escorted off the plane.Fortunately, American Airlines seems to have learned from United s numerous blunders following employees assault on a doctor.
Rather than attempt to blame the woman, the company released a statement announcing that the employee has been suspended (not terminated though):We have seen the video and have already started an investigation to obtain the facts.
What we see on this video does not reflect our values or how we care for our customers.
We are deeply sorry for the pain we have caused this passenger and her family and to any other customers affected by the incident.
We are making sure all of her family s needs are being met while she is in our care.
After electing to take another flight, we are taking special care of her and her family and upgrading them to first class for the remainder of their international trip.The actions of our team member captured here do not appear to reflect patience or empathy, two values necessary for customer care.
In short, we are disappointed by these actions.
The American team member has been removed from duty while we immediately investigate this incident.The woman had to take another flight, but was given upgraded accommodations.Watch video shot directly following the attack below: Featured image via screengrab