So we disrespect the flag in class now?
Whether this teacher tried to get this child to stand is one thing another thing is the fact that children AND adults aren t being taught why we stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
MAYBE THIS KID COULD TALK TO THE KID WHO WON T STAND: The video below was created by a student to teach students the importance and meaning behind saying the Pledge of Allegiance:STAND FOR THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE!A student in Farmington Hills, Michigan is accusing a teacher of assault.
The teacher tried to get the boy to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance but the boy says he doesn t do that.The teacher was put on leave and is under investigation now.A Black Publication is trying to spin this as just more racism after other black athletes refused to stand for the National Anthem.
Notice how The Root spins this alleged assault: Everybody is all about freedom of speech and expression until a black person (hey, Colin Kaepernick; hey, Jemele Hill) decides to exercise his or her right to do so.
And in this particular case, a black sixth-grader out of Michigan says he was assaulted by his homeroom teacher all because he was exercising his rights and declined to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.STONE CHANEY:Stone Chaney is a sixth-grader and had just started his first week of school but may not go back because he feels his rights were violated.Stone claims: The teacher consultant comes up behind me and snatches me out of my chair violently.
I was so confused.
I didn t know what was going on.
He says the homeroom teacher tried to force him to stand during the Pledge of Allegiance.
I PLEDGE TO GOD AND FAMILY Click on Detroit reported: I don t stand because I don t pledge to a flag, Stone said.
I pledge to God and family.
The alleged incident happened Sept. 7.
Stone said the next day, another teacher yelled at him for sitting down during the Pledge.
I don t feel safe going to that school anymore because I don t know what they re going to do next, Stone said.His father addressed the district directly during their last board meeting.
It s his choice to sit, Brian Chaney said.
I don t make him sit.
And they should respect that.
Marine veteran Stephen Stevens sees things differently.
I would love to be able to talk to them and get their side and explain my side so maybe we could come to an understanding, Stevens said.
Because I get they have that right, but I don t believe they understand what that right really entails.
If they re fighting for freedom, they re fighting for us to have choices, Brian Chaney said.
Then it s our choice.
The superintendent of Farmington Public Schools released the following statement: The District fully supports the right of each student to participate or not in the daily Pledge.
The teacher allegedly involved in the incident has been placed on administrative leave.
At this time, the District cannot speculate about the outcome of the pending investigation.
The family is exploring its options.
Stone hasn t gone back to school, but they re probably going to leave the district.