A Missouri state representative is making national headlines today after he shared a video on Facebook of him decapitating a living chicken to drive home his disgusting opinion about abortion.In the grotesque video, GOP state Rep. Mike Moon promotes his anti-abortion bill while he hangs a live chicken upside down from a tree branch.Mr.
Moon then says, When the governor called for the second special session this year, I was right in the middle of my summer job.
But like any good career politician, when I get the call, I m going back to work, he happily exclaims as he starts to slice into the neck of the chicken, causing it to writhe around and flap its wings.He then proceeds to mutilate the chicken, pulling out its heart while lecturing about the need to protect human lives.
God gave us man dominion over life.
He allows us to raise animals properly and care for them and then process them for food so we can sustain life.
And that s what I m doing here with this chicken.
So we ve been called back to this special session for the primary purpose of supporting life, protecting the unborn specifically.
I think we need to get to the heart of the matter here.
So today, I m filing a bill that will lead to the stopping of abortion in the state of Missouri and I hope you ll support it.
The Springfield News reports that Moon s bill emphasizes that Missouri protect the right to life of all humans, born and unborn and to require due process of law before the life of any human, born or unborn, is ended prior to natural death.
The National Abortion Rights Leauge didn t think the stunt was very funny and calls Moon out for playing political games with the healthcare of women.
It was insulting watching Rep.
Moon use the rights of women across Missouri as some kind of political prop, the organization said.
His call to ban abortion is disturbing and dangerous, no matter what he does with that chicken.
Hopefully, the backlash from this stunt will make Mr.
Moon realize that women deserve access to healthcare, regardless of what he likes to do to chicken in the privacy of his own home.Feature image via Screen Capture