It s time for the IRS to end non-profit status for all conservative organizations.But at least they did the right thing by taking away the non-profit status of the National Policy Institute, a white nationalist organization run by obnoxious Trump Nazi Richard Spencer.For years, the Nazi organization got away with being classified as a non-profit.
You know, because the IRS apparently doesn t vet these organizations to make sure they legitimately should get such status.That s why conservatives have created a ton of non-profits over the years.
It s a Trump-like scam designed to fleece people of their money and not pay taxes on it.But Spencer s little scheme got busted for failing to file tax returns for more the three years starting after 2012.According to the Los Angeles Times,The IRS had apparently misclassified the National Policy Institute and publicly listed the group as not being required to file such forms.
The IRS fixed the error in February, and on Monday it updated its records to say that the National Policy Institute s tax-exempt status had been stripped retroactively as of May 15, 2016, when the group s 2015 tax return would have been due.Of course, Spencer is trying to pin the blame on the IRS instead of taking personal responsibility.On Monday, Spencer said an IRS error led him to believe his group was not required to file federal tax returns, and said he would appeal the loss of his tax-exempt status.
I don t know what to say.
I don t want to make a comment because I don t understand this stuff, Spencer said in a telephone interview.
It s a bit embarrassing, but it s not good.
We ll figure it out.
Tax experts, however, countered Spencer s bullshit by pointing out that ignorance of the tax code is not an acceptable excuse.They should have known that they should have been filing, said Philip T. Hackney, a law professor at Louisiana State University who formerly worked for the IRS, specializing in nonprofits.
It s very clear under the law that if you don t file for three years, you lose your status.
Chuck McLean, a senior research fellow at Guidestar, a site that monitors and publishes records of nonprofits, agreed.
Ignorance is no excuse, McLean said.But the National Policy Institute should also lose non-profit status because the organization openly endorsed Donald Trump.
Non-profits are barred by federal law from supporting political candidates.At one event held in November, Spencer received Nazi salutes after telling the crowd Hail Trump!
Hail our people!
Hail victory!
If anything, Nazis should be punched in the United States, not given non-profit status so they can spread their evil agenda.Featured Image: Win McNamee/Getty Images