Donald Trump s kids may support him in spirit (and terrible tweets), but they won t be going out to vote for him in the New York primary.
Ivanka and Eric Trump both failed to register as Republicans in time to do so.
According to Trump, this is because New York s primary registration rules were unfair.
After all, the cutoff was in October, and at that point people including, apparently, his own kids still sort of expected Trump to have dropped out by now.On CNN, Ivanka claimed New York s voting regulations are onerous.
New York has one of the most onerous rules in terms of registration, and it required us to register a long time ago, almost close to a year ago.
And we didn t do that.
We found out about it sort of after the fact.
to which the millions of disenfranchised Democratic voters who have watched Voter ID laws sweep the country responded by playing the world s smallest violin.Trump himself told his supporters that Ivanka and Eric feel very, very guilty.
Adding: They feel very guilty.
But it s fine.
I understand that.
Except here s the thing: The Trump kids could probably vote for their dad if they really wanted to.
It would just require a little work.In a highly informative piece on Gothamist, writer Nathan Tempey explained how someone who missed the primary registration deadline could still vote in the election.
It s certainly not ideal, but it s not exactly rocket science, either.One is to try to get a court order stating you should be allowed to vote in a certain party s primary.
As difficult as this sounds, the city Board of Elections actually stations judges at offices in each of the boroughs on Primary Day to do exactly this.
For reasons unknown, this information doesn t appear on the board s website, but a spokeswoman provided a list of locations and hours judges will be at them Something tells me explaining to a judge My dad s on the ballot will be a good enough reason to get your vote counted.
However, it s highly unlikely Trump s kids will reduce themselves to standing in a busy borough office waiting to have a judge hear their case, fill out the appropriate paperwork, then travel to a voting site.
Why do that when they can simply complain about it on Fox News?Featured image via Grant Lamos IV/Getty Images