How do you stop cyber-attacks?
Well, if you re Donald Trump, the solution is very, very simple.
It s so simple it s amazing nobody else has thought of it.
Trump must think he s the genius of the world for thinking of this.
He believes that stopping cyber-attacks is as simple as no longer using computers, let alone the Internet.No, really, he pretty much said that at a rally in Colorado just yesterday.
It s almost laughable if you can get through his word salad: I like the old days, especially for the military, on things like that.
You wanna attack or you wanna do something?
It s called courier.
It s called, let s put it in a thing in an envelope and let s hand it to the general.
Let s not send it over the wires where everybody s probably reading it, right?
And no matter how good, no matter how good they say it is, it s not.
I mean, people can hack it I guess.
It s terrible.
I know and if you talk about military and you talk about secrets, you talk about politics.
[emphasis mine]Because that s totally realistic in this day and age of information technology.
Trump is remarkably regressive he s also said he doesn t use email all that much because he s just not a believer in it.
As for his nonstop Twitter use, the jury is out on whether he does that himself or not.
He s told some outlets he does, and he s told others that he has staffers do it.So who knows what he really does with Twitter?
His policy on cyber security, though, is absurd on its face.
There is no getting rid of electronic communication; there is no getting rid of the Internet in the name of security.
There is no going back to outmoded means of communication in the name of security.
It is just not happening.But don t tell that to Trump, because he probably won t hear it.
This is the man who asked Bill Gates to close up the parts of the Internet that the Islamic State uses, as if Bill Gates runs the whole entirety of the Web by himself.
And, of course, Trump thinks the Internet is ours, so closing up parts of it to keep hostile powers from using it should be easy.The man is clueless.
His lack of even the most rudimentary understanding of how the Internet works is astounding.Featured image by Joe Raedle/Getty Images