Oklahoma State University student Sherene Zarrabi loves fashion.
She is so fond of it, in fact, that she found a job working at a clothing store called Danity Hooligan while she went to school.
But now her beloved job is a thing of the past and it is all because of one extremely nasty boss, a body-shaming email and the young woman s respect for herself.While she worked at Danity Hooligan she also ran the store s Instagram page.
During her down time at work, she would try on some of the store s clothes, snap a picture and post it on the social media website as a form of advertising.High buns and combat boots are my new thing.
And apparently mirror selfies are my new thing also.
#fallfashion #combatboots #highbun #selfieA photo posted by Sherene Zarrabi (@sherenemarie) on Nov 30, 2015 at 5:28pm PSTWhen I m bored at work, I take shameless mirror pics to show off my extra comfy outfit.
Fall clothes make me so happy!
???
#fallfashion #ootdA photo posted by Sherene Zarrabi (@sherenemarie) on Nov 14, 2015 at 11:53am PSTYou d think her boss would be thrilled, right?Apparently, not so much.
Instead of rewarding her for the time and effort she put into the business, her boss sent an email to the store manager complaining that Sherene didn t have a model figure:The email reads: Something I want to make sure you keep in mind: I want size small, the stereotypical model type to model our clothes.
Please use our pictures of our models if Stillwater can t find someone who would be considered model material.
This is not to put anyone down but to communicate the expectations of presenting our brand.Don t take it personal.
All I ask is for really good representation.
In exchange for the freedom, I ask you to take down all pictures of anyone that doesn t fit the criteria.
Don t take it personal ?
Really?First of all, this young lady is a beautiful woman and she looked amazing in those clothes.
This vile human being was lucky to have such a lovely girl in their clothing.Secondly, no woman should ever be made to feel as if they are not good enough no matter what size they are.
Body shaming is disgusting and has no place in our society.Fortunately, Sharene gave zero f*cks what her boss thought of her and she responded by promptly quitting and writing the following statement on Facebook:This is an email I was forwarded earlier.
I just want to start by saying this: I am fully comfortable with who I am and the way I look.
I have recently been attacked and discriminated against by the owner of Dainty Hooligan.
She went on our stores Instagram and deleted all of the pictures where I was modeling the clothing and then sent this email to my manager.
I do not want to respresent or support a business that has such archaic values and beliefs.
THIS is the reason young girls have body image issues.
This is disgusting.
I quit immediately and I suggest that my friends and family do not support Dainty Hooligan.
Love yourself, no matter what you look like.BRAVO!She is exactly right and the best response to that horrible email was removing herself from such a toxic environment.
Frankly, if the store owner does not respect ALL women, they have no business selling clothes to us.
Women have enough issues with body image as it is, we really don t need someone else shaming us.
Featured image from Facebook; h/t Winning Democrats