Republicans are in full-blown panic mode as over 70 GOPers signed a letter to the RNC begging them to abandon Trump to focus on funding down-ticket races in order to prevent the party s extinction.As Donald Trump continues to sink in the polls while refusing to curb his extreme rhetoric, many Republicans have jumped ship from the party, choosing to vote for Hillary Clinton instead or not vote at all.The Republican nominee is even dragging other Republicans down with him as Democrats have a real good chance of taking back the Senate and the House because Trump s stink is causing trouble for GOP candidates in races across the nation.And that s why a multitude of high profile Republicans from both past and present have written a letter to RNC Chair Reince Priebus asking him to shift money and resources from the presidential election to down-ticket races in an effort to keep Republicans in control of Congress.
We believe that Donald Trump s divisiveness, recklessness, incompetence, and record-breaking unpopularity risk turning this election into a Democratic landslide, and only the immediate shift of all available RNC resources to vulnerable Senate and House races will prevent the GOP from drowning with a Trump-emblazoned anchor around its neck, the letter states.
This should not be a difficult decision, as Donald Trump s chances of being elected president are evaporating by the day.
Politico reports that it lists several of Trumps major stumbles since he threw his hat in the ring in June of last year including his offensive racist remarks about Mexicans and Muslims, his ties to Russia, and his attacks against a Gold Star family.
And that doesn t include his most recent outrageous statements, which include calling President Obama the founder of ISIS and calling for gun nuts to assassinate Hillary Clinton.
Those recent outrages have built on his campaign of anger and exclusion, during which he has mocked and offended millions of voters, including the disabled, women, Muslims, immigrants, and minorities, the letter continues.
He also has shown dangerous authoritarian tendencies, including threats to ban an entire religion from entering the country, order the military to break the law by torturing prisoners, kill the families of suspected terrorists, track law-abiding Muslim citizens in databases, and use executive orders to implement other illegal and unconstitutional measures.
And they go on to argue in favor of halting funds earmarked for Trump s campaign and re-routing the money to other campaigns.
Trump s divisive and dangerous actions are not only a threat to our other candidates, but to our Party and the nation Every dollar spent by the RNC on Donald Trump s campaign is a dollar of donor money wasted on the losing effort of a candidate who has actively undermined the GOP at every turn.
Rather than throwing good money after bad, the RNC should shift its strategy and its resources to convince voters not to give Hillary Clinton the blank check of a Democrat-controlled Congress to advance her big government agenda.
Again, over 70 Republicans, including many heavy hitters, signed this letter to the RNC just like 50 Republican national security experts signed a letter denouncing the billionaire mogul earlier this week.And on the same day as details of this current letter are released, Republican strategist Matt Mackowiak summed up the GOP disgust with Trump and their worry over how he is affecting the party.
OK, this shit s not funny anymore, he wrote on Twitter.
Trump is threatening elected GOPers at all levels in places that haven t been competitive in decades We are looking at an extinction-level event.
This is the ultimate proof that Republicans know that Hillary is going to destroy them in November even though they really only have themselves to blame for creating the political climate that gave rise to an extremist opportunist like Trump in the first place.
So it s just a matter of waiting and seeing if we should get the tombstone ready for the Republican Party as a whole.Featured Image: baystateconservativenews.com