After Donald Trump watches this ad he ll probably start saying that he likes people who weren t wounded in combat.During his presidential campaign, Trump smeared Vietnam veteran John McCain by saying that he likes people who weren t captured by the enemy.
McCain is a war hero who was a prisoner of war.
He was brutally tortured after being shot down during a mission.
As a result, McCain can no longer lift his arms above his shoulders.Ever since the election, Trump has been whining about not being treated like a legitimate president.
Of course, that s because Trump lashes out at anyone who criticizes him like a petulant child who isn t getting his way.
It s also because Russia helped him win the election and because he has done nothing but hurt people across the nation and all around the world with his policies.For instance, Trump s assault on Obamacare threatens the healthcare of 30 million Americans, including veterans.Well, one veteran had a message for Trump in an amazing ad released on Monday.As a bearded man lifts weights, the camera pulls away to reveal that he only has one leg.
He lost the other leg fighting for our country.
President Trump, I hear you watch the morning shows, he began.
Here s what I do every morning.
He then tells Trump that if he wants to be considered a legitimate president he should act like one by not killing Obamacare and banning Muslims from entering the nation.
Look, you lost the popular vote.
You re having trouble drawing a crowd.
And your approval rating keeps sinking.
But kicking thousands of my fellow veterans off the health insurance by killing the Affordable Care Act and banning Muslims won t help.
That s not the America I sacrificed myself for.
You wanna be a legitimate president, sir?
Then act like one.
Here s the video via Twitter.New TV ad running today: Wounded veteran tells Trump: You wanna be a legitimate president, sir?
Then act like one.
pic.twitter.com/GiL5X62Dx5 Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) February 6, 2017Donald Trump will never be legitimate.
Because he is totally incapable of acting presidential.
He is a selfish bully who only cares about himself and his rich friends.
It s only been a little over two weeks since he took over the White House and he is already destroying the very foundation of this country while alienating our allies.
His decisions are ruining lives.
And he has even gotten a Navy SEAL killed in response to a video that is several years old, proving that he is completely inept.
At some point, the military will have to refuse to follow Trump s orders, especially if he continues to escalate confrontations with Iran and China.
This country cannot afford to lose more blood and treasure because a madman is obsessed with absolute power.Read more:Featured image via screenshot