Yesterday, a second U.S. judge on Tuesday blocked President Donald Trump s decision to end a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children from deportation.U.S.
District Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn ruled that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, cannot end in March as the Republican administration had planned, a victory for Democratic state attorneys general and immigrants who sued the federal government.The decision is similar to a Jan. 9 ruling by U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco that DACA must remain in place while litigation challenging Trump s decision continues.The legal battle over DACA complicates a debate currently underway in Congress on whether to change the nation s immigration laws.The Supreme Court on Friday is due to consider whether to take up the administration s appeal of the San Francisco ruling.
The court could announce as soon as Friday afternoon whether it will hearing the case.
ReutersSince when does a judge unilaterally decide that a program based on an executive order by a radical and lawless president, with an expiration date, can be extended?Peel back the layers of lies that are being told to the American public by Democrats like Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, and their allies in the media, and discover the shocking truth about the Dreamers (or voters) they re fighting so hard to keep in America.
According to The Hill, the narrative surrounding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program holds that it was put in place to protect kids who were brought here through no fault of their own.
DACA supporters implied that applicants were mostly Hispanic and that as citizens of distressed republics a short distance away from the wealthy United States, their violation of our immigration laws was somehow understandable.
Program applicants were also portrayed as brilliant valedictorians and proud members of the military.From the outset, that narrative rang hollow.
In a column for the Washington Post, Mickey Kaus described it as public-relations-style hooey.
Here s why.New data released by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) definitively establishes that most of the DACA narrative is false.
Particularly overblown are claims that deported DACA recipients would inevitably be strangers in a strange land.USCIS lists 149 countries of origin for DACA applicants.
English is the national language in at least 26 of those countries.
Those include the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Ireland.
A large number of applicants are from India, Hong Kong and the Philippines, where there are enormous English-speaking communities.Other statistics also undermine claims that the United States must take care of the DACAs or condemn them to a life of isolation and poverty.In fact, many DACA applicant s birth countries are listed on the higher end of the common standard of living indexes.
Which means that DACA advocates are arguing that the United States has a moral obligation to undermine its own laws in order to avoid returning illegal aliens to countries whose citizens are considered to have a higher standard of living than many Americans.One wonders why it has never occurred to Congress that its primary obligation should be protecting native-born American kids from illegal aliens who compete with them for entry-level jobs and seats at colleges and universities.
Curiously, our elected representatives seem remarkably unconcerned about protecting America s standard of living.What is most disturbing about the data released by USCIS, however, is the number of DACA applicants who come from countries associated with terrorism or overt anti-Americanism.
This is cause for concern given the lean and lite vetting used to quickly approve DACA applications:Based on the facts rather than the myth it seems clear the individuals who applied for, and received, DACA were not the oppressed, well-meaning, high-achievers that the media and the open-borders lobby portrayed them to be.