Donald Trump s supporters are a violent bunch.
All you have to do is go to one of his rallies to see how dangerous this man and his freaky fans are.
They ve now taken it a step further, too and dangerously so.
The artist who painted a photo of a naked Donald Trump, Ilma Gore, was accosted and beaten by a Trump supporter near her home in Los Angeles.
Gore says of the attack: Today I was punched in the face by a man who got out of his car and yelled, Trump 2016!
in Los Angeles, just days after I returned home from London just down the road from my house.
She posted absolutely disturbing photos of her bruised face to Instagram so people could see what those neanderthals did to her:Today I was punched in the face by a man who got out of his car and yelled, Trump 2016!
in Los Angeles, just days after I returned home from London just down the road from my house.
Though I encourage passion, opinion and emotion, especially though art, I think violence is disgusting.
To live in a place where Facebook has given my address to an anonymous third party makes me feel like I am homeless again.
This type of violence makes creatives feel like we live in a world where our individual creative input isn t safe.
I am sad that this is the state of our America right now.
I am sad that Trump, and many of his supporters, don t find words enough to express their opinions they need walls, waterboarding and punches.
@realdonaldtrump Please stop glamorizing and perpetuating violence.
Make America Decent Again!
#makeamericadecentagain No, they have not been caught, and the men drove off laughing.
A detailed police report has been filed.A photo posted by Illma Gore (@illmagore) on Apr 29, 2016 at 4:10pm PDT Art is the lie that allows us to see the truth.
Pablo Picasso.
I am not deterred by this.
Thanks for everyone s support.
If anyone saw anything on La Cienega on Friday, please let the local authorities know.
Black Honda Civic with a group of people in the car.A photo posted by Illma Gore (@illmagore) on May 2, 2016 at 11:40am PDTThis is the result of Trump s encouraging and perpetuating violence among his moronic followers at his rallies for months on end.
Violence is NEVER acceptable, but because their leader has told them that it is, Trump s followers are literally beating people who disagree with them in the streets.
This is what is somehow acceptable in America now.
Make America great again indeed.Featured image via screen capture from Ilma Gore Instagram