It s chaos all across the nation s ports of entry today, and indeed, the world over, as Trump s Muslim ban goes into effect.
The ban bars not just refugees from Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Yemen, Libya, Sudan, and Syria, but also legal permanent residents (green card holders).
A spokesperson for the Department of Homeland Security told Reuters simply: It will bar green card holders.
That s ridiculous.
That s just patently absurd.
That s just vile, sick and disgusting.
Trump is an asshole there s literally no other way to put it.But that s not all who will be refused entry to the U.S. Work visa holders, student visa holders, and more also find themselves in limbo today.
As The New York Times put it: President Trump s executive order on immigration quickly reverberated through the United States and across the globe on Saturday, slamming the border shut for an Iranian scientist headed to a lab in Boston, an Iraqi who had worked as an interpreter for the United States Army, and a Syrian refugee family headed to a new life in Ohio, among countless others.
A lot of these people were in the air, on their way here, when Trump signed that order and now they can t get in, but they can t go home either because they re refugees, or they re people who need to be here for one reason or another.Two Iraqis being held at New York s John F. Kennedy International Airport have already filed a lawsuit over this.
One supposedly has been released from detention, but there s no word yet if he s free to go on his way or is being put on a plane back to Iraq.The lawyers for these two say that detaining individuals with valid visas is illegal and it may well be.
However, court papers say that authorities from U.S. Customs and Border Protection wouldn t allow lawyers to meet with these two.
They were reportedly told to try and talk to Trump directly, and weren t even allowed to speak to U.S. Reps. Jerrold Nadler or Nydia Velasquez: When Mr. Darweesh s attorneys approached CBP requesting to speak with Mr. Darweesh, CBP indicated that they were not the ones to talk to about seeing their client.
When the attorneys asked, Who is the person to talk to?
the CBP agents responded, Mr. President.
Call Mr. Trump.
In Istanbul, security officers reportedly boarded a U.S.-bound plane to remove an Iranian woman and her family.
Iranian green card holders were dumbfounded as to the legal limbo they ve suddenly found themselves in.
They don t know how they re going to get to the country they now call home.Visas for students and visitors have been suspended indefinitely.
Refugees are being held where they are, or turned away at U.S. ports of entry.
Businesses who were counting on unusually talented people from these countries are angry.
Green card holders who actually live here are stuck, or being turned away.This is Trump s America.
Our unofficial slogan, the land of the free, is dead.Featured image by Olivier Douliery via Getty Images