Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore is finally facing the music for his refusal to follow the law.
The notoriously bigoted justice has been suspended from Alabama s Supreme Court for ethics violations.
HALLELUJAH!If you recall, earlier this year, Moore made national headlines when he ordered the state s judges to refuse to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
The Chief Justice s order said: Until further decision by the Alabama Supreme Court, the existing orders of the Alabama Supreme Court that Alabama probate judges have a ministerial duty not to issue any marriage license contrary to the Alabama Sanctity of Marriage Amendment or the Alabama Marriage Protection Act remain in full force and effect.
His actions were in clear violation of the Supreme Court of the United State s Obergefell v. Hodges decision which granted gay couples equal protection under the 14th Amendment and legalized marriage equality.
Moore, believing that he was more powerful than the SCOTUS decided that he didn t like their decision, so he wasn t going to allow his state to abide by it.
This decision has cost him his seat on the Alabama Supreme Court.
According to a the Montgomery Advertiser:The Judicial Inquiry Commission Friday charged Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore with violating ethical rules, over his attempt earlier this year to stop probate judges from issuing same-sex marriage licenses.
The six charges led to Moore s immediate suspension in the role.Unfortunately, Moore will still be paid during his suspension, but the charges could lead to him losing his seat on the bench permanently.
When the complaints were first levied against the bigot, he claimed that they were politically motivated and said he was just listening to the people of his state.
AL.com reached out to Moore on Friday and he said that he is ready to fight the LGBT agenda: The Judicial Inquiry Commission has no authority over the administrative orders of the chief justice of Alabama or the legal injunctions of the Alabama Supreme Court prohibiting probate judges from issuing same-sex marriage licenses.
The Judicial Inquiry Commission has chosen to listen to people like Ambrosia Starling, a professed transvestite and other gay, lesbian and bisexual individuals, as well as organizations that support their agenda.
Like most ignorant Republicans, Moore doesn t seem to comprehend the fact that he is not above the law.
The Supreme Court has more power than he does and they ruled on this issue already.
That means that when he refused to abide by their ruling, he was violating the law and the Constitution.
That s not an agenda, it s the reality of the laws of our land.
If Moore s personal beliefs prevented him from carrying out the duties of his position, he deserved to be removed and anything less would have been a violation of the rights of the citizens of Alabama.Featured image via Gary Tramontina/Getty Images