Democrats who are offering to work with Donald Trump should cease and desist right now because he has no interest in compromise.Throughout his campaign, Trump launched petty insults and divisive rhetoric.
In fact, that s all he did for a year and a half.
Now he all of a sudden claims that he wants unity.Well, that s bullshit and top Trump cheerleader Newt Gingrich admitted as much during an appearance with Trump chief propagandist Sean Hannity.After congratulating each other for successfully screwing over America, Gingrich insulted Republicans who refused to blindly support Trump.
The little, whiny, sniveling negative cowards who were Never Trumpers are beneath our paying attention to them.
Let them drift off into the ashbin of history while we go ahead and work with Donald Trump and with the House and Senate Republicans to create a dramatically new future.
Yeah, a future where oppression, hate, racism, and sexism reign.But Gingrich also blasted any semblance that Trump actually gives a damn about unity by promising Hannity that Democrats are going to be disappointed if they actually think Trump will be a reasonable man to work with.
Their technique will be to say Oh, be reasonable.
Don t push too hard.
Don t force the issue.
Find a compromise with Democrats.
Maybe he shouldn t name one of the justices who are conservative who s on his list.
Maybe he should find a nice moderate acceptable to the Democrats.
Down that road is a disaster.
And so we have to be aware that the danger is not that they re going to actively fight.
The danger is that they re going to opt for honeyed words of subversion that undermines the entire movement to make America great again.
Here s the video via YouTube:In other words, Trump and his Republican supporters intend to jam through whatever policies they want whether Americans like it or not.Frankly, Democrats should treat Donald Trump the same way Republicans treats President Obama over the last eight years.
Republicans should not get to sabotage a Democratic presidency and then expect Democrats to play ball when one of their own gets in the White House.Gingrich went on to say that Trump could offer an infrastructure program that could get Democratic support, which is funny considering President Obama offered the same kind of program and Republicans ruthlessly opposed it.
Being reasonable did not help Democrats in this election and it won t help them two and four years from now when new elections occur.
There needs to be consequences for the way Republicans have behaved the last eight years.
That means giving them more than a taste of their own medicine.Featured image via screencapture