Joyce Curnell s family has been destroyed by South Carolina law enforcement after she was forced to spend 27 hours of pure torture in a jail before being murdered by the state.
I say murdered because what she was subjected to is nothing short of an execution.Curnell had gone to the hospital for stomach pain that was diagnosed as gastroenteritis.
That, aside from the several other medical conditions she had, put her in a severe state of illness.
Somehow, it got out that she had an arrest warrant over unpaid court fees while she was in the hospital.
State officials dragged her off to a jail while she was in a severely fragile state of health.
While in the jail, she underwent the cruelest and most unusual punishment imaginable.After being locked in a cell, her health started to deteriorate rapidly.
She became so ill she couldn t eat, drink, or even call for help.
Jail officials asked for medical staff to help her, but their requests went ignored.
She couldn t even make it to the bathroom on her own.
The fact she was vomiting all night didn t phase medical officials, and she was given just a trash bag to vomit into as she lay suffering.27 hours later, Joyce Curnell was dead because of a combination of draconian policing and wanton cruelty.Joyce s death could have been prevented with a simple treatment of IV hydration.
Doctors recommended this as she was removed from the hospital, but jail medical staff ignored their recommendations.
Instead of being allowed to remain in the jail s medical facility, she was put in general housing and no treatment was given as her life slipped away.Joyce s rights were denied her under both the Bill of Rights, and South Carolina state law, and it resulted in her death.
Medical experts have said that her death was caused by dehydration from her inability to drink water and the denial of one of the simplest medical treatments that exist.Curnell s family is planning to sue the jail s medical contractor, Carolina Center for Occupational Health, for malpractice.
The filing included the statements of a local doctor that said Curnell s death was caused by dehydration due to a lack of treatment.Featured image via death and taxes