Former Pussycat Dolls singer, Kaya Jones, has received numerous death threats from liberals over her support for President Trump.
According to Jones, law enforcement authorities warned that numerous threats against her life over her scheduled appearance at the Free Speech Week event in Berkeley, CA, that she and singer Joy Villa were forced to cancel their part in the event.Only one week after the Free Speech event-goers were attacked by violent leftists and Antifa members, country music fans in Las Vegas found themselves being gunned down from a window on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Casino and Resort in Las Vegas.
Kaya Jones, who is also a Las Vegas resident was one of the entertainers who appeared on the stage at the Rt.
91 country music festival.
She posted this video of fans joining together to sing God Bless America only one hour before they were fired upon: God Bless America 1 hour before the shooting.Besties video @mmeyer50 wanted to share @johnrich @bigandrich @BigKennyTV @seanhannity pic.twitter.com/IYrpWF7j1Z KAYA (@KayaJones) October 3, 2017Yesterday, Kaya Jones took to Twitter to call out the sick people in the music industry who, much like Harvey Weinstein preyed on her group of young women.My truth.I wasn t in a girl group.
I was in a prostitution ring.Oh & we happened to sing & be famous.
While everyone who owned us made the $ KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017Twitter user Benghazi Stacy told Kaya that she needs to start calling out names of these predators:Kaya, it's way past time to start calling out the name of these predators.
This is the time to bring their darkness into the light #Benghazi Stacy (@Discoveringme40) October 13, 2017Jones replied:Yes.
I m working on it.
There s more then one name.
KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017Jones then went on to tell how bad the abuse really was.
Jones claimed it was bad enough that she walked away from her dreams, her bandmates and $13 million record deal.
:How bad was it?people ask-bad enough that I walked away from my dreams,bandmates&a 13 million dollar record deal.We knew we were going to#1 KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017Jones then called out the den mother who she suggests is responsible for the suicide death of her bandmember Simone Battle:I want the den mother from hell to confess why another 1 of her girl group girls committed suicide?Tell the public how you mentally broke us KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017Simone Battle killed herself on September 5, 2014.
She was loved and respected by many, including X-Factor s Simon Cowell, who got to know Simone after she was a finalist on his X-Factor show:Was the den mother who Jones was referring to Robin Antin, the creator of the Pussycat Dolls group?Watch Antin as she discusses bringing in new faces to the Pussycat Dolls group to Wendy Williams in 2009:Jones continued to rant about the abuse on Twitter, but refused to name names:To be apart of the team you must be a team player.Meaning sleep with whoever they say.If you dont they have nothing on you to leverage KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017She addressed how the vultures in the industry work to get the entertainers hooked on drugs.Yes I said leverage.
Meaning after they turn you out or get you hooked on drugs they use it against you.Correct.Victimizing the victim again KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017Kaya Jones explains why she never outed the people responsible for the horrific abuse:Why don t we report it?
Because we are all abused!
I personally have been warned if I tell I will you know end up dead or no more career KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017Well killing you or killing your soul what s the difference.
You do it for them.A teenagers go to jail for less.
Will Hollywood?
KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017I told press in Hollywood about my abuse & they did nothing.
I m still dealing with Vegas.
Talk about back to back.
Vegas&Hollywood man KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017She reminded the person or people who are responsible for the abuse, that she kept a journal and it s not over yet.I wonder if any other victims kept a journal like I did?
Oh yes I kept a journal with timelines .
KAYA (@KayaJones) October 13, 2017