Earlier today, it was revealed that the US Secret Service is investigating a Facebook post from Missouri state Sen. Maria Chappelle-Nadal, in which she stated: I hope Trump is assassinated!
She deleted her comments after she realized the sh*t-storm she had started by openly calling for the assassination of our president.Shortly after the news broke about the vile comments the Democrat MO state senator made, I Hope Trump Is Assassinated began to trend on Twitter, a social-media platform that has been criticized for shutting down conservative and libertarian voices, while allowing leftist hate speech to flourish.Conservative comedian Mark Dice tweeted to Twitter CEO @Jack to ask why he s allowing I Hope Trump Is Assassinated to trend on the social media platform.Way to go @Jack.
"I Hope Trump Is Assassinated" is trending on your company's platform.
Do you disavow or endorse?
Silence speaks Mark Dice (@MarkDice) August 17, 2017This Twitter user wants to know how conservative Twitter accounts get banned left and right but I Hope Trump Is Assassinated is allowed to trend on Twitter:"I Hope Trump Is Assassinated" Conservative twitter accounts get banned left and right, but this trends.
Disgusting liberal animals pic.twitter.com/BXGwtX6BtK Mike (@Fuctupmind) August 17, 2017As usual, Paul Joseph Watson of Infowars had the best response to the sickening trend:"I hope Trump is assassinated" is trending on Twitter.
But it's the right that has a problem with violence.
CNN told me.
Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) August 17, 2017Here are just a few examples of tweets from the left wishing our current president would be assassinated:I've never wished misfortune on anyone but with all my fuckin heart I hope trump is assassinated before he runs us into the ground Fuck him AnalogGirl (@NastyNatt_) January 24, 2017i hope trump is assassinated by a disabled latino muslim lesbian Mars (@MrMsMars) November 9, 2016I would never wish death upon anybody, but I hope Trump is assassinated.
(@cultagb) November 9, 2016Gay, Jewish conservative and former Breitbart writer, Milo Yiannopoulis woke up to find his Twitter account shut down for what Twitter considered to be hate speech for holding liberals accountable for their actions.For anyone who would like to give Twitter the benefit of the doubt, and may believe the people who monitor hate speech at Twitter haven t noticed the horrific trend by the left quite yet, check out this tweet by @CURRENTLYANGRY (You don t say?
), that s still up on Twitter from December 13, 2015:It's 9:18 AM and I want to kill Donald Trump.
DOOMBLADE (@CURRENTLYANGRY) December 13, 2015